Vol. 30   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1902  No. 10


CONTENTS.
National Council President’s Letter......
......Fannie Humphreys Gaffney 

Jennie June Croly......L. D. Blake 

Birthday and Surprise......Emily G. Cluff 

An Evening With Mrs. Croly......

Seventy-Seventh Anniversary......A Guest 

An Interesting Letter......S. L. Phillips 

Party at Hooper......Catharine Naisbitt 

In Memoriam......

R. S. Reports......

Utah Woman’s Press Club......L. D. Alder 

Editorial—Official Notice......

	The Seventh of March, 1902......

	Mrs. F. D. Richards Party......

	Two Social Gatherings......

	Brief Sketch of Sister P. C. Young......

Poetry—Hassan’s Proverb......James Buckham 

	Midwinter......Selected 

	Now are we the Sons of God......N. 

	Love’s Song......L.Taylor


HASSAN'S PROVERB.
King Hassan, well beloved, was wont to say,
When aught went wrong, or any labor failed:
"Tomorrow, friends, will be another day!"
And in that faith he slept, and so prevail'd.

Long live this proverb! While the world shall
	roll
Tomorrow fresh shall rise from out the night,
And new baptize the indomitable soul,
With courage for its never-ending fight.

No one, I say, is conquer'd till he yields,
And yield he need not while, like mist from
	glass,
God wipes the stain of life's old battlefields
From every morning that he brings to pass.

New day, new hope, new courage! Let this be,
O soul, thy cheerful creed. What's yesterday
With all its shars and wrack and grief to thee?
Forget it then—here lies the victor's way.
JAMES BUCKHAM.


MIDWINTER.
The white hath overspread the brown,
	Beneath the blue has crept the gray;
The frozen air is drifting round
	In eddies dashed with blinding spray.

Upon so wild a winter scene
	But thou and I have chanced to meet,
What words were fit to pass between
	A traveler rough and one so sweet?

Poor dying songster, full of woes,
	With stiffening pinions loosely furled,
That graspeth with thy thorny toes
	The wire that runs around the world!

Thou knowest not the grief and mirth
	With which the iron thread is fraught,
As one may grasp, but miss the worth
	Of some far-reaching line of thought.

Thou scannest not our human things,
	Thine eyelids close upon the world,
The snow sifts downward through thy wings,
	And upward to thy heart is whirled.

Beneath its inches cold and white
	Thy mate lies frozen near the hedge,
And nevermore in tuneful flight
	Shall cross the morning's crimson edge.

Recallest how, one dewy dawn,
	Ere yet the sun had kissed thy throat,
The music of thy heart had gone
	That won her shy, responsive note?

How fond ye whispered, breast to breast,
	That day within the covert green,
Or sought the brook with mosses drest,
	Your hot and dusty wings to preen.

Then, in the hush of coming night,
	Thou ledst her to the fragrant bed
Of apple blossoms, pink and white,
	With canopy of green o'erhead.


All summer long how true thy zest
To note her flight o’er many a rood,
To build with her the secret nest,
To mourn with her the stolen brood.

Now, thou art dying; dead is thine,
In some bright clime are all thy kin.
Let thy true life pass into mine,
And make it what it hath not been.

Bequeath to me thy lover’s heart,
And touch my spirit with thy fate,
That I from one may never part,
Nor even in death be separate.
SELECTED.


NATIONAL COUNCIL PRESIDENT'S
LETTER.
	The Christmas season is with us with all
its reminder of hope and promise. "Peace
on Earth, Good will to Man."
	How much is embodied in this saying!
It has been quoted for eighteen hundred
years, yet the world has not yet inter-
preted it! We have a faint perception that
it means something beyond accomplish-
ment and too Utopian to be even attempted.
We go on repeating it, and we admire it
as a sentiment, but are bewildered by the
difference between its meaning as our soul
interprets it, and the actual condition of
life and events about us. We hear the
clergy praying that our soldiers may be
blessed, and safely return to us successful
in their mission. They pray also that the
day may come when all war shall cease;
but we are not boldly persuaded by these
teachers—that War is a sin and to engage
in it wicked and against the simplest
principles of Christianity.
	"Thou Shalt Not Kill."
	"Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself."
	How far have we progressed in inter-
preting these commandments since Moses
wrote them on stone? Written on stone
have they also fallen for eighteen hundred
years on stony hearts, or been unseen or
unread?
	Let us not in our Christmas cheer forget
those outside chee[-]. Let us remember the
unfortunate victims of war everywhere,
but most especially the Boer women and
children herded in the Concentration
camps in South Africa. Let us not cease
to denounce war and all its horrible con-
sequences. Let us not only repeat "Peace
on Earth," but let us endeavor by our
every act to produce it.
	May all the blessings of the season be
with our members, and may we also be
ready to assume the responsibilities which
fall to each human being uplifted by bless-
ings, namely, to "pass on the blessings to
others.
FANNIE HUMPHREYS GAFFNRY.


Mrs. Kate Upton Clark, the well known
story writer and popular lecturer to club-
women, has prepared for the D R. and
D. A. R. chapters a lecture called “An
Obscure Heroine of the Revolution,” deal-
ing with the life of her great grandmother,
Bridget Munroe Maxwell, and taken from
forty or fifty of her great grandfather’s
letters.


JENNIE JUNE CROLY.
	The death of Mrs. Jennie June Croly
has been deeply felt by the clubs of New
York, and no doubt by club women
throughout the land. A special service
was held on Monday at the Waldorf Asto-
ria. It was under the auspices of Sorosis,
of which Mrs. Croly was the first active
president, holding office for two years, and
later occupying the chair for ten years in
succession. The Press Club, of which she
had been president for eight years, joined
in the celebration. The meeting was held
in the Astor gallery. Across the middle
of the lower side the platform was placed
at which the officers of Sorosis sat. The
banner of the club hung above the presi-
dent’s seat, and below it a portrait of Mrs.
Croly surrounded with roses. The seats
were placed in a curve fronting the plat-
form, and in the great crowd which filled
the room were representatives of almost
every club of women in the city. Mrs.
Denis K. Denison, president of Sorosis,
presided, and the exercises opened by the
singing of “The Lost Chord,” by Mrs.
Stutsman, who thus fulfilled a wish of
Mrs. Croly’s made just before her death.
Mrs Charlotte B. Wilbour, who succeeded
Mrs. Croly at the end of her first term as
president, delivered a thoughtful address
on her character and life work. She was
followed by Rev. Phoebe Hannaford, vice-
president of the Press Club, who told of
her faithful labors in founding and sustain-
ing the body. Other addresses were by
Mrs. Cornelius Zabriski, president of the
State Federation of Women’s Clubs, Mrs.
Hugh Reed Griffen, of London, and Mrs.
Cynthia Westover Alden, an officer of the
Press Club. Mrs. May Riley Smith read
an original poem, “Into the Silence,” and
Mme. Van Klemmer of the Press Club
sang.—Lillie Devereux Blake in the 
Woman’s Journal.


BIRTHDAY AND SURPRISE.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, invited her own family,
to her home, December 23, 1901, it being
her seventieth birthday, and while assem-
bled she was surprised by a party of half a
hundred, who came to honor and show their
love and appreciation of her,
	The officers of the Relief Society, Stake
and Provo Wards, the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary officers, with their friends, went
en masse and surprised their beloved
president.
	After hand shaking and congratulations
a program was carried out. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by President David John. Singing,
“O, my Father.” Then a little recess for
visiting, after which President David John
gave a very appropriate address, praising
the sisters for their diligence in performing
their duties and labors of love. In his
mind he could not look upon man in any
position without woman, his wife, being
associated with him. He could not picture
anything in heaven, aside from the Father


[Column 1]
on the throne, then a woman clothed in
immortality and the robes of purity and
dignity. Remarked that he and Sister
John had lived happily together for forty-
one years.
	Sister Marilla Daniels congratulated
Brother and Sister John. Sister John,
our president, on her seventieth birthday.
	She had known Sister John for many
years and was thankful for her acquaint-
ance, valued her as one of the dearest and
truest friends. Spoke of Brother Joseph,
the prophet, saying he had done much for
the progress of women, and it meant all
womankind, everywhere in the world.
Spoke of the women of the world, how they
sacrificed their own comfort for the benefit
of others. She remembered well the first
time she ever saw Brother Joseph, she was
so inspired with everything he said or did.
She often went to his home and associated
with his family. His mind was constantly
busy, he would come home to his family
and friends at intervals. He was greatly
harrassed by persecution. Spoke of the
great work he accomplished in so short a
time. She blessed the sisters and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Joanna Billings felt that Sister John
was one of the chosen ones. She congra-
tulated President John on having such a
noble companion, and that his wives had
reared up a good family, who would never
bring the blush of shame, to their faces. She,
too, was acquainted with the Prophet, and
looked upon him with admiration. He had
the most noble bearing of any man she had
ever seen. She had been lead along in this
Church, and had never doubted the author-
ty of each of his successors. She believed
the Relief Society would be perpetuated
and we would find plenty to do on the other
side. Blessed us all.
	Sister Percia Bunnell said every time she
met with the sisters she felt uplifted. “Do
we realize fully, my sisters, the privilege we
enjoy in meeting with sisters who have the
Spirit of the Lord upon them?” She had
been blessed and healed many times under
the administration of the sisters.
	Sister Emily Cluff appreciated the kind-
ness of Sister John during the time of the
crusade, and said many good things of her
kindness and nobility of character.
	Sister Johnson spoke of her acquaintance
with Sister John and Her appreciation of her
advice in her duty of presiding in the First
Ward, Provo.
	Sister Brown, of the Second Ward, said
Sister John had always been a wise counselor
to the Relief Society sisters. There were so
few living today who were acquainted, per-
sonally, with the Prophet. She felt to cherish
every word that pertained to him. Hoped
that we would all fill our positions in right-
eousness.
	Eliza Taylor, president of the Third Ward,
said she had been associated with the Sisters
John, Sister Mary and Sister Jane, had
worked with them both in the organizations,
and she knew them to love them. She had
once dreamed of seeing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and he told her that the principle of
plural marriage was verily true. She felt
that she would know him when she met him.
Her trials had made her a better woman.
“May we all claim the blessings that have
been promised us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Margaret Watson, Fourth Ward,
had known and loved Brother and Sister
John since 1863, and she felt to bless them
and all assembled.

[Column 2]
	Sister Donnie Mecham, president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., prayed the choicest blessings
of heaven upon President John and his
whole family.
	Sister Cornelia Clayton, of the Primary
Association, said she prayed that Sister John
would have a renewal of life, and be able to
fill this honorable position of “Mother of
Mothers” in Zion. She had always had a
great desire to meet the Prophet Joseph. As
children they used to sit around the fire and
hear their father and mother talk of the
Prophet Joseph.
	Sister Jane John felt that Sister Mary was
greatly blessed in being born on the
Prophet’s birthday. She had known Sister
Mary before she was married, and they had
lived together in union. They had helped
each other.
	Sisters Agnes Farrer and John passed
through the sacred places together. She
felt thankful to associate with her and sisters.
She remembered having her bonnet trimmed
with black to mourn for the Prophet, and it
was the cause of much testimony of Joseph
to their associates When she was a child
eight years old she had seen the holy dress
of this people, just as she found it later.
“May God bless, us all. Amen.”
	Sister Malena Wilkins had known Brother
and Sister John for forty-one years. Felt it
an honor to be at her seventieth birthday.
The Prophet Joseph had blessed her when
she was a child. She had shed many tears
when reading of the great trials endured by
the Prophet, he had no peace all his life.
	Sister Benjamin Cluff addressed President
John and the society, and appreciated the
privilege of being here. She knew the
Prophet Joseph and had known all of the
succeeding prophets. She felt that President
John and his wives had been greatly blessed
in rearing their families in the celestial order
of marriage. She had been a Relief Society
worker for many years, had been greatly
blessed in her labors. She had had many
advantages and for twenty years she had one
or more of her children in the mission field.
The Latter-day Saint women could take
more true happiness than any others.
Prayed the Lord to bless this Stake and all
that belonged to them.
	Sister Electa Bullock thought that Brother
and Sister John were the loveliest couple
she had ever met when she first came to
Provo, and she had not changed her opinion
yet. Spoke of the great power that was in
the Tabernacle meeting the day before. She
felt like shouting hallelujah! She remem-
bered the Prophet Joseph Smith, was nine
years old when he was martyred. She re-
membered her first sight of the Prophet,
thought this a most auspicious occasion.
“May Sister John live long to be a blessing
to the Relief Society as well as to her
family.
	Sister Knudsen spoke of the son (David
John, Jun.) of this worthy couple, who was
on a mission at the present time.
	Brother Joseph Keeler, Counselor to
President John, spoke of the duties of the
Relief Society. “We could do more good as
an organized society than we could un-
organized. While we are assisting our
neighbors we assist ourselves. We cannot
build ourselves up alone, we are dependent
upon others as well as upon the Lord. Sis-
ter John is just the same good looking
matron that she was thirty years ago.”
Wished her many happy rerurns of the day.
One great consolation was that we should
meet in the other world, this life was only a

[Column 3]
little niche cut out of Eternity. We should
love each other and our fellow men forever.
“May God grant us this blessing. Amen.”
	Sister Susa Y. Gates congratulated Sister
John. Spoke of President Young saying
that the life of this people should be pro-
longed, and that Sister John enjoyed the
distinction of being loved by all, not having
any enemies. President George Q. Cannon
said one thing he longed for was the love of
his brothers and sisters, and that had been
in a measure withheld from him. To love
all was one of the greatest gifts bestowed
upon any one. She knew of no one more
beloved by women than President John was.
She knew something of the hindrances that
women often met with, all the work of
women and men on this earth is to help
others. Help to lift the burdens of others and
ours will slip away. What would this
Church be without the organizations for
women? Said she was going out into the
world, and it was a great sorrow to her to
leave her mountain home. Asked the sisters
to always remember them while they were
away in the world. Each one of us can do
much good. Prayed for Sister John, that
she might live as long as life was sweet unto
her. The richness of the blessings of the
Lord would be ever poured out upon Brother
and Sister John and their children.
	Sister Olive Bean thought of the many
opportunities we have to know each other.
Realized the trial it was for Sister Gates to
leave us. In 1868, when the Smoot family
came to Provo, Brother and Sister John were
among her first acquaintances in Provo.
Blessed Brother and Sister John and their
family.
	Brother Harvey H. Cluff congratulated
Sister John on her seventieth birthday, sur-
rounded by this august assembly of women
and the few favored brethren who were
here. Spoke of his experience as a mission-
ary away from home, and had found much
consolation in fasting and prayer in all of his
great trials. The sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit called down upon us by fasting and
prayer was the sweetest that could be ex-
perienced.
	Sister Mary John tried to express her
appreciation of the true expressions of love
that had been given her today. She loved
her neighbors and every body. She was
very glad for all these blessings, and she was
too full of emotions to say more. She
blessed all present in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Holbrook spoke of what good, true
neighbors Brother and Sister John had been
to her when they first came to Provo sixteen
years ago. Brother Holbrook sent his re-
gards and regretted that he could not be
present.
	Sister Mary Boyden who had with the
assistance of the amiable daughters and sons
of the family managed this beautiful gather-
ing and arranged the program, invited the
guests into a sumptuous banquet, to which all
did ample justice, and partook of with
thankful hearts.
				EMILY C. CLUFF.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“Miss Dorothea Klumpke, the American
astronomer who has been connected with
the Paris observatory during the past ten
or twelve years, has married and moved to
England. Her husband, Dr. Isaac Roberts,
has charge of an observatory at Starfield in
Sussex, and long since won distinction
through his work in celestial photography.
Miss Klumpke was a native of San Fran-
cisco.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
.


For the EXPONENT.
"NOW ARE WE THE SONS OF GOD!”
How grand are the thoughts that this secret in-
	spires,
When sealed by the Spirit that comes from
	above;
How humbly we ask that its all-searching fires,
May burn up earth’s dross with unquenchable
	love.

Weak, sinful, forgetful, indifferent, dead,
To the truths of life’s being His wisdom supplies;
Man turns from the light. from the sun overhead,
To the caverns of darkness, tradition and lies!

Self-satisfied, passive, ’mid cobwebs of yore,
As woven by priests and polemical schools;
Assuming, presuming, asserting far more,
Than was ever revealed to Satanical tools!

But a ray from the Infinite entered at last,
That crevice unseen by the critics around;
Like a plant of the tropics, that ray spread so fast,
It illumined the age, as it flashed without sound.

Superstition, tradition, old error amazed,
Fought a desperate fight, for past prestige and
	power;
Persecution and martyrdom told a world crazed,
But the splendor of Truth waxed grander each
	hour.

Today in old lands it is winning its way,
For it conquers and saves as the Father decreed;
All darkness must flee in that fast coming day,
When the Gospel and kingdom shall triumph
	indeed.
N.


LOVE’S SONG.

	I saw a youth and maiden
		Upon a pleasant day,
	Their hearts responsive beating
		To raptures of the May.
	Young buds with fragrance waited
		To great them on their way.
	Sweet birdies carol d gladness
		From every bush and spray.
So happy were al they needs must sing;
"Oh welcome, oh welcome, lovely spring!
The earth is fresh and flowers gay,
And love is love in joyous May.”

	I saw two happy beings
		Whose lives were made complete, 
	For scenes of summer beauty,
		Of wreaths and roses sweet.
	Bright autumn’s golden harvest
		Of luscious fruits and grain,
	And winter’s hoary whiteness
		All breathed the soft refrain:
‘‘Oh, love, thou gift to mortals given,
Thou gift which flows from out of heaven,
Each gentle word, each tender thought,
By thy sweet spirit, love, is taught.”
	I saw two white robed angels
		Upon that far-off shore,
	Where earthly scenes had vanished
		And earthly trial is o'er;
	With crowns of glory resting
		Upon each peaceful brow,
	This holy anthem peeling— 
		(I hear it even now.)
‘‘Oh, love, thou love which e’er endureth!
The angels’ song the theme immureth;
Though life and time no more shall be,
Thou lasteth through eternity.”
				L. Taylor.


[Column 1]
AN EVENING WITH MRS. CROLY.
	I was privileged to be the guest of her-
self and her daughters, Vida and Alice—
both now married, and Alice now living in
England—in their home which Mrs. Croly
owned in Forty-first street. It was a
handsome home, and thither every Sunday
evening the cream of literary, artistic and
social New York would repair, crowding
the rooms, giving of their best, meeting
kindred souls in a manner that savored not
the slightest of Bohemianism; for with that
spirit Mrs. Croly had nothing to do. It
was there one certain Sunday I stood, a
unit in an admiring group about the late
Col. Robert Ingersoll, while he soared a bit
for us, teasing the most narrow-minded

[Column 2]
of the women who were harkening to this
secular Chrysostom because of his melli-
fluous speech while their consciences
gave them warning; and beside him his
youngest daughter, in memory the most
beautiful woman I ever saw, (now Mrs.
Browne) stately in white satin, her intel-
lectual face, glowing in pride of her father,
classic in outline beneath her rippling light
brown hair. There were the Kendals, too
Mr. Kendal grave and very English; Mrs.
Kendal portly and handsome. Moncure
D. Conway was rearing his head with
pride and saying, “I am a Virginian”—it
was all I caught, as I was being led away
to the group of young girls basking in the
sunniness of Ella Wheeler Wilcox and her
friend, Fannie Edgar Thomas, later dis-
tinguished for her Paris letters on musical
subjects, and Marshal P. Wilder told
stories, and Bronson Howard stood around
looking important, and Bijou Fernandez
revelled in her sweet prettiness, ard there
were a whole school of poets and a covey
of singing birds beside. And Mrs. Croly,
the simplest-mannered of all, moved about
making everyone happy without officious-
ness, introducing just the right people to
each other, and adding the word-link
needed to make a true conversation. She
was such a tiny woman, quite wrinkled,
less from age than from focussing her eyes
in her myopia, so that she read with her
head strained low over book or letter; and
her mail obligations every morning at
breakfast used to make me quail f[-]r her!
But she burrowed through it all in her
pur-blindness, because no one could
understand so readily as herself the needs
of this correspondent and that, nor did she
permit even her children to know which
among the number received her charity or
her counsel.
	Those days have passed with their
pageants of great personages, the applause
of women, the honor of her clubs, the
quietness of her own home, the journal-
istic activities that gave her precedence
among all living writing women. The
friction of her life was stimulating to her;
the disappointments and reverses must
have crushed her in this her seventy-third
year far more than in all that foreran it.
Dear “Jennie June” has attained the great
bourne, and posterity—for she will live
while women progress and remember to
be grateful—shall know her by her fruits.
And if these blessed voyagers ever do come
back to the terrene plane—and who will
say with certainty that they do not? one of
these days the women who love her of that
united Sorosis daughterhood of which Mrs.
Croly was the faithful mother, sitting in
council together, may listen with their
consciousness, rather than with their ears,
to the memorial roll call and hear her
gentle answer, “Adsum,”—“Here.”—Ex.


SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY.
	January 2, 1902, was the seventy-seventh
anniversary of the birth of Sister Joannah
Eggertsen and many of her friends gath-
ered at her comfortable and hospitable
home in the Second Ward, Provo, to show
their love and respect for her
	During the afternoon and evening an
entertaining program was carried out, con-
sisting of singing and speaking and a de-
licious lunch was served.
	Sister Eggertsen’s friends testified of her
goodness and their love and appreciation
of her many good qualities.


Her sons and daughters were present to
assist in doing honor to their aged and
beloved mother and bore testimony of the
true and faithful mother she had been.
	Miss Clara Cluff, our talented young
musician, who lately returned from Ger-
many, is a granddaughter of Sister Eggert-
sen. Others of the grand children who
were present assisted in entertaining the
guests with lovely songs and recitations
	Sister Eggertsen came with her husband
to Provo in an early day and passed
through those privations and sufferings
familiar to many who have had similar
experiences.
	After a well spent life Brother Eggertsen
passed away, about one year ago.
	Sister Eggertsen although having
reached such an advanced age is not at all
feeble, and surrounded as she is by chil-
dren and grandchildren who love and
reverence her, can still enjoy life and the
blessings which she so well deserves.
	Of Sister Eggertsen it can truly be said
“Her children rise up and call her blessed.”
	Bishop S. P. Eggertsen, her son, pre-
sided in his usual genial manner, and the
assembled guests, numbering about seventy
five, expressed themselves as having had
one of the most enjoyable times of their
lives.				A GUEST.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
My Dear Sister:
	Thinking you would be pleased to hear
of the progress of the Relief Society in the
St. Joseph Stake, I will give you a synop-
sis of our last conference, which convened
December 27, 1901 It was a very cold
and windy day, notwithstanding this we
had a good attendance, some traveling fif-
teen miles.
	There were present of the Priesthood,
President Andrew Kimball, Counselor
Wm. D. Johnson and Patriarch John Tay
lor.
	President Elizabeth Layton encouraged
the sisters to be diligent and faithful to
their duties. Spoke on silk culture, the
Woman’s Building and taking the
EXPONENT.
	Local presidents reported their branches
of the Relief Society in good condition,
and striving to do all that was required of 
them.
	Stake presidency and aids visit some
wards most every month.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by Stake Secretary Selena Phillips. We
have 1,051 bushels of wheat on hand. We
have disbursed from our Stake treasury
$134.90 for charitable purposes, aside from
the local ward disbursements.
	President Andrew Kimball addressed
the conference. The subjects spoken on
were retrenchment, storing of grain, tith-
ing, self-sustaining and proper employ-
ment for our children.
	President Wm. D. Johnson encouraged
home industries and economy; also bore
testimony that President Andrew Kimball
had preached a Gospel sermon today.
	Conference closed with a good spirit pre-
vailing.
	Please remember me kindly to our new
presidency, as I have known Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith ever since I can remem-
ber, and Sister Annie T. Hyde used to be
a Sunday School teacher in the Fourteenth
Ward when I attended Sunday School.
	SELENA L. PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]e
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal d[-]s-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
				Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1902.


OFFICIAL NOTICE. 
Beloved Sisters:
	In consideration of the seventeenth of 
March next, 1902, being the sixtieth
anniversary of the first organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17,
1842, the General Officers of the society
have thought it advisable to make the
day a special occasion of thanksgiving and
rejoicing. We therefore have decided to
make an official call on all presidents of
organizations in the society here and else-
where throughout the world to take the
initiative in this undertaking, calling to
their aid such help or committees as may
be deemed necessary in preparing for a
gathering to celebrate the day. An inter-
esting program suitable to such gatherings
might be arranged, bringing in the best
talent available in the respective society.
Any veterans in Relief Society work should
be remembered on such occasions as
these; brief historical sketches of some of
the great leaders in the movement, past
and present, might be an appropriate part
of the program if thought proper, and
the teachings and instructions of the 
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society are
always suggestive and profitable to read on
memorable occasions.
	We also think it advisable that the
young women be invited to take part and
assist in making the affair a success all
around. An invitation should be extended
to presiding officers and Bishops and breth-
ren, old and young, to participate in the
entertainment.
	The ten cent membership fee should
also be made a feature of the gathering, as
it is expected every one will subscribe this
small amount to the General Treasury.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			General President.
		ANNIE T. HYDE.
		IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
			Counselors,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, General Secretary.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, General Treasurer.


Mrs. Roosevelt has ordered a new supply
of table linen for the White House, includ-
ing tray cloths, napkins, doilies and other
smaller articles, and has had them em-
broidered by the women of Porte Rico
The work is beautifully done, and in future
Mrs. Roosevelt will order all her house-
hold linen from the same source.


[Column 1]
THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH, 1902.
	Most of our readers are doubtless aware
that the 17th of March next will be the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society, in Nauvoo, Ill., by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and each society
will assuredly feel the importance of cele-
brating the event in some characteristic
way, that all interested in this philan-
thropic organization may participate there-
in, making it a day of social enjoyment
with mutual benefit.
	The sisters will remember with pleasure
the success of what was termed the Relief
Society Jubilee ten years ago, in 1892,
after fifty years, and the satisfaction that
was felt and realized in having the day
made memorable all around the world, re-
calling the solemn prayers offered at high
noon on that auspicious occasion and how
gladly some joined with us, who have
now gone home to that better land.
	We can never meet together in such
gatherings without turning backward,
momentarily at least, and calling un the
faces of those we were accustomed to see,
and, as it were, hearing their voices en-
couraging and urging us onward in the
path of duty.
	We have no need to mention names, in-
deed there are too many to enumerate,
but we should try to emulate the noble
example of those whose names we feel
sure are enrolled upon the banner of honor
among the faithful and true in letters im-
perishable.
	Each society might make the seventeenth
of March a day never to be forgotten be-
cause of the solid enjoyment and goodwill
of those who are laboring incessantly for
the welfare of humanity.
	In every ward a delightful and instruc-
tive program of exercises might be pre-
pared, bringing out the best talent avail-
able, and with sufficient variety to relieve
the sameness that makes these affairs some-
times rather tiresome Music and tableaux
as well as reading papers and reciting.
Invite all who will to participate in the
joyful occasion of celebrating a day fraught
with so much that is uplifting and bene-
ficial to the women of the Church, and
through them to the world.
	Perhaps we sisters, though we appre-
ciate the Relief Society, hardly realize
what a blessing it has been to us and to
our people, morally, intellectually and
spiritually, besides the gentle charity it
has inspired and taught, as well as the
giving to the poor and lending to the Lord.
What sublime lessons of patience, endur-
ance and fortitude have been learned
through the practical exercise of the care
of the uufortunate, ministering to the dis-
tressed in body and mind, studying the
ways and means to alleviate suffering and
sorrow.
	It would be difficult to tell even the
temporal work done by these organizations,
and yet these things are so common among
our people that they are passed over light-
ly and are scarcely noticed. Away in
wards remote from the great centres of
trade and traffic these brave women, mem-
bers of the Relief Society, by dint of
economy and energy are saving grain by
the hundreds of bushels, housing it and
watching it from insects and other species
of destruction, are building halls and
furnishing them for their meetings and
other purposes, and in numberless ways
to the material wealth and upbuild-

[Column 2]
ing of the community, setting examples of
industry, and thrift that tend to make the
world better for all mankind.
	The celebration of the day mentioned
need not necessarily incur great expense,
but with many hands joined in mutual
helpfulness the affair may be so well
wrought out that greater happiness may be
felt than is many times the result of large
sums of money expended in eating and
drinking, feasting and dancing.
	The day has been set apart, too, for the
payment of memberships, and it is the
duty of the president of each society to see
that this is done. Ten cents for each mem-
ber is the amount expected for the current
expenses of the General Society, and if it
were paid there would be sufficient means
in the treasury for all needful purposes,
and no special calls would be necessary
when exigencies arise .that require immed-
ate action and for which funds must be
obtained.
	The work of the Relief Society is truly a
labor of love, and it has veritably been a
spiritual uplifting from the beginning, as
many thousands will and do testify. The
very spirit of the undertaking is education-
al in its best and broadest sense and reaches
into the heart of things, as all philanthropic
work necessarily does, for it touches
humanity in the most tender way, lifting
up the bowed down, comforting the sor-
rowing, succoring the needy and relieving
the burden of the oppressed.
	It is fitting to celebrate the day when
such institutions were organized and the
fact of doing so will spread the work of the
society and emphasize its helpfulness. By
all means try to bring out the young
women and persuade them to take part in
the exercises of the day, for it is essential
they should be initiated in the work of
which the Apostle spoke when he said,
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is to visit the widow and
the fatherless and keep yourself unspotted
from the world.”
	What is more blessed than to be able to
impart comfort and consolation in the hour
of affliction and distress, to give one’s self,
as it were, to blessing others In this
society those who perform these kindly
ministrations are really messengers of good
and must live near to the Lord, humble
and prayerful and diligent, and yet full of
the courage of their convictions, which is
always in itself an uplifting influence.
	Our sisters who preside in the several
localities in the respective wards will of
course understand they are free to make
such arrangements in celebrating as are
suited to the conditions and circumstances
of the ward and its surroundings. Should
sickness prevent meetings and gatherings
in any of the wards or settlements, then
the affair must necessarily be postponed
until the health is restored, or there is no
danger of serious consequences.


MRS F. D. RICHARDS' BIRTHDAY.
	Friday, January 31st, was the birthday
anniversary of Mrs. Franklin D. Richards,
of Ogden, wife of the late Apostle Rich-
ards, and for twenty-five years president of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, having been appointed to the position
by President Brigham Young, July 19,
1877, a short time previous to his death.
During all these years she has labored
zealously and faithfully in this good cause,
and never seemed weary in ministering to


others of whatever creed or faith, no mat-
ter how lowly or unfortunate.
	Such women deserve to be honored while
they live, and the good sisters of Ogden
and Weber County have literally construed
the saying, “Honor to whom honor is
due,” and have manifested their apprecia-
tion of the labors and good works of their
respected President and Mother in Israel
in a most commendable way, by giving
her a public reception in one of the
largest halls in the city and inviting as
many of her friends as the place will
accommodate, to unite with them on this
memorable day.
	The committee whose names appear on
the cards of invitation are Mrs. Harriet C.
Brown, Mrs Emily S. Shurtliff and Mrs.
Charlotte E Driver, of Ogden.
	Mrs. Richards birthday occurs on the
same day of the month as our dear departed
“Aunt Zina’s,” and it has been customary
for them in times past to celebrate together,
and naturally Mrs. Richards, who was for
thirteen years Mrs. Young’s first counselor,
will feel the loss of her sweet and gentle
presence on this occasion.
	We extend to the venerable lady our
heartfelt congratulations and prayers for
her usefulness in the Relief Society where
her labors have been so exemplary and so
valuable to the community in which she
resides and throughout the Stakes of Zion
where she has traveled in its interest, and
may our Father in heaven prolong her
days of activity until she has filled her
mission upon the earth, is the earnest wish
and desire of the writer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	A very happy social affair was given by
Mrs. Elizabeth J Stevenson to a number
of ladies, old friends of hers, who by invi-
tation met at her cosy home and spent the
afternoon in pleasant conversation, renew-
ing old time intimacies and contrasting the
present with the early days in the valley.
A sumptuous dinner was one of the fea-
tures of the visit, to which all did ample
justice. The tables were prettily decorated
with carnations and smilax, and the snowy
linen and elegant china made the variety
of viands still more tempting.
	At the head of the table was seated the
veteran president of the Relief Society,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, who pro-
bounced the blessing upon the food.
	Twenty-one guests were invited and
nineteen were present Of these Mrs.
Lucy B. Young and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
had recently returned from foreign mis-
sions, and naturally their experiences were
an interesting part of the conversation.
	Mrs. Stevenson was assisted in receiving
by her daughter, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, and
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Ezra T. Stevenson.
The young girls who helped serve were
Miss Gardner, Miss Clark and Miss Wil-
cox. The affair was very enjoyable and
was decidedly a social success. 

	On Wednesday, December 4, 1901, Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson gave a family dinner
party in honor of the recent marriage of
her son, Ezra T. to Miss Richards.
Twenty guests received invitations, of the
number were Bishop Robert T. Burton and
wife, Dr. Heber John Richards and wife,
Mr. Walter E. Wilcox and wife, Dr. C.
F. Wilcox and wife, Mr. James Stevenson
and wife and Mrs. Ezra T. Clark. All


are relatives of the family or connnected
by marriage.
	The gathering was a most enjoyable one
and will be remembered as such for years to
come by all who participated therein, as a
pleasing reminder of the hospitable hostess,
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who has been
accustomed to entertaining largely in the
lifetime of her distinguished husband,
Elder Edward Stevenson, a well known
character in Church history.


[Column 1]
BRIEF SKETCH OF SISTER P. C. YOUNG.
	Sister Phebe Clark Young, who recently
departed this life, was a women of strong
and independent character, a woman of
sound principle and well read, not only in
the scriptures but in history, ancient and
modern, of which she was very fond. Her
gifts of conversation and powers of ex-
pression were excellent, and she was clear
and sound in reasoning and in judgment.
Summing up her virtues and her endur-
ance of trials, hardship and suffering, one
recalls the poet’s words as expressing best
and in fervent words the thoughts we have
of this departed sister and mother in Israel:
“A noble type of good,
Heroic womanhood.”
	Sister Phebe was born September 15,
1830, at Hardway, England, and grew to
womanhood among the delightful scenes of
that beautiful country. She heard and be-
lieved the Gospel in her native land and
was baptized by Elder Wm. Eddington
and emigrated to Utah in 1851—the only
one of a family of nine who accepted the
Gospel. This young girl crossed the plains
with ox teams, although she walked her-
self all the way from Keokuk to Salt Lake
City.
	After arriving here she became ac-
quainted with Phineas H. Young, brother
of President Brigham Young and the fol-
lowing year they were united in marriage.
Mrs. Young was a devoted and exemplary
wife and raised a large family of children.
During the time her husband was Bishop
of the Second Ward in this city she en-
deared herself to all in his charge by her
large heartedness and universal courtesy
to all who came for counsel or assistance.
The first Sunday School in Farmer’s Ward
was organized in the home of Brother and
Sister Young, and the first Relief Society
in the Second Ward was organized by
Bishop P. H Young in his own home
while he presided in the ward. Under their
roof many were helped in sickness by
medical aid and the administrations of the
ordinances of the laying on of hands for
healing of the sick and afflicted. Such
helpfulness is not soon forgotten and there
are many to recall similar deeds of kind-
ness from Sister Young since the death of
her husband.
	She was the mother of nine children,
six of whom survive her, and she had great
success in training her children in the
spirit of the Gospel. She was a regular
attendant at meetings, and was for many
years treasurer of the Relief Society in the
Second Ward, to which office she was set
apart Sep. 3. 1891, and resigned her office
Feb. 10, 1898. She was set apart presi-
dent of the Second Ward Primary Associa-
tion in 1883, and continued in that position
until 1891. In whatever place or posi-
tion she faithfully fulfilled the duties per-
taining thereto.
	Sister Young was for eight years a

[Column 2]
member of the Utah Woman’s Press Club,
in which she took an active part. She
held the office of vice-president one year
and treasurer two years, was nearly always
a member of the program committee and
never failed to do whatever was expected
of her. She was familiar with the topics
of the times, kept herself well informed on
all general matters, and although over
seventy years of age at the time of her
death she had, up to that period, an excel-
lent memory and the use of all her mental
and bodily faculties. She contracted a
severe cold which brought on pneumonia
and though she was not thought danger-
ously ill, and friends were hopeful, yet the
end came unexpectedly and she passed
peacefully away on the morning of Decem-
ber 20, 1901.
"The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
And lighting the sleeping below;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint,
To the glory she dreameth now.”

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still?
For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
And harkening the angels’ psalm.”
	Sister Young's funeral was held in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
23, Bishop Heber Iverson presiding. The
casket was covered with beautiful flowers,
the gifts of loving relatives and friends,
and the music and singing by the ward
choir was sweet and harmonious. The
speakers were Counselor J. Galligher, of the
2nd ward, Mrs. E. B. Wells President Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, President of the
Seventies, and Bishop Iverson, all of whom
spoke in the highest praise of Sister Young
and exhorted her children and grand chil-
dren to follow her noble and righteous ex-
ample. “And so he giveth his beloved
sleep.”
E. B. W.


PARTY AT HOOPER.
	A sociable party was given here in
honor of President Belnap and Counselor
Margaret Manning by the members of the
Relief Society. A good quilt was given to
each of them, showing the esteem in which
they are held by the society they preside
over.
	The party was a surprise to them. It
was held on our regular meeting day, and
a nice program was rendered, also a nice
supper was prepared, which all enjoyed -
immensely. Such gatherings draw us
closer together.
	The following article was read by Cath- 
arine Naisbitt:

DUTIES AND BENEFITS OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.
	We, as members of the Relief Society,
feel it not only our duty to relieve and
assist the poor, but to comfort the dis-
tressed with kind words and acts to visit
them personally, help them in trouble, nurse
them in sickness. What a mission of love,
yet how little appreciated by some. Many
husbands instead of encouraging these
noble women in the performance of their
duties, find fault if they mention going to
their meetings, or to visit their district,
and probably would object if asked for a
horse or teamster, yet these sisters come to
meeting filled with the spirit of their mis-
sion, knowing they have done their duty
and I have no doubt if all could bear their


reports and the faithful testimonies borne
by these valiant sisters, they would have a
desire to attend our society meetings. It
refreshes our bodies as well as our spirits,
and it is better to wear out than to rust
out. Look at our noble sisters who have
devoted their whole life to the Relief
Society work, besides being mothers in
Israel. We might mention E. R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Emmeline B. Wells, Jane S. Richards, also
our beloved president, Adeline Belnap, and
her counselor, Margaret Manning. I think
it time we should show our appreciation of
their labors, not wait until they leave us
show it by rallying round them and attend-
ing meeting, assisting them as they have
assisted others in their time, never faltering
when called upon to perform a duty night
or day. Many have been cheered and
comforted by their presence. They may
wear themselves out in doing good, as
many other noble sisters are doing, but
they are laying up for themselves treasures
in heaven.
	God bless the founders and workers of
the Relief Society.
		Catharine Naisbitt, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

SARAH MELISSA JOHNSON.
	Sarah Melissa, wife of Patriarch Ben J. Johnson,
passed away October 4, 1901, at Mesa City,
Arizona, from sickness resulting in blood poison.
	She was born in Kirtland, Ohio, November 18,
1836. and was blest in the Temple there. Her
father, James S. Holman, and family with the
Prophet and many others, fled to Missouri in the
winter and spring of 1837-8, to experience the ter-
ror of that persecution and expulsion that fol-
lowed in the winter and spring of 18[;8-9]
	At Nauvoo she was baptized by the Prophet
Joseph, and after his martyrdom she, with her
parents, crossed the frozen Mississippi and started
in Feb. from Nauvoo with the first company.
Her father brought the first flock of sheep through
that came to Utah in 1847. going to Utah County
in 1857, where he was ordained the first Bishop of
Santaquin. There Sister Melissa was married to
B. F. Johnson, to whom she bore eleven children,
seven sons and four daughters, all surviving her,
and over sixty grand children.
	Aunt Melissa, as she was lovingly called by
kindred and friends and all who knew her, was a
true Latter-day Saint, a faithful wife, a loving
mother, devoted to her duties in Relief Society
work. She had held the office of president, also
of counselor, and was at the time of her death
second counselor in the Stake Relief Society of
the Maricopa Stake of Zion, having been called to
that position September 15th, 1898.
	Her influence was always felt for good in this
benevolent work. Her funeral was an ovation of
love mingled with sorrow and tears. Wreaths of
beautiful flowers, lovingly bestowed by grand-
children and friends, covered the beautiful white
casket in which she was laid to rest.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the officers of the Stake
Relief Society, do feel to tender our love and
sympathy to the memory of our beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we feel to humbly bow to the
divine will of our Heavenly Father, and acknowl-
edge His hand in all things.
That we realize that in Sister Johnson we have
lost a true, tried and faithful laborer in the work
of God.
	Resolved, That a copy of this Memorial be sent
to the Woman’s Exponent for publication, and
that one be placed on the Maricopa Stake Relief
Society records,
		A. E. Fuller, Sec.

		ELETHRA CALISTA EARL.
	In memory of Sister Elethra Calista Earl,
daughter of Edward and Emily Abbott Bunker,
who died June 30, 1901, was born November 9,
1859, at Ogden, Utah.
	She leaves a husband, several children and
numerous relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
She was a good mother and obedient to the cause

[Column 2]
of truth. She was chosen secretary to the Relief
Society, November 19, 1890, which position she
held until the time of her death.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth and as a faithful
secretary of the Relief Society, and that we desire
to emulate her earnest labors.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence
of His Holy Spirit rest upon them, that they may
realize that she has only gone before and is en-
joying the rest of the faithful, and will come forth
to a glorious immortality and eternal life. And,
be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication.
	Committee of the Relief Society, Annie E.
Cox, Harriet M. Earl, Mary Ellen Leavitt.

SARAH TIBBITTS.
	Sarah Tibbitts, who died recently in this city,
was born in Harrington Co., Cumberland, Eng-
land, July 6, 1814, and was therefore in the eigh-
ty-eighth year of her age at the time of her death.
	It was through a most miraculous cure of can-
cer in the breast by the administration of the
Mormon Elders that she received the Gospel and
joined the Church.
	She and her husband, John Tibbitts, were
among the few who first heard and investigated
the Gospel when it was first preached in that part
of England. They with their four children
emigrated to America in 1851 settling at New
Orleans for something over a year. After leaving
there the family went to Council Bluffs to join
the Mormon emigrants and crossed the plains in
ox teams, arriving in Salt Lake City in the fall of
1852, September 11. They settled in the Second
Ward, where they lived until the death of Brother
Tibbitts, which occurred January 1, 1881. They
had lived together more than fifty years.
	Sister Tibbitts was always a staunch adherent
to her principles. She was most highly respected
and beloved for her many acts of kindness and
charity, especially in sickness, many, many times
responding to calls by getting out of her bed to
ride miles in a lumber wagon. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society for many years. In fact
she gained the affectionate name of “Mother
Tibbitts,’’ till later in life she was called “grand-
ma” by everybody.
	She was the mother of seven children. One
son only, James L. Tibbitts. of this city, survives
her. She leaves twenty-one grandchildren,
thirty-eight great grandchildren and several great
great grandchildren.
	Her funeral was held in the Second Ward
meeting house in this city. Among the speakers
were Bishop Clawson, Isaac Brockbank, Brother
Wilson and others. The following beautiful
hymns, great favorites of hers, were sweetly
rendered by the choir: “There is sweet rest in
heaven” and “Farewell all earthly honors.”
		E. C. T. 
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.

Report of the conference of the Maricopa
Stake of Zion, held in the Relief Society
hall, December 26, 1901, Counselor Fran-
celle E. Robson presiding, sickness having
prevented our president, Mabel A. Hakes,
attending.
	Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
Reports were given from four out of six
wards. Those that were given stated that
all were alive to their duties as far as pos- 
sible. There had been and still was some
sickness. Quite an amount of wheat had
been put up. The Mesa Ward had held
their first Fair, and tithing had been paid
on all the proceeds. The Woman’s Build-
ing fund was spoken upon and a call was

[Column 2]
made for donations. All felt encouraged
to go ahead in this great work.
	The Stake had one of our beloved sisters
taken from us by death. On the 14th of
October the second counselor, Sister
Sarah Melissa Johnson. Sister Melissa J.
Hanson was called to fill the vacancy.
	There were many testimonies borne,
good encouragement given, all feeling that
it was one of the best conferences we had
ever had.
	Adjourned for three months.
			Anna E. Fuller, Sec.
ALPINE STAKE.
	The third quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
Lehi, October 25, 1901.
	Sisters Elizabeth Stevenson and Susan
Grant, of the General Board, were present,
also the Stake Presidency and full repre-
sentation of the various wards.
	Meeting opened at ten a.m., President
Rebecca Standring presiding. Singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother William Southwick. Singing,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Roll called,
minutes of the morning session of former
conference read and accepted.
	President Standring made some opening
remarks in her usual kind way and ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting the sisters
in conference.
	President Sarah Foutz represented the
Pleasant Grove ward; Linden was repre-
sented by President Martha Woolley;
Manila by Counselor Swenson; Alpine by
President Sarah Marsh; First Ward,
American Fork, President Orpha Robinson;
Second Ward by President Sarah S
Chipman; Third Ward by Counselor
Elizabeth Varney; Fourth Ward by Presi-
dent Alice T. Steele.
	These are new wards and the officers are
young in the management, but are full of
faith, and enthusiastic of their success they
have already commenced gathering grain
and building granaries. They are pro-
gressing finely and find their labors easy
and their burdens light when they have
the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Fort Relief Society.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi Ward
She was pleased that Sister Standring was
president of Alpine Stake, yet she is still
president of the Lehi Ward and she is the
right woman in the right place, and we are
very glad to sustain her.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the meet-
ing for a short time. Was well acquainted
with Sister Standring and congratulated
the sisters on having such a president in
our newly organized Stake. Had rejoiced
in the reports and in the testimonies of the
sisters. Said the teachers should be the
best of women, full of integrity and dis-
cernment, that they can bless those whom
they visit.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson was pleased
to meet the sisters. Remembered when
American Fork was only a small village
and now it was divided into four wards.
There was no greater calling than to be a
teacher, and urged the teachers to seek the
Spirit of the Lord in all their duties. This
is the kingdom of God, let us never say
a word against His Holy Priesthood. Spoke
of President Brigham Young, he always
sustained the Relief Society, also all the
other presidents. The sisters sometimes


[Column 1]
get discouraged, “but persevere in the good
work and the Lord will bless you.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by President
Stephen L. Chipman.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thonsand
flowers.” Prayer by Brother Larkins.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.”
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley could testi-
fy that we never meet but the Lord blesses
us. We are prone to evil and the sooner
we bring our minds to the mind and will
of the Lord, the greater will be our reward.
These organizations are by the power and
inspiration of the Lord, and it is necessary
that we are guided by the Lord in all our
actions, we must have charity and do good
to our enemies.
	Minutes of afternoon session of former
conference read and accepted.
	Sisier Elizabeth Stevenson said, “This
society is for the young mothers to learn
their duties and learn to raise their chil-
dren. This is a self-sacrificing society.
Our daughters should learn to be good
housekeepers in every respect. This is the
parent work of the sisters and we know
that the Lord is at the head. Humility is
the watchword, let us teach our sons and
daughters how to live and raise their chil-
dren in the fear of the Lord. They are
jewels sent from the home of our Father,
teach them the laws of life and health, and
remember that the responsibility falls on
you mothers.” Encouraged the sisters not
to neglect their Temple work and urged
them to take the EXPONENT and read it,
and so keep posted in the Relief Society
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
delighted with the meetings. The Relief
Society is appreciated by the presidents
and by the Bishops Thought that the
teachers should seek the Lord in prayer be-
fore going on their rounds. “He will
come to your rescue in the hour of need.’,
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs always felt
well to converse on the principles of the
Gospel, if we are doing all we can we are
blest of the Lord
	President A. J. Evans said: “Unless we
remember some of the good things that
have been said and reduce them to practice
in our lives we shall get little good. The
Lord said ‘Seek and ye shall find,’ and He
will reward openly all who seek him in
secret. The organization of the Church
has stood for seventy-one years. It stands
firm as adamant and will go on to triumph-
al success.
	Bishop Cutler was sure that the Relief
Society was in strict line of their duty.
The Bishops fully realize the importance of
these organizations and it is for us to con-
form to their requirements. We have much
to be thankful for. We will not only be ex-
alted ourselves but we can help those of
our friends who have passed away. We
should make our homes attractive to our
children and keep them from evil ways
and evil places.
	Brother Larkins read from Sec. 84,
Doctrine and Covenants, pertaining to the
two priesthoods bestowed upon our breth-
ren, and spoke a short time on sustaining
our husbands and brothers and. encourage
them to do their duty and God will bless
them on their missions or wherever they
may be called to labor.
	President Standring said her heart had

[Column 2]
rejoiced and her spirit had been fed this
day. Felt thankful for these mothers and
these daughters that have been given to
her to feed. Had proved the Lord for
many years, and asked him to bless the
sisters with the graces of the Gospel. The
teachers are saviors to those whom they
visit, they can do them much good.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.” Bene-
diction by President A. J. Evans.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

KANAB STAKE.
	Kanab Relief Society conference con-
vened in Kanab meeting house at 4:30 p.
m., September 7, 1901, First Counselor
Hannah E .Hoyt presiding.
	Present on the stand were Sister Eliza-
beth Stevenson, of the General Board;
Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Elizabeth
Pugh, of the Stake Relief Society; repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
Stake, except Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer by Sister Emily Lewis. Minutes
of June conference lead and accepted.
	President Margaret Baird, of Kanab
Relief Society, reported that society as im-
proving and members trying to do the
best they can. They were saving means
to build a society house.
	President Emma Brown, of Fredonia,
reported that society as doing a good work.
	Miss Abbie Cox gave a favorable report
of the Orderville Relief Society.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, addressed the sisters. She was
pleased to meet the sisters. Referred to
the importance of the Relief Society work.
It is very essential and was afraid we did
not appreciate it. Told of the difficulties
she had met in preparing for and making
her journey to visit us, and was sorry the
sisters were not all here to meet her.
Every virtuous woman should belong to the
society. Spoke of the necessity of being
chaste and pure and making right mar-
riages. There is a great mission for all
mothers. Help the daughters to become
good wives. All be missionaries, there is
ample work at home for missionaries. Keep
the confidence of your children, and teach
them to be pure and holy, prayerful and
modest. Be careful of your boys as well as
your girls. Paid a beautiful tribute to
the memory of Sister Zina D. H. Young,
said she would never die, her work will
keep her living in the memory of thous-
ands.
	Sister Harriet Brown was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Remembered the hall
and house where the first meeting of the
Saints was held in Nauvoo, had sat on the
Prophet’s knee. Paid a high tribute to
Sister Zina, her lovely disposition and
noble life. Felt deeply interested in the
welfare of the young people. Our chil-
dren are our first care and will be great
blessings if we train them properly. Had
passed through mobbings and trials, but
had always been blest and sustained. Felt
to bless all the sisters, her heart was full
of blessing for them. Prayed continually
for strength to shun evil. “Girls, never
say 'I don’t care,’ it is dangerous. We
should care enough to live right, and say
good things always.” Told us she was a
member of the General Board, but sup-
posed only a few of the sisters knew it.
	Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Sister Bethana Hart.
	Afternoon session opened by singing

[Column 3]
“Awake, ye Saints of God, awake.”
Prayer by President Thomas Chamber-
lain. Singing, “The Gospel standard high
is raised.”
	Present on the stand were Sister Steven-
son, of the General Board, Stake Relief
Society Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Eliza-
beth Pugh, President M. E. Pond, E. J.
Lewis, Emma G. Woolley, also Stake
President E. D. Woolley, President
Chamberlain and Brother J. W. Crosby, Jr.
	President Snow’s address that was given
at Saltair was read by Sister Maria Porter.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the sisters.
She was pleased to see so many more out
to meeting this evening. We should not
be discouraged when our present Prophet
encourages and blesses our work. Spoke
of the Woman’s Building, the encourage-
ment which President Snow had given it.
It is the best organization known for
women. Today there are many mothers,
they must not neglect their children; but
the best mothers are also the best members
of the Relief Society. Exhorted all to be
pure in thought and conversation. Ad-
monished mothers to teach their sons to
make home pleasant and comfortable for
their wives. Teach children to pay tith-
ing, prove that the Lord will open the
windows of heaven, etc. She had proved
Him in the past and could trust Him in the
future. “May God help us to fill every
department in our mission.”
	Stake President E. D. Woolley expressed
pleasure in listening to the remarks of
Sister Stevenson, was thankful for her
visit, as well as the visit of the brother
who is with us. There had been many
principles advanced that we can profit by.
Exhorted the sisters to sustain the Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.” Benediction by Brother J. W.
Crosby, Jr.
	Kanab Stake Relief Society meeting held
December 14, 1901. at the residence of
Elizabeth Pugh.
	Present were Stake President Artemesia
Seegmiller and Counselor Elizabeth Pugh,
and representatives from all the branches
excepting Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Opened by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Sister
Harriet Bowens.
	President Seegmiller said there was but
little time, some business to attend to and
to hear the report of the different branches.
	Sister C. Hoyt gave a report of the
Orderville society. Said they were trying
to do all they could for the cause and ad-
vancement of the Gospel, and were trying
to raise means to send to the Woman’s
Building, trying to raise their children to
be useful.
	Sister Emma Brown, of Fredonia, said:
“We are united and trying to do right. We
have work meetings every two weeks.”
	Sister M. E. Baird, of Kanab: “I believe
as a band of sisters we are striving to do
right. We have program meetings and
testimony meetings once a month, and
feel that the sisters are improving. We
expect to have lectures on motherhood
given by Sister Horne. We are striving to
get means to donate to the building in
Salt Lake.”
	Sister Buchanan, of Johnson, said she felt
that the sisters of Johnson were united. “I
believe that if we only make up our minds
to go to meeting we can go." Felt that


she would appreciate having meetings, as
they did not hold meetings now.
	Sister Seaman, from the Ranch, said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters. “We
do not have Relief Society meetings at the
Ranch, but attend Sunday meetings.”
She would be glad if a Society were organ-
ized, felt like it would be a good thing.
She felt well, and hoped we would remain
faithful.
	President Seegmiller said she had just
returned from visiting the branches in
Glendale and Mt. Carmel. Found the
sisters feeling well, those that attended felt
like raising their proportion of the fund.
	Sister Seegmiller said she would be
pleased to hear from the sisters but there
was not time, having our meeting after the
afternoon meeting. Spoke of the feast we
have had in conference. We want to ask
ourselves how far we are living the lives
of Latter day Saints, etc. Set examples
before our children that are worthy of
emulation. Have faith and be able to live
the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugh: “I feel and
realize that we are living in important
times, and if we live in compliance with
the commandments of the Lord we will
have the blessings of God.”
	Sister Emma Woolley: “Let us as
mothers pray for wisdom. There is going
to be a drawing in of the lines, that our
Father’s work may be done,” etc.
	Sister Laura Chamberlain spoke of the
need of counseling our children aright that
they may do right. Said we should teach
our girls the responsibility of mothers and
wives. Asked the blessing of God upon
us.
	Singing, Doxology. Meeting adjourned
for three months Benediction by Arte-
missia Potter.
	PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	By special invitation the December meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. I.
Cameron Brown, at which, by request, our
charming hostess favored the club with a
realistic and entertaining paper on the
“Life and Works of Frances Burney.”
	The names af Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings,
Mrs. Rachel Miller and Dr. Orielle Curtis
were presented for membership. Vote car-
ried. In behalf of the club a vote of
thanks was tendered Mrs. Brown, who has
upon different occasions entertained the
club so generously.
	At the January meeting, on motion of
C. C. R. Wells, the president appointed
Mesdames R. B. Pratt, E. R. Shipp and
L. D. Alder a committee to prepare suitable
resolutions, congratulating the U. W. P.
Club, and Mrs. I. Cameron Brown (one of
its members) who is at present the recipient
of Congressional honors. Another motion
was made that the same committee make
honorable mention of the 75th birthday of

[Column 2]
Zina D. H. Young, one of our members,
and honored president of the N. W. R. S.,
and that such resolutions be sent to the
ladies named, and be recorded in the
minutes. Carried.
	Mrs Antoinette Brown Kinney was re-
ceived as a member.
	A paper on the Single Tax was read by
Mrs. R. B. Pratt, which caused much
lively discussion.
	At the February meeting Mrs. Pratt
continued her paper on the same subject,
the discussion again becoming interesting,
and on motion it was continued to another
meeting. The subject of Parliamentary
Law was also continued.
	The president stated that she had re-
ceived a letter from the Countess Annie d’
Montaigu, asking for information concern-
ing the club, to publish in an Eastern
magazine. This shows that the club is
becoming well known. The name of
Margaret A. Caine appears at this meeting.
	At the March meeting Miss S. L. Monroe
was received as a member.
	By previous invitation the April meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. S. L.
Dickinson. Dr. Elliot was introduced as
the guest of the evening. She entertained
the club with interesting facts in the life
and labors of Miss Barton. Gave the
origin of the Red Cross. A letter was
read from Mrs. Brown, written in Washing-
ton.
	Miss Sybil Stewart was the guest at
the June meeting. Mrs. Emma J. Mc-
Vicker was received as a member.
	July 1, the June meeting was held at
the residence of the president, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp. It was a delightful summer
evening, and the occasion was one long to
be remembered. We were honored by the
presence, as visitors, of Mrs. Jennings,
president of the Utah Federation of
Women’s Clubs, of local fame, and the
noted suffrage speaker of national reputa-
tion, Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. Mrs.
McVicker spoke on her visit to Denver,
after which the visitors spoke interestingly
at some length.
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown gave a talk on
her recent sojourn in Washington. At the
earnest request of the club Miss Yates gave
a graphic and vivid account of her visit in
China.
	In response to the kindly invitation of
Mrs. Rachel Miller the July meeting was
held at her home, Mrs. Mary J. Lambert
and Mrs. Martha Miller were received as
members. A critic was appointed. This
had long been the desire of the club. Mrs.
McVicker was the first to hold this posi-
tion.
	An invitation from the Ladies’ Literary
Club was read to the U. W. P. C. mem-
bers to be present at their opening day
exercises, which would include a reception
to the retiring president.
	At the September meeting Dr. Curtis
gave an interesting account of her summer
vacation. Mrs. Mary J. Lambert, after
reading a poem on the beautiful Island of

[Column 3]
Hawaii, by request spoke in that musical
language.
	The annual meeting held in October was
devoted to character representations. The
officers for the ensuing year were also in-
stalled.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson,
Julia Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Crocheron were presented as candidates for
honorary membership, and received by
unanimous vote. A committee was
appointed to prepare a book of all the
officers and members of the club, past and
present.
	At the November meeting Miss Mae
Taylor was received as a member.
	At the December meeting Mrs. Emily
S. Richards was received as a member.
	The February meeting, 1897, was held
at the home of its president, Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox. The birthday of our honored
Mrs. E. B. Wells was fittingly observed.
Mrs. Wells gave a talk on her Eastern
trip, and the club presented her with a
small token of esteem and appreciation.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp entertained the club
for the March meeting at her home on
Center Street. Miss A. M. Beecher was
the guest of honor. A large number, of
guests and club members were present to
greet her. In response to the request of
the ladies Miss Beecher gave an informal
talk on topics of interest to all; Economics,
the influence of women in politics, and
the political status of the Eastern woman,
each was touched upon.
	At the June meeting a program in honor
of Queen Victoria’s 60th Jubilee was car-
ried out as follows: “Victoria as a girl,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox; Victoria as a wife, Dr.
R. B. Pratt; Victoria as a mother, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze; Victoria as a queen, Mrs. E
B. Wells; Victoria’s Jubilee poem, Mrs.
L. D. Alder. Mrs. Wells presented an
invitation from the National Press Club,
asking the U. W. P. C. to send a delegate
to the meeting to be held at Nashville,
October 25.
	The July program of 1897 was in com-
memoration of the Utah pioneers. The
first paper, “The Pioneers,” was by Miss
Laura Hyde, “The Jubilee” was by Mrs.
Fox. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed
special correspondent for the Review, by
request of its editor, Mrs. Bradley.
		(Continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1902 
No. 11


CONTENTS.
Gleanings and Thoughts on Woman’s Work
	...............................................Ida Haag	81
Letter From Parowan.........E. Crane Watson	81
R. S. Reports................................................	82
The Imperial Palace in Berlin.....L. D Alder	83
A Pleasant Afternoon Party...............A. I. E.	86
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..A. Wardrop	86
Alpine Stake..................Emma Featherstone	86
In Memoriam................................................	87
How I Embraced the Gospel...........M. E. K.	87
EDITORIAL—Happenings Here and There	84
	Report of the National Woman’s Relief
		Society..........................................	85
POETRY—Snowflakes..........Ellis R. Shipp	81
	The Wood Buttercup...............Selected	83


SNOWFLAKES.
Oh ! the feathery flakes are coming down,
Over the mountain, valley and town;
O’er the lowly, cot and the palace proud, 
Enwraping nature in ermine shroud.
In the semblance of death the earth now sleeps,
While the sky these frozen teardrops weeps.

But we used to say, in the olden day,
That “Grandmother Goose” had come that way,
And was emptying' out her feather beds
To cover the drooping lily heads,
To keep our buttercups from getting cold,
From the blighting frosts of the storm king bold.

When out in the yard, with upturned face,
Watching them flutter in waving grace,
Letting them fall on our cheeks, in our eyes,
Enjoying the half expected surprise,
Till a tender voice, with note of alarm,
Would bid us within, to the fire warm.

Then, pressing our faces against the pane—
Gazing above to that vast domain,
Where myriad specks could be seen on high,
Most wonderful then to a childish eye,
So silently, slowly falling below— 
We longed of this marvel more to know.

So marvelous ! Indeed it seemed to be
A deep, unfathomed mystery.
Those fairy tales could not wholly deceive, 
Our simple faith, made us rather believe 
That the God of Heaven, who-lived above,
Had sent these messages with His love.
Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
GLEANINGS AND THOUGHTS ON
WOMAN'S WORK.
	It is claimed by some that the line
drawn between man and woman was de-
clared by Father Adam. I can see noth-
ing to base such an assertion upon, but
nevertheless the line is there, and I firmly
believe that woman, not man, is mostly
to blame for this; furthermore I believe that
it will take all the united energies of intel-
ligent womanhood, with a great amount of
vim and patience, to undo this great evil.
Hence so many papers and discussions on
the “Woman Question.”
	I came to the conclusion that a few ideas
and gleanings from one in the more com-
mon walks of life might not be entirely
uninteresting. One writer says there is al-
ways more to be said than has been on the
other side of almost any question. It is
said also that “Individuals think, but mil-
lions drift.” I sometimes think that there
are many of us, while we may feel as
though we were doing all in our power for

[Column 2]
the advancement of our sex, that fire really
drifting along with the great sea of human-
ity, seemingly blind in the great rush and
confusion around them to the great good
that they actually might accomplish.
	The question sometimes arises in my
mind. “Are we not often scattering our
energies in too many different channels,
not concentrating them enough on one or
two worthy objects ?” Just so are we not
often found reading much more than we
really think, thereby feeding our own
minds continually on other people’s
thought, hence losing our own originality
and, I might add, diseasing the mind ?
It is said that the keynote of the present
age is discontent. Allowing this to be
true, (and I believe it to be true) it is all
right as long as it carries us along in the
right direction, thus making it wholesome.
	I believe the Consumer’s League, so
ardently espoused by our honored guest of
last month, opens up the field for a noble
work; but, again, have we not here in our
midst that which leads to the “sweat
box" evil?
	Not long since a man about sixty years
of age was allowed to take in holy wedlock
for a wife a young girl with no very great
mental power. Pray tell me what would
that lead to ?
	Many tired mothers say, “I never read,
I cannot, I never have time. I have all I
can do to bring my children up properly.’’
	Do they ever think that in order to do
their duty they should seek bodily rest,
with a little mental labor, a medicine that
will bring, with the rest, smiles and sun-
shine for the home? We know that the
elements of home have a great deal to do
with the future lives of the children.
Woman, especially the mother, is the cen-
ter attraction. Again it is said since the
dawn of history the center and source of
life has been the home. All civilization
and reform, all progress has had its origin
in the home.
	Now let us go back. Mrs. Jones men-
tioned one very great evil, and that was
the scattering of disease germs from these,
sweat boxes in the large cities. This to
me seemed very reasonable and is indeed
a very great reason why we should lend
our assistance in this direction. But again
I ask, have we not dangers here at the
present moment equally as great ? From
observation, or gleaning, if you like, I
have thought if we had some method of
finding out places where there were con-
tagious diseases in the houses, there would
be far less sickness and death.
	There is much more that I might men-
tion casually leading to this great evil, but
I fear I may become wearisome.
	May we so unite our energies and self-
control that the glory of our work may
shine forth to all womankind wherever
they are and in whatever station of life;
that warmth and enthusiasm may enter
their hearts for good, and that we may
continue in a mutual advancement until
our lives may be only like a pleasant
dream.
	There is one thing more in particular

[Column 3]
that I would like to make mention of, and
that is the canker that is eating gradually
all the life-sacredness out of the marriage
vows. The many desolate homes and the
many newspaper reports of divorce cases
verify this. To me the remedy seems to
be the higher education of woman.
	It is a happy faculty
		Of woman far and wide, 
	To turn a cot or palace
		Into something else beside;
	Where brothers, sons and husbands
		With willing footsteps come, 
	A place of rest where love abounds,
		A perfect kingdom –– home. 
	Words cannot express the earnestness I
feel on this subject, but we look ahead for
a glorious future; this is our hope and
compensation for the past.
A glory shines across the coming years,
		The glory of a race grown great and free,
	'Twas seen by poets, sages, saints and seers,
		Whose vision, glimpsed the dawn that was,
			to be.
	A shining shore is by the Future Sea,
		Whereon each man shall stand among his
			peers
	As equal and to none shall bend the knee,
		Awake, my soul, shake off your doubts and
			fears.
	Behold the hosts of darkness fade and flee,
		Before the magic of the morning's face
	And hear the sweet and wondrous melody,
		That floats to us from far-off golden days. 
	It is the choral song of liberty,
		It is the anthem of the coming race.
IDA HAAG.


LETTER FROM PAROWAN.
Parowan, March 5, 1902.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	It is some time since we noticed our soci-
ety represented in your paper, however we
have continued to “drift with the tide.”
	Since the new year death has made inroads
into our ranks by taking four of our Relief
Society band. Sister Elizabeth Gurr was
the first, a noble spirit and earnest worker;
then Sister Mary J. Clark, who, although
an invalid, kept herself informed on
Relief Society work and was ever fore-
most with her donations; then followed
Sisters Sarah Dalton and Sarah Mitchell
Curtis, all of whom were fitting subjects
for transition to a purer and holier sphere.
	Yesterday, March 6, was our regular
monthly fast meeting, and though the
number was few, on account of much sick-
ness, an inspiring influence was enjoyed.
Sisters Annie Bayliss and E. Crane Wat-
son, of the Stake board, were present and
urged the sisters to awaken to the full duty
of Relief Society requirements, and to take
the EXPONENT, that they might become
better informed and more completely en-
thused with the wonderful organization.
	A committee was appointed for March
17th celebration, and a plan was formu-
lated to spend a few hours socially with
Sister Mary Ann Rasmussen, who is pre-
paring to leave for the Big Horn Basin.
The subscribers of the EXPONENT ap-
preciate its contents and are eager for its
beautiful teaching.
E. CRANE WATSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE
Minutes of the 27th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
January 25, 1902, President Sarah Pope
presiding.
Opened by singing "Redeemer or Israel."
Prayer by Brother Nelson Merkly. Sing-
ing, "O Jesus, the Giver." Roll called,
showing four Stake and six ward officers
present. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
Counselor A. K. Bartlett said there were
but few present, but the Lord would bless
us in meeting together. It is just as nec-
essary for mothers to understand the prin-
ciples of the Gospel as it is for the mission-
aries who go to the nations of the earth.
The Relief Society should hold on to their
grain and not use it.
Brother George Merkly said he felt un-
able to say anything beneficial to any one
without the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord.
He always had a warm feeling toward the
Relief Society, he received much aid from
them while on his mission. We should al-
ways keep the commandments of the Lord
so we would have a claim on His blessings.
The Relief Society of the Vernal Ward,
Mill Ward, Naples Ward and Glen Ward
were all reported by their presidents as
doing a good work.
Morning session closed by singing, "Our
God we raise to Thee." Benediction by
Brother Thomas Bingham.
Afternoon session opened by singing,
"Now let us rejoice." Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, "How firm a
foundation."
Brother Don B. Cotton thought the pre-
siding officers should not be discouraged on
account of no more being present, for they
had done their duty and would receive a
blessing.
Counselor Mary Hall thought we should
study the lives of our leading sisters and
emulate their example.
Sister C. A. Stringham read some verses
composed by Sister Esther Bennion.
President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks, the financial and statistical report
was read, the General and local officers sus-
tained and the meeting closed by singing,
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake convened March 1, 1902, at
10 a. m., in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting commenced with the usual
opening exercises, after which the roll was
called, the minutes read and approved and
the statistical and financial report read and
accepted.
President M. I. Horne said all are ex-
pected to pay their ten cent membership.
If any are not able to pay the society will
make up the deficiency.
The president of the 28th ward, Emma
Ridd, said she had been a teacher, but now
would do all she could in her new position
as president.
One of the counselors in the 25th ward
said they had held one meeting,   and felt 
if they were humble they would be
blest of the Lord.
Sarah R. Standring said their organiza-
tion was made last Fast day. They had
held one meeting.

[Column 2]
President S. J. McKean said they had
been organized three years.
Ann Sock, of the 27th ward, organized
last February, said there were nineteen
teachers, which was all that were present.
The 30th ward was reported by the presi-
dent, Sister Bowers. They have four
branches, their workers, are trying to do all
that is required of them.
President Horne related her experience
in trusting in the Lord in case of sickness.
She thought we could spend our time
profitably in sewing and working in our
societies.
Sister Margaret C. Hull said the Relief
Society is like a band of missionaries in
each ward. "We are not sent out into the
world, but we are sent to teach, comfort and
sustain those we work among."
The meeting adjourned until two o'clock.
Singing, "Lord dismiss us." Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
Afternoon session opened at 2 o'clock
with President Horne presiding. The
Temple quartette sang "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
The quartette sang another hymn and the
minutes were read and accepted.
Sister C. C. Cannon said we should re-
member we are working for the kingdom
of God, all that we have belongs to Him.
President B. W. Smith felt Relief Society
work was one of our first duties. Wished
we would cease to complain, be kind and
love one another. Liked to see us happy,
live holy lives and put away frivolity.
Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of the re-
sponsibility of Relief Society teachers and
of the principle of faith and the work that
can be accomplished through it.
Sister M. W. Wilcox felt we should live
so that we would always have the spirit of
the Lord to dictate us in all that we do.
Sister M. C. Hull sang a solo.
Sister M. P. Young thought we were
greatly favored in being organized into this
society. Spoke of the greatness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
Sister E. Webb said "The Relief Society
is doing a great work. Let us set examples
that will bring forth fruit."
Julia S. Woolley spoke a few words on
records and reports, also on increasing our
faith by our works.
Sister Elizabeth Paul felt she was blessed
and privileged to be a member of the
Church
Sister Lambert bore a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
President Horne counseled the sisters to
buy their wheat. She felt we should be
willing to say to the Lord, "Thy will, not
mine, be done."
The meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Barton.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
WAYNE STAKE.
The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Thurber Relief Society
hall, December 5, 1901, Stake President
W. E. Robison, Counselor H. M. Hanson,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn, Patriarch
George Coleman and other brethren and
sisters being present. President Jane S.
Coleman presided.
Meeting opened by singing, "The
happy day has rolled on." Prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. H. Blackburn.
Singing, "Joy to the world." Minutes of
last conference read and approved.
President J. S. Coleman said she felt
truly blest for the spirit present this morn-

[Column 3]
ing. Prayed our minds might ever be en-
lightened, and when we know our duty,
do it, lest we come under condemnation.
Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said we
should use our influence for the further-
ance of the Gospel. Mothers should be
very careful in teaching their children cor-
rect principles.
Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased
with the privilege of meeting in conference.
We should teach our children reverence for
the Priesthood. Great results could be
accomplished through calling our children
together and and reading to them, and planting
the principles of the Gospel within them in
their youth.
President W. E. Robison said he was
interested in Relief Society work, and when
he reflected upon the fact that the Prophet
Joseph organized the sisters in Relief
Society, which was so uncommon in those
days, and looked at what had been accom-
plished through this society since, it was
truly great. He appreciated the labors of
the sisters and felt they were a great help
in the wards, the labors of the brethren
would not be perfect without the sisters.
President Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber
Relief Society, reported that branch in
good condition. The sisters were ever on
hand to assist in the ward and she felt
well in her labors.
President Harriet Stapley said the Loa
Relief Society was in good running order.
Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
Counselor L. C. Ostbery in good condition.
Counselor Ellen Heaton reported the
Torrey Relief Society doing well and the
sisters were united.
The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by Counselor Susan Turner as prospering,
and the sisters were desirous of doing their
part.
Morning session closed by singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Benediction by
Patriarch George Coleman.
Afternoon session commenced with the
usual opening exercises, after which the
General Board and Stake officers were sus-
tained by the conference.
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke. He
said he wished to bear testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living
God and that President Joseph F. Smith
was also a prophet of God. Felt that
mothers should cultivate faith in the child
and should lay hold of every blessing.
Sister Leah Blackburn was pleased to be
present at conference. Said it is not what
we hear but what we practice that is bene-
ficial. We should be what we profess to
be, we shall be judged by our works.
President H. M. Hansen felt to add
a word of encouragement. He always
enjoyed meeting with the sisters. We
had heard many good instructions at this
conference that would be profitable to carry
out in our lives. Felt to encourage the
sisters of this Stake of Zion in the work of
sericulture.
President Jane S. Coleman bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work.
Patriarch George Coleman felt thankful
for the privilege of being present at con-
ference. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, knew it was of God. Asked
the blessing of the Lord upon the Relief
Society.
Singing, "Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Sister Bathsheba Grundy.
ANNIE COLEMAN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOOD BUTTERCUP
We marvel why thou raiseth up
Thy tiny golden cup
In this sequestered place,
Where dense boughs interlace,
Thou that dos’t love the light,
Pure, warm and bright.
Did a malign, relentless power,
In some ill-omened hour,
Thus have thee woodward sent
In cruel banishment—
Thou that dost bravely bloom,
Despite the gloom?

Should an adverse, unfriendly fate
Upon our pathway wait,
May we not bow the head.
But lift it high instead
In patient bravery,
Remembering thee!
	SELECTED.


[Column 1]
THE IMPERIAL PALACE IN BERLIN
AND OTHER POINTS OF INTEREST.
	From the outside this would not strike
the beholder as being a grand palace. But
once through the receiving room and
having ascended the inclined brick walk
used instead of stairs, one is ushered into a
large room, with floor polished like glass,
where felt slippers of uncertain size are
handed to everyone that the floor may not be
marred. Then begins the tour of what
proves to be a palace of magnificence, and
all are anxious to see what the building
contains.
	The r oms are gorgeous indeed, with
most costly pictures on the walls, of all the
Emperors of Germany, with those of many
of the other nations. A lovely one of
Queen Victoria, standing in court costume,
is noticeable, as also one of the Queen of
Sweden and many others.
	A costly palace indeed is this! Gold
doors, gold trimmings, gold ornaments,
gold on the walls, gold on the ceiling and
gold everywhere.
	There are many presents to the Emperor
of untold value, both gold and silver, rich-
ly upholstered chairs with gold frames, in
fact, gold and silver is used as through it
could be picked up in the streets.
	One room known as the White Room is
white and gold with crystal chandeliers of
unknown value suspended from the ceiling,
which scintillate, reflecting the rays of
light that enter through the deep windows,
whose tops and sides are wrought in gold
of exquisite workmanship. One can
scarcely imagine such magnificence, much
less describe it. This room is of large
dimensions, with highly polished floor
whereon one scarce can stand; its use we
can scarcely understand.
	The Hall of the Knights is another
of splendor. This one contains a chande-
lier of crystal also, whose value must be
fabulous. It is covered with a thin gauze,
it is so precious, which is only removed on
state occasions.
	The shields of the knights in solid gold
hang here, while statuary of knights in ar-
mor and other wonderful decorations are in
wide panels just below the ceiling all
around the room, whose doors are also
ornamented gold, which almost dazzle the
sight. These are some of the warriors of
old who are honored and remembered in
German history.
THE LUTHER ROOM.
	The Luther room is here, where sat in
solemn conclave the Diet of Worms, who

[Column 2]
summoned the great reformer before its
august body, demanding of him to recant
his heresies.
	Would that these walls could repeat the
words used at that world-famed trial, the
features of those taking part be reproduced,
and that the voice of Luther could be
heard when he said, “What I have said, I
have said, and cannot recant, so help me
God!” The solemnity of the occasion,
with the hush that followed that speech
seems here still.
	This perhaps was a throne room at one
time, as the throne with its crimson and
gold canopy is still here.
	Then the present throne room! Imagine
the costly canopy overhead, the gold chair
on which the Emperor sits on an elevated
gold step, surrounded by a gold bar a
couple of feet from it that no one may
come nearer to His Imperial majesty while
he sits there; then think of all the costly
magnificence, all the pomp and splendor
that map and gold can make, then you
have a faint idea of the resplendent glory
of this room.
	Great scenes have been enacted here
when an Emperor has been crowned, but
now it is silent; none are clamoring for
place or position; no heart-aches from dis-
appointment; no heart-burnings for things
unattainable, but peace and silence reign.
The bustle of the great city seems far
away, and only comes as faint murmurs.
THE ART GALLERY.
	The art gallery is two hundred feet long,
and, oh, the priceless paintings to be seen
here! Two are the crowning scenes, one
that of the old Emperor, the other of the
present Kaiser. Both are of immense
dimensions and are gorgeous in the ex-
treme.
	Of course the central figure is that of the
Kaiser, who solemnly registers his vow
and accepts the crown. All the men of
state are near, the stone features of Bismark
in bold prominence with delegations im-
portant and stately, making a most impos-
ing spectacle. The Emperor with a few
attendants sits on the balcony opposite.
	What a gathering! It must have been
a solemn time indeed. The artist has done
his shading and coloring well. It is said
that it took him five years to paint each
one of these.
	Here are the pictures of Germany’s de-
parted great ones, Emperors, princes, with
the Empress, ladies, men of state, as also
those who were celebrated in the known
world. Here they are true to life, in gold
frames of elaborate design and width. Of
all the palaces before visited this is the
most gorgeous. One could never think of
this as a home. The palace idea is first
and foremost and always present. Such
magnificence is really burdensome and
oppressive.
	There is a large hall, to be known as the
White Hall, in course of finishing. No
doubt it will be very imposing. It will be
quite an addition to the palace, and will be
used as the amusement hall and a place of
recreation, and apparently will be on a
scale of appropriate grandeur to the re-
mainder of the palace. The chapel hall is
quite large and nicely arranged. This is
where the Royal family worship. Its walls
are ornamented by scenes in the life of
Christ, and the words, “I am the resurrec-
tion and the life," are prominent. The
humble Nazarine! Think of His station

[Column 3]
in life, poor among the very poor, without
a place oft-times to lafy His hea[---] and
suffering and of grie, the tea rejected
associate of publicans and sinners, minious
by His own, suffering an igno in that
death, a companion with thieves by
dreadful hour, yet now acknowledged God.
the civilized world as the Son of and
Here He is represented in beautiful
striking attire, that he might look, like the
grand ones who claim to worship Him.
Yet if He were to visit them today, as He
was when on earth, again would He be re-
jected, royalty could never mingle with
those in the humble walks of life. It
seems almost like a mockery. Though He
is also the Savior of the rich, yet would
they never own Him while on earth, nor
would they now.
	A sigh escapes the lips; how untoward
is the world, and how deluded by the touch
of gold. The poor were His companions,
the kings His persecutors. Looking at the
beautiful paintings of His death and suffer-
ings, on which the titled rest their eyes,
one is led to exclaim, “Who will stand the
day of His coming?”
	We leave the place with a sense of relief,
and thinking of the other palaces belonging
to the Emperor, with all his responsi-
bilities, and remembering the old adage that
“uneasy lies the head that wears a crown,”
no thought of envy is in the heart.
	Opposite the main entrance of the palace
is an imposing monument of Emperor
William I. Under it flows the river Spree.
It is a semi-circle in form, the chariot,
with driver and four horses, turned toward
the palace on either end. Just opposite
the centre of it is a statue of the Emperor,
returning in victory to the palace, after the
Franco Prussian war. His horse is led by
a woman. The statue stands on a huge
pedestal of dark marble with four square
corners, with a lion on each of them. They
are to represent Germany at different stages
of the war. One lion is looking disturbed
and restless, clutching in his paws the im-
plements of war. The next one is opening
his mouth in anger and is gathering them
up. The next is springing forward,
mouth extended, spears, muskets, flags
and swords in active service.
	O, the terror inspired by such a monster,
a fitting type of the demon war!
	Then comes victorious peace. The lion
crouching down at rest, holding in triumph
broken muskets, broken hubs and wheels,
battered cannon, torn coats, swords with
broken blades, in fact the destruction of
war is fearfully delineated, and one shud-
ders, thinking how great the havoc and de-
struction of life entailed by this war.
	On the Emperor’s birthday beautiful
wreaths of flowers are placed on the steps
of the monument by a grateful people,
many faded ones lying there now. This is
the first and most imposing monument we
have yet seen. It is about sixty feet high
and bears the following inscription:
“Monument of Emperor William I., 1861-
1888.”
	Close by, in course of erection, is what
is called the “Dom Building.” This will
be to Germany what Westminster Abbey
is to England, the tomb of the Royal dead.
It is not nearly completed, though it has
been ten years since it was commenced.
This will be the sepulchre of the present
Kaiser and family.
(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
pace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1902.


[Column 1]
HAPPENINGS HERE AND THERE
	It will soon be a month since we left Salt
Lake City Eastward bound, and the readers
of our dear little home paper will expect some
account of the conventions and council in
Washington. There is so much to tell
that we shall each of us be telling it for
many weeks after we return home.
	Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon has reached
Utah before this time with her party of
four, and the reporters have probably ob-
tained information from her for the daily
papers.
	It will be interesting to our readers to
learn that we have seen and conversed
with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the
National and International Red Cross
Society, and also her field marshal, Dr.
Hubbell, who accompanies her on all her
expeditions. Miss Barton’s health is much
improved since last spring, when we visited
her at her home in Glen Echo with a party
of ladies, Mrs. J. Ellen Foster having
charge of the affair. At that time she
showed us all her jewels and badges of
honor given by the great people of differ-
ent countries, in recognition of her grand
services in times of great distress and
calamities.
	This winter she has apartments at the
Hotel Fairfax, in Washington, (the Coun-
cil headquarters) and therefore those stay-
ing in the house were privileged to see her
coming and going, or receiving callers in
the hotel parlors.
	The day Prince Henry arrived he sent
an official representative to call, upon her
by request of the Emperor of Germany.
She received him in the hotel parlor, and
of course all the guests were on tiptoe to
see the royal messenger in glittering
array with his foreign decorations. 
	Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unas-
suming, makes no pretensions to greatness or
honor and is reluctant to admit that she has
done anything worthy of such praise and
commendation as she receives from her many
friends and admirers. Her only object is
and has been to help suffering humanity.
She spent one entire evening with our
party and related, at our solicitation, inci-
dents in her life, giving a history of the
Red Cross in her deliberate way, now and
then referring to Dr. Hubbell for a date or
a name. She was glad when questions
were asked, and we were glad to learn
from her own words concerning her labors
and methods of work.
	When Prince Henry’s party went to

[Column 2]
Annapolis one of the gentlemen of his suite
stayed in Washington on purpose to pay
his respects to Miss Barton. She told us
he was a personal friend and a member of
the Emperor’s household.
	On Friday evening, February 28, the
writer spent hours in Miss Barton’s room
talking Mormonism and answering her
questions about our people and the past
history and future outlook. It was a rare
opportunity and very unexpected.
	Miss Barton addressed the Council at
two of its sessions, and was vigorously ap-
plauded whenever she appeared on the
platform, as was also Miss Susan B. Anth-
ony. These two great ladies are every-
where recognized as heroines of the age in
which we live.
	There were many others present who
rank high in woman’s work and who
may yet be as famous as these two women
who are celebrated on both continents.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the younger
suffrage leader, now president, re-elected at
the late convention of the N-A. W. S. A.,
and Miss Alice Stone Blackwell, the
daughter of Lucy Stone, who bids fair to
be as great as her illustrious mother, and
the Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the popular
lecturer and platform orator, perhaps the
most popular public speaker at the present
time on this side of the globe. These
women with the witty Harriet Taylor
Upton, who carries the money bags, are
the best known of the general officers.
Miss Mary G. Hay, who knows just how
to get the money, and Miss Gordon, the
corresponding secretary, are fast winning
their way on the road to fame.
	Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, presi-
dent of the National Council during the
last three years, won regal honors by her
graciously dignified way of presiding and
recognizing every one’s right to place and
time, and her total unconsciousness of self
and thoughtfulness of others. Her open-
ing address on Wednesday, February 19,
was gracefully written, and a magnificent
document worthy a place in the literature
of the new century.
	Other women of the Council who de-
serve mention and who added much to the
success of the Triennial, were Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president-at large; Dr.
Kate Waller Barrett, one of the most inter-
esting women in Washington; and the Rev.
Anna Garlin Spencer, who, through
her efficient labors in many directions in the
interest of the Council has come to be
recognized as one of the pillars of the
Council itself. She stands at the head of
the cabinet and is a born diplomat. Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson, of Boston, who is
the cabinet head of the fine arts committee,
gave one of the very best papers read dur-
ing the Triennial.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates was quite as
busy, if not more so than any woman at
the Council, attending to the press work,
and was finally elected chairman of the
press committee for the next three years.
Mrs. May Wright Sewall brought her name
before the audience in a very happy and
complimentary way.
	Later on we hope to publish some of
the best papers, or extracts from them; but
one cannot crowd much of such elaborate
doings and sayings into a few columns of a
small paper.
	We had the pleasure of meeting, both at
the Suffrage Convention and the National
Council, some of the very dear friends of

[Column 3]
many years ago, on our first visit to the
Capital: Mrs Rachel Foster Avery, then
Miss Rachel Foster, now a matron devoted
to motherly interests in the home, also
Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer, who
rendered such helpful assistance and gave
herself to our cause, as it were. Faithful
and true, friends in very deed have both
these been from that day to this. Belva A.
Lockwood, staunch and true as steel, Lillie
Devereaux Blake and dear Marilla Ricker,
though we did not see her this time. But
there are others, too, whose acquaintance we
have made since, no less true and truly
great, always to be depended upon. Clara
B. Colby, a genuine friend Hannah G.
Solomon and Dr. Ella L. Gilchrist, never to
be forgotten when we make up our jewels
among women; and we have dozens more—
Ida M. Weaver, Emma S. Olds, Sadie
American, Dell P. Glazier, Frances Burns—
and these are only a few of the bright
galaxy that shine out for the enlightenment
of the world.
	Then beside business sessions and public
meetings and “pioneer celebrations” and
the “new woman” and the “new man,”
there were grand receptions tendered in
elegant homes, music, art and dainty re-
freshments, of which more may be said
hereafter.
	The reception at the White House which
Mrs. Roosevelt had tendered to the Council
was cancelled because of the illness of her
son; but just before we left Washington
we had the opportunity of attending the
reception given to the Mothers’ Congress.
We also had the privilege, through the in-
fluence of Senator Kearns, a few of us, of
going through the White House conserva-
tory.
	Mrs. George Sutherland gave a luncheon
at the “New Willard” to the Utah dele-
gation, a most sumptuous affair, and a
number of us dined twice with Senator
Kearns at the “Raleigh.” Indeed we have
crowded as much as possible into the
few weeks at the Capital, and most of us
have been on duty the greater part of the
time.
	L. D. S. meetings have been held in
Baltimore and Philadelphia at which some
of our sisters were among the speakers,
and also here in New York City. Last
evening, Tuesday, March 4th, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Laine, there was a large
gathering of Utah people at what is termed
here a Cottage meeting. There were so
many from Salt Lake City present, one might
fancy in looking over the congregation that
Salt Lake had come to Gotham. There
was an excellent spirit and feeling manifest
and strong testimonies of the Gospel were
borne by the sisters and Elders from Utah
and by some of the new converts. We
can truly say, notwithstanding the oppo-
sition, that
	“Zion prospers, all is well.”


Mrs. Susan Cabot Richardson has just
left an estate of $200,000 to Radcliff
College.
	Miss Helen M. Gould, an advocate of
equal suffrage, has given $6,000 to create a
third Helen Day Gould scholarship of
$10,000 at Wellesley College, in memory
of her mother, and has added $3,000 to
raise the two existing Helen Day Gould
scholarships from $7,000 to $10,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madame President and Officers, of the
	National Council, Delegates, Repre-
	sentatives and Friends.

	We have the honor to submit to you at
this time the report of the National
Woman’s Relief Society from the last
Triennial session of the Council, in Febru-
ary, 1899, to the present Triennial, Febru-
ary, 1902, inclusive.
	I am most happy to be able to state that
the growth of this organization has been
greater during the last three years, numer-
cally and otherwise, than heretofore dur-
ing the same period of time, and that a
deeper sense of the purposes, scope and
breadth of the work, as originally intended
by its founders, is another self-evident fact.
To the advantages and opportunity opened
to women more recently because of the
advancement made every where in educa-
tion of a better and more practical nature,
this more rapid growth may be largely
due, or, shall we say, to the awakening
of both men and women to a higher sense
of the responsibilities resting upon them as
part and parcel of the world’s great com-
monwealth?
	However, we need not deal with causes,
but simply state conditions, as they have
developed during the interim of the three
years. From the ranks of our society
membership more women have been called
into active service by being placed in posi-
tions of trust that would necessarily call
out latent powers in the individual, and
this, we must admit, is always helpful to
the person, the society and the community.
	Many more branches of the organization
have been started, all under the super-
vision of the general officers, but each
equipped with the respective offices of
president, vice-presidents, secretaries and
treasurer, and the various committees
necessary as helps, generally among us
called teachers. Each separate society has
its own fund and accumulates means in
such ways as are practicable; for instance,
voluntary donations by members form the
nucleus, but working meetings for sewing,
quilting and making up new material,
bazars, concerts and dancing parties under
the auspices of the society, help to make
an amount sufficient for all needful ex-
penses. Means thus accumulated is some-
times used for a special purpose, stipulated
for beforehand, so that all understand; but
all collections from whatever sources, and
disbursements for whatever purposes, are
regularly reported in business meetings, in
each branch society, so that no one need be
in doubt about expenditures. It is really
wonderful what has been accomplished in
this way even in remote localities. Each
branch society has a legal status under the
laws of the State, and a board of trustees
to manage its affairs, with the co-operation
and approval of its members. Hundreds
of these branches own halls of their own in
which to meet, and for purposes of work
and storing of various articles owned by
the society. Some have built amusement
halls for local entertainments, concerts and
so on. Many have granaries well filled
with wheat against a day of scarcity and
famine, and altogether the society, is in a
flourishing condition as to its general status
and welfare.
	In the General Conference of the Society
held October, 1898, at a business meeting

[Column 2]
of the members, who had many of them
come long distances to attend, for instance
from Mexico, Canada and far off States, as
well as those nearer Utah, where the head-
quarters of the society is established in
Salt Lake City, the discussion of ways and
means to maintain headquarters and to car-
ry on the missionary work necessary and
to defray the expenses of such a great
organization, culminated in a proposition
to collect annually from each member ten
cents for a general fund, this collection
to be made on the 17th of March, the anni-
versary of the first organization.
	In March, 1899, the first collection was
made, and it has been continued since,
each succeeding year. By this means calls
for special donations have been avoided
and the result has been most gratifying
for every one knows how difficult it is to
collect money to defray expenses of print-
ing, stationery, stamps and those little
incidentals that are unavoidable in carry-
ing on the work of even small organiza-
tions.
	In April of that year, too, the society
commenced collecting money by voluntary
donation towards erecting a Woman’s
Building in Salt Lake City for the use and
purposes of the General Society, the land
having been given to the society for the
building in a most desirable locality on
the Main Street, opposite the Salt Lake
Temple. There is not yet sufficient money
donated but there is a good prospect that
all needed will be forthcoming in the near
future, or when it shall be deemed expe-
dient to commence the building.
	The officers of the General Society and
their co-laborers in all the several Stakes
and branches look forward with delightful
anticipation to the completion of this
Woman’s Building, and expect to have
within its walls a library and bureau of
information, that will be in the best sense
educational, and be open to all members of
the society, and where lectures may be
given by distinguished professors in all
branches of science, art and literature, and
on general topics.
	These hopes and ambitions can only be
given the briefest mention in a report of
this kind, but this society has recently
introduced in a small way lectures and
talks upon suggestive subjects, that will
lead to a broad field of culture in this
direction. Lectures on hygiene and
domestic science are at present perhaps the
most popular, but such as pertain to home
and motherhood have always been con-
sidered a legitimate part of the Relief
Society movement.
	In the report made to the Council in
1899, casual mention was made of the
nurses class or classes; since then much
has been done In this line of charity work,
and should receive special mention on ac-
count of its great value to the society and
the public weal. A call was made in Salt
Lake City and County for girls and young
women volunteers to study nursing and
receive training under the auspices of the
Relief Society, so that they would be quali-
fied to give skilled attendance to the sick
poor. One hundred or more responded to
the call, they were also instructed in cook-
ing and serving food for invalids. At the
close of the term about one hundred young
women received certificates to practice in
the profession of nurses from the medical
examiners, who have since highly approved
of their splendid work in attending the

[Column 3]
sick. The nurses’ classes have been
under the direction of superintendents, ap-
pointed by the officers of the society to take
charge of the work, though the instruction
was given free by a woman physician
who called to her aid the most eminent of
the medical fraternity in the city, to give
lectures, now and then, to the classes in
her charge.
	In connection with the nurses depart-
ment of work in the Relief Society, there
is an emergency closet well supplied with
clothing for mother and child, cots and
every convenience for the comfort and
cleanliness of the patient, and all that is
needful to make the burden lighter all
around.
	There have also been nurses’ classes in
connection with obstetrics taught in other
parts of Utah and in Arizona, Idaho and
Mexico, and it is the intention of the
General Society to extend this class of
training for nurses until every society has
skilled nurses to call to its aid in times of
sickness among the poor, that they may
have the benefit of the same intelligent
nursing and care as those who can afford to
pay for skilled attendance.
	In the society official visits are made by
at least two members of the General Board
from time to time to conferences of the
society in different localities, and uniform
instruction is given, so that all may work
in harmony, each Stake, as it is termed,
consisting of two or more branches, re-
ceiving at least one or two visits a year,
even though the distance is great. During
the year 1899 the branches of the society in
England, Scotland and Wales were visited,
and more recently the Scandinavian coun-
tries have been visited by sisters from
Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was appointed
while residing temporarily in Germany to
preside over the branches of the Relief
Society in that country and also in
Switzerland. The branches in the Sand-
wich Islands are also presided over by a
president from Utah. Nearly every,
branch, if not every, one in the United
States, Canada and Mexico has been
visited during this last year, and very much
has been done for the last thirty years by
official correspondence and through the col-
umns of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Among other things, the Relief Society
during the last three years has been doing
some active work in the interest of the
movement for universal peace and arbitra-
tion; but it is impossible to enumerate all
that this society has undertaken. The work
is increasing and multiplying as well as
the membership, and it scarcely seems
possible to do all that is really desirable,
but our women are zealously striving to
live by the Golden Rule, and do the duty
that lies nearest and walk in the light of
truth and follow the pattern set by the
blessed Savior and Redeemer of the world
of mankind.
	This assembly of representative women
are, we are sure, most of them aware, of
the loss sustained by our society in the
death of our beloved and revered president,
Mrs Zina D. H. Young, but though we mourn
her absence and miss her gentle ministra-
tions and sublime teachings and counsel,
yet we feel comforted in the blessed
assurance of her having passed from death
unto life, and that she has entered into the
rest prepared for the faithful, and joined
the innumerable company on the other side
where there is no more sorrow or mourn-


[Column 1]
ing forevermore. And we of the society,
her co-workers, who loved her so tenderly,
will ever hold her memory precious and
strive to emulate her noble example of
patience, humility, and the “charity that
never faileth.”
	In her successor who has been elected to
fill the vacancy, we feel the same un-
swerving faith and confidence; we know
her sterling integrity in the work to which
she has consecrated almost her entire life,
and we commend her to the officers and
members of the National Council of
Women, and feel assured they will find in
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith a woman emi-
nently qualified for the position to which
she has been elected by the members of the
society over whom she has the honor to
preside. She is the only woman now liv-
ing who was present when the Relief
Society was organized in the State of Illi-
nois sixty years ago on the 17th of next
March, 1902. The anniversary will be
celebrated throughout the entire society in
a manner suited to the memorable occasion.
	Salt Lake City was highly favored last
summer in having for its guest of honor
the president of the International Council
of Women, Mrs. May Wright Sewall; it
was a rare treat and a pleasure that will
not soon be forgotten. Committees from
each of the two National Societies affiliated
with the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
had charge of the arrangements for the
entertainment of the distinguished lady,
and among other pleasing features of her
visit, Mrs. Sewall addressed an audience of
seven or eight thousand people in the great
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City on the Sab-
bath day, on her favorite theme, Inter-
nationalism. We all regretted that her
stay was so brief and we are sorry that we
could not have been favored with a visit
from our honored president of the National
Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney,
but we sincerely hope to have that honor
in the near future, and trust that it will be
our pleasant privilege to hear Mrs. Gaffney
address as large an audience in the Taber-
nacle as assembled on the occasion of Mrs.
Sewall’s public address.
	We are proud to welcome to our moun-
tain home, women who are giving their
best efforts to the amelioration of the con-
ditions of womankind, and the advance-
ment and enlightenment of the world at
large. Our best endeavors shall be given
to strengthen the ties of love that shall event-
ually bring about the reign of peace on
earth and good will to all mankind.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AETERNOON PARTY.
	On Wednesday, March 12, Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson entertained the widows
of the Fourteenth Ward, and a number
who were not residents of that ward, in-
cluding Presidents Bathsheba W. Smith
and M. Isabella Horne. Brother George
Taylor, Bishop of the ward, was also
present.
	The rooms were prettily decorated with
carnations and beautiful feathery ferns.
The time was pleasantly spent in con-
versation, speeches, music, both vocal and
instrumental, and dancing by little Clay
Wilcox, a granddaughter of the hostess.
The music was a feature of the afternoon,
and was greatly enjoyed by those present.
	At five o’clock the guests repaired to the


dining room where a delicious dinner was
served. Bishop Taylor sat at the head of the
table and pronounced the blessing. The
scene was one not soon to be forgotten: the
snowy linen, dainty china and fragrant
flowers the calm, serene faces of the dear
sisters who have most of them grown old
in the service of the Lord; the gracious
hostess herself, giving a kind word here
and a smile there, and the strains of sweet
music floating in from some distant room.
	Sister Stevenson’s parties are always de-
lightful and will be long remembered by
her associates in the ward, the Relief Society
and the Temple, in all of which she is a
faithful, earnest worker.
						A. I. E.


ADIES’ SEM I-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, January
4, 1902, Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Opened by singing, “Come, let us anew.”
Prayer by Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Sing-
ing, “All hail the new born year.” The
minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	Sister E Stevenson said she was very hap-
py to be with the sisters. We must not live
for ourselves, we must live for the blessings
we get.
	Sisters Brown and Barrow bore faithful
testimonies, and Sister Taylor thanked the
Lord for her blessings.
	Sister Palmer felt good to be at the
meeting, it was more to her than anything
else.
	Sister Sarah J Cannon said she felt
honored in the position to which she had
been called. Said she always honored
Sister Horne.
	Sister Hardy said she loved to bear her
testimony with the sisters. She had done
work in the Temple, and always felt well in
working for the dead.
	Sister Simmons felt the spirit of God
was with us.
	Sisters Ellis and Lund felt thankful that
the Lord had blessed them and bore faith-
ful testimonies.
	Sister Luff spoke of the greeting to the
Relief Society by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, she felt it was inspired of the Lord.
	Sisters Casset and Wright spoke of the
blessings of the Lord to them and felt to
sustain those placed over them.
	Several other sisters spoke of the pleasure
they felt in being privileged to work in the
Temple.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said we should
have a special care over those who are
backward in asking for help and see that
they receive assistance.
	Sister E J. Stevenson urged all to try
and bear their testimony. Exhorted the
teachers of the society to do their duty.
	The meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Amelia Wardrop.
		AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
ALPINE STAKE
	The fourth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
American Fork, January 24 1901.
	Meeting called to order at 10 a. m., Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Brother James Kirkham. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.”
	The Stake officers were all present and

[Column 2]
all the presidents of the war ds, as shown
by the roll call. Minutes of m orning ses-
sion of former conference read a d accepted.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters
and was pleased to see so many present.
	President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant
Grove ward. The sisters were laying up
wheat and relieving the poor, of whom
they have quite a few; were united in their
labors.
	President Martha Woolley reported Tin-
den. Are a small ward with sixty-one
members, have a band of good sisters and
find a benefit in taking the meetings to the
houses.
	President Isadora Beck reported Manila.
They are all united and have good
meetings. Visit the sick and help the
poor.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi. The
society is in good condition, the sisters all
united.
	President Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Valley. Had a Mothers’ and Daughters’
meeting and never had a better time.
Have stored some wheat and feel they are
gradually improving.
	Alpine was reported by President Sarah
Marsh. Were relieving the poor and lay-
ing up grain. Encouraged the young
mothers to join the society.
	American Fork First Ward reported by
President Orpha Robinson. They had
bought five tons of coal for the poor and
helped the missionaries some. Are united
and getting along very well.
	American Fork Second Ward reported
by President Sarah S. Chipman. Had
held meetings at the sisters’ homes and
found quite an improvement in attendance.
	American Fork, Third Ward, reported by
President Mary E. Abel. They have good
meetings, hold two a month.
	American Fork Fourth Ward reported
by President Alice T. Steele. Are in good
condition, have the teachers report the poor
and carry them supplies. They have a
good attendance at their cottage meetings.
	Lehi North branch was reported by Sis-
ter Ellen Jones. They have fifty members
enrolled, have good teachers and are try-
ing to do their best for the furtherance of
the work of the Lord.
	President Rebecca Standring was truly
thankful to hear the reports of the presi-
dents. Spoke of Mothers’ and Daughters’
meetings, they are for the enefit of the
young women. The instruction given
should be for the improvement of the
youth of Zion, and to teach them the
principles of life and health, also for the
training of children. Spoke of the duties
of teachers, it is to carry comfort and prog-
ress to the people. They should be so
filled with the Spirit of God that they can
discern the spirits of those they visit.
God is with us in our labors, and if our
young people will attend Relief Society
meetings they will receive great benefit
and will be prepared to take the places of
their mothers. Had visited every ward in
the Stake, and the reports of the Stake
officers show the condition of the wards.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation,” etc. Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	The afternoon session of conference con-
tinued at 2 p. m. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing,” Prayer by Brother Christensen.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand


flowers.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and accepted.
	President Standring spoke of the 17th of
March and our membership fee. Thought
we should have a jubilee.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
was glad to see so many in conference and
to hear the reports of the presidents of the
wards.
	President Joseph H. Clarke said if we
wish to progress we must do our duty.
Where the Lord has selected a person
to do a certain work, He will qualify
him for that work and bless him in the
performance of that duty. It is our duty
to sustain whoever is placed over us. The
Savior told the people to offer their prayers
in secret and He would reward them
openly.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought
if Paul were here today he would be con-
verted to the idea that it was good for
the sisters to speak in meetings.
	Stake Aid Rosalie Driggs enjoyed the
meeting very much. “We are blest in
having such good sisters at the head of our
society. We know they are doing their
best, and we should bring our bodies and
minds in subjection to the will of God, be
charitable to our brethren and sisters and
teach our children the ways of God.”
	President Stephen S. Chipman said, “We
certainly enjoy the spirit of our calling.
We must learn to sacrifice our feelings and
allow others to use their judgment as well
as us.”
	Brother Christensen spoke of his
travels among the Lamanites.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke bore her testimony
and rejoiced in the truth. Had been read-
ing the old EXPONENTS and found they
were good to read. Referred to the teach-
ings on sericulture.
	Brother Jos. Kirkham read a piece of
poetry entitled “Two Words.”
	President Standring said we should take
joy and pleasure raising silk, for by this
means the sisters could clothe their chil-
dren. Urged them to try and raise silk.
They could get the eggs and a book of in-
structions for the asking.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Bene-
diction by President Stephen S. Chipman.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
SARAH E. B. GURR.

	Sister Sarah Elizabeth Barker Gurr departed
this life, February 3, 1902. She was born in
England, January 7, 1837, and joined the Church
when but seventeen years old, married about the
same time and was the mother of nine children.
She was a model of industry and cleanliness, and
though quiet and unassuming was an ambitious
worker in the cause of righteousness.
	Sister Gurr had been a member of the R. S. of
Parowan ward since the organization, filled the
office of counselor and treasurer and was a teacher
up to the time of her demise, which was very sud-
den, being caused by a paralytic stroke.
	Sister Gurr’s history is replete with good works; 
charitable to the needy, a comforter to the de-
pressed, never wearying in well doing, none more
faithful in attending meetings; her absence will
be felt and her testimony missed, for she always
considered it a glorious privilege to testify of our
Father's goodness, and the blessings that would
follow the believer.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That the members of the Parowan 
Ward Relief Society appreciate the Christ-like
example of Sister Gurr, and desire to profit by her
worthy example and humbly acknowledge that

[Column 2]
an over-ruling Providence doeth all things well. 
	That a copy of this remembrance be placed
upon the records of our Relief Society, one be 
sent to her devoted and worthy husband and chil-
dren and one to the Woman's Exponent for 
publication.
			E. CRANE WATSON.

AGNES GOLDING.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory 
of Sister Agnes Romania Carroll Golding, who 
departed this life December 27, 1901.
	Deceased was born April 25, 1881, at Thurber,
Wayne County. She moved with her parents to
Cainville, January 1, 1886, and was married to
Seman A. Golding in the Manti Temple, May,
1901.
	Sister Mania, as she was lovingly called, was 
not of a robust constitution, but was very ambi-
tious, self-sacrificing to a fault and willing to 
assist those in need. During the winter previous
to her marriage she attended the Snow Academy 
in Ephraim, making a good record. She was
very patient during her sickness, which lasted the
whole of her married life. She was a teacher in
the Sunday School and Relief Society, secretary
in the Y. L. M. I. A., ward clerk and Stake aid
in the Primary Association, which positions of
trust she faithfully filled. She was a bright, ener-
getic worker, humble and unassuming, and with 
her lovable disposition endeared herself to all.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Resoved, That we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society, feel the loss of such a faithful
worker in the cause of the Lord in our ward.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the 
bereaved husband, father, mother, brothers, sis-
ters and relatives, and earnestly pray that the 
holy Spirit of God may rest down upon them and
comfort them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the husband and family, one be inserted in
our records and one be published in WOMAN'S
 EXPONENT. 
		Mary E. Hanks.

ELIZA JOHANNAH HALL.
	Sister Eliza Johannah Hall was born February
3, 1857, at Fort Supply. She was the daughter of
Eliza and Eli Tracy, of Huntsville, Utah. She 
married Orson Hall in 1877, and came to Uintah Stake with her husband and family and has re-
sided at Mountain Dell ever since. 
	She was president of the Relief Society of 
Mountain Dell at the time of her death, was 
a sincere and earnest worker in the cause of truth,
a virtuous and loving wife and a kind and faithful
mother.
	She was the mother of eleven children, of whom
seven are now living. She died at Mountain
Dell, November 14, 1901.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called 
from our midst Sister Eliza Johannah Hall, who 
was always faithful in performing her duties in 
the Relief Society and merited the love and re-
spect of all her associates, we feel to express our
love for her.
	Resolved, That as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words cannot fully express the esteem
in which we hold her, and while we feel the deep-
est sorrow at our loss we bow obediently to the
will of God.
	That we ever cherish her memory and strive to
follow her example by being faithful Latter-day
Saints.
	That we extend to her husband, family and
relatives our sincere sympathy for their sad loss. 
		Mary Hall.


[Column 1]
HOW I EMBRACED THE GOSPEL
	I received the Gospel in Utica, in 1842.
I spent the summer in Utica, N. Y., at the
house of Mrs. Rebecca Monroe, who was a
tailoress by trade. She was highly recom-
mended to me, and wishing to learn the
same business, I went there and felt my-
self well rewarded while there for var-
ous reasons, one being that I learned
my business, which is very profitable and
useful in families of children, especially
among the farmers. A good seamstress is
good on all ocasions, for we had no sewing
machines in those days.
	Another reason was the Gospel called

[Column 2]
Mormonism was brought there by Elder
James Blakesley, but very few people
would go to hear him, myself being one of
them. Mrs. Monroe went gladly. Her
brother, who lived in Buffalo, had written
to her to go without fail if a Mormon came
to Utica to preach.
	I would not go. I was a devoted mem-
ber of the Episcopal church. I greatly en-
joyed their form of worship. Our prayers
were so humble, so childlike, so sincere
and unitedly speaking together, I felt to
say, verily the Lord does delight to own
us and bless us, for he said, “Except ye
are one, ye are not mine.” And I thought
every one loves his own, and since God is
our Father, are we not all brothers and
sisters? Mormons can love each other and
we will do the same.
	Mrs. Monroe’s love increased for the
Mormons, and she was anxious that I
should go and hear them. Finally she told
me. The Bible tells us he who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool. Yes, I
could plainly see this, and I said I will go
and hear him, but do not expect to see as
he does. I went, and to my astonishment
was confounded. His doctrine was to be a
strict believer in the Redeemer. But I
must take time to think, for Jesus said
there will be false prophets in the last
days. I thought this being the case, I do
not want to see a prophet. Why should
we? Is not Jesus our teacher and the New
Testament our guide?
	On the first of September I found that
two of the daughters of Mrs. Monroe were
to be baptized and three of her sisters, and
felt myself ready to join the number.
Elder Blakesley baptized us on that day. The
next Sunday Catherine’s babe was sick,
she could not go. After meeting Ruth
said, “I am going to see the sick child.” I
said, “May I go?” and Elder Blakesley
said, “May I go?” Of course he would
like a walk.
	We were soon there, going only two
blocks. After shaking hands and being
seated he asked, “If your clock were out
of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?”
	We looked at each other, not knowing
why he asked the question. “Do you not
think the maker of the clock would be the
best repairer?”
	“Oh, certainly,” was the reply.
	He said, “The maker of that little frame
is the best repairer.”
	The mother took the hint and said, “Will
you administer to the child?”
	“Well, let us pray,” he said.
	We all knelt down and he offered a fer-
vent prayer. We all said amen in earnest.
	He arose and laid his hands on her. She
took no notice, had not been conscious
all day. When he said amen she raised
her eyes and reached her hands to her
mother. She took her from the cradle on
her lap. She then asked for a drink of
water. After drinking she asked for some-
thing to eat, then getting down on the floor
began to play.
	This was the sister of our Bishop, Hyrum
Clawson. She married a Mr. Lamb and
lives in Utah. Her mother and I were bap-
tized at the same time. I shall never for-
get my feelings when Harriet was healed,
wishing I might realize the same when I
should be sick. It was two years before I
was sick, then I found the same remedy
produced the same effect.
	Now, I thought every one who read the


[Column 1]
Bible would be a Mormon, but found my-
self mistaken. When I  went to see our
Episcopal minister, hoping he would in-
vestigate our principles, “Oh, no,” he told
me, “I must remember that whether there
be prophecies they will fail, tongues shall
cease—”
	Here he stopped. I repeated the next
sentence, “And knowledge will vanish
away.”
	“Well,” said he, “Whoever shall add to
the words of this book, God will add the
plagues which are written there.”
	“Yes,” said I, “this is John the Reve-
lator’s vision. He would not have you add
from it.”
	He then asked to be excused, said he
must visit a sick person. I was disap-
pointed and grieved, but still hoped he
might yet see the Gospel in its own true
light.
	All this happened in September. Oc-
tober came and my time expired and I went
home to Deansville, a small village twelve
miles from Utica. Nice farms were sur-
rounding the place, in whose families I
could use my trade. My stepfather, whose
name was Joseph Dunlap, welcomed me
home and I gave him some books to read
concerning our faith. The farmers said to
me, “Your father is getting to he a Mor-
mon.” I replied, “No, he is only reading
some books.”
	Finally an Elder arrived at our home,
his name was Cyprian Marsh. But our
neighbors would not give him leave to
preach in that settlement. Our next door
neighbor, an aged woman, whose name I
do not remember, said she was acquainted
with Joseph Smith and all the Smith fam-
ily. She was a bitter enemy of theirs and
made our neighbors bitter also, so much
so that they made an effigy of Mr. Marsh
in the field opposite our house. They did
not burn it, however, they did it to vex us.
Elder Marsh was a good speaker and did
a good work. In a short time, in one week
think, our family accepted the Gospel and
were baptized in a stream which ran
through our lot. Cyprian Marsh baptized
them after damming up the stream. There
were four of them, Father Dunlap’s daugh-
ter, Ann and his brother, Dawson Dunlap,
my mother, Sarah Dunlap, and our
dressmaker, Ursula Cole, who was
sewing for us at the time. All were pleased
and thankful they had heard the Gospel.
	Elder Marsh then left us to go to Nau-
voo. We met him there in one year after.
The farmers, our neighbors, were willing
we should go, and willing to buy our
property to help us go, because they did
not like our religion. Accordingly we
were all glad to take our leave, wishing to
see and hear the Prophet.
	Father and mother must go to see my
mother’s sister who lived twenty miles
east of Utica. She hoped her sister would
enjoy this Gospel as she had done, and
wished to give her a chance. But Aunt
Mary believed in election, and said, “If
you are one of the elect you will be saved,
but if not, you will not.”

[Column 2]
	She had a daughter quite low with con-
sumption, Cousin Ann Maria Dodge. She
told me she wished me to stay with her
mother. She said, “Mother will be so
lonesome when I am gone.” My mother
gave her consent and I stayed, but in one
short week her spirit took its flight. But
father and mother were on their way to
Nauvoo, leaving my sister, Ann, with
Mrs. Monroe, in Utica.
	September arrived and Ann came for me
to go to Nauvoo, saying a company was
soon to start from Buffalo to Nauvoo. We
took leave of Aunt Mary and went. We
arrived there in time and found Mrs. Mon-
roe’s brother and family (a part of them)
went with us.
	The captain of this company was Brad-
ford Elliot. After leaving for Cincinnati
we came to the Ohio river and took a steam
boat. Here we found a company from
Boston (Brigham Young was their captain)
and others from Nauvoo, Daniel Spencer
and Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith,
Sister Cobb and two children. Her baby
died at Cincinnati but the little girl is liv-
ing yet, here in Utah.
	We found the Boston company very
agreeable, making our trip quite a pleasant
one. We arrived in Nauvoo in September.
The weather was quite fine and the city a
pleasant one, but some enemies destroyed
the peace of the prophet, as well as of the
Church. He had been arrested and taken
before the magistrates over thirty times and
proved innocent each time. The climate
was not healthy because of the fog which
rose from the river. We all had chills and
fever, yet could attend meeting and hear
our prophet preach, I am happy to say. But
the unhappy feelings continued, and after
awhile they must see the prophet, he must
bear the blame for everything.
	He had crossed the river to see some
Indians in Iowa, with some others. Brother
John Taylor and his (Joseph’s) brother,
Hyrum, and Willard Richards were with
him. Sister Emma Smith, his wife, sent
them a person saying, “Surely the shep-
herd will not leave the sheep. O, no,
come back to the sheep, to save yourself 
and the sheep.”
	His brother said “Let us go back.” They
all took his counsel and delivered them-
selves up and went with him to Carthage.
	You know the result. Joseph and Hyrum
did not survive, they were martyrs. As
his mother said, “They are better off than
those who slew them.” But their brother
Samuel’s grief was more than he could
bear, he only lived one month. This was
in June, 1844.
	We were permitted to finish the Temple
sufficient to receive ordinances therein, then
leave it, which we did. This took one
year and a half. We had the use of it in
January, then left .for the mountains in
February, 1846, arrived the same year
at Council Bluffs and wintered there. A
part of the company, however, stopped at
Mount Pisgah for a time and a few at
Garden Grove, and others at Council
Bluffs, but the greater part reached Win

[Column 3]
ter Quarters and so many children and par-
ents died there that it seemed quite a field
of the dead.
	In April, 1846, the officers of the Church,
with Brother Brigham the captain, left for
the mountains, and in May another com-
pany followed, myself being one of them.
	The Sabbath day was a blessing to the
people as well as the cattle, and the Platte
river was also a blessing. We were bene-
fited by it nearly all the way until we came
to Green river. Here we came th chimney
rock, so called because a rock about the
size of a house at the bottom, then a black
chimney at the top singular to look at but
on the other side of the river. On this side,
we found a tree and a pail. In the tree was
a letter written by our brethren, the pion-
eers, who left it for us. Twice we found
letters for us in a tree, with the date when
they left there. Not long after we met
them on their way going home, a joyful
meeting. This was at Pacific Spring, so
called because it was the first stream which
flowed towards the Pacific ocean.
	They stopped with us two days, because
we must travel twenty miles before we
came to water. This would be hard on the
animals. After telling us the difficulties
we must meet, we bade each other fare-
well, wishing each other peace and pros-
perity.
	In one week we arrived at the Fort, our
home, built of logs by those who had re-
turned from the Mexican war. Yes, those
men to whom Brother Brigham said, “I do
not think you will fight, for the Lord said,
‘I will fight your battles.’ ”
	It was September 12 when our captain,
George B. Wallace, arrived. A part of his
company came later and took their time. 
	We had no snow for three months, and
not through the winter, as I expected. City
Creek watered the ground nicely. One of
the company had a large ox, the poorest
animal. I ever saw the property of Joseph
Dunlap. In six weeks it was fat and good
and was killed. The beef was as tender as
a chicken.
	Well, all the cattle were the same, no
doubt, and by dividing our share with the
Indians we made friends with them. Yet
they would sometimes help themselves to
our cattle when they could find a herd
some distance from a settlement. This
taught us that we must watch as well as
pray, and do as we wish to be done by
under such circumstances.
					M. E. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage.  We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order.  Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

