NOTES FROM THE FIELD 605 Gladys O. Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports that a yalentine theme was followed in carrying out the arrangements for this lovely social: "We made a large valentine for the visiting teachers, which read: 'A Valentine For Yow, For the Wonderful Work You Do.' Our stake Singing Mothers presented the music, and a skit entitled 'Fruits of the Message' was presented by Brother and Sister Quentin Ottley and their family. Talks were given by Esther Thalman, and Clara Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society, who was a special guest speaker. One hundred and forty-five sisters attended the convention. We paid special honor to eighteen sisters who had a one hundred per cent attendance at their visiting teacher meetings for the past year." aes ose LON HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elder Harold R. Boyer, President, Monument Park Stake; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Velma N. Simonsen, former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Henrietta H. Young, President, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; May J. Dyer; Leone W. Doxey; Thelma S. Buchanan; Beverly J. Pond, President, Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society. Sister Young reports: ""The Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society held a birthday reception at their new chapel on March 17, 1962, honoring General President Belle S. Spafford; former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Velma N. Simonsen; Leone W. Doxey, recently appointed First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Primary Association; May J. Dyer, and Thelma S. Buchanan, to which all members of the Relief Society and their husbands and other stake members were mvited. Sister Simonsen, Sister Dyer, and Sister Buchanan are wives of mission presidents recently returned to the Twelfth Ward after presiding over Relief Society in missions of the Church. Sister Pond and her counselors did much advance planning to make this a lovely affair. It was held on a Saturday between the hours of five and seven P. M., and refreshments were served in the beautifully decorated Relief Society room. In carrying out the theme 'Relief Society Is the Key to the Good Life,' attractive key chains were given to all the sisters who attended." BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL SIXTH WARD