VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, Objective: To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. N this quotation from The Doctrine and Covenants, marvelous blessings are promised to those who are righteous. The Lord says that, "he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his re- _ ward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come" (D & C 59:23). The word righteousness is used extensively throughout the scriptures and is a word which all of us feel that we understand. Yet, when we speak of a person as being righteous, are we thinking in specific or in general terms? Do we know the specific qualities or. "works" of which righteousness is composed? If we seek to do the works of righteousness, how can we develop the qualities which will lead to such works? A good description of a righteous person is to be found in the Old Testament in David's first psalm which. States, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his Jaw doth he meditate day and night" (Psalms 1:1-2). In the New 'Testament, the Lord's Sermon on the Mount outlines most clearly the specific qualities of righteousness. Some of the more important of these are love, meekness, mercy, pureness of heart and mind, peacemaking, forgiveness, tolerance, chastity, faithfulness, constancy, prayerfulness, kindness, charity, humility, and benevolence. 'This is a rather inclusive list and one which, offhand, might appear overpowering. Nevertheless, we can find comfort and assurance in the fact that we will be moving toward the desired goal of righteous living if we are doing conscientiously all we can to practice these virtues in our lives. One of the choice examples which shows the effects of nghteous living is found in Fourth Nephi in the Book of Mormon. Following the Savior's. Visit with the Nephite peoples and the establishment of his church among them, the people lived in righteousness for approximately 200 years. During this period, "... They did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord." And "|.. There was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.... And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings' (4 Nephi 12, 15-16, 18). No nation and no community is any stronger than the righteousness of the individuals of which it is composed. 'This was true during the two-hundred year period after the Savior's visit to the American Continent and it is true today. Another Nephite prophet said, "if there be no righteousness there be no happiness" (2 Nephi 2:13). How can we individually do the works of righteousness and thus lay the foundation for happiness and peace in our own lives? We can practice a little more kindness. We can show more love and consideration to our families, friends, and neighbors. We can be tolerant and charitable and, through prayer, we can seek more diligently our Father in heaven's divine will. The practice of these and other qualities of righteousness will bring us more peace of mind and more joy of living.