WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part II) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. ET us start this discussion by having our hidden panel* give a brief review of our Family Values Test. Questions for the panel: 1. What do we mean by Latter-day Saint family values? 2. Why should homemakers measure their values? 3. How can the family values test be a starting point for setting family goals? 4. Give practical ideas about ways in which family values are learned. Our Latter-day Saint family values are learned; they are not inherited. 'They become a part of each. Day's activities and a part of the life of each family member. They build within us spiritual strength, morality, human dignity, creativeness, inventiveness, productivity, and satisfying family living. Through these values we can become an example to the rest of the world. We must know our values before we set our goals. See how this works: if health is important to you, but you cannot answer "yes" to all these items about health that are listed on the Family Values Test, then these items may become your goals. Likewise, you will find other goals as you examine the ten values on the test. The home manager, while having all the major family values in mind, can make a priority listing of goals. She will make progress faster if she concentrates on one goal at a time. She may decide that her family should be healthier and happier, so this week she will do her utmost to make mealtime the highlight in each dav's experience. If she concentrates on this, she will find that planning meals for the week, shopping for the week, and organizing her work so that much of the preparation is done ahead of time, will free her to freshen up before sitting *Assigned panel members are seated in the audience rather than as a group around the table. As the leader asks a question, the assigned "hidden" panel member rises and comments. Another panel member in another part of the room follows quickly. Nonpanel members may join in after the main points have been considered. Page 617 618 down to the table, and she will have some moments to think about pleasant table talk to enrich each meal experience. Mastering all of these skills will take more than a week, perhaps more than a year, but if she concentrates on them long enough to work out a system with all the family co-operating, she will gradually develop a routine that will be second nature to her and her family. The new goal might grow out of her need for greater convenience in preparing meals. One homemaker found that her cupboards were filled with gadgets that she seldom used, and those she used most were not conveniently located. She put everything from her kitchen cupboards on the back porch. As she needed an item, she would bring it in and put it in the place where she used it. By the end of the week she still had most of the items on the back porch! 'Those that she had brought in helped her to work out a more convenient way of storing everyday equipment, and the seldom-used items were put away from the main working area. She selected some compact work centers for specific jobs, where the much-used equipment found its new home. The sink center was the place for cleaning vegetables and other foods, and for washing dishes, so the cuoking tools and equipment used first at the sink were stored there. She arranged for more counter space on each side of the sink by bringing up an old table from the basement; she planned for garbage disposal under the sink; and provided places for dish-washing equipment and supplies, and for all of the foods used at the sink first. Her dishes were put into the cupboard at the left of the sink because she washed them from right to left. When she had finished this one job, she had taken an important step in organizing her home by having everything at the sink that was used there first. Then she started on the cooking center. Since this is the place where food is cooked and made ready for serving, she decided to store everything used first at the range in that place.: This included pans, cooking kettles, lids, and serving dishes and tools. Nearby were the cereals, noodles, and seasonings. Her husband helped her with the third center, for mixing and food preparation. This is the area where all foods are prepared for cooking, chilling, or freezing. She located this work area between the sink and the refrigerator and was able to get three feet of counter space on two different levels, one for "stand-up" work and one for "sit-down" jobs. All of the foods, cooking tools, and equipment used first at this place were stored there. Baking tins, casseroles, packaged and canned foods, as well as mixing tools and equipment, had a special place. The simple task of organizing the kitchen cupboards caused _ this homemaker to send for information about kitchen planning which she was able to get from the extension service and the local library. Her enthusiasm spread to other members of her family. 'They were soon helping her in getting a smoother production line for the preparation of food and in making the kitchen a more attractive and pleasant place | LESSON DEPARTMENT in which to work. A space at the end of the kitchen was provided for children's play; the walls were painted and a new light fixture was put in the ceiling; better ventilation was provided, the wiring was checked to make sure that electrical equipment would be safe to use. 'There were comfortable working heights for standing and for sitting, and all of this started from trying to figure out where to put the utensils that are used first at each of the three major kitchen centers. The results were a place for everything and everything could now be easily kept in its place. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the advantages of an orderly home. 2. What can be done to organize dresser drawers and closets? Exhibit some box dividers and other storage items that will improve organization. 3. Discuss the advantages of having duplicate cleaning supplies in different parts of the house, such as in the bathroom, kitchen, and laundry area. 4. Give suggestions for storage of a. Towels, soap, and other needed items in the bathroom. B. Detergents and other items needed in doing the family laundry. C. Children's toys.