LITERATURE America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 34 — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495). For Third Meeting, Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. T was not until 1890, almost thirty years after his death, that Thoreau was truly evaluated in print, by Henry S. Salt, significantly an English biographer. Until well into the twentieth century the majority of his fellow Americans felt him to be an eccentric troublemaker, who, although he had written some nice nature-pieces, predominantly made his readers dissatisfied; therefore he was to be avoided. Although Thoreau's admirers wrote tributes to his memory, they could not detach themselves sufficiently from Victorian complacency and materialism to realize that while their beliefs and culture patterns 620 A Perry Picture THOREAU'S HOME, CONCORD, MASSACHUSETTS were crumbling, Thoreau's stern denunciations of worldly wealth and group cowardice were gradually being read by more people everywhere. Thoreau, Craftsman Many have been attracted to Thoreau by his idealism, perhaps stated the most purely in "Higher Laws," a chapter in Walden: Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails (page 223). Defining all sensuality as but one gross appetite yielded to in various forms, Thoreau likewise defines all purity as one; thus all forms of purity are but variants of chastity, which is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open.... If you would be chaste, you must be temperate.... Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome. What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer than a heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more religious?...... Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them (Ibid., pp. 224-225). Many have gradually come to esteem 'Thoreau's contribution to their own lives, for honestly telling them the price they must pay if they are to advance toward their ideals. He shows them how — first of all in | LESSON DEPARTMENT his own personal life, then by writing them his method, by giving them of himself in an_ integrity of thought, deed, and word. The writing which resulted from this integration of the author and _ his thought produces sentences packed with power, as exemplified by the following excerpts from the chapter "Conclusion" in Walden.... If you would learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs of all nations... Obey the precept of the old philosopher, and Explore thyself.... If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple-tree or an oak. No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well.... Any truth is better than make-believe.... Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode.... The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any.... Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society.... It is life near the bone where it is sweetest.... Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul. Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth (page 331). Such meaty prose exemplifies the uniqueness of genius; these sentences are as individual and as memorable as Thoreau himself. 'They are the man. Others through time have expressed similar ideas, nor has 621 Thoreau a monopoly on integrity, rare indeed though it may be. But it is his sentences which are his own, embracing and quickening all with carefully chosen words. Thus Thoreau attained perennial youth by creating immortal sentences, mirrors of his very self. These he recorded in his journals, polishing, reordering, condensing them later into his lectures and books. And, like everything else about him, Thoreau's theory of composition was uncompromising and noble; the hard, muscular sentences which give his pages their sustained intensity prove how thoroughly he applied his own critical principles of how to write. Some of his statements follow: 1. The one great rule of composition — and if I were a professor of rhetoric, I should insist on this — is to speak the truth. This first, this second, this third: pebbles in your mouth or not. 2. A sentence should read as if its author, had he held a plow instead of a pen, could have drawn a furrow deep and straight to the end. 3. Good writing is conversation folded many times thick. 4. It is the height of art that, on first perusal, plain common sense should appear; on the second, severe truth; third, beauty; and having these warrants for its depth and reality, one may then enjoy the beauty for evermore. Even the sentences which state his theories are themselves "rooted in fact and experience." They ring true when dropped on hard ground. Thoreau's Economics Although Thoreau had a keen sense of humor, he never played at life, which for him was far too serious an affair to be treated lightly. True son of the Puritans that he was, Thoreau in deep moral earnestness felt that the great goal of mortality was to achieve here and now the greatest joy in living fully the precious gift of life. And the best life he considered to be attainable only through self-discipline and education, completely free of any bondage or self-slavery which might violate the most precious freedoms guaranteed to man under the laws of a most benevolent Nature. Thoreau's masterpiece Walden is one of the most self-conscious works of literature ever written. In its first great chapter, "Economy" (see text, pages 473-484), Thoreau makes his position quite clear. He knew exactly what he was doing, and the high price he would have to pay when he pointed out so bluntly to his money-hungry, materialistic contemporaries their selfcreated slavery to worldly possessions. But while they squandered their freedom to seek life's highest goals, Thoreau forcefully exercised his precious freedom to point out their sin, aware that freedom never brings security but opportunity. And for Thoreau the opportunity which freedom granted those who were truly free, was the opportunity to "suck the marrow out of life" and to learn that "life is sweetest nearest the bone." He pointed out how man blunts the finest qualities of his nature by making himself into a machine and because men have willfully turned "luxuries into necessities," and have "become the tools of their tools," their material needs do not serve them but tyrannize them. In fear of this master they have become desperate and cowed. "Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." After remarking that he saw everywhere about him his fellows repenting of their sins in a thousand remarkable and endless ways, Thoreau attributed their self-imposed slavery to tradition and to things. He believed that although "God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages," men are so pressed by economic need that they cannot detect his presence, either within themselves or in Nature. As Thoreau looked at man, man never permits himself time to live, so desperate, so resigned is he: Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow. (See text, page 486. ) If we are divine, and the culmination of God's goodness, "If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains. If the bell rings, why should we run?" In contrast Thoreau advised his fellows to spend their days as deliberately as does Nature, which he himself did at Walden Pond. We must remove or minimize the pressure of material needs by "lowering the denominator," by keeping our accounts on our thumbnails, by learning that we must "simplify! >?! Simplify Only then will our LESSON DEPARTMENT worship of things no longer "cost more than it comes to." Only then will we have freed ourselves of those self-created pressures of materialism, both individually and within our groups, which preoccupy our lives and prevent us from growing in the higher realms wherein our true potentials lie. If the doctrine of self-reliance, about which Emerson wrote so sincerely, was sound, how far could one carry it? The best way to find out was to try — to experiment by eliminating as many non-essentials as possible. 'Therefore, Thoreau built his cabin at Walden Pond that he might test the validity of this theory. Thoreau's Walden exemplifies the complete correspondence between word and deed which Emerson theorized about but did not achieve; in its defiance of traditional opinions and values Walden is self-reliance. 'Throughout its pages Thoreau feared no man's, no group's opinion save his own. In Thoreau's book the only _ true wealth is life, the only luxury worth coveting is the luxury of integrity. No American writer has spoken of integrity as truly as he; consequently, no words are more American than his. He began his "Walden" experiment on July 4, 1845, which he said, "by accident, was on Independence Day." Civil Disobedience In 1839, when but twenty-two years of age, Thoreau wrote in his Journal, "Verily, to be brave is the beginning of victory." We could not expect Thoreau to be anything but independent throughout his life, and so he was. And while his 623 forward, sometimes tart statements of his beliefs often brought him in conflict with some of his contemporaries, constantly he had his reward in knowing that he was free; that never need he doubt whether he served himself or the opinions of others whom he might have cause to fear. Ten years later, in 1849, he published the essay "Resistance to Civil Government," later retitled "Civil Disobedience." From this paper Mohandas Gandhi received his principle of passive resistance which he employed so effectively in India; its influence has been world wide. In this important essay, which represents Thoreau's theory of government, are to be found piercing questions which are neither easy to answer nor to ignore, such as those raised by the following quotations: Can there not be a government in which majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience? Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then? It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience. As Thoreau turned to the world of nature for the lifespring of his thought, so thousands of his readers return to his writings for ideas that may enrich their own. Some of his well-remembered observations follow: 1. As if you could kill time without injuring eternity. 2. Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not 624 only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. 3. There are a thousand hacking at branches of evil to one who is striking at the root. 4. It is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things. 5. The fate of the country... Does not depend on what kind of paper you drop into the ballot box once a year, but on what kind of man you drop from your chamber into the street every morning. 6. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book. 7. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man_ thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. 8. Men will le on their backs, talking about the fall of man and never make an effort to get up. G. Nothing is so much to be feared as fear. 10. The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. 11. Our life is frittered away by detail.... Simplify! Simplify! 12. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. 13. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space which intervene between a man and his fellows. Thus, this man of essential kindness has left through his Walden and other writings, many signposts toward a philosophy of human happiness. 'There are digressions into the flight of geese, the way of rivers, and the sounds of night; but always a superb blending of nature with the life of man. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the relationship between what Thoreau said and how he said it. 2. What points in Thoreau's economic theory are outmoded? Which are still true? 3. Which of his aphorisms appeal most to you?