SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 2 — Divine Law and Human Welfare Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, Objective: To make clear that divine law was made for the benefit and welfare of God's children. E, have discussed in Lesson 1 how, through his Son, God established divine law on earth by which man can attain the full purpose of his creation. Revelation has provided the pattern of human conduct essential to man's perfection. 'The scriptures contain evidence to the effect that every part of the creation by the Lord was for the elevation and welfare of humanity. From sacred literature we learn that God, through his Son, created everything upon the earth — the plants of every variety, all things that live in the water, all life that lives upon the earth and in the air. ",.. And I, God, saw that all these things were good" (Moses 2:25). Then God said to his Only Begotten, "... Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so " (Moses 2:26). Then God gave "them" (male and female) dominion over all of his creations. 'And I, God, blessed them, and said unto them: Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth" (Moses 2:28). The creation was accomplished by divine law and for the benefit of man. "And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally, that is pleasant to the sight of man; and man could behold it " (Moses 3:9). God brought all living things to Adam to be named. He placed "them" in the garden where all the useful and lovely products of creation were in abundance for their use, restricting only the eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, but even in this allowing them the privilege of choice. After their decision to eat of the fruit, thus departing from divine counsel, they were face to face with the great opportunity to subdue the earth and to have dominion over it. But conquering the earth was not the major objective of the creation of man. Conquering himself was his greatest challenge. This was to be accomplished with directions furnished through divine law. In the Image of God It is quite common for us to say Page 625 626 "the boy is the image of his father" meaning his physical appearance. When the scripture quotes the Savior as saying "he that hath seen me hath seen the Father" our thoughts deal basically with the physical image. But the statement in Genesis 1:27, "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them," has a meaning of far greater significance than the physical likeness to the Father, though this feature is very true. "In the image of God" must surely have reference, in some degree, to all of the characteristics and attributes of God the Eternal Father. Some of God's characteristics and attributes are: (1) God knows all things concerning his creations. To man has been given the power to acquire knowledge, to do reflective thinking, and, through the processes of evaluation and reasoning, make decisions, choices, and selections in dealing with the problems of living. Thus, through experience and study, man may progress toward "all knowledge." Joseph Smith tells us that "the mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 353). Mortal life is to provide a training ground for the development of this intelligence. 'The rules governing this development are the divine revelations God has given. (2) God has all power. To man has been delegated the power to act in the name of God as his representative on earth. As man proves himself worthy, the Pniesthood is conferred upon him. As he increases in knowledge and performs with honor the responsibili ties of his Priesthood callings, he can continue his progression toward the power of Godhood. The Priesthood is the power by which worlds were and are created, that is, organized and brought into a related order. 'The Priesthood, therefore, is a creative force entrusted to man in increasing proportions as his progress in righteousness increases. (3) God is love. Jesus said the first and great commandment is to love God, "And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:39-40). We have also been taught that we cannot love God whom we have never seen if we cannot love our fellow men with whom we associate daily. Love is a most powerful force in the universe. It is the only force that can bring peace to the world. No atom or hydrogen bomb is powerful enough to bring peace to mankind. Bombs produce fear, hatred, and prejudice. Love of God and fellow men is the only means of touching the hearts of people so they can live together in peace. (4) Still another divine attribute included, certainly, "in the image of God" is spirituality. It has to do with the operation of the divine influence in the everyday life of an individual. Spirituality is the degree of influence of the spirit of God that is in the heart. From this very brief and limited reference to the intensity and magnitude of the personality and character of God, we may conclude that the image of God referred to in the creation of man includes not only the physical likeness but a potential LESSON DEPARTMENT likeness to all of the many attributes of the Father. With the possession and the expression of these attributes, man is in a favorable position to receive the divine law. The law itself is the direction and guidance that the Father has provided to assist his children in living the full life through stimulating them to the development of their greatest possibilities. Man being the offspring of Deity, he must surely have the potential of Godhood. The Plan of Salvation We have referred to the purpose of the creation of this world as a place designed for the blessings of mankind. We have also seen that the Creator gave to man, as his spiritual offspring, godlike attributes by which he could subdue the world and have dominion over every living thing. This was not a chance arrangement but part of a welldefined plan. God's plan for mankind includes at least three spheres of activity. Of the first or premortal existence, we have limited knowledge. But we do know that God is the Father of our spirits; that these spirits met in a great council in heaven and accepted the Father's plan of action whereby they could attain a physical body and have a chance to develop through the experiences of mortality. All spirits who have been and will be privileged to come to this earth were there. The second phase of the plan deals with mortality. The spirit children receive physical bodies and, at the same time, forget their experiences of the premortal world. Without the awareness of the 627 spiritual experience, man is free to examine, evaluate, and choose that which he will do. However, from the beginning of this earthly activity, the Lord has made available to man his divine will. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:5-14, we are informed that Jesus Christ the Son of God is "the light of truth" and that this light is in all the creation, "even the earth upon which you stand The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things" (D & C 88:10, 13). In Section 130:20-21, it is written that "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." The third phase of the plan deals with life after mortal death. Here again, our knowledge is limited. However, with the manifestations given to modern prophets, the testimony of the scriptures, and the witness of the Holy Ghost promised to the faithful, a life after death is as certain as the fact that night follows the day. Let us look more intimately at the second phase of the plan. Our primary interest in these lessons deals with mortality. We are concerned with the operation of divine law in the growth and development of human beings. In D & C 88:34, we read "And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfect- 628 ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spofford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner ___ - ---------------- JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach - LET NOT YOUR SONG END— Ci LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— Smart ---------ecee-eeeeceeeees LORD'S PRAYER—Gates LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen 30 25 25.20.20 25 Madsen UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Saar - 0e ee -- Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank