pears no vanity, no frivolity, no weakness; 

[Column 2]
all is simple dignity, stern duty, and strict
obedience to principle. In the short space
allowed in a small paper, it is impossible to
elaborate the subject; I will, then, briefly
enumerate some of the principal women;
and at some future time, perhaps, take up
the rest.
	Eve, the sovereign mother of all living!
She stands in close proximity to God the
Father, for she is the life giving spirit of
the innumerable hosts that have figured
upon this earth. The one grand, stupend-
ous act of her life is all that is told of her
in the Bible, and it is enough. Milton
draws her picture with the pen of inspira-
tion:

“Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye;
In every gesture dignity and love!” 

	Sarah, the wife of Abraham, one highly
favored of the Lord, is distinguished by
her truth and faithfulness in all the travels
and changes of their lives. At the time
that the Lord promised her great and sin-
gular blessings, He changed the orthogra-
phy of her name, adding the letter h as the
finale; and placing it in the centre of the
name of Abram, making it Abraham! Of
course He had a purpose in this, though it
is not explained; h is said to be a cabalistic
letter, and if so it denoted increased power
and blessings.
	Hagar is also a remarkable character; her
position and peculiar trials, and her entire
dependence upon God under them, ejacu-
lating, in the fulness of her heart. “Thou
God seest me,” called down to her relief in
the desert an angel of God! Her history
is full of thrilling pathos, and calls out our
richest sympathy.
	The description of Rebecca is very sweet
and womanly, and as a young girl she ex-
hibits a degree of understanding and de-
cision rarely found in mature characters.
She decided at once, after hearing the mis-
sion of the servant of Abraham, who had
been sent to find a wife for his son Isaac,
to accompany him back to his master
Abraham, and she became the wife of Isaac,
and appears to have been an instrument in
the hands of God in bringing about His
purposes with regard to Abraham's poster-
ity, and is ever named as a devoted wife
and mother.
	Rachel next appears; her character is
sweet and gentle. She is the beloved of
Jacob, who served seven years for her—
and they seemed but so many days, for the
love he had for her. Joseph and Benjamin
were her sons, and were an honor to her
and a blessing to their family; Joseph’s
history is grand and romantic, and through
much tribulation he became the Savior of
his father’s house, and a type of the future
that was then in the distance.
	Miriam, the prophet sister of Moses and
Aaron, was a very remarkable character;
her destiny appears to be interwoven in
that of her august brother. When Moses,
as an infant, was hidden, by his mother,
in the bulrushes of the river ftile, to pre-
serve his life from the cruel mandate of
Pharaoh, who had commanded the male
children to be destroyed. Miriam was

[Column 3]
placed by her mother to watch there and, 
Soon the daughter of the King came down
to the river with her maidens to bathe, and
seeing the child she was astonished and
delighted with his beauty, as he smiled
upon her in his sweet innocence. Miriam
then approached, and the princess told her
to go and get a nurse for him, as she meant
to bring him up as her own son. The de-
lighted girl ran for his mother, and she was
taken within the place to nurse and attend
him. Again, Miriam appears in his after
life, when he had been called of God to be-
come the leader and the law-giver of Is-
rael; we find her walking foot to foot, hand
to hand with the servant of God; she ap-
pears in all the grand epochs of that event-
ful pilgrimage of forty years’ travel through
the wilderness; and on one occasion was
called conjointly with her brothers, Moses
and Aaron, by the voice of God! At one
time she erred in her judgment of Moses,
and her punishment was severe; but by
the prayer of Moses she was healed. On
all triumphant occasions it appears that she
took her harp and led the songs of Zion;
and her glorious song of triumph, after the
passage of the Red Sea, is thrilling and in-
spiring, even at this remote date; all de-
note her a noble woman, a priestess and a
prophetess of God.
	The next prominent feminine character is
Deborah; she judged Israel forty years,
and she “dwelt under a palm tree,” and
“the children of Israel came up to her for
judgment.” Barak seems to have full
faith in her prophetic office, and received
the word of the Lord through her lips; but
yet declared that unless she would accom-
pany the army of Israel, he would not go
up; and she answered him, “I will surely
go with thee;” and he went up with ten
thousand men, and Deborah went with
him;” and the armies of Israel prevailed
and were mighty conquerors. Then fol-
lows the sublime song of Deborah; she is
an inspired improvisatrice, and is the leader
in that song—for the Scripture saith., “then
sang Deborah and Barak.” Her character
stands out in bold relief, mighty and irre-
proachable!
	The history of Esther the Queen is a
beautiful illustration of the devotion of wo-
man! Her purity, her filial love for Mor-
decai—who had reared her, she being an 
orphan—and her obedience to his counsel,
and reliance upon his judgment in the
critical circumstances in which they and
their people were placed at that time, are
all beautifully portrayed in the sacred
pages. In this d y of liberty, of freedom
of speech and action, we can hardly judge
of the dangerous situation in which she
was placed; The king, Ahasuerus, was an
absolute monarch; his word was the law,
and he had decreed that no one should ap-
proach him, man or woman, for thirty days!
—death was to be the penalty to any who
presumed to disobey this mandate, unless
the king held out the golden sceptre, as the
emblem of peace. There had been a con-
spiracy raised against Mordecai and his peo-
ple, the Jews, and before the thirty days
they would all have been destroyed. Hence


Mordecai sent to entreat Esther to seek an
audience with the king, and lay before him
the critical circumstances in which they 
were placed. She fasts and prays, and then
she goes forward, with her life in her hand,
saying, “If I perish, I perish!” The king
held out to her the golden sceptre, heard
her story, and her people were saved! 
Vol. 6, March 1, 1878.
