DAVIS STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held in Farmington in the meet-
ing house July 30, 1903, President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, also Presi-
dent John W. Hess and counselors. After
the opening exercises President Grant stated
that she felt honored by the presence of
Sister Bathsheba and Sister Hyde, aslo by
the stake presidency attending the confer-
ence, she felt thankful for the love and es-
teem of the brethren and sisters. Reports
of good work were given from all the branch-
er in the stake except two.
	President B. W. Smith spoke briefly up-
on the reports, expressed her pleasure in
being present and referred to the mother’s
work, that it should be under the Relief So-
ciety and belong to it, stated, “I was present
when the Relief Society was first organized
and think I am the only one living that was
there. I know Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God and that he taught the prin-
ciple of plural marriage.” Sister Smith bore
a strong testimony of this."
President J. W. Hess said "I am de-
lighted with this conference and that we

[Column 3]
have our beloved Sister Bathsheba with us
who was intimately acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph. I want you to know her
words are true and may we profit by them. I
am full of the spirit to bless every body and
to bless my sisters who are laboring in the
Relief Society and we appreciate your labors
and may the Lord bless us all Amen.”
	Counselor Jane Holt in behalf of the
officers, of the society, of Davis Stake pre-
sented President Grant with, a handsome fur,
Counselor Mary S. Clarke placing it on her
shoulders, it was given in honor of her
seventy-first birthday anniversary. The
sisters of Farmington had prepared a sump-
tuous dinner for all in the vestry, 174 sat
down to partake of the bounteous repast.
The banquet was in honer of Sister Susan
Grant and also Sister Helen Miller, as it was
her birthday. Afternoon session, after the
usual exercises was addressed by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde who rejoiced in the celebra-
tion of Sister Grant’s birthday and was also
glad to hear Sister Bathsheba give instances
of the Prophet's life; there are few remain-
ing now that can testify to these things, felt
we should teach our children these truths;
we should take special care in training our
children and give liberally to the poor.
	President Bathsheba Smith read some
notes from Sister Eliza R. Snow's minutes
of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and told of
many instances in the Prophet’s life and
said, “Let us be sure and have the principle
of eternal life dwelling in our bosoms. May
the Lord bless us all.” President Susan
Grant expressed in endearing terms her ap-
preciation of the sisters love and gifts: she
had visited every society in the stake and
found union in their midst. Counselor
Hyrum Grant appreciated the honor shown
his mother and was glad to hear Sister
Bathsheba Smith say she was satisfied with
her labors. Conference adjourned for three
months.
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.

____

