DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.

Saturday October 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dongall, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears, first counselor in the chair in

[Column 2]
the absence of the President, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne; the program was carried
out as follows, after singing and prayer by
the Chaplain Mrs. Margaret P. Young.
Kirtland the first harvest written by Mrs.
I. M. W. Sears, was read by Mrs. Elizabeth
S. Wilcox, and was full of reminiscences
of Joseph the Prophet and of the early days,
and the men and women who laid the foun-
dation of the Church and recalled to mind
many incidents of that period of which so
little is known by our young people.
The hymn, “There’s a feast of fat things”
was sung by the ladies. Mrs. Edna L.
Smith and Mrs. Annie T. Hyde leading.
Elder Nathan Tanner a number of Zion’s
camp then gave from memory in a most
touching style a brief account of the won-
derful company, who went up to Missouri
to redeem Zion. Br. Tanner is now in his
80th year, when he went with Zion’s camp
he was a very young man of eighteen
years, he is the only surviving member of
that heroic band (so far as we know), they
are all gone now, and Br. Tanner alone
survives to tell the story of that remarkable
pilgrimage, one of the most trying and
thrilling in the history of the Church.
The Daughters were fortunate in getting
this personal recital from one who took
part in that memorable journey. The
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a Fire is
Burning,” was sung by the congregation,
and the benedictiou by the chaplain, and
the meeting adjourned for one month. 

Tuesday, November 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at Mrs. Feramorz
Little’s residence, President Alice Merrill
Horne in the chair. Opening exercises
were followed by “Reminiscences from
private Journals” by the President, who
related some of the sad experiences of the
journey from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters
where so many of the Saints succumbed to
the hardships of those perilous times, and
were buried by the wayside, she mentioned
in this connection Sister Susannah Bigler,
mother of our General President of the
Relief Society, who died as a martyr to the
truth in Winter Quarters.
Sister B. W. Smith gave some of her own
experiences and acquaintance with those
who have figured so conspicuously in the
latter-day work. The incidents were very
thrilling and impressive.
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth read a
well written and instructive paper on
“Trials in Missouri,” and “The Prophet
in Chains,” incidents in which some of her
own progenitors participated and which are
almost too terrible to be told, unless one
had the heart of a lion. Mrs. Farnsworth
has an excellent voice, and gave many
points in her narrative in regard to the
sisters’ sufferings during that terrible
persecution. Mrs. John Q. Cannon related an
incident, in regard to the ignominious death
of Governor Ford of Illionis. Meeting was
favored with a solo, “Down by the River’s
Verdant Side,” by Miss Owen, accompanied
on the piano by Miss Clarissa Dougall.
Secretary Miss Lillian Horne read the
minutes which were approved, and meeting
adjourned to December 5, at Mrs. C. F.
Wilcox residence.


