[Column 1]
SERVICE FOR OTHERS. 
"Build ye more stately mansions, O, my soul." 
On one occasion, in a General Conference 
of the Relief Society, some years ago, Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon made the remark that 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in organizing 
the Relief Society, ,'builded better than he 
knew." Possibly, this is a truth. At any 
rate, we who have been working for forty
years and more, along the lines he marked 
out, realize how much the active benevolent 
work, in this same society, ordinary and 
common-place as it may seem to the un-
initiated, has done towards a practical edu-
cation in the best qualities of the human 
character. We all know, if we would stop 
to think of it, that activity along any line 
of thought or emotion; keeps alive the par-
ticular attribute, or sentiment, and, if it be
noble, helps to make life more happy and 
enjoyable, as well as to develop those hid-
den springs of thought, that we term un-
derstanding. We may learn a great deal 
by study, but, if we never apply the 
knowledge we gain, it will fail us; it will 
vanish away, or stagnate; and, of what use 
are all our efforts to have gained by study, 
if there is no opportunity to make greater 
progress by application. 
The Relief Society work is a grand one, 
organized at an early date, almost before 
woman had begun the active life outside 
the home, that is flourishing so widely now; 
and the Sisters in this Society were getting 
an experience in charitable and philan-
thropic endeavors; and developing great 
mentality and spirituality when like soci-
ities were unknown; except such small 
affairs as sewing circles in the church vestry, 
to make clothing for the heathen. 
We who live today, have fallen upon bet-
ter times. Light has come into the world,
and the rapid growth of the higher and 
nobler faculties of mankind, is little less 
than marvelous. What is termed higher 
education today, does not consist alone in 
dead languages, occult sciences, that re-
quire a life time to comprehend, and that 
often result in what the Scripture speaks of 
as "Ever learning and never able to come 
to a knowledge of truth," but, now-a-days, 
we have applied methods along all lines of 
development, from the kindergarten up-
ward and onward. 
The past two years, we might say, there 
has been a greater effort made than ever 
before, to persuade our young women to 
come into the Relief Society work, for their 

[Column 2]
own benefit; and, as one inducement to-
wards it, lectures are to be given in every 
branch of the society, once a month, on 
the training of children, or, what we have 
termed, mother's work. It was thought 
that this was a subject in which every 
young woman would be interested, as, 
naturally, it is the expectation that young 
women will marry and become mothers; 
and great pains havs been taken in many 
of the stakes of Zion, to prepare outlines for 
these lectures, and to make them valuable 
life lessons. It is ardently hoped by those 
who are striving to excel in good works, 
and to help others to do so, that through 
this the Relief Society will increase its 
membership and gain greater influence and 
popularity among the younger members of 
the Church, for the work assuredly devel-
ops the heart and soul. Christ himself, 
the Bible tells us, went about, doing good, 
administering comfort and consolation, al-
leviating the sorrows of humanity; He is 
our pattern, and we should devote and con-
secrate some of our precious time to help-
ing others; the needo, the sick, the unfor-
tunate. These duties strengthen our own 
best characteristics, and, as we come to 
know people in all conditions, we beget 
love in our own souls. We never do a 
kind deed with a pure motive, without a 
corresponding good to ourselves. We may 
not be aware of it, at the time, nevertheless 
it is true; the service we give to our neigh-
bors, to help them along life's rough places, 
or, lead them back, when they have stray-
ed from the right path, is helping us to 
reach that higher plane, to "love our neigh-
bor as ourself," and to apply the golden 
rule. This active assistance of the poor 
and the sick, belongs to the duties of every 
woman of means, and, in an organized 
capacity, much more can be accomplished, 
than by individual doing or giving. Besides, 
women thus associated, lift and develop
each other, by mutual attraction, and, by 
the exercise of that spirit, which actuates 
them in doing good. They grow in ex-
cellence in the better life; they live in the 
expression of higher thought, and nobler 
aims. 
Our older sisters see so much to be done, 
that they feel the younger women must 
come and learn of those things, by practical 
experience; they feel it deep down in their 
souls, for they appreciate what it has been 
to them. 
Faith as a principle, faith in God, faith 
in the Gospel, is increased and cultivated 
by labors of love, and works of benevolence. 
Genuine sympathy for the weak and erring, 
tends of itself to uplift and strengthen 
character, and, withal, to make the world 
better, by ministering in kindly deeds to 
those around us, in temporal as well as 
spiritual things. 
Guided and aided by the Holy Spirit, 
which prompts those who live right, and
listen to the still small voice within, one 
can do much that seems impossible without 
its support. Constant prayer, the prayer 
of the heart, is ever and always uplifting. 
In a society, such as ours, we stimulate 
each other; we learn to express our views 
and opinions, and, our sentiments, on all 
subjects that come before us, and we grow 
into favor with each other, and, into one-
ness. Our Savior said: "unless ye are one 
ye are not mine." We can never be one 
by keeping apart. It is by coming together 
under the influence of the Holy Spirit, that 
we will learn the best lessons of our lives. 

[Column 3]
If the young women of today, desire to 
build up strong characters for themselves
and their posterity; to improve the human 
family, by actual development of both brain 
and muscle, then they must take hold of 
the sober realities of life. 
"We are builders, and each one should 
cut and carve as best he can." 
Every member of the Relief Society is 
given opportunity to aid in the great work 
in which we are engaged, and the best re-
ligion is in doing; in true service. Success 
may not make much show, but, as truly as 
we serve the Lord faithfully, we shall 
reach a higher standard, and, if one give 
loving service to those in need, we shall be 
following in the Savior’s footsteps Think 
of His ministry, and, how little was then 
seen of its results; but how far-reaching 
they were, though unseen, then. We can-
not all do great things, but let us be con-
tent in the sphere we occupy, and be grate-
ful for the blessings vouchsafed to us In 
the days of prosperity, such as this people 
now enjoy, there should be great advance-
ment made, and the work of woman is 
needed. In building character, one needs 
to have the greatest activity, the utmost 
devotion, constant watchfulness, exercis-
ing mental and spiritual power, but, above 
all else, faith, for without it, one can do 
nothing acceptably. 
Paul, in his epistle to the Romans, gives 
many texts applicable in the sisters work 
in the Relief Society. "He that giveth let 
him do it with simplicity;" again, "Dis-
tributing to the necessity of saints; given 
to hospitality." "Be of the same mind 
one toward another. Be kindly affectioned
one to another, in honor professing one 
another."


