		CACHE STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of Cache
Stake was held in Logan, August 18, 1903,
President Lucy S. Cardon presiding. After
the usual opening exercises came the verbal
reports.
	Counselor Rebecca Eames reported the
First Ward of Logan; Margaret Ballard, the
Second Ward of Logan; Julia A. Stewart,
Sixth Ward.
	These reports were excellent and very
encouraging.
	President Cardon then introduced Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
who made a fine address, touching upon all
the important matters in connection with
Relief Society work, home influence, man
agement of children, example and practise
of virtue; felt the sisters who had reported
had the right idea of the Mothers’ Work.
Said, “We are instructed by our president
to encourage the mothers to look after the
children, and if they do this they will not
be responsible if they fail to carry out their
teachings.” Sister Cannon spoke on many
other good subjects.
	Sisters Susan Smith, of Greenville, Chris-
tina Tyre, of Providence, and Sister Lind-
love, of the Seventh Ward of Logan,
each gave fine reports.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Weber
Stake, then addressed the conference “I
have passed through many trials in my life
that I did not choose, but I hope that I,
with you, my sisters, have accepted of
these trials, then we shall be blest, the Lord
will have a tried people, and we can endure
for the blessings.” She spoke of donating,
said it is a blessing to give and related some
of the early experiences of pioneering. Bore
her testimony to baptism in obedience to
the Savior. “We are living in the last
days, and the signs predicted are upon us.
Let us impress our children with a testi-
mony of the Gospel.”
	Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the general officers of the society were
sustained by vote of the conference.
	Sisters Laura Mickleson, of the Fourth
Ward, Sister Larson of the Third Ward,
and Kinnie Caine, of the Fifth Ward, all
gave excellent reports, also representatives
from Benson and Hyde Park reported.
	Sister Adeline H. Barber spoke briefly
and impressivly upon Relief Society work
and the silk interest. Felt grateful that
she had been able to do what she had in
these things; encouraged the mothers in
their labors with the children, knew their
reward would be greater than they antici-
pated. Rejoiced to hear Sister Richards re-
late her experiences of early days.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of neg-
lect of duty and how she condemned her-
self for spending time less profitably; com-
pared the times now with early days in the
Church, said let us be kind to the children
and prepare them for future work, for they
will have hard things to meet. “Twenty-
six years ago President Young organized us
in stakes as a Relief Society to have quart-
erly conferences, the thought to do this
grew out of an invitation I gave him to

[Column 3]
visit us in the Weber Stake and talk to the
sisters. Let us love each other, and never
entertain any hard feelings, the little things
in life avail us much.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon said, “I enjoyed the
sermon Brother Ballard gave us in his solo,
‘Sowing.’ ” She encouraged the sisters to
subscribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
also the storing of grain and urged the
teachers to be faithtul in the performance of
their duties, to be united and charitable one
to another; and teach your sons something
of Relief Society work, that when they go
upon missions and have to organize so-
cieties they will know what is needed; en-
courage a reserve fund if possible in each
society.
	Sister Ann Crookston bore a faithful tes-
timony and spoke beautifully of the work
of training the children.
	Bishop Thomas H. Smith said he had
many reflections during the meeting con-
trasting these times with early days. Spoke
feelingly to the mothers, referred to Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s words, “When you are in
company of the young people use good lan-
guage.” Instructed the mothers to train
their children to pay tithing.
	Counselor Isaac Smith endorsed what
had been said, thought the sisters meetings
the most spiritual ones we had; to him, the
position of a mother, was the grandest to
aspire to. Spoke especially of the remarks
of Sister Cannon, of instructing our boys
and having a little means on hand. Eulo-
gized Bishop Thomas Smith’s example be-
fore the people, felt we should give to all
such flowers while in life.
	President Cardon closed by saying, “Let
us be diligent in all good works, try and
increase our membership and profit by the
teachings of these sisters, Sister Richards,
over eighty years of age and her ripe exper-
iences.
	Conference adjourned.
