CITY OF MEXICO. 
November 7, 1903. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells: 
DEAR SISTER: 
I thought a short description of our trip to 
Ozumba this week would not be uninteresting to 
the readers of the EXPONENT. 
President H. S. Harris and myself left the city 
Wednesday morning to visit the Relief Society 
in Tecalco and Atlantla. They were informed of 
our proposed visit, so made preparations for us. 
The ladies of Tecalco organized, cooked differ-
ent dishes, and carried them to a beautiful little 
grove of pine trees and served a hot dinner on 
plates to fifty-five persons. We had beef, broth, 
rice soup, haha beans, squash prepared in three 
ways, beans in two ways, chili sauce, etc., etc. At 
the conclusion of the meal some of the girls 
favored us with several songs, then we returned 
held our meeting, and went back to Ozumba. 
Thursday morning we took a two-mile walk to 
Atlantla, and found Juana Paez, the local Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, busy in the kitchen. 
She was sitting flat on a ground floor preparing 
string beans for dinner. The fire, that had been 
kindled on the same floor, in the middle of the 
room was blazing up beside her, and the smoke 
would have filled the corn-stock room had there 
been fewer vent holes. 
She has a stove that was brought from the Colo-
nies many years ago, but it is seldom used A 
camp-fire is better for cooking "tortillas" and 
boiling beans, and these are their principal dishes. 
About twelve the members of the Relief Society
began coming in slowly, bringing pic-nic, and we 
were served in the meeting house; at the close we 
reorganized the Society, putting Tomasita Lozala 
in as President, and Juana Paez, the former Presi-
dent, as her second counselor, the first counselor
held her position. That night we returned to 
Ozumba, and Friday morning took the train for 
the city. 
We hold conference in two weeks in Cuerna-
vaca. and fondly hope that some of our Sisters 
from the north will be with us. 
Sister Johnson, the President of the Relief So-
ciety at  Colonia Diaz, Chihuahua, Mexico, has 
been in the city, with her husband, for some time, 
but they were called home last week, however, 
we expect them back in time to join us at the 
Cuernavaca Conference. 
Elders Parry and Foster are assisting President 
Hall in the Cuervanaca branch, and are teaching 
the Saints how to read. 
The Elders and all the American Mormons in 
these parts are enjoying good health. 
With best love to yourself and Sister Smith, 
I am your Sister; 
LEXIA CURTIS HARRIS.
5 a Calle de Humboldt, No. 50 Cindad de 
Mexico.
Mrs. Linda Hull Larned, president of the 
National Household Economic Association, 
returned recently from a four month's Euro-
pean trip.


44   Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.



Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
