LECTURE ON MOTHERS' WORK.

	Hope is one of the first principles of our
religion, hence every young woman that
has been instructed in her usefulness as a
woman when she enters into the marriage
state hopes to become a mother and begins
looking forward with anticipation for the
time when she will realize the fact, then
comes the time for preparation, her thoughts
should be of a spiritual and moral charact-
er, she should try and make things plea-
sant at home, and prepare herself for the
care of a precious charge which has been
intrusted to her. Patience and kindness in
the care of children helps us in our educa-
tion for after life.
	Some mothers think that when they
have seen that the child is fed, dressed,
and its face and hands washed, its wants
have been fully provided for, never think-
ing of the spiritual training that is neces-
sary, and that every moment of the time
that is spent in their presence is building
up their character. These little ones look
upon what father and mother say as gos-
pel and their little minds being unable to
correctly reason they take it all in, there-
fore it is very important that we be very
careful what we say in the home. Home is
 the first and most important school of char-
acter; it is there that every human being
receives his or her first moral training; it
is there that the child imbibes those princi-
ples of conduct which endure through life;
the home makes the man or woman, for
home training not only includes mind and
manners, but character; it is in the home
that the heart is opened, the habits formed,
the intellect awakened and the character
molded for good or evil.
	We must not forget that history will tell
what kind of homes have been kept in this
generation; home training commences from
the time the child has a smile on its face,
we must be careful of our actions from
that time, as the smallest seed sown in the
minds of the children in their home life,
afterwards comes forth to the world; the

[Column 2]
training of any person cannot fail to be in-
fluenced by the moral surroundings of their
early years. The Savior said “Cast thy
bread upon the waters and it shall return
again after many days.” This plainly shows
us what we sow we shall reap; we as Lat-
ter day Saints who profess so much should
have the happiest homes on the earth, we
have been sent here for a wise purpose and
we should make the best of it, this is the
school that is to prepare us for a higher ex-
altation, and let us teach the children that
the good deeds will shine as the stars of
heaven.
	The parent should be constantly on the
lookout to gradually train the little ones
in the work of doing things for themselves;
the mind of the child who has not been
spoiled takes pleasure itf action, in solving
new problems, in developing his resources,
and a skillful parent will fall in with the
workings of nature; but many parents seem
to be afraid to teach their children to help
themselves, the child is watched over and
not allowed to do anything that can be
done for him; things are gathered up after
him, things are put away for him and yet
he is fully able to do it all himself and
would really enjoy doing so, if he had not
been spoiled by over attention; some men
have been so spoiled in childhood, youth,
and early manhood by fond mothers that
they are as helpless as babies about doing
things for themselves; many a woman who
has married a man of this kind is doing
work every day which was cut out for her
by her husband’s mother years and years
before. And mothers are foolish enough to
keep on doing it, the mothers of one gen-
eration are continually making trouble for
the mothers of the next in this way, and
the mothers of girls continually paving the
way for the future unhappiness of their
daughters and their daughters’ husbands
by waiting on their girls too much; a child’s
manners are often a true reflection of his
circumstances and surroundings and who is
responsible for these? not the child certainly.
	We parents should realize that children
should learn to stand on their own feet,
should be taught to develop individuality
and self-help. Have you ever thought of
the fact that the majority of successful men
and women have had to do things for them-
selves when they were young? Each day
brings its trials, troubles, tasks, and pain,
but it also brings its joys, pleasures, satis-
faction, and victories, We are here in the
world, let us live and enjoy the good things
that are before us, there is no man or
woman no matter ho v hard things are going
with them, who cannot find a crumb of
comfort, or a ray of light; patience is the
first, that grace which enables us to bear
affliction and calamities with constancy and
calmness, and a ready submission to God’s
will, first pray then labor.
	Too few mothers recognize the fact that
their childen have certain rights which
should be respected, that among these
rights are a healthy body, a good disposi-
tion, and an intellectual and moral training.
To the extent of her powers a mother
should provide these for her child. I em-
phasize these duties as appertaining to the
mother, since it is she and she alone gen-
erally in whom is vested the important
office of the education of her offspring, the
father may provide and aid his wife, but
he can never take her place in the lives of
his children. The utmost regard for truth,
and abhorence of falsehood should ever be
kept in mind, an open and candid disposition

[Column 3]
ought to be encouraged, and an acknowl-
edged fault rebuked with mildness and then
forgiven, an affable, modest and polite be
haviour should be cultivated, also a lively
and cheerful countenance ; a feeling of
jealousy ought never to be allowed to exist
between children,there should be no marked
preference, the clothing should always
be suited to the season so that exposure to
cold and damp should be avoided, fresh air,
exercise, and cleanliness are essential to
the child, they ought to be constantly
cautioned against hurting themselves with
surrounding objects, and the danger and
pain and bad consequences explained to
them, a child should never be forced to ea
things that it dislikes, over indulgences
should never be allowed, don’t dodge ex-
periences, nor shrink from tests and trials,
character is a structure whose bricks are
experiences. Prosperity and adversity have.
their advantages but be sure and do not
forget from whom .all blessings flow, as the  
twig is bent so the tree is inclined.
