EMERY STAKE.

	The Stake Relief Society conference was 
held in Castle Dale on Saturday, May 13,
1903, President Mary A. Sorensen presid-
ing.
	President Sorensen congratulated the
society on the good attendance. President
R. G. Miller, Counselor Mathis and Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. T. Hyde, Mrs. Jos. F. Smith, and Mrs
L. L. Greene Richards, all of Salt Lake
City, spoke, referring to the buildings and
granaries belonging to the society, and also
of the Mothers’ Work and Nursing Class
about to be introduced in the Relief Society.
	Nine of the wards were represented, each
reported in good condition
	Sister M. T. Smith stated that the Relief
Society stands as the mother of all other
Church associations, being the oldest organ-
ization, and caring for those in distress,
whether they are members or not.
	President R. G Miller thought the mem-
bers were setting their brethren a good ex-
ample. He informed the society upon what
was being done at Wellington in the way
of building granaries.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, first counselor to
President Bathsheba W. Smith, spoke upon
punctuality, prayer, directing aright the
energies of the children, sto[-]ing grain and
caring for the same.
	Afternoon meeting the general board and
stake officers were presented and sustained.
	Patriarch F. W. Young spoke upon the
great work done by the Relief Society, the
influence of mothers and kindness.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King reported
her visit through the south end of the stake
and finding all in good working order.
	Sister L. L. G. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, congratulated President Miller upon
the organization here, and felt pleased to
see such general unity.
	Counselor Mathis and Aunt Jane Wood-
ward also spoke, the latter of knowing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and living to see
many of his prophecies fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read instructions
from President Bathsheba W. Smith, urg-
ing the keeping of children off the streets
at night, and being careful of each other’s
reputations.
	President Sorensen reported the work
done since last conference, urged the young
ladies to join the society and thanked all
those who had contributed to the success of
the present conference.
	After the adjournment an officers’ meet-
ing was held.

____

