EDITORIAL Teaching with testimony, he characterized as the epitome of missionary effort. He outlined the standardized program, mentioning lessons used by the missionaries on: the Godhead; the apostacy; the restoration; 'The Book of Mormon; followed by the teaching of the principles of the gospel and the eternal plan of salvation as they affect the individual lives of all men; the call to repentance; and humility. He pointed cut: There is a feature of this missionary teaching not confined to any one lesson, but running throughout the entire program, which deserves special mention. It is the constant emphasis on the principle that it is the truth. President Richards appealed to the homes visited by the missionaries "to listen with an open mind, and with a measure of patience." He also declared that the consistency of the living of Latter-day Saints will make an invaluable contribution to the missionary program. President Clark expressed gratitude for, ''a sixth sense," which a non-member once referred to in jest as a sense that enables one to beheve Mormonism. He pointed out: This gospel... Has been the same gospel from the beginning, not always understood, not always preached, but it has been the plan of life, salvation, and exaltation from the time it was taught to Adam 1 am happy that we Latterday Saints have blessings and a_ heritage that teaches us the truths of this everlasting gospel. He recounted one by one the marvelous blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints. "We are blessed, I was going to say, beyond all, in out 823 knowledge, our testimony, our witness that Jesus is the Christ." He said in closing: I bear you my testimony again that the authority conferred upon Joseph still is in the Church and that the President of the Church, our great leader, President David O. McKay, is the repository at this moment of all the power and authority that was conferred upon Joseph. At the first session of the conference, President McKay asked that the spirit of unity and oneness might characterize the first session. In his concluding remarks he said: We wish that all within the sound of my voice at this moment, all who have any prejudice in their hearts, might have glimpsed the General Authorities in the House of the Lord last 'Thursday morning, when they met in fasting and prayer to prepare themselves spiritually for the responsibilities awaiting them in this great conference. You would have glimpsed the unity of the First Presidency and through this transmission of heart to heart, soul to soul, you would have known the love I bear for these two counselors, for their clear vision and sound judgment and their patience with their leader when _necessary. You would have glimpsed the unity and love of these twelve men, of their Assistants and of the First Council of Seventy, the Patriarch, and the Presiding Bishopric.. We bless you that the spirit of unity and the spirit of testimony of the divinity of this work may abide in your hearts always, that peace and love may be in your homes as never before, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Truly the entire conference was a feast of the bread of life, and those privileged to attend through the final session left the historic Tabernacle with reluctance, so great had been their spiritual joy throughout the three days. —M. C. S. She Mleaning of, December for Latter-Day Saints N this season of the Christmastide our hearts are turned in greater devotion towards our families and friends, and, in remembrance of the precious gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh which were given to our Savior, we offer gifts to our loved ones, and we remember with greetings of good will our friends and acquaintances. And yet it often happens that in the midst of our Christmas plans, and in our hurry to accomplish our more material desires, we forget the true meaning and the sacred significance of the coming of December. It may be that in our own hurry and confusion, we have neglected to teach our children the difference between the festivities associated with Santa Claus and the exchange of gifts, and the reverent remembrance of the season in which we observe the birthday of our Lord. It may be that the message of good will and salvation which fell long ago upon the Palestinian hills has not become an integral enough part of our own lives, and so the earth's greatest heritage may be in danger of being lost to our children. For Latter-day Saints, the time of Christmas has a particular and a precious import, an additional significance which should increase our thoughtful devotion and give a spiritual illumination to these days of winter. On the twenty-third day of December in 1805, there was born to Joseph Smith and his wife Lucy, in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, a son whom they named Joseph, a boy destined to receive for himself Page 824 and for all the people of the earth, a divine reaffirmation of the mission of the Lord Jesus, and the Father's design for the eternal progress of his children. Feeling within his heart that the Heavenly Father would answer prayer and give wisdom, as ls promised in the Epistle of James, young Joseph, in his fifteenth year, prayed earnestly for direction in his desire to affiliate with some religious organization. 'The answer was glorious beyond any expectation: When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17) This spirit of trust in the Heavenly Father, and in the Father's willingness to draw close to one who sought his guidance, became, in the illuminated years that followed, a directing principle of the restored Church. For it was given to Joseph Smith to re-establish upon the earth the eternal concept of the nature of God and the mission of his Son, Jesus the Christ. It was given to Joseph Smith to witness to the world that the heavens had been opened to him, and he had seen the Father and the Son. Belief in a personal God and adherence to the gospel as practiced in the primitive Church had been lost in the long intervening centuries. The ancient truth, the everlasting ordinances, and the power of the Priesthood were restored to the earth through Joseph Smith, and thus his own generation and the generations fol- EDITORIAL lowing the life of the Prophet, were given the light of the living gospel and a true knowledge of the meaning of the coming of Jesus to the earth. Thus Christmas and the month of December have a meaning far beyond the holly wreaths and evergreens; far beyond the carols and the anthems; far above the radiant windows of the chapels. For these are but the reflected glow in the shadows of earth. The great illumina- 825 tion is the sure knowledge of the mission of Jesus who has prepared for us an eternal home. Now what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth... Glad tidings of great joy And again what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets (D. & C, 128:19-20). —V. P. C. <<