Right After Christmas Ida M. Pardue AKE time out after the excitement of Christmas to give a different kind of social. This is an afternoon of sharing memories—with each person telling her oddest. Funniest, or most vivid Christmas memory. Memories? Everyone has them. Yourself, for instance. Wasn't there ever a Christmas that was particularly gay—or sad? How did you feel when you learned that Santa Claus did not honor your home just in December—but lived there all year round? Remember the present of a wiggling puppy that had to be chased all over the room after knocking down the tree? Once started, you'll be surprised at the eagerness with which someone will say, "Oh, that reminds me.!" and they'll all be off. The storytelling begins as soon as guests are comfortably settled with refreshments. Kecp them simple. Provide a good beverage (hot chocolate is good), a plate of dainty sandwiches, and perhaps some cookies or fruitcake. A dish of nuts and candy would be welcome, too. Arrange the food buffet style before the guests arrive. For a centerpiece, stand a single red or green candle in an apple, with a sprig of greenery on either side, or tuck a few brightly colored bulbs into a pine bough. A shallow dish piled with an assortment of ornaments makes a gay centerpiece, also. Page 826 ' RIGHT AFTER CHRISTMAS 827 SANDWICH SUGGESTION Cream cheese spread on rounds of brown bread, or date-and-nut bread, both of which come in cans and are quite inexpensive, is delectable. So are deviled egg fingers— made by spreading devild egg mixture on a slice of bread with crusts off, then cutting the slice into three lengths. Or cut the slices crosswise into four triangles. The hostess starts the storytelling. After that someone will probably voluntarily continue. Be prepared to hear some amazing tales. In one such group a very popular girl stunned listeners when she said she had never known a real Christmas. Reared by a maiden aunt who considered Christmas "foolish," this girl had never eaten a holiday dinner, never enjoyed a decorated tree, and never received a gaily wrappd gift. Another girl fascinated the same group with a vivid description of the tree decora. Tions cherished for generations in her family. Handmade in Sweden, the ornaments had been brought to America by her grandparents and were as much a part of the Yule celebration as St. Nick and mince pie. Refill chocolate cups and pass the sandwich plate between tales. By the time everyone has spoken, you'll find many minutes have flown on swift wings—that your afternoon has itself become a memory—one which you may want to repeat every year thereafter, perhaps even with the same guests. Gift (Wrapp ing Elizabeth Williamson A very attractive