[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 115 | General Feature | Hobbies— Handicraft for Bazaars | ]
[Hobbies— Handicraft for Bazaars]

Then she carefully replaces the stuffing and sews the animal together. Oftentimes an ear or an eye is missing and she carefully replaces it. The animals are just like new when Sister Lach finishes working on them—an unbelievable sight when seeing the objects "before" and "after." Many times a doll may have an arm or a leg missing. She finds other old dolls which have a matching leg or arm and replaces the missing one. She cuts, shampoos, and styles the hair of the dolls so they look beautiful. The doll is scrubbed from top to bottom and any other repairs that are needed are done. Then Sister Lach, with her ingenuity and great talent in sewing, dresses these dolls. They resemble a "Paris" creation when she is finished. They are beautiful to behold. The clothes are so lovely that they are just as attractive as those on a newly purchased doll. 116 Made-Over Dolls 

117 February 1969

 For stuffed animals: Step. 1. Remove all felt trims, such as eyes and tongues. Save for use as a pattern. Step 2. Open a seam large enough to insert your hand, and remove the stuffing, saving it for use later. (Toys which are labeled "completely washable" or stuffed with shredded foam, may be put in the washing 'machine and the filling need not be removed.) Wash the entire outer form in good hot soapsuds. Rinse in clear water. Shake well, and hang out to dry in a warm place and fluff out the material occasionally while drying. Step 3. Pack all the stuffing back in the toy, starting with the legs and head. Then pack the body well, supplementing the stuffing with upholster's cotton, as needed, until the toy is firm. Step 4. Sew up the opened seam and brush the fur. Cut new tongue and eye pieces from felt and glue them in place with fabric glue. Many hours of labor go into such a project, but it is indeed a labor of love, a love and desire to do something for others, a desire to bring happiness and beauty into the lives of little children. This Sister Lach does by giving these animals and dolls to children. WAITING I'm sitting in my big arm chair Passing the time away, Nothing seems to change It's the same from day to day. I'm sitting quietly by Counting the hours till night, There's nothing I can do But wait for the waning light. My strength is almost gone I can hardly leave my chair, Will I rise tomorrow To wait by the window there? It's beautiful outside, dear, But leaves ride on the wind. The ground is thick with gold now And the branches thinned.