[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 120 | General Feature | Grandmother and the Stockings Mada | W. Stanger]
— Carmen Daines Fredrickson 118 "~~ ee Grandmother ( Mada W. Stanger } and the Stockings onal me @ I remember Grandmother's visits! How we looked forward to her coming! These visits were not too frequent, and only once in awhile did she stay all day or overnight. Grandma is just a little woman, but her love and sweet personality are just the reverse of her size. We loved to see her come, because of her love and kindness. No grandmother could have shown more love for grandchildren than she showed us. Now the vears have rolled along, and Grandmother is getting older. Her little body is getting frail, and she is not as active as she used to be. But as long as I live I shall remember Grandma and the stockings. There were eight growing, active, healthy children in our familv. We lived on a farm, and there was always plenty to be done. All the girls were taught the art of homemaking at an early age by our sweet mother, as we cooked for hay men, put up fruit. Sometimes, it was necessary for the girls to help Father and the boys with the farm work. Mother worked so hard to do her many household tasks, but like many others, night came before her work was done. One task that we all seemed to save until we had more time was darning the stockings. Mother would put them in a little wire basket that folded flat when empty. Each washday the basket and the stack of stockings for ten people would grow and grow. We all learned how to darn stockings, but all too often when we sat to darn, we could make only a small dent in the stockings before we left the job unfinished. And so the basket bulged. Then Grandmother would come to visit! After rearing a large family herself, she knew of the many things a mother often leaves undone and always offered to help. Somehow or other, she would always find her way to the stocking basket. Her loving hands would darn and darn while she visited with Mother, until the basket would fold flat, and our own individual stocking bags were filled with neatly darned stockings. And we appreciated her helpful talent. I must honestly admit that when I knew Grandma would be there, I secretly hoped if she had the time, she would help us conquer the stockings. Now, as I hurriedly darn my family's few stockings that need darning these days, I lovingly remember, with a smile, the days Grandmother came to visit, and the basket full of stockings waiting to be done! SS ON A STORMY NIGHT Save me a summer, I cried, In the storm's midnight, In the mountain's domain, And keep me a dream intact From the scolding thunder, From the lightning's obliteration. Keep for me beyond the dark zenith Always a dawn in reply. —Dorothy J.