[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 145 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Doctrinal Instructions | Roy W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living— Doctrinal Instructions Roy W. Doxey]

When night came the mother tried again to smooth away the 

145 February 1969

 anger and hurt, but the boy could not forget his broken toy. She explained again how important it is to forgive. "I told him I forgave him," he replied sullenly. Are words enough? What must take place in the heart, mind, and behavior of both the offender and offended? And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess thou shalt be reconciled. (D&C 42:88.)... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matthew 5:44.) Give to him that asketh of thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. (Matthew 5:42.) And be kind one to another....(Ephesians 4:32.) In these words of Jesus, the apostle Paul, and the words of the Lord given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, we see that more is expected than just the sentiment and expression of forgiveness. It is not enough to say, "I forgive." To "love," "bless," "do good," "pray," "give," and "be kind" demand not only an attitude of forgiveness toward the other person, but action. "Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed." (Shakespeare, Richard II, Act I, Scene I.) Repentance and forgiveness are the first essential steps, the necessary states of mind and heart which prepare the way for reconciliation. The next step requires great courage. One must take the offending one into a private session and work out the problem. Many misunderstandings can be erased, if we are wise, tactful, and loving. In addition reconciliation is reciprocal. One must confess, the other forgive, and both must enter into a loving, harmonious relationship. Jesus drew the pattern for us in the story of the prodigal son who "... When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." (Luke 15: 20.) The sin, then, is to be forsaken and forgiven; the hurt assuaged; the pattern of loving friendship and companionship resumed. "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.)