[Vol56 | February 1969 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Marriage, Julie Wilson]
Of  Man  and  God,  Alda  L.  Brown  146;  Marriage,  Julie  Wilson  157;  The  Mountains  Cry,  Renata 
W.  Sukys  158;  The  Silver  Song,  Beulah  Huish  Sadleir  158;  Jacaranda  Tree,  Bernice  Ames  159; 
Spring  Waits  Close,  Linnie  Fisher  Robinson  159. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  day  Saints  ■  1969 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office;  76  North  Mam  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111, 
Phone  364  2511:  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20e  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not 
sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report 
change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  m  section 
1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
83

According  to  the  Law  of  Heaven 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Officers  Meeting  of  the  Annual  General 
Relief  Society  Conference,  October  2,  1968.1 
■  I  am  happy  to  be  here,  Sister 
Spafford.  I  have  enjoyed  this 
meeting  very  much.  I  feel  right 
at  home.  This  lovely  chorus  from 
Rigby  has  thrilled  us  with  their 
lovely  music  and  I  feel  as  if  I 
were  part  of  the  Rigby  Stake. 
Although  I  have  never  lived 
there,  I  did  once  court  a  girl  who 
lived  in  Rigby,  and  I  met  my 
wife  just  a  few  miles  from  there, 
up  at  Rexburg.  I've  always  felt  I 
was  a  part  of  that  great  upper 
Snake  River  community.  I  com- 
mend them.  When  Sister  Wite- 
hira  offered  the  invocation,  I 
remembered  the  assignment 
given  to  me  by  President  McKay 
to  organize  the  Auckland  Stake. 
That  was  back  in  1958,  I  believe. 
He  had  invited  Sister  Romney 
and  me  to  go  to  the  dedication 
of  the  New  Zealand  Temple.  He 
told  me  he  would  expect  us  to 
tour  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  on 
the  way  home.  We  were  sitting 
in  the  Auckland  chapel  one  day 
after  the  dedication,  when  Presi- 
dent McKay  said,  "Brother 
Romney,  I  want  you  to  stay  here 
and  organize  the  Auckland  Stake, 
the  first  stake  south  of  the 
equator  in  this  dispensation." 
I  remembered,  too,  that  about 
the  fifteenth  of  August  of  this 
year  I  was  in  the  Auckland  air- 
port where  I  nearly  froze.  Sister 
Romney  and  I  were  on  our  way 
to  Australia. 
When  Sister  Dawson  spoke,  I 
remembered  that  we  were  in 
Perth  holding  conference  on  the 
twenty-fourth  of  August,  just 
the  other  day.  There,  at  Freman- 
tle,  we  looked  out  over  the  Indian 
Ocean — and  we  did  more  than 
that — we  flew  over  it — between 
5,000  and  6,000  miles.  It  is  quite 
a  pond  of  water.  Our  destination 
was  Johannesburg,  South  Africa. 
When  this  dear  sister  from 
South  America,  Sister  de  Mella, 
gave  her  talk  in  Spanish,  it 
thrilled  me  again,  because  for 
ten  years  Sister  Romney  and  I 
have  been  working  with  the 
Spanish-speaking  people  in  Cen- 
tral   America,    Mexico,    and    on 
84

According  to  the  Law  of  Heaven 
this  side  of  the  border.  And,  of 
course,  I  have  met  Sister  Spafford 
before.  We  labored  together  for 
many  years  in  the  welfare  work, 
and  now  I  am  an  advisor  to  the 
Relief  Society.  So  I  feel  at  home 
here.  I  hope  I  can  continue  to  so 
feel  and  that  I  can  deliver  the 
message  I  have  prepared,  under 
the  spirit  that  we  have  enjoyed 
here  this  morning. 
In  the  meeting  of  March  17, 
1842,  in  which  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  organized  the  Relief 
Society,  it  is  reported  that  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor  said  he  "re- 
joiced to  see  this  institution 
organized  according  to  the  law  of 
heaven."  (Rehef  Society  Minutes, 
March  17,  1842,  page  8.) 
In  their  invitation  to  me  to 
speak  here  today,  the  Presidency 
of  the  Relief  Society  expressed 
the  wish  that  I  speak  to  these 
words  of  President  Taylor.  It  is 
rather  a  narrow  subject,  and  so 
it  took  considerable  preparation. 
But,  since  I  am  the  junior  ad- 
visor to  the  Relief  Society,  a 
suggestion  by  the  Presidency  is, 
of  course,  a  command  to  me.  I 
shall  therefore  do  my  best. 
PRESIDENT  TAYLOR  RECOGNIZED 
POTENTIAL  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
To  begin  with,  I  want  to  say 
that  I  do  not  believe  President 
Taylor's  statement  was  lightly 
made.  I  think  his  words  were 
carefully  chosen  and  deliberately 
spoken.  I  am  further  persuaded 
that,  in  addition  to  his  witness 
that  the  Prophet  had  organized 
the  Relief  Society  "according  to 
the  law  of  heaven,"  he  had  a  pro- 
found understanding  of  the  signi- 
ficance of  what  had  been  done.  I 
think  he  rather  fully  realized 
the   potentialities   of  this   great 
organization,  and  that  he  did, 
in  fact,  rejoice  in  its  organization 
according  to  the  law  of  heaven. 
In  support  of  this  thesis,  I 
call  your  attention  to  the  fact 
that  he  had  a  great  intellect, 
which  through  hard  work  and 
diligent  study  he  had  trained 
and  disciplined;  and  that  he  had 
a  profound  understanding  of 
law,  particularly  the  law  of 
heaven  which  he  equated  to  the 
law  of  the  gospel. 
Concerning  his  mental  capac- 
ity. President  Brigham  Young 
paid  him  this  tribute: 
With  regard  to  Brother  John  Taylor, 
I  will  say  that  he  has  one  of  the  strong- 
est intellects  that  can  be  found.  He  is  a 
powerful  man,  and  we  may  say  that  he 
is  a  powerful  editor.  But  I  will  use  a 
term  to  suit  myself  and  say  that  he  is 
one  of  the  strongest  editors  that  ever 
wrote.  (The  Gospel  Kingdom,  Introduc- 
tion to  Book  I,  Compiled  by  Homer 
Durham.) 
That  is  a  great  tribute  from 
President  Young. 
With  respect  to  John  Taylor's 
training  and  his  self-disciplining, 
a  brief  resume  of  his  life  will 
testify. 
John  Taylor  was  born  Novem- 
ber 1,  1808,  in  Westmoreland, 
England.  He  was  christened  in 
the  Church  of  England  and  he 
early  exhibited  religious  tenden- 
cies. B.  H.  Roberts  says  in  his 
Life  of  John  Taylor,  that  he 
.  .  .  possessed  a  portion  of  the  spirit  of 
God.  .  .  .  Manifestations  of  its  presence 
were  frequent,  not  only  in  the  expan.sion 
of  his  mind  to  understand  doctrines  and 
principles,  but  also  in  dreams  and  visions. 
"Often  when  alone,"  he  writes,  "and 
sometimes  in  company,  I  heard  sweet, 
soft,  melodious  music,  as  if  performed 
by  angelic  or  supernatural  beings."  When 
but  a  small  boy  he  saw,  in  vision,  an  angel 
in  the  heavens,  holding  a  trumpet  to  his 
mouth,     sounding     a     message     to     the 
85