[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 160 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
Relief Society Activities Korean Mission Conference Creates Central and Southern Districts, August 26, 1968 Top picture, front row, center (in black dress): Soon Sung Kim, President, Southern District Relief Society; to her right: Boo Yun Kim, First Counselor. Second row, second from left: Sun Pyo Pak, Second Counselor; (in plaid dress): Rosemarie Slover, Supervisor, Korean Mission Relief Society. The second picture includes many of the same sisters during a testimony meeting at the conference in Pusan. Sister Slover reports: ''At our general district conference, the mission was divided into the Central and Southern Districts. All sisters of the new Southern District were invited to attend one of the meetings, and the spirit present was truly wonderful. 'Most of the sisters are new in positions of leadership, but they have a strong desire to serve and a testimony of the importance of the work they will be doing."' 4 Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society Makes Satin Pillowcases Virtue O. Spackman and Blanche H. Ellis working on satin pillowcases for North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Orders could not be filled fast enough for the lovely satin pillowcases which were Relief Society's contribution to the building fund in the North Ogden Third Ward of our stake. Over $250 has been added to the building fund, plus $100 to the Relief Society treasury through this project. ''The pillowcases are not only beautiful, the members of the ward report that they contribute to soft, restful sleep, and protect the ladies' hairdos." 132 Fort Worth Stake (Texas) Singing Mothers Join Large Group for ''Hemisfair Performance"' August 9-10, 1968 Lucille W. Molen, President, Fort Worth Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Thirtythree sisters from the Fort Worth Stake joined the large combined group of Singing Mothers who performed at the 'Hemisfair' in San Antonio, Texas, in August. The sisters began rehearsing in April for this event. Margaret Porter directed the group, and they were accompanied by Joan Wooley. Director of the combined groups was Montess A. Anderegg. The sisters expressed appreciation for this opportunity and felt that it was a worthwhile and inspirational activity. 'Our stake was organized last September and we are working very diligently to get the Magazine in each home. We love it dearly."' Western States Mission Relief Society Presidency Holds Conference Left to right: Mildred Rose, Education Counselor, Western States Mission Relief Society; Edith Hall, Homemaking Counselor; Carrell Thorpe, President; Arline M. Scott, Supervisor; Janet Luke, Secretary. Sister Scott reports: ''Each year the presidency of the Western States Mission Relief Society visits each of the five districts in the mission and holds a conference on Saturday and Sunday. This year, as in previous years, instructions concerning Relief Society procedures were discussed. District fashion shows were held, and many items which could be used for bazaars were demonstrated. '"'A Singing Mothers chorus from each district sang at the conferences, and reviews of the past year's work were given by the officers of the district boards. ''We feel that these conferences benefit Relief Society in the mission very much, and we enjoyed them also." Italian Mission Holds First Relief Society Conferences May 11, 18, June 8, 1968 Members of the Italian Mission Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Chiara Banchetti, First Counselor; Wanda Duns, Supervisor; Marilee Swift, President; Joanne Gerstner, Second Counselor. Sister Duns reports: ''Four Relief Society conferences were held in the Italian Mission to insure that all sisters of Relief Society would be able to attend at least one session. The sessions were held in Palmero, Sicily; Milan; Pisa; and Taranto. ''President Duns and I were able to attend three of these meetings and address the sisters. Approximately twenty sisters attended each meeting. "At each conference there was a discussion period, a luncheon prepared by the mission Relief Society presidency, addresses by the presidency, a demonstration of homemaking meeting ideas, and a bazaar featuring the lovely handwork of the Italian sisters."' North Sevier Stake (Utah) Board Contributes To ' Success of the Relief Society Program North Sevier Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Aldena A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Arnelda M. Poulson, Second Counselor; Bernice M. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Wilma H. Sorensen, President. Standing, left to right: Ora C. Mason, visiting teacher message leader; Thula Nielsen, homemaking leader; Leona J. Mickelsen, spiritual living class leader; LaVerde S. Gurney, Magazine representative; Melva N. Johnson, social relations class leader; Joyce Gronning, cultural refinement class leader; LaJuana Bastian, organist; Billie Lou Johnson, chorister. Sister Sorensen reports: ''These sisters have been faithful in furthering the success of Relief Society in our stake. They serve devotedly and attend the required meetings regularly. We have a lovely board room which was decorated and furnished by contributions and stake board funds. It also serves as a garment distribution center, managed by the president and assisted by other willing Relief Society workers."' South Box Elder Stake Honors All Who Have Served on the Stake Board, August 14, 1968 Front row, third from left: Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; fourth: Helen Bunnell, former president. The remaining sisters are current and past members of the stake board. Sister Nebeker reports: ''A dinner honoring all those who had served on the Relief Society stake board since 1963 when the stake was organized, was held. The occasion was to reveal a history book compiled recently. 'Included in the history book were pictures and write-ups of socials, special accomplishments, programs from conferences, and other events, and statistical data. "We felt that getting together to see the history book would be a pleasant interlude for the sisters. One of the highlights of the book is a personal history sketch of each sister who served on the stake board. It was a most pleasant and successful evening." New York Stake, West Point Branch Relief Society Unique in Locale and Activities Members of the West Point Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Turek; Mary Blackham; Lois Hobson, Second Counselor; Myrna Redd; Polly Jordan, First Counselor; Joyce Mumford, President; Penny Lockard; Kaye Palmer; Elaine Bons. Ada H. Miller, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The West Point Branch Relief Society, though newly organized and consisting of only nine members, is productive and active. On May 10, 1968, they held a spring social consisting of a cruise down the Hudson River. "Their unique location affords them interesting fund-raising possibilities. The corsages worn by the sisters are colorful chrysanthemums which are in great demand during the football season when the Army team meets its opponents. The wall hangings are actual miniature reproductions of the uniforms worn by cadets at the United States Military Academy. ''We are inspired by the devoted manner in which these sisters carry out the functions of Relief Society." ue AC SPUREEt A!: < FR =e ar aN RET ERENT rca RTIOT MALIN" VAY? OT We er es AC oo Alabama Stake ''Fashions For All Seasons'' Show August 24, 1968 Left to right: Kathleen Nelson; Linda Mattle; Sue Drake; Delores Hazzard. Donalee A. Beazer, President, Alabama Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme of our annual fashion show was 'Fashions for All Seasons.' The four sisters in the picture are our fashion coordinators, one commenting for each season. They are wearing dresses from the same pattern, styled to their particular season. "There were 124 outfits modeled by seventy-nine participants, including husbands and children. We feel that our fashion shows are great incentives to encourage the women and girls in the stake to develop sewing skills. We are very proud of the fine workmanship in the clothes demonstrated in these shows." Juab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Marks Centennial With Unique Program, June 22, 1968 Left to right, sisters who have served as presidents of Juab Stake Relief Society: Martha C. Eagar; Lyle C. Pratt; Lua L. Stephenson; Chole N. Bailey; Edna J. Cazier; Blanche B. Brough, current President. Sister Brough reports: ''Our stake observed its centennial anniversary with a unique program. The program included a dramatization of several important historical events in the stake. The script was written by Sadie H. Greenhalgh and was taken from actual minutes and testimonies. "The Singing Mothers sang several appropriate numbers during the program. An original banner made by Relief Society sisters in 1868 was on display. Colorful display tables with pictures, relics, and histories covering the 100 years were a popular and much appreciated attraction. "A delicious buffet luncheon was served and it was a time of rejoicing and reflecting back to the marvelous work of the sisters who came before us. We shall go forth with renewed zest to carry forth our part of the heritage. "There were five of the past fifteen presidents who have served since 1868 present at the celebration. We were also honored to have Sister Fanny S. Kienitz of the Relief Society General Board present at our celebration."' Bn AS aD Roy North Stake (Utah) Presents ''A Call To Benevolence'"' To Honor First Anniversary of Stake Relief Society July 11, 1968 Front row, fourth and fifth from left: Mabel G. Peterson, President, Roy North Stake Relief Society; Arlene Cheever, First Counselor. Third row, at left: Nina Chappell, Secretary-Treasurer. The remaining sisters are members of the stake board and ward presidencies and secretaries. S

ister Peterson reports: ''Commemorating the first anniversary of the Roy North Stake Relief Society, and in appreciation of the wonderful work accomplished by the wards during the year, the Relief Society presidency entertained members of the stake board and the ward presidencies and secretaries at a luncheon. Following the luncheon, members of the stake board presented 'A Call to Benevolence.' " SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 96—Doctrinal Instructions Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 130:8-23; 131:5-8.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith made observations upon the public and private remarks of member and nonmember. One time Orson Hyde gave his views on various gospel subjects which called forth corrections by the Prophet. At another time the Prophet corrected some statements made by a Methodist preacher. These corrections have provided the Church with some important doctrinal instructions contained in Sections 130 and 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants. KNOWLEDGE Latter-day Saints believe in many scriptures which emphasize the need to acquire knowledge. Important among these are the following: It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.) 140 Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. (D&C 130:18-19.) Since the purpose of life is to understand and live the laws which ultimately give salvation (eternal life), then salvation knowledge is the most important part of learning. If one lacks knowledge of the Savior, the atonement, how to accept the atonement for individual salvation, and also the Church which represents the Lord for salvation, it is impossible to be saved. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co.; 2d ed. Rev., 1949, Vol. V., p. 387 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHCI.) The person who fails to live gospel teachings degenerates in knowledge. (DHC 4:588.) On the other hand, as one studies by faith, his concepts of God and eternity are enlarged, and his power to do good Is increased. (D&C 88:118; Alma 12:9-11; DHC 2:8.) Essential salvation knowledge to be learned by the saint is that which pertains to the preservation of his membership in the Church. The revelations give ways by which one may not be deceived by every wind of doctrine. The Latter-day Saint is well grounded in the path of safety when he accepts the following truth: Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation. (D&C 52: 9, 36.) The revelations are true for they come from the Giver of all truth. Knowledge pertaining to this life only, is insufficient for salvation. We must learn not only how to overcome our sins here, but we must, as the Prophet Joseph Smith says in the following quotation, learn how to triumph over evil in the world to come: Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet.