[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 107 | Fiction | Common Ground | Lynne Partridge]
[Common Ground Lynne Partridge]

had set an egg-beater in the middle of it and given it half a turn.

"No," Mama said. "At twenty-five cents apiece and me with five girls? I make my own, out of newspaper. I pin them on, of course, till they are right before I cut into the cloth. It's easy, Etta. You just . . ."

"I would never dare! I'll borrow a pattern from Annie, but I've got to get at it." She looked discontentedly around our dining room. "I declare! I don't know how you get over the ground with seven kids and farm help to do for. Me, with only one child, and I'm on the run every minute."

Mama thought that over as if it was news to her. "I do have a lot to do, don't I?"

When Etta was gone Mama looked after her with approval. "There's a woman who never diddle-daddles. Here it is only eight and she has her dishes done and her beds made and she knows exactly what she is going to do every minute of this day. I admire a woman like that."

Etta was hitching along down the path, giving a little jerk about every third step. She seemed to be hurrying, but was going up and down and from side to side as much as she was going forward. When Mama walked she didn't seem to hurry, but I had to run to keep up.

"Mama, when are we going to make my Fourth dress?" I asked. I just ached for her to say "right now."

"Why, child! It's only May."

"I know, but Etta is starting Eunice's dress right now."

"I'll think about it," Mama said. Sometimes Mama thought

about a thing a whole month, and the night before the Fourth she was almost always up till two or three finishing dresses for us girls, but somehow they were always laid out on the beds in plenty of time before the celebration. "Right now I am going to make a cake. You girls get at your work."

It was my week to wash dishes. Jennie and Lucy were already making beds. Mary was sweeping the kitchen—not very well, because the broom was taller than she was. What made it worse was that Lalla was right in the middle of the sweepings with her little broom "helping" by sweeping busily in every direction.

Before Mama could make a cake she found she had to go after eggs, because we'd eaten so many for breakfast. "I'll be gone just a minute," she whispered, and slipped out the back door. Lalla had turned. Lalla was a nuisance in the chicken coop.

"Mama?" said Lalla, missing her.

"Mama's gone bye-bye," I said calmly, and she accepted it, went back to her sweeping.

Mama wasn't back in a minute, as she thought she would be. When I wiped off the kitchen table I saw her feeding the chickens from the granary door, and knew she had argued it was easier to gather eggs while they were eating, but later she was cleaning out the chicken coop. Now she would want me to get the wheelbarrow and put the fertilizer on her flower bed. I'd get out of that job if I could!

Sometimes we stopped working when Mama was not in the house, at least until we saw her coming

108

A Day for Diddle-Daddling

back, but Etta had stirred us up with shame and we kept on. I made a little bet with myself that I would finish the dishes before Mama came back with the eggs, and I won, even though washing dishes for twelve people, counting Papa, Johnny, and Tom, and the three hired men took just hours and hours. On top of that there was the cream separator and the milk buckets and the strainer, and all of them had to be scalded.

Janie wanted me to finish because she didn't want to mop the kitchen floor until I quit spilling dishwater on it, and I didn't blame her. We were at that time using separated milk to mop the floors because Mama had read somewhere that it made them shine, and it did, but it made the mop sour, so I was glad when she gave up that idea.

It was nearly noon when Mama got back to the house, and when she came in she was only to get a rag to be dipped in bluing to mark the thirteen eggs she had in her apron.

"That old hen wants to set," she said by way of explanation, "and all I could find was enough eggs." Mama always used thirteen because if one spoiled she would have a dozen chicks. "What day is it today?"

We got the calendar and figured out when the hen would come off in twenty-one days, but while Mama was fishing in the rag bag to find a scrap she could spare for the bluing, she ran onto something else.

"Well, I never!" she said. "Here is that crepe de chine I lost last summer."

She pulled it out, somewhat worse for the wrinkling, but it was pretty for all that. "I meant to make me a waist out of it, but there was too much and I didn't want to spoil it." She looked at the pink pile in her hands, then measured it off from her fingertips to her nose. "I do believe there's enough for your Fourth dress in this piece, Callie."

I stood stock-still, afraid she would change her mind.

"What's the matter, Callie? Don't you like it? It will be beautiful when it is pressed."

"Mama, I love it," I breathed.

"Well, all right, then. Here, Jennie. You mark these eggs and then you and Lucy go out and set the hen."

"Mama, I'm scared. She'll peck at me. I never set a hen before."

"Well, you can't learn any younger," said Mama. "Just pick her up by her back."

She didn't even notice that Jennie had turned white as a sheet. I would have offered to show Jennie how, except that I was afraid I would break the spell and Mama would think of something else to use that material for. "Shall I get the catalogue?" I asked.

"Yes, do," she said. "We'll pick out a pattern. I do hope we have some thread to match it."

We got the newspapers out and looked through the catalogue. The prettiest dress had puffed sleeves and a scalloped overskirt and a sash. "Oh, Mama! That's the dress I want. Can you make that one?"

Mama considered it for just ages, I thought. "I think so," she finally said. "If we use some batiste for the top part of the under-

109

February 1969

skirt, that will leave enough material for the bottom ruffle."

I did everything I could to help. While Mama was cutting out the newspaper pattern I built up the fire and put the flatiron on, set up the ironing board and got the machine out, and, by the time Mama had the pattern ready, the material was pressed and the scissors and thread were at her fingertips. Mama wouldn't cut paper with her good scissors.

I heard Jennie and Lucy coming to the house crying, but I couldn't take a deep breath until Mama actually cut into the material.

"Mama, we're scared of the old hen," Jennie wept.

"Goodness, child. What have you been doing all this time? You've been gone long enough for her to be ready to hatch."

"Just looking at the old hen," Lucy wept. "She ruffled her feathers at us and scolded."

Mama was rising to help them, but I interceded. "I'll help them, Mama."

"All right," she said, and went back to her sewing. "Callie," she added, just as I was going out the door, "Get the wheelbarrow and put that fertilizer on my flower bed." I knew it!

"Yes, Mama," I said. "Can I do it after lunch? I'll get lunch and get the baby to sleep." I didn't wait for an answer.

Secretly I was afraid of the old hen, too, but didn't dare show Jennie and Lucy. I didn't just help them; I took a firm grip on the hen's back feathers, avoiding her beak, and lifted her off the nest. Jennie hurried up and put the eggs in and we got out of there. She was fussing around setting on them, pecking each egg under her feathers as if they were already hatched into baby chicks. I liked her for it.

"I can't wait for the baby chickens," said Lucy.

"You'll have to watch Lalla that she doesn't love them to death."

I hurried back to the house, and none too soon, for Mary was cross and Lalla was crying for her lunch. In another minute Mama would have stopped sewing to take care of them, so I did it.

After lunch I sat on the little chair and sang Lalla to sleep. By all this managing on my part Mama was ready to try on the underskirt before I did the lunch dishes.

"Did you forget the wheelbarrow?" Mamma asked.

It was safe to leave her now, I thought, with Mary and Lalla asleep. Jennie and Lucy had been given permission to go play with the Jensen children, and I couldn't see a thing to interfere with Mama sewing.

"I'll be just outside if you want me for trying on," I said.

"I declare! I never saw anybody so helpful," answered Mama blandly.

It took quite awhile for me to fertilize the garden. I had meant to protest how heavy the wheelbarrow was for a little girl eleven, but, under the circumstances, I said nothing. I have seen Mama start after chins of a morning and never get back to the house the livelong day. She would feed the chickens, gather the eggs, water the cows and toss them a little feed if the men were at the field, going from one to the other without any previous planning.

110
