[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 99 | Fiction | The Perfect Gift | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
The Perfect Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd]

His scented beard, clean, tailored suits, polished shoes, and gold vest watch seemed almost unmanly beside the rough, dustcoated apparel of the pioneer boy. And Frank's speech was polite to the point of lacking force, Dezzie felt. And, anyway, she had an inherent distrust of men who made their livelihoods pushing pencils instead of plows. So, lacking both my grandmother's permission and_ her blessing, in the winter of 1899, and on horseback, my parents eloped. They rode for two hours through a dry, driving blizzard to the Morgan depot, caught a train to Salt Lake City, and were married January 5th. In subsequent years my grandmother forgave her daughter, and developed respect, even love for her son-in-law, but she had never come to visit, and she would not meet Frank's family. The miracle which ultimately precipitated my grandmothers' meeting came quite by accident. Grandmother Tarbert came to Morgan to attend one of her sisters critically ill with pneumonia. It became impossible for her not to come visit us, not with Coal- ville only twenty miles away, and my father the owner of a Pierce-Arrow, one of the fifteen cars in the county. And thus she had come, a sparse figure who pulled her storm-gray hair skin-tight over her head into a frugal bun at the back. She was only fiftyeight, but her wind-weathered, sun-etched face spoke more of one seventy. Her hands were bony, although quick and strong, and her voice was dry and cracked, reminding me of a bonfire. Her lips were thin and pursed. Her eyes, though, were young. They were black and penetrating, and alive with what seems to me now, a childlike curiosity. It was in those eyes that I fathomed my dear grandmother's backbone, her steel will, and, thank goodness, her sense of humor. There were two rockers in our living room, one a black, straightbacked, hardwood chair, and the other a_ pillowed, soft, floralprinted affair. Mother and I always preferred the latter, while my father usually chose a large, somber, stuffed, stationary armchair for his evening reading. For this meeting, Grandmother chose the black rocker. Grandmother Pamier, a frequent visitor at our house, sat as usual in the floral rocker. She was seventy-two, white haired, and had soft, pink-white skin. Her hands were not cracked or rough, and her smile was luminous, her voice lilting. I wondered, as had my parents for weeks, where two such women would find mutual territory.

My parents left them alone Common Ground to find out. Papa took Mother for a ride, said they would be back in an hour after running some errands. [I nearly stopped breathing in the silence which settled in that room once the Pierce-Arrow could no_ longer be heard. The only sounds were our mantel clock, the occasional rustle of Grandmother Pamier's skirts—and the rapid, militant rocking of Grandmother 'Tarbert's chair. Grandmother Pamier, known for her ability to make people comfortable in social situations, began. "Sister Tarbert, I understand you and your husband do farm work in Wyoming." "We raise sugar beets, beef stock. Best crop is our children." "How many children do you have?" Without missing a beat in her rocking, Grandmother 'Tarbert pursed her lips reflectively, then, "The last six were boys." Grandmother Pamier looked sharply, and, for half a minute was silent. But she had borne twelve children herself, though three died in infancy, and she pressed forward. The conversation was staccato. Esther Pamier asked questions; Dezzie Tarbert answered them. They covered the subject of their combined twenty-eight children in roughly two and a half minutes, the only similarities seemingly being that each' bore children in '71, '74, '76, 78, and 80. Grandmother Pamier went back a further step: "I came to Salt Lake Valley in 1857, by wagon train,' she remembered. "When did you happen to come West, Sister Tarbert?" 

101 February 1969

 Dezzie Tarbert's sharp voice crackled. "We came then, too. Our company was made up of handcarts." Esther Pamier dropped the subject and again retreated. She must have noted, and I somehow felt, that Grandmother Tarbert, in her way, was trying to be warm, but somehow she couldn't, as if she didn't know how, or as if an unseen wall of pride prevented her from unbending before the older woman who sat opposite. "My family came from Hallow, in Worcester, England," Grandmother Pamier recounted. "We sailed from Liverpool in 1857." My Grandmother Tarbert's rocking slowed. "We came from Edinburgh," she said quietly, "and sailed from Liverpool that same year. I was seven. There was a storm on that voyage." Her eyes grew bottomless as she remembered. Grandmother Pamier sighed audibly, with relvef, I felt. And almost gaily she said, "Oh my! We experienced such a storm as you can't believe. Hundreds of us huddled together while that old ship, 'New Grinstead, pitched and rolled. I remember," and she paused as if recalling something she had not thought of in many years, "'there was a little Scots girl who hid her head under my skirts, until out of exhaustion, she fell asleep in my lap." Grandmother Tarbert's rocking had stopped. She rose from her chair, and as she did, I found Grandmother Pamier and I stood likewise. "That was my ship," her voice cracked, "J was that little girl!" The two old women embraced, and cried, and laughed, and suddenly I realized there J was standing, unseen, perfectly blended into the woodwork, grinning from ear to ear. I felt a little foolish, but I couldn't help it. They were infectious. They retraced the same subjects and this time couldn't talk fast enough to say all they wanted to say. When my parents returned an hour later they walked into the house open-mouthed, unnoticed by their two chattering mothers, sitting side by side on our plush, orange, stuffed couch. The following year Grandmother Pamier died, but I heard Grandmother Tarbert retell this story many times in the last twenty years of her life. And each time, I felt my first excitement in seeing two unlike old ladies discover common ground.