[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: A NEW YEAR'S GREETING. | Author: Unknown]

A NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	To the host of friends here and else-
where we offer our Happy New Year in
love and with best wishes for happiness and
prosperity during the year just entering
upon the threshold of Time. May it bring
with its varied seasons prosperity and peace
to the nation in which we live; may the
dark shadows which still linger in the
horizon of the year just past be quickly
dispersed and war no more like a bird
of ill-omen hoverover our fair land.
	Although the year 1898 opened aus-
piciously and civilization has made great pro-
gress along many lines, yet the war has
made terrible suffering and sorrow in tens of
thousands of homes the country over be-
sides the hardships, wounds and deaths of
the brave volunteers and soldiers them-
selves. Time alone can assauge the devas-
tation the war has occasioned, but even that
will not heal broken-hearted mothers, wives
and sweethearts.
	Utah was more fortunate than most other
states in this respect, and we know that our
boys and men who volunteered went forth
with the prayers and blessings and united
faith of thousands of the Latter-day Saints.
Yet many have returned home weakened
by fever and malaria, still we rejoice that
they are with us yet and hope for their
speedy recovery.
	The women of the Red Cross Society
throughout the land have done bravely and
here in our own state valiant work has been
accomplished; very little has been said or
published of these noble efforts put forth, in
philanthropic charity, bnt we know much
concerning it and how far-reaching it has
been.
	It is a matter of congratulation that
President McKinley mentioned the Red
Cross and its noble President, Clara Barton,
it is the first recognition of woman in the
message of a President of the United States
that we are able to recall. Let us hope that
it is a good omen for woman and that the
day so long looked for and so ardently de-
sired, when woman shall have her rightfnl
place in the annals of the nation, and in all
places and all measures that effect the wel-
fare of the people is not far distant.
	Would it could come to pass in Susan B.
Anthony's time or Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton's whose courage in advancing human
progress has been so marked for more than
half a century?

[Column 2]
	But women have the courage not only to
act in the fruitful present but to wait with
sublime hope for the coming time, when
all over this free and happy land an era of
progress shall come to pass such as has
never been in any land of which we have a
knowledge. And let us believe it is not
far off. Many wonderful things have trans-
pired in the year to which we now say adieu,
and science and electricity and many new
forces in the material world are pushing
their way to aid mankind materially and
are not moral and spiritual forces doing
battle for the uplifting of humanity. There
is and must necessarily be elements in the
universe, if we but knew how to grasp them
that would aid the triumph of light over
darkness. We as a people know something
of this power, of the faith that can heal the
sick, and through prayer and humility bear
us up when all others means are powerless.
	And now again A Happy New Year to
one and all of the readers of our dear little
“Exponent.” May the year 1899 be a
year of prosperity and success beyond our
expectations in literary work; for the wo-
men of the Church and of this State need
more history written and more home litera-
ture instead of so much that is not worth
the time spent on it and money expended
for it. Our young women do not appreciate
the efforts put forth by the women who
have laid the foundation in this line of
work. They are even inclined, at least the
majority of them to under value pioneer
journalistic efforts, though it has preserved
for the good of the community many
records, histories and sketches of important
trensactions, educational, political, and of
organizations and industries.
	At the present time there are great
deficiencies to be met in closing up old ac-
counts, and starting with the new manage-
ment of the Deseret News Company, even
if it is possible to pull through, but the
Relief Society and those who believe in an
official organ for its advancement should
make strennous efforts to secure sufficient
subrcriptions to tide over the crisis. Other
papers have had similar experiences and
friends have come forward to assist
pecuniarily and given substantial help.
The only thing wanting for the "Ex
ponent to make it financially successful
is a larger circulation. Have the women
of Zion the active interest of the Relief
Society and the silk industry at heart and
if so will they co-operate in raising the
means necessary?
	The "Exponent" has endeared the writer
to very many of the sisters, who have been
its patrons, and the personal friendships and
sisterly relations by interchange of calls,
visits and correspondence have been very
gratifying and beneficial in many waps.
	To tell how dearly we love it and those
who have been its advocates and contribu-
tors would be a difficult task, beyond lan-
guage to express; only when heart speak
to heart can it be understood. May the
new year prove how we all love the "Ex-
ponent" by substantial patronage.


