[Vol8 | July 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony - The Lords Supper]

Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) THE LORD'S SUPPER The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is observed by all Christian churches except the Quakers. It is a celebration of the Last Supper eaten by our Lord and Master before he went out to trial and crucifixion. Like all the sacraments and ordinances of the gospel it has been modified and changed by the Christian churches through the apostasy which has crept into the churches and sects. In this lesson we shall indicate only a line of study which should be followed up by those who wish to know concerning the marvelous ordinance so that mothers might teach their children and grandchildren in the home circle, and thus prepare them to understand and appreciate the beauty of the Sacrament. Let students read the story of the introduction of the Feast of the Passover, as it is given in Exodus, chapter 12, and then read from Matthew 26, and John 13. At this last Passover feast, Jesus tried to show his disciples that the annual ceremony of killing the paschal lamb, under the peculiar condition taught by Moses, was a symbolic ceremony which shadowed forth his own sacrifice of the cross; for he was the Paschal Lamb without blemish or fault, the Firstling of the Flock as he was the First Born of his Father's kingdom. When he took the piece of unleavened bread in the ceremony, he told his disciples that afterwards they were to remember that the unleavened bread represented his own broken body; he broke the bread and wine and passed it around to his disciples saying, "Do this in memory of me." Then when he lifted up the cup of wine he told them that, on down the centuries, the wine should typify the shedding of his blood and the bread his broken body as the Redeemer of the world, and he cautioned them to partake of it in memory of him in all future time. The Jews had forgotten the double meaning of, the great Paschal feast, and like the present day Christians had wandered far away from the truth. They confined the Paschal Lamb and the feast to the Passover memorial only. Jesus himself found it difficult to teach his own disciples just what was meant by this changing of the Passover ceremonies into his supper or a symbolic ceremony; partaken of in remembrance of his sacrifice. A point that should always be remembered in teaching our children is, that it is not only that we please the Savior by partaking of this Sacrament it is also true that we get a blessing when we think of him and renew our covenants at the Sacrament table. He has all glory and power, but he obtained it himself by complying with the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Now he wants us to go through the same schooling as he did that we may acquire the same experience and receive the blessings through obedience to eternal laws. The disciples of the Savior remembered his injunction and although they were persecuted and scattered, after the crucifixion, and especially after the day of Pentecost, his disciples then understood exactly what he meant, and they renamed the ordinance calling it the Lord's Supper instead of the Passover Feast. To be sure the Passover commemorated the passing of the Israelites over the Red Sea, dry shod; but the Paschal Lamb which was offered with it was extremely typical or symbolic of the sacrifice of the Savior himself. Indeed, all the ancient Hebrew ceremonies pointed to the mission of the Savior, and that was fully understood hy Moses and Noah and Adam; but in the ages which followed Moses' day, the Jewish people gradually became indifferent; and, finally, when the Savior came there was only a few who accepted his divine message, as there is only a few that accept the restoration of the gospel which he himself restored in this day to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We would call your attention in this connection to an article which appeared in the Magazine in April, 1919, as the article gives a little side light on the Paschal Feast. The early Christians observed the simple ceremony of blessing the bread and wine and then passing it around to all the congregation just as we do today. It must be remembered that in those oriental countries water was not always pure to drink, since it was kept in cisterns, and sometimes became full of disease germs; and so the people made a light sour wine which they mixed with the water and the accidity cleansed the water or killed the germs in it. After the Christian church fell away from the truth, following the death of all the apostles, changes crept into the ordinances and ceremonies. It was believed that the Lord's Supper had a peculiar efficacy attached to it, and both bodily and spiritual diseases could be cured through partaking of it. Then, as the apostasy grew, they began to surround the ceremonial with mystery and superstition. As early as the second century Ignatius 
 and Justin Martyr advanced the opinion that the mere bread and wine became something higher and more heavenly without, however, ceasing to be bread and wine. This view was combated by Origen, who died 254 A. D, He took a figurative conception of the Sacrament and tried to prevent the people from taking a supernatural view of the Lord's Supper. By the third century the church (which is now called the Catholic church) withdrew the Sacrament from the people permitting only the priests to partake of it. The church claimed that the bread and wine was another sacrifice similar to that offered up in the death of Christ. The ceremonial began to be surrounded with gradually increasing splendor of celebration. Finally, under Gregory the great, 590 A. D., it developed into what is known today as the Mass. Then finally they had a Low Mass and a High Mass. In the Low Mass a single Priest reads the service and in the High Mass the services is chanted or sung by the Priests and Deacons or sub-deacons. The forty-first psalm is sung after an introductory prayer, long extracts from the scriptures are introduced or sung, and extracts from the Nicene Creed is read and responded to by the people. After this the priest's hands are washed and prayer is read by the priest followed by the penitents or candidates retiring from the church. After that there are more prayers and the "Elevation of the Host" or the lifting up of the bread anid wine by the priest is made, and another prayer follows, and still another; then the Host or Sacrament is again lifted up and carried around the church for the people to worship. It is not only worshiped as a symbol and emblem of the Body and Blood of the Savior, it is also believed and taught, as a part of their creed and accepted for centuries, that the bread and wine are, in the act of consecration transformed by the omnipotence of God into the very body and blood of Christ which was once born of Mary, nailed to the cross, and restored from the dead. According to this conception nothing remains of the bread and wine except the outward form, the taste and smell. At the council of Rome, held in 1215 A. D., under Innocent Third, this doctrine which was called "Transubstantiation" was declared to be an article of faith; and it has continued to be so held by the Catholic church to the present day. You can understand, therefore, how it is that the Catholic people bow and kneel in abject worship, when the "Host" (which is the wafers and wine consecrated by the priest) is believed to be the actual flesh and blood of the Savior. With the Reformation of Martin Luther came opposition to this view; some of the reformers insisted that the bread and wine were only symbolic; Zwingli maintained this view, and the Presbyterians, and other Protestant churches, accept this symbolic view. For many centuries, in the Catholic church, the priests only were allowed to partake of the Sacrament, but in very recent years, in America at least, the laity have been permitted to partake of the Sacrament. Over this bitterly contested point, all down the ages since, there have been furious theological storms. The Episcopal church itself is divided on this matter. The High church, as it is called, maintains what it calls objective mystical presence of the things sacrificed along with the sin; but - the Low church adheres to the symbolic view of the Sacrament. The elaborate and costly ceremonies, however, of both churches, resemble the Catholic ceremonies. It will be well to quote here the opposite views of the two modern representative churches, on this point, as given by their own writers and exponents in What the World Believes: "The Greeks celebrate mass, which consists of a round of ceremonies somewhat similar to those of the Latin mass. The laity, as well as the clergy, however, among the Greeks, take the Sacrament in both hands, and receive from the hands of the priests the consecrated bread and wine in the same spoon, which the Greeks call labis. The laity receive the Sacrament standing at the door of the sanctuary; the men first and then the women. Those who presume to partake of this holy banquet must stand in a modest reverential posture; their eyes must be fixed on the ground, and their heads bowed down, as persons in the act of adoration, and their arms must be crossed. The Greeks follow the example of the Latins, carry the communion to the sick, but with less pomp or grandeur, it being contained in a little box, enclosed in a bag, which the priest bears under his arm. This is a small parcel or portion of the blessed bread, which they also carry to those whose business confines them at home. They take a small portion of consecrated bread, about an inch square, cut it in the form of a cross, and sprinkle it with a little blood (that is, transubstantiated wine) and administer it to the sick, after having moistened it with a little water, or a little wine, and this is their viaticum which they give to sick and dying persons. The following extract describes the Episcopalian form: The Communion is one of the principal Sacraments of the Church of England, for which purpose the altar, for this name is often given by the members of the Church of England to the communion table, ought to have a clean white cloth upon it, and to stand in the body of the church, or in the chancel, where morning and evening prayers are appointed to be said. At all other times the said table is covered with silk, and set in a decent place altar-wise. The priest, standing at the north side of the table, repeats the Lord's prayer, with a collect, then rehearses distinctly the ten commandments; after each, the people kneeling, say, "Lord have mercy on us, and incline our hearts to keep this law." This is followed by a collect for the sovereign, which the priest says standing; the collect of the day, the epistle, and gospel, at which last the people stand, as they do like-wise at the singing or reciting of the Nicene or Constantinopolitan creed, which is done immediately after the gospel. The curate declares unto the people what holidays and fasting days are in the week following 
 to be observed; and, if occasion be, publishes the banns of matrimony, reads briefs, citations, and excommunications. Then follows the sermon, which being ended, alms are taken for the poor, or church purposes. This is followed by prayers and exhortations; after which, the priest stands up before the table, and having so ordered the bread and wine that he may with the more readiness and decency break the bread before the people, and take the cup into his hands, repeats the prayer of consecration, which begins the third part of the Communion service: "Hear us, O merciful Father, and grant that we, receiving these thy creatures of bread and wine, according to Jesus Christ's holy institution, in remembrance of his death and passion, may be partakers of his most blessed body and blood, who in the same night that he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he break it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, 'Take, eat, this is my body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me.' Likewise, after supper, he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, 'Drink ye all of this for this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for you, for the remission of sins. Do this as oft as ye shall drink it in remembrance of me.'" The priest first receives the communion in both hands himself, then proceeds to deliver the same to the bishops, priests, and deasons (if any be present); and after that, to the people also in order into their hands, all meekly kneeling. The priest repeats a prayer when he gives the bread, and another when the cup is given to any one. If the consecrated bread or wine be exhausted before all have communicated, the priest is to consecrate more. If, on the contrary, there remains any when all have communicated, the minister returns to the Lord's table, and reverently places upon it what remains of the consecrated elements, covering the same with a clean linen cloth. Here begins the fourth and last part of the communion service. The Lord's prayer is recited by the minister, the people repeating after him every petition; then follows another form of thanksgiving; after which, "Glory be to God on high," is sung, a hymn to which antiquity has given the appelation of angelical. The whole service is concluded by the priest (or bishop, if he be present) dismissing the congregation with a blessing.The Presbyterian form is as follows: 1. The times for celebrating the Lord's Supper are to be determined by the minister and elders. In some portions of the Church it is observed only semi-annually; more generally, however, as often as once in three months; in others, once in two months, and in a few, monthly. 2, The ignorant and scandalous are not admitted, In the Presbyterian church in the United States it is not deemed necessary to protect the tables of the Lord from unworthy communicants by requiring tickets of admission. It is found that very seldom does any one offer to approach without being a regularly acknowledged communicant. 3. Public notice is given of the intention to celebrate the Lord's Supper one Lord's day previous to the administration of the ordinance, and a lecture is delivered on some covenient season in the course of the week, that by preparatory instruction and devotion the church may come in a suitable manner to this holy feast. 4. When the service has been introduced with appropriate devotional exercises, or a sermon, the bishop or pastor shows that this is an ordinance of Christ, by teaching the words of the institution, either from one of the Evangelists, or from Ist Cor. 11, which, as to him may appear expedient, he may explain and apply. 5. The table on which the elements are placed, being decently covered, the bread in convenient dishes, and the wine in cups, and the communicants orderly and gravely sitting around the table, or in their seats before it, the minister sets the elements apart by prayer and thanksgiving. He then takes the bread and breaks it, in the presence of the people, saying: "Our Lord Jesus Christ, on the same night in which he was betrayed, having taken bread and blessed and broken it, gave it to his disciples; as I, ministering in his name, give this bread to you, saying (while the elders commence the distribution), "Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me." After having given the bread with due care that none have been neglected, he takes the cup and says: "After the same manner our Savior took the cup, and having given thanks, as hath been done in his name, he gave it to his disciples, saying (while the minister repeats these words he gives the cup to the elders), 'This cup is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for many, for the remission of sins. Drink ye all of it." The pastor and elders may communicate at such times as are convenient. The service is commonly concluded with exhortation and Prayer, and singing a hymn, and pronouncing the apostolical benediction. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints every Sabbath day in the Sunday schools, and in the ward houses of worship. It is given only to those who are in good fellowship, and those who administer it are enjoined, in the Doctrine and Covenants, to be very cautions that only those who are worthy shall partake of it, those who have clean hands and pure hearts, who keep the commandments of God, and who have covenanted in the waters of baptism with him, are eligible to partake of the Sacrament. Read section 20:75-81, Doctrine and Covenants. Compare the wording of the prayer concerning it with the ceremonies we have quoted from the other churches, The Nephites understood and administered this ordinance, (read chapter 5 in the book of Moroni). The Nephites had, of course, observed their Hebrew Passover service and when the Savior came to this continent he taught them the same ceremonies and principles which he had given his disciples in Jerusalem; that is, he taught them to transform this Passover memorial serVice into an ordinance which should commemorate his earthly crucifixion. 7 We learn, therefore, that the law of sacrifice, which was understood and practiced by the Jews, can be remembered by us every Sabbath day when we partake of the Sacrament. Every Latter-day Saint, and especially those who have made covenants in the temple, should go to the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day and partake of these sacred emblems to renew their covenants 
 and to remember the crucifixion and thus to receive special and wonderful blessings in their own body and spirit. We do not believe in the mysticism and superstition of the Catholic church, in regard to the Sacrament. It is revolting to think of eating the flesh and drinking the blood of any body, much less that of the Savior. Miracles which are performed by our Father in heaven do not take the form of unnecessary displays of magic and witchcraft, in order to impress or appal mortal man. Ali the miracles which the Savior performed, and which are recorded in the scriptures, were done on strictly natural principles. Study them for yourself. At the same time Latter-day Saint mothers should see to it that from the time a child is able to partake of the Sacrament that child should be taught to regard the piece of bread and the sip of water as a holy symbol and as a sacred ordinance, After they are so taught and after we approach that ordinance with the solemn and sacred spirit and thought which it deserves, there will be a reformation in the careless attitude and indifferent approach so often manifested by our people when they partake of the Lord's Supper. Reading or study will result in a tangible reformation on this subject. QUESTIONS 1. What was the Passover Feast? Describe the Paschal Lamb, and how it was killed, and its resemblances to the offering of the Savior's life. (See Students' Help to the Study of the Bible, in any good Bible.) 2. Under what circumstances did the Savior himself administer the Sacrament to his disciples? Describe the customs of the early Christian church. 3. How do the Catholics administer the Sacrament? 4. Have you ever attended a Catholic Mass? If so, describe it; if not, attend one, and then describe it to the class. 5. How do the Episcopalians administer the Sacrament? Attend one of their services and describe it to the class. 6. What do the Protestant churches believe, in regard to the Sacrament? 7. Who was Martin Luther? Who was Justin Martyr? 8. How did the early Catholics differ about the Sacrament? 10. Do you teach your children the solemnity of that ordinance? If not, why not? 11. Discuss the contrast between our observance of the ordinance and that of other churches.