Ee Meeting Relief Society's Challenge Counselor Donna D. Sorensen. THE Prophet Joseph Smith said, "We are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves." 'T'his large audience today bespeaks the interest with which the women of this Society enter upon its one hundredth year of activity, and we know that you desire in this organization to "improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord." Next Tuesday, October 14, the official classroom instruction will commence for the thousands of members of this Society. Some 11,000 class leaders will go forward with an educational program designed to advance women toward exaltation. As you were informed last conference, "the growth in membership in the Relief Society during the past three years is unparalleled by any similar period," and this year will see other thousands added to our numbers. If you were giving a feast, you would ask those whom you loved to eat with you. Often I have heard many of you say, as I have said, "Here in this woman's organization I have found that which was meat to my body and food to my soul." You believe this as sincerely as I do, but we should remember that the reason for our feeling thus is because we have felt the nearness of those who think as we do from a religious standpoint; we have found friendship; we have tasted the sweetness of service and gained a love for this organization which comes from working in it. Those thousands coming into our organization as new members have not tasted the joy which comes from affiliation with this particular society. We have invited them to a feast which we know full well they will enjoy and appreciate if the setting can be as nearly perfect as possible. First impressions can be such lasting ones. As this conference features the educational work, probably my thoughts have been with the responsibility of the class leaders and the challenge they face in making their contribution to this feast. A great deal of the responsibility of keeping these new members inter- 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ested and active in the organization will rest upon the ability of class leaders to interest them in the educational program. 'The increased number of women in ward classes will demand from the class leader greater dependability, more careful preparation of material, more alertness to methodology, and experimentation with new forms of adult teaching. Yesterday's conference program was planned to give help along these lines. The class leaders, however, share the responsibility with the ward officers of the organization. Ward officers must plan well; they must carry on the mechanics of the organization with dispatch; they must possess vision and cultivate diligence. We are challenged to be resourceful and diligent when we are called to labor in the Church in any capacity. It is a privilege to serve in this organization at any time, but it is a special delight to occupy positions of trust during such a memorable and significant year. As the culminating effort in a century of progress and light, this year's effort should be the best of all previous years. But the responsibility for the success of the work of this organization rests not alone upon ward officers and class leaders, or upon stake boards or the General Board. It extends beyond these and embraces each member of this worthy organization. 'The General Board is confident that through the effort of each member of this Society we shall reach our goal of 100,000 by the centennial 773. The General Board desires not only the help of each present member of the Society in enlisting new members, but we would like your assistance in making permanent and strong the ties which bind these new members to this organization in the future. The Relief Society is more than a woman's organization, it is a Church auxiliary, and because this is so, a feeling of warmth and understanding should prevail in our contacts. No one should come to one of our Relief Society meetings and leave again without having been made welcome.. For we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ abiding in our hearts, and those who come to our Society are not only our friends, but they are our sisters in the Gospel. We, you and I, must take the time to extend the handclasp, to speak the kind word, to share the little experience, to inquire about a loved one. Jesus called it loving our neighbor as ourself. Yes, we are challenged by our growth in this one-hundredth year, but in the words of the theme of this conference we take hope: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap..." for "God... Will render to every man according to his deeds: To them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:" (Romans 2:6-11) May we search and find and love those things this year which will give us eternal life.