Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 5 CHAPTER 5, FarrH AND REPENTANCE Article 4?"'We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance;..." (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To understand that faith and repentance are universal principles of constructive daily living and not mere religious abstractions. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter. A. Faith. 1. A workable definition of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 96-100, 479) 2. The foundation of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 100-102) . Faith as a principle of power. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 102-106) 4. The place of faith in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, 106-107) 5. The relationship between faith and works. (Articles of Faith, pp.
107-108, 480-481) B. Repentance 1. The nature of repentance. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 109-112). The confession of sins. B A willingness to forgive others. C. Confidence in Christ?s atoning sacrifice. 2. The plan of repentance in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, pp. 113-116). III. Teaching Method The subject matter of this lessons lends itself to the use of ?panel discussion memthod.? A. Preparation The class leader should selectg four women to assist her in the presentation of this lesson. She should meet with them and make assignments of the lesson material to each as follows: 1. Topics 1 and 2, in lesson outline under Division II, Faith 2. Topics 3, 4 and 5, under Division II, Faith 3. Topic 1, under Division II, Repentance 4. Topic 2, under Division II, Repentance After these divisions have 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1941

 been assigned, the class leader should impress upon each one the following factors: first, each must stay within the limits of the topic assigned, in order to avoid trespassing on the report of another; second, the textual material deals largely with religious abstractions, so each of the participants in the panel should, drawing upon personal experience, stress the application of the principles they discuss to the situations of daily life; third, no more than five minutes is to be used by each of the panel speakers. B. Presentation When the class period opens, the class leader should be seated in the front of the class, facing the class, with two speakers on each side of her. She should then introduce the members who are assisting her, the subject of the lesson, and the topics of the speakers. This should not occupy more than _ three minutes. Each speaker should then report the assigned topic, after which the class leader should make a summarizing statement of the reports. It is at this stage of the procedure that the class leader has the opportunity of stressing the objective of the lesson by a skillful application of the 'principles of faith and repentance to daily life situations. She should emphasize the point that whatever we achieve in life, whatever success is ours, whatever hope or joy in the Gospel we secure, results from our faith in life, in our fellow men and in God. In similar fashion, it is by the application of the principle of repentance that we make advancement in life. We improve and progress by correcting our errors and avoiding a tepetition of them. It is the application of these principles in the field of religion that brings joy to the hearts of human beings and leads them to salvation in the celestial kingdom. This need not occupy more than five minutes, but it must be well planned in advance. Following the presentation, the class leader should open the session for a discussion of the lesson, asking for questions from the class members. These questions should be referred. To the speakers of the panel, and the class leader should only answer them or make supplementary comments when the speakers themselves cannot give satisfactory answers. If there are not sufficient | questions from the class to occupy the remainder of the time before the testimony period begins, the class leader should present questions to the class members, making use of questions similar to LESSON DEPARTMENT those suggested at the end of this lesson. In conclusion, the class leader should express 'an appreciation for the part that these principles play in helping us to live progressively better in our quest for the abundant life. Such a positive summary should stimulate the class to a full participation in the testimony meeting that follows. Suggestive Questions 1. It has been said that there are four "R's" to repentance?recognition, remorse, resolution and restitution. What do you think of this suggestion? Show how each is a stage in a sincere forsaking of wrongdoing. 2. What is the meaning of the term "justification by faith alone'? Compare with the Latter-day Saint belief in "faith 781 and works." (Articles of Faith, pp. 479, So \ 4 What error of belief do you see in the doctrine of '"death-bed repentance"? 4. Relate instances that indicate how faith has been a power in your daily life. 5. Indicate some practical use of the principle of repentance that you have made in your home life. 6. What relationship can you see between faith and the bearing of a testimony? 7. Indicate the relationship that exists between the principle of repentance and the public bearing of a testimony. References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 5, pp. 96-119, 479-482. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 317-321, 395-396, 732-733- Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 116-118, 121-130. L. L. Bennion, The Religion of the Latter-day Saints, pp. 113-1109. Hebrews 11.