ee for every blessing. Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy command. When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us And threaten our peace to destroy, There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliv'rance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor His goodness, We've proved Him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion Will surely be smitten at last. 798 | 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941

 We'll sing of His goodness and mercy, We'll praise Him by day and by night, Rejoice in His glorious Gospel, And bask in its life-giving light; Then on to eternal perfection The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message Shall never such happiness know. ?William Fowler. WHENEVER we receive an ordinance in religion, for instance, baptism, the laying on of hands in sickness, the conferring of the Holy Ghost, or the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, we do so in connection with an organization. That organization is known as the Church. But in order to perform a religious ordinance, one must have the authority to do so. This authority in the Church of Christ is called Priesthood. In our Church this Priesthood came to Joseph Smith through an ordination by the ancient apostles, Peter, James, and John, who had been resurrected from the dead. All revelations for the Church as a whole are received by its President, who is known as "a prophet, seer, and revelator." Of course, any individual member of the Church may receive revelations for his own guidance, but not for the Church. It was this prophet and seer that William Fowler had in mind when he wrote this hymn. Whether it was Joseph Smith, the first prophet, we do not know; at any rate, when we sing it we think not only of Joseph Smith, but of whoever may be the head of the Church at the time. THE poem, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," was written by William Fowler, who was born May 9g, 1830, in Australia, where his family had gone to live temporarily. (His father, John Fowler, was in the army, and he had gone to Australia from Ireland and to Ireland from Sheffield, England.) William's mother, until she joined the Methodists with her husband, was a Roman Catholic. But William seems to have looked upon Methodism as "all hope and trust, no reality." At eighteen, William joined the Mormon Church. A young friend of his, whose father was a priest in the Church, took him to meeting. This was in the winter of 1848. William was impressed and was soon baptized. Later he was ordained a priest, whereupon he began to preach his new-found faith. By this time, however, the family had returned to Sheffield, England. _ Says George D. Pyper, in his Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns: "The daily diary of William Fowler, containing a record of four years of missionary service up to 1854, has been perused by the writer and is of intense interest. It shows the deep and abiding faith of the man in the Restored Gospel: how he traveled on foot and endured revilings and all sorts of persecutions for the Gospel's sake. It is full of such entries as 'walked 21 miles rode 7 today.' One of March 27, 1853, reads: Mob assembled and broke up the afternoon meeting. In the evening we met at Brother Craig's house and LESSON DEPARTMENT had a good meeting. The mob assembled outside expecting to pelt us with goose eggs, but as we did not open the door they did not know where to look for us, so they pelted each other.' " It is significant that William Fowler studied and taught music. He also learned the Pitman system of shorthand. According to his diary, he was given his first book in shorthand by the author of the system, Sir Isaac Pitman. "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" was not the only poem written by Brother Fowler. Others were printed in the Millennial Star. We never hear of them now, however. He came to America in 1863, and settled in Manti, where he taught school and where he died two years later, at the age of thirtyfive. A monument, erected by the Church, marks his grave in the Manti cemetery. 'Three children survived him, one son and two daughters. His name will always be remembered with gratitude by hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints in all parts of the world. HIS poem was composed, most probably, between 1860 and 1862. There is no evidence to show the exact date. According to the late President Joseph F. Smith, it was first sung at a religious meeting, to which it had been brought by Broth- -er Fowler. "It was published in the 12th edition (1863) of the Latterday Saint Hymn Book." That quotation is from Superintendent Pyper's book. So is this one: "It cannot be called the greatest hymn ever written by any of our authors. In fact, it does not compare in literary merit or poetic beauty with many of the other gems contained in our 799 hymn books, but it has something different from our other hymns." This "something different" lies in its praise to God for a man through whom we obtain divine guidance, rather than direct adoration to one of the Divine Trinity, or Godhead, as do most Christian hymns. HE first stanza has four separate phases of gratitude: first, thanks are given for a specific thing?that God has sent us a man "'to guide us in these latter days"; second, gratitude is expressed for the restoration of the Gospel; third, gratitude is expressed for "every blessing bestowed by" the bounteous hand of the Lord; fourth, "We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, and love to obey Thy command." No: doubt, if the meter would permit, the word "joy" would have been used by the poet instead of "pleasure," since it is a much stronger word. But it expresses an idea that ought to be dwelt upon here. Many people go through the forms of religion without much thought. 'They worship?if the word "worship" may be used in this connection?in the most formal, unreflecting way. They sing languidly; they listen to the words, but not the thought of the prayer; they hear only words in the sermon. That would not satisfy the poet who wrote this hymn. He would demand that we listen with the heart, not merely with the ear. He would require that we take "pleasure" in worshipping, in observing the commandments of God. What goes on should mean something to us. In the second stanza we strike a hopeful note. No matter what "dark clouds of trouble" may hang over us, we see through them a gleam of "hope smiling brightly before us." Trouble is apt to drive us to despair, unless we are buoyed up by religion, by faith, by the Spirit. Under such conditions, we do not "doubt the Lord, nor His goodness." 'This is true because "we have proved [tested] Him in days that are past." Was the poet thinking of his own trials, when mobs were at the door of the house where the Saints had met to worship God? Perhaps so. In any event, his experience is the experience of thousands of other Latterday Saints, and so the hymn is full of meaning to them, too. The po?t gives a thought to the "wicked" also; they shall be "smitten at last." Perhaps there is no feeling of revenge here, but only the statement of a fact. The last stanza goes back to the first. It is an expression of praise and thanksgiving. We'll "sing" and "praise" and "rejoice" and "bask in light." 'Thus we get the maximum of "pleasure" in serving God. The result of all this is that "the honest and faithful" will go on "to eternal perfection," by which the poet means "eternal. Progression." Such are the blessings derived from obedience to the Gospel, but no one can properly, expect to reap this reward who "rejects this glad message" ?which is only natural. They "shall never such happiness know." Questions 1. Who wrote this hymn? Where and when was he born? Under what circumstances did he join the Church? Tell about his four-year mission and the opposition he met with. Why should a man like William Fowler be persecuted by anyone? 2. What kind of man was William Fowler, judging by this hymn? Can you detect any reference in it to the events in his own life? If so, what? What was his attitude. Toward religion, judging by this poem? Pick out some words or phrases that show this attitude. 3. About when was this hymn written? Where was Brother Fowler living at this time? When did he emigrate? Where to? What did he do there? 4. Which prophet was meant in the hymn? What do we get as as result, of the work of our prophets? What should be our attitude toward them in consequence? What is meant by going on to "perfection"? How does a person become perfect?