$e Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 5 Attendance At Sacrament Meetings As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) THE ordinance of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is an extremely important one, since it ties up with the central fact in revealed religion?the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Lord gave this ordinance ""'by which Christ's life and mission, his death and _ resurrection, the great sacrifice he had offered for the redemption of man, should be kept in everlasting remembrance." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 255) Shortly before the Savior's death, he met with his disciples to observe the Feast of the Passover. Breaking bread, he blessed it and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body, which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me." Afterward He blessed some wine and gave it to them, with the words, "This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you." (Luke 22: 19, 20) After his resurrection, Jesus visited the American continent and in- 782 stituted the same ordinance among the Nephites. (III Nephi: 18) In our time, Joseph Smith received more specific instructions regarding the sacrament. Included in these instructions are the prayers to be offered, the authority to administer the ordinance, and the obligation assumed by those who partake of the emblems. All those who partake of the sacrament bear witness to the Lord (1) that they are willing to take upon themselves the name of Jesus Christ; (2) that they will always remember Him; (3) that they will keep His commandments. They do this that His spirit may always be with them. To partake of the sacrament worthily, one must rid his mind and soul of all hatred and ill will toward others. One should examine. Himself to see if he is living according to the teachings of the Gospel. It is beneficial to anyone to do this. In partaking of the sacrament, one renews his covenant to do the will of God. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941

 The members of the Church attend Sacrament meeting primarily to partake of the sacrament and to worship; also "to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls." One does not go there to be entertained. It should not matter if the speaker be eloquent or not. The purpose of the meeting can be accomplished if one goes there with the right understanding and spirit. If one expresses his faith in the Lord by attending Sacrament meeting, striving to place himself in the proper condition of mind and heart, then among the blessings he may expect are a renewal of his faith, a sense of peace, fresh courage to meet life's problems, and a forgiving spirit?all of which will help him to live a happier and a better life. Discussion 1. What is the main purpose of the Sacrament meeting? 2. Why is it important that Latter-day Saints attend Sacrament meeting? 3. What would it mean to a person to always have the spirit of Jesus Christ with him?