Paxman 400 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE gested that choristers read something of the lives of the great composers to their singing groups. She expressed the hope that the time would come when an audience such as the one assembled could sing together as a chorus. Representation and Attendance Members of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall during the three officers' meetings held there, welcoming the representatives attending the mectings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-three members of the General Board were present at the conference. __ Nearly every stake of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning—135 of the total of 138—all but San Luis in southwestern Colorado, Seattle in Washington, and Washington in the District of Columbia. In addition to stake representation, mission Relief Society presidents or their official representatives from six of the twelve missions in the United States were present: the California, Central States, New England, Northern States, Northwestern States, and Western States missions. Local Relief Society officers were in attendance from four other missions in the United States: East Central States, North Central States, Southern States, and Texas missions. 'T'wo Relief Society workers from Hawaii were also present— Eva B. Jensen, president of the Japanese Mission Relief Society, and Sai Lang Akana Aki, of Honolulu, a 731 Relief Society visiting teacher from the Oahu Stake in Hawaii, who is also chairman of welfare work in a Church organization there for the Chinese. Helen Harker, a Relief Society member from Australia who is visiting in the United States, was an enthusiastic attendant at the conference. The attendance at each session of the conference is shown in the schedule of meetings. President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on page 764), which was read at the general session in the Tabernacle by President Amy Brown Lyman. The address, "Women and the Church," by Elder Stephen L Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, delivered at the general session, will be printed in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Elder Marion D. Romney, one of the assistants to the Council of the Twelve and newly appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church welfare program, spoke in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning on "The Church Welfare Program for 1942"; this address will also appear in a later issue of the Magazine.. Wives of General Authorities of the Church who attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference included Mrs. Heber J. Grant and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; also Madeline B. Wirthlin, Fern T. Lee, and Ida J. Romney, each of whom offered prayer in the principal sessions. Recently returned Relief Society mission presidents also offered prayer—Luella R. Christiansen of the Texas Mission; Ann P. Nibley, Northwestern States Mission; and Fawn B. McKay, Swiss Mission. Mrs. McKay made a spe- 732 cial appeal in prayer in the interest of the Relief Society women and _ members of the Church generally in the countries which are at war. In her opening address at the Tabernacle session, President Lyman mourned the passing earlier in the week of Emily T. Merrill, wife of Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve, commenting on Mrs. Merrill's regular attendance in the past at general conferences of Relief Society, and her valuable service as a ward Relief Society president. Music at the Conference Lily Priestly rendered the organ prelude as the 'stake officers and board members congregated for the three officers' meetings of the conference in the Assembly Hall. She also accompanied the singing at the sessions in the Assembly Hall, and gave valuable assistance in the Wednesday afternoon music department, which was also held in the Assembly Hall, and which featured the ten songs to be included in the concert to be presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in April, 1942, as a part of the general centennial celebration. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen was in charge of the music department, and was assisted by Wade N. Stephens, assistant 'Tabernacle organist, in giving instruction and conducting a practice of the songs for the centennial concert. Following is a list of the ten songs which are to be sung in addition to the cantata Resurrection Morning, at the centennial concert: Price "A Song of Triumph'—Beatrice F. Stevens (words by Beatrice F. Stevens) Two Centennial Songs 

 

 "In His Form"—Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen (words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee) ... 10¢ Other Songs "The 23rd Psalm'"—Schubert (arranged by Saar)........ 15¢ Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5106 "Love's Dream" (3-part chorus for women )—Liszt-Harris.......... Published by Oliver Ditson "Peace I Leave With You"—Roberts 10¢ Published by G. Schirmer, No. 5065. "Through the Silent Night'—Rachmaninoff. 15¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,867 "My Heart is a Silent Violin"—Fox Andrews... Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5217 "The Kerry Dance"—Molloy-Harris.. 12¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,019 "O Winds, Blow Ye Softly"—Mozart 18c Published by M. Witmark and Sons, New York, No. W-2987 "Forget-Me-Not"—Bach............10c The two new centennial songs may be purchased only from the General Board (see page 752, also see Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 689). The other eight songs are not carried by the General Board, but may be purchased at music stores, some of which offer a discount, according to quantity ordered, to representatives of Relief Society. For information as to purchase of cantata, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1941, page 200. For details concerning delegation of not more than nine singers from each stake and mission to participate in the general centennial concert, see page 753; also Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pages oo and 3209. | At the beginning of the general RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE session in the Tabernacle, the Temple Square Choir, conducted by H. Frederick Davis, and accompanied by Alexander Schreiner at the organ, presented two numbers, "Hallelujah, Amen" from Judas Maccabaeus (Handel), and "What Affliction Mine Exceeding?" from Requiem (Verdi). Soloists featured during the second number were Marianne Madsen, soprano; Jessie Evans Smith, contralto; Ray Brimhall, tenor; Philip Dalby, basso. A special feature of the general session was the Tabernacle organ solo, improvisation on "A Mighty Fortress is Our God" (Luther), by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist. A special musical number was presented at each of the four department sessions on educational work, as follows: Jessie Evans Smith sang two numbers, ""That Sweet Story of Old" (West), and "Eye Hath Not Seen" from The Holy City (Gaul), at the department session on visiting teachers' messages; Richard P. Condie, assistant conductor, Tabernacle Choir, sang "If With All Your Heart' (Mendelssohn), accompanied by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, theology and testimony department; Albert Eccles sang two numbers, "The Song of the Flea" (Moussorgsky) and "King Solomon" (Cooke), at the literature department; Bessie Rogers sang two numbers, "Homing" (Teresa Del Riego) and "When Children Pray" (B. Fenner), at the social science department. Singing Mothers were not featured at this semi-annual general conference of Relief Society as is the custom, because October conference plans originally contemplated only departmental sessions, and the plans were changed too late to allow time 733 for selection of a group of choruses from outlying stakes and their adequate preparation. However, the  stakes—Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells—which tresponded willingly and sang well at these sessions of the conference with only a day's notice. Educational Work Featured The October conference featured the educational work of the Relief Society, with special emphasis on the union meeting. In her opening remarks at the first session of the conference, Counselor Sorensen reported that a survey conducted by the General Board at the close of the 1940-41 lesson season had disclosed, among other important findings, the need for more help in conducting union meeting lesson departments. {n order to help meet this need, a union meeting lesson department demonstration was conducted in each of the four educational department sessions of the general conference. Because of limited Magazine space in which to report proceedings of the general conference, and because the objectives of the union meeting lesson department and methods for achieving them were similar in each of the four demonstrations, a composite report of these demonstrations has been prepared, embodying the principal objectives and methods brought out in the demonstration in each separate department. 'The details of the re- spective lessons used in the demonstrations have been eliminated inasmuch as these lessons will have been given in stake union meetings prior to issuance of this November number of the Magazine. This composite summary of the main points of the union meeting demonstrations appears on page 737. Each of the four lesson departments also gave additional helpful material relating to their respective ' departments. 'This material is summarized and presented on the following pages in the order in which it was programmed. An unusual demonstration in the literature department was the public conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," in which Anna B. Hart, Mary G. Judd, and Alice B. Castleton, of the General Board, and Irma Felt Bitner, of Ensign Stake, participated. A summary of the main points brought out in the conversation appears on page 748. A special feature of the department on the visiting teachers' message was a play, The Great Fig Tree, written and directed by Joseph J. Cannon, which will be published in full in: a later issue of the Magazine. The two short officers' meetings which preceded the forenoon and afternoon department sessions on Wednesday were also devoted to problems of Relief Society teaching. In opening the conference, Counselor Sorensen emphasized the great responsibility which devolves upon Relief Society. Class leaders in interesting and retaining the thousands of new members who have been enlisted during the four-year membership campaign which ends this year. At the same meeting President Amy Brown Lyman gave valuable advice to class leaders, full text of which appears on page 735. The officers' meeting preceding the Wednesday afternoon department session featured with great effectiveness a round-table discussion on "Problems in Relief Society Teaching," conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Magazine space for the conference proceedings does not permit reproduction of the full text of the discussion, but the problems in Relief Society teaching presented during the discussion, and the suggestions made concerning them, are summarized and presented on page 743, of this issue of the Magazine. Mimeographed copies of "Mediums and 'Types of Humor," were distributed at the literature meeting. Stakes which did not obtain a copy of this bulletin at the conference may do so upon request to the office 'of the General Board, so long as the supply lasts. In her opening address at the general session in the Tabernacle on the following afternoon, President Lyman informed the thousands in attendance that the méetings of the previous day, featuring the educational work of the Society, had constituted a comprehensive teachers' institute. She spoke of the high standards of Relief Society study courses and expressed appreciation for the mighty work being accomplished through the devotion, earnestness, and efficiency of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church. She said, "They are not only presenting to us members interesting and valuable facts and in- 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941