Best: Yes, I would like to ask how we can make our discussions fruitful for everyone, regardless of age. Dr. Bennion: I am glad you used 744 the word "fruitful." Someone has said that when the Germans get together they march, when the French get together they sing, and when the Mormons get together they discuss. In other words, any mature group of Latter-day Saints will discuss if you give them a chance. One very easy way to teach is to throw out a question and just let nature take its course. But the question is whether or not this is fruitful. Sister Ryser, how can discussion be made fruitful? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that assigning a topic is one of the best ways to make a discussion fruitful. There are many ways of assigning a topic. I think a teacher is inviting failure if she just assigns a topic by saying, "We are going to study such and such"; and I think a teacher should not assign a topic unless she is familiar with it herself. She should think the topic through before assigning it, and know to whom she is making the assignment. The assignment should be made in the light of the ability of the sisters, and early enough for thorough preparation. Assignments should be clear and definite and direction should be given in where material dealing with the assigned subject can be found. A time limit should be placed on its presentation. But that is not all; the assignment should be followed up and checked upon by the teacher. Dr. Bennion: Do the women take these assignments, or do they resent being assigned the work? In other words, would they sooner come and listen to a lecture by a well-informed teacher and just acquiesce in what is said, or are they willing to dig in and think through the problems and enter into a discussion? Gwen Jones: I think that depends 

 

 largely upon the class which they are attending. In the social science class I believe the women like to discuss familiar problems, but in theology and literature I think that they really prefer to just listen. (Dr. Bennion asked members in the audience who agreed with this statement to raise their hands, and a large portion of the audience agreed. ) Dr. Bennion: Sister Best, we have heard that the assignment must be very specific, to the point, and followed up, if the discussion is to be fruitful. That is particularly true if the lessons are one month apart. How are you going to keep the discussion pertinent to the lesson objective? Do you have any trouble with class members wanting to get off on a tangent? Mae S. Best: I believe that if the leader is well prepared, and has a clear and concise idea of the information she wishes to impart, this need not be a great problem. Her questions must also be clearly stated and must not be misleading. 'Then if a person does get off on something that is irrelevant to the subject, she can tactfully ignore it and ask someone else her opinion. I think it is very wise for the leader to always have several illustrations in her own mind that will bring the discussion back to the subject matter at hand. Dr. Bennion: Suppose during a discussion that the necessary facts were not forthcoming; that is, the members did not know the necessary facts to clarify a point or problem. What do you think the teacher should do in that case? Florence I, Hyde: 'The teacher should do a great deal of outside reading and have a wide knowledge of her subject so that she can clarify RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a point in question when the class cannot. However, a teacher cannot know everything, so she might say, "Let us look it up for next time," or she might give it as a special assignment to someone. Dr. Bennion: Do you think it is a disgrace for a teacher to say, "I do not know'? Thelma J. Ryser: If I do not know, I do not mind saying so, but I always arrange to find out before the next class period. Dr. Bennion: We have discussed rather thoroughly how the discussion may be fruitful. Here is another fundamental problem. How can we determine whether the lessons are carrying over from one month to another? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that the problem would be different in different departments in Relief Society. However. I believe all lessons should be subject to review. We have certain points we wish to stress, certain objectives to reach, and during the discussion these points are driven home with force. At the end of the lesson the teacher brings these points together in one definite statement or summary. A review of these main points is a connecting link between one month's lesson and the next. Repetition or the reiteration of any idea fixes it. Dr. Bennion: In other words, it is the obligation of the teacher during the discussion to seize on to the fundamental things brought out. She should put these on the blackboard, in organized fashion, and bring them together in a summary, and these are the things that must be reviewed, repeated, and drilled upon. Would you approve of an examination about 745 twice a year upon these fundamental things? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that might frighten our women. Dr. Bennion: If you did it in sporting fashion it might be a good thing. Children in school have to face it all the time. In more ways than one, we are tested all the time. I am sure, however, that the finest way to make sure your lessons carry over is to take these fundamentals and apply them jn your lives, then they become part of your experience. Thelma J. Ryser: I should like to know how a teacher may improve her work? We all need improvement all the time. Dr. Bennion: There are three or four fundamental things that ought to be mentioned in answering that question: First, the teacher must have a philosophy of life. A religious teacher must have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ—a growing testimony. If she does not have that, if she does not keep rekindling it, she will get discouraged and wonder if her work is worthwhile. Second, she must have a love for human beings; she must be a student of human nature all her days. She must know her group. Third, she must be a student of the learning process, or how learning takes place; she must know something about it. The mission of the teacher is to stimulate and to help develop that which is inside a person. That is a lifelong study. To give a specific suggestion on how a teacher may improve her work, I think at the end of each lesson she teaches, when she gets home, she might sit in a quiet corner and pass judgment on what she did, not just on herself, but on the total situation. She might ask such questions as these: (1) Were the members interested in this class, and what point was most interesting and what point least? Why? (2) Did every member really take part? (3) Did I do my best to enlist such cooperation, particularly with the more timid and backward women? Did they seem to think the lesson worthwhile? (5) Were my objectives achieved? (6) Did the students seem clear as to the purpose of the lesson? (7) Wasmy lesson plan changed any from the way I prepared it? Were these changes good changes, and did they meet the needed situation? (8) Did I make a good assignment? (g) Is it clear to the members why they should undertake it? (10) Are they likely to carry through the assignment? An evaluation of her work helps the teacher to improve it. Thelma ]. Ryser: In addition to technical training, don't you think we need spirituality in our Relief Society teaching? Dr. Bennion: The reason you people who may not have had technical training make wonderful teachers is because you have the spirit of the Gospel in your hearts, you love human beings, you want to try to help save them and you have at least average intelligence. Then you must pay the price in effort. I cannot tell you what that price is to each of you, but if you are willing to pay it, you will be a successful teacher. When asking someone to teach in Relief Society, you should not say, "If you will be a teacher in the Relief Society all you have to do is this and that." Rather, you should say, "This is going to be a great challenge and a big assignment. It will take the very best spiritual and intellectual 

 

 qualities you have if you do it right; but if you will pay the price and do it right, there will be unheard of joys, blessings, and compensations come to you." I would like to emphasize another thing, After receiving this assignment, I inquired around a little and found that in a good many Relief Society classes the teacher is doing the work in lecture fashion. While adults get by with'this better than any other group, it puts a great responsibility on the teacher. The women may enjoy it; it is better for. Them than not being there, for they do some thinking and have a fine social contact by being in attendance. But there is a whole side of them which is neglected—the creative side. We are offspring of the Creator, and the creative side of us is very beautiful; it is divine. If we are going to learn a thing we must think, and discussion stimulates thinking. If we are to learn to judge and weigh one thing against another, we must have an interchange of views. In the lecture, one brilliant person does it all, and the members are deprived of a creative experience. In closing, I would summarize our discussion as follows: We have considered rather briefly four important questions regarding Relief Society teaching— 1. Are the lessons of interest to women of all age levels? My associates in this discussion feel that the lesson writers have had in mind the wide age range in Relief Society and have chosen themes of universal appeal. The sharing of experience by women of all ages is profitable and enriching to all. Nobody is old whose mind is alert and open to new discoveries.  . How may class discussions be made most fruitful? First, arouse interest in the lesson and a desire on the part of class members to seek new light on it. This may be done by asking questions to discover what they already know about the lesson or by telling a story or incident which relates the lesson theme to their own lives. Then make a careful, specific assignment and follow it up to be sure it is understood and will carry through. A fruitful discussion should follow, based on an exchange of new insights achieved through fulfilling the assignment. The discussion is a cooperative search for the really significant points of the lesson. The teacher must be able to recognize these essential elements and make an orderly outline of them on the blackboard as they emerge out of the group discussion. 'The teacher should endeavor to meet such handicaps to successful discussion as: (1) lack of needed facts; (2) unwillingness to face new facts; (3) closed minds 747. And resistance to new ideas; (4) love of argument for its own sake; (5) teacher domination; (6) the hobby rider. 3. How can we determine whether the lessons carry over from one month to another? Fssential points of the lesson are brought together in a blackboard summary by the teacher. These should be copied down by each member in a notebook. These are the things that must be reviewed, repeated and drilled upon. Whenever possible, activites should be suggested to help make the lesson a part of life's experiences. Then they become a part of the person and change life for the better. 4. How may a teacher improve her work? By critically evaluating her efforts in the light of her ideal of good performance, by constant study, by prayer, and by living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a teacher will continually improve her work.