+h Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 4 The Start And The Art Of Marriage (Tuesday, February 24, 1942) Lesson Aim: To emphasize the importance of a good start in marriage, and to show that the art of successful marriage hinges to a large degree upon the attitudes of its participants. THE start of any race has a lot to do with its outcome, and life's race is no exception. The intricacies and difficulties of modern living are many, and he who gets off on the wrong foot or makes a poor start will find himself severely handicapped all the way through. Who, When, and How to Marry Marriage commences with a definite ceremony, performed at a given time, and in conjunction with a chosen companion. The start of marriage for anyone involves these three things: another person, a time selected, and a ceremony performed; and if any one of these is not wisely decided upon, the marriage itself will likely get off to a bad start. We will not say more about the choice of a companion than has already been said in previous lessons, except to reemphasize the importance of rational judgment and serious consideration of such factors as chastity, dependability, health, disposition, industriousness, similar backgrounds and interests, et cetera. If one has used his head during courtship, and has chosen his mate intelligently as well as emotionally, that is the one he should marry But the time of marriage should receive careful consideration as well. The time of year is of little or no importance, to be sure, but the time of marriage in relation to the ages and the preparation of the bride and groom is very important. Personalities and situations vary so greatly, however, that even here it is difficult to lay down any rules. It is known, for example, that marriages are usually more successful if husband and wife are about the same age, or if the husband is a few years older. Matches in which the wife is older than the husband, or in which the husband is considerably older than the wife are not usually good marriage risks. But even so, there are cases in which this rule is broken, and happiness found in spite of it. It is also known that to delay marriage much beyond the time of biological 792 maturity and psychological preparedness is to put rather serious: strain upon the persons involved, and to decrease the chances of marriage in the first place, and successful adjustment in marriage where it is consummated. Marriage at a reasonably young age is desirable from a number of points of view. But here there are many exceptions, for young marriage may also mean hasty marriage based upon immature judgment. Furthermore, it may mean' lack of economic preparation; the young man of today should not hope to win his fortune before getting married, but certainly he should have something lined up in the way of a job or specific training for a job. The average ages for first marriages in this country for 1930 were 25.6 for males and 22.4 for females. We cannot say, of course, that these are the ideal ages for marriages, for many people have been successful in marriage who have deviated considerably from this average. What we can say is that the ideal age for marriage will depend to a very large extent upon the particular couple involved and the peculiar circumstances governing them. It is impossible to describe the ideal age in terms of years. The best time for marriage is when the persons involved are prepared?biologically, psychologically, economically, and socially. And where all of these conditions cannot be completely satisfied, the best time is when the most satisfactory balance can be found among them. The nature of the marriage ceremony is also of extreme importance. In this connection, we are safe in saying that church marriage, and especially temple marriage as Latter

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941

 day Saints know it, is much more likely to succeed than is the marriage which lacks the sobering and spiritualizing influence of religion. Burgess and Cottrell in their study of 526 couples, as already indicated in an earlier lesson, found that religion in the home, church attendance, and church marriage, were all associated with successful marriage and family life." In other words, religion is able to make the marriage contract sacred, and in this way cement and vitalize its relationships. The sanctification of marriage through the church makes it mean more to those who enter, makes them more firmly resolve that -it shall not fail. And there is no sanctification so deep and profound as temple marriage. Parents can do much to spiritualize the marriage preparation of their children. Home atmosphere is quite normally transplanted into the hearts of the children, and if this atmosphere is one of reverence and prayer over matters of courtship and marriage the children will naturally have a better chance than if it is not. Mothers especially can impress their children with the sacredness of the marriage covenant and the importance of entering into it with the right attitude and with a partner well chosen. Children should be guided during courtship, both as to conduct and as to their choice of associates. They should be helped to realize that courtship is a stepping stone to a greater adventure, and that if one's affections are given to someone who is unworthy, eternal marriage will Ernest W. Burgess and Leonard S. Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, pp, 357-359.
