President Amy Brown Lyman presided at the Thursday forenoon officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, and at the afternoon general session in the Tabernacle, which was open to all Relief Society officers and members, and the public. Page 729 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS Meeting Time and Place Chairman Attendance WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1941 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, g:30-10:10 a. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Visiting Teachers' Theology and Testimony Barratt Hall, 10:30 a. M.-12:00 V. R. McConkie 450 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, 1:30-2:15 p. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Literature Barratt Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. — Anna B. Hart 350 Social Science. 18th. Ward Chapel, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Anna S. Barlow 300 Music Assembly Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Florence J. Madsen 250 THuRsSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1941 Officers' Meeting General Session Changes in General Board Personnel At the general session of the conference, President Lyman announced, in the following words, changes in the personnel of the General Board since the April conference: "Since we met last we have been called upon to part with one of our General Board members, Sister Beatrice Farley Stevens, who contributed so much to the music of the organization. Sister Stevens is known far and wide for our stimulating rally song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong,' which has been sung in local branches all around the world, the words having been translated in a number of languages. She also composed and left for us a centennial song, called, 'A Song of Triumph,' which has been released at this conference. This was the last work she did, and it was completed only a few days before her death. "We are pleased to announce the appointment of two new Board members: Sisters Priscilla L. Evans and Florence Jepperson Madsen. Assembly Hall, 10:00 a. M.-12:15 Tabernacle, 2:00-4:00 p. M. President Lyman 1,010 President Lyman 6,000 Sister Evans is best known to Relief Society women as former president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission. She is at present corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States, Inc. Sister Madsen is professor of music at the Brigham Young University, and is one of the first musicians of our state and Church. I am sure we will all be happy to work with these two dear sisters."; Both new members participated in the conference program: Mrs. Evans addressed the general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, and Doctor Madsen, who is chairman of the General Board's music committee, conducted the music department and also led the congregational singing at the three officers' meetings and at the general session. In a brief impromptu talk at the close of the Thursday afternoon officers' meeting, Doctor Madsen urged Relief Society women to maintain high standards in music and literature, and to sing. She sugMessage 18th Ward Chapel, 10:30 a.m. Achsa E.