} HAPPEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Peace and gratitude—symbols of November! Never in all history have these two words been more significant. AMY BROWN LYMAN, President of the National Woman's Relief Society and internationally known social worker, states that her organization of approximately 100,- ooo women will make their chief activity the upbuilding and maintenance of well-regulated homes for all people. 'To do this, every effort will be put forth to provide and conserve every necessity—shelter, food, and clothing—for those in need during present and future emergencies. ELIZABETH BERGNER, Viennese star of the stage, is in America making her first picture, "Paris Calling." She is amused and confused over American slang and shocked to find her delicious wienerwursts called "hot dogs." INGRID BERGMAN, Swedish star, slipped unobtrusively into New York recently. Thinking she would like to witness her own portrayal of Anna Christy in "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," she stood in line with other patrons, bought her own ticket, and saw the play through without recognition. This is not quite the way of stars. JESSIE SCHOFIELD, director of recreation for Salt Lake City, has been made treasurer of the National Recreation Association for 1941-42. KATHERINE SIMMONS, of Munsing, Michigan, has been superintendent of municipal waterworks Page 774 for eleven years. She is believed to be the only woman in the nation to hold such a position. GERTRUDE BATTLES LANE, editor-in-chief of The Woman's Home Companion, died in late September. Miss Lane was one of the great women magazine editors. She edited The Woman's Home Companion for 29 years, beginning when she was eighteen years old at a salary of $18 a week. She never asked for a raise, but at the time of her death she was earning $52,000 a year. MARGARET LEECH in her brilliant new novel of Civil War times, Reveille in Washington, introduces many famous and wellknown figures. Other books of interest for fall reading written by women are: One Red Rose Forever, by Mildred Jordan; The Talk of the Town, by Ann Pinchot; I'll Sing One Song, by Willie Snow Ethridge; Christopher Strange, by Ruth Eleanor McKee—a story of early Califor. Nia; and a Death Valley story, The Shadow of the Arrow, by Margaret Long. EMILY TRAUB MERRILL, EIlen Watson Silver, Elizabeth Stanford Goddard, Elizabeth Guthtie Heywood, Mina Cannon Ellis, Rose Robison, and Mrs. Francis Kirkham, all outstanding Utah women beloved for their cultural and kindly qualities, died during the late fall.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 - - President - First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Leona F. Wintch Florence J. Madsen Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman