Eneral Session Thursday Afternoon Message From President Heber J. Grant IF my health would permit, it would be a great pleasure for me to express in person my appreciation and approval of the work which the sisters of the Relief Society are doing ligion and teaching her children to do likewise is a great strength to the Church, and will receive the blessings of the Lord. It is important that the Gospel be taught in the home, both by precept and by example. 'The influence of the mother in doing this is very effective. It will be one hundred years next March since the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society in Nauvoo. Your efforts to enroll in your organization 100,000 A faithful mother living her remembers when it is one hundred years old appeals to me. I have confidence in the ability of the sisters to do this. May you be constantly sustained and inspired in your efforts to bring to every Latter-day Saint home the blessings and privileges of this great organization. From my earliest childhood, before I could even understand what was being discussed, my mother (being a widow and I her only child) took me with her to the meetings of the Relief Society. At one of these meetings while I was playing on the floor in the home of William C. Staines, who lived on the corner of South Temple and Fifth East Streets, Eliza R. Snow, by the gift of tongues, blessed me and promised RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that I would become an apostle. The interpretation was given by Zina D. Young. My mother always told me, from my childhood on, as I became old enough to understand, that if I would behave myself and live a good clean life, I would yet become an apostle. Whenever she mentioned it, I always laughed and told her, "Every mother thinks her boy is going to be something wonderful; get it out of your head, because I have no desire to become a leading Church man, I want some day to become a businessman." Throughout my youth and young manhood she continued to refer to the fact that unless I lived a good clean life, I never would become an apostle. After I became an apostle, having been called to that office by revelation, she asked me if I remembered the meeting which was attended by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, and I told her I did, that though I was only a small child at the time, I remembered it. "Do you remember what was said?" "I did not hear anything Sister Snow said, because I could not understand her." Mother said, "Of course you could not; she spoke by the gift of tongues. But do you remember what Sister Zina Young said?" I replied, "Yes. She said I would grow to be a great big man, and since I have grown up, I have often thought of it." "She didn't say anything of the kind! She said you would become 765 a big man in the Church, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ." I said, "I did not understand it that way." Mother then said, "Now that you are an apostle, do you remember a great dinner, with many people present, given in the home of Heber C. Kimball, on Main Street?" "Yes." "Do you remember a dinner for the children after the big dinner, and he picked you up and stood you on the table, and stood there and prophesied that you would become one of the leaders in the Church, a greater man than your father, who had been one of the Presidency of the Church?" "I do not remember anything he said; all I recall of the incident was that he had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and I was scared while he was talking to me." I thought it would be well for the Relief Society sisters to know that by the gift of tongues in a Relief Society meeting, and by the prophecy of one of the Presidency of the Church, it was declared while I was yet a child that I should some day be one of the leading men in the Church. I may have told this before in my talks to the Relief Society, but | it is worthy of being repeated again at this time. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel, and all who are engaged in building up the Church and Kingdom of God on the earth.