Ee General Conference Message [XN a world topsy-turvey with bickerings, animosities, hatreds and raging wars, with thousands of people the world over wondering which course to pursue to promote their own best interests and the well-being of their fellow men, Latter-day Saints should indeed be grateful to be privileged to assemble in general conference and have their faith tenewed, their spirits lifted, and the path of right clearly defined. At the recent conference, our venerable President, Heber J. Grant, rich in experience, chosen of God to lead this Church, admonished us 35 Page 776 with his characteristic vigor to seek the Lord, to obey His laws and to keep His commandments. While expressing a tenderness toward those who are weak and erring, he called upon all to repent and to walk in the ways of righteousness. Individual righteousness was the plea of our revered President. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., focused our attention upon our responsibilities to our families. Decrying the lack of direction that many of our children are experiencing, he called upon parents to set their homes in order. Parents, he explained, are mature, experienced individuals; they know the ways of the world and the consequences of evil better than do their children. Children, he said, need and want ditection; they want to be told what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 they may do and what they may not do. Parents should unhesitatingly assume this responsibility. President David O. McKay saw in the present turmoil a need to eradicate hate in the world and to curb tempers. He called upon the Saints to meet this obligation to their fellow men. The message of the conference might be summarized as follows: Serve God and keep his commandments, look well to your own households, and seek the peace and wellbeing of your fellow men. This is not a new message. It is a message that Latter-day Saints have heard time and time again. It is a message given by Christ nearly 2,000 years ago, but that it is still sorely needed in today's troubled world none can dispute.