May the peace and blessings of heaven abide in your homes and fill your hearts with a love for mankind and for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Opening Address General President Amy Brown Lyman HIS afternoon in this general session we extend to you dear sisters greetings and a hearty welcome. We want you to know that we appreciate you and the splendid work you are doing in the local units. We appreciate your interest and devotion to our cause, and the efforts you are putting forth in the interest of the great Church welfare plan. It is your devotion and your work which make the development and success of the Relief Society possible, and which are a great - factor in the success of the welfare plan. Since our last conference, world tragedies have increased in connection with the social revolution which is raging in Europe; and because many of our fellow members, near 10,000, are living and suffering in these war-torn countries, our hearts are especially touched. We would have them know that they are remembered today in this conference, that they have our love and sympathy and our earnest prayers that they may be able to meet with faith and courage the trials with which they are faced. In letters from Europe, we learn that the Relief Society members are carrying on nobly. In some places they are the chief factor in holding the branches together. They are even conducting branch meetings, where men, both old and young, have been called into service. Only about once a month, however, when members of the Priesthood on leave can attend, do they have the blessing of the sacrament. In our own country we wonder what lies ahead. As we try to look into the future we cannot be other than apprehensive. Already we feel the effects of the preparations which are being made for national defense. In times like these, we try to formulate and adopt some philosophy which will help us to face our problems with composure and help us to be more effective in our lives. An excellent piece of advice which we have repeatedly had from our Church leaders, and which always applies, is that each individual should put his house in order. This advice seems especiaNy appropriate today. Professor Levi Edgar Young, in an article in this September Relief. Society Magazine, quotes from the recent inaugural address of the Governor of Vermont. The Governor said, among other things, "Tf America is to be saved, each individual must first put his own house in order." He urged a spiritual reconstruction of the people as a prerequisite to the economic and moral salvation of the nation. Dr. Edward T. Devine, eminent social worker, contends that "The first thing to do to improve conditions in the world today locally, nationally, and internationally, is to set our own houses in order. If in the family, neighborhood, and community we meet our problems, it will be easier for us to meet world problems. The home front should be recognized as just as important as the front line. It has been demonstrated time and again that the endurance and morale of people in all walks of life and in all times and seasons, is built on the security of 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the home and family." This philosophy indicates that home and family standards, ideals, and influence in the community and the nation are finally among the determining factors in many great movements. In contemplating the idea of putting one's house in order we naturally think first, as we should, in terms of the spiritual, for spirituality and religion should be fundamental to all else; we believe that spirituality and religion are the greatest dynamics known to man. It is religion, spirituality, and faith which help people to understand the sacredness of human personality and the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and which help them to face the vicissitudes of life. Our sacred books are replete with ideal patterns of living and standards of conduct for us to follow—the decalogue, the Sermon on the Mount, other teachings of the Savior, and modern revelation. THERE is another bit of good advice which we have had from our leaders both in times of prosperity and in times of adversity, in dark days and bright, and which relates especially to practical living. It is that we should avoid debt — live within our income and save for the future. This advice seems especially appropriate today. With work more plentiful than it has been for some time and with wages good, it would be a wise thing for us to get out of debt and to lay by something for the future. In times of prosperity preparations should be made for the non-prosperous period. There are those who say that it does not pay to save, that money is so often lost. Nevertheless, thrift 167 is considered by wise philosophers as a great asset, and as one of life's greatest character builders. At this time, when so much is at stake, when thrift instead of extravagance is going to mean so much in the end, not only to us, but to generations to come, it should be one of the most important subjects for discussion. Nothing is more valuable than a fixed habit of thrift. While some thrifty people have lost their savings or have been taken advantage of, they will tell you that the cultivation of this virtue has helped them to overcome many obstacles on the way back. It is surely not the part of wisdom to launch out into risky enterprises at this time, or to purchase on installment things which are unnecessary. Let us understand that this spurt of prosperity is in reality abnormal and probably short-lived. Great expenditures of money for defense or for war may diminish unemployment temporarily, but it will not dissolve it. Someone has wisely said, only recently, "War spending is not prosperity: it is the impoverishing of the future by the dissipation of the wealth of the past, and the mortgaging of the present." I wonder if some of us are taking on burdens and obligations which we will not be able to meet. Are we buying things we do not really need? Are we paying too much for homes or for rent? Economists tell us that if we are paying more than double or more than 2'4 times our yearly income for a home we are paying too much, and unless we receive help from somebody else, we will eventually come to grief. For example, if a man who must depend entirely upon himself earns a yearly salary 768 of $2,000, he cannot afford to buy a home which costs more than $4,000, or $4,500 at the most. If he goes beyond this, he will surely be in financial difficulty. We are also advised that we should pay only 18 percent to 20 percent of our yearly or monthly income for rent. For instance, a man whose income is $150 per month, should not pay more than $27 to $30 per month for rent. If his income is $100 per month, he should not pay more than $18 to $20. If he pays at a higher rate than this, some other essential will suffer, such as food, clothing, or health needs. New women are the homemakers. The homemaker is looked upon these days not only as someone who creates a comfortable place to come -home to, but as the great consumer of the world. Eighty-five percent of the buying is done by women, including practically all the things to be used in the home. This means a tremendous enlargement of our responsibilities. Walter Pitkin, the writer, says: "Consumers must be _ educated. Hardly one American in ten thousand knows what and how to buy. Every year women spend and misspend twenty billion dollars or more. Fully a quarter of this vast sum is wasted. Those women know. The price of everything and the value of nothing.' Few consistently get their money's worth. What can we do? Educate consumers by: (1) show

 

 ing them how to identify quality in everything from a hamburger steak to a fur coat; (2) demonstrating by case and number that high price doesn't mean high quality; (3) showing that pretty packages often contain shoddy goods; (4) teaching families to make incomes go further with intelligent budgeting. The list is endless." Anticipating the need for careful buying and managing in these days, Relief Society has recently inaugu- 'rated a course in "Better Buymanship." I trust we shall get some practical help from this course. Our whole Church welfare program is a practical demonstration of the slogan, "Put your own house in order." The plan has a long-time program with a general objective or aim, and with permanent goals in view. It also has today an immediate aim—that of preparing for a probable post-war depression which past experience predicts will come. In helping to achieve these aims and objectives the Relief Society will not be found wanting. In conclusion I would like to urge that we, Relief Society workers, » in these strenuous months ahead do not lose sight of the important fact that the physical, moral, and spiritual standards of our homes and our communities must not be let down or lost sight of, but must be held up and even strengthened. For the days ahead let us adopt our conference theme: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap if we faint not."