Highlights And Sidelights In Membership Zora C. Paulson Highland Stake Relief Society President LAST April when we attended Relief Society general conference, we thought our stake needed about 45 more members in order to reach its membership quota. Imagine our disillusionment and astonishment when we looked at the pictograph and found we had 629 new members to gain. Naturally we were worried, but we resolved to put forth our very best efforts to make a decided change in our membership status during the remaining months of the campaign. With this determination in mind, we went to our April union meeting with some definite plans. We graphically told our wards where we stood, and explained our summer's work. Wards were anxious to do their part. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A special membership meeting in May, as was requested. By the General Board, was held with splendid results. Presidencies and coordinators were invited and were asked to be prepared to give tentative plans for their summers membership work. Stake officers also prepared a detailed list of specific suggestions for increasing membership, and a talk was given on "Why Increase Relief Society Membership?" Plans made and suggestions given were not just left on paper, but were immediately put into effect. This meeting gave us so much help and inspiration that the same workers decided to meet at ten o'clock the third Tuesday of each month during the summer, report progress, exchange new ideas and _ methods of procedure. These meetings have been very profitable. The intensive summers work shows some gratifying highlights; for example, in one of our wards forty new members have been enrolled. The visiting teachers of another of our wards met one Tuesday to start their special work in connection with the campaign. A short rally was held, and teachers were instructed to visit every home in the ward. When they returned to report that afternoon, they had enlisted 26 new members; 36 other women had promised to join the Society this fall. In another ward, g homes were visited one morning with a gain of 6 new members. Tuesday, October 2, most of our wards had entertainments in the interest of membership, such as a women's convention, a luncheon, an "at home" social, a reception, et cetera. Written invitations were sent to 763 every woman in the wards. The response was beyond expectation; some wards had 50 or more unenrolled women attend. At the close of - one of these luncheons 125 women paid their dues; 40 of these women enrolled as new members. Through all our membershipbuilding program we have emphasized as our main objective sharing the intellectual and spiritual wealth of Relief Society with mote sisters. Our visiting teachers have been urged to carry the Magazine when visiting and to leave copies with interested unenrolled members, to be called for at a later date. During the summer, executive officers and coordinators have gone visiting with the visiting teachers, the group first meeting in the morning prior to making their visits. They have had a song and prayer and received helpful membership instructions for the day. Then all have gone out at the same time to make their visits. When visits were finished, the women returned to the Church, reported their accomplishments, and were served a refreshing drink and cookies. There have been significant sidelights. One ward has had a series of luncheons carrying out the following procedure: For the first luncheon, ten guests were invited—eight members and two prospective members. The eight members, in groups of two were asked to entertain from four to six more prospective members. This continued until all of those not belonging to the Society had been entertained. Small groups made it possible for the women to become really acquainted. The benefits of Relief Society were stressed at each luncheon. Early in May another ward had its 764 coordinator visit the Priesthood meeting, with the approval of the bishop, and give an interesting talk on Relief Society during the opening exercises. She presented each. Man and boy with an invitation to give to some unenrolled woman— the mother in his own home or a neighbor. Many of our coordinators have since visited the Priesthood meetings for the purpose of enlisting the help of the brethren in our membership campaign. All of the fruits of our efforts will not be gathered in our own stake. Such stories as the following let us know they are being garnered elsewhere in the Church: A lady living in an apartment 

 

 house was enlisted, attended twice and moved from the stake. She wrote the Relief Society president: "Tam glad you introduced me to Relief Society. I attend regularly now and thoroughly enjoy it." We have had various ways of advertising the campaign; for example, slogans in the Church foyer (changed often), badges, and campaign pins. Through the intensive efforts of the past few months, we have entolled about twice as many as were enrolled in the three previous years. With the enthusiasm that is felt throughout the stake, we feel reasonably sure we will go "over the top." ce.