Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 5 Some Humorous Characters (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) "Mark Twain for the last ten years of his life sat on a golden throne as a crowned King of Humor."?Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Humor of character Outstanding humorous characters in literature Review of Last Lesson In lesson four, the nature and purpose of satire were discussed. It was pointed out that the purpose of many of the greatest masterpieces of satire is to reform. In this connection, the work of the great Greek comedian Aristophanes was considered, emphasis being placed on his wish to call the attention of his fellow countrymen to the weaknesses and the vices which were destroying the glory of Greece. Others who wrote with the same purpose?that of reform?were mentioned: Shakespeare, Moliere, Chaucer, Swift, as well as some of the more recent essayists and playwrights. Humor arising from incongruous situations was discussed and illustrations were given from actual life and from literature. Humor of Character Just as humor growing out of situation is of a more advanced or intellectual type than that resting upon strange uses of words or unusual combinations of ideas and facts, so humor of character is higher than that of situation, A humorous character is one who has traits or characteristics?physical or mental? which do not logically go together. Again we come to the fundamental element in all humor, that of the incongruous. We expect a huge man to have a deep voice. If we hear an effeminate protest from a giant, we laugh. If a delicate woman exhibits strong masculine characteristics, again we are struck with the paradox. Aristophanes makes Dionysus (or Bacchus) a humorous character in The Frogs by representing him as small, "pot-bellied," and dressed in cheap grandeur. In addition to the ridiculousness of the physical appearance, he makes him cowardly compared to his slave, and at times with less sense and wit. These characteristics are out of keeping with the usual conception of a god. The modern drama, Amphitryon, popular recently on the New York stage, has the same type of humorous characters. We are amused to seek the Greek gods and godesses in the guise of everyday mortals, exhibiting ordinary human emotions and resorting to common-place trickeries to achieve their desires. Sometimes the humor of a character lies in his unusual manner of speech, his pet phrases repeated Page 785 786 over and over, or in some habit or attitude which the author emphasizes. In the play You Can't Take It With You, each character has some eccentricity which makes him humorous and adds to the humor of the situations in the play and to the humor of the satire the drama embodies; for example, there is the mother with her desire to be a writer simply because a typewriter had been left by mistake at the home, and the daughter with her passion for dancing whenever she moves. Josh Billings, Mr. Dooley,. The Autocrat, from The Autocrat of the. Breakfast Table, Uncle Remus, The Spectator, Sir Roger de Coverley are all humorous characters as well known to many readers as are real people. Mr. Dooley is the creation of Finley Peter Dunne, an Irish-American journalist of Chicago. Mr. Dooley was a great favorite of a generation back, a philosopher with an Irish brogue, who gave delight because. Of his humorous way of talking and the quaintness of his views. A few lines from "Mr. Dooley on the Philippines" will give an idea of his character. "I know what I'd do if I was Mack (McKinley)," said Mr. Hennessy. "I'd histe a flag over the Phillipeens an' I'd take in the whole lot iv thim." "An' yet," said Mr. Dooley, "It is not more thin two months since ye learned whether they were islands or canned goods.... Suppose ye was standin' at the corner iv State Street an' Archey R-road, wud ye ask to know what car to take to get to th' Philippeens? If yer son Packy was to ask ye where the Ph'lippeens is, cud ye give him any good idea whether they was in Rooshia or jus' west iv the thracks?... Wan iv the worst things about this here war is the way its makin' puzzles fr our poor tired heads." Josh Billings is the pseudonym him to establish himself 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941

 for Henry W. Shaw who lived from 1818 to 1885. His education was cut short in his sophomore year when he was expelled from Hamilton College for removing the clapper from the chapel bell. He wandered about the country for a number of years doing odd jobs, then he began to write "pieces" for newspapers. 'Through this activity he met Artemus Ward who helped "qn the world of funny men." He began giving humorous lectures, patterning both his publicity and his performances upon Ward's own technique. One of his favorite lectures was on "Skim Milk." He gave it hundreds of times. Among the group of humorous characters of the Mr. Dooley and Josh Billings type, so popular in America during the period of the Civil War, one was supreme. That was Artemus Ward, whose real name was Charles Farrar Browne (1834-1867). Mr. Browne did not create a fictitious character as Dunne and Shaw did, but retained his own identity. Critics say it is impossible to separate his work from his personality, for the two go together. Someone has said that "around his memory a loving world twined a garland of affection as for a lost child." That he was a favorite of Abraham Lincoln has already been mentioned, and reference has been made to one of his chapters which Lincoln read to his cabinet on the morning of September 22, 1862, before presenting to them the important Emancipation Proclamation. This incident illustrates the place of humorous literature in the lives of great men and the place of Ward as a humorous character. The LESSON DEPARTMENT chapter from the new book which Ward had sent the President was entitled "High-handed Outrage at Utica," from which a few lines have already been quoted in Lesson 2. Artemus Ward, with a method all his own, was tremendously successful as a platform entertainer. He not only traveled through the United States with his show, but went to Europe where he was given a triumphant reception. Great Humorous Characters of Literature The characters mentioned above in connection with the humor arising out of character are not all truly characters of literature. Most of them are the authors themselves more or less fictionized. But in the literature of the world, there are a number of great humorous characters with whom every person of education and culture should be acquainted, just as they should know the great romantic and tragic characters in literature. To know Ulysses, Achilles, Iphigenia, Media, Oedipus, Helen of Troy, Faust, Marguerite, Hamlet, Othello, Ophelia, Polonius, Desdemona, Lear, Kent, Cordelia, Portia, Shylock, Orlando, Jaques, Tartuffe, Adam Bede, Sidney Carton, Becky Sharp, and other characters that literature stands ready to present to you is like knowing a host of interesting people who enrich your lives, amuse you, and add happiness to your days. A few of the humorous characters, important to know, have already been mentioned?Gargantua, created by Rabelais; Falstaff, presented by Shakespeare; and some others. But they have companions who are equally worth knowing. Madame Malaprop 787 in Sheridan's delightful comedy, The Rivals, will always make you chuckle; just as Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair is the epitome of all scheming women, so Mrs. Malaprop is the embodiment of all those halfeducated, self-satisfied individuals who, in attempting to show off their superiority, make themselves ridiculous through their misuse of their mother tongue. She is famous for (quoting her own words) her "'oracular tongue and nice derangement of epitaphs." One of the characters in the play calls her "the old weather-beaten she-dragon whose ridiculous vanity makes her dress up her coarse features and deck her dull chat with hard words which she doesn't understand." To this indictment she cries: "There sir! An attack on my language... An aspersion upon my parts of speech.... If I reprehend anything in this world it is the use of my oracular tongue." She says her niece is as headstrong as "an allegory on the banks of the Nile." In commending a suitor to Lydia, she says, "He's so well bred... So full of alacrity and adulation... His phisogonmy so grammatical!" Excited that her plans are not working out, she exclaims, "Here's fine suicide, paracide, and salivation going on in the fields, and Sir Anthony not to be found to prevent the antistrophe." She tells Lydia that someone else can inform her of the "perindiculars." Another speech is, "Come, gitls, this gentlemen will exhort us; come, sir, you're our envoy?lead the way. We'll precede." One of her most humorous speeches is that in which she gives her views on the ideal education for a young girl. "I would by no means wish a daughter of mine to be a progeny of learning; I don't think so much learning becomes a young woman. For instance, I would never let her meddle with Greek or Hebrew, or algebra, or simony, or fluxions, or patadoxes, or such inflammatory branches of learning?neither would it be necessary for her to handle any of your mathematical, astronomical, diabolical instruments. But, Sir Anthony, I would send her, at nine years old, to a boarding school in order to learn a little ingenuity and artifice. Then, sir, she should have a supercilious knowledge in accounts;... And as she grew up, I would have her instructed in geometry, that she might know something of the contagious countries;... But above all, Sir Anthony, she should be mistress of orthodoxy, that she might not misspell and mispronounce words so shamefully as girls usually do; and likewise that she might reprehend the true meaning of what she is saying.... This, Sir Anthony, is what I would have a woman know...?." To be fully appreciated, any of the great characters in literature must be seen through the entire novel or play which presents them. We can only know Ruggles by reading Harry Leon Wilson's Ruggles of Red Gap (or seeing the movie based on it). We can only know how funny Mr. Jeeves is by following him entirely through the situations E. P. Wodehouse has invented for him. The same is true of Falstaff, Mr. Pickwick, Don Quixote, Monsieur Jourdain, Tartarin; in fact, any of the humorous characters it would delight us to know. Only a few points can be given here in the hope that a fuller acquaintance will be made with them later. Mr. Pickwick has been mentioned before; space will allow little more to be said of him. One critic points out that by comsummate art, Dickens sends Pickwick walking through life conveying with him the contrast between life as it might be and life as it is. Through his humor as well as his pathos, Dickens did much to remove the injustices and cruelties of his day by bringing about more humane legislation. He wrote with intense social purpose in all of his novels. The humor in the character of Pickwick lies largely in the incongruities of his character. He thinks he is a great scientist in his discoveries and in his manner of writing up his observations. But there is only emptiness back of his pomp of scholarship. Then, too, his solemn manner in all that. He does is out of keeping with his appearance. He maintains this manner always, even when he puts his hat over his nightcap and bows himself ceremoniously out of Miss Witherfield's room, which he had entered by mistake and where he had gone to bed. Likewise, when he is giving Mr. Magnus detailed procedure on how to propose, his solemnity and dignity help to make what he does laughable. Pickwick's character grows through the various adventures he encounters. Mr. Leacock says that at first he is almost a burlesque figure. "Then as his amiability leads him to misadventure after misadventure he becomes stronger and more real, until he finally shows great strength, but is none the less humorous when he goes to jail rather than marry Mrs. Bardall. Through all the unfolding of his character there is a warm glow of human kindness. It is the ability to incorporate this quality into his humor which makes Dickens one of the greatest comic writers of the world." "Dickens did with laughter and 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT smiles what other social reformers attempt to do with denunciation." Tartarin in Daudet's Tartarin of Tarascon is another high ranking humorous character. He is very much like the people of Dickens, though different from any one but himself. He is a giant in physique and physical strength. In fact, he is such a glorious specimen of perfect physical manhood that this goes to his head. The basis of the humor in his case is the contrast between his strong appearance and his veritable weakness?his delusion of greatness on one hand, and his innate cowardice on the other. Daudet seems to be satirizing in this story the tendency of the people of southern France in the nineteenth century to lie and exaggerate and bluff; to live in a world of makebelieve instead of a world of reality. Stephen Leacock says that the Tartarin people live on delusions of' grandeur. They live among grapes and flowers in a sort of permanent armistice night. Don Quixote, another of our amusing galaxy, is a reflector of an attitude in Spain following the days of chivalry. Cervantes is protesting in his novel against the persistence of literature to glorify a social system which has served its purpose, degenerated, and passed. This novel provides another example of the power of humor as a social force. It has been said that this book helped "to return to sanity the mind of a continent still a little delirious." The hero, Don Quixote, has read so much about knightly conduct toward maidens in distress, and about the stirring adventures of knights who sought to free the world from sin, that his head becomes a little 789 turned. He decides to set off on a pilgrimage to right wrong. He is a grotesque figure, long, lean and sallow, on a rake of a horse, dressed in queer garb, and accompanied by Sancho Panza, his "comic relief," rotund and practical. He chooses for his lady an inn keeper, as grotesque as he himself. Cervantes makes this romance ridiculous by showing how poor a figure chivalry cuts when dragged into the light. The two main characters act as a foil to each other. Don Quixote is all idealism and dreams; Sancho is all earthly reality. Idealism should never falter, but it needs reality to keep its feet on the ground. The humor lies both in the incongruities of the characters and in the ridiculous adventures they encounter. Don fights with windmills, thinking they are giants; he mistakes two herds of sheep for armies ready for battle. He frees criminals about to be punished only to have them turn savagely upon him. The second part of the book leaves the burlesque of the first and shows development in the characters, who are, however, fundamentally the same. Don still tries to carry out his great purpose and still fails, as we see in his encounter with the lion and in his episode with the puppet show. When he spoils a perfectly good puppet show, he awakens to a sense of disillusionment. Though the novel is a comedy of character and situation, it is a tragedy of disillusionment?like the tragedies in the lives of people who fight for lost causes and awaken to a realization of their futility. The great value of the book, transcending its fine humor, is the nobility 790 shown in the way Don Quixote lives and dies. In both he is the pattern of the perfect gentleman, as he sees it. He meets his disillusionment with the same courage that he meets the imagined giants. He is true to his ideals. Also he is helped by his association with the practical Sancho, just as Sancho, though he can never understand Don, is ennobled by his idealism. Among the world's known and accepted characters of humor, Huckleberry Finn has been designated as the smallest, humblest, and yet the greatest. Mark Twain is one of the best known, throughout the world, of all American men of letters. Opie Read says, "Other humorists may be a chuckle, but he is a ha ha. He is a burst of mirth, a compeller of merriment, an explosive of dignity." The general opinion is that Huckleberry Finn is far superior to any other of Mark Twain's books. It seems, admirers of the author say, to have written itself. He threw the manuscript aside for a long time, but later salvaged it and gave us "the highwater reach in humor." Stephen Leacock claims that this book elevates humor beyond the comic and the accidental "to that high reach in which our human lot itself invites at once our tears and our smiles." Huckleberry Finn was published in 1884 and ever since has been regarded as one of the world's books. Mark Twain had long dreamed of writing the story of an outcast boy whom he would send floating down the Mississippi on a raft with a negro companion. Part of his purpose was to write something that would give him a chance to paint the glory of the river. But he wanted also to write a story in which the 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941

 world could be seen through humble characters. And he succeeded in both purposes. There is a vastness to his background. There is the incongtuity of life in the contrast between the unsullied soul of little Huck, and his rage and chewing tobacco. He and his companions give us types of humor from the lowest to the highest "when tears are mingled with laughter, when the ridiculous merges into the sublime." Problems and Projects 1. Illustrate the difference between humor of situation and humor of character, and point out how humor is enhanced when the two are combined. 2, Discuss the nature of the humor in the "Sir Roger de Coverley Papers." Read excerpts to illustrate. 3. Compare some of the humorous essays of Addison, Steele, or other early writers with modern humorous essays. Which do you enjoy most? Why? 4. Read books presenting at least two of the humorous characters of literature discussed in the lesson to get a fuller acquaintance with them, then determine which type gives you the greatest pleasure and the reasons why. Present your report to the class. 5- Do you know people like any of the humorous characters discussed? What of practical value to yourself can you learn from such real or created characters? Supplementary Readings Shakespeare, Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor. Sheridan, The Rivals. L Dickens, Pickwick Papers: Moliere, Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme. Cervantes, Don Quixote. Mark Twain, Huckleberry Finn. Guide To Pronunciation Moliere (Mal y?r') Iphigenia (if? Ij u ni' t) Patruchio (patru' kio) Tartuffe (Tar toof', tar' tiffe') Jaques (ja' kw?z - kwiz) LESSON DEPARTMENT Gargantua (gar gan' tii u) Cervantes (sur van' tus) Don Quixote (d6n' kwik' sut, | d?n' k? ho ta) 791 Rabelais (rab' u 14, ra bu 14') Achilles (A kil' l?z) Medea (m? d?' u) Oedipus (?d' i pus, ?d' i pis) The Deseret Book Company has reported that its special edition of The Greatest Pages of American Humor, by Leacock, is exhausted and will not be reprinted.