Public Conversation—'Let's Talk It Over" Presented by Mary G. Judd, Alice B. Castleton, Anna B. Hart, and Irma Bitner. HE conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," was presented for the purpose of suggesting suitable methods of teaching the lessons on humor RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE as well as appropriate activities which might be engaged in in connection with these lessons. The conversation occasionally applied the method suggested to specific lessons. It pointed out that. The lessons in humor were primarily planned to help release present-day tensions and to help establish habits of cheerfulness in our children. The conversation itself demonstrated a method that might find a place in a literature class period. The following helpful suggestions were brought out in "'Let's 'Talk it Over": 1. Assign one member of the class the responsibility of bringing to class an example of a certain type of humor. Ask some one else to explain why we laugh at this. 2. Let a class member dramatize an actual humorous situation. This might lead to more pretentious humorous dramatizations. 3. A number of humorous characters of literature might be presented in the form of a panel discussion; for example, five or six characters might be assigned to five or six different women. The teacher, acting as chairman, would draw out information 749 about these characters through questions. 4. 'Selected humorous subjects might be assigned to small committees. The group would then get together at least one afternoon to prepare the report for class presentation. 5. An appropriate humorous story, song or picture might be used at the beginning of the class period to create a joyful mood. 6. Choice, well-selected cartoons or pictures which tell a humorous story might be shown on a bulletin board or blackboard.. 7. Everyday humorous sayings or situations might be collected and a scrapbook made. 8. Women might discuss their hobbies that touch on humor. G. Several weeks in advance of the lesson, choice humorous selections might be assigned to be memorized and presented to the class. 10. Women who are clever writers might read some of their own humorous compositions. 11. At the first literature lesson, cards might be passed out. On one side of the card women might indicate their own talents; on the other side, the talents of others in the class. 12. In making assignments, a paper might be passed which lists all of the assignments to be made. Women might be asked to sign their names opposite the assignment they are willing to accept.