Stimulation Of Testimony Bearing In Relief Society Edith S. Elliott Relief Society General Board Member FOLLOWING each theology lesson period we have a precious fifteen minutes when Relief Society class members are given the opportunity to bear their testimonies. __ The most important reason for studying the Gospel of Jesus Christ is to gain a testimony of its great truths. The word Gospel is so often used as a general term. Do those of us who use it understand all of the divisions that go into making up the whole? It is our hope that by studying the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Relief Society women will understand these various elements which are the necessary parts of the Gospel. We may look upon these Articles as the thirteen foundation stones for the building of testimonies. Many women feel shy about standing on their feet to express their more serious thoughts. This is particularly true in Fast meeting. Some women are too timid to arise where members of the Priesthood are present. So how fine it is that a sister can stand among her friends and neighbors in Relief Society and tell of God's goodness! We seldom miss the opportunity to discuss freely some great pleasure which has come our way—a vacation trip, a new house, an unusual recipe, a gift, or even style trends. Yet, when it comes to speaking of spiritual matters we get a lump in our throats and our thoughts freeze before we can voice them. Why can't we feel as free to discuss the spiritual as we do to discuss the material things of life? We can, if we will just convince ourselves that the one is as easily expressed as the other; further, our beliefs are strengthened when they are expressed verbally. 742 Our Heavenly Father is pleased when we bear witness of his goodness to us. He tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 62:3: "Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you." There are those of our sisters who have said, "I don't know that I have a testimony." Others have said, "How do I know whether or not I have a testimony?" I think all Latter-day Saint women have a testimony. Let any one criticize the Gospel or any of its teachings and there swells up within us an urge to defend and explain the points under fire. In this, I feel certain that we all have the elements of a testimony. The Lord is glad to help us secure spiritual knowledge, for he says, "Seek and ye shall find.- Knock and it shall be opened unto you." If we want to study chemistry, physics, or any of the other exact sciences, we plan to set aside a given amount of time for research and learning. If we want to be accomplished in any of the fields of art, we systematically map out a plan of activity that will help us to achieve our goal. Yet there are some of us who would like a knowledge of spiritual truths, and still we do little to secure it. We progress in any course only in so far as we prepare ourselves to achieve in that course. Our fellow men in large numbers expect the Lord to open the heavens 

 

 and give them a personal manifestation. They ask for a sign or a miracle. In the theology text, Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, the. Author gives a very enlightening treatise on miracles in the chapter entitled "Spiritual Gifts." He writes that we shouldn't look to miracles for proof of divine teachings. He points out that the adversary also has the gift of performing miracles and generously displays his art to deceive and confuse mankind. Inasmuch as we can't always rely upon miracles, we should gather fact after fact and truth upon truth, and with these we can build a bulwark strong and invulnerable to any destroying power. We must keep in mind that a Gospel testimony is a living thing. It may be compared to a fine rose bush which must be cultivated, fertilized, watered and pruned—one which must be guarded as to light and temperature in order to produce lovely blossoms. If any detail of care is left undone the bush either dies or retrogrades into a_ wild, thorny, undesirable shrub without value or beauty. So with a testimony—it must be nurtured, safeguarded and added to, or it will die. Relief Society sisters should safeguard their testimonies and help others to gain one. We read in John 3:33: "He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true." And for witnessing this, we may be heirs to our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings.  Officers Meeting Wednesday Afternoon RoundTable Discussion Conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Dr. Bennion: Our assignment is to discuss some of the recurring problems in the teaching of Relief Society classes. I am going to ask Sister Jones to suggest a problem she has encountered. Gwen Jones: In our present campaign for membership, we expect to enroll young matrons of 20 and grandmothers of 7o and 75. Will our classes be interesting to all of these age groups? Dr. Bennion: That is a very pettinent question. I will ask Sister Hyde to give us her opinion on this. Florence I. Hyde: Many of our older women, whose children are married, feel that the lessons have more purpose in the lives of young women who are rearing children. Therefore, I believe it is important for teachers to make an effort to show these women what the lessons can do for them. In the first place, I feel that we can very easily convert them to the fact that any knowledge is worthwhile, and that the knowledge of the things our lessons are designed to teach is very important because of its cultural value. I feel that the lessons have a very practical value for older members, for, after all, grandmothers do have a part in the rearing of their grandchildren, and a knowledge of psychology, theology, and literature, in fact all of the subjects which we teach, will give them greater wisdom in solving problems that may come up in relation to their grandchildren. I remember as one of the richest experiences of my life my grandmother reading stories to her grandchildren, telling of her experiences, and singing some of the old songs that mothers of today do not know. I feel that an effort should be made on the part of every teacher to make her members feel that they have a place of great importance in the plan of life. Dr. Bennion: How can you determine the age of a woman—the intellectual age? Thelma J. Ryser: Very often a woman is young at 65 or 70, or she may be old at 50. I believe it is a good idea to break down the barrier of age. Very often a clash of ideas will bring forth participation from women of all ages. Dr. Bennion: Do you feel that the writers of the lessons had this problem in mind as they wrote? Do you think they made a universal appeal in their writings? Mae S. Best: I think the material does appeal to every age group. There is enough variety in our lesson material to satisfy all. Dr. Bennion: Is there any problem that you have in mind, Sister Best? Mae S.