% Social Science Department Supplementary Reading Material Pauline T. Pingree Relief Society General Board Member NE day a friend of mine, referring to a certain teacher, said, "You know when she enters the classroom it is as though a candle had been lighted. She has such a rich educational background! She is well informed about her subject and loves to teach." It is a wonderful thing for a teacher to be able to inspire her listeners in this manner. If a teacher can make the members of her class feel that she has a fund _ of information back of what she is saying, she inspires confidence and adds to her success as a teacher. Now the question arises, "What 750 shall we read in the preparation of our lessons?" First, let us read the Relief Society Magazine. It is a guide for the busy reader, and a first dependable source of information in the preparation of our lessons. It is from lesson material published in the Magazine that lesson objectives are determined and the point of view, approved by the General Board, from which lessons should be taught, is obtained. Magazine material is always in harmeny with the Latter-day Saint point of view. It is a guide in the selection of supplementary reading material necessary to lesson enrichment. Because space in the Magazine is so limited, it is suggested that class leaders do as much outside reading as possible. Read at least two good books this winter which can be applied to our lessons. It is desirous that class leaders be imbued with the Latter-day Saint philosophy of life. Therefore, let us all read the scriptures. They provide information, inspiration, satisfaction and comfort. Other Church publications worthy of our time are The Improvement Era, Brigham Young's Discourses, Gospel Doctrine, by President Joseph F. Smith, Church History, biographies of our Church leaders, et cetera. The chapter, the "Marriage, 'Home, and the Family," found in' Gospel Doctrine, pages 341 to 399, is especially suitable for use in connection with our lessons. In this chapter, President Joseph F. Smith speaks of the necessity of marriage, the sacredness of marriage as it has been revealed to us in the latter days, and eternal marriage. Brigham Young's Discourses, chapters 17 and 18, contains excellent material on  

 family and deals with many problems of family life. President Clark's address, "Our Homes," given at the Relief Society general conference, October, 1940, and published in the © December, 1940, Relief Society Magazine, is worthy of consideration. We also recommend the address, "Training For Woman's Work," by Elder John A. Widtsoe, given at the Relief Society general conference, April, 1940, and published in The Relief Society Magazine, June, 1940, page 379. Back lessons on family relations will also be found profitable reading. Current magazines frequently provide excellent articles suitable for use in presenting social science lessons. I am especially partial to The Reader's Digest. Articles published in this magazine are taken from the best magazines on the market; being digests, they are quickly read. I have selected eleven articles from this magazine that are applicable to our lessons: 1. "Footnotes to a Happy Marriage," September, 1939, page 71. 2. "Parents Should be Seen and Not Heard," George Kent, September, 1939, page 81. 3. "Married Leve," Alexis Carrel, M. D., July, 1939, page 12. 4. "Don't Have an Abortion," Jane Ward, August, 1941, page 17. 5. "A Present for the Bride," Francis Newton, August, 1939, page 88. 6. "I Would Not Divorce Him Now," (Anonymous), September, 1941, page 18.. 7. "The Burden Marriage Bears," Harry Zorbaugh, December, 1939, page 41. 8. "Your Happiness is in Your Hands," Boris Blai, April, 1940, page 68. G. "The Philosophy for You in These Times," Bertrand Russell, October, 1941, page 5. 10. "Have You an Educated Heart?" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Gelett 1941, page 81. 11. "The Basic Axiom of Marital Felicity," Donald C. Peattie, October, 1941, page 111. The Ladies' Home Journal is now publishing a series of illustrated articles entitled "How America Lives." Each month this magazine presents the life of a supposedly successful family. 'These families have been selected from different parts of the United States. Up to date, twenty articles have been published, and all are very good. Other periodicals which will be found worthwhile are Good Housekeeping, Parents, Consumers' Guide, American Home, and Hygeia. A number of reference books are listed in the Magazine each month at the end of the lesson, but none has been adopted as a textbook because the content in its entirety cannot be recommended by the General Board. If you desire to buy one book, however, we recommend Good Burgess, October, 751 Housekeeping Marriage Book. 'This book is an outgrowth of a series of articles contributed by such wellknown authors as Eleanor Roosevelt, William L. Phelps, Ellsworth Huntington, of Yale University, and others. Arranged in book form, these articles give to prospective husbands and wives, as well as those already married, specific answers to many questions about marriage. The book is published by Prentice Hall, Inc., New York, and sells for $2, including tax. It is the right use of our spare moments in reading and study which qualify us for leadership. It is not lack of ability that holds people down, but lack of industry. For all who seek self-improvement there is a lion in the way, the lion of selfindulgence, and it is only by the conquest of this enemy that progress is assured. One or two hours' good reading every day will accomplish wonders.