Spaftord Relief Society General Board Member ODAY we face the home stretch inthe four-year intensive campaign of the Relief Society for 100,000 members by 1942, that is, by the end of 1941. But three months are ours—ours in which to win or lose; ours in which to assure the thrill of achievement or the sting of disappointment. The intensive. Effort of the past must be sustained, ingenuity and resourcefulness additionally taxed, and loyalty further tried if we are to succeed. In our last-minute determination to succeed many new devices will no doubt be used to win the "hard to win." Under the "home stretch" pressure extreme care will be necessary lest in our eagerness to achieve our goals we lower our standards or resort to practices or procedures that are not of the highest type. Contests launched—poetry, music, slogans, etc.—should reflect such high standards of excellence that they will challenge the interest of the most gifted as well as those who are less talented. Material selected for awards or special recognition should reflect credit upon the Society as well upon the individual submitting it. Showmanship, publicity, — etc., should be of a type that will appeal to mature women. Let us remember that while novel devices have value in catching initial interest and spreading news of the campaign, the actual enlistment of women is in reality the result of personal invitation, intelligent explanation of our program and objectives, and high standards of work within our Society. It is suggested that once again we read the instructions given by President Lyman at the Presidents' Breakfast last April and published in the Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 300, headed "Attendance Not a Pre-Requisite. For Enrollment." Let us be careful not to misinterpret or misapply this ruling. Particularly note the sentence, "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the Society." Two dominant factors enter into the application of this ruling: (1) the attitude of the women solicited for membership, and (2) the judgment of the one soliciting her. We all know that membership in Relief Society implies more than the purchase of a membership card. Questions are frequently asked as to whether the 60 percent membership quota may be applied to the known number of eligible women, rather than to the number of Latterday Saint families. As stated at the April conference (Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 315), itr is recognized that there are no women in a small proportion of the total families. Had the exact number of Latter-day Saint women been known to us, the quota would have been based on this number, rather than on the number of families. However, the percentage based on this smaller number would necessarily have been more than 60 percent 762 of the number of Latter-day Saint families—not 60 percent of a lesser number. Adjustments in the basic number may be justified in a few exceptional instances where conditions are extremely unusual. 'These adjustments should be cleared with the General Secretary. We repeat that the final status of each stake at the end of 1941 will be computed on the number of Latter-day Saint families in the stake at that time. Priesthood cooperation is an important factor in the success of all that we do as a Relief Society organization. We recommend that the wholehearted, active participation of the Priesthood be enlisted. 'This has been successfully accomplished in the Northern States Mission, where mission, regional and branch presidents are serving as co-chairman with their respective Relief Society presidents in the interest of increased membership in the Society. Cooperating with the Relief Society mission president, Ethie Muir, in initiating this campaign throughout the mission, President Leo J. Muir wrote: "We have felt it proper to 

 

 enlist the cooperation of branch presidencies in this campaign, since we regard this as a matter of great importance to the branches of this mission." Do not lose track of young women who because of the defense program are moving to new localities. Find out where they are going and notify Relief Society officers presiding over those districts of their presence in the community. Further suggestions which should be helpful to us in the successful culmination of our campaign, will — be made available to stakes and missions in bulletin form in the very near future. Even though a few of us may feel that our individual goal is beyond reach, we must not be discouraged and relax our efforts. Neither must we be complacent and satisfied if we have gone "over the top." The achievement of the general goal of our four-year intensive membershipbuilding program rests upon the sustained individual effort of every one of us during the next three months.