tive courses for 1941-42; in the literature department Lesson 3 was used. The purpose of these demonstrations was to suggest ways and means whereby the union meeting lesson department sessions might achieve their objectives. The objectives were defined as: (1) to inspire ward class leaders with the spirit and purpose of the Relief Society educational program; (2) to guide and direct them in the use of specific subject matter so as to achieve desired teaching objectives; (3) to provide opportunity for the growth and development of ward class leaders. Demonstrations in each department emphasized the fact that a realization of union meeting objectives is dependent upon the attitude and cooperation of ward class leaders as well as upon the preparation and teaching skill of the stake leader. 'The union meeting session was presented as an organized study period in which specific subject matter is carefully analyzed, stimulation and direction for further study given, and assistance provided in the effective use of lesson material in the wards. The demonstrations revealed that the union meeting lesson is not just a smooth unfoldment of ideas which move from a point of departure to a logical conclusion. They also showed that the lesson in hand influences to a marked degree the factors which need consideration and emphasis in the union meeting. The following factors are a composite of the suggestions for successful union meeting lesson work brought out in the various demonstrations: 1. The ultimate objective of the Relief Society educational program. 2. The importance of Magazine material as a groundwork for the lesson. 3. The clarification and evaluation of immediate lesson objectives. 4. Suitable approaches to the lesson. 5. The value of review and its appropriate use in connection with the lesson in hand. 6. The organization of subject matter so that the lesson will move forward logically toward the desired goal. 7. The wise apportionment of time with regard to the various phases or divisions of the lesson. 8. Clarification of difficult or misunderstood parts of the lesson. G. The discriminate use of supplementary reading matter, particularly with tegard to references listed at the end of the lesson; discriminate and profitable use of other lesson enrichment material, such as visual aids, personal experiences, cards containing Articles of Faith, et cetera. (Page references were given to available books suitable for use in connection with the lesson under consideration. Where books were not available, individuals in the class, who had been previously assigned the responsibility, reported in detail on the content. Where material was not too lengthy, quotations copied from these references were distributed. ) 10. Anticipation of problems which might be encountered in presenting the lesson, such as trends the lesson might take which would defeat the objectives set up, parts of the lesson on which there might be marked differences of opinion, et cetera. (Teachers were fortified to meet these problems. ) 11. The importance of teachings being in harmony with Latter-day Saint teachings and an evaluation of the lesson from this point of view. 12. The importance — of _ theological teachings being orthodox and backed by scripture. 13. Suitable methods of presenting in the wards the lesson under consideration. 14. The value of special assignments; sections of lesson lending themselves to assignments; recommendations on how to make successful assignments, such as: (a) capitalize on the interests and the abilities of the adults; (b) enough time should be spent with the member to whom the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE assignment is made to make sure that the assignment is clear—allow the assigned individuals to ask questions; (c) make assignment definite by writing it out and explaining it orally if necessary; (d) make the time limit very clear; (e) make sure that material for use in preparation of assignment is available, or make it available; (f) some follow-through by the class leader should be made before the actual day of presentation. 15. The value of the general assignment with recommendations on how and when to make this. 16. The use of carefully formulated questions in securing class participation. 739 The development of teaching leadership (one of the objectives of the union meeting) was considered in the following ways: (1) instruction; (2) challenging assignments made in advance of the union meeting discussion; (3) encouraging and providing opportunity for women to make unassigned contributions to the lesson; (4) providing opportunity for class participation through well-formulated questions. Sheology and SJestimony Department Why Study The Gospel? Vivian R. McConkie Relief Society General Board Member HE Gospel of Jesus Christ is a plan or system of laws and ordinances by strict obedience to which all people are enabled to return again into the presence of the Lord. It embraces all the laws and ordinances necessary for salvation; therefore, the Gospel is the plan of salvation. But obedience to it does more than reinstate us in the Spiritual presence, as we were before the fall. It takes us far beyond the glory that we there enjoyed. The great Jehovah contemplated the whole of events connected with the earth before the world was. He was acquainted with situations of all nations and with their destiny. He ordered all things righteous, according to his own righteousness, and he foresaw the conditions of all men both in life and in death, and their redemption. And all of the children of men will be given opportunity to accept or reject His plan which is incumbent upon all men. Jesus himself preached the Gospel in Galilee. He commanded that it be published in all nations for a witness that He is the Savior and the Redeemer of men. But it is necessary that we understand the Gospel if we are to publish it. Otherwise, we cannot know how to think or to act to gain salvation. We cannot be saved except we obey the law, and we cannot obey the law unless we know what it is, and we cannot know what it is unless we search the scriptures. It is necessary to study the law and to know that it should be obeyed. Before we can overcome all things, we must overcome ignorance and doubt, and must see the necessity of obeying all righteous laws. If we do not see the reason for any of the Lord's laws, we should, nevertheless 740 obey them. Blind obedience leads to the light. Mothers should teach righteousness to their children before children can possibly see the reason for it, and if they obey, the spirit will some day tell them why. The spirit comes to us and gives us understanding because of individual righteousness. That it is impossible to be saved in ignorance is accepted Church doctrine. But what many seem not to understand is that the reference is to a knowledge of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge and consequently more power than many men who are on earth. Hence it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 217) Evil spirits have retained knowledge of the past, but our memories of our pre-existence have been taken from us. Their whole purpose is to thwart the Savior's plan, which they well remember and know. They make it increasingly necessary that we acquaint ourselves with the revealed plan. For salvation is based on a knowledge of the things of God, which is the only knowledge that has saving power in it. President Joseph F. Smith said: "We may know all about the philosophy of the ages and the history of the nations of the earth; we may study the wisdom and knowledge of man and get all the information that we can acquire in a lifetime of research and study, but all of it put 

 

 together will never qualify anyone to become a minister of the Gospel unless he has the knowledge and spirit of the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." (Gospel Doctrine, page 324; see also Book of Mormon, II Nephi 9:27-29) Amulek says that when we are judged before the bar of God our reward will depend upon whether we have hardened our hearts against the word and upon that portion of the word which is found in us; in other words, upon how we have received the Gospel and increased our knowledge of God. (Book of Mormon, Alma 12:12-13) We are commanded to study the Gospel. "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1, verse 37) | The Lord has always commanded that we shall teach the Gospel with diligence one to another. If we do so, His promise is that His grace shall attend us, that we may be instructed more fully from day to day in the teachings and ordinances of the Church. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 309.) If we gain salvation, all the laws of God must be obeyed. All the ordinances are necessary. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 332.) As men grow in the knowledge of God they become more and more like him. As man approaches God, he is enlightened. The Prophet Joseph Smith. Said, "We consider that God has created man with a mind capable of instruction, and a faculty which may be enlarged in proportion to the heed RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and diligence given to the light communicated from heaven to the intellect; and that the nearer man approaches perfection the clearer are his views, and the greater his enjoyments, till he has overcome the evils of his life and lost every desire for sin; and like the ancients, arrives at that point of faith where he is wrapped in the power and glory of his Maker and is caught up to dwell with Him. But we consider that this is a station to which no man ever arrived in a moment: he must have been instructed in the government and laws of that kingdom by 741 degrees until his mind is capable in some measure of comprehending the propriety, justice, equality, and consistency of the same." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 1) Therefore, it becomes evident that if we desire salvation we must subject our wills to certain requirements that were prescribed before the foundations of the earth were laid, which we call the Gospel. That we might know what they are, the Lord has given us the scriptures and has made it a continuing law that we study them.