The Need Of Organization Counselor Marcia K. Howells AS our Relief Society century draws to its close, we marvel at what has been accomplished. There is power and strength in organization. We were organized by a prophet of God. A later prophet, President Joseph F. Smith, said of Relief Society: "I expect to see the day when 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church. It stands for the people of God, for nghteousness, for justice, for good and more good all the time." Our women, guided by the Priesthood, have tried to meet needs of all kinds. With an earnest desire and an adequate organization the work of the Society has progressed. Relief Society women have gathered and stored grain, made clothing for the Indians, made, laundered and mended clothing for temple workers, grown mulberry trees and helped with silk culture, and promoted home industry. It was about 65 years ago that President Brigham Young made a special call on the Relief Society to help establish home industries. Sister Eliza R. Snow eagerly supported the making of straw hats at home. These were to cost from 50c for men's hats suitable to wear in the field, to $1.75 for hats suitable for fine wear. A letter from a Relief Society in Cache Valley stated, "We are doing all in our power to sustain home manufacture. We have sent two ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding, millinery, et cetera, and we hope with our own exertions and the means we have on hand, to build a house for the Society and to establish a school for young ladies to learn to make hats, bonnets and many of the articles we are now importing." Reports and letters received from near and far show the value of organized effort along all lines. An interesting letter from Ephraim in 1875, speaking of donations, stated: "Three hundred dollars, having been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent ™m to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating from the old country.... The donations of the sisters are seldom in money, that being a very scarce commodity here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese, also remnants and scraps, either of cotton or woolen, which the sisters make up into quilts; some are sold, some loaned to the poor. Four were made for the brethren who went to St. George to work on the temple." Some of us will remember the prompt help given by the Relief Society women at the time of the San Francisco earthquake and fire. It was 35 years ago that the news came by wire to Salt Lake City from San Francisco one morning in April. President Bathsheba W. Smith, then 84 years of age, came down to the Relief Society office with all haste. A car was secured from the railroad company, and a carload of flour was soon ready—the first carload of flour to reach the sufferers. Just as these women met needs, so we are preparing to meet present needs and possible future emergencies. This has been shown by our response to the great welfare program of the Church. Reports fail to do justice to the devotion and unselfish efforts which our women have given to this splendid work. May we ever be ready and willing to assist the Priesthood. Relief Society keeps us on the pathway that leads us back to our Heavenly Father. A vast throng of women are now affiliated with the Society. We are still reaching out for other good women. There are many in the Church not yet with us. Satisfaction and happiness come from active membership. We have never needed the blessings of the Lord and his sustaining influence more than we do at the present time. Nothing else can sustain us as much as faith in God—the faith which can be measured by activity. If you have been benefited and blessed because you are a member of Relief Society, will you not help to extend these same benefits and blessings to others by enlisting them as members? Our program was designed for all: Latter-day Saint women. Organized as we are, nearly any accomplishment is possible. I eagerly await the centennial year—the proper. Observance of a century of service given by women of the Church. I trust it will be a rededication to the future of the love and loyalty of 100,000 Latterday Saint women.