An exception to the listed order is the summary of union meeting lesson demonstrations which appears on page 737, for the reason already explained. Space of the November issue of the Magazine is insufficient for the entire report of the proceedings. In addition to the addresses already mentioned as being withheld for publication in a later issue of the Magazine, the following presentations will also appear later: ""Highway for Americans," read by Ned Williams in the literature department; "Home Life, A Social Science," summary of talk by Dr. Harold T. Christensen in the social science department; and condensed Tabernacle address, "The Spirit Giveth Life," by Priscilla L. Evans. Officers Mjeeting Wednesday Forenoon Greetings General President Amy Brown Lyman IT is a great pleasure to me to extend to you dear sisters, in behalf of the General Board, hearty and affectionate greetings. We are very happy to meet with you after a sixmonths' interval. It is a great joy to look into your friendly faces, to feel the warmth of your hearts, and the strength of your goodness and uprightness. You are a constant inspiration to us. I wonder sometimes if we, as general, stake, and mission officers and board members, realize the heavy responsibility which we bear in directing the work of this great and mighty organization—an organization of nearly 100,000 members who are linked together in a world-wide chain which encircles the globe, and who look to us as exponents and liv- 'ing examples of all that the organization and the Church stand for. The very thought of this is almost overwhelming to me at times, and fills me with a feeling of humility 736 and dependence, and with the realization that we must seek the Lord earnestly and constantly for help and guidance; and, furthermore, that we must live so that we will merit the help we need and feel that we must have from Him if we are to succeed. It is no wonder that the President of the Church exhorts and expects all leaders such as we to pray for divine aid to serve the Lord and live righteous and exemplary lives, because so much depends upon us, and because the Church itself is judged by all its leaders. This day we shall devote to our educational work. I am sure we shall have a profitable time together. Our course of study for next year is already laid out for us. It appears to be interesting, stimulating, and helpful. What we shall need to do now is to study and make careful plans for presenting the work to our members, for adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done. Someone has said the prepared teacher is the inspired teacher. I would like to add that she is also the inspiring teacher. The Relief Society class leaders are among our most important workers. Upon their good work depends much of the success of the organization. 'Their contribution to our union meetings and our weekly meetings cannot be estimated. On every Tuesday during our educational year in Our 2,132 wards and branches there are 2,132 class teachers conducting lessons. Our total teaching force consists of 690 stake class leaders, and 10,660 ward class leaders, making a total of 11,350. During the coming season the work of our ward class leaders will be especially strenuous. They will be 

 

 confronted with larger classes than they have ever had before, and with the task of interesting new members who are unaccustomed to our work. Their teaching may be one of the determining factors in the attendance of our new members. They will need all the help and support stake leaders can give them. A few years ago Sister Emma Brown, who at that time was Professor of Primary Education at the Brigham Young University, brought to our attention some problems which she thought were pertinent in our Relief Society teaching. The following quotations are from her paper published in the Relief Society Magazine, November, 1934, page 660: Relief Society teaching seems to have a triple purpose—information, inspiration and participation. Ruskin says: '"Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It means teaching them to behave as they do not behave." It means educating for and training in, not merely telling about. In order to make clear to you my meaning, I shall venture to suggest a number of persistent problems which I suspect may be pertinent in your teaching:. 1. How may I, a teacher, help in getting women of the community to attend and join the organization? 2. What may I do to make Relief Society more attractive, interesting, and worthwhile to these women than any other Tuesday afternoon activity? 3. What may I do to the environment which will stimulate and encourage regular attendance? 4. How may I plan and organize the subject matter and materials of instruction so as to gain and hold the interest and attention of the group? 5. How shall I guide the class activities and so stimulate interest and attention? 6. What may I do to secure individual and group participation in class activities? 7. How may I discover the interests, pos- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sibilities and purposes of the individual and the group? 8. How may I make the activities sufficiently comprehensive to give each learner a chance to make his contributions to the group? G. How may I vary activities and so add to the interest?. 10. How may I socialize the group so as to interest everyone in the common good? 11. How may I encourage, stimulate and build confidence in the diffident and retiring member? 12. How may I check, without giving offense, the talker who takes up too much time? 13. How may I create a friendly attitude of give and take? 14. How may I utilize constructively the talent of the group? 15. How may I radiate a friendly happy spirit of cooperation and helpfulness? 16. How may I leave the learners eager for further understanding? 17. How may I best develop desirable attitudes, ideals and appreciation? When we have settled upon the goals _ or objectives we are then brought face to 737 face with these troublesome issues: What to teach. How to organize this for teaching. Miss Brown then discusses how to proceed to teach. She says the following are some of the things that the teacher must think about: 1. What do I want to accomplish? 2. What are the fundamental ideas I am trying to fix regarding the subject matter? 3. How will I give them? | 4. How may I arouse interest? 5. What. Materials will I need to carry forward these experiences in order to achieve the goals? Teaching is said to be the noblest of the professions, and teachers are considered to be greatly blessed in their field and the opportunity it gives them. But there is the realization that with this opportunity there comes a great responsibility—the responsibility of influencing human behavior and molding human lives. That the Lord may bless you in your work is my earnest prayer. Union Meeting Lesson Demonstrations UNION meeting lesson demonstrations were held in each of the department sessions as follows: Theology, conducted by Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, assisted by Marianne C. Sharp, Ensign Stake; Zittelle M. Snarr, Mabel H. Burgoyne, Zina H. Ashton, Salt Lake Stake. Visiting Teachers' Message, conducted by Stella P. Rich, assistant professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Jennie B. Knight, Inez B. Allred, Catherine Anderson, Edna B. Culmsee, Provo Stake; Edith Y. Booth, Delilah B. Adams, Utah Stake. Literature, conducted by Elsie C. Carroll, professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Anna P. Redd, Iva Jensen, Provo Stake; Annie A. Tanner, Maurine Taylor, Utah Stake. Social Science, conducted by Belle S. Spafford, General Board member, assisted by Veda Davies, DeEtte Stewart, Eva Heiner, Christe Smith, Mabel Jones Gabbott, Thelma Gunn, Wells Stake; and LaRene Lindquist, South Salt Lake Stake. In the departments on theology, visiting teachers' message, and social science, the demonstrations were based on Lesson 2 of these respec- 738.