Officers ITleeting Thursday Forenoon President's Report and Official Instructions President Amy Brown Lyman THE following report of organizations and reorganizations was given, with grateful appreciation for the splendid service of the retiring officers, and a warm welcome to those newly appointed. ORGANIZATION Stake South Salt Lake Formerly Part of Grant and Wells Stakes Winnie O. Lavin Appointed President Date September 2, 1941 752 REORGANIZATIONS Stake or Mission Released Appointed President Stakes Burley Dora Pickett Agnes Hoggan Grant Martha W. Brown Cassandra D. Bailey Highland Allie R. Barnes Zora C. Paulson Lyman Katherine Blackner Sarah J. Slagowski Nampa LaVera Aston Clara Mason Nevada Nellie C. Brunson Erma Erickson Reno Ethelyn D. States Bertha Jane Purdy Roosevelt Kate Killian Elsie M. Taylor San Bernardino South Sevier Josie B. Bay Jetta Marquardson Twin Falls Afton W. Hunt Washington Louise C. Bennion Missions Tahitian Edna L. Cannon Texas Luella R. Christiansen Western States Ada P. Seegmiller Evelyn Wilde Heath Jennie Brown M. Lennie Ward Elizabeth G. Hales Venus R. Rossiter Martha T. Warner Luceal R. Curtis CENTENNIAL PLANS Desiring to be helpful, we should like to review briefly some of the proposed plans and projects to be carried out in connection with our coming centennial, most of which have already been presented to you. Recommendations for Local Observance of Centennial We call to your attention again the following two definite recommendations to be followed by local Relief Societies throughout the Church: 1. That celebrations be held in all stakes (either in stake or ward capacity) on March 17, 1942, with the exception of those stakes comprising the Salt Lake Region which, due to their location, will hold their celebration in' connection with the general Church-wide celebration at the time of the April conference; 2. That centennial trees be planted on stake and ward chapel grounds. 

 

 Date August 24, 1941 August 17, 1941 - September 12, 1941 May 4, 1941 March g, 1941 September 14, 1941 September 21, 1941 May 11, 1941 June 1, 1941 - September 21, 1941 September 28, 1941 June 22, 1941 September 21, 1941 June 21, 1941 May 15, 1941 August 1, 1941 July 15, 1941 Other Features—Participation Optional 1.. Centennial Poem Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 397). 2. Centennial Short Story Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 398). 3. Centennial Seals The official centennial insignia, reproduced in blue and gold as a gummed seal, 11/8 inches in diameter, is now available to all Relief Societies desiring to purchase quantities for attaching to programs, booklets, stationery, place cards, or for. Similar uses during this important year. These seals are available only in lots of 100 at the rate of 10c per hundred, postpaid. 4. Centennial Songs Two centennial songs, punched to fit the Relief Society Song Book (the first additions to the loose-leaf Song Book since its publication early in 1940) will be off the press during November— Emigration North Idaho Falls Mary R. Hatch Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie H. Brockbank Ethel Miles RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A Song of Triumph, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy, postpaid; In His Form, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid. Inasmuch as the combined price of the two songs is 15c, the Song Book, which formerly sold at 85c per copy, postpaid, will hereafter be priced at $1 per copy, postpaid, with the two new songs included. 5. Centennial Concert Stakes and missions are invited to take part in the Singing Mothers' Centennial Concert to be held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle at the time of the general celebration, by selecting for participation in the great chorus of 1,500 voices a delegation of not more than nine good singers—a balanced group of first sopranos, second sopranos, and altos. Although it will be possible for comparatively few singers from each stake and mission to take part in the Tabernacle concert, it is recommended that Singing Mothers throughout the Church be featured extensively in local celebrations in the wards, stakes, and missions. Personal Centennial Souvenirs— Purchase Optional Thinking that every Relief Society woman would probably want at least one souvenir of the centennial, the General Board has arranged for production of a number of commemotative articles from which selection may be made. The purchase of these articles is entirely optional. They are all obtainable from the office of the General Board, and the prices quoted include mailing charges. These centennial souvenirs are: 1. The official Relief Society pin, samples of which have been sent to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents and which are being displayed at your stake Relief Society conferences. 'These are priced $1.80 for 753 the 10-carat solid gold front (that is, gold filled) with 24-carat goldplated back, and $1.10 for the 24- carat gold-plated pin, including federal excise tax and mailing charges. (See Relief Society Magazine, September, 1941, page 612; October, 1941, page 689.). A special centennial commemorative book of 96 pages, size g x 12 inches, to be titled A Centenary of Relief Society, to be bound in durable cover-paper. This book will contain a history of the organization portrayed in both pictures and words—price 50c, postpaid. It is recommended that the regular stake and ward Relief Society Magazine representatives solicit advance orders for this book. This book will include an account of the general centennial celebration in April, and will be off the press about May 1, 1942. 3. A book, Our Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, by Latter-day Saint women, price $1.50, postpaid, which will be available about December 15, 1941. 4. A centennial plate, 101/2 inches in diameter, upon which will be found a reproduction of an old etching of the organization meeting of the Society, showing Joseph Smith, John Taylor, e and Willard Richards, and the 18 charter members. This plate, handcolored in soft, harmonious colors, will be ready for sale about December 15, 1941. The cost will be $1.50, postpaid. N Relief Society Centennial Memorial One of the most important features of our celebration will be the placing and dedication of a memorial which is to be presented to the Church by the Relief Society and placed upon Temple Square. This memorial will consist of a beautiful tower within which will be placed the famous Nauvoo bell. 'This bell once hung in the Nauvoo Temple and was brought across the plains in 754 the fall of 1847. (For further information see "Our Permanent Centennial Memorial," by Mary Grant Judd, page 769) If any of you would like to see this famous bell you may do so by going into the Bureau of Information where it is now on display in the main corridor. The erection of this tower will cost a considerable sum, and all members of the organization will be given an opportunity to make contributions. From ioc to 25c has been suggested as a schedule for contributions, which is within the reach of many of us. Some may desire to give less, and others more. Let it be understood that making donations to this project, however, is an entirely voluntary and personal matter A special sheet for the names of donors and amounts donated will be provided in the new ward record book kept by the secretary, who will handle the fund; these sheets will OTHER Membership Campaign The General Board is greatly pleased over the progress being made in the membership campaign. The efforts you have put forth during the last three and one-half years have borne good fruit. After our goal of 100,000 has been reached, we shall have a new campaign before us—that of holding and interesting the new members we have enrolled. Officers and class leaders will feel it their duty to be hospitable and to inspire and interest these new members as well as the old faithful ones, and to insure their regular continued attendance. We shall be challenged both individually and collectively in this matter. 

 

 be retained in the ward as a permanent record. Cooperation of M. I. A. In recognition and support of the Relief Society centennial, the General Boards of the Mutual Improvement Association have released to the Relief Society Tuesday evening, March 17, 1942, for local centennial programs. Those who desire to hold celebrations in the evening rather - than the afternoon may therefore feel free to make arrangements with their respective bishops and local M. I. A. Officers for the use of this evening. These Boards have also released the time of the Sunday evening M. I. A. Meeting throughout the Church on November 2, 1941, for a conjoint service of Relief Society and M. I. A. In the interest of Relief Society membership. 'The General Board is very grateful to the Mutual Improvement Associations for these generous concessions.; MATTERS Change in Collection Time of Annual Membership Dues After careful consideration, the General Board has changed the time of collection of annual membership dues from the month of January to the month of October, effective during 1941. Hereafter, the annual dues will not cover the calendar year, but a membership year extending from October 1 to September 30 of the following year. This change was announced to all officers by means of official bulletin No. 17, July 22, 1941, and also in the Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 688. In making the change this year from a calendar to a membership year, members who paid dues in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE January, 1941, will be expected to pay dues on the new basis in October, 1941. However, no collection will be made next January, and the dues paid in October this year will cover the period up to September 30, 1942. Because regular weekly meetings of Relief Society are not held during the four-month period, June through September, any new members enrolled between April 1 and October 1, 1941, who paid initial membership dues during this period, are to be considered as having paid dues for the new 1941-42 membership year, and are to be issued a 1941-42 membership card without further payment of dues this year. All new members enrolling after October 1, 1941, will be expected to pay annual membership dues upon enrollment for the ensuing membership year ending September 30, 1942. New membership cards have been issued by the General Board covering the membership year October 1, 1941, to September 30, 1942. Inasmuch as this period includes the looth anniversary of Relief Society, the new membership card is printed in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and bears the official centennial insignia. Sewing Survey A survey has recently been made under the direction of the Church clothing committee, on which the General Board is represented, to determine the best method of carrying on a sewing program under the Church welfare plan. All Relief Society stake presidents filled in questionnaires in connection with this survey, and a number of regions 5 were visited and valuable information collected aad tabulated. From this survey recommendations will be forthcoming. We desire to thank our Relief Society presidents for their response to the questionnaires, and the workers in the various localities visited for their courtesy and cooperation. Magazine Subscriptions Magazine subscriptions should be - solicited at or near expiration time. They may begin any month. Some of our stakes have the mistaken idea that the General Board desires all Magazine subscriptions to begin in the month of January. This is not the case. In fact, it would be impossible for us to handle the situation in our mailing department if all subscriptions began in the same month. The only change which was made with respect to Magazine regulations at the April conference this year was that the intensive one-month Magazine promotion campaign might be conducted in whatever month is chosen by the stake, and that hereafter the annual subscription report would cover the calendar year. The annual subscription report is of all subscriptions taken during the year, irrespective of the month with which the subscriptions begin or end. The General Board has continually emphasized that' the Magazine subscription work be distributed throughout the year insofar as possible. In order to assist the representatives in so distributing their work, the General Board began a _new service in June of this year, and sends monthly to all stakes and missions notification slips relating to the expiring subscriptions each month. Mormon Handicraft Shop Your efforts have helped greatly in the twofold purpose of the Mormon Handicraft Shop—to afford our people a market for their handwork, and to foster and perpetuate the crafts which are the heritage of our people. Buyers are interested in things that are made by our Mormon people, especially those articles which are clever and have local or historical significance. No article should be offered under the label of Mormon Handicraft which is not well done and on good material with a harmonious use of color. We wish you would stress these points to your workers who are sending or are planning to send articles to the Shop. We would like as many lovely articles as possible to be available for sale in the Shop during our centennial year. We deeply appreciate your fine loyalty and cooperation in taking membership in the Shop. Last year several stakes had 100 percent of their wards with memberships. We urge you to encourage and teach the different crafts to the young women of the Church. One stake, for example, has a project of teaching its women, especially the young women, the arts of netting and rug weaving. Temple and Burial'Clothing We would like to make a few helpful suggestions for ordering clothing from our Temple and Burial Clothing Department, managed by the Relief Society General Board: 1. Give purpose—whether for temple or burial use. 2. For burial, send order promptly in order to insure delivery by the time desired. 3. State clearly whether for man, woman, or child. 4. Give age, exact measurements, and approximate price for complete order. 5. Postage and express charges are pre- ' paid by the Board. Upon receipt of a telephoned or telegraphed order, we can readily send burial clothing to any place in the United States where there is airmail or air express service, the latter being much less expensive and equally available. Blue Bulletins We trust that you are carefully preserving your blue bulletins and other information which we are sending out from time to time. Stake presidents are advised to see that their counselors and all other members of stake boards read these bulletins as well as other instructions. 'They should also see that whatever applies to wards is sent to them promptly. Reports are made to us that stake board members often do not have the opportunity of reading these instructions. If you do not have time to read them through in meeting, pass them around, (See Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 296, under Blue Bulletins.) Articles of Faith (Card Copies) We regret the delay in the delivery of the card copies of the Articles of Faith, which are to be left in each Latter-day Saint home this year by the visiting teachers. We had expected that they would be ready for distribution on the October visit of the teachers, but through delays in delivery of paper the printers were unable to fill our order on time. We 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE hope now that the cards will be ready and in your hands by the first ot December. You will be kept posted regarding this matter. The cards will be 7x11 inches in size and where desirable may be hung up in the homes, either framed or unframed. 'They will be furnished free of charge by the General Board. What a fine thing it would be if in every home these precious Articles of Faith could be memorized by every member of the family! Welfare Memorandum Sheets We are pleased to announce that beginning with the month of January, 1942, ward presidents will be provided with family record or memorandum sheets (buff in color) upon which to keep a record of families under care. These sheets will be a helpful tool for ward presidents, providing a place to record information which is important for them to have in order to make intelligent recommendations to the bishops regarding the needs of these families. Accompanying the record sheets will be a weekly food distribution guide (blue in color) prepared in connection with the Church Welfare Committee. With these there will be full instructions regarding their use. These sheets are perforated and are to be placed in a loose-leaf binder, held by the ward president or her social service aid. The sheets will be provided by the General Board, but the wards will be expected to pay for the binder, which can be had at the Relief Society office for 6oc, including a helpful set of five divider sheets with index tabs, or 40¢ for the binder without the index. A discussion of this matter is being taken up in your stake conferences 757 this fall in the meeting with bishops and ward presidents. You will therefore have full opportunity to learn of all details connected with it before the records are put into use January 1, 1942. Social Science Department There has been no provision for a social science lesson in December, due to the holiday season. The General Board does not require that a meeting be held on the fourth 'Tuesday, December 23. Any ward desiring to meet on that date will furnish its Own program. Literature Department It is suggested that the literature lesson which would regularly come on the third Tuesday, March 17, 1942, our 100th anniversary, be given on March 31, the fifth Tuesday of the month. Work-and-Business Meeting The use of the topic provided for work-and-business meeting is optional. It has been suggested that the time for formal presentation of the topic not exceed fifteen minutes, during which time sewing be suspended, and that presentation be followed by formal discussion, and demonstration where desirable, simultaneously with the sewing or other handwork. (Wards desiring to hold an all-day work-and-business meeting, with one session devoted to sewing or other handwork, and one session for consideration of the home topic would, of course, give more time to formal presentation of the topic.) Union Meetings We call attention again to the fact that union meeting is a lead- ership meeting, the most' important features of which should be study, preparation, business and discussion of problems. Long preliminary programs and other merely entertaining features are not desirable and should not encroach upon the time for departmental work. Relief Society union meetings are not required (but may be held if desired) during May, June, July, and August, but should be held in September and on through the educational year. Special officers and visiting teachers' class leaders need not be required to attend union meeting monthly, but they should be called to union meeting as often as seems necessary in order to assist them in effectively carrying forward their respective assignments. Ward Conferences The. General Board recommends for your consideration that a preliminary meeting be held in connection with ward conferences, to be attended by the stake board representative assigned to the conference, the ward executive officers, and the ward bishop or his representative; that the length of such meeting be decided locally, and that the holding of such meeting be optional rather than required. It is pointed out that such a meeting would provide an opportunity for a representative of the stake board to discuss ward problems with the ward officers as a group—an opportunity which is not provided in the union meeting. In some stakes where these meetings are now held, the official visitor from the stake carries with her a questionnaire which she fills out during the preliminary meeting and carries back to the board. This procedure makes it possible for the stake board to better understand conditions in the ward. It is recommended that ward conferences this year feature membership. Helps in this respect have been sent out in official blue bulletin No. 17. Visits To Wards Stake board members in visiting wards on regular meeting days do so primarily with the view of learning how the work is being carried on and how the stake board can be the most helpful. The question has been raised as to whether stake board members are always expected to speak when visiting a ward in their official capacity. The recommendation of the General Board is that representatives of the stake board at ward Relief Society meetings should deliver any special message assigned to them by the stake board as clearly and briefly as possible, so as not to prolong the meeting unduly or usurp the. Time allotted for the lesson, but that stake boards are to assign topics for presentation in ward meetings only as occasion requires, not as a matter of routine. The question has also been raised as to what questions are to be answered by stake board members when visiting ward Relief Society meetings, aud what questions should be reterred back to the stake board for decision. The General Board suggests that stake board members may properly answer those questions arising during an official visit to a ward concerning which policies are well established and substantiated by rulings or recommendations in writing in the Relief Society Handbook, in official instructions issued at gen- 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eral Relief Society conferences, in official bulletins from the General Board to the stake, or in stake adaptations of General Board policies and recommendations or stake rulings on local Relief Society projects which appear in the minutes of the stake board meeting; but that questions not covered by written instructions or recommendations, or any exceptions or modifications of such regulations, be referred back to the stake board for clarification and decision, so that uniform policies may be developed with respect to similar problems in all wards, and so that, if necessary, the points in question may be referred to the General Board for consideration. Answers to Letters and Telegrams It is requested that letters and telegrams sent out from the Relief Society headquarters to stake presidents asking for immediate reply be answered promptly. For example, in planning our stake conferences and the dates upon which they may be held, it is very necessary that questions sent out regarding these matters be answered at once. Sometimes a second letter has been necessary and even a telegram in order to get the desired information. Stake presidents will please take note of this. Magazine Binders We have recently received at headquarters the binders for the Relief Society Magazine which were ordered many weeks ago, a sample of which was shown at April conference. Each binder will hold a total of twelve issues of the Magazine, single copies of which may be inserted or removed as desired. This binder is a great convenience to 759 officers, class leaders, and Magazine representatives who desire to keep the current issues of the Magazine together for ready reference. The price of the binder is 75¢ postpaid. Church Seminaries We would like to call to your attention the important and effective work being done by our Church seminaries, and ask for your interest and support. They have been established by the Church and are conducted at great expense for the benefit of our children—to teach them the, Gospel and to develop within them faith and spirituality. What could be more important to our children than such training! Relief Society mothers can aid the seminary movement best by urging their children to attend, and after they are enrolled, by taking an interest in what they are studying. Seminary teachers are grateful for the cooperation of parents. Church Medical Care and Hospitalization The Presiding Bishopric desires it to be understood that members of the Church who are recommended to Latter-day Saint hospitals by bishops for free medical care are assigned to the doctor who is on the particular service which they require. Doctors in the hospitals rotate on the various services which cover certain periods of time. If a patient desires to be cared for by his personal physician, his case becomes a private one, which precludes Church hospitalization. (See "Progress of the Church," February, 1941, p. 59.) Liquor and Tobacco Relief Society is supporting vigor- 760 ously the campaign for the non-use of liquor and tobacco. Total abstinence is our motto. Beautification Campaign We appreciate very much the activity of our members in the campaign to beautify our homes and communities. The lovely flower gardens, well-kept lawns, improved public grounds and parks, together with the renovated homes and public buildings, are silent witnesses of the efforts put forth by both men and women in Latter-day Saint communities. Our Relief Society centennial trees, to be planted on Church grounds everywhere, will be a contribution to the Church beautification program. Sacrament Meeting We call the attention of Relief Society women to the fact that the most sacred service of religious worship is that of the sacrament. The members of the Church are expected to present themselves before the sacrament board and renew their covenants with their Maker. In the "Progress of the Church" for April the importance of Sacrament meeting is stressed. It is stated that this is the one meeting set forth in revelation for ward members to attend. It has been specified as the official meeting of the members of the ward. Tithing It is recommended by the General Authorities that children of eight years should be taught to pay tithing on their earnings. This habit 

 

 should be established early in order that children may enjoy all the blessings connected with it. Mothers can do much to see that these. Instructions are carried out. Fast Day Fast day observance is particularly called to the attention of the mothers, who, because of their direction of home affairs, have it largely within their power to see that this day is properly observed. It is still requested that two meals be omitted on Fast Day and that the amount equal to the cost of these be sent to the bishop to be used for the care of the needy. Literature for Soldiers The General Authorities of the Church have recommended that those who have sons in army training camps see to it thatthese boys are supplied with Church works. Arrangements have been made by the Church whereby the books can be purchased reasonably. Ward bishops have full information regarding this matter and should be consulted by those who are interested. We suggest that the mothers support this splendid movement. We suggest also that mothers help to keep their sons informed regarding the location of mission headquarters and Church branches nearest the training fields where our boys are located, and that they write to their sons frequently or see to it that other members of the family do so. Our boys need all the help and protection we can possibly give them.  The Heme Stretch In rilerabieahip Belle S.