LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson II. THE CuiLp's INSTINCTS AND IMPULSES Based on Chapter 2 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs In Lesson 1 we discussed the ways in which science is bridging the gap between what we know about child training and what we actually put into practice. The reader will recall that we 
 considered three main points (1) axferiments in applying the principles of individual development to school promotion; (2) scientific work in laboratory schools and (3) physical development and school progress. The main point in the last lesson to keep in mind is that since far-reaching changes in education are now taking place, we must make sure that we—parents and teachers alike—keep pace with this advance. In this lesson (Lesson 2) we are going to consider certain important behavior-tendencies in childhood; instincts and impulses which call for careful handling, if wholesome personalities are to be the result. (The author of chapters 2 and 3 in The Child: His Nature and His Needs is Dr. Mary T. Whitley, assistant professor of education at Columbia University, an authority on the subject.) A. How INSTINCTS AND IMPULSES ARE CONTROLLED (Pages 31-35) One big difference between man and the animals is the length of the period of dependency. The young animal is comparatively well developed at birth and soon matures, but the young child is very fragile when born and matures slowly. About onefourth of the average human being's life is a period of physical and mental immaturity. This means that the infant is not an adult in miniature, but rather a bundle of impulses and instincts,—the raw materials out of which complicated behavior patterns and the adult personality are later built. The chief point to remember with regard to instincts and impulses is that they cannot be suppressed; they can, however, be directed and socialized. The wise guidance of the child's original tendencies is the chief task of the parent and teacher. The principles by which these instincts and impulses can be wisely directed, are summarized in chapter 2 of the text. Questions 1. What are the rules for effectively strengthening the right impulses in childhood? Give several examples illustrating these principles. 2. What is meant by substitution and sublimation as ways of re-directing original tendencies? Give several examples of each. B. ANGER AND Its CoNTROL (Pages 35-37) Anger is one of the instinctive emotions. It has played a tremendous part in human survival and the evolution of man. Just how necessary it is to life under civilized conditions is a matter of conjecture. The fact remains, however, that anger is % one of the behavior patterns and tendencies with which all persons are equipped at birth. The tendency to anger cannot he eliminated. It must be wisely directed. Crying is a common form of anger reaction. The child relies upon it to secure many needed satisfactions. The fact that as children grow older they cry less is proof of the statement attributed to one psychologist, that crying is an "expression of baffled helplessness." Many older children, even many adults, still cry when angry or when facing a crisis. This constitutes - something of a handicap and implies that the person's emancipation from childhood has not been effective or complete. Questions 1. What general principle underlies the effective control of anger? What are some of the practical aids in this control? 2. Can you cite examples of children known to you who become angry upon the slightest provocation? What effect does this have upon a child's personality? On the other hand, do you know children who never get angry? Is this danger equally serious? Why? C. Tue SExuAL LIFE oF THE CHILD (Pages 37-42) A faulty sex adjustment is responsible for more warped and twisted personalities than possibly any other single cause. And one of the main reasons for this condition is the wholly inadequate - sex guidance which most children get in their formative years. Infancy and childhood are the golden periods for the effective guidance of the sex impulses, and the responsibility for it rests squarely upon the parent. The normal child becomes sexconscious at about the age of two years, and all of his future sex attitudes hinge upon the form of control employed at this critical period. Two extremes are to be avoided in the sex education of children: the danger of silence and taboo, on the one hand and the too frequent and morbid discussion of the subject, on the other. A middle-of-the-road position and an attitude of frankness are the best policies to pursue. (This topic will be discussed again in chapter 15, along with the problems of adolescence. It is suggested, also, that the clumsy terms, detumescence and contrectation, which appear on pages 37 to 39, be disregarded as unimportant and confusing. ) Questions 1. What is meant by the author's statement that bedroom and bathroom manners need as much attention as do table and parlor manners? 2. Looking back on your own sex life, what do you think 
 are (a) the essential things to teach children about sex, and (b) the best times to bring these matters to their attention? 3. How may the sex impulses of children be sublimated? Cite examples, from your own observations, of children whose sex energies are (or are not) successfully socialized. R D. FEAR AND Its GUIDANCE (Pages 42-45) Someone has called fear and worry, the "twin demons," because of their disorganizing effect upon personality. One of the commonest * conditions which modern psychiatry is called upon to cope with is fear in its various forms. The significant thing is that most of the fears and horrors of the neurotic adult can usually be traced to the experiences of early childhood. Most fears are learned. Only two of them, as Watson points out, are original,—fear -of a sudden, loud noise, and fear of falling. That is to say, most fears are contagious: children become afraid of the dark, of thunder and lightning, etc., largely because they observe these fear reactions in the elders. Bertrand. Russell puts the matter thus: "Rational apprehension of dangers is necessary; fear is not. A child cannot apprehend dangers without some element of fear, but this element is very much diminished when it is not present in the instructor, A grown-up person in charge of a child should never feelfear. That is one reason why courage should be cultivated in women just as much as ) " in men.; This same writer,—in his stimulating book, Education and the Good Life, (Boni & Liveright, New York, 1927), makes the suggestion that: "Whatever either terrifies or interests the child should be explained if it is at all possible; this transforms fear into scientific interest hy a process which is ventifely along the lines of instinct and repeats the history of the race.' ] Questions 1. What is the value of fear? Since fear, like the other instinctive emotions cannot be suppressed, what are the effective ways cf coping with it? 2. Of what objects or situations, if any, should children be afraid? 3. Take pencil and paper and make a list of the fears which you have. Observed in children and adults of your acquaintance. Consider now each one of these fears separately in the light of the question: What kind of parental guidance might have prevented these fears from: developing? The Main Point in Lesson 2: Human instincts and impulses, such as anger, love, fear, collecting, etc., cannot be suppressed: they must be allowed expression. Their expression must be guided, however, and not left to chance. The proper guidance of these tendencies in children is the chief responsibility of parents. @ \ - ictency--