
October, Vol. 57, Number 10

OCTOBER COMFORTS ME WARM
October whirls
within my breast
like scarlet leaves in roiling wind . . .
October stirs my throbbing pulse
now that summer's maize is storage-binned,
garnered from rows of April green,
now harvest-thinned . . .
\? Kernels bulging with promised strength
against a frost-filled hunger-need,
holding the secret of new life
within each sleeping seed . . .
Now against the darkness,
foreboding sky,
and impending winter-harm
crimson October swirls in my heart
with fire-gold to comfort me warm.
—Kathryn Kay
The Cover:
Frontispiece:
Art Layout:
Illustrations:
Mount Hood, Oregon, Wearing a Cap of Snow
Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts
Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press
Autumn Morning
Photograph by Harry Harpster, Jr.
Dick Scopes
Mary Scopes

Very Dear Sisters Everywhere: May I tell you, please, of my deep gratitude for the
honor and privilege of illustrating your beautiful stories these past years? I shall treasure
always the happiness and inspiration you have given me so generously. Thank
you, thank you, for your many kindnesses. What fine, wonderful people you are! I'll
think of you often— and miss you all! Mary Scopes, Salt Lake City, Utah
We of the Tempe Stake wish to express our thanks and appreciation to all of you for
the Relief Society Magazine. We love and sustain our Prophet Joseph Fielding Smith
and know the adult magazine will bring great blessings as the Relief Society Magazine
has in the past. Barbara Ellingson, Tempe Stake Relief Society President,
Tempe, Arizona
Church Magazine Conversion Rules
The following are rules the Church Magazine Office is using to apply The Era,
Instructor, and Relief Society credits toward the Adult Magazine.
The subscriber's name and address as it appears on The Era file will be used
for the Adult Magazine. The Era file is being used as the base for the Adult file.
The months remaining on an Instructor subscription and a Relief Society Magazine
subscription will be added to The Era subscription.
The number of Adult Magazines a subscriber receives will be determined by
the number of Eras being received. If a person is not receiving an Era, the number
of Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Instructors
being received. If a person is not receiving The Era or Instructor, the number of
Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Relief Society
Magazines being received. In the case of institutional subscribers such as seminaries,
institutes, and ward libraries, the number of Adult Magazines they will receive
will be determined by the largest number they are receiving of either The Era or
The Instructor.
Samples of typical situations encountered in the combining of Era and Relief
Society subscriptions are printed on the following pages. The rule being followed
in each case is stipulated. While it is realized on occasion these may not be the
actions subscribers desire, rules have to be adopted that would seem to apply in most
cases. Where a particular example fits your situation and the action taken isn't what
is desired, write and tell the Church Magazine Office at 79 South State Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah 84111, and they will attempt to follow your wishes.
1. If the complete name and address are exactly the same on the Relief Society Magazine
and Era list, the remaining months of the Relief Society Magazine beyond
December will be added to The Era.
SAMPLE
Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List
84302HUME-216E017 0CT71
OLIVE A HUME
216 E 3RD S
BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302
722
MRS. OLIVE A HUME
216 E 3RD S
BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JAN72
BRIG C-B C 17

Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
Business Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
722 Church Magazine Conversion Rules
724 Be a Professional Homemaker, My Daughter Lillian Y. Bradshaw
732 Relief Society Song Contest
Fiction
734 Elberta Goes Visiting Hazel K. Todd
746 Snow Cream Lena Mae Hansen
759 The Secret of Blueberry Hill— Chapter 4 Rosa Lee Lloyd
General Features
722 From Near and Far
740 Notice to Magazine Subscribers
741 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
742 Editorial— In Appreciation Louise W. Madsen
773 Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities
800 Birthday Congratulations
The Home— Inside and Out
750 Cooking With Peanut Butter Julia Read Clark
752 Small Quilts That Qualify Edythe K. Watson
754 A Walk in the Woods Lillian L. Woolley
755 Hobby Features— Lettie Stoker and Gladys K. Richins
756 Meatless Casseroles— Part II Edythe K. Watson
758 Call It Not Common Verda F. Welch
758 A Lesson Learned Cora H. Arnold
Lesson Department
781 Spiritual Living— The Creation
787 Visiting Teacher Message— Appreciation of Excellence
789 Homemaking— Exercise, Posture, and Grooming
790 Social Relations— Women Are People Too
795 Cultural Refinement— Sisterhood in a Worldwide Church
Poetry
721 October Comforts Me Warm, Kathryn Kay; 730 The Maturity of Seed, Margaret B. Shomaker;
730 Why Poetry?, Margaret B. Jorgensen; 731 Respite, Norma Bowkett; 739 Happy Ever After,
Zara Sabin; 748 Housecleaning Time, Wanda Blaisdell; 749 Meeting of Seasons, Annie C. Esplin;
753 Small Bell, Christie Lund Coles; 754 Heart's Haven, Nona H. Brown; 757 October 21st,
Marilyn M. Oswald; 757 Late Word, Dorothy J. Roberts; 758 Hope, Grace E. Cutler; 788 Life Song
for Stephen, Beulah Huish Sadleir.
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970
by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111;
Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 250 a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No
back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter
February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned
unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts ill be retained for six months only. THe Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.


723 7 Be a PROFESSIONAL: Homemaker, Taking you back to school the other night, sweet daughter nearly twenty, we talked of school and working and future plans of marriage. You said, "But, Mom, I lke to work. I like the excitement of it." I heard the echo of my own voice just that many years ago as I said to your father, "But honey, I want the challenge working outside the house would give me. I would feel like I'm doing something. I want to be someone, not just lost in diapers and dishes and scrubbing floors." And then I had bitterly added, "Anyone can do that!" I felt again a warm breeze blow a wisp of hair across my face as your father left for work that morning. Diaper and another diaper and another diaper blew in the Hawaiian breeze and tears streamed down my cheek. Thumb tacked—that's just how I felt—thumb tacked to my home! Everytime I wanted to go out I had to weigh the cost of baby sitting, if I could find a baby sitter, against the food budget or think of little hands tugging at my skirts and crying to go home while I shopped just for the necessities. 724 Resentment, acrid and hurting, choked all the beauty of my island home from my heart and mind and I longed to be free to go to work again. I had known the important feeling of being a head dietitian at one of the hospitals before I was married. I knew the feel of money of my own jingling in my pockets—to be free like my husband, talking with new vital people everyday. Just the luxury of talking real talk would seem like heaven and having luncheons. Which didn't have to be accounted for out of the family food budget! Like the diapers whipping vigorously, the harder my mind wrestled and twisted and thrashed as thoughts breezed through, the more I felt helplessly pinned. It was the treadmill of everyday blending into the last and so it seemed it would be forever! Emotionally spent and hurting all over with "outside-itis," out of the clear blue—too audibly to deny—came the thought quiet and pleading, '""Have you forgotten? Have you forgotten so soon?" Somersaulting one upon the other came thoughts of the prayers I once asked to find just the right man for me, then the prayer for a temple marriage, My Daughter and then prayers that followed later that a healthy child, then another and another be born. Then sobbing in humility for all I had forgotten, I determined from that moment—if I could not go out to find the business world—I would make our home my business and bring all I had learned into my home. I would find the excitement there. And if I couldn't find it I would create it. The same thought would go into running our home eflficiently as if I were still in the business world. I realized for the first time that my home held all the possibilities of achievement I could hope to find outside in any field. And with that thought I actually became transfused with new life and began making the change from housewife to professional homemaker. Looking at my kitchen I saw it through different eyes. I couldn't believe the disorder in terms of what would have been done at the hospital. Pots and pans were unbelievably far from the center of preparation. With a sense of being alive again I thought in terms of casseroles being prepared, the making of bread, cakes being baked. Pots Lillian Y. Bradshaw and pans were rearranged and shifted to a different cupboard, closer to the flour and sugar supplies. The mixer was placed on a counter. Minutes were added to my day—five minutes to be exact in baking a cake. Watching the clock, I began to calculate how many minutes it took to prepare certain dishes. Saving time became a game. In most cases I was amazed to find that what seemed to take hours, in reality took only minutes. Menumaking had been important to keep costs down at the hospital, menu-making at home became important. A shopping list completed the task. I used to love to work in disorder, though at the time I didn't know it was disorder. I can well remember my sewing room when I was first married and had the luxury of an extra bedroom as my sewing room. Patterns, needles, threads, scissors, material lay out all over just as I left them. Sometimes while making a dress it would stay that way for days. And I thought I was saving time. Then your father one day commented how office desks were always cleared before the office closed and he thought I would enjoy sewing more if I put every- 725 October 1970 thing away neatly too! Though he never knew it that made me angry. How could he know what would save time or be better in our home! He had a secretary. How could he know about cut knees, and jelly fingers, and arguments stopping any sewing just as you got started? There I was making excuses again! From then on sewing scraps were gathered neatly and everything put in its own place. The material pieces to be worked on first were put apart from those to be worked on later, and the place on the pattern directions carefully underlined so that upon returning I would know immediately where to begin. Through your father's eyes, mine were opened to things as they were, and then to think professionally how they could be. Seeking to be professional in any work needing to be done in the home I little by little acquired proper tools for myself. Now minutes really began to total up. Before, I had felt time being taken from me! My children, my home, everything was taking my time away from me. With time created, I now could give time. Just aS you save money by pennies to make dollars to be able to do special things, just so you save minutes to make hours to create time to do special things. A housewife becomes a professional the moment she begins to create time by being organized. She does not expect to find time, for time is never found lying around waiting to be picked up. Minutes are saved by being organized. 726 Let me give you a few ideas of how to save time and then you, too, will know by doing someday in your own home. I told myself if I were leaving my home to go to work somewhere, looking attractive would [ be necessary. And so I arose with f or before your father in the morning, put on my makeup, and combed my hair. This was the first thing in looking the part of a professional homemaker. Dressing and making the bed were accomplished before entering the kitchen to prepare breakfast. I have taught you children to do the same. Already you have the first step to being efficiently organized. Breakfast prepared and eaten as a family, beds all made and the house put in order before you left for school has been the second step. Shortly thereafter I do some preliminary preparation for dinner that evening. With the home basically in order, you will then find that the rest of the day can be organized as you desire. Your husband is off to a_ stringently regulated day, but you will be free to choose what you will do. If it's Relief Society—you're ready to go. If it's a new baby to care for—he may be quite determined in his demands—it is your choice to care for him! Community work, taking a class in adult education, preparing a lesson, you're ready! If an emergency comes up, you're available to change plans quickly. Time is not wrapping you around its big finger, you are the master of your own time. for me, happy play for them— Wwe tried it for a year, Though the ther really 800d look told da nursery right equipment was Part of the answer, Your father and I made some for our Own backyard. I should Bea Professiona| Homemaker That's exactly what all my been about. That was the reason for Setting mar- October 1970 recess out on the play equipment. Slowly—by trial and error—I found what the span of interest was and kept just short of the maximum so as always to have you want more. If I were a teacher in school I would have the next day's work all outlined, and so in my home—professional that I was trying to become—I prepared for "school" activity the next day also. It really took only about 'ten minutes to decide what to do. With the Children's Friend as it is today I would tear out the sheets of activity and a story and put a child's name at the top just as a teacher would do. This kept it important in the child's mind to complete the assignment. I nowing fairly well what the baby's schedule would be—playtime (recess) was gauged to coincide with feeding and bathing so as to leave me free to give full attention to him. Even while the "school" was in operation it left me free to fold diapers, bake, sew. It is true there were many interruptions of "Mommy, can you help me?" or "Mommy, me," or "So and so has my crayon and won't give it back," but feeling the security of knowing what they were going to do, peace began to permeate the atmosphere. It gave me opportunity and time to teach rules for living and they learned them with their own brothers and sisters first. That which your father taught at family home evening I would reinforce into real situations. You learned to share and forgive with each other first. 728 so and so hit How much easier for you to carry out with your friends thereafter. I used a small bell to signal a change of activity and so when things needed rearranging it could be done quickly and easily. As an example a _ schedule might go like this. 9:00 School starts—Prayer and pledge of allegiance to flag. Play with clay—Make a boat, an animal and one of something you like. Color a_picture—(About now baby needs care while they color.) Recess—Play time out on equipment. (Bathe and feed baby.) Snack time — (Prepared ahead of time the children could serve themselves if baby was still fussy.) Story time — (This time I loved most of all — I could teach so much with a good story. Sometimes they were short stories followed with a story that was continued from one day to the next.) Draw picture to tell about story. Recess Dot to dot or cutting out paper dolls, T. V. Program, or whatever fitted the child's age. Use of T. V. Programs now, such as Sesame Street, would be marvelous if turned on and off at given times. 9:05 9:20 9:30 10:00 10:15 10:30 10:40 11:00 Each day a learning experience with real meaning was given, such as learning to write your name, or finding a bug and studying it—how many legs it had, taking care of pets. The possibilities are unlimited and traits freed from the Prison o; Actually it Into a Pattern that Which must be done anyway Beg Professiona| Homemaker hour Will be yours to talk U converse With a at the first of the IMportant this wij] be fore Supper was devoted to enJoying YOu children wi October 1970 the Subsequent attacks Of "outsides: ur © 80ne again Saying "Sorry Mom, Just h » that brea 800d," most Perfect of all Work in the wor d Now brin; all yo N Your own Ought € only important fee]. Not planned too? Y, ing that doesn't fade as a Mirage. Only at home before your own hearth; ve and th all your OWn. At thirst quenched I in fulfillment. WHY POETRY? The flame of Phlox | nd the Molten color Inte amet ue —_ f the Virginia creepe C,; OoMMunicatin love or wound? Righten my rottage door Enough to speak Our thought apes hang hea; the vine Or read an ther's as our own? Awaiting Sweetness of To soar with musi e Preserving ettle. Eap in dance In the field fr °sh windrows onder Paintings —weep with prose,, nil are Curing Exult in drama? N the sun Along the avenue snes fe "re Beauty Poplars 'are dropping Why, then the poet? Eaf-gold i —_ His to Magnify a SuNbeam Pon the Autumn floor Till its focus burns into a Soul, Yes, the m turity Of seed Oncisely Setting It afire lories with ripeness ith truth—the Poet's goa) —Margaret B. Shomaker —Margaret B. Jorgensen 730 Relief Society S © |B. Contest General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the third contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest; The contest is known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1970-71) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1971. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1971. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize: $100 Second prize: $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty percent to the composer and forty percent to the author. If the services of an arranger are used, the composer may wish to give credit to her by listing the name. The division of any money award with the arranger will be left to the option of the composer. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. Thecomposition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 732 Relief Society Song Contest 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the ''work'' certifying: a. Thecomposer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a bibliography of 150 words or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty percent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten percent of the marked selling price. If an author or arranger or both collaborate with a composer a division of the royalties should be made agreeable to them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural-flow with a comfortable placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size preferred is octavo or 9'' by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. | 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Judges Manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competant directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. Aos 733 K LH arta G oes Vil¢8 iting Hazel K. Todd w How Elberta came to stay with us was because Mother fell in the dog-trap hole Jimmy and I had made in the back yard to catch Horace, Bachelor Brewster's old lame dog that was always sniffing around. Jimmy was eight, two years younger than I, but he could think up things as good as I could. We had dug a big hole behind the currant bushes where Horace liked to lie and sleep and covered it with sticks and weeds. Since Horace was blind in one eye, we were sure he would fall in. Dad didn't like us to tease Horace because Mr. Brewster's was one of the places he went 734 home teaching to, and he had been trying ever since we could remember to get him active in the Church. Dad said he grew up with Lorenzo and that Lorenzo used to go to Church all the time. But now he wouldn't. Mother said he was disappointed in love because his sweetheart up and married the bishop's son, and we should be real kind to Mr. Brewster because he had come to be lonely inside and didn't want any friends. But it was easy to forget about Mother and Dad when we saw Horace limping around and sticking his nose into things when we had grudges. For one thing Mr. Brewster wouldn't let us make sand towns in the gulch that ran through his farm. He smashed our houses and everything to Ww Orace because he didn' lattering In the hole j n fit to kill, Instead of Mother. "Let's Sit here and nt home throw crabapples When he Comes along," me back With immy Said. Sober face, H Was then Mother Went ut we knew for sure On, jit Wasn't Hora, Brewster doesn't have any d he Isn't y October 1970 curling around her face. "Now, suppose you get down out of that tree and say what you mean throwing apples at me when I've done nothing to you. That's no way to do unto others as you would have them do unto you." So Jimmy climbed down out of the tree and stood there looking sheepish. "We thought you was a dog!" Jimmy blurted out in self-defense. Her mouth flew open, and her arms went down by her sides. "A dog? Well, that's a new one." And then she added like she was stating a problem in arithmetic or something, "I always knew I was no raving beauty, but I wasn't aware I resembled a dog." "Horace," I hurried to explain, "Bachelor Brewster's old lame dog. We thought it was him coming around the barn." "Well," she said, thinking it over and picking up her suitcase, "there's nothing so bad but what some good comes of it. I guess I saved Horace a good pelting." And she started to the house. Then she turned and looked us over with kind of little goodnatured crinkles around her eyes. "IT suppose you belong here?" she asked. We nodded our heads without saying anything. "Well, I came to take care of things for awhile," she said. "I understand your mother has a broken arm." I was afraid Jimmy would blurt out something about the dog trap, so I nudged him to keep still. But she just went on like she wasn't mad at us for throwing apples at her. "Just please don't throw anything more unless I bark so you know I'm a dog." 736 And then she went on up to the house. We got along fine with Elberta. She could even make good cookies and stuff, and she loved baby Janie. Mother said she was heaven sent, and it was the first time she'd had a rest since I was born. Dad said maybe it was a good thing she broke her arm. Then we caught' Elberta looking into the trap hole one day. Dad had made us fill it up, but old Horace had been digging in it because it was loose, and he had nearly cleaned it out. And we kept hoping there would be some sticks fall over the top, and he would still fall in head first. "What's this?" Elberta asked. "It's dangerous under this bush where you can't see it." So Jimmy up and told her all about the dog-trap hole and Mr. Brewster and everything because we were such good friends. "If this is the Brewster family I think it is, and I aim to find out," Elberta said when Jimmy had finished, 'Lorenzo Brewster's grandfather and my grandfather pushed handcarts across. The plains together. He has no business pushing the Church out of his life." "But Dad keeps trying to get him to come to Church," I said. Elberta looked at one of us and then the other so close we started to squirm. "Seems to me you boys ought to be working with your father instead of against him. Don't you know that love is a better weapon than hate?" So Elberta asked Mother if it was all right if she made a pie for Mr. Brewster. Of course Mother smiled happily and said anything she could do to help out with him was all right with her. A. U Dad who had stopped a minute to play with Janie having crackers and milk in her high chair, said he thought Elberta had a good idea. The first thing we knew Jimmy and I were going down the lane with a big smiling apple pie to give to Lorenzo. And we were supposed to tell him we were sorry for all the times we had teased Horace and beg his forgiveness for calling him names like Rooster. "It wouldn't be so bad," I said, "Sf we hadn't made the picture of the rooster on the can we tied on Horace. I don't think he'll forgive that." When we got nearly to his house, Jimmy stopped. "What if he grabs the pie and tells us to get out?" "Yeah," I said. "It sure would make me mad if he took the pie and didn't forgive us." "Let's hide the pie," Jimmy said, "until we see if he'll forgive us first." So we set the pie behind a rabbit bush. I told Jimmy he'd better do the knocking because he was the littlest, and Lorenzo wouldn't be so apt to pick on him. "But I'm the one that called him Rooster first," Jimmy said. So I had to knock. Mr. Brewster opened the door and looked at us. ""What you been up to this time?" he demanded. "Go on home!" And he shut the door in our faces. "Let's go eat the pie," Jimmy said. But when we got to the rabbit bush, Horace was just slurping up the last luscious morsel. That did it! Elberta Goes Visiting "Rooster Brewster!" Jimmy yelled back at the house, and I picked up a big clod and lammed it at Horace. It hit him square in the jaws just as the door opened and Lorenzo came out. We didn't wait to hear what he had to say. We ran for home. Hot and panting, we burst into the house. "He wouldn't let us 'pologize!" Jimmy screamed. "He slammed the door at us!" Mother caught Jimmy and put her good arm around him. "Just a minute. Don't get so excited." Elberta looked us over. "Didn't the pie even get to him?" she asked. "Horace gobbled up the pie!" Jimmy yelled. Her face sort of worked. "Well," she said dryly, "I hope he enjoyed it. I've never made pie for a dog before." She thought a minute, and then her face brightened. "But if at first you don't succeed, try, try again!" So in a day or two she cooked up a big batch of beautiful cream puffs and announced that she was going to do a little visiting herself. '""Lorenzo Brewster's forgotten his grandfather pushed a handcart across the plains for the Church's sake. I'm going to remind him about the strength and stamina of his forebears," she said. "He's acting like a silly nincompoop just because a better man took his girlfriend. Doesn't he know that all's fair in love and war?" | She was stuffing cream puffs into a basket as if she meant business. She stopped a minute, eyeing me up and down because I was standing there with my mouth watering. She handed me a cream puff. "Where's Jimmy?" 737 October 1970 she asked, and started picking up another one. "He's already got one," I said, motioning to the crabapple tree through the open door. She put it back with a brief glance toward the tree where Jimmy sat perched on a limb enjoying his stolen goodie. "Seems to me," Elberta muttered, '"'a slick worker like Jimmy should have been able to bribe Mr. Brewster with a pie." She started down the lane with her basket, walking with firm steps as if she was going to make an important speech at a convention. Dad smiled and stroked his chin. "I'd give a nickel to watch what goes on," he said, "but I guess we'll find out soon enough." But we never did find out for sure. It was two hours before Elberta came tripping down the lane like the world was made of honeysuckles and apple pie. We were all waiting in the living room. She just flitted in as though she was sweet sixteen, only she was old as Mother, I guess, and smiled at each of us. Dad cleared his throat and said kind of casually, "Everything go all nght?" Elberta looked a little surprised. "Why, of course," she said. "Why shouldn't it?" And then she added, "Lorenzo Brewster is a right nice man. He just needs somebody to take a personal interest in him." _ Dad and mother were exchanging pleased looks. Dad winked at Jimmy all ready to say something. "All that's been wrong with me, I just don't know how to make cream puffs,". He said. "Oh, go on with you!' Elberta 738 said. "Don't you know the way to a man's heart is through his stomach?" "But I." Mother began. But Elberta stopped her. "You didn't let him taste a sample of what was in store for him if he came to dinner." She paused and smiled to herself. "Lorenzo surely does relish cream puffs." And then she added, "He's coming to dinner Saturday. I thought you wouldn't mind since you've been trying for so long." Mother went over and put her good arm around Elberta and told her how glad she was. And Dad said, "Elberta, I wish you were permanent in the ward so you could show me how to make friends with Lorenzo." "Maybe I'll just move into the ward," Elberta laughed. Everybody seemed happy. Dad picked up Janie and threw her into the air and caught her and made her laugh. Elberta gave me and Jimmy each another cream puff from the plateful she had saved for dinner. We went out and sat in the tree and tried to think what it would be like to have Mr. Brewster eating dinner at our house. "We will have to quit teasing old Horace for sure, won't we?" Jimmy asked. "T guess so," I said. "We had better go fill that dog-trap hole up good and pile rocks on it so Horace won't fall in or dig it out again." So Lorenzo came over, and everybody was nice and polite. He held Mother's and Elberta's chairs when we went to sit down to the table, and patted Janie's curls so she smiled at him and showed her dimples. He was sitting next to Jimmy and asked if Jimmy would like to catch a few balls after dinner. I couldn't believe it, but after dinner while Elberta was washing the dishes with Mother helping as well as she could with one arm, Dad and Lorenzo and Jimmy and I went out in the back and played work-ups. Lorenzo could really bat the ball. He knocked it clean over the back fence and had to lift Jimmy over it to get the ball. Dad told us that Lorenzo used to be the star pitcher in high school. Lorenzo grinned at Dad and said, "I'd nearly forgotten that, George, it's been so long ago." The next thing we knew Dad had invited him to go to sacrament meeting with us tomorrow. Lorenzo said, well, he guessed it was time he began to live up to the example of his handcart pushing ancestors, and he had wanted to for a long time, but he just hated to break the ice. When he went to go home, he told me and Jimmy there was some fresh wet sand in the gulch, and if we wanted to, we could come and play in it. Elberta Goes Visiting "Golly, goody, Mr. Brewster!" Jimmy said with big eyes. And I patted old Horace on the head and gave him a jelly tart. He slurped it down and wagged his stumpy tail. After that Lorenzo went to Church all the time, and we visited back and forth. Jimmy and I built a big long town in the sand gulch, and Lorenzo came and looked it over and said it was real nice. Old Horace slept under the currant bushes and the crabapple tree, and we didn't pay any attention to him. It looked like Lorenzo and Elberta were getting awful friendly. So Jimmy and I hid in the crabapple tree and watched them sitting in the patio swing holding hands. The first thing you know, they were going to get married. Mother's arm _ was ready to have the cast off, so we wouldn't need Elberta any longer. Mother said it was worth having a broken arm in order to get Elberta to help Dad with Mr. Brewster. Jimmy whispered to me that it looked like Elberta was helping herself as much as she was helping Dad. Oe HAPPY EVER AFTER We were spring and youth and laughter, hand seeking hand and arms entwined. Looking toward that ever-after realm of each young lover's mind. Now, in our winter, but with smiles still young, we who have lived and loved have learned, as our song of life was daily sung, that happy ever after must be earned. —Zara Sabin 739 Notice to Magazine Subscribers In discontinuing the Relief Society Magazine as of December 1970, there are two choices open to Magazine subscribers whose subscriptions extend beyond the December issue. Subscribers may have their subscriptions transferred to the new adult (only) magazine, issue for issue, or they may have their credit balance refunded. In refunding, twenty-five cents will be paid for individual copies, $1.25 will be paid for six months, and $2.50 will be refunded for a year's subscription. If we do not hear from you by October 1, 1970, we will automatically transfer your subscription issue for issue to the new adult magazine. Should you have already been given a three months' credit on the Era subscription, and a three months' credit on an Instructor subscription, and you had six months' credit coming on the Relief Society Magazine you would then receive a year's subscription to the new magazine. If you desire to have the credit balance on your subscription refunded, kindly paste a copy of your address label from the last issue of your Relief Society Magazine to this form and send it to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, before October 1. & ee ee mg REFUND COUPON 740 Since | do not desire to apply my Relief Society subscription credit to the adult magazine after December 1970, please refund the remaining Name Address City Please attach here mailing label from your last magazine. Credit balance to me. (Send coupon to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.). Ward Stake State Zip as _ ee —_ - > ~~ = ~~ — 'We. @ " ss. 1 ik. Ws \ 's Mrs. Richard M. Nixon and daughter Tricia, who accompanied the President on his brief visit to Salt Lake City in July, managedto slip away from his programmed activities long enough to visit Temple Square and hear Doctor Alexander Schreiner give a private organ concert for them. Tricia herself then played the famed instrument with its approximately twelve thousand pipes. She expressed herself as ''thrilled'' with the organ and with her opportunity to try it out. Princess Ann of Great Britain accompanied her brother, Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, on a visit to Washington in July. In the company of the President's daughters, Tricia Nixon, and Julie Nixon Eisenhower and her husband David, they saw much of Washington and its environs. A great ball for young people was held on the lighted grounds of the White House, with President and Mrs. Nixon enjoying it from a balcony. The royal pair invited Tricia, Julie, and David to visit them in London. Colonel Elizabeth P. Hoisington, Chief of the Women's Army Corps, and Colonel Anna Mae Hays, Chief of the United States Army nurses, were made generals last June. Congress authorized the promotion of women to generals in 1967, but these are the first women to receive that rank. President Nixon nominated them for promotion and General William C. Westmoreland, Army Chief of Staff, created them generals. S Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon American actress Susan Oliver, from Cailifornia, and aviatrix Margaret Mead from Dallas, Texas, won the 1970 cross-country Powder Puff Derby by four seconds. They flew from Los Angeles, California, in Miss Oliver's Comanche plane to Bristol, Pennsylvania, in thirteen hours and thirteen minutes. Margaret Hickey has been appointed by President Nixon to a White House committee for co-ordinating relief work. She received important appointments from four other Presidents: Franklin D. Roosevelt (as head of his civilian woman-power program during World War Il), Truman, Eisenhower. And Kennedy. Margaret Ann Lucas, twenty-three; Dr. Sylvia Earle, thirty-four; Dr. Renate True, thirty-three; Alina Margarite Szman, twentyfour; and Ann Hartline, twenty-three, are scientists who spent two weeks in Jully living under water and swimming out from their habitat to study life on the bottom of the sea off the Virgin Islands. Performing admirably, the aquamaids made valuable contributions in the fields of oceanic biology and botany and marine ecology. Virginia Tanner, Utah's instructor of dancing, has been internationally acclaimed for her beautiful programs presented with creative children. She will now direct a pilot children's dance program sponsored by the National Endowments of the Arts. It will be conducted in four-week seminars in five United States school districts: in Pennsylvania, Alabama, Ohio, Oregon, and California. June Arey is director of dance in the National Endowments of the Arts. 741 They come with humble Spirits, teachable minds desiring to be taught, to learn. = Volume 57 October 1970 Number 10 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise w. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer a 742 They come to hear, willing to give heed to counsel. They come with open hearts and souls to be instructed so that they may take back to the sisters over whom they preside the fulness of the Relief Society program. They come with love for their sisters throughout the world, anticipating joyously this meeting. They come as an evidence of their devotion, to give of themselves and to share their enthusiasm for the work, to be one with the women of the Church. They come in full expectation of seeing new and better methods of doing their work and having these explained and demonstrated. They come because the Conference prepares them more beautifully to fulfill their responsibilities and to be more effective in their callings. It is realized that not all who want to come find it possible, circumstances and distances intervene, but their interest is there. The messages of the Conference and the written material sent to them are helpful. The General Board expresses appreciation to the wonderful sisters who come to Conference, for the spirit they bring, their eagerness to learn, their sincere gratitude and their happiness in their callings. We express our thanks to the families for making their attendance possible. Gathering together as sisters to further the work of the Church is pleasing in the sight of the Lord. L. W. M. = Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp = Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore Helen W. Jeppson Arlene S. Kirton 743 October 1970 Sega 8 hee (EIR TS BRS SASS, SIE > adie CONVERSION RULES CONTINUED (from page 722) 2. If the last name and address (house number and/or box number) are the same, these will be combined. SAMPLE Era Subscription List __ Relief Society Magazine Subscription List 84302JPPS1163RR17 MAR71 }| MRS. JANE R JEPPSON RALPH JEPPSON | 163 NORTH lST 163 NORTH lST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 NOV74 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL N-Ha 3. In rural areas, where house or box numbers are not used, if the names including the initials are exactly the same, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84302VLCRN259RJ15 NOV71 | MARY VALCAREE MARY VALCAREE RT 2 RT 2 BOX 59 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL S-Pe 4. \f the names are exactly the same but one has a box number and the other has no box number, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84314BNGHDA148F 10 OCT71 | MRS JANE BINGHAM JANE BINGHAM BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB72 BOX 14 Brig C-B C 13 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 5. If the names are exactly the same but one has a box number and a route number and the other has a route number only, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84302GVVS2338RN15 APR71 | NANCY GIBBS NANCY GIBBS RT 2 RT 2 BOX 338 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 MAR71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL N-BR 6. If the names are exactly the same and both have the same route number and one has a box number or house number, these will be combined. In rural areas, subscriptions will not be combined unless the names are exactly the same. (Exception: Mrs. Has been added to one name, such as Fred Jones and Mrs. Fred Jones.) SAMPLE - 84302ERCKA102BE14 OCT70 | MRS EMMA ERICKSON EMMA ERICKSON BOX 102 BOX 102 115E7THS BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 OCT73 BEL-BCl — See 744 SAMPLE Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List 84302GRAY-348N811 OCT71 | MRS JANET GRAY BRYAN GRAY 348 N 5TH E ST 348 N 5TH E BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JUL71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BEL S. B C 16 84302GRAY-348NP18 OCT70 PAM GRAY 348 N 5TH E BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 8. Are two Relief Society Magazine subscriptions and one Era subscription SAMPLE 84302CEFL-294LR12 OCT71 | MRS MARILYN R CEFALO RON CEFALO 294 LINDA WAY 294 LINDA WAY BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 MAR71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BEL-BC 11 MRS LOUISE MILLER CEFALO 294 LINDA WAY BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JUNE 71 Can-C 7 SAMPLE 84310KMMYON848H19 NOV70 | MRS JANE KAMMEYER DON KAMMEYER BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71 BOX 84 Brig C-BC3 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84305 MRS JANE KAMMEYER BOX 84 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71, 745 @ "I declare! It looks just like a waterfall. Not a very pretty one, but a waterfall all the same." I knew Mama was talking about the tears that were streaming down my cheeks and bouncing off my chin, and that she was trying to tease a smile out of me, but I couldn't smile; I just couldn't. "Whatever is the cause of this sudden water gush?" Mama asked softly. I looked out the window where I had been watching, off and on, all day. "It's the weather," I sobbed. "Oh, Mama, it's the weather." I threw both my arms around her waist, and buried my sobs in the softness of her flowered dress. "T declare," Mama said again as she stroked my hair consolingly. "I knew the weather could cause waterfalls, but I didn't expect it to be the cause of this one." She pushed me gently away and looked intently at me. I knew she was surprised at my answer but it was true. I picked up a fold of her skirt and wiped my eyes vigorously on 746 ——— it. "It's only two days until Christmas," I sniffed in explanation, "and there still isn't a single flake of snow. There isn't even a sign of it," and I started to choke up again. "Now, honey,' Mama sat me on a chair, "suppose you start at the beginning and tell me all about it." It was my turn to look surprised. It hadn't occurred to me that there was something Mama didn't know about even if she hadn't been told, she seemed that wise. So I explained about the snow cream, and what it meant to me. To me it was an important part of Christmas. Every year, after the holiday dinner, Mama had taken our big yellow bowl outside, and dipped it full of clean snow. Coming back in, she would pour a little cream, sugar, and vanilla in it, and stir it ~ lightly. I would watch her with sheer admiration while she scooped the little glass dishes full of the delicate white goodness, for to me the snow cream was the most delicious dessert in the whole world. I would put it in my mouth by tiny spoon- fuls and let it completely melt before it slipped down my throat channels and into my stomach. I remembered the cold sweet flavory taste and how I had wished, each time, that my stomach would be so big I could eat and eat and never be full. We only had snow cream at Christmas and on very special occasions, because Mama said sugar and cream were hard to come by. I remembered the evening Papa came home and told us he had been made manager of the new plant in the South, and we were going to move. "Be very careful of the yellow bowl," I cautioned Mama when she packed the china. "We want to have snow cream for Christmas in our new home.". Mama smiled. "I'm afraid there won't be any more snow cream," she said. "It doesn't snow where we are going. It rains." "No snow?" I could hardly believe my ears. "No," Mama said, "but there will be other good things to take the place of it," and the subject was closed, as far as she was concerned, that is. "It just rains," I mumbled to myself as I started to pack my clothes. "What can a person do with rain in the winter? Who ever heard of rain cream, or a rain man, or riding a sled down a rainy hill?" I thought about the rain all the while I finished packing, and I thought about it all the time we were traveling. "Mama," I said finally, "won't it ever snow where we're going?" "Not likely," she answered. Snow Cream Mama said that it had snowed once or twice where we were going, but that it was very unusual, and I made up my mind, then and there, that this Christmas would have to be an unusual time. "Mama," I said, "do you think it is silly for me to want something to eat more than I want a doll?" I asked. "Not at all," Mama answered. "What is important to one isn't to another. If this is important to you, then it isn't silly." The next day was chilly and clear, but being Christmas eve it was full of excitement, and I forgot, temporarily, my anxiety for the soft white flakes. We had electricity in our new home, and Mama had purchased two strings of little lights to put on the tree. The front room smelled piney and good, and we sat in front of the cozy fireplace listening to Mama tell the story of Jesus' birth. The tree bulbs were the only light in the room, and they glowed warmly in the semi-darkness as_ she talked. " And because we are so happy that Jesus was _ born," Mama was saying, "we celebrate his birthday each December 25th. Jesus came to earth because he loves us, and it is through love that we honor his birth by giving gifts to each other and we must learn to accept the fact that we can't have everything we want, and remember that love and giving are the really important things in life." Even though she was telling the story to all of us, I felt that Mama was trying to tell me something extra, but I didn't 747 October 1970 know exactly what. The next morning we awoke early, and we fairly tripped over ourselves as we bubbled with excitement into the front room. I didn't go to the tree, but hurried to the window. I could hardly wait to see if the snow had come. As I stood looking out at the bare ground, a feeling of disappointment touched my heart and caused me to hurt all over inside. I must learn that I can't have everything I want, I scolded myself silently to keep from crying. Then, turning around, I ran to the tree, picked up the beautiful grownup doll, and held her tightly to me hoping that no one had seen the big tear that fell in her almost real hair. Suddenly, through the blur in my eyes, I saw the round. Wooden bucket half hidden under a tree branch. Mama came over and put her arm around my waist. "This is an ice cream freezer," she said, and she told us how it worked. While Mama made the ice cream custard, the rest of us helped Papa crack the block of ice he had purchased from the ice man. We took turns turning the crank connected to the top of the freezer. Round and round and round went the tall slim can sitting between the ice and the wooden bucket. At first the handle was easy to turn, then slowly it became harder and, finally, it wouldn't turn at all. The ice cream was ready. Papa removed the crank, and Mama lifted the can out and took off the lid. Everyone crowded around and looked down in. "Oh, Mama," I breathed, not daring to hope, "is it as good as snow cream?" "Taste it and see." Mama's eyes twinkled. The white mixture was creamy and smooth, and I held a delicious spoonful in my mouth for a long moment before I swallowed. "It's even better." I hugged her again and again. Then, reaching up, I pulled her gently down so that her ear was very close to my mouth. "Put my share in the yellow bowl," I whispered softly. Mama smiled, and in her smile I saw that what was important to me was important to her. And as she handed me the bowl, I smiled back. This was the best Christmas ever. Ae HOUSECLEANING TIME I'll sweep out all the tangled webs of apathy | find, Then dust out all the crevices of worry in my mind, Remove the curtains of despair that blotted out the view, And polish windows of my soul to feel God's light shine through. —Wanda B. Blaisdell 748 —Annie Clg plin Cooking With Peanut Butter Julia Read Clark PEANUT BUTTER PIE Serve 8 Serve 100 eggs 2 2 doz. Corn syrup lec. 3 qt. Sugar lec. 3 at. Peanut butter YC, 6 c. Vanilla 1 tsp. 2 tbsp. Unbaked 8-inch pie crust 1 12 or 13 Beat eggs. Mix eggs, corn syrup, sugar, peanut butter, and vanilla together. Pour into unbaked pie crust. Bake at 350° (moderate oven) 45 to 60 minutes, until top is brown and crisp. This tastes like an old-fashioned molasses pie. PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES Yield 4 to 5 Dozen Yield 200 1 c. Fat 4c. 1 c. Peanut butter 4c. 2 c. Sugar, one white and one brown 4c. 2 eggs 8 22 c. Flour 3 qts. 14 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Tsp. Soda 2 tsp. Mix fat and peanut butter. Add both kinds of sugar, beat well. Beat in eggs. Mix flour, salt, and soda. Stir into peanut butter mixture. Make dough into small balls. Put on baking pan. Flatten with a fork. Bake at 375° (moderate oven) 10 to 15 minutes. PEANUT BUTTER FINGERS This candy is nutritious and delicious. It keeps well, travels well, and freezes well. Yield 75 Yield 450 1% lb. Butter, melted 5% Ibs. 1% c. Peanut butter 5' c. 1 qt. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 1 gal. 1 tbsp. Vanilla Y% C. 2% |bs. Powdered sugar 11 Ibs. 1 Ib. Raisins 4 lbs. 3 c. Coconut 3 ats. 1% c. Chopped peanuts (optional) 1% qts. Mix. Shape into finger size portions. Drop into chocolate glaze. CHOCOLATE GLAZE Yield 75 Yield 450 2% c. Chocolate chips llc. (semi-sweet) 12 sticks paraffin 10 sticks Melt together and turn balls in chocolate with fork. Turn balls in fingers and dip in chocolate with fork and drain on waxed paper. 750 Cooking With Peanut Butter BAKED CHICKEN WITH CRISPY PEANUT BUTTER COATING Serve 10 Serve 100 frying chicken (cut up) 4 Ibs. 40 Ibs. Flour iwc, 4%, Cc. Eges 1 14 peanut butter YC. 3% c. Salt 1 tsp. 5 tbsp. Pepper Z tsp. 2 tsp. Milk lc. 4°, ©. Dry bread crumbs lc. 10% c. Melted butter or oil % Cc. 3% c.. Dip chicken pieces in flour. Mix together eggs, peanut butter, salt, and pepper. Gradually add milk and stir well to blend. Dip chicken in peanut butter mixture and then in crumbs. Place chicken pieces on greased baking pans. Don't overlap. Drizzle oil over chicken pieces. Bake 375° for 45 minutes or until tender. This chicken is attractive and juicy, with a delicate nut flavor. PEANUT BUTTER FRENCH TOAST 12 c. Peanut butter % c. Milk 8 slices bread _ Va tsp. Salt 2 eggs margarine or butter Spread peanut butter on 4 slices of bread; put other slices of bread on top to make 4 sandwiches. Mix eggs, milk, and salt. Dip sandwiches in egg mixture. Brown sandwiches in a little fat over low heat on both sides. Serves 4. PEANUT BUTTER BROWNIES | Yield 25 Yield 100 Y% c. Shortening lc. %4 Cc. Cocoa 3c. '% c. Butter 2 c. (1 Ib.) ¥Y2 c. Peanut butter 2c. 12 c. Sugar 62 at. 4 eggs 6 eggs 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. 1 c. Flour. 4c. Flour Y2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Y2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Melt shortening over low heat, add cocoa and mix until smooth. Let cool. Cream butter and peanut butter, add sugar gradually, and continue creaming until mixture is well blended. Add eggs and vanilla and mix. Add cocoa mixture. Mix to blend. Pour into greased baking pans to a depth of % inch. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Cover with chocolate chips and let melt and spread for icing. Frosting Yield 25 Yield 100 ¥2 c. Softened butter 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y2 c. Evaporated milk 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y2 c. Cocoa 2c. + 2 tbsp. 3 c. Confectioner's sugar 12 c. Y2 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Combine softened butter with evaporated milk. Add cocoa and beat vigorously. Add powdered sugar and stir until ingredients are well blended, then beat very hard. Add vanilla and salt. Spread on brownies. 751 Edythe K. Watson | Member, General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters are thrifty. Give them some scraps of gay colorful fabrics and they will surprise you. So it was with the Relief Society sisters of the Ogden Seventy-third Ward, Weber Heights Stake, when a thoughtful sister donated her accumulation of lovely, fine quality material scraps from her sewing days. Sister Karma Dixon, President of the Seventy-third Ward, gives credit to Sister Alexia. Smith and her assistant, Sister Lettie Revill, for the basic idea and design of this clever small quilt. LINING MATERIAL The quilt measures 45 by 60 inches. A very thin material, such as a used sheet, is used as a backing for the scraps or "crazy blocks." MAKING THE BLOCKS Any size fabric scrap may be used for a "crazy block," with the exception of very large pieces. Unusual shapes add interest to the overall pattern of the quilt. Sister Dixon recommends choosing pieces within the same color range or those of complementary colors for the individual quilts. Let the size 752 PHOTOGRAPH BY J M. HESLOP and shape of the blocks create the quilt design. Each piece is applied to the thin backing and pinned in place with every visible raw edge turned under, excepting the selvage. COMPLETING THE QUILTS When the backing is covered by the blocks in a pattern to your liking, sew by machine around each block with a medium zigzag stitch using the same colored thread for all blocks. Flannel is recommended for the back of the quilt. A print or figured pattern is most practical. A light batting is used as center padding. Sister Smith used three one-pound bats for four quilts. A one-pound bat will do nicely if you are making just one. Small Quilts That Qualify The quilt was marked easily by using a board four inches wide and long enough to mark the length desired in one continuous stroke. Medium-sized stitches, rather than fine ones, were used in quilting. The finishing was done by turning the two raw edges on each side of the quilt into the center and hemming by hand with a blind stitch. Where large pieces of material were available, blocks 71/, inches Square were made and matched with a complementary color for the quilt top. This however, was more time consuming and not nearly so interesting or unusual. Why not use the same process to make sleeping bags for children? SMALL BELL Here is the bell you gave me once to ring when | had need to bring my child from play; to tinkle on the lilac haze when spring moved down the street upon the lengthening day; At silver dusk, when children's laughter rang more gentle than the bell-tone on the air, or all the songs of birds that gaily sang, filling the world with wonder everywhere. The copper gong is gone from out the bell, as are the birds that sang in summer trees, the amber glow on fields where milkweeds fell in brilliant autumn, grieving on the breeze. Gone, too, the paths we walked, green, undefiled as the sweet notes of the bell. And oh, the child. —Christie Lund Coles 753 Lillian Livingston Woolley I held his small hand in mine as we walked through the woods, just the two of us. It was going on toward evening and the cooling air carried a lovely, woodsy fragrance. The sun had almost given up its striving to send shafts of light through the upthrust branches of the tall pines. Except for an occasional bird call, it was quiet, a kind of intense quiet that caused us to cease our chatter and to walk softly. Suddenly his hand tightened in mine. I looked down to see his eyes, wide with excitement and a little fear. His other hand pointed as he came to an abrupt stop. My eyes followed the line of direction indicated and came to rest upon a clump of thick underbrush. And then I saw it, a small, furry head with large, velvety eyes and large pointed ears laid flat, was showing just above the grasses. Through the bushes we could see a little of the light brown body covered with small white spots. The tiny fawn remained motionless with only his eyes showing a sparkle of interest, curiosity, or perhaps it was fear; we could not tell. I smiled down reassuringly as we stood as motionless as the baby deer. There was a faint, rustling sound nearby. I saw the eyes of the tiny animal shift and felt the slight motion of the small body next to me as we all glanced to identify the sound. Very near on a small rise of ground, stood what I knew was the mother deer. Then several things happened almost at once. The doe made a stamping sound with her front hoofs and the baby's ears rose immediately to attention and, with an abrupt spring, the fawn was at his mother's side. They stood together looking at us, the mother's concern for the safety of her young evident in the trembling of her taut body and the watchfulness of her eyes. For a space of time we stood there, she with her son, I with mine. Then, with a rustle and a crackling of branches, they were gone. We didn't speak, my small son and I. We simply smiled as we continued our walk through the woods. HEART'S HAVEN Pale golden, under shades of night, The summer day is fading And ebony, beneath the light, Are cinder hills parading. The wind, across the miles of sage The foxtails' plumes is waving. The tangy perfume of the sage Sweeps on, wide spaces braving. Far to the east, the village lights Beckon our hearts to haven And all the deep peace of the plains Within our souls is graven. Nona H. Brown 754 Her goal now is to crochet a tablecloth, piece a quilt, and make an afghan for each of her five children, eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. In Relief Society, Sister Richins has served for many years as a faithful visiting teacher and she has rendered valued service to the other auxiliaries of the Church. All who know her are warmed by her friendly spirit and sweet attitude. Her interest in genealogy has been transferred to other family members as she has compiled a book for each of her children to carry on. Lettie Stoker, Roy First Ward, Lake View Stake, Roy, Utah, has spent more than fifty years working on genealogy. She has traced ten lines, one as far back as seven generations. In addition to her genealogy work, she pays regular visits to the temple, bakes her own bread, which she shares with others, sews, and embroiders lovely sets of pillowcases. Her family of eleven children, fifty-four grandchildren, 171 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren have benefitted very much from her work. Her life has been an inspiration to all who know her. _ I, y SS — Part II Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society LOIS'S RICE WITH MUSHROOM ALMOND SAUCE 2 c. Cooked rice (keep hot) 1 c. Chicken stock or 2 chicken bouillon cubes 2 tbsp. Chopped onion dissolved in 1 cup hot water 2 tbsp. Butter Yc. Sliced mushrooms 2 tbsp. Flour 2 tbsp. Butter Y2 tsp. Salt ¥% c. Sliced, toasted almonds dash pepper Sauté onion in butter. Add flour, salt, and pepper and cook until brown. Add stock. Stir constantly. Cook until thickened. Sauté mushrooms in butter and add to sauce. Add almonds. Serve hot sauce over hot rice. Ea NORMA'S SPINACH CASSEROLE 1 10-0z. Pkg. Frozen spinach, ¥ac. Milk cooked and drained. 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 c. Cooked rice Y% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 c. Shredded sharp cheese 1 tsp. Salt 2 slightly beaten eggs Y tsp. Rosemary, crushed 1 tbsp. Butter Mix all ingredients together and bake at 350 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes. Do not brown. All ingredients except milk and eggs may be prepared in advance and refrigerated until time to bake. ETHEL'S MACARONI MOUSSE 1 c. Elbow macaroni 1 c. Dry bread crumbs 1 green pepper 1 c. Grated nippy cheese.1 small can pimiento 1 c. Hot milk 1 large onion Ya c. Butter or substitute 3 eggs separated Cook macaroni until tender, drain, and grind with medium blade along with green pepper, pimento, and onion. Combine with crumbs and cheese. Add hot milk, melted butter, and slightly beaten egg yolks. Beat egg whites stiff and fold into macaroni mixture. Bake in large greased dripper pan or 3-quart casserole at 350° for 45 minutes. Cut in squares and serve with mushroom sauce. Serves 8 to 10. Sauce: 4 tbsp. Butter or substitute 2 cans cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Flour 1 4-0z. Can button mushrooms, drained % c. Milk 1 tsp. Lemon juice Melt butter and blend in flour. Remove from heat and stir in milk until smooth. Return to heat and cook, stirring constantly until thick and smooth. In separate bowl stir mushroom soup thoroughly with wooden spoon and add to white sauce. Blend, Add mushrooms and heat thoroughly. 756 Meatless Casseroles—Part Il BETSY'S CHEESE FONDUE lc. Milk 2 tbsp. Melted butter 1 c. Soft bread crumbs '% tsp. Salt 12 c. Grated cheese ~ dash of pepper 3 eggs Scald milk and combine with soft bread crumbs. Add next four ingredients. Stir in beaten egg yolks. Beat whites and fold in carefully. Pour into greased casserole pan and bake in pan of hot water for 30 to 45 minutes in 325° oven. Serves 6. Delicious when served with sauce. Sauce: % c. Grated raw carrots 1 tsp. Grated onion 3 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Chicken or meat stock 4 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Evaporated milk dash pepper Brown carrots and onions slowly in butter for 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Add flour and stir until smooth. Add stock and bring to boil. Add milk, chopped pimiento, and olives. BARBARA'S ENCHILADAS 1 can tortillas (15-18) 2 c. Grated cheddar cheese 2 small cans chopped ripe olives 1 c. Chopped raw onion Sauce: 2 small cans tomato sauce 1 tsp. Cumin or chili powder, to taste In a small pan pour about one inch of oil and heat to about 350°. Place tortillas one at a time in the hot oil just until soft. Do not let them get crisp. Place in the center of a tortilla about a tablespoon of cheese and about a teaspoonful each of olives and onions. Roll tortilla tightly and place in a 13 x 9 x 2" pan with the open side down. Continue until all the tortillas have been used. Prepare the sauce in a small saucepan and warm. Pour over the enchiladas and top with any remaining olives, onions, and grated cheese. Bake at 350° for about 30 minutes or until the sauce and cheese are bubbling and slightly browned. Serves 5-6. OCTOBER 2ist Eyes blue, tears of pain, hair none, years come, autumn day, years wane. Golden sun. Loved and fed Crisp air, then wed. Leaves falling, It's nice to ''be."' mother sewing, Thanks, Mom daughter growing. For having me. Laughing joy, —Marilyn M. Oswald LATE WORD 2 When the garnet and the gold of October yp em Leave that final gray word of all dead fire, wif Sinking to ember in a red leaf caught in the stubble ——, When all twigs blurr in a mist of mauve, 4 | have seen birds leave earth for the glory of the sky 4 Where clouds gather the memory of all seasons "| And swirl it into a rainbow turbulence over death, A vast hosanna of hues, a concert of color in the sky. —Dorthy J. Roberts 757 SOL TCOmMmon Verda F. Welch I have seen the tamarisk bush in a field, unimpressive and unneeded, uprooted because it grew in the way of the plow. I have seen it cut into stove lengths to give quick heat to cook a meal and bake loaves of fragrant bread. In the summer I have seen it show its gratitude for deep draughts of water by bursting forth into a mass of beautiful, feathery pinkness. Even between blossomings, its dainty branches may be used as a filler for bouquets, its soft gray-green harmonizing with any color decor. It could be called a poor man's fern. On a crisp morning, especially after a fog-enshrouded night, I have seen the tamarisk adorned in king winter's richest mantle of silver and crystal, its boughs needled to catch and hold the frost, slender and supple to arch gracefully with the treasured weight. This beauty is mine outside my window. A Cora Hill Arnold "Mama, please lie by me a little while." He was three and ready for his afternoon nap. I decided the housework could wait a few minutes more. He snuggled up to me at first and then rolled a little away to get more comfortable. I reached over and took his soft, little hand in mine, and as I thought of how much I loved him, I held it more tightly. He immediately tugged to ge his hand loose. The tighter I held it, the harder he pulled. So I opened my hanc and he snatched his away. I left mine open close to him and soon I felt him carefully place his in mine again. This time I closed my hand very gently, so he could remove his any time he so desired. But he left it there until by his quiet breathing I knew he had fallen asleep. This day I have learned a lesson, I said to myself. I must not hold too tightly as my children grow towards adulthood. If I do, they will always be trying to get away and I will lose them. But if I hold just enough so they know I love them and am always there to listen when they need to talk, if I just let them know I trust them when they do leave—then it may be they will always return. Oy ae CH HOPE Snow, deep snow everywhere, But high on a limb, a robin's there. —Grayce E. Cutler 758 rman go for a deep feeling king of and No 11 be lucky ohnny mu li feel ml home!" J old cellar wl "Lila, take yo Chapter 4 Cars crowded so close to each other Lila was almost more afraid of an accident than she was of the grinding roa behind them She covered her ears with her hands, but the noise grew wilder gas railroad cars were sucked up was gaining momentum. "Take the lower road," Steven called from the back seat. His voice was calm, his manner at once professional with an outward demeanor of fortitude. I'm just a scared sissy; Lila October 1970 thought. I'm so scared I can't breathe. Johnny turned off the highway onto the lower road but they were still in the path of the black funnel. They had barely whisked by the tall grain elevator when it smashed to the ground with a thunderous wail that echoed throughout the valley. "There goes the clubhouse," Elizabeth said, as another crash followed. "Don't take your eyes from the road, Johnny," Steven advised him. "We're still in its path. Our house is in the path this time." Lila looked at the speedometer. One hundred miles an hour. But the tornado was catching up to them! "Faster, Johnny," Steven said through clenched teeth. "We'll have to go all out to beat it!" Johnny let the car out to its full speed. The landscape was a blur. Lila closed her eyes. One bump in this old road, she thought, and we'll all go up like splinters in the wind. But Johnny's car was new and powerful and he drove it like a master. At last, and not one moment too soon, he swung onto Clover Street, slowed the car and they tumbled out into the house and down the cellar stairs. There wasn't time to catch their breath before the tornado struck. The old frame house trembled and cracked under its terrific force; even the ceiling of the cellar creaked and moaned. Johnny said: "If that ceiling doesn't hold, we're done for!" "T think it will hold," Steven assured him as the _ tornado swooped over them leaving a wild black wave of destruction 760 in its path. "Our house!" Lila sobbed. "Our house is gone. Blown away!" She was so terrified she reached out to Elizabeth, who held her tenderly. "We're safe down here," she said. "Aunt Lucinda said this old cellar was one of the best in Skylark." "Yes," Steven agreed. "It's deep enough to hold." "But look at the ceiling!" Johnny yelled. "It's sagging!" Lila straightened up. "Get the lumber beams," she told them. ""They're far back on the cement ledge. They will brace the ceiling. Aunt Lucinda had them made—a long time ago." Steven and Johnny hauled them out and put them in place. "That did it," Johnny said. "It won't tumble in for a while anyway." "There isn't anything left up there to tumble in," Elizabeth said with a wry smile. "The McIntyre home has literally gone with the wind." "We're just' waifs," Lila moaned. "No home. No Aunt Lucinda." Johnny said fiercely, "I'm glad she isn't here to see everything she owned and treasured blown to bits." Lila's head came up with a little jerk. "The letter," she said, over a little sob. "The letter she left for us—where has it gone? We don't know what she wanted us to do." Elizabeth lifted her shoulders the way Aunt Lucinda had done when there was a difficult job to be done. "She would want us to act bravely," she said. "We're not the only people in this neighborhood whose house was hit. We should thank Heavenly Father right this minute that we're alive and not hurt. We're able to go out there and help others who didn't reach their cellars or didn't have one to go to. A tornado is the craziest, most perverse thing in the world. It will skip some things and rip others wide apart and leave nothing but rubble in its path. This time, after all these years, we are part of the rubble." Her voice tightened: "But we still have each other—and a cellar." "You're right, Sis," Steven said in his quiet way. "We still have each other. Let's have family prayers." They placed the wooden chairs around the old table and knelt together as they had always done before they went to bed. Steven asked Heavenly Father for strength and wisdom in helping others and thanked him for their present blessings. "Dear Lord," he added, "I know I am asking for a little miracle, but help us find the letter our dear Aunt Lucinda left for us so that we can fulfill any request she made." Even as they prayed the howl and roar of the tornado faded into the distance. "It's gone where the bad winds go," Johnny said. "Boy! That was the wildest one I ever listened to. And the only time I have ever really been in one." A grin tipped his mouth. "My red beauty brought us through. What speed! What a car!" Steven's mouth was a grim line. He put his hands on Johnny's shoulders. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Little Brother, that was an emergency. We had to go that fast to beat the tornado. But don't try it again. I mean it. Believe me I have seen the results of speeding. I don't want that to happen to you. Don't do it again, Johnny." There was a tone in Steven's voice that Johnny didn't argue with. He turned his head and smiled at Lila. "Anything to eat down here?" he asked. "A fried doorknob would taste good to me." "Aunt Lucinda was always prepared," Lila answered. "I'll find something while the three of you go outside. I'm worried about the Wilkins'. They don't have a cellar." "You'll be okay here, Lila." Steven told her. "T want to see upstairs," she insisted. "Then [ll come back while you go out to look." Steven was the first one to venture up the stairway. The others followed, one at a time because the steps trembled and creaked with each pound of weight put on them. Lila cried out when she saw the jumbled mass of lumber and plaster; only the old upright piano stood in its usual place like a forgotten sentinel. The roof was gone, the walls were tumbled and everything else was blown away. The marble mantel where she had put the letter behind the clock was under the debris of plaster and wood and bricks from the fireplace. "Maybe the letter is under this pile of stuff," Lila said. So they lifted each piece of lumber and sifted the rubble with their 761 October 1970 fingers, searching each pile but finding nothing. "Go easy," Steven cautioned them. "There are weak spots in the floor. I can feel it shake when I walk on it. We don't want to break through. We have to use that cellar until we find out what happened to the town." "It hit the North River Clubhouse," Johnny reminded them. "That's not far from Main Street. Maybe the bank went, too." Lila noticed Elizabeth wet her lips. No doubt she was wondering what had happened to Scott. He had been on the road home from the funeral, but he had not gone to the airport, so he would have been ahead of the tornado. "Norman was the lucky one," Johnny said. "He got up there out of it." Steven frowned. "I hope so," he said. "There would be a crackup if the tornado caught a wing." Lila's heart beat up into her throat. Norman could be hurt somewhere and they wouldn't even hear about it. Telephone wires were down, electricity was off. Radio and television were dead. "We mustn't think his plane is down, Steven. Don't say that!" Her voice was brittle. "Facts are facts, Lila. You have to learn to face reality. We hope he didn't crash, but we won't know for awhile." Lila tugged at Steven's arm. "But I can't bear it, Steven. What will this world be for me without Norman? He has always been here when I needed him. Now he might be alone and hurt— even dying. Find him for me, Steven." 762 She stood pale and trembling before them. They looked at her in amazement, but they did not speak. "I have to know what's happened to Norman," she repeated. "Find out for me, Johnny. Someone uptown will know if his plane crashed. Oh, Elizabeth—" Her hands went out toward her sister. "Why didn't I know what he means to me? Why! Why didn't I know?" E lizabeth put her arms around her and let her cry against her shoulder. "I don't know the answer, Baby," she crooned. "Sometimes we look for happiness in faraway places when it's right in our own backyard. But the tornado was quite low. I watched it from the car window. It seemed to skim the ground. So let's hope his plane got above it. It would have been destroyed if they hadn't taken off. In the meantime we have to remember something Aunt Lucinda told us a long time ago. No matter what happens you have to go on. So be a good girl. Go back downstairs and fix us something to eat. We'll be back after we search the neighborhood." At that moment Johnny called from the front yard. "My car! My car is gone!" They hurried out to him. There was no trace of Johnny's new car. "Sucked up in the funnel," Steven said. "I hope you have insurance, Johnny." "Of course I do. But I want that car. It was the best car I ever had. I'll find it piece by piece and have it put together." " "Oh, Johnny," Lila called out. "Look over there where the Wilkins' lived. Their whole house is gone! Where are those dear people? They didn't have a cellar. Their house was only a shell!" They ran across the yard to the Wilkins' place. The sunflowers were whipped to the ground, and lay like naked stalks. "IT saw Casey on his bicycle after the funeral," Johnny said. "Little Pearl and Mrs. Wilkins got in the Bryson's car," Elizabeth added. "Let's hope they took the upper road—maybe stayed with friends." "They got home," Steven said. He had gone ahead and was stooping over the silent forms of Little Pearl clasped in her mother's arms. A heavy beam had struck them, killing them both. "The car that brought them home must have got away," Elizabeth whispered. "Casey—" Lila breathed. "Where is Casey? He _ hasn't anyone but a distant relative— Australia, I think. What can we do?" "We can take him in," Steven said. "We can be his family." "Oh, let's do that," Lila said. "He will need courage." "Look—over there!" Johnny pointed toward the McIntyre front yard. "That old oak tree is our symbol of courage. Its leaves are gone, its branches are twisted and broken, but its roots are still down deep and solid." Steven nodded. "It's ready to send up whatever it needs to make branches and leaves grow again." A gleam of memory sparked Lila's heart. "Casey told me only a day ago that the oak tree made The Secret of Blueberry Hill him think of Aunt Lucinda and what she stood for. Something to cling to." SL Steven's eyes gentled as he looked down the highway. "I think that is a boy on a bicycle," he observed as his eyes narrowed. He took off his coat and put it gently over Mrs. Wilkins and Little Pearl. Johnny did the same thing. "Now we'll go together to meet the boy," he said. "He will need our love and our help." Lila was alone in the cellar. She sat on the edge of the old brass bed wondering where to find enough food for five people. Casey belonged to them now. With one accord they had reached out their arms of love to a stricken boy and soothed him until the shock lessened. Now he had gone uptown on his bicycle to inform the mortuary of the tragedy of his mother and Little Pearl. Johnny had gone with him riding the handle bars of Casey's 763 October 1970 bicycle. Lila had to smile remembering how ridiculous he looked. "We'll take turns pedaling," he told Casey. "Let's just hope this bike can take the load." "Tt's a good bike," Casey said firmly. "Miss Lucinda gave it to me. She bought the best." Lila watched them ride away, then she turned back to what was left of the McIntyre house. Elizabeth was standing by the old upright piano talking to Steven. "That tornado was plain crazy," she told him. "It whirled away Johnny's new Dardenella and left this old piano without a scratch. You tell me why, Dr. McIntyre?" "No comment," Steven answered dryly. '"Now, let's search the nearby houses. Someone might need help." Lila had gone back to the cellar alone. It was late afternoon and the faint light coming through the windows would be gone before long. She must find candles and matches. They had an old lantern somewhere down here. She began the search. Everything was covered in a heavy dust either shaken down from the ceiling or blown in through cracks. The matches were in cans on the cupboard shelf, candles were in a larger can, and in the tall space underneath the cupboard she found the lantern full of oil. Aunt Lucinda had thought of everything. As Lila dusted the table and -hung the lighted lantern on a post nearby she thought about Johnny's words before he rode away. "I'll find out about Nor- 764 man's plane," he had promised. "Maybe telephone wires aren't down on the upper road. Keep hoping, Lila Bob. No time to mope." Lila lifted her chin. Johnny was right, this was no time to mope. There was work to do. She found a can of ham, cans of pineapple and peaches and a big cellophane sack of potatoes ready for frying. A crock of sweet pickles was beside the cupboard and inside on the upper shelves there were boxes of crackers, canned milk, and a large can of sweet potatoes. How did sweet potatoes taste when they were cold, she wondered as she fumbled through the cupboard drawer looking for a can opener. Then on the lower shelf far back she saw some canned heat. It was old and probably dried up by now, she thought. Aunt Lucinda had said only a few weeks ago that everything down here needed to be _ replaced. Lila winced as she remembered what an effort it had been for Aunt Lucinda to come down the cellar steps on account of her knee. She should have taken over the task and she had really meant to do so, but like everyone else she had put other duties first, she thought reproachfully. But, anyway, she decided, she would do the best she could with what she had. There were plenty of dishes and stainless steel cutlery stored in a barrel near the window; towels and cloths of all sizes were neatly folded. Lila draped a large white cloth over the table and placed the stainless at each place and put the white china plates at Steven's place. He would serve what they had to eat from the head of the table. He liked to do that when he was home. She cut the ham into slices and carefully rinsed out the old iron skillet with the emergency water. Then she opened three cans of canned heat and struck a match. A grateful sigh parted her lips when a blue flame sparked up from two cans. The third was dried out so_ she opened another can. The ham was fried, the potatoes heated, pickles and fruit and crackers spread with cheese heaped on platters, when she heard steps on the stairway. They hadn't been gone very long and Lila hoped that meant they hadn't found anyone in distress. But no one offered to explain. "Smells good down here!" Steven beamed at her. "Lila Bob, you are a miracle worker. Look at this banquet. Fit for a king, I'd say!" "Everything is ready but the milk gravy," she said as she added some of the emergency water to the canned milk. "How much water do we have?" he asked. "Could we spare a drop to wash our hands in?" | "There's plenty." She handed him a bottle. "No doubt folks who weren't hit will bring supplies soon. You know how we did when we were the lucky ones." "We are the lucky ones," Elizabeth corrected her. She covered her eyes with her hands. "Were there—many—hurt?" Lila questioned. "They were gone!" Steven answered. "Simply gone. Why The Secret of Blueberry Hill did they permit people out here to build houses without safety cellars? They were frame boxes carried away. Everything gone that was on top of the ground." "Everything but our old piano," Elizabeth reminded them. "T'll always keep that piano as a momento. It has some sort of magic endurance power." "Aunt Lucinda gave it to you when you took your music lessons," Lila said, as she made the milk gravy from the ham juice. An automobile horn honked out in front. In a moment Casey and Johnny came down the stairway. Scott Harrington followed them. "Come in. Come in." Steven went to meet him. Lila hurriedly set another place and Johnny pulled up an extra chair. Then he reached over to pick up a cracker, but Lila slapped his hand. "No, Johnny MclIntyre! You wait for the blessing," she | scolded him. "This food is manna from heaven." "Tt is!" Steven agreed as they took their seats and bowed their heads. Lila noticed that Casey scarcely tasted his food. His eyes were stricken with grief and his young body sagged wearily. He is so young, she thought, to have lived through so many heartaches. He must have food, he hasn't eaten all day. "Casey—" she smiled across the table at him. "I wish you would try my gravy. I remember how you like bread and gravy. We haven't any bread but crackers are good." Scott got to his feet. '""We do have bread," he said. "Out in 765 October 1970 the car. Bread, cake, eggs, butter, everything I could think of. I need you to help me, Casey." Casey unwound his long legs and stood up. "Sure, Mr. Harrington," he said and followed Scott up the stairs. After they were gone Elizabeth looked around the table at her brothers and sister. Her eyes had little sparks in them. "He does have a heart," she said. "People here in this town think he's a sort of Shylock because he's a banker who has to say no at times. But he is kind. He knew that Casey has to make an effort. He made him respond." "That's not all, Elizabeth," Steven said in his wise way. "We should all make Casey think that we need him. He's been the man of the house since his father was. Killed. And now." Steven shrugged. Lila said, quickly: "Scott can give him a job at the bank—errand boy or something where he is needed." "We must all need him," EKlizabeth said. "We must make him help us." "That's so right, Elizabeth," Steven agreed. "I've been thinking," he went on. "Do you realize that if we hadn't had this old cellar we would have been carried out there in Johnny's car and scattered around. That's /, why I want to build a hospital Nt with an emergency cellar where people could come if they needed to." "We'll need a pile for that sort of thing," Johnny inter, rupted. "But Tl put up what I've saved and pledge' whatever you say, Steven." \ \X. "Tll ask Scott for a loan— 766 right today," Elizabeth offered. Lila drew in her breath for courage before she spoke. "Elizabeth—Scott doesn't own the bank or its money. He is the president, but every loan has to go before the board of directors and there must be security before they will grant a loan of such a large amount. We'll have to make it a civic project—a pledge from every citizen. We'll have to ask the Woman's Guild and the North River Club—" "Blown to bits,' Johnny interrupted again. "There's nothing left there but a ghost house like ours." "But the wealthy men who built it still have their money," Elizabeth argued. "We're going to build a hospital here if I have to canvas the town in my bare feet." "Who's going where in her bare feet?" Scott asked from the doorway as he and Casey came in loaded with bags and parcels of all sizes. "Put them on the bed," Johnny said. "That's the only place. Say, Lila, can we heat up that gravy again?" "Sure we can," Lila said. "Casey, will you open another can of heat? I'll add some of that butter. Thank you, Scott. You thought of everything." He stood there tall and dignified with his arms full of groceries. "Your Aunt Lucinda taught me what to bring in an emergency," he said. There was a tone in his voice that made them all listen. "I was only twelve years old when the tornado struck our house on Center Street. We had a cellar with a few supplies— about enough for one meal. Then your Aunt Lucinda came in with supplies. Everything we needed. She did that for everybody who was caught in the path that day. Each of us thinks it will keep on missing us. Then bam! We're right in the middle of that awful roar and whirling. I know what it's like." His voice softened. "I lost my mother in that one." The cellar was quiet as a church. Casey's back was toward them as he put the parcels on the bed. Lila had lightet the last of the canned heat. She watched the flame flicker then turn steady and blue. "It's going to burn okay, Miss Lila," she heard Casey say beside her. "Are you ready for the butter?" "Yes, Casey, will you bring it to me?" Lila was sure that never in her life would she forget Scott Harrington eating bread and milk gravy with Casey and Johnny. And she would remember, too, the glow in Elizabeth's eyes when she cut each of them a piece of cake. At last Scott left them with a The Secret of Blueberry Hill promise that he would come back to tell them as soon as the trailers he had sent for arrived in Skylark. "Maybe by tomorrow. Every place in town is crammed full of people with no homes to go to. We'll get as many trailers as possible and put them in the park. I'll see you are taken care of. Good night, now." They heard his footsteps across the ceiling. A little spray of plaster sprinkled down on them with each step. "Those trailers had _ better come by tomorrow," Steven commented. "Lila, you and Elizabeth can share the old bed. Johnny and I saw two cots and Johnny's old sleeping bag back there on the ledge. Casey can use the sleeping bag." After Lila was in bed Johnny came to her side of the bed and sat down beside her. His eyes had told her earlier there was no news of Norman. "Norman?" she questioned. "Oh, Johnny, isn't there one word?" "Not a word," he repeated. "That plane just went off into space. But nobody in town knows anything for sure. Some folks have been found blocks away still alive and not badly hurt. I think Norman will come back to us. He's one of those people, Lila Bob, who can come down a mountain on his head." "IT know..." she whispered. "He has to come back, Johnny. So I can tell him—I care." "Go to sleep now," Johnny said. "But don't forget to say your prayers.." This time, Lila thought, Johnny wasn't teasing her. 767 October 1970 Lila stared up into the darkness. Ever since she could remember Norman had been in the background of her life. She had taken him for granted, she thought brokenly; she squeezed her eyes shut and felt the wet tears on her cheeks. If his plane had crashed he might be out there alone in need of help. He might be dying. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, give me a chance to let him know how much I want to take care of him. Her eyes closed wearily and she drifted off to sleep. The sound of someone moaning awakened her. She sat up, instantly alert. Elizabeth had heard the sound, too. "Steven!" she called out. "Johnny! Casey!" Lila lit the candle she had put on the table beside the bed. _ "Johnny's gone!" Steven started toward the stairway. Casey followed, then Elizabeth and Lila with the candle. Johnny was on the floor near the mantel. He must have been searching through the rubble for the letter when the chimney bricks toppled over him. He was unconscious. "Look—his hand!" Elizabeth was frightened. "Steven, that old beam he fell on had a nail in it. An old rusty nail. It's gone through his right hand!" "Get me some water and a clean cloth," Steven ordered. "Casey, get dressed. Ride your bike to Scott Harrington's apartment. He'll be able to contact the druggist. We must sterilize this at once. His hand is swelling. Elizabeth—hold him. Put both arms around him while I pull this nail out. He's still unconscious but it might wake him up. Lila, put the candle here on the floor while you get the water." By the time Lila returned with the water and cloths Steven was examining the nail in the dim candle light. "Not much blood," he commented. "The wound should bleed to cleanse itself. Has Casey left yet?" "He's on his way," Lila answered. "It's so dark out there. No street lights. No moonlight." "He's a good boy," Steven said. "He'll find his way. Aunt Lucinda gave him that bike. Ill bet it has a battery light on it." He bathed Johnny's swollen hand. It looked dark and ugly. "That's his drawing hand," Elizabeth said in a low voice. "Nothing must happen to that hand—here let me draw out the blood—it's poison." Lila turned away. She felt sick all over. "Tl get the bed ready," she said A few minutes later Steven and Elizabeth carried Johnny down the narrow stairway, feet first. They put him on the bed. His hand was bandaged but Steven watched it carefully. Johnny's eyes flickered open. Closed, then opened again. It was dawn outside. The sun was a pink mist against the cellar windows. Lila blew out the candle. "We haven't many left,' she explained. "T hope we get out of here today," Steven said, grimly. "I don't trust that ceiling:"" Johnny groaned and moved his arm. "Stay quiet, Johnny," Steven said close to his ear. The Secret of Blueberry Hill ""W hat—happened?" asked. "The chimney tumbled on you. A rusty nail went through your hand." "Rusty!" Johnny "Is it bad, Steven?" "Your sister took care of that. I think it's all right." Johnny repeated. UJ ohnny looked at each of them, then his eyes came back to Elizabeth. He grinned at her. "Remind me to kiss you when I can get up Elizabeth gave him a kiss and a tight little hug. "I should give you a big kick for prowling around up there in the middle of the night," she scolded. "Now listen," he protested. "We need that letter. It was Aunt Lucinda's last word to us. We've got to find it." "It's like looking for the proverbial needle in a _ haystack," Steven muttered. "Maybe Orson Ketchum knows what she wrote. We'll contact him as soon as possible." "T don't think he knows," Lila said. "He told me not to lose it, to put it in a safe place." "You did!" Elizabeth agreed. "No one is to blame because a tornado struck the house." She got to her feet, pacing back and forth. "Steven and I should be out there searching— someone might need us." "We've been needed here," Steven cut in. "We'll go later, after Lila gets our breakfast." Elizabeth helped her. Everything had to be served cold. Lila had used the last of the canned heat for the milk gravy the night before. 99 769 October 1970 "What's wrong with cheese for breakfast?" Elizabeth laughed. "And the milk is still sweet." "And strawberries!" Lila exclaimed, lifting two boxes from one of the sacks Scott had brought in. "He didn't mention strawberries last night." "He was looking at our sister,' Johnny teased. "Don't be silly, Johnny," Elizabeth scoffed. But Lila noticed that her eyes were very bright. "T hey ate their breakfast, each occupied with his own thoughts. Johnny went to sleep again and Steven bathed his swollen hand several times. Lila noticed the swelling was subsiding but there were still angry red marks around the wound. "This whole thing is a lesson in patience," Steven said, walking toward the window. "We are accustomed to telephones, giving orders, pushing buttons. Getting what we need on the spot!" Elizabeth shrugged. "Think of the pioneers. This gives us a faint idea of what other people have gone through to survive. We take all our comfort and luxury for granted." "YT wish they would bring that medicine," Steven demanded. "Then I would feel better." Elizabeth unwound the bandage and looked carefully at Johnny's hand. "No worse," she told them. "There comes a car,' Steven called. "Wait a minute. It's not Scott's. Hey, Lila Bob! Here's your tall lanky Norman. He has his arm in a sling and he looks § all scooped out, but he's on both feet!" 770 Lila ran to the stairs. "It is Norman," she breathed. He was standing beside the car, surveying the ruins of the old house. His face was drawn and pale and his eyes were haggard. But he was able to stride toward them with that familiar swing in his walk. Norman had come back to her! She went up the stairs, walking on air. He was already halfway across the floor. "Norman—oh, Norman," she breathed his name and held his free hand in both of her own. "You're hurt," she murmured. "Only a broken arm," he told her. "And a few bruises. We were lucky. We got out of the way of the tornado at take-off but the pilot lost his way up there. We landed ina wheat field in the middle of the night. When we got back to town and _ heard where the tornado had struck, I was half crazy. You might have been blown away forever!" "IT know." Her voice was a caress. "Norman, I prayed you would come back. You mean the world to me. I know tat now." A little muscle jerked in his jaw and his strong mouth curved into a wondrous smile. "Say that again!" he whispered, holding her hands against his breast. "Tell me I mean something special to you. Tell me again." "Oh, you do, Norman, you do!"' she whispered back. "There never has been anyone else, Lila Bob. I'd walk on nails to get to you." "Don't you dare!" she said fiercely. "Speaking of nails—"' her voice grew serious—"Johnny had an accident." Quickly she explained about the rusty nail and that they were waiting for medicine. "Tl go for it," he offered. "Johnny's hand means his life work. I'll say hello downstairs first." Scott arrived while Norman was greeting the others. He had brought a package of medical supplies. "''m late—but I had to go to the mortuary with Casey. The Relief Society sisters are with him." His eyes went to Steven and Elizabeth taking care of Johnny's hand. "As soon as you can leave Johnny with Lila and Norman Ill take you to some people who are in desperate need of your attention. Old Dr. Hartford is almost worn out." The Secret of Blueberry Hill Elizabeth lifted her head and looked directly at Scott. Her eyes challenged him. "We need a hospital in this town, Scott," she said in a firm, steady voice. "We need a good one with a safety cellar full of medical supplies ready for emergencies. It will cost money. Steven and I will give what we have saved to start the project. What can your bank do to help us?" His steel gray eyes met the challenge in her own. They are a match for each other, Lila thought. No other woman that she knew of had ever demanded anything of Scott Harrington. "I am only the president of the bank," he told her. His voice tightened. "But I promise you I will do everything I can to help. I'll even give of my own money. You have my word, Elizabeth." "That's all I ask," she said as her eyes went back to Johnny. "You have my word, too," Johnny teased her. "And the thirty bucks I've saved." "He's all mght now," Steven said. "We can leave him here with Norman and Lila. Keep the bandage wet with this solu; tion." "The trailers will be here today," Scott told Lila. "Electricians -are on the job. So we'll be back for you when they get here. Tonight you'll all sleep and eat in style." "In two-by-four style," Johnny smiled. "Get us a couple of trailers, Scott. There are six of us now Norman is back." Scott turned at the stairway. His hair was still neatly combed, his clothes were immaculately clean, but there was a smudge of dark soot across his_ cheek. 771 Elizabeth lifted her and an like a dainty Pink °sebud byt Wiped j; off with a Clean Cloth She's 4 Orkhorse When the "Make it Seven," aid and 80ing get tough. | Tather like his mouth quirked, «p> like to the kiq." be asked to dinner." "A pink Tosebud," Orman re. Lila Walked up the Cellar Stairs peated, Ooking at Lila. Their and Watched them rive a eyes held 4 moment A little in Scott's Car. Sh Ted back Sigh Parted ila's Those © Norman d J MNY with a two were Wonderfy] YS. The little tre | her voice "Steven ha la Uage al] heir Own. And Elizah th so nderfy]. Nny lay 5 ck o the pilThey neve Say they are too low. The he gs ddenly bolted red—they never Complain— Oo uprigh 4nd point d toward the JOb is tog rd for them, | celling. «7, ok! There! On't could be in their Places," tell me dream 8. Isn't that "You've Bot a Couple of hite aper Sticking out of the oun EN Sight here," Johan" Plaster th Ip of an envelope told her. "No and J Only hay t's the letter! Where IS the WO good h S between us. And ladder ila?" listen, little Sister," he sat up Norma and a Stared Up at "while we' Passing oyt bouquets he ceilin The aw the white on't forget a ew flowe for P of pape It Might be e let Cott. That Man ally came through When the Chips were Norman Said in his quiet Way. Down. He took care of Case at "Coo down, John y. We ight the Mortuary, he's been at Our pul] the ceiling Oose if we tug beck and cal] and other People's, at it. Let's take jt easy," too. Who brought the milk and 'TH get the ladder yself," the Strawberries and the Cheese?" Jo NNY called out stubbornly as "And the Medicine," Norman Swung hi legs over the side added. "He's €en up all night," the bed "Wow! Izzy!" "T thought he was Stuffed "Let's alt for Steven." Lila Shirt," Johnny Said. "H W Wrong Said. "N Man has 9 Y One hand I was." use. He can't hold Pa ceiling "Me, 00," Orman agreed jt It start t Contritely "It goes to show ¢ at We don't ally kn e 4 Crisis " ten- € looked Ster, Nor l. § Care of everybody Own here in the prj glints blue yes, ai bet jt fTlme an Tubwas blown nder the Piano and ble. Fix; & Meals, Washing Ishe Something Nagged it and held it IN cold Water, Worrying about there. Eve thing else us." out into ohnny reac Wouldn't bu air. Thing. Wait li Goldie Locks." he he Winked at Norm Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''Notes From the Field,"' inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Weber Heights Stake (Utah) Presents "Our Beautiful Lady in Blue,'' March 20, 1970 Seated, Anna Critchlow, widow of Elder William J. Critchlow. Standing on stage: Bob and Clarene Critchlow; Peggy and Bill Critchlow; twelve grandchildren. (Daughter Patricia Maughan was ill and unable to attend.) Standing at microphone: Ilene C. Jeppson, President, Weber Heights Stake Relief Society. Sister Jeppson reports: ''At our annual Relief Society Birthday Party we paid special honor to the sisters who serve Relief Society on the stake and ward basis, and to Anna T. Critchlow, our 'Special Lady in Blue.' "The stake board members and ward presidencies were dressed in blue satin skirts and white blouses. A copy of the book History of Relief Society was presented to Sister Critchlow. A short history of her life was presented and an original song written by Elizabeth Stewart, stake organist, was sung to her. "Her family and our stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics were our special guests. Over 500 enjoyed the wonderful meal Planned and prepared by the ten wards." P| October 1970 Winder Stake (Utah), Winder Ninth Ward Presents "The Time of Your Life," April 11, 1970 Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Ninth Ward of our stake involved entire families in a program sponsored by Relief Society. The program was a musical variety show entitled 'The Time of Your Life.' It consisted of thirteen musical numbers depicting the humorous side of a woman's life. It was directed by Pat Johnson and written by Jerry McMillan. "The cast contained sixty-eight people and five accompanists. More than 350 attended the presentation. Renee P. Workman is Relief Society president in the Ninth Ward." —— Brazil South Mission Relief Society Holds Annual Conference, February 13-14, 1970 Sherma Jensen, Supervisor, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society, reports: "Our annual conference was themed 'My Cup Overflows With Blessings,' and was enjoyed by eight-five sisters. The conference was under the direction of the mission Relief Society presidency consisting of Teresinha Leal, Aracy Duarte, Doli Daeal Boyer, and Secretary Claude Bortolotto. "With much care, 4 program was presented with detailed instructions, orientations, and well-organized, informed speakers. Mission President Thomas F. Jensen presided over the conference." —— Swiss Mission, Adana Branch (Turkey) Presents "Spring in Turkey," April 15, 1970 Left to right: Faye Brady; Sharron Guthrie; Norma Pierce; Shauna Johnson, Secretary; Jean Anderson, First Counselor, Adana Branch Relief Society; Barbara Bethany, Second Counselor, Dean Feniello; Sherilyn Weaver, President. Melba Christensen, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Adana Branch held a luncheon inviting the sisters to bring a friend to acquaint her with the Relief Society program. The theme for the event was 'Spring in Turkey,' and the menu consisted of Turkish foods, and Turkish water vases and Dervish Dancers were used as decorations." 774 "ANGRESSO 4 October 1970 Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents "Wonderful World of Women," May 16, 1970 Depicting the "Era of the Future," left to right: Maria McClure; Dawn Maria Hassell; Dianna Hassell; Linda Westcott; Sondra Hine. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Each ward in our stake, and each branch, assumed the responsibility for preparing a number on the program representing the era of each of the nine sisters who have served as General President of Relief Society, and one ward prepared for the era of the future. "The program was written by Pat Hunt and Hannah Fanning, and narrated by Sister Fanning. It was a most wonderful and enjoyable program and informed the sisters about the work of Relief Society. Refreshments were served and homemaking displays were enjoyed by everyone." Sacramento Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present 'Kaleidoscope of Song," April 24, 1970 Standing in front row at extreme right of picture: Onita Davis, accompanist and Caroline J. Ewing, director of Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers. Annabelle G. Nosler, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 300 enjoyed our 'Kaleidoscope of Song' presented by our Singing Mothers. Following the concert, refreshments of homemade cookies and fruit punch were served. We are most appreciative of the efforts of the sisters in our stake." ee Sharon East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "Singing Through the Years," March 31, 1970 Left to right: Florence Rogers, chorister, Sharon East Stake Relief Society; Virginia Larson, organist; Mary Olson, First Counselor; Sarah Grow, President; Norma Gardner, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Grow reports: "'In commemoration of the birthday of Relief Society, the Singing Mothers presented an hour of beautiful choral and instrumental music. The script for the occasion was written by Arta Ballif. "Following the program, refreshments were served from four banquet tables decorated in Relief Society colors. In the center of the room was a round table draped in blue satin upon which was placed a gold five-tier birthday cake made by Sister Cherrie Lyon. The Relief Society symbol was placed atop the cake. All seventeen wards participated."' 776 October 1970 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Relief Society Presents ''Come Unto Me," May 22, 1970 First, tenth, and eleventh in front row from left: Maxine T. Seymour, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society; Georgia M. Jones, Homemaking Counselor, Marilyn D. Ellison, pianist. First and second in second row: R. Glen Humphries, narrator; Marilyn S. Humphries, chorister. Tenth in third row: Gylynn B. Hudiburg, Education Counselor. Seated at organ: Floyle P. Merrill, organist. Sister Seymour reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake presented 'Come Unto Me,' by Alberta H. Christensen. An enjoyable evening was spent by all who attended. Refreshments were served by stake board members."' os Cleveland Stake (Ohio) Pays Honor To Visiting Teachers, May 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Gertrude Guynip; Pearl Huston; Velma Enkeman. Back row, left to right: Katherine Edwards; Doris Conley; Vivian Silliman; Irene Adams; Charlotte Beeler. Helen E. Noble, President, Cleveland Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'We honored our visiting teachers with a special luncheon and program which ninety-five sisters attended. Inspirational talks were given, and the Singing Mothers provided lovely music. "One sister from each ward was specially honored for outstanding service. Each | was presented with a folder of a color poloroid photograph of herself receiving the award. These sisters will treasure them always." ee Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liege District Presents "'Fancy-Fair," April 11, 1970 Sheila Ann Brown, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for the annual 'Fancy-Fair' held in the Brussels-Liége District was 'If All the People in the World Wished to Extend Their Hands in Friendship.' The six participating branches chose to represent Belgium, the United States, the Far East, Holland, Hungary, and Italy. "The entire evening was planned harmoniously around these countries with people dressed in colorful costumes, programs, foods, decorations, songs, and dances from the various countries. For one evening, at least, the guests knew the charm and delight of a world as it would be if all the people would extend their hands in friendship. "The picture is of the participants from the Verviers Branch who chose to represent Hungary and were taught songs and dances by a Hungarian couple." 778 October 1970 Rigby Stake (Idaho) Pre sent: onvention, April 18, ed for lon 8 service as Visi g teachers. Ame Smith, fifty-sj e Ellis; Mary Mart fifty years; M Ow, left to right: Ruth all who have Served fifty years. Ox, Preside t We Presenteg Our Outstanding Visiting I Chorus to Provide On effective Visiting 4 delightfy Presentations 780 Reading Assigy Cnapters 2 and 3: Northern Hemisphere: First Southern Hemi OBJECTiy; i t Meeting January 197] SPhere: First m eeting June 197] int woma eo th rderliness of God's " sphere of activity, Were crea ted. In the reation of Specific in vegetation [ absence of format; » things that are, Ings that amounts of things that are e ' In the earth, and upon ' the €arth, and In hea ven. (D&C ]: hd Materja] ©en used to SUCCessfy] ans bring Wers, Although this €Sson js about the creation, there e attempt to answer OW the earth w October 1970 with various theories concerning creation, he should remember that what is postulated by science today is not necessarily true, else why would the Lord say he is going to reveal the truth during the great millennium, yet future? Apparently, information about the specifics of creation was given to the saints in a former dispensation—at the time the brother of Jared was enlightened by the premortal Jesus Christ. (Eth. 3:20-28.) Moroni, writing at the end of the Nephite dispensation, said that things would be withheld from the people in the latter days until they repent of their iniquity. (Eth. 4:5-7.) The sealed portion of the Book of Mormon plates containing this information will not be revealed "until the own due time of the Lord." (2 Ne. 27:7-11.) Class Discussion Though one may want to know the scientific theories of creation for academic purposes, what position would a Latterday Saint take toward them? MAN STANDS IN AWE One need only look into the heavens on a clear night and see the multitudinous heavenly orbs to stand in awe at the wonder of all these creations. It is then that man may receive a sense of his own littleness. The Latterday Saint is reminded of the Lord's words to his' servant Joseph Smith in a modern revelation: And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. 782 And they, give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years—all these are one year with God, but not with man. The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God. Unto what shallI liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand? Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power. (D&C 88:42-47.) The vastness of the seen and the unseen heavenly bodies is a matter of constant wonderment. One astronomer suggests that on a clear night one may probably, without benefit of a telescope, see only about 3,000 stars. To imagine the total number of stars in the sky we must think of a huge library of at least half a million books, each like this. All the letters of type on all the pages of all the books of this library will be about equal in number to the stars in the sky. If we read at the - rate of a page every minute for eight hours a day, it will take us 700 years to read through this library. In the same way, if we count the stars at the rate of 1500 a minute—25 a second—it will take us 700 years to count them all. Our earth is a tiny appendage to one, and a rather inconspicuous one, of this vast multitude of stars. It is less—very much less—than the dot of an "i" in our library of half a million volumes; it ought rather to be compared to a microscopic speck of dust imprisoned between two pages. (Sir James Jeans, The Stars in Their Courses [New York: Macmillan Co.; Cambridge: University Press, 1931], p. 107. Reprinted by permission. ) Astronomers inform us that by great telescopes man is able to fathom only partially the tremendous formations of stars, dust, and gas, called nebulae, or galaxies, each being more or less similar to our own galaxy, which is one of the largest. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in calling attention to the fact that our galaxy, shaped like a wheel, is over 100,000 light years in diameter and is revolving about a group of stars that seem to be in the hub, reminded his hearers of the following verses from the Book of Abraham: And I saw the stars, that they were very great and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God; and there were many great ones which were near unto it; And the Lord said unto me: These are the governing ones; and the name of the great one is Kolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God: I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest. (Abr. 3:2-3.) (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Who Was This Jesus?" Speeches of the Year 1951- 1959, pp. 4-5.) The Lord said to Moses that he had created "worlds without number": There are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. (Moses 1:35.) In the great vision received by Abraham through the Urim and Thummim, hesaw God's creations "which were many; and they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof." (Abr. 3:12.) JESUS CHRIST AS CREATOR One of the ways in which Jesus is the "Father" is by his being the Creator of worlds. (James E. Talmage, "The Father and The Son: A Doctrinal ExposiLesson Department tion by The First Presidency and the Twelve," Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1924], pp. 465-67.) To the Prophet Joseph Smith he said that he was the one who created the heavens and the earth. (D&C 14:9; 76:24.) He testified to the Nephites that he was the Creator of all things. (3 Ne. 9:15.) Unto Moses it was revealed that the Father "by the word of [his] power... Which is [his] Only Begotten Son," Jesus Christ (Moses 1:32), created worlds, and thus our Savior was the executive through whom the will of the Father was put into effect. These creative powers belong to the Gods, who, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, constituted a council which planned and created the world and its inhabitants, information which was also revealed to Abraham. (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938], p. 349 [hereafter referred to as Teachings]; Abr. 5:1-3.) Included in this council were Adam and probably many others—as President Joseph Fielding Smith says, perhaps Enoch, Noah, and others of the prophets. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], vol. 1, pp. 74-75 [hereafter referred to as Smith, Doctrines of Salvation ].) Class Discussion Inasmuch as Jesus Christ was the Creator of worlds before he was born -on the earth, what understanding should a Latter-day Saint have regarding the miracles Christ performed during his mortal ministry? 783 October 1970 THE MEANING OF CREATE Abraham recorded that God said to those who were with him: "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth." (Abr. 3:24.) The materials out of which the earth was made already existed, for they are eternal. (Teachings, p. 181.) In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe: Further, Latter-day Saints believe that the Lord formed or organized the earth from existing universal materials. That it is impossible to create something from nothing is a spiritual as well as a scientific axiom. It is an _ established doctrine of the Church that the ultimate elements which constitute the universe are eternal, indestructible, everlasting. Whether these ultimate realities be, in the language of present-day science, molecules, atoms, electrons, or pure energy is of little concern. Whatever is the ultimate reality is eternal. Matter as we know it, and which forms the earth, is made from eternal elements. In that sense the formation of the earth was an organization rather than a creation (D&C 93:33; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:38). (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1943], p. 140.) The Prophet Joseph Smith protested vigorously against those who, in his day, believed that the earth was created out of nothing, by using the Hebrew language of the Book of Genesis to teach that the word create means to organize. He taught that element was eternal and might be organized but not created. (Teachings, pp. 350-52; D&C 93: 33.) Class Discussion What value do you see in the concept that the earth was organized out of 784 already existing materials, which are eternal? STAGES OF CREATIVE ACTS The scriptures reveal that several stages of creative acts were involved in the formation of the earth and life as we now have them. First, the spirit creation; second, the planning by the Council of the Gods in preparation for the next creative act; third, the physical creation of living things, including the earth, and the temporal condition brought about by the fall of Adam and Eve. SPIRIT CREATION Basic to Latter-day Saint belief is the fact of premortality as studied last month. Briefly, God created animals, vegetation, and man before they were placed upon the earth. In the words of the First Presidency: "... Man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents... All men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh." (The First Presidency of The Church, "The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 13 [November 1909], p. 80.) Concerning the earth and all living things, they also said: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally— "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." [D&C 77:2.] He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence. Nevertheless, the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its "distinct order or sphere," and will enjoy "eternal felicity." That fact has been made plain in this dispensation. (Doctrine and Covenants, 77:3). (Ibid., p. 81.) In a discussion of the creation, the Book of Moses and Abraham refer to this spirit creation. (Gen. 2:4-5; Moses 3:4-5; Abr. 3:18-22.) THE PLANNING OF THE PHYSICAL CREATION President Joseph Fielding Smith considers that the account in the Book of Abraham is the determination of the Council of Gods as to what shall be done before the actual building process. (Abr. 4:1-31; 5:1-21.) He refers to this account as "The Lord's Blueprint of Creation." (Smith, Doctrines of Salvation 1:74-75.) This planning council is indicated by such expressions as: "And the Gods said: Let us prepare "; "And the Gods organized them..."; "And the Gods saw that they would be obeyed, and that their plan was good"; "And the Gods concluded -.. On the seventh time they would rest." (Abr. 4:11, 12a, 21; 5:3.) PHYSICAL CREATION After the spiritual creation, the time came for the physical creation. President Joseph Fielding Smith has said:... The account of the creation of the earth as given in Genesis, and the Book of Moses, and as given in the temple, is the creation of the physical earth, and of physical animals and plants These physical creations were made out of the natural elements. (Smith, Doctrines of Salvation 1:75.) Lesson Department TEMPORAL CONDITION In the words of President Smith: -. » Now I repeat, the account in Genesis one and two [Moses 2 and 3], is the account of the physical creation of the earth and all upon it, but the creation was not subject to mortal law until after the fall. It was, therefore, a Spiritual creation and so remained until the fall when it became temporal, or mortal. (Ibid., 1:77; D&C 77:6.) As one reads the creation accounts in Genesis and Moses, he is aware that God is giving Moses the account of the physical —flesh and bones—creation. This expression is found: "and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good." (Moses 2:18.) By the physical creation all things became a living soul. The uniting of the spirit and the body make a soul. (D&C 88:15.) So it was with man, plant, and animal. The Lord said to Moses: And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul... And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally,... And it became also a living soul. For it was spiritual in the day that I created it; for it remaineth in the sphere in which I, God, created it, yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of man And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air... And they were also living souls.... (Moses 3:7, 9, 19.) Temporal creation means that the individual may pass away, being temporary or mortal. The Lord refers to the earth as having 7,000 years of temporal existence from the fall of Adam. (D&C 77:6.) 785 October 1970 AFTER THEIR KIND The Lord established in the beginning that each plant and animal should procreate after its own kind. Unto Moses and Abraham the Lord set forth this law at least twenty times in the account of the creation. Representative of this fact is the following: And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind; and it was so, as they had said. (Abr. 4:24.) SUMMARY The Pearl of Great Price provides an ancient testimony for the benefit of a modern generation. This testimony is a verification of the biblical account of the creation of the earth and living creatures, and it clarifies and brings into focus pertinent information obscure in the biblical record. The modern books of Scripture do not reveal the how of creation, but this knowledge is promised to men in a day of righteousness ushered in by the second coming of Christ. (D&C 101:32-34.) Theories and notions regarding creation are to be accepted only as_ tentative propositions, not fact. The motion and regularity of the stars and the wonder of created things upon the earth bespeak the glory and marvelous workings of God. God's multitudinous creations observed by man through scientific means represent only a fraction of what exists in the heavens. By Urim and Thummim, Abraham saw some of these creations. (Abr. 3:2-4.) 786 Orderliness or freedom from confusion describes the operations of God's work for man in providing him with an earth environment. The courses of the stars are fixed, and they move in their times and seasons by law instituted by their Creator. A modern revelation explains that through the "light of Christ"—that spirit which proceeds from the presence of God throughout all space— these heavenly orbs are governed and sustained. (D&C 88:11-13.) IMPLEMENTATION The Lord says that his house is a house of order and not one of confusion. (D&C 132:8.) Latterday Saints know that obedience to law brings successful living. The mother who teaches her children to be neat and tidy and to keep the house in order, as is their responsibility, must also develop the quality of orderliness herself. Orderliness in one's life becomes a matter of discipline. The counsel to put one's house in order has_ been expressed many times by the leadership of the Church. This advice from President George Albert Smith pertains to all families in the Church: "I pray that you may have wisdom to set your own homes in order today, not delaying." (Conference Report, April 1937, p. 36.) Class Discussion Relate the foregoing statements to a mother's responsibility as to: (1) the physical aspects of the home; (2) the spiritual aspects of the home. To be wise is to place one's life in harmony with law. The laws of the gospel of Jesus Christ require continual attention to changing habits out of harmony with those laws, and the acqulring of worthwhile practices that bring greater efficiency and wholesome living. The Nephite prophet Benjamin taught that if parents upheld the laws of God, they would teach their children the ways of truth and soberness, to love one another, and to serve one another. (Mosiah 4:15.) The key to success in living the laws of God is to place one's life in order and then to implant this same quality in the lives of those who are entrusted into one's care. These words from President Lesson Department John Taylor make the application this lesson teaches: We talk of becoming like God. What does he do? He governs this and other worlds, regulates all the systems and gives them their motions and revolutions; he preserves them in their various orbits, and governs them by unerring, unchangeable laws, as they traverse the immensity of space.... He takes care of and provides for, not only the hundreds of millions of the human family, but the myriads of beasts, fowls and fishes. We would be like him!... We are far behind, but we have time for improvement; and I think we shall have to make some important changes for the better in our proceedings, before we become like our Father who dwells in the heavens. (JD, 10:260.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) ' Message 4—Appreciation of Excellence Northern Hemisphere: First week, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To kindle anew our pursuit and appreciation of excellence. God created a universe of surpassing beauty. Man is heir to its exquisite sounds, its goldstreaked sunsets, and refreshing dawns, to the awe of thunderstorms and hurricanes at sea, to the scent of flowers, of newmown hay, and of wet earth after rain, to the touch of cool water, the petal of a flower, and grass damp with dew. Each day, regardless of season or latitude, has its special beauty. This may be of the mind or the senses. "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork." (Ps. 19:1.) The scriptures tell of the thought and careful workmanship that were lavished on the earth at its creation. Does God expect less effort on our part in what we do? With the words, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect," (Matt. 5:48) the Christ set the goal for us all. God, our Father, is to be our 787 October 1970 example, the one we seek to emulate. To us mortals, limited, bound to earth in spite of moon voyages, subject to physical, mental, emotional, and_ spiritual ills, perfection seems an impossible dream. The Lord in our time teaches us the way, "for he will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept upon precept." (D&C 98:12.) The gradual process of learning to live perfectly, however, should not divert us from the goal expected of all saints. We are to seek only the best—the best in books, the great in music, the praiseworthy in art, and the best way of life, one of compassion, love, tolerance, empathy, and loving service to both friends and enemies. Part of the way to perfection is the seeking of excellence. Paul understood this when he said, "the God of peace shall be with you" (Phil. 4:9) if you seek and do "whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things." (Phil. 4:8.) Our world often settles for the mediocre or worse. Why? Is it because excellence is difficult to attain, or that we anticipate possible failure, or that we are overwhelmed with our ignorance and our lack of knowledge, understanding, and ability? Years ago in a small town a group of great musicians gathered together to give free concerts. This they did out of their love of great music and the town. Here was surely something that was of good report and praiseworthy. _Every week no more than three hundred and fifty out of the community of thirty-five thousand turned out. How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid the unfortunate choice that most of that community made? How are we helping them to recognize excellence and seek it from their childhood on? How do we help them to choose only the best movies, music, books, and that which is honest, just, pure, lovely, virtuous, and worthy of praise? Paul]'s advice and the Lord's, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48), should give us fresh courage and strength to seek only excellence. AR LIFE SONG FOR STEPHEN Sea-song, sun-song— On your copper hair, Years are pushing at your heels With boyhood dreams to spare. 788 Wind force, cloud force, Waves against your oar; Hold to the compass in your hand For safe return to shore. —Beulah Huish Sadleir HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 4—Exercise, Posture, and Grooming Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, June 1971 { OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that proper exercise, posture, and grooming improve appearance, health, and self-confidence. INTRODUCTION Women have great potential power and unrealized possibilities if they maintain their vitality and energy. One great hindrance to reaching our full potential in life is poor health. We should make an effort 'to eliminate illness and fatigue when it is possible. For maximum physical fitness, the importance of exercise, deep breathing, correct eating, and relaxation cannot be overemphasized. GOOD POSTURE Exercise is important because it tones the muscles and encourages good posture and deep breathing. Good posture and also erect carriage add distinction to our appearance. It is desirable to have good posture because it gives an appearance of confidence and it builds good health by allowing the inner organs to function properly. Discussion Questions 1. What are some poor posture habits? 2. How can we improve our posture? 3. Name some causes of poor posture. PROPER EXERCISE AND EATING Daily exercise and balanced eating are two "musts" if we are to obtain maximum bodily health. If you have checked with your doctor and have no serious health problem, then you are free to embark on a regular exercise program to improve both health and posture. As we grow older we sometimes resort to becoming melancholy and moody. We try to escape by succumbing to watching television, when walking in the fresh air can be far more beneficial. Gardening is a wonderful exercise for the body as well as uplifting to the soul. Working with the soil in fresh air and in the sunshine contributes greatly to relieving tension and to developIng peace of mind. Walking, gardening, and swimming are some of the best exercises for women of all ages, if started in moderation and gradually increased. These exercises help tone muscles and thereby give better control to the body. A strong body promotes courage and self-confidence. It enables us to sit and arise from a chair with more grace and ease. Exer- 789 October 1970 cises will help us to be more agile and better able to take care of ourselves. IMPORTANCE OF GOOD GROOMING Your appearance reveals at a glance the general state of your health and mind. If you are neatly groomed, it indicates you care about yourself. It also indicates that you care about others by showing them the courtesy of looking your best for them. Clean and attractively arranged hair is a beauty asset. Observance of the rules of good dental hygiene will enhance your appearance. It is important to keep your skin clean and conditioned, using creams to counteract dryness when necessary. We can protect our hands with gloves when we're doing heavy work. We should give attention to our feet so that we wear properly fitting hose and shoes. No woman can look beautiful and relaxed when her feet hurt. If it is painful to walk, it affects her posture, her disposition, her facial expression, and makes it difficult for her to be pleasant and congenial with her family. CONCLUSION The human body is the handwork of God, marvelous and sacred. If we treat it with care, it will serve us well. As mothers, let us emphasize to our young people that a body that is clean and strong, agile, and well groomed, is a source of joy. Keeping our bodies vigorous and healthy helps us maintain enthusiasm for life, and as long as we have enthusiasm we have youth. 'A woman looks years younger when she smiles, when she walks with head held high, shoulders back, and a brisk gait which indicates maximum body health. Regular exercise clears the mind, relieves nervous tension, and tones the muscles, thereby creating a happier and lovelier you. SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 4—Women Are People Too Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be able to identify, understand, and satisfy her own basic needs in order to enrich her life, her family, and society. INTRODUCTION The challenges, responsibilities, and problems associated with being a woman, friend, wife, 790 mother, citizen, Church member, and sometimes a job holder, seem almost overwhelming at times. To many women they do become overwhelming. As a physician, the author has seen this inability to deal with the complexities of life expressed by women in many different ways: stomach ulcers, obesity, chronic headaches, mental depression, loss of self-respect, immoral behavior. In looking for the causes of frustrations, it is apparent that disturbed feelings and frustrations can usually be traced to some basic need of the individual which is not being satisfied. Each woman, no matter where she lives, no matter whether she is rich or poor, beautiful or plain, married, widowed, or unmarried, educated or uneducated, has basic needs. They are there whether one wants them to be or not. They are legitimate needs of which one must be aware and of which one must not be ashamed. They are related to one's identity and importance as an individual. If these needs are recognized and one learns to understand and deal with them satisfactorily, they can greatly increase one's sensitivity and capabilities. If one tries to deny or supress them, frustrations and unhappiness often result, and one becomes ineffective in carrying out responsibilities, and the achievement of life goals becomes much more difficult. RESULTS OF UNFULFILLED NEEDS Many disturbing feelings can result when a need is not satisfied. A woman may feel such things as anger, resentment, depression, hopelessness, unhappiness, fear, nervousness, restlessness, or apathy. When she feels these things she either tries to suppress or deny them. If she is Lesson Department successful in suppressing them, they may find expression in such illnesses as we have already mentioned. If she cannot suppress them, they usually manifest themselves in behavior which is still unacceptable and upsetting to her. She may have problems with her friends, may nag at her husband or children, deal harshly with her children, or may do all sorts of things which make her feel guilty and lose respect for herself. Once she loses respect for herself, a woman truly becomes an instrument of misery to herself as well as to all of those around her. WHAT ARE WOMAN'S NEEDS? In a very practical way we can identify a few of the needs a woman has that require satisfaction to make her happy and to make her a productive individual. 1. A Woman Needs to Love and Be Loved. From birth to old age one needs to love and be loved. Throughout life, health and happiness will depend, to a large extent, on the ability to love and be loved. Only to give love or only to allow oneself to be loved, is not enough. One must do both. Life's situations change, requiring one to learn and relearn ways to fill this need for love under different conditions and _ stresses. For example, when a young couple is first married and there are only two, it is not difficult to find satisfaction of this need for love, but a common situation occurs when a couple is older and has several children. The man is actively engaged in trying to attain success in his occupation. In addition, he often has many civic 791 October 1970 and Church responsibilities which take him both physically and emotionally away from the home. This is also the time when a woman is engaged in all the complicated aspects of child rearing and homemaking. At this time of life, both husband and wife need much mutual love and understanding. Very often each gives a great deal of love and attention to the children but spends less time with each other; hence there is very little opportunity for them to communicate their feelings to one another. It is very easy under these circumstances for their need for love to go unfulfilled. Feelings of resentment, anxieties, and depression begin to appear. If the cause of these feelings is not realized, the couple will grow apart and the harmony of the home will be disrupted. By being aware of this situation and by having an understanding of how it can work insidiously to block one's needsatisfaction, one can find ways to deal with this problem or to prevent it from occurring. A woman can make sure that time is set aside periodically when she and her husband can be completely alone, away from the family, so that there is the opportunity of keeping the lines of communication open and they can better understand and support each other. After a couple is married, the need for a physical expression of love with one's companion may be realized. The expression of this God-given urge is necessary to fulfill God's plan of life. One should not be ashamed of admitting this need to oneself and should seek to find as satisfactory 792 and compatible a_ relationship with one's husband as possible. A woman is often afraid to discuss this part of her relationship with her husband. Since sexual compatibility can contribute a great deal to the happiness of a marriage, it is therefore very necessary for husband and wife to communicate their feelings to each other. If this is done, most problems that exist in this relationship may be worked out. If a woman Is not married, this need for love can be fulfilled very satisfactorily, even though a sexual expression of love is not morally possible. It can be fulfilled by sharing love with children, friends, and relatives, or by helping someone who is in need of loving service. The Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and YWMIA provide many opportunities for a woman to express love through service and participation in the Church programs. It becomes very apparent, in dealing with an unmarried woman who has tried to satisfy her need for affection in an immoral fashion, that this method only results in more anxiety, guilt, and frustration, and, in addition, it creates serious problems not only for herself but for her friends and relatives. Class Discussion Give some specific ways in which a widow or unmarried woman can fulfill her need to receive love and to give love. © 2. A Woman Has a Need to Feel That She Is Worthwhile to Herself and Others. It is important for a woman to discover her own talents and have an opportunity to develop them. Her individuality and her personal growth are of prime significance. If she does not seek to broaden her horizons by developing some interest of her own, both she and her family will suffer. By being alert, inquisitive, and interested in many things, she will add a new and exciting dimension to her life and the lives of all those with whom she associates. She will also continue to grow and progress as an individual. No matter how tied down with responsibilities she may feel, she can always find a way to spend a few hours each week to do something for herself: to learn to paint, sew, take a class, or engage in some sport or other activity. It is a matter of setting priorities and realizing the great importance of this type of activity in her life. She cannot wait until her children are grown to begin these activities; she must develop a habit pattern early so that when the children are gone, she can still have a full, meaningful life. It is particularly important for a married woman to maintain an interest in many facets of life so that her husband will continue to find her an interesting and stimulating companion. Anything she can do to develop her own talents or improve herself will help satisfy her own need to feel worthwhile, and, in addition, will increase her ability to deal with the complex world in which she lives. Discussion Question How can a young mother with several small children keep pace with her husband's expanding horizons as he pursues his education and career? Although a woman very often knows she is performing a service Lesson Department for others that is worthwhile to her husband and family, she also likes to hear expressions of appreciation from them. A man often has difficulty expressing his appreciation verbally, but she can see it manifest by his gentleness, loyalty, consideration, and willingness to work hard to support her and the family. If the lines of communication are kept open between husband and wife, this need is usually satisfied. If, however, there is marital discord in the home and the woman's need for recognition is not met, she may drift away from her home and family. A woman should be very much aware of the need for recognition, because it can lead her into the acceptance of more social, Church, or civic activities than she can handle and still administer satisfactorily to the needs of her family. She should be aware of the fact that one job done well and with enthusiasm can result in more recognition than the performance of several jobs poorly done. A woman can often rationalize herself into thinking that her philanthropic activities outside the home justify her absences from it, but most women deep in their hearts realize when they are being neglectful of their children and suffer feelings of uneasiness or guilt. If a woman is reasonable about her involvement outside of the home, she will be able to find time for projects of selfdevelopment and will be able to take care of her most important responsibility—which is_ her family. Discussion Question How can young mothers with several 793 October 1970 small children and very little money satisfy their needs for self-development and self-expression? 3. A Woman Needs to Feel Secure. A woman's need to feel economically secure is a very real and important one to her. She must realize, however, that ultimate security is a personal feeling and rests with being in tune with God's purposes. Money and what it will do, do not make a woman secure. In Timothy we read, "For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows." (1 Tim. 6:10.) Though it is not preferable, a woman must at times work outside the home for economic security, for such reasons as divorce, illness, or death. Though it is difficult, a working mother can administer satisfactorily to the needs of her family. She can only do this, however, if her family means more to her than her work. If she must work, and exercises wisdom and judgment in her decisions, she can take good care of her family and be in tune with the Lord's purposes. When children are young it is best for the mother to be home with them, because it is during this time that basic traits of personality are formed. Infants and young children are very dependent and have a great need for love and attention to make them feel secure. If it is impossible for a mother to remain at home, she must be very sure that her children are cared for by someone who can give them this individual attention and love. When a child 794 returns from a hard day at school he needs a snack and a warm reception from his mother. If he returns to an empty, littered house he feels desolate and unloved. Children left in this situation often want to leave the home to spend time with other children who are likewise unsupervised. 4. A Woman Has a Need for Religious Expression. A woman is truly blessed if she and her husband have been married in the temple and are one in activity and belief in the Church. There are many ways in which the Church strengthens the marital union. If the husband is not active, partially active, or only active in body but not in spirit, then the wife has a most difficult problem but one which must be dealt with if she is to help create a happy home. Husband and wife should make every effort to communicate their separate views to one another. If there is love and consideration between them, then most often the wife will be able to satisfy her need for activity in the Church in a reasonable fashion without causing marital discord. It will often, however, be more difficult for her to understand her husband's views than for him to understand hers. She should not attribute her husband's inactivity in the Church to a lack of love for her or a disregard for the family, because this is usually not so. A man often feels very strongly that his actions must reflect true conviction and commitment, so no matter how much he loves his wife, he will not feign a belief he does not feel. Neither should she feel guilty about her husband's inactivity. Religion is a very per- sonal thing and must be dealt with in this way. If a wife has a fine husband whois a good father, it is surprising what love, patience, tolerance, faith, and prayers can do. The best way to solve the problems which come from differences in religious beliefs is to try to prevent them from occurring by marrying someone who shares the same beliefs. But if a woman has married someone who does not believe as she, or someone who has changed in his views and she does find herself with problems, let her remember that divorce can be devastating to every member of the family, and that very seldom can divorce be Lesson Department justified solely on the basis of a difference in religious beliefs. Discussion Question List ways in which the Latter-day Saint Church organizations can provide opportunities for a woman to satisfy her needs. SUMMARY A woman must come to know her own needs, and must learn how to understand them and how to deal with them if she is to be an emotionally well-balanced, happy woman. If she will do this, not only will she grow and progress as an individual, but she will be able to create a happy and healthy atmosphere for all those with whom she associates. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—Sisterhood in a Worldwide Church Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To develop an appreciation for the various cultures of the women in the Church through showing how people throughout the world share a concern for the good and the beautiful. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 3. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Publisher The Gospel Gives Unbounded Strength Belle S. SpaffordJ. Christian Co. (to women in these last days) 1053 Alexander Schreiner 1283 E. S. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah Ruth B. Lehenbauer Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints My Cup of Joy 1008 SSA In a World Where Sorrow Smith-Excell Hymns, No. 74 795 October 1970 One purpose of this lesson is to emphasize that the Church is a worldwide church and the Relief Society a worldwide organization. Not only is the Church universal with our Savior and the prophet who is his living spokesman at the head, but as members of the human race all of us are universal in our responses and feelings. We are members of the human race first, and only secondly do we belong to any particular nationality, country, or racial group. That this is true is especially evident in our responses to the creative arts. Tastes and materials with which artists work may differ somewhat from country to country and age to age, but there are fundamental emotions and fundamental truths in human experience that are shared by all the people of the world. When the five volumes of Out of the Best Books were being prepared, no particular effort was made to include selections drawn from all lands and languages. Nevertheless, in the natural process of putting things together —because literature and art are universal—quite a number of selections were included which represent various lands and languages. Most of the selections were by authors in America or the British Isles, but a sufficient number were by writers of other lands to give an international flavor to the volumes. And so in this particular lesson we focus upon the contributions of people throughout the world and upon the ideals common to the human race which they have championed through their literature and art, especially as these relate to 796 women's lives and their roles as wives and mothers. A listing of the selections in the five volumes shows a representation drawn from various lands and languages beyond the United States and the other English-speaking countries of the world: From the Bible Proverbs, chapter 3: vol. 2, p. 305 Proverbs, chapter 6: vol. 3, p. 67 Proverbs, chapter 31: vol. 2, pp. 265-66 Psalms 8 and 23: vol. 4, p. 71 Ecclesiastes, chapter 3: vol. 5, pp. 228 The Book of Job: vol. 3, pp. 105-6 The Story of Jephthah's Daughter: vol. 5, pp. 204-7 The Gospel of St. John, chapter 8: vol. 2, pp. 296 Parable of the Lost Sheep: vol. 3, p. 201 Parable of the Prodigal Son: vol. 3, pp. 200-203 From Greek Literature "The Death of Socrates" from Plato's Phaedo and Crito: vol. 4, pp. 45-49 and 163-64 Excerpts from Plato's Symposium and Republic: vol. 5, pp. 46-52 From Roman Literature Marcus Aurelius, Excerpts from Meditations: vol. 3, pp. 133-38 From Persian Literature Omar Khayyam, Excerpts from The Rubaiyat (translated by Edward Fitzgerald): vol. 1, p. 450 From French Literature Guy de Maupassant, "The Necklace": vol. 1, pp. 113-23 (short story) Colette, "The Sick Child": vol. 1, pp. 420-39 (short story) Alphonse Daudet, "The Death of the Dauphin": vol. 1, pp. 445-47 (short story) Honoré de Balzac, "Christ in Flanders": vol. 4, pp. 94-102 (short story) Speech by Emile Zola: vol. 4, pp. 241-44 From German Literature Stefan Zweig, "The Invisible Collection": vol. 1, pp. 329-42 (short story) Speech by Martin Luther: vol. 4, pp. 226- 29 From Italian Literature Luigi Pirandello "War": vol. 1, pp. 380- 85 (short story) Joseph Mazzini, "Faith and the Future": vol. 3, pp. 248-51 (written in English): From Russian Literature Leo N. Tolstoi, "Three Arshins of Land": vol. 1, pp. 132-43 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Lament': vol. 1, pp. 365-71 (short story) Maxim Gorky, "Boless": vol. 1, pp. 386- 93 (short story). Leo N. Tolstoi, "Where Love Is, There God Is Also': vol. 2, pp. 270-82 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Bet": vol. 2, pp. 351-59 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Darling': vol. 3, pp. 204-18 (short story) From Chinese Literature Poems of Wang Wei: vol. 3, pp. 129-32 Li Po, "The River Merchant's Wife" (translated by Ezra Pound): vol. 4, pp. 116-18 Lin Yutang, "The Importance of Loafing": vol. 5, pp. 220-25 (written in English) From Danish Literature Car] Ewald, Excerpts from My Little Boy: vol. 2, pp. 8-23 From Swedish Literature Selma Lagerlof, "A Christmas Guest": vol. 3, pp. 294-301 (short story) From Spanish Literature George Santayana, Sonnet III: vol. 3, pp. 254-55 (written in English) From Czechoslovakian Literature Peter Balgha, "People and Ants": vol. 4, pp. 22-27 (short story) Lesson Department From Lebanese-American Literature Kahlil Gibran, "Giving" from The Prophet: vol. 3, pp. 290-93 From India-Indian Literature Speeches by Gandhi and Nehru, vol. 4, pp. 245-48 A reading of any of the selections listed above is impressive for one thing in particular, that whatever the language, whatever the land, whatever the century, creative artists are concerned with the good and the beautiful in a way that finds response universally throughout all the human race. The same basic problems are shared by all the people of the world, as are the same ideals and aspirations. Some matters are peculiar to certain areas of the world, but most of the things that really matter—at least the things that permanently matter—are common to all people of the earth. For this lesson the following selections will be especially meaningful to review: Proverbs, chapter 31: vol. 2, pp. 265-66 "The Necklace" by Guy de Maupassant: vol. 1, pp. 113-23 "The Sick Child" by Colette: vol. 1, pp. 420-39 "The Invisible Collection" by Stefan Zweig: vol. 1, pp. 329-42 "Boless" by Maxim Gorky: vol. 1, pp. 386-93 "Where Love Is, There God Is Also" by Leo N. Tolstoi: vol. 2, pp. 270-82 "The Darling" by Anton Chekhov: vol. 3, pp. 204-18 "The River Merchant's Wife" by Li Po (translated by Ezra Pound): vol. 4, pp. 116-18 My Little Boy by Carl Ewald: vol. 2, pp. 8-23 "A Christmas Guest" by Selma Lagerlof: vol. 3, pp. 294-301 "Giving" from The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran: vol. 3, pp. 290-93 797 October 1970 The class leader should choose those selections that she feels will be most meaningful and valuable to her particular group, perhaps utilizing works that were passed over when lessons were taught during the past several years. Extensive commentaries on all the selections are already printed in the five volumes which should be fully adequate to stimulate rich class discussion, but some additional comments here will also be helpful. All of these eleven selections relate in Some meaningful way to the woman's special role as wife. Mother, and friend. Each will illuminate certain special qualities that a woman should either try to develop in her personality and character, or try to overcome if they are negative qualities. For example, chapter 31 of Proverbs focuses upon the qualities of refinement and devotion that make a truly virtuous woman. "The Necklace" emphasizes the dangers of materialism and vanity, especially in leading to the erosion of marriage. "The Sick Child" gives insight into a woman's unique role in relation to a child who is dangerously ill. "The Invisible Collection" reveals some special problems in family relationships -when love and honesty seem to be in conflict. "Boless" shows the despair of loneliness and the hunger for love and companionship felt by every woman. "Where Love Is, There God Is Also" narrates the ideals that Christ emphasized in his Sermon on the Mount. "The Darling" explores the danger of love becoming, under certain circumstances, too selfish and too possessive. "The River Merchant's 798 Clentjl ZS } Beesley Ibn SIL byw MUSIC COMPANY "'Singing Mothers'' 'Choir Directors"'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 *K ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 In relation to a child. "A Christmas Guest" focuses not so much upon a woman's role in relation to her immediate family as upon her opportunities to extend the ran's "Giving" is a beautiful statement on our need to live outside ourselves in love if we are to follow the example of the Savior. Interesting things in examining these selec. Tions from foreign lands is to note that the largest number is from New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable in. Struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest Of service. Cioth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance Payment must accompany ail orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 ~- 55 Zone5 ~___ _75 ms._.___is«w60 Zone6 ___ 85 Zone4 65 Zone7 ___ __.95 ZoneB8__1.05 — — 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department moral ideals of typical Russian literature from Past generations. Readers unfamiliar with Russian literature and culture may be Surprised to discover this—that in their great heritage there is a deep compassion for the suffering of people and a great concern for human values and ideals. Tory. The attention of class leaders and all Relief Society Sisters should be called to the paintings printed in volumes 2 through 5 of Out of the Best Books. A number of these are by English and American artists, but there are some by painters from other lands, further suggesting the universal nature of the creative arts. Reexamine the following: Vol. 2, pp. 2-3 (French) "The Holy Family," Andrea del Sarto: Vol. 3, pp. 64-65 (Italian) Ln Ra "Le Bénédicité," Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin: vol. 3, pp. 284-85 (French) "Chestnut Trees," Pau] Cezanne: vol. 4, pp. 30-31 (French) Two "Self Portraits," Rembrandt van Ryn: vol. 4, Pp. 183-86 (Dutch) "Advice to a Young Artist," Honoré Daumier: vol. Do, pp. 72-73 (French) "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte," Georges Seurat: vol. 5, pp. 210-11] (French) A review of the materials in the five volumes is not only for use in Relief Society, but also for family enrichment in the home. A 799 99 Mrs. Hannah Melinda Cook Briggs 91 Mrs. Mary Ann (Mamie) Davis Bird Syracuse, Utah Pocatello, Idaho Miss Florence Pear} Young rs. May Elizabeth Olmstead Crowley LaCrescenta, California Salt Lake ity, Utah 96 Mrs. Minnie Margetts Ross rs. Rozella May Hunt Fuller Salt Lake City, Utah esa, Arizona Miss Mary Jane Thackeray Mrs. Chioe Stoddard Rice Isaacson Salt Lake City, Utah ardston Alberta, Canada Mrs. Fannie Hester Byrd Wiseman rs. Minne Isabel Horrocks Randall Bellmont Ilinoj &den, Utah 9 5) Mrs. Ella Butler Bingham 90 Mrs. Mary Caroline Nokes Bendixsen alt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake ity, Uta Mrs. Mae Francelle Henrie Herring Mrs, Laura Alice Thuesen Blake rem, U alt Lake City, y h 94 Mrs. Martha Jane Bowcutt Dean Mrs. Susan Mae King Lyman Carrell Cokeville, Wyoming acramento, California Mrs. Adelaide Snow Killpack i Salt Lake City, Utah aaa me >ieail Ward Chalk Mrs. Martha Lundy Fields Mozingo. Fi | Goldsboro, North Carolina ro Jordon" Fitzere 4 Gardner Mrs. Elizabeth p oulsen Rowley Mrs. Ruth Clarissa Ellis Hardy llmore, Utah Bountifuy, Utah Miss Linnie My. Telford Mrs. Katie Hunt Logan, Utah Pleasanton, California 93 Mrs, Mary lizabeth Story Berry Mrs. Carrie Anderson Jensen &den, Ut Chicago, Hlinoi Mrs. Jane Br 'dget Fowler Ear Mrs. Effie Carnes Perry Killian Urray, Ut Burlington, Washington 'S. Sarah Hill Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Eames King ayette, Utah Raymond, Alberta, Canada rs. Martha Merideth Mrs Catherine Baldewyn LaCroix resno, C fornia Roc Prings, Wyo g Mrs. Jennie Ackerman Sudweeks Mrs. Rosina Clark Madsen Springville, Utah Pringville, Utah 92 Mrs. Caroline Alexander Wootton Blied Mrs. Annie Elizabeth Christensen Nielsen San ateo, Californj Oroni, Utah Mrs. Ertrude E€nia Mason Davenport Mrs. Emma Jane Bassett Northway Idaho Falls, tq East Liverpoo}, Ohio Mrs. Sarah Rosa Brimhall Davies 'S. Margaret Grace Greer Nuttall Salt Lake City, Utah rem, Uta rs. Emma Minerva Pierce Everett Mrs. Ann Rebecca Allan Twede Idaho Falls, Idaho aYSon, Utah Mrs. Effie Jolley McDon id rs. Adah Smart Willis alt Lake City, Utah Fantsville Utah Mrs, Louisa Sowards Potter Mrs, Helen argaret Clark Young win Falls, Idaho Ogan, U NOW! Cultural Refinement Hit KIT Just $2.00 The kit contains 4 full color reprints of paintings by famous masters. These are excellent visual aids tyingin with the 1970-71 lessons. BOOKS Out of the Best Books all five volumes in new paperback versions Same size as the hardbound editions. The cultural refinement lessons for the 1970-71 year will be based on selections from all five volumes. These books, anthologies of the world's greatest literature, will provide hours of satisfying enjoyment. Save $1.25 order all five paperbound volumes as a set, just $10.50. Individually, volume 1 is $2.75, volumes 2, 3, 4, and 5 are $2.25 each. And Books 6 aes BHA SBOOKS Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mall Valley Fair Mall Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 2-3, 45 Total cost $ 0.000000000. This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 4%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: CO check, 0 money order, or Cl charged established account. Please send me items circled: 1 Oct. 1970 R. S. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah c ae Does More for You! In 1913, when Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated President and we began providing electric service, there were 8 types of electric appliances for the home. By 1953, the number of household electric work savers had climbed to 56. Now there are over 200. Today in your home you re brushing your teeth, shining your shoes, opening your cans of food and doing other chores electrically — jobs you probably never thought of giving to Reddy Kilowatt ten years ago. Yes, were proud of Reddy Kilowatt's growing helpfulness to you at so reasonable a cost! Electric Fondue Thermostatically controlled heat probe, Teflon lined for non-stick serving. Switch to More Electric— Your Biggest Bargain UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. jor your Latter-day Saint gospel Ch; Id! Concepts taught in a I ° fun animated story form. Three books designed especially to assist you in teaching important gospel subjects to your children. One is entitled PRAYER, another BAPTISM, and the third TITHING. Each book is filled with colorful illustrations and is written in a style and language that children enjoy and understand. Order your —$2.50 f k. — pome, set today—$2.50 for each boo —- ie cj USE CONVENIENT ORDER i es FORM ON REVERSE SIDE \ Available also through your local LDS book dealer. \\e 3S 2 L | BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PRESS Publication Sales, 205 UPB, Provo, Utah 84601 7 ' o>, Bookstore and book dealer arstarrrs 

