[Vol26 | April 1939 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Pushing Back Last Years Nelson]

Thompson
Pushing Back Last Year's Leaves
By Kathleen B. Nelson
PUSHING back last year's leaves is a dramatic gesture. One does it with such an odd mixture of eagerness and timidity. Going into the garden the first warm day spells rare adventure. That clump of green looks promising. I advance breathless. What? Only catnip! I stoop down low to get the proper leverage to oust that intruder, and thus I perceive a dandelion impudently flaunting its lush rosette. With weed-digger poised for a ruthless slaughter, I pause to investigate, poking gently with my fingers, and see at the dandelion's margin a colony of tiny seedlings. One true leaf, crinkly and round, confirms my first hope. They are primroses. One false move, one ruthless rake and where, oh where, would all this potential loveliness have fled?
Fingers are the only tool to trust in removing last year's leaves if you truly love your garden! This first discovery is followed by another and another. The crocuses have done their own pushing and there a fat hyacinth wearing a brown-leaf girdle reminds one of a portly matron. Here are forget-me-nots, lilies of the valley and violas thickly studded with buds. One more warm day and loveliness will flash.
This pushing back last year's leaves is doubly poignant after a long illness or a catastrophe in our own lives. For just so do we come back pushing timidly among the ruins. If this is your lot this spring, take heart, be of good cheer, for if you have ever planted there awaits you happy surprise.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Can The Family Have Two Heads?
Lesson 7
By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
THE contemporary theory of marriage looks on it as a democratic co-partnership in which husband and wife have equal rights, privileges, duties, responsibilities, and obligations. As a fact, only about one-third of the marriages, even in a well educated stratum of society, reach this ideal. A study of thousands of families revealed the following situation:
Wife-dominated..................34% Husband-dominated..........32% "Fifty-fifty"..................34%
But there was a great difference in the happiness of these marriages, the percentage rated (by close friends and relatives) as happy being:
Wife-dominated................47% Husband-dominated..........61% Fifty-fifty....................87%
Obviously, if the family is to have only one head, it is safer that the husband be that head. His abdication probably indicates that he is not a very strong character to start with,?perhaps brought up under too much feminine dominance and deprived of the opportunity to develop initiative, self-respect, and readiness to accept responsibility. Such a state of affairs is probably just as unsatisfactory to the wife as to the husband.
But it is obviously much safer to have a marriage of two emotionally mature personalities who can work out their partnership on a "50-50" basis.
Among the reasons for the failure of so many intelligent and otherwise well-educated people to attain a genuine partnership in marriage are the following:
1. They scarcely know what cooperation means. The general patterns of American society are based too much on competition and conflict, rather than on cooperation.
2. In the present public school system, boys and girls are trained from childhood to think that competition of the sexes is the normal thing, not cooperation. From kindergarten onward, they compete for marks, for the teacher's favor, for election to class offices. In high school they are taught that they must go out into the world and get jobs in competition with each other,?that each sex will try to get the better of the other, perhaps by unfair tactics. All this is no preparation for real cooperation in marriage.
3. The girl's patterns may be distorted by the Masculine Protest (lesson No. 6).
4. The boy's patterns may be distorted by too much female aggressiveness and dominance (lesson No. 5).
With these handicaps, a special effort must be made to prepare young people to cooperate with each other, in order that they may work out the most satisfactory relationship in marriage. This involves:
1. Promotion of emotional maturity.
2. Getting rid of the idea of "sex equality". The sexes are not equal: Equality does not exist in nature; it is found only in the imaginary figures of the geometrists. The sexes complement each other, supplement each other, are mutually dependent. Each has its own specializations. Neither one is complete without the other. To think that either one is, in a general way, superior and the other inferior is just as unscientific as to suppose that they could possibly be equal.
3. Children should be brought up family-minded rather than herd-minded. This means closer association with their own parents and other adults (Lesson No. 8).
4. General patterns of cooperation should be promoted (as for example, through church organizations) in place of the selfish competition of much of the modern business world. If people can grow up with the idea of successful cooperation as producers and as consumers, it may be easier for them to transfer these patterns into their homes.
Instead of cooperating, husband and wife are now too often competing against each other, or even in actual conflict, over such things as the division of the budget, the use of the automobile, the opportunity for recreation, the affection of the children, and so on. (In cooperation one is working with a person toward some goal which it is possible for both to attain. In competition one is working against a person toward a goal which only one can attain. In con-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 279
flict, one is not only competing, but trying at the same time to injure or destroy the competitor.)
5. More division of labor in family life, based on biological specialization and on convenience, will also remove likelihood of conflict. No army ever won a battle if it was commanded by two generals, each with equal authority and each determined to assert his right to command. But an army can have two generals of equal rank and experience, each assigned to a particular type of work and each responsible for his own department; and they can confer profitably in staff meetings.
Many a home suffers from having two generals, each determined to be boss. At the very best, this leads to a great waste of time in talking over all sorts of trivial affairs, because each is determined to be heard before anything at all is done. It is much simpler to divide up the labor, each being responsible for certain things; then they will have time to discuss the few really important matters of new policy that arise from time to time.
Just how the division should be made is wholly a matter of convenience. The important thing is a clear understanding that each is expected to assume responsibility for certain parts of the family enterprise.
6. This is greatly helped if young people are taught, so far as possible, how to cooperate intelligently in some of the most important areas of family relationships. Among these are:
(a) The marital adjustment. Unless this is achieved fairly early in marriage, it may result in all sorts of unnecessary tension and friction, which make cooperation in any
280 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sphere more difficult. It depends largely on emotional maturity, understanding of the differences in the psychology of the sexes, and a minimum amount of information easily obtainable through a number of good books and pamphlets that are widely accessible.
(b) Handling the family income. Many men are generous, not so many are just, in this respect. Sometimes a man, feeling uncertain of his ability to maintain superiority in any other way, uses his control of the pocketbook as a club to bring his wife into submission. In a large number of successful families, the joint checking account with agreement on division of labor in taking care of expenditures proves satisfactory, but there is no one panacea. In some equally successful families the wife handles all the finances, in others the husband.
(c) Management of children. These should be, and normally are, the strongest bond uniting husband and wife in a partnership; but everyone knows that they sometimes serve as a cause of discord instead. If husbands as well as wives have a proper education for parenthood, much of the difficulty will disappear.
(d) Housework. The husband who will accept no responsibility whatever for what goes on at home is matched by the wife who expects her husband to do a hard day's work outside, then come home and do a full half of the housework as well.
(e) Recreation. Abundance of mutual, wholesome, inexpensive, constructive recreation that will break the daily monotony, bring husband and wife closer together, give them something to think about, and talk about, include the children (if there are any), is an absolutely necessary part of family relations. People should budget their time for this purpose, just as carefully as they budget their finances (much more carefully than most of us do, in fact!).
(f) Attitude toward relatives. The husband (according to a widespread complaint) expects the wife to show deference to his relatives but is sometimes careless about showing an equal amount to hers. This question of in-laws has been a hard one since the beginning of time. There is no formula to solve it automatically, but it should be faced frankly and in a broad spirit of cooperation.
Questions and Problems
1. Check over the happiest families you know and name the factors that contribute to this happiness. What factors contribute to unhappiness in family life?
2. If the wife has had a good job before marriage, do you think this experience helps to produce real cooperation between husband and wife?
3. What is the function of religion in aiding husbands and wives to achieve larger happiness and mutual understanding?
4. Would you say that there is more or less likelihood of family disintegration in a home where the wife has outside employment than where she gives most of her attention to the home? When? Why?
5. What changes in the education of young people in high school do you think would most effectively promote successful cooperation when they marry?
Out-of-door Development of the Home Beautiful