SIGNIFICANT QUOTATIONS
One of the marks of good literature is the striking manner in which truths are presented. The author's philosophy of life, or the philosophy of significant characters in the book, is often reflected in such passages, and it enriches our own philosophies to give attention to them. There are, in The Tree of Liberty, many passages worth careful consideration. A few of them follow:
"A man has the same right to liberty he has to life. A right that can't be taken from him."
"There is a strange idea that labor dishonors a man."
"A man must always want to be a leader."
"When discord had entered their relations, small things unnoticed before came between them. In trifles the old harmony was gone, and when real issues arose, they were in poor condition to come to an understanding."
"You worship my very shadow, but?you go your own way. And I suppose I wouldn't like you very much if you didn't."
"We who have been long separated from the soil have come to know how much sickness of mind and spirit has come from a loss of that contact."
"I believe so in work for the hands that I think without it we shrivel up our souls."
"These people knew the beauties of life that lifted man above the brute."
"Truth grows only in free discussion.... Coercion hardens error. And religion, of all things, should be jealously defended by the government from any hardening effect. Discussion must be kept free that the truth may prevail."
"Truth is the only proper and sufficient antagonist to error. True religion has nothing to fear from free debate, for truth is right and will prevail. But the debate must be kept free."
"We all believe in liberty. It's a question of kinds of liberty."
"We aim to set up a state which shall be for all men equally, none privileged, none greater than his neighbor."
"The thing we have to do now is to preserve our democracy while war goes on.... There is no greater responsibility than the responsibility for the lives of the citizens.... The right of each man to order his life cannot be sacrificed in any emergency, however dire. War, however disastrous, is temporary and the state remains. We cannot safely for the sake of war, destroy the ideals upon which the state must rest."
"This is the land our sons shall inherit. The valleys shall be their valleys.... These mountains shall be their mountains. And it's long enough and wide enough, God knows, so we can always be free if we will it free, to live our lives in our own way."
Study Helps
1. Discuss the strength given to our type of liberty by the different views as to what it should be, held by such men as Hamilton and Jefferson.
2. Enumerate some lessons, illustrated in the book, that our nation learned by the trial and error method.
3. Discuss how these lessons could be applied to situations today.
4. Point out some of the things in the book that you can apply efficiently to your own lives.
5. As a summary, discuss this topic: The Tree of Liberty has the characteristics of great literature because it gives the reader intellectual, emotional and ethical values. Illustrate. (Note: the above could be divided into three and made the basis, with the one that follows, of an entire lesson, if two books instead of three are chosen for the course.)
6. Read passages that show beauty of style.
7. Discuss other books or articles in contemporary literature with the same purpose as The Tree of Liberty?to make us aware of our type of government and its advantages.
Quotations from The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939, are reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers.

Social Service
EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 5
Aesthetic Values in Family Living (Tuesday, March 25, 1941)
IN our discussion of the aesthetic values in family living, we shall use the dictionary definition of the term "aesthetic," rather than conform to the prescribed meaning as presented by any particular one of the various philosophers who have discussed the term. We shall use the term in its broadest sense; i.e., aesthetic?pertaining to beauty; sensitive to the beautiful; possessing a cultivated, artistic taste; the beauty in harmony and consistency. We shall also include love in our meaning of aesthetic, as the twin sister of beauty.
The world in which we live, both the physical and social aspects of it, is beautiful only to those who see the beautiful in it. One person views a gorgeous sunset and is thereby inspired to strive for a deeper appreciation of other rich things of life; while another person views such a sunset as just another daily disappearance of the sun. One person may enjoy the privilege of a true and genuine companionship of mate or of friend, which will inspire him to live on his highest level and help him to feel that life is beautiful indeed; while another person may look upon such a companionship merely as his due and for his convenience, never realizing the value, the meaning, or the blessing of such a relationship.
True, this is because people look at things differently. But why do they look at things so differently? The likes and dislikes, the tastes, the standards of value, the degree of appreciation for beauty which people have, come largely as a result of the socialization process. It may seem somewhat trite to say once more that the family is the most important socializing agency; but when we pause to consider the extent of family influence, we realize that the triteness of the statement is overpowered by its truth. The family actually does determine, to a large extent, the likes, dislikes, tastes, attitudes, either good or bad, of family members.
Again, at this point, it seems justifiable to emphasize the power of example in comparison with the power of precept in establishing these values. It is impossible to force a child or an adult to appreciate love and beauty. Only guided contact with the beautiful and with those who exemplify a cultivated appreciation for the beautiful will develop this phase of the art of living. The parent who tells a child to do a certain thing, and at the same time does something himself that is contrary to what he has told the child, is not likely to make much of an impression on that child. It was the English poet, Quarles, who said, "Thou canst rebuke in children what they see practiced in thee..... Till reason be ripe, examples direct more than precepts.... Such as is thy behavior before thy children's faces, such is theirs behind thy back." One more thought taken from Balguy: "Whatever parent gives his children good instruction and sets them at the same time a bad example, may be considered as bringing them food in one hand and poison in the other."
MR. AND Mrs. C, parents of two sons and a daughter, thought of an excellent plan (if it had worked) of stimulating an appreciation for beauty through creating an interest in flowers. The plan was a practical one which included beauty in the house, the yard, and even affected the community; it afforded an opportunity for development that would be a source of pleasure throughout the life of each member of the family. Mr. C. and each child were given a certain plot of ground in the family's own large yard upon which he was to be responsible for raising flowers. Each was to be free to use his own individuality in the choice of flowers raised and in the arrangement of his garden. After the gardens were planted, a schedule was worked out, according to the kind of flowers grown, whereby each one was to provide flowers for the dining table for a period of one week at a time. Mrs. C cared for house plants and, therefore, did not have an outside garden, but she was to have a plant in bloom appropriate for the table when her turn came. Space does not permit a discussion of the possibilities for aesthetic development inherent in this plan. Unfortunately, only partial success was realized. The sons, Ray and Tom, showed a consistent lack of interest after their father defaulted the second time in his contract to provide flowers for the table. By the first of August, Helen was the only one who had a garden from which she could add beauty to the dining table.
In every family hardly a day passes in which opportunities do not arise for the development of the aesthetic element. Probably one of the most important reasons why the great majority of these opportunities are passed by, is because so many of us do not value highly enough the ability to appreciate beauty. And this, no doubt, is true because we have failed to realize the great happiness and richness of life enjoyed by those who have cultivated the art of responding to the beauty with which they are surrounded.
Let us consider how two different families handled the problem of redecorating their house. The T family reached the decision that it was necessary to redecorate their house. The idea was first suggested by the two children, Ella and Robert, who were in high school and who felt that the house was too shabby to be attractive to their friends. After Mr. T had agreed that the work should be done, he announced to Mrs. T that there was a certain sum of money available and that he did not expect to have to be bothered about the selection of materials?that was up to Mrs. T. After Mrs. T had spent many, many hours looking at wall paper, paint and draperies, she asked Robert if he would not like to make a trip to town with her to help make final selections. His reply was, "Why no, why should I do that? Dad said that was your work." Then Mrs. T asked Ella the same question and received a similar answer, "Why, I don't know anything about such things, and, besides, I don't want to be blamed if the others aren't pleased." When the job was completed, not one member of the family expressed hearty approval, nor did they hesitate to register disappointment with color or pattern or texture, as the case might be.
In the N family, also, there was a son and daughter of high school age, and they were faced with the problem of redecorating their home with a limited amount of money. Each member of the family was vitally interested in expressing his or her ideas as to possible color schemes, etc., and every idea presented was given due consideration. Finally, at dinner one evening, Mrs. N said, "Lucile, you are taking a course in art, why not ask your teacher for some suggestions?" "Oh! I'd love to," replied Lucile. "Why not invite the teacher and his wife to have dinner with us one evening soon, and then we could all have the advantage of hearing what he might suggest," said Mr. N. The idea was immediately carried out. The evening proved a delightful and profitable one. Suffice it to say, when the redecorating job was completed, everyone was delighted with the results, and each felt that he was at least a contributing factor in its success. This was partly due to the fact that after Mrs. N had spent many hours selecting materials and had eliminated all but two choices in each case, each member of the family was anxious to take part in the final selection. May we add that today Lucile is about to begin her senior year in college, majoring in interior decoration, and she says it was the pleasure she derived from assisting in redecorating their home that decided her choice of a major.
In evaluating the two cases above, aside from the possibilities for developing the aesthetic element, we must not forget that every satisfying activity in which the family engages as a group promotes family unity and stability.
If daughter is to have a new dress or "big brother" a new suit of clothes, why should not the color and style best suited to the particular individual be an interesting subject of conversation during the dinner hour, thus offering all members of the family an opportunity to derive benefit from the discussion?
WITH grand opera, symphony concerts, and drama in our homes by merely turning a dial, what a pity for one to grow up devoid of an appreciation for the best music and drama, that formerly were accessible only to those living in a great metropolis. How poverty stricken is the soul who has no love for music and other arts, and how rich and full is the life of one who has learned to enjoy all the beauty that surrounds him.
One family made a game of listening to the radio. The mother and father were both musicians?not musicians who could perform on any instrument, but intelligent and appreciative listeners who were anxious to give their five children the same source of pleasure which had meant so much to them. A record was kept of regular radio programs to which all the family wished to listen. When two or more members of the family were present and they wished to turn on the radio, the one whose day it was to exercise the privilege of selecting the program did so. But this privilege carried the responsibility of presenting to the other members of the family, at an opportune time, three well-thought-out reasons why he had chosen these programs. The group was free to criticize the reasons given. The youngest members, six-year-old twins, Jack and Jill, played their part in the game in an amusing manner. Jill always wanted what Mother liked, and Jack followed Daddy's choice. When they were asked for their reasons, they could give almost verbatim the reasons they had heard their parents give. Of course, the game was carried on seriously by each, but, at the same time, in the spirit of fun.
Space does not permit a discussion of all the different arts, but the same principles apply in developing an appreciation and love for each.
A sense of the beauty involved in the expression of the finest, highest type of love can be best developed in the child if he is subject to an example of such by his parents. Many parents fail to realize how sensitive children are to the manner in which one mate shows his love for the other. There is, indeed, "beauty all around when there's love at home."
In addition to the spiritual value of prayer, there is also an aesthetic value in the family group engaging in prayer. Prayer appeals to our finer sense and feelings. There is a subtle response of one's aesthetic self to prayer. Beauty, love and prayer are all important cornerstones in the rich life.
Do you belong to the large group of parents who often say, "What can I do to develop the aesthetic element in my child, since I know nothing about music, painting, or literature?" Why not plan this winter to set aside even one hour a week when the family can read together such books as The Story of World Literature, by John Macy, Krehbiel's How To Listen to Music, Thomas E. Talmage's The Story of Architecture In America, or Art, Artist and Layman by Arthur Pope. You will be surprised what one hour of such study will do to add wealth, in the form of an appreciation for beauty, to your daily living, and to what a great extent the so-called "humdrum" of life will be substituted by a vitalized response to the beauties of this world in which we live.
Problems and Questions
1. Give five suggestions as to how the movies might be used as a factor in developing the aesthetic element. Suggest five ways in which they have a negative effect.
2. Make a list of all the assets in your community that might be utilized for developing an appreciation for any of the arts.
3. Give an example of a case in which family functioning has been responsible for stimulating in a member of the group a specific interest in some form of beauty.

Mission
LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired)
Lesson XV
The Saints Find a New Home in the West (Tuesday, March 18, 1942)
WHEN the Mormon people, under the leadership of the Twelve Apostles, left Illinois, in the winter of 1845-46, it was the intention to go direct to the Rocky Mountains. At least, the pioneer group of one hundred or more men would press on to the new home. But an event occurred which prevented this, and so the pioneer company did not leave until the following year. That event was the call by the Federal Government of a battalion of Mormons, to help in the war with Mexico. This was in the summer of 1846. More than five hundred men volunteered; and in due course, they marched to the West Coast. The work performed by this Mormon Battalion forms one of the most interesting chapters in Western history; but we shall not follow these soldiers, because our concern is with the main body of the Church. However, we shall have occasion to mention them later in our story.
This call for soldiers postponed the journey of the pioneer company. To take five hundred of the young and able-bodied men from the trekking Saints, meant that some of the teams would be without drivers, or that they would have to be driven by boys or women. It meant, too, that a great many families would be left without a provider, that these would have to be taken care of by others. No doubt President Polk had been actuated by good motives in calling for this battalion. He thought, as a good many others thought, that the Mormons were bound for the West Coast. But they were not. They were bound for the Rockies. So it worked a hardship on the Saints. If they had been going to the Pacific, the call would have helped them, since it would be taking some five hundred persons west at the expense of the Government.
IT was not, therefore, till April, 1847, that the pioneer company left Winter Quarters for the West. This group consisted of 148 persons in all?143 men, 3 women, and 2 children. This was the number that left Elkhorn, a few miles distant from the river. The company carried seeds of various kinds and farming implements, so that in the new land they might plant something for reaping in the fall, for no time could be lost. Just before the company started, Elders John Taylor and Parley P. Pratt came from England with a set of surveying and other scientific instruments. These, Elder Orson Pratt, who was in the pioneer company, was able to use, for he was a surveyor as well as a preacher of the Gospel. The company was divided into large and small groups, for convenience, protection, and order in traveling.
The route followed by the pioneers was along the Platte River to Fort Laramie. Here they crossed the stream and continued over the Oregon Trail to Fort Bridger. Leaving the Trail, they struck off to Echo Canyon, over Big and Little Mountain into what is now called Emigration Canyon, and into the valley of the Great Salt Lake. They were on the way from April 5 to July 24, 1847.
For measuring distance in crossing the plains, a convert, William Clayton, had made an instrument called the roadometer. This was fastened to a wheel and measured the distance covered by marking the number of rotations of the wheel. The pioneers had covered about eleven hundred miles in 110 days. They did not travel on Sundays.
More than one hundred and forty-eight persons, however, entered the Salt Lake Valley in this first company. A little beyond Fort Laramie, now in Wyoming, the pioneer group was joined by seventeen men and women who had not been in Winter Quarters at all. They were Mississippi Saints, who had wintered in Pueblo with some members of the Mormon Battalion who were sick. In five wagons, they had traveled from that Spanish town, trying to overtake the pioneers. This brought the group to 165 persons, less one?Elder Amasa M. Lyman, who had gone to Pueblo to settle a difficulty there. There were other shiftings of the figures. In this group of seventeen Mississippi Saints were six women. Hence, not three women, but nine women, entered the Salt Lake Valley in this pioneer company. The first man in the company to enter the Valley was Orson Pratt, one of the Apostles, and the second was Erastus Snow.
THIS was no ordinary group of men and women who had entered the valley of the Great Salt Lake in search of a home for tens of thousands of other men and women. The Mormon trek to the West was a religious pilgrimage. We must never forget that, for it gives us a clue to the entire movement, as well as a key to the understanding of what happened in Utah later on, after the Saints began to build their homes. In Illinois, the Mormon people could have scattered out over the country instead of settling together. If they had done that, they would not have been molested by their neighbors anywhere. But they did not scatter out. Why? Because they had been commanded by the Lord to gather into one place. It was religion, then, that kept them together, and it was religion that sent them into the Rocky Mountains.
On the way to their new home in the West, the religious spirit was uppermost in the minds of the leaders. However, some members of the camp engaged in frivolity, card playing, and dancing. President Young, on one occasion, said:
"I had rather risk myself among the savages with ten men who are men of faith, men of mighty prayer, men of God, than to be with a whole camp when they forget the Lord and turn their hearts to folly and wickedness. Yes, I would rather be alone, and I am resolved not to go any farther with the camp unless you will consent to humble yourselves before the Lord and serve him.... How would you look if they should know your conduct and ask you what you did when you went out to seek Zion and find a resting place for the Saints where the Kingdom of God could be reared and her banners unfurled for the nations to gather to?"
After that, there was more sobriety in the camp.
THE new home was anything but attractive to the women in the company. The men were better satisfied. One of the women, on reaching the Valley and finding that it was the new home, said that she would rather go on for another thousand miles. This sentiment was echoed by other women in the group. This was probably because the place was so desolate. Scarcely a tree was in sight; the ground was dry and dusty, and the sun poured its heat upon everything. The only human figures there were a few cricket-eating Indians who did not have energy enough to get better food.
The men thought it was a pretty good place to make a home. This was very likely because they saw what could be made of it through hard work and intelligence. Brigham Young, when he first saw it with his natural eyes, had said, "This is the place." Wilford Woodruff wrote in his journal: "I was joyfully disappointed." He had evidently expected an even more dreary scene.
It was Saturday when the last of the company descended into the Valley. The next day, therefore, they held a meeting. With the wide, copper sky overhead, the lake on the west shimmering in the sun, and the tall mountains just east, the first hymns were sung, the first preaching done, and the first resolutions formed for a better life, in that lonely spot.
Early on Monday some exploring was done, to uncover the good and bad features of the place. Already some men had plowed several acres and planted some potatoes. The men still thought it was a good place to make their home. Meanwhile, Orson Pratt surveyed the new city-to-be, with the instruments brought from England. It was officially named Great Salt Lake City. Then, in August, most of the men, headed by Brigham Young, left on the return trip. They went to get their families. The journey back was a terrible one. Starvation and Indians came nearly wiping out men and animals.
Questions
1. Why did the Saints wish to go farther west than the Missouri? How far did they go?
2. Tell about the journey.
3. In what spirit did the pioneers make the journey? Tell what President Young said. What did the pioneers think of the new home?
4. Describe it.
5. Why would the returning men have little food?
Read Section 136 of the Doctrine and Covenants, for the general plan of travel by the migrating companies.
Hymn to be Sung or Read
It is suggested that the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints" be sung or read. This hymn was written by William Clayton, between the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers on the trek West, and sung frequently on the way to the Salt Lake Valley. Brother William Clayton was English by birth. He was converted by the first missionaries to England, and became secretary to the Prophet. The four stanzas of the song are knit together by a series of thoughts: first, we should be joyful, in spite of our hard lot; second, there is no reason to mourn, if we do our part; third, we shall find our new home in the West; and fourth, if we die, all will be well.
Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.