Our Homes President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940)
THE Relief Society Presidency have asked me to speak to you today along the lines of the general theme of this Conference, —The Latter-day Saint Home — a Foundation for Righteous Living. I am grateful for the confidence which this request carries with it. I shall try to make what I say render obedience to that confidence.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY
May I begin by saying that the Relief Society of the Church is far and away the greatest woman's organization in the world. It is great not alone in its aims and purposes, which are to alleviate the want, misery, and suffering of humanity; not alone in its almost earth-wide reach, for it covers the bulk of the Christian world; not alone in the achievements of its activities, though it has brought to the needy, living where it worked, food, clothing, shelter, fuel; not though it has nursed those who were sick, buried the dead of the poor, comforted those who were downhearted; not though it has sustained those who were weak in spirit, built up righteousness in the hearts of the wayward, and brought the living truth into the homes of all who give it an abiding place, to their salvation and final exaltation,—the Relief Society is greatest, not alone because of all these, but because its directing head and the great bulk of all those who make up its membership share as of right in the blessings and promises of the priesthood borne by their husbands,—the Holy Priesthood of God; greatest because its leaders and members have the right to the inspiration of the Lord in the carrying on of their work; greatest because in their work of now almost a century they have been richly endowed by that inspiration, they have been constantly directed by the Spirit of the Lord which has never departed from them since the Prophet brought a few (18) of the sisters together and set them about their work. These, Sisters, have been your sacred opportunities, and your glorious, Christ-like achievements. This unique qualification of priesthood blessing and promise that is yours, that sets you apart from all other organizations, and that gives you a power and authority that no other woman's organization in the world possesses, brings with it certain duties and responsibilities which largely determine and fix your work, which in this view must follow the pattern of the labors of Jesus,—relieving human woe and ministering to spiritual wants. The Relief Society is the handmaid to the priesthood of God in carrying on His work for the salvation of men. This is the key to every task you undertake, it unlocks the door to your every duty, it opens the gate to all your activities. The merely social, cultural, and educational activity must be left primarily to other agencies.
OUR CELESTIAL HOME
To the Latter-day Saint, the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens. In that immortal hymn, "O My Father," which is more instinct with the eternal truths of eternal relationships and of being than any other brief utterance of our time, Sister Eliza R. Snow sang:
I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy Spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why.
In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there.
When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high?
Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you.
Thus we came from a celestial home to this earth; we shall return to a celestial home when we leave this world. In that home Jesus is our Elder Brother, which shows our dignity, our rights, and our privileges. His words about His mother and His brethren, when they sought Him as He taught the people, thus take on a tender meaning and lose all tone of rebuke:
"Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." (Matt. 12:48-50)
The vision of Peter that he might go to Cornelius, runs also to the universal brotherhood of men. (Acts 10)
The priesthood-born home is the loftiest spiritual organism of which we know. Only through it can the highest exaltation come. So we may profitably consider briefly the antecedents of those of us who have come to this earth and how and why we came.
OUR INTELLIGENCES
First a few words about our intelligences,—originally uncreated and, it has been declared, co-existent with our Father.
The Lord said to Abraham: "I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen,
"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;
"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." (Abraham 3:21-23)
The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph that:
"Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." (D. & C. 93:29)
Thus has the Lord spoken as to the eternal intelligences.
OUR SPIRITUAL BODIES
Next, as to our spirits, our spiritual bodies, for after the event which God showed to Abraham He created our spiritual bodies, for the Lord has declared as to His creations:
"For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.... And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air.... Nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word." (Moses 3:5 ff)
THE LORD'S SPIRITUAL BODY
Jesus showing himself to the brother of Jared said:
"Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image.
"Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." (Ether 3:15-16)
Centuries after this, when in dire extremity for his fellow righteous Nephites, Nephi cried mightily unto the Lord, the voice of the Lord came to him saying:
"Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world....