The leadership of Washington, the eloquence of Pattick Henry, the culture of Hamilton, and the realism of Jefferson, as these qualities are stressed in the novel, were mentioned. The relationships between some of the fictional characters to these and other historical figures were pointed out. The chief members of the Howard family, together with their main traits, were presented. PHASES OF THE NOVEL NOT PREVIOUSLY CONSIDERED A novel is usually considered from the points of theme, setting, characters and plot. Liberty, its beginning and early development in America, the theme of this novel, is kept constantly before the reader. The setting, that is, the time and place of the action, has, of course, a direct bearing on the theme in this particular novel; and the characters and plot are likewise what they are because of the author's theme or purpose. The novel, in all these related aspects, is particularly significant today, when we need to know what the liberty we talk so much about really is, and (if we would preserve it) how it came into being. This book should help us to understand liberty and to comprehend our relationship to it. But there are many other interesting LESSON DEPARTMENT  aspects to a novel besides those already mentioned. The Tree of Liberty, like Adam Bede, restores the past and gives us an intimate view of a period of time which we can know only through books. Through this one we learn of manners, customs, activities in early American life which are unknown to us today. We see strange methods of transportation, of communication, manufacturing, lawmaking. We are introduced to unfamiliar traditions surrounding marriage, education, etc. The regular daily routine of the old Colonial hall is depicted. We become aware of the prevalence of class distinction that existed. We see the ideals of the aristocrat, for instance, expressed by Fleetwood Peyton when he gave to his sister, Jane, the twohundred-year-old family jewels which were a sort of symbol of the ideals for which the family stood: "It's a new family you're founding that should have its traditions.... Now listen, honey, for there's an obligation goes with these trinkets. The women who have worn them have taught their sons to place honor first, to fight bravely against odds, to play fairly, lose if needs be with a smile, to cultivate beauty and gentle mannets... To love what is high and noble and despise what is common and mean; to build pride that can sustain and lead." The chief conflict in the fictional part of the story arises from Jane Peyton's persistent effort to insure those traditions for her children and grandchildren, and her inability to see the equal worthiness of the traditions of Matthew's family?glorification of sturdy individualism, love of the land and of simple ways of life; democracy, in short. From this 849 aspect of the book we may see how important both ideals are in a wellbalanced personality. Tom and Margaret, representing the third generation of Howards, inheriting characteristics from both Jane and Matthew, are well-balanced individuals. A FEW OF THE LESSONS THAT MAY BE DRAWN FROM THIS NOVEL An illustration of the destructiveness of wrong attitudes is found in Peyton Howard's reaction to his deformity, and the reaction of his father. Peyton, always conscious of his club foot as a child, drew into himself and brooded over his father's coldness toward him.