The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 6 The Light That Never Fails
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good. (I Thes. 5, 21.)
EACH generation receives from the one preceding it the sum total of that predecessor's accumulated experience and achievement—its wisdom, its culture, and its forward-looking thoughts. Also, each generation passes on to the one coming after it, not only its own strength and wisdom but also its own weakness and folly and the false gods it has come to worship. This age has reached its present stature only by standing on the shoulders of the past. Nations, as well as individuals, are literally their brothers' keepers. Today is the warder of the gates of tomorrow, the guardian of tomorrow's civilization and its progress. Through pain and want and devastating trials, those going before have secured for us the heritage which we now enjoy. Is it not our obligation to conserve its priceless values that we may contribute them to the future? Standards and institutions that have been established through long years of sacrifice and suffering should not be lost to those coming after us because of our failure to appreciate and cherish these blessings.
The harvest of the years has been rich in soul values. Only yesterday men and nations were looking forward to international relationships of unity and power. Poets were beginning to sing of universal brotherhood and of a federation of the world. But, lo, today the smouldering fires of greed and hatred have broken forth again. Armed madness and ruthless destruction are abroad in the land. The treasures of the earth are being shattered, ancient creeds discarded, social standards tossed lightly aside, and the sacred documents of law and order are being torn to bits. It is as if unprincipled hands were plucking up century plants on the very eve of their blossoming. Tyranny is seeking to warp the souls of men to fit into a crooked mould of brute force. For a portion of humanity today, there is no promise of a harvest after a lifetime of service has been performed. The idealities, the visions, the dreams of men just and good, are being swept away. Many of the victims of this hopeless struggle already face only servitude and despair. The whole world is asking, "What next?"
IN times like these men begin to search for something with which to anchor their lives. They want something stable to tie to, sound principles on which they can depend. They want to be assured that there is purpose and direction back of the shifting scenes of life. They want to know that life is more than a drama of tragic despair.
Just as there have been prophets and teachers down the years who have recognized the truth and been willing to make every necessary sacrifice in order to establish it among men, so, also, there have ever been those who have stoned the prophets and set up their own judgment in defiance of law and order. Then, too, there have always been the vacillating ones, those who were not sure enough nor brave enough to defend their convictions, and who would wash their hands of all responsibility rather than decide for or against the truth. But no one has done more mischief, perhaps, in shaping the philosophies of men, than have the cheap charlatans who parade their theories under the guise of science. Confident in their own opinions, though not actually supported by scientific fact, they seek to undermine man's faith in the most fundamental truths of religion and life. Their philosophies are not hopeful nor forward-looking. And in the end, they often find themselves dissatisfied with the very doctrines they have originated. They destroy the ladder under their own feet and then cry out that life is a mockery.
Be wary of those who publish a doctrine of defeat. Be slow to accept any melancholy philosophy that takes hope out of the heart of man; any sorry preachment that belittles the soul and looks toward chaos and utter despair as the ultimate outcome of all our days. Such beliefs will not withstand the light of truth.
FOR nearly two thousand years now men have been stumbling along trying to find something better than the Gospel of the Master. And what has it profited them? The longer they search, the farther they get from the goal. They have hoped to guide humanity to a better way, but their torch is dim and flickering and threatens to be extinguished by each new revelation of truth. Their poor, misguided efforts have brought the world to a sorry crisis.
But the outlook is by no means hopeless. So long as one righteous nation stands, there is assurance that the treasures of the ages shall be held inviolate, and that truth shall not perish from the earth. The things that make men decent and self-respecting must be held in trust by the free men of the earth, for generations yet unborn. There must not be a blacking out of these high values because of indifference.
There is a tendency today to treat serious matters with a light flippancy. The wisdom of the world is being phrased in a pun and laughed off. The most profound thoughts of the wisest teachers of the past are being caricatured in cheap jokes. If we permit shoddy pretence to undermine the fundamentals of the present, are we not defeating the purpose of the future?
The harvest of the years has fallen onto the threshing floor of our own time. The truth that is being winnowed from the chaff is in our keeping. In passing it on to the next generation, are we going to permit it to lose any of its vitality or beauty because of our lack of vision, our failure to interpret truly, or our cowardice in expressing it? Unless we are attuned to truth, how can we recognize real values? If some of the rulers of the earth had not wantonly thrown away the key to happiness, vast armed forces would not now be walking in the shamble of death and destruction.
Truth is as old as time. It is a precious and enduring gift of Divinity to man. Though it is a gift, man may possess it only through earnest desire and vigilant search. Having found it, he must cherish it and use it if he would not lose it. The Master came to bring the true pattern of life to mankind. It was so precious that He was willing to die for it. In its long journey down the years it has not lost any of its worth or beauty. Its guiding light reaches out across the world. By following that light, men may walk out of the narrow streets of chaos and despair onto the broad highway of law and order, of good fellowship, and of brotherly love. The Gospel is for every nation, kindred, tongue and people. A universal acceptance of its truths will bring a logical solution to all the problems of life, for it is the key to eternal peace and joy and progress. It brings assurance and comfort and forward-looking hope. It is radiant with the light of truth, the light that never fails.
Did not the Master say: "I am the light of the world... I am the way, the truth, and the life.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.... Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you."

"WHAT means this glory round our feet," The Magi mused, "more bright than morn?" And voices chanted clear and sweet, "Today the Prince of Peace is born!" —James Russell Lowell.

HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
DECEMBER—For fullness of delight, walk through the "Land of Make Believe" at Christmas time, holding the hand of a little child.
PRINCESS ELIZABETH, 14 years old and heir to the British throne, broadcast a message of courage to the children of the world. She said, "When peace comes, remember it will be for us children of today to make the world of tomorrow a better and happier place." Brave words from a little girl in exile.
HATTIE W. CARAWAY, Senator from Arkansas, will be joined in the next Congress by seven other women legislators—Senator Margaret Smith of Maine and representatives Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Caroline O'Day of New York, Jessie Sumner of Illinois, Jeanette Rankin of Montana, Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts, and Frances Bolton of Ohio.
CAROLINE RUUTZ-REES of Connecticut recently celebrated her 50th anniversary as founder and headmistress of Rosemary Hall, an expensive and exclusive school for girls. The college is unique in many particulars. The students call each other (manlike) by last names, wear uniforms, and engage in sports and athletics, as well as light accomplishments and classical instruction.
DOROTHY ARZNER, Hollywood's only woman film director, began her career as a script stenographer.
NAZIMOVA, one of the stage's greatest stars, has returned to the screen after an absence of 15 years as the heroine in Ethel Vance's intriguing story "Escape."
JOAN CRAWFORD, noted star, engages in relief work for the poor, especially providing medical attention.
MRS. WARREN CREASY for 13 years has been a fine look-out in the forests of Pennsylvania. She spends her days in a tower on a high mountain to notify the rangers if she spots a blaze.
HESTER SIMS SMITH, 82, devoted mother and Relief Society worker, was one of the first women workers in the Deseret News publishing house. We also note with sorrow the recent passing of Mary Ann Burt, 91, an heroic and courageous woman, Luthilla Pratt Kimball, 85, all worthy and estimable mothers.
KATHERINE FOUGERA'S "With Custer's Cavalry," Rebecca Yancey William's "The Vanishing Virginian," Inglis Fletcher's "Raleigh's Eden," and "Mr. And Mrs. Cugat," by Isabel Scott Rosick, are among the new books by women this fall.
HANNAH M. ALDRICH, 100 years old, Anna H. Vincent, 100, Mary Ann Brockbank, 97, Ann C. Miln, 92, and Sarah E. Connell, all Utah pioneers, received honor and homage recently on the occasion of their respective birthdays.
GRETA GARBO has taken out first papers for American citizenship; while every month notables from foreign shores are arriving in America and many, like Garbo, are applying for citizenship.

 
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. XXVII DECEMBER, 1940 No. 12

EDITORIAL
Peace
AT the Christmas season our attention is reverently turned toward Him who was born amid the humblest of circumstances, in an improvised camp in the City of David?Jesus the Christ, the Only Begotten of the Eternal Father in the flesh. For generations men have listened to the sweet, simple, brief account of His birth, and gratitude has filled their hearts and hope burned anew within them.
The simple scriptural record tells us that shepherds were in the field "keeping watch over their flock by night.
"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them and the glory of the Lord shone round about them; and they were sore afraid.
"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people.
"For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.
"And this shall be a sign unto you: You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God, and saying,
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:8-14).
This message of peace and good will toward men is the thing which has illuminated the Christmas season for 2000 years. And it is for this that we should take Christmas to our hearts with love and rejoicing.
This year the Master's message of peace must penetrate the hearts of men through the noise of bursting bombs, the din of marching feet, the hate and bitterness of selfish and Godless men. But its penetrating power is great. Though for 2,000 years there have been those who would crush it to earth, it rises again and again, touching the hearts of the righteous and leavening the wickedness of the world.
This Christmas Day the rancor and hate of men may set the cannons roaring and the bombs bursting, but the message of the Master will not be silenced. Penetrating the noise, confusion, and bitterness, it will spring up in the hearts of righteous men and women everywhere bringing comfort and peace, diminishing hate and tempering evil.
The peace which the message of the Master brings to mankind is the only enduring peace; it is a peace which the forces of evil cannot destroy. It is an inner peace, an inner state of tranquility. It is freedom from fear, agitating passions, discordant and conflicting emotions. It is the peace referred to by the ancient prophet, Isaiah, when he said: "And the work of righteousness shall be peace and the effect of righteousness, quietness and assurance forever." (Isaiah, 32:17)
It is a peace which is available to everyone if he will but open his heart and receive it. The Savior has told us: "And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass; but the end is not yet."
Latter-day Saints, whose testimonies are sufficiently strong, know peace. Whether they live in a land where only the shocking tales of death and disaster reach them or in a land where green fields and mighty cities are laid waste by the despoilment of war, they have at their command a knowledge and a spiritual strength which gives them an inner peace that transcends the most powerful destructive forces.
Those who have within their hearts a testimony of the divinity of the Christ are reminded at this Christmas season of their responsibility to those children of the Father who have not seen the light, even to those who have forgotten that they are children of the Father and who disregard His message and would set at naught His works.
"Peace on earth, good will toward men" is the Christmas message. But who shall be the peacemakers? They must be those who bear the message of the Prince of Peace.

Elder George D. Pyper
ON NOVEMBER 21, a large circle of admiring friends and relatives paid tribute to Elder George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, at a public reception held at the Lion House Social Center in honor of his eightieth birthday. Endowed with unusual spiritual and mental vigor, gifted above the average, Elder Pyper's life has been characterized by outstanding service to his Church and community. The large number of Church and civic leaders, friends and relatives attending the reception gave evidence of the high regard and general esteem felt for the venerable Churchman. Members of the Relief Society General Board joined the group in extending birthday felicitations. Elder Pyper is well known to Relief Society women, having endeared himself to them through the pages of his book, The Romance of An Old Playhouse, which was one of the books studied in the 1937-38 Literature course. At that time, Elder Pyper graciously responded to many invitations to visit stakes and wards, interpreting for them the Latter-day Saint culture as expressed in a love of drama and in the erection of a "Cathedral in the Desert" (the Salt Lake Theatre). His long and intimate association with the theatre is unique. The Relief Society General Board expresses its appreciation to Elder Pyper for his contributions to our organization and extends best wishes for a continuance of health and vitality to perform the many tasks for which he is so well qualified.
EXCERPTS FROM "BIOGRAPHY AND FAMILY RECORD OF LORENZO SNOW" By Eliza R. Snow Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"It is a noticeable feature in those who cherish a spirit of apostasy from the light of the Gospel, that they adopt the doctrine of universalism and think none too wicked for a complete and unconditional salvation." (Page 31)
"Early in the spring of 1840, I was appointed to a mission in England. I here record a circumstance which occurred a short time previous?one which has been riveted on my memory never to be erased, so extraordinary was the manifestation. At the time, I was at the house of Elder H. G. Sherwood; he was endeavoring to explain the parable of our Savior, when speaking of the husbandman who hired servants and sent them forth at different hours of the day to labor in his vineyard.
"While attentively listening to his explanation, the Spirit of the Lord rested mightily upon me?the eyes of my understanding were opened, and I saw as clear as the sun at noonday, with wonder and astonishment, the pathway of God and man. I formed the following couplet which expresses the revelation, as it was shown me, and explains Father Smith's dark saying to me at a blessing meeting in the Kirtland Temple, prior to my baptism, as previously mentioned in my first interview with the Patriarch.
As man now is, God once was; As God now is, man may be.
"I felt this to be a sacred communication, which I related to no one except my sister, Eliza, until I reached England, when in a confidential, private conversation with President Brigham Young, in Manchester, I related to him this extraordinary manifestation." (Pages 46-47)
(Traveling in France in 1852.) "In passing over the country, and searching the mind of the Spirit in reference to its inhabitants, my heart is pained in contemplating the dark, dreary and bloody fate and scourge that await this nation." (Page 202)
(While opening the Italian mission in 1850.) "Our course is often dark and difficult; but I believe that, however slow it may be for a while, it will ultimately brighten with complete success. Popery, ignorance, and superstition form a threefold barrier to our efforts. Strange customs, laws and languages surround us on every side. In a word, we feel that we are in Italy?the polluted fountain which has overspread the earth with her defiling waters." (Page 135)
"Let me say to the brethren... That the Priesthood was bestowed upon you, as upon the Son of God, for no other purpose than that through sacrifice you might be proven, that, peradventure at the last day, you might stand approved before the Lord." (Page 376)
"I would say, let this motto be that of every Elder in Israel, and of every person worthy to be called Saint: Fear not?never stand still?move on." (Page 402)
(1872) "Our mission is to the world, and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay foundations for their temporal salvation. Our object is as much for the temporal as for the spiritual salvation of the people. The time is approaching when the nations will be broken up, on account of their wickedness. The Latter-day Saints are not going to war against them?they will destroy themselves with their immorality and abominations. They will quarrel and contend one with another, state with state, and nation with nation, until they are broken up; and thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands will, undoubtedly, come for protection at the hands of the servants of God, as much so as in the days of Joseph of Egypt, when he was called upon to devise a plan for the salvation of the house of Israel. We have received revelations, and, accordingly, we are here in these mountain vales, and we are going to stay. We shall cultivate our farms. And lay a foundation for a time when the nations shall be broken up. Multitudes will then flee to these valleys of the mountains for safety, and we shall extend protection to them. You may say, 'Shall you require them to be baptized and become Latter-day Saints?' Not by any means." (Page 346)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 6 The Lord's Tenth?Lorenzo Snow (Tuesday, March 4, 1941)
"And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord." (Doctrine and Covenants 119:4)
LORENZO SNOW, as a young man, entered Oberlin College at Oberlin, Ohio, which was then an orthodox Presbyterian institution. Although of a religious frame of mind, he was not impressed by the sectarianism of the college environment. During these college years, he wrote, "If there is nothing better than is to be found here in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions."
HIS CONVERSION
During his period at college, his beloved sister and confidante, Eliza Roxey Snow, had embraced "Mormonism" and moved to Kirtland. Lorenzo desired to study Hebrew; and as there was then at Kirtland a capable Hebrew scholar teaching this language to some of the brethren, he went there and enrolled in the Hebrew school. The religion of his associates did not interest him at first, but shortly afterwards, due to contacts with the Prophet and other leading brethren, he was baptized in June, 1836, being then in his twenty-third year. From this time onward until his death, he was identified as one of the vanguard of the Builders of the Kingdom of God on earth.
PUBLIC AND ECCLESIASTICAL SERVICE
In addition to several missions within the United States, he served an extended mission in Great Britain, assisted in the rededication of Palestine, visited Hawaii, opened the missionary work in Italy, and planned for its introduction in Switzerland, Malta, British India, Russia, Austria, and South America. For twenty-nine years, he was a member of the legislative assembly of Utah and was president of its council for ten years. His influence in the establishment and development of industries and cooperative ventures in Utah settlements is monumental.
THEOLOGICAL TEACHING
A consideration of Lorenzo Snow would not be complete without reference to a statement made by him, but which has been variously attributed to almost all of the early Church leaders. While on his mission to England (1840-1843), he formulated the expression, "As man now is, God once was; as God now is, man may be," and wrote this statement in a letter to his sister, Eliza R. Snow, at Nauvoo. Later it became a current saying among the Latter-day Saints. While the credit for creating this meaningful couplet belongs to Lorenzo Snow, the doctrinal teaching upon which it was based had its origin in the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
TRAINING IN PRACTICAL LEADERSHIP
In 1847, a year and a half before he was called to be an apostle, he was placed in charge of Mt. Pisgah, one of the temporary settlements of the scattered Saints in Iowa. Poverty and sickness were rampant in the camp. He manifested great ability as an organizer by sending some of the brethren to neighboring non-Mormon settlements to secure work, the payment for their services to be made in food. Others were placed at work manufacturing furniture, churns, barrels, etc., that could be sold to the permanent settlers of the surrounding country. Those capable of making and repairing wagons were set to these tasks, in preparation for the intended journey to the West. In addition, he arranged to keep the morale of the community healthful by fostering recreational and religious activities.
In 1853, Lorenzo Snow was called to settle at Brigham City, which place he considered his home for the following forty years. Here he became the moving power in the organization and direction of the Brigham City Mercantile and Manufacturing Association ? an industrial, agricultural cooperative experiment. The association engaged in merchandising, operated a tannery, a shoe manufacturing establishment, harness and saddle shops, a woolen mill, a cotton factory with a cotton farm in the southern part of the state to supply the raw materials, a dairy, butcher shops, flour mills, a hat factory, etc. The association also owned cattle and sheep. Altogether, there were about forty industrial branches successfully operating during a nine-year period. The products from the experiment during the year 1875 were valued at $260,000.
AS PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH
When Lorenzo Snow became President of the Church in October, 1898, he made a statement that was characteristic of his retiring nature. "I do not want this administration to be known as Lorenzo Snow's administration," he said, "but as God's, in and through Lorenzo Snow." With the conviction that he was but the instrument in the hands of the Almighty, he set about to deal with the various problems that were confronting the Church. The most pressing of these was that of Church finances. Due to the escheatment of Church property during the anti-polygamy conflict and various industrial developments which the Church had undertaken for the temporal benefit of the Saints and their communities, the Church was heavily in debt. President Snow now commenced to utilize the wide experience he had gained in temporal affairs. By issuing $1,000,000 in short-term bonds, all of which were purchased locally, he was able to meet the most pressing obligations.
REVIVAL OF THE PRINCIPLE OF TITHING
While at St. George, Utah, in the spring of 1899, he received a revelation that the Saints must repent of their indifference to the law of tithing and commence to observe it more faithfully, or they would find that many of their blessings would be withdrawn. During the decades preceding this event, there had been a growing laxity in the observance of this practice. Its revival was essential for the temporal and spiritual welfare of both the people and the Church.
As President Snow journeyed northward, he preached the law of tithing at every stopping place, and the remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. The Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations were convened in their annual conference when President Snow reached Salt Lake City. He availed himself of the opportunity, when addressing the officers' meeting of the Young Men's organization on May 30, to appeal to them for their support in sustaining the law of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse, the following resolution was presented to the representatives of nearly every stake in the Church and unanimously adopted by them:
"Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise."
This ready response of the representatives of the youth of the Church to his appeal to support the tithe system visibly affected the aged president. Arising again, he said: "Brethren, the God of our Fathers bless you. Every man who is here, who has made this promise, will be saved in the Celestial Kingdom. God bless you. Amen."
On July 2 of that year, a special fast meeting and solemn assembly was held in the Salt Lake Temple, at which 623 persons were present, representing every ward and stake in the Church. The meeting had been called by President Snow to present the matter of tithing observance for their consideration. The group unanimously accepted the resolution formerly adopted by the Y. M. M. I. A. Officers.
The result of this new emphasis upon an old principle was that everywhere in the Church people became "tithing-conscious" and commenced returning to the Lord that which was justly His. This revival of tithing as a Church-wide practice started the Church on the road toward economic emancipation and enabled the Church to expand its great missionary,
ecclesiastical, educational, and social program, which so characterized it in the twentieth century. President Snow did not live to see the Church reap all of the benefits of this renewed interest in tithing, as he died on October 10, 1901, but he saw the first fruits of his divinely inspired reformation and died confident that neither political nor economic obstacles henceforth could crush the Church of God. 844 ESTIMATE OF HIS ADMINISTRATION B. H. Roberts evaluates his presidency as follows: "... Had he come to his position of chief leadership of the Church earlier in life, there is no question but that his administration would have been far more notable than it was under the limitations of three years, and under the handicap of extreme old age. But even as it was, in his achievements as the prophet leader of modern Israel... He set the Church in the way of being delivered from the financial straits into which it had fallen; and had given an impetus to the mission and dignity of the priesthood." Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What factors do you think led to the cessation of such cooperative movements as that at Brigham City when they appeared to be beneficial for the participants? (See Essentials of Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, pp. 543-544.) 2. What do you suppose caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 3. Why is it essential that the Saints be 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940

 constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 4. What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a result of President Snow's stimulation of tithepaying? Topics for Study and Special Reports 1. Relate Lorenzo Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church, as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 383-384.); 2. Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church. (See Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. Vl, pp. 376-380.) References John Henry Evans, Joseph Smith?An American Prophet, pp. 244-245. Improvement Era, Vol. II, p. 795. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 217-218; Vol. VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. Eliza R. And Lorenzo Snow, The Palestine Tourist. Norte: The following, copied from the private journal of Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, dated February 8, 1886, is of interest in connection with the account of the miraculous escape of President Wilford Woodruff from the hands of his enemies, referred to in Lesson 5, "Faith?A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff, the Great Evangelist," published in the November Magazine, page 783: "Today (Feb. 8) about twenty deputy marshalls searched the Gardo House, Church offices, Tithing Office and Historian's Office. In the latter place Wilford Woodruff and Erastus Snow were in great danger, but we succeeded in getting Brother Woodruft off by strategy and Erastus Snow likewise got away from the marshalls. Brother Woodruff walked across the street with me unnoticed." Usiting Seacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 6 Spiritual Preparation of the Home (Tuesday, March 4, 1941) "Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God." (I Corinthians 2:12) THE spirit of the home is the important and lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical aspects are forgotten. The spiritual preparation of the home for honoring the Priesthood depends largely upon the attitudes which are cultivated there and which are unconsciously absorbed by the children. An attitude of cooperation and helpfulness toward the ward bishop and other Church officers, rather than one of criticism, creates confidence and respect for them in the minds of children. The ward teachers visit homes of Church members by authority of the Priesthood, and the spirit with which they are received and the honor shown them will also have its effect on the members of the family. An absence of complaint on the part of the mother because of Priesthood activities which take the father away from home, and an attitude of encouragement to him in the performance of his duties, cannot fail to impress the children with the importance of the Priesthood. The ordination of a boy to the Aaronic Priesthood can be made a special event in the home. There could be a program of stories and incidents which show the blessings and powers of this Priesthood, as well as a history of its restoration in our time. Prayer, both family and individual, is a spiritual power in any home. Home Discussion Helps "It is the spirit which leads us to the performance of our duties." 'Without the spirit of the Gospel, we have only the form, which is without real power for good. -Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 6 Food for the Older Woman (Tuesday, March 11, 1941) HE wisest time to make plans for the diet of the older woman is during the years before she becomes an older woman. Doctors who specialize in diseases of the older age-groups claim that many 846 disturbances of later life might have been prevented through better food selection during the earlier adult years. Much of the treatment for the ailments of older people is dietary, with special emphasis on the protective foods. Fruits, vegetables, and milk are used extensively. Diet will neither cure nor prevent all disorders, although many of them do come from a lifetime of poor food habits. An adequate food supply served on a regular meal schedule is just as important in maintaining the body in a state of good health as one grows older as it was in producing a healthy body during childhood. The older woman is less active, her body processes slow down, and she needs fewer calories than during her younger adult years. This means cutting down on starches, sugars, and fats. She still has the same need for minerals, vitamins and proteins as when she was more active. Because so much attention has been centered on child nutrition during the recent past, many adults have taken the attitude that childhood is the only time when adequate nuttition is important, and consequently are extremely careless with their own food selection. Women who live alone are the greatest offenders against good nutrition for themselves. Frequent comments are, "Oh, that doesn't apply to me. My family is grown. I live alone. It doesn't matter what I eat.