Besides, I lost all my teeth years ago." A few years of nutritional neglect may result in constipation, chronic indigestion, stomach ulcers, colitis and various other ailments of the digestive tract. Overweight is a common result of wrong diet. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940

 Overweight lowers life expectancy. Insurance companies advocate that the normal weight of a person at age thirty is the ideal weight for them when older. Some people store fat more easily as they grow older. When the food intake exceeds the daily energy demands, the surplus is stored as body fat. This is the first principle to consider in weight control, whether the need is for gaining, reducing, or maintaining weight as it is. Moderate vitamin and mineral deficiency can affect health adversely, not only during childhood but also as the years progress. Recent research points to a higher Vitamin C need as age advances. Many vague symptoms of ill health are probably due to C deficiency. People who have artificial teeth frequently suffer from sore gums and sore mouth tissue underneath their plates. Diets high in Vitamin C help to correct this condition. Adults need liberal supplies of Vitamin B for the health of the digestive tract. As the years advance and the caloric intake is lowered to adjust to lowered physical activity, it is especially important to keep the Vitamin B* supply at a high level. Research studies show a need for increased use of iron foods in the diet of women. One report suggests that women up to the time of the menopause require about four times as much iron as do men. Surveys of women's diets show them to be getting much less iron than do men. The average woman eats about 800 fewer calories than does the average man. On the same type of diet, women would have less iron. Women use less meat. The prevalence of hypo-chronic anemia among LESSON DEPARTMENT women can be attributed. To their lower iron intake. Anemia is a frequent accompaniment of the menopause period. Roentgenograms show extreme demineralization of the skeletons in many older persons. Three probable explanations are given in the Journal of the American Medical Association for February 4, 1939: 1, An inadequate amount of calcium in the diet of the average adult. 2. The diet of some adults contains too little Vitamin D to make the calcium that is in the food effectively available. 3. As the person grows older, his ability to absorb minerals from the intestinal tract becomes less. This may be due to the previously mentioned deficiency of Vitamin D in the diet. Eggs and meat are high in iron as well as protein. Pork muscle is a good source of Vitamin B. CODDLED EGGS Anyone can boil an egg, but a good cook never does. Boiling eggs makes them tough and leathery. The ideal way to cook eggs in the shell is to allow one quart of boiling water for the first egg and one cup for each additional egg. This large amount of water means greater heat penetration and more uniform cooking of the egg. Cover the kettle, and set it on the back of the stove where the water will not boil. Leave the eggs in until they reach the desired degree of doneness. From five to seven minutes of this process makes a desirable soft-cooked egg. Thirty to forty minutes makes a hard-cooked egg.