Make Way for Christmas Barbara Badger Burnett
THE first snow on the foothills should awaken in all of us the first bit of Christmas Spirit and remind us that this happy day of good cheer will soon be here. Year after year most of us go on letting Christmas sneak upon us and find us just about half ready for it. Then we vow that next year we will start our preparations earlier and thus enjoy the day more.
Christmas is the happiest day in the whole year for the children. It is an expected day when longed-for toys are found under glistening Christmas trees, and stockings left hanging by the fireplace are found stuffed. To Father, it is a day free from everyday worries, a day in which he can relax and play with the children's toys, and snooze if he wants to; but for most mothers, it is a day of hard work in hot kitchens, basting the turkey, preparing vegetables, scraping celery, stirring pudding sauce, kneading down rolls and doing dozens of other jobs required in preparation for the Christmas dinner.
But it wouldn't be Christmas without the family gathered around a brightly decorated table laden with all that makes the Christmas feast symbolical of good cheer and hospitality. Wise mothers and cooks will begin the preparation of their Christmas dinner now. With careful planning and thought, most of the dinner can be prepared before Christmas day, giving Mother more time to enjoy the day with the rest of the family.
The first thing to do is to decide upon the menu. Turkey is traditional, so it is a good idea to start with that. Turkey calls for cranberries in some form. There must be mashed potatoes for the giblet gravy, celery, two vegetables, a cocktail or appetizer, salad, if desired, bread of some form, and a dessert, to complete a simple Christmas feast. Color schemes for special holidays, such as red and green for Christmas, help in deciding on what vegetables, salads, and desserts will be most attractive. During the holiday season, there are many red and green foods to choose from, as well as beautiful blooms and evergreens to dress up our tables. Keep the menu simple to eliminate last minute work and extra dishes.
An attractive menu and one easy to prepare consists of:
Stuffed Cinnamon Apple Salad Toasted Paprika Crackers Roast Turkey with Celery Stuffing Mashed Potatoes Giblet Gravy Buttered Green Peas Browned Parsnips Whole Cranberry Sauce Celery Hot Rolls Plum Pudding Vanilla Dip Hard Sauce
STUFFED cinnamon apple salad is ideal to begin a Christmas dinner. It is a cocktail salad, and its red and green color make the table gay. It is simple to prepare, and should be made ready the day before and set aside in the ice box ready to be slipped onto the salad plates just before serving. To make this salad, select medium-sized apples (Jonathans are preferred), peel, core and cook slowly in a syrup flavored with cinnamon candies. It may be necessary to add a few drops of red coloring. It is best to cook the apples in just enough syrup to half cover them, and turn several times during the cooking. Cool the apples and fill with Philadelphia Cream cheese. In the top, insert a small red candle to be lighted when served. Tuck the apples away in the ice box and forget them until time to place on the table. While you are preparing the salad, wash and separate the lettuce and put it out of the way. To serve with this salad, spread any kind of plain crackers with butter, sprinkle with paprika, put a slice of cherry in the center and toast lightly in the oven. Stack them loosely on a plate until served.
Try stuffing your turkey this year with celery dressing. To your favorite dressing recipe add two cups of finely-diced celery. Be sure to have your turkey ready to stuff and pop into the oven early. The dressing will be lighter if it is not allowed to stand in the turkey but is put into it when the turkey is ready to be put into the oven. It is best not to add the onion to the dressing until ready to use. The onion should be chopped (grinding is apt to make it bitter).
Parsnips were chosen as one vegetable on this menu because they can be cooked beforehand and browned in a few minutes before serving. If you can obtain fresh, frozen peas they will cook in twelve minutes; or canned peas may be warmed up and seasoned. In making whole cranberry sauce, bring the cranberries and water to the boiling point and add a pinch of soda before adding the sugar. The soda softens the skins, lessens the cooking time, and helps to keep the berries whole.
Hot rolls are no trouble today. Ice-box rolls can be made several days in advance. When it comes to desserts for a Christmas dinner, plum pudding has been traditional ever since Mrs. Cratchet carried her steaming Christmas pudding into her happy family. These puddings used to be made rich with suet and heavy with fruit. They were anything but the best ending for a big dinner. Today, we serve plum puddings as light and digestible as a piece of cake. Try this recipe. It can be made a week before Christmas, but must be kept in a cool place:
1 cup whole wheat bread crumbs 1 cup whole wheat flour ½ cup butter 2 cup brown sugar ½ cup blanched almonds 1 cup seedless raisins 1 cup maraschino cherries 1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon salt 1 cup milk
Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Cream the butter and sugar and add to the bread crumbs. Sift in the dry ingredients and add fruits and nuts. Fill greased pudding mold two-thirds full and steam two hours. Heat again before serving, and do serve this pudding at the table garnished with a sprig of holly on the top. For variation this year, and also to carry out a red and green color scheme, add bits of red and green cherries to your hard sauce.
To sum up the preparation of this dinner, the rolls, cranberry sauce, the pudding, and hard sauce may be prepared several days before Christmas. The day before Christmas make the salad, prepare the lettuce and crackers, make ready the turkey, crumb the bread for the dressing and cook the giblets. Clean the celery and cook the parsnips. The potatoes can be peeled and covered with cold water. Get the linen, silver and dishes ready. On Christmas day, stuff and roast the turkey, warm up the pudding and make the dip. Cook the potatoes and the peas, brown the parsnips, bake the rolls, make the gravy and set the table.
THE Christmas table can be beautifully and inexpensively decorated. Use a white cloth. For a centerpiece, which is the most important part of the table decoration, select 19 large red apples, cut a small hole in the top of each to insert a small, thin, red candle. Arrange 7 apples in a ring on a large, round, silver plate, with one more in the center. On top of these, stack 5 apples with one more in the center. On top of these stack a third layer of three with one in the center, and finish with one on top. Insert a long, thin, red candle in each hole that is showing, and bank the bottom with branches of evergreen. The salad with a small, red candle and green lettuce will match the centerpiece. For place cards use white dinner cards with a holly sticker in the corner. The Spirit of Christmas reaches its height in the dinner. Let it be happy, full of good cheer, and end with a MERRY CHRISTMAS for all.