A hard-cooked egg can be more easily removed from the shell if the egg is removed from the water, the shell cracked, and the egg returned to the water about two minutes. If hard-cooked eggs are to be kept for future use, put them into cold water until the eggs are cold. This helps to prevent the formation of a dark green 847 substance where the yolk and white of the egg come together. A supply of hard-cooked eggs may be prepared at one time and kept in the refrigerator for future use. CREAMED EGGS Two cups medium white sauce, four hard-cooked eggs. Slice eggs into sauce and serve on toast. JONQUIL SAUCE 6 hard-cooked eggs, diced 1 cup cream or whole milk 1 tablespoon butter 1/8 teaspoon paprika 4 tablespoons finely-chopped parsley Place the ingredients in top of double boiler, let cook five to ten minutes. Remove from fire, add parsley and pour hot over cauliflower, broccoli, asparagus, peas, or other vegetable. CUSTARD SAUCE 11/2 cups scalded milk 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla Yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs Beat eggs slightly. Add sugar and salt. Stir constantly while adding gradually the hot milk. Cook over low heat or in double boiler until mixture thickens. Cool and add vanilla. Serve over gelatin puddings or squares of gingerbread or chocolate cake. STUFFED RIB PORK CHOPS WITH APPLES 6 rib pork chops, 11/2 inches thick 1 cup fine dry bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped celery 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon minced onion 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon savory seasoning Dash of pepper 1/4 teaspoon celery seed 3 tart red apples For the stuffing, cook the celery, onion, and parsley in butter for a few minutes, add the bread crumbs and seasonings, and stir until well mixed. Wipe the chops with a damp cloth. Cut a pocket in each chop. Sprinkle the chops with salt and pepper and rub lightly with flour. Sear the 848 chops in a heavy, hot skillet, turning the fat edges down at first and then browning both sides. Then fill each chop with stuffing and skewer the edges together with toothpicks. Lay the stuffed chops on a rack in a baking dish or pan with cover. On the top of each, place, cut side down, one-half of apple which has been cored but not pared. Cover closely and bake in a moderate oven (350? to 375? F.) for about 45 minutes, or until the meat is tender. Lift the chops and apples together from the baking dish onto a hot platter and remove 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940

 the toothpick skewers. Garnish with parsley and serve at once. References U. S. D. A. Yearbook, "Human Nutrition," Chapters on minerals and vitamins. Foundations of Nutrition, Rose, Chapters on "Diets for Adults" and "Vitamins and Minerals." Feeding the Family, Rose (4th Edition), Chapters on "Food for the Adult Woman" and "Food After Fifty." Foods Rich in Vitamins, Bureau of Home Economics U. S. D. A. S ob iterature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 6 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, March 18, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. Brief review 2. Some phases of the novel not previously considered 3. A few of the lessons that may be drawn from this novel 4. Significant quotations BRIEF REVIEW The last lesson dealt chiefly with characters in the novel and methods used by writers in characterization. A few of the historical characters were considered.