How To Glorify Christmas Gifts Lucile Wallace Wolf
TO RECEIVE a gift nicely wrapped is a compliment. It would take a large book to show all the lovely packages that folks make at Christmas. You can make yours more interesting if you get acquainted with a few basic tricks in handling materials, and there is practically no limit to the materials you can use in making up a package to suit the individual and to add personality to your gift.
Rules for Simple Box Wrapping
To wrap a box of any size with plain, transparent cellophane or decorated paper, or just plain tissue, make sure your sheet of material is large enough to go around the box with an overlap for sealing, and wide enough to cover the ends. When the sheet is cut, place box upside down in the center of the sheet, fold over ends and seal the seam on the bottom with "Scotch Tape." Fold in the ends smoothly.
An Easy Way to Tie Ribbon Bows
In tying a cellophane or paper ribbon bow for your gift package, first tie the ribbon around the package in any way that pleases your particular fancy, leaving two loose ends at the knot. To make the bow, form a loop of ribbon, keeping right side up, and pinch together at the point where the knot would come. For the second loop, bring the ribbon around in the opposite direction and pinch again (you can make as many loops as desired to form a rosette), then just place the bow on the package at the knot and tie it securely with the two loose ends. This can then be cut, left in the uncut loops, or cut and curled with a scissor edge, pulling from the knot and toward the end of the material or ribbon.
There Is A Knack to Making "Glassips" Pompoms
Hold the "Glassips" in one hand with the ends even and wind cotton-covered wire twice around the center. Then pull hard on the wire, fasten with a twist, and knot. The tightening wire spreads the "Glassips" in a pompom effect. Cut off the ends of the wire, leaving long enough ends to attach to a package. These are very effective.
One very interesting way to individualize a package is to use letters and numbers for decorating with monograms, names and dates. These can be purchased for 10 cents a package and are very interesting.
If you do not use a box, wrap your article, after it is carefully folded, just as you wrap a box. In the illustration of a package not in a box, a set of seven tea towels was wrapped with plain tissue paper, tied with ribbon, and decorated with a sprig of sagebrush. So many things can be used as decorations, such as a sprig of juniper, Oregon grapes, Rose apples, holly, pine cones, or little handmade decorations that you have a special knack for making. These always add charm and interest. Use care in color combinations.
Be careful, and you will be repaid for the effort. (Merry Christmas and beautiful packages! ) ~ 2 Steps in Simple Box Wrapping Attractive "Glassips" pompoms can be Charm is added to the gift of a bottle made by following the steps illustrated of perfume or other similarly-shaped are above. Article when wrapped as illustrated above. The above steps are followed in making Packages are interesting when decorative bows. Ed with monograms, names and dates. Variety in decorative bows is accomplished by leaving loops uncut, by cutting loops, or by cutting and curling with scissor edge. Christmas Giving Dorothy L. Watkiss Society Editor, Deseret News ¢6¢ 7 T is not so much in the gifts | we give, as it is in the grace of giving." This thought seemed to be the predominant sentiment of the four people whose expressed views on Christmas giving furnished the material for this article. President Grant, whose boundless generosity is one of his outstanding characteristics, gives happiness and joy to many hundreds of people each Christmas, with his lavish distribution of books of lasting worth. He considers a good book the ideal gift for people of all ages, and each Christmas every member of his family and many of his innumerable friends are remembered with a carefully-selected book. President Grant is a firm believer in the sentiment expressed in the verse of Horace G. Whitney's poem: "What though the price be paltry and small, What though the cover be old and thin, What though there be no cover at all, If worth and merit are written therein." He feels that it is much more desirable to remember a greater number of people with an inexpensive edition of a good book than to remember just a select few with a more costly volume. While he has undoubtedly given away well over a hundred thousand books, he has also brought lasting joy to many of his friends by his generous distribution of beautiful pictures. The true spirit of giving is manifest in his thoughtfulness in selecting gifts which incidentally give needed help to those from whom the gifts are purchased and at the same time bring happiness to those to whom they are presented, thereby bestowing dual benefits. President Grant is an ardent believer in the old maxim, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and his genuine joy in bestowing gifts to his relatives and countless friends each Christmas proves that he considers it a great privilege to bring happiness to so many people. The Heber J. Grant Library in Provo contains copies of the many books he has so generously distributed. On one occasion he bought the copyright of a splendid book, "The Power of Truth," written by William George Jordan. In this widespread distribution of worthwhile literature is expressed his great desire to share, with as many people as possible, the beautiful, stimulating and commendable thoughts and sentiments which he himself treasures so highly. His love of giving is not confined to his relatives and intimate friends, but needy persons of all classes come within his circle of beneficences, particularly at Christmas time. EMPHASIZING the thought that the cost of a gift was of secondary importance, Sister Annie Wells Cannon expressed the opinion that it was the good thoughts and wishes that accompanied the gift that really mattered. Like President Grant, she — felt that it was much more desirable to remember a greater number of people with relatively inexpensive gifts, than to give to a select few something more costly. Also endorsing President Grant's views, CHRISTMAS GIVING Sister Cannon feels that nothing is more lovely in the way of a gift than a book, and especially so for children. Nowadays, such a diversified assortment of books on innumerable subjects is available for the mature mind, and such a variety of children's books, all beautifully illustrated, that they undoubtedly solve the constantly recurring gift problem for many people. The wrapping of a gift is quite an important factor to Sister Cannon, and she takes great pride and joy in achieving this as artistically as possible. This definitely conveys an added gesture of esteem to those receiving remembrances. She also mentioned that since the days when the Wise Men brought their gifts to Jesus Christ in Bethlehem, this spirit of giving at Christmas has been a practical gesture of love and remembrance. In the words of Edmund Vance Cooke, this thought is also expressed: "It is not the weight of jewel or plate, Or the fondle of silk or fur, 'Tis the spirit in which the gift is rich, As the gifts of the Wise Ones were, And we are not told whose gift was gold, Or whose was the gift of myrrh." The main object of a gift is to bring happiness and enjoyment, and at this particular season of the year children should be the first to be remembered. With what supreme joy are we rewarded as we watch their amazed delight and thrilling gladness at the unexpected gifts. Sister Cannon said that she did not like the idea of inquiring of a person what they would like to have for a gift, as she felt the element of surprise was of major importance in the full enjoyment of the gift. Gifts for the home, when appro- 819 priate, are also very desirable, as they invariably bring pleasure to all who share them. These gifts of the lasting kind are a constant reminder of the love and thoughtfulness of the giver. SOME helpful suggestions were also contributed by Sister Donna Durrant Sorensen on this allimportant subject. She laid great stress on gifts of the luxury type, feeling that it was an excellent idea to select gifts that you yourself would be happy to receive. This rule is particularly good to follow when purchasing gifts for one's contemporaries. For example, a small quantity of an exceptionally pleasing perfume would be more acceptable than a larger quantity of an inferior quality. Likewise, a small piece of sterling silver or fine linen would be mote likely to bring lasting joy than larger gifts of more doubtful value. Sister Sorensen feels that the way of wrapping gifts is a splendid manner of expressing one's artistic abilities, and that the same principles of art that prevail in decorative schemes ate also applicable here. The wrapping should be in keeping with the gift and should enhance appreciation of it, but should not be too elaborate. For example, if the paper selected is particularly ornate, the material used for tying should be more conservative. Gifts at this time of the year may be either personal or for the home, depending entirely upon the circumstances of the recipient. For instance, personal gifts are in most cases more appropriate for children and older people, or for those who travel extensively, while gifts for the home make a more direct appeal to 820 those in the process of establishing a home, or actively maintaining one. Gifts of a lasting nature are usually more appreciated by this group and thus bring pleasure not only to the one receiving the gift but to the entire household. THE younger viewpoint, as expressed by Miss Elizabeth Hill, a student at the Brigham Young University and daughter of Dr. And Mrs. George R. Hill, finds the selecting of Christmas gifts a fascinating diversion. She also feels that the luxury type of gift—something that one would hesitate to purchase for oneself for practical reasons, but would be very thrilled and happy to possess—is eminently desirable and invariably receives greater appreciation. Miss Hill mentioned that as so many people are making a hobby of collecting certain articles, a contribution to this particular collection is sure to be much appreciated. The personal touch expressed in monogramming gifts is gteatly favored by Miss Hill, as she feels that the personalizing of gifts makes a special appeal to her college friends. For each member of her family, she always encloses a Christmas letter containing a poem of her own composition. This isa charming gesture 

 

 for those poetically inclined. She, too, feels that an attractively wrapped gift adds much to the pleasure of the receiver, and she takes particular pains in doing this wrapping in a unique and artistic manner. For children, particularly the younger ones, she feels that an assortment of smaller gifts is definitely more desirable than one larger one, as most children desire variety and are greatly thrilled by quantity. For those whom it is impossible to remember with a gift, Miss Hill feels that Christmas cards are a delightful medium of conveying one's good wishes and thoughts. As there is a decided trend at this time toward arts and crafts and a great revival of handwork of all types, it is a splendid idea for those who have leisure time to make their Christmas gifts themselves. If one is talented along a particular line, such as needlework of any kind, leather or metal work, painting or sketching, pleasing and acceptable gifts of practical value can be made. And nothing is more complimentary than a handmade gift. For those who enjoy cooking, homemade candy or cakes or other novel delicacies make excellent Christmas gifts. "At Christmas tide the open hand Scatters its bounty o'er sea and Jand." Dreams Are For Christmas Beatrice Rordame Parsons JON WAYNE came into the J kitchen, a frown hovering between his dark brows. He didn't like the buzz and excitement of the last few days. Everybody in the house was upset. His wife seemed a stranger, distraught, impatient, forever rushing about with great bundies in her arms. The children had been unusually trying. At this moment, Deck was speaking in a loud, excited tone. "Tomorrow! Christmas!" Deck was thirteen, a lanky kid with a stub nose and freckles. His hands and feet were too big, and as he took his seat at the breakfast table, his shoes made dark scars against the newly-waxed linoleum. It seemed to Jon that Deck's voice was louder than usual. "Thank goodness today's the last day of school. Hope Ole Martin doesn't give us an English assignment for the Christmas holidays. I've got a lot o' things to do." His father frowned. A lot of things! He could imagine. Deck always had a lot of things to do—so many things that he could not chop a little kindling or take out the ashes on ash day. Jon hated to admit it, even to himself, but his son was a trifler. His frown darkened as he thought of it, then disappeared a little as Madge came into the kitchen. "Hi, Maggie," cried Deck, and the smile that had decorated Madge's pretty face disappeared, and she appealed to her mother. "Make him quit saying that. He knows I hate it!" She touched her ~ newly-done hair with cool little fingers and tried to look aloof and grown up. Jon hid a smile behind his morning paper. Madge was eighteen, and still his baby. He couldn't imagine her grown up. But eying her from behind the paper, he had to admit that he didn't like what he saw— too much lipstick, too many curls, a petulant, impatient look about her small, red mouth. Suddenly, Jon dropped his paper and stared at his children. What had happened to them? Where were the smiling, happy babies he had once known, the babies who had climbed on his knees and begged for candy with kisses? He wondered if he hadn't dreamed it. These children weren't the same. They were hard, selfish little people, disrespectful to each other, and—he had to admit it—to their elders. Even as he thought, Madge leaned across the table and poured herself a glass of milk, entirely ignoring her father's glass. Jon's voice was crisp, disapproving. "In my day, Madge, children were taught to help their parents first. It was very tude of you...." He stopped. Madge wasn't listening. She had turned to her mother and was speaking eagerly. "Don't forget my Christmas present." She'd been harping on that same subject for weeks. She wanted a party frock, a pink one. She reiterated the fact loudly: "Pink, Mother!" Her mother, busy at the stove, nodded a little absent-mindedly, and said: "I must remember cranberries 822 and yams. The turkey is ready in the refrigerator, and.. Deck interrupted rudely. "T get that bike, remember. You said I could have it." He turned to Madge, and added: "I get my bike even if you don't get that silly dress." Like a small child, Madge put out her tongue. Deck guffawed rudely. Jon spoke indignantly. "In my day, Deck, children didn't interrupt their mother. And they didn't put out their tongues, Madge, when they were young ladies." His last words were drowned out by the spattering of the eggs, as Mrs. Wayne lifted them from the frying pan onto the hot platter. Jon found himself wondering, impatiently, if either of his offspring would have paid any attention, anyway. Eleanor sat down and poured herself a glass of milk, reaching across Deck's plate for the pitcher. Jon was loudly indignant. "If Christmas is going to change this house into a. Eleanor smiled and put an egg and a crisp slice of bacon on his plate. "Christmas is exciting, isn't it, Jon?" she asked, and her eyes were shining. "Christmas is in the heart, Jon. That's what makes it so wonderful." He looked at her in astonishment. Was this what she called the Christmas Spirit—Madge and Deck squabbling all through breakfast, forgetting to pass the milk, growling at each other over their presents? Bah! If this were Christmas, he'd take the Fourth of July! Eleanor didn't pay any attention to his surprised look. She was speaking again, still smilingly, but there mas angel in it.