Mrs. Santa Mary A. Nickerson ES, there really is a lady Santa Claus. No, she does not live at the North Pole, but in her modest little home near the Wasatch Mountains. This short, chubby Mrs. Santa is ae rd dolls with crepe-paper dresses, penny balloons, tempting red apples with marshmallow faces, and many other inexpensive gifts to gladden the hearts of tiny tots. The jingle of the old-fashioned sleigh bells, that hang "MRS. SANTA" DISTRIBUTES CHRISTMAS GIFTS wholly convincing dressed in her bright red suit with its white trimmings, and with the saucy little hood coming down to the upper tips of the white beard, and black, shining boots that afford her ample protection for wading through the snow and ice as she shoulders her bag and starts out on her round of home calls each Christmas Eve. Tucked away in the bag are penny all-day suckers transformed into from her shoulder, announces her approach—yet there is no sleigh (or automobile) at her command. She walks. Her visits take her to different parts of the city, and chiefly into the homes where she feels that "Santa" could give the most cheer—where there is an ill or a crippled child, a lonely woman, an elderly couple who might be "remembering" on Christmas Eve, or where sorrowing folk might be cheered by a comforting word. Then, too, Mrs. Santa has become a tradition in many families, and it would not be Christmas Eve without her brief visits.
To her neighbors and friends she is Mrs. Mary Bennett, a good neighbor, a true friend, and her husband's loyal helpmate. She is a busy housewife, for she is certain that a balanced diet for those four young college lads is quite as important in their lives as is the knowledge which they receive in the classrooms.
For many years Mrs. Bennett had dreamed of the day when she could know the joy of making others happy at Christmas. But the years rolled by, each one much the same as the last. Then, ten years ago, she decided that if she ever expected to do anything about it, now was the time to begin.
Little by little her hopes evolved into a plan—not an elaborate plan, such as she would like, but at least one that would enable her to bring smiles of happiness to the faces of small children. Although it was only a few days before the New Year, and there was yet ample time before the next Christmas, she decided to act upon her plans at once, lest she change her mind.
Hurrying to town, she purchased the cloth for her Santa Claus suit. As she cut, stitched, and fitted, other plans came into being. With the suit completed, she turned her attention to the bag and its contents. She resolved that each day, or each week, she would make some little gift to place in the bag. Out of the sewing box came bits of left-over materials which her deft fingers fashioned into adorable little front aprons for the wee lassies and comfy bibs for the babies. From small scraps of flowered lawn, white voile, and two-cents-a-yard lace, she created dainty hankies to delight many a small miss. Often the few extra pennies in her purse were spent for tiny, bright trinkets—a china doll, or quacking ducks and croaking frogs that sing the same tune when squeezed between the thumbs and fingers of little chaps who adore noise makers. A few old-fashioned net stockings were filled with candy, nuts, a few small picture books, and topped with an orange—these for the homes where the children might be disappointed on Christmas morning. Then when those last busy days before Christmas came again, they found her ready and waiting, with only the popcorn balls to make, wrap, and pack into her bag.
EACH year Mrs. Bennett goes through much the same joyous preparations and keen anticipations for the next Christmas. "I enjoy the Christmas spirit every day throughout the year," she remarks, "because I begin making my Christmas gifts in January."
Often Mrs. Bennett is requested to appear as the Santa Claus at various programs for the adults and for the aged, as well as for the children. Sometimes she makes eight or ten appearances during the week before Christmas, yet she has never accepted any recompense for her services. She has no desire to commercialize on her hobby of being a Santa, nor to act as a professional substitute.
For quite some time, the members of her family were not in accord with her Santa Claus activities. They could not understand why she enjoyed spending time and energy in the service of others. One son was especially concerned over her strenuous Christmas Eve trips, and tried to persuade her to discontinue them. This humble little lady would scarcely admit being a psychologist, but she cleverly planned to have that son substitute for her as a Santa Claus at a children's program. When he returned home, he said, "Mother, now I understand why you are determined to play 'Santa.' Nothing could be more inspiring than the happy faces of all those little boys and girls as they tell their wants to Santa Claus." Since then the independent little mother and grandmother goes merrily on her way, wishing one and all a "Merry Christmas." Not even family plans can interfere with her own Santa visits on Christmas Eve.
FOR many years, on her birthday anniversary, Mrs. Bennett's friends have called to wish her "many happy returns of the day." This year on that eventful day, July 31, sixty women attended a delightful surprise party given in her honor at the home of a friend. After refreshments had been served, Mrs. Bennett was puzzled by the strangely familiar ringing of sleigh bells, which proved to be her own "Santa" bells carried by the bearers of a large bag that was filled to the top with parcels. As the guest of honor unwrapped the parcels, she found several lovely personal gifts. But the parcels that were the most precious to her were those containing gifts for her "Santa" bag. There were balls of various colors and sizes; dolls, jump ropes, picture books, crayons and paint books; wee tin dishes and pastry sets; tops, marbles, modeling clay, and soap-bubble sets; tiny trucks, and many other gifts to please those youngsters who anxiously await the coming of Mrs. Santa. "Now, how ever can I wait for Christmas?" questioned Mrs. Bennett.
There is a slight catch in her voice, and her lovely brown eyes are moist, as she tells of her Santa visits. "I have seen much joy, and also sorrow, in my visits," Mrs. Bennett said, "and I have had many touching experiences." And one is very certain that those experiences are just as safe with Mrs. Santa as with a physician who has taken an oath to observe his code of ethics.
A cozy chair by her fireside holds no appeal for Mrs. Bennett, as compared with her own joyous Christmas Eve. Regardless of snow or cold, blocks without number she walks, and countless steps she climbs, in making her home calls to wish entire families a Merry Christmas, and leave her little gifts to reassure the children that there is a Santa Claus.
This very real Mrs. Santa humbly says, "If I can cheer but one person each Christmas, surely that is all the pay anyone could ask—and no one gets more joy out of it than I do."
"WHEN mother-love makes all things bright, When joy comes with the morning light, When children gather round their tree, Thou Christmas Babe, we sing of thee."