" (3 Nephi 1:13)
THE FIRST AND SECOND ESTATES
In His teachings to Abraham the Lord also said:
"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell;
"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." (Abraham 3:24-26)
OUR THREEFOLD PERSONALITY
To begin this Great Design, Adam, the first man, was created. The manner in which the spirit body housing the intelligence came into the mortal body of Adam was told to Abraham in this language:
"And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul." (Abraham 5:7)
Thus, in the setting up of the family unit that God established on this earth there were in its development, first the intelligences—co-existent, it has been declared, with God, and uncreated—which was organized and among whom God came down; then there were created spiritual bodies by the Creator, bodies even as Jesus showed Himself to possess to the brother of Jared; and then to these spiritual bodies there were given bodies of flesh, just as Jesus took on a fleshly body; so as to each of us today there is an intelligence, a body of the spirit, and a body of flesh; and the end and purpose of all this is, as the Lord told Abraham, that "they (we) might have glory added upon their (our) heads for ever and ever."
Thus in our existence here, we are carrying out the plan which was made for the great celestial family of which we are a part; we are going forward as the children of our God and fitting into the pattern He made for us. The place we shall hold in God's household, in God's family, in our heavenly and eternal home, whether it shall be in the inner family circle, or outside in the halls and ante-rooms, depends wholly upon what we ourselves do here.
HOW FAMILIES ARE BUILT
But the creation of a fleshly tabernacle for the one spirit, Adam, was only the beginning. There were myriads of other spirits to be given bodies. The Great Design provided the method, the eternal method, by which other fleshly tabernacles to house other spirits should be created. It must be done through families, husband and wife. Earth homes must be made in the pattern of the heavenly and eternal home. So the Creator, no helpmeet being found for man amongst all the then created things, declared:
"It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him," and "made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
"And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
"Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh." (Gen. 2:18-24; Moses 3:18 ff; Abraham 5:14 ff)
"And I, God, created man in mine own image, in the image of mine Only Begotten created I him; male and female created I them." (Moses 2:27)
Paul who seems to have been not overfond of woman, declared to the Corinthians that man "is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
"For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man.
"Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man....
"Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.
"For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God." (I Cor. 11:7 ff)
These were the purposes and the principles and thus was declared the significance, that lay behind the establishment of the family on this earth. As Paul said: "man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord."
PEOPLING THE EARTH
The first commandment given to Adam was "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth." (Moses 2:28)
Eve sang her hymn of gladness when she came to understanding after the Fall:
"Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 5:11)
Lehi teaching his son Jacob said:
"And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen.... And they would have had no children...." (2 Nephi 2:22-23)
But having fallen "they have brought forth children; yea, even the family of all the earth." (id, v. 20)
"But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things.
"Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy.
"And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may redeem the children of men from the fall. And because that they are redeemed from the fall they have become free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon, save it be by the punishment of the law at the great and last day, according to the commandments which God hath given.
"Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself.
"And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit;
"And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own kingdom." (2 Nephi 2:24-29)
So began the Earth family from which we spring, the First unit organism on this earth that marks the perfect relationship between man and woman.
OUR RETURN TO OUR CELESTIAL HOME
In our probationary period here—for we are on probation to determine whether we can keep this our second estate—we are working out the family plan of the celestial family, —that family of which Sister Eliza R. Snow has sung. We are proving whether we are worthy to go back into the inner family circle of our heavenly home, whether we can mingle with our Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities to come.
Jesus gave us the key to this inner family circle when he said:
"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3)
To the grieving Martha, Jesus had earlier said:
"I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
"And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." (John 11:25-26)
ETERNAL PROGRESSION
When the Lord said to the multitude on the Mount: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48) he was, it seems to me, not merely exhorting to righteousness, he was announcing a great principle. It would have been commanding us to do the impossible, and neither God nor the Christ ever does that, to require that we be as perfect here on earth as our Heavenly Father is in Heaven. But this commandment lays down the principle of eternal progression,—the principle that tells us there is no end to our progress, to our achievement, our righteousness, if we will but keep God's commandments, the principle that tells us that knowledge is infinite in its scope and in its power, and that in its fullness it may through the eternities become ours.
The full import of this principle of eternal progression is expressed in the formula which is attributed to President Snow: "As man now is, God once was; as God now is, man may become."
And this same principle so formulated finds confirmation in the declaration of the Savior:
"I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things." (John 8:28)
After he had healed the man with a thirty years' infirmity at the Pool of Bethesda, at the Feast of Pentecost, Jesus discoursing to the people, said:
"The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.
"For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel." (John 5:19-20)
OUR FAMILY DESTINY
We come now to our earthly family unit and its place in the universes of God's creations. Here we see there is another purpose for our existence on earth besides so living that we shall go back into the presence of God, to live with him, to take our place at the inner home fireside of the celestial family of our Father. We can now see that just as each mortal family here may be the parent of other mortal families, so God's celestial family is the parent of other celestial families. Each family unit here, that is created by and under the authority of the priesthood in the House of the Lord, is potentially another celestial family, another Heavenly Home, like to the one of which we are members,—a family unit that may ultimately do for other intelligences what God did for ours, even to the full eternal plan, for the Great Design is God's perfect plan.
But such a destiny for the family unit is predicated upon the observance of very definite laws. The Prophet Joseph explained certain of them in this way:
"Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory....
"In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; and in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of priesthood, (meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage;) and if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom: he cannot have an increase."—History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 391. (Joseph Smith's Teachings, p. 104)
Thus every earthly family unit, that is properly begun by a marriage in a House of the Lord performed by one having authority thereto has within its reach this infinite opportunity of eventually becoming creators after eternities of schooling and preparation; they have the infinite opportunity of heading another celestial family, which means the power and opportunity of creating worlds and peopling them. This is the supreme work, the very highest glory of which God has told us. Even its appreciative contemplation is almost beyond our finite reach.
The Psalmist sang: "I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High." (Ps. 82:6)
EMBODYING OTHER SPIRITS
But there is a third realm of duty and responsibility, which is also an opportunity, that belongs to every earthly family unit so created, and that is the providing of bodies for other spirits—God's children—who are waiting to come to this earth to live out their period of probation. This is not only a necessary, but an indispensable part of the Great Design; and its carrying out involves both temporal and spiritual considerations.
THE FACTOR OF HEREDITY
I shall not attempt to discuss the relationship that exists between biological man and spiritual man, but I will say it seems to be most intimate. Among many factors, this relationship involves the whole question of heredity about which so much is written and apparently so little really understood. This much may however be said,—a healthy body plus a healthy mind is the very best nursery for a healthy spirit. And this further may be said, that a healthy body is the best guarantee of a healthy mind, provided always that the environment, the home life, is likewise healthy. So the fully developed human being, has a healthy body, a healthy mind, a healthy environment.
Barring infrequent exceptions,—healthy bodies and healthy minds, beget healthy bodies and healthy minds. Apparently the law of heredity does sometimes upset this, but only occasionally. Such an eventuality is in our present knowledge beyond our control; but who shall say it shall always be so, that never shall human knowledge triumph over or learn to avoid this law? No wise man will venture an assertion that this shall never be.
But the element of environment is always, as to its healthfulness, almost wholly within the control of the family unit, because a healthy home life is just as attainable—perhaps more so—in a cabin as it is in a mansion.
Now we Latter-day Saints have had given to us all the rules, laws, and commandments necessary to enable us to fulfill the highest requirements in providing healthy bodies for the spirits still waiting in the spirit world to take on their second or probationary estate. The actions of our ancestors have put some restrictions upon this through the operation of heredity, but if we live chastely and righteously, heredity will intervene detrimentally less and less frequently.
THE FAMILY'S THREE GREAT FUNCTIONS
Thus the Latter-day Saint family, in a Latter-day Saint home, has three great functions to perform.
First,—it must bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came,—a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities.
Second,—it must so carry out its duties, rights, and functions as to enable it, in turn, to found a celestial home that shall in some eternity hereafter be equal in power, opportunity, and dignity with the celestial home from which we came and to which we shall return.
Third,—it must so live its life as to provide for the spirits yet waiting to come to this earth for their fleshly tabernacles, both bodies and minds that shall be healthy, for the spirits coming through them are the choice spirits, which have earned the right by their lives in their first estate, to come for their second estate, to the righteous homes—to the families of greatest worth, promise, and opportunity; and this family must provide for this spirit which it invites to come to its hearthstone, an environment that shall meet the strictest requirements of righteousness.
And certainly in one view this last may be considered the highest responsibility of any of the three. For our return to the inner circles of our celestial home and our building our own celestial home, affect most directly ourselves, we "twain who have been made one flesh"; but what body we provide for the spirit we invite to come to us, has intimately to do with whether that spirit returns to the inner circle of its celestial home, and whether it shall build its own celestial home,—the two great ends of our probationary and second estate.
God will not hold guiltless parents who fail to do the most they have power to do, to meet these responsibilities, because God will give us the power to do all we should or need do, if we shall live as he has told us to live. Not often will a wayward spirit come to those of us who have from the beginning done all we should do.
Thus the righteous life is not prescribed by a whimsical or capricious Deity. The prescriptions for such a life have their source deep in the secrets of eternity. They lead men to the highest degrees of glory, to the loftiest pinnacle of celestial achievement.
Latter-day Saints know that these matters are not idle theories, concocted over the ages in the minds of men; they know that these are the basic facts of existence; all doubt and unbelief about it have been thrust out from their minds and souls. One can stand only in awful and reverent silence at the grandness and glory of this vision of our promised destiny, predicated upon the building of a true home.
THE PERFECT EARTH HOME
Can any young couple, wedded as man and wife, be so dead to progress and to high adventure, that they are not caught up in their spirit to reach out for this prize, these immortal treasures that lie waiting for the righteous, treasures that endure forever and forever.
What must this earthly home of divine destiny be, to become the celestial family of infinity?
True love must be there, true love that blesses and hallows every thought and act. Mere sex passion will not do; that soon burns out and leaves only ashes to be tossed about by the wind. The divorce court, not the divine destiny of a celestial family, waits at the end of that short road.
There must be chastity in this home. An unchaste wife tears out the very heart of home. "A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones," says the Proverb. (Prov. 12:4) The unchaste mother marks her offspring with disgrace. An unchaste father brings to the home a canker that consumes it and leaves only dross behind.
There must be respect in this home, and honor, Patience in abundance and a full measure of charity must be found there. Discord must not find therein a resting place and distrust must not cross the threshold. Loyalty in thought and word and deed must there abide; disloyalty puts out the sacred fire of family life. Therein must be kindliness; loving trust must throw its stalwart arms about them. High hope must lodge there; despair must be driven from the door. Children must have a welcome; motherhood and fatherhood bring the highest happiness and are our loftiest destiny. Modesty must dwell always in the bosoms of the daughters, and respect for womanhood must fill the hearts of the sons. God's Word of Wisdom must be kept, then health shall fill the air as a sacred incense. Sloth must not creep over the door sill; industry and thrift must rule there in undisputed sway. Faith must cover the home as a kindly light; unbelief must be given no shelter. Righteousness must clothe them as a mantle; their feet must go always along the path of duty. Prayer shall ascend to our Heavenly Father as from a holy altar; God's peace and blessing will hedge them about against Evil. Obedience to God's commandments must guide and cheer them; Satan must be shut out from their presence. Wisdom shall stand guard always at the threshold; so shall their outgoings be along paths of eternal progress, and their incomings laden with righteousness. Honesty must be treasured as a jewel; truth must be worn as a crown. They must banish worldly pride from their fireside; vanity must be trodden under foot. They must cast out selfishness through the door, nor let greed and envy ever enter. The poor must not cry out to them in vain; a hard heart is the herald of destruction. The virtuous and lovely must be delved for; things of good report and praiseworthy must be sought out. Honor and respect must be given to the Holy Priesthood of God; no celestial home can be built in any other presence.
THE FAMILY GLORY
Then shall the mortal home here lead us back to the celestial home from which we came. Then shall the family here live and grow into a celestial family there. Then shall the spirits we bring here, themselves go back to their celestial home there, themselves build their own celestial home, themselves bring other noble spirits to mortal homes to work out their destiny. Then shall salvation wait upon us, and exaltation beckon us on. Thus we shall come to the ultimate glory.
All this shall come to those who, obedient to God's law, shall be united together in the House of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God. All this can come to them through no other cause.
TO YOUTH
You youth of the Church, bow not your necks in defiance, nor stiffen your backs in rebellion. Follow the counsel of your parents; therein is great wisdom. Resolve that the high destiny which God Himself offers you, shall, God willing and helping you,—as He will—be yours.
The father must be the head of the house; but the Mother is the queen of the home.
THE PART OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters, where your high duty lies in all this,—your duty not only but your lofty destiny as well? We fathers cannot do this, we are not so framed; we can only help; the great work is yours, yours by your very natures, which means by divine design and appointment. You shall fail in your mission if you do not do it, and the world will be lost. God give you strength in the full measure of your need, that man may earn his full reward; that our homes shall be so built here that they shall be bathed always in the saving sunshine of God's blessings; that so built here, these homes of ours shall grow and ripen into celestial homes of eternity; that thus we shall have a part in and not be cast out from, the glorious fruition of God's plans and purposes which cannot be put aside or brought to naught.