[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: A Tribute to Mrs. Avery | Author: Unknown]

A TRIBUTE TO MRS. AVERY.
	A tribute to Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, who has announced her re-
tirement at the coming National Suffrage
Convention from the corresponding secre-
taryship, is receiving many expressions of
affection and good-will. Mrs. E. M. Bab-
cock writes of her:
	Nothing could more forcibly express the
esteem in which she is held than the words
of one who has been actively engaged with
her in suffrage work for many years: “She
is the loveliest character that I ever
knew.”
	Mrs. Avery is not only a suffragist, but a 
philanthropist, humanitarian and reformer,
in the full sense of these words; in fact she
is everything that tends to make the world
better. She possesses rare executive abili-
ty, and in her enthusiasm for humanity she
has used both her abilities and private for-
tune most liberally. . . . Mrs. Avery was
corresponding secretary of the committee of
arrangements for the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, the National and
International Council of Women and 
National Suffrage Association, all of which
held such successful meetings in Chicago
during the World’s Fair. She was also
corresponding secretary of the National
Council of Women held in Washington in
1895. Mrs. Avery’s management of the
International Council of Women, held in 
Washington in 1888, under the auspices of 
the National Suffrage Association, was the 
crowning effort of her executive genius. 
There were representatives from fifty-three
different national organizations from seven
distinct nations. The expenses of this
meeting made a grand total of $14,000, the
financial risk being assumed by Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Avery. 
	Mrs. Avery has for several years wished
to retire from the secretaryship, and has re-
tained it only through Miss Anthony’s
persuasions. She has been secretary first
in the National and later in the National 
American W. S. A for twenty-one years.
						—Ex.


ABOUT 200 delegates took part in the
annual meeting lately held in Brooklyn,
N. Y., of the General Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution. Miss Ada-
line W. Sterling presided. The Society’s
work in behalf of the Valley Forge enter-
prise has been active, and all the State
auxiliaries have contributed appreciable
amounts, Massachusetts leading off with
$1,700. One new undertaking proposed
is a “fund” for young women in procuring
a college education. From the fund $300
will be advanced without interest, until it
can be repaid. Applicants must be eligable
for membership in the society. A resolu-
tion offered by Mrs. John L. McNeill of
Colorado protests against the use of the
national flag for commercial and decorative
purposes. A committee has been appointed
to co-oporate with a society organized to
prevent it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

