[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: QUEEN VICTORIA. | Author: Unknown]

QUEEN VICTORIA.
	Queen Victoria was the only daughter, in
fact the only child of Edward, Duke of Kent,
Fourth son of King George the III. She
was born May 24, 1819. In her childhood
and through the early years of girlhood,
she was somewhat acquainted with the
trials of genteel poverty. At her father’s
death, her mother, the Duchess of Kent,
and her young daughter, Victoria, Eng-
land's future Queen, were entirely depen-
dent upon the bounty of her uncle for their
support, and for the education of the future
ruler of Great Britain. This support we are
told was not liberal, but rather grudgingly
bestowed, and our young princess was
therefore taught to practice economy in her
early life, which has doubtless proved of
great benefit to her since. It certainly
brought her into closer communion with
the greatest number of her subjects. Her
sympathy was extended very many times
by relieving the wants of the distressed.
	Those who had the privilege of her ac-
quaintance in her childhood say she was of
a very lovable disposition, kind to all, yet
firm in what she conceived to be right.
	Victoria was proclaimed Queen of Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, June 20,
1837, ascending the throne in her eigh-
teenth year. She had been brought up far
from the court by her widowed mother, al-
most isolated, shut off from royalty and
their customs. Although living in Ken-
sington palace, she was confined to the
rooms, grudgingly allowed them by her
uncle, not permitted the freedom of the
palace and its surroundings. The small in-
come allowed them compelled them to live
in retirement. She was almost unknown
to those even whose duty it was to announce
to the new queen her accession.
	The Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Lord Chamberlain arrived at five in the
morning at Kensington palace, where they
resided. All the gates were shut and it
was with some difficulty that they obtained
admittance to the presence of the princess,
awakened suddenly by their message. At
eleven o’clock the council met.


[Column 1]
	Mr. Charles Greville, secretary of the
Privy Council, has related with an amia-
bility unusual to him, this first entrance of
the Sovereign upon her public duties. The
king died at twenty minutes after two a.
m., June 20, 1837, and the young queen
met the council at Kensington palace at
eleven a. m. Never was anything like the
first impression she produced, or the chorus
of praise and admiration which was raised
about her manner and behavior, and cer-
tainly not without justice. It was very ex-
traordinary and something far beyond what
was looked for. Her extreme youth and
inexperience and the ignorance of the world
concerning her, naturally excited intense
curiosity to see how she would act on this
trying occasion; and there was a consider-
able assemblage at the palace, notwith-
standing the short notice that was given.
	The first thing to be done was to teach
her her lesson, which for this purpose,
Lord Melbourne had himself to learn. She
bowed to the Lords, took her seat and then
read her speech in a clear, distinct and
audible voice, and without any appearance
of fear or embarrasment.
	She was quite plainly dressed and in
mourning. After she had read her speech
and taken and signed the oath for the
security of the Church of Scotland, the
privy councilors were sworn—the two royal
dukes fi[-]st by themselves, and as these two
old men, her uncles, knelt before her, swear-
ing allegiance and kissing her hand, she
blushed to her eyes, as though she felt the
contrast between their civil and their
natural relations; this was the only sign of
emotion which she evinced. Her manner
to them was very gracious and engaging.
She kissed them both and rose from her
chair and moved toward the Duke of Sussex
who was fartherest from her, and too infirm
to reach her. She seemed rather bewil-
dered at the multitude who were sworn,
and who came one after another to kiss her
hand; but she did not speak to anybody,
nor did she make the slightest difference in
her manner to any individual of any rank,
station or party.
	The Duke of Wellington was heard to
exclaim, “If she had been my own daugh-
ter I could not have wished her to do
better.”
	Victoria was crowned Queen one year
after her accession, her coronation taking
place in June, 1838. Some-months after
troubles arose over the Dominion of
Canada and Her Majesty resigned. The
Duke of Wellington advised the young
queen to send for Sir Robert Peel, who
formed a new ministry, but it was a Tory
cabinet. Sir Robert Peel readily made his
selection. The queen although offering
no objections did not hesitate to say she
regretted the loss of the Whigs, but
yielded without hesitation to the consti-
tutional rule which required her to part
with them.
	But when Sir Robert interfered with her
household, requesting the dismissal of
Lady Normandy and the Duchess of
Sutherland, to whom the queen was at-
tached, she could not see why because
their husbands were politically opposed to
Sir Robert Peel, that her household should
be broken up, and she declined to dismiss
any of her ladies
	As she was unmarried it was her duty
according to custom to make the proposal
of marriage. Prince Albert, her cousin,
was visiting her at one of her palaces, (I

[Column 2]
think it was Windsor) when she naively
asked how he would like to live there al-
ways? He answered that he would like it
very much.
	When the queen opened Parliament on
the 16th of January, 1840, she announced
to the nation her intention to marry her
cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe Colburg, of
Gotha. They were married at the Chapel
Royal, St. James, February 10, 1840, and
all England rejoiced.
	This marriage was productive of much
good. Prince Albert proved a wise
Counselor to Her Majesty, and he endeared
himself to Her Majesty’s subjects, because
of his love and kindness to all the people
of the realm. Their union was blessed
with nine children, five daughters and four
sons.
	Queen Victoria was of a very sympathet-
ic nature. She fully sympathized with the
oppressed. After a most successful reign
of nearly sixty-four years, during which
Great Britain grew to be the mightest
nation in the whole world, the good Queen
Victoria, like other mortals of less renown,
passed to the great beyond. She died on
the Isle of Wight, January 22, 1901. When
the news of her demise was wired abroad,
it sent a thrill of sympathy and sorrow
throughout the entire world.
	The greatest woman sovereign that ever
wore a crown is no more numbered among
mortals was the universal feeling in all
civilized lands She has run her course,
finished her work on earth and left a rec-
ord behind her that in many respects has
never been surpassed by any of her sex.
	She reigned successfully over a people
which like the Americans stands for liber-
ty, progress and enlightenment “Queen
Victoria was certainly the greatest sover-
eign of our century,” wrote an English
editor. “She was the noblest, the kindest,
the most devoted of women who ever sat
on a throne. Woman, yes it is that holy
word, heavy with blessings to most born to
this planet, which comes to the lips from
hearts in which it has long been enshrined,
as we stand by the dead form of our be-
loved queen. She was always so womanly,
so tender and unselfish; so prompt with an
arrowy word sped by wise and informed
affection; so just in her silence; so truly
eloquent in her speech; so steadfast in her
trust in all that is best in men and women;
so ready to take us all, helpless children,
wounded soldiers, broken lives and bruised
hearts, triumphant servants and conquer-
ing geniuses, into the sunshine of an
appreciative and compassionate heart.”
E. J.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY SOCIABLE.
	The Primary officers’ held a special
meeting and social in the Templeton build-
ing, Saturday, March 20, 1901, in honor of
the retiring counselor, Sister Mary L. Mor-
ris, and also to appoint another counselor
in her place. President Camilla C. Cobb
presided at the meeting.
	After the opening exercises the roll of
officers was called and was responded to
with sentiments.
	President Cobb in her opening remarks
said this special occasion was tendered sis-
ter Morris to show our love and esteem for
her. She had always done whatever she
was called upon to do, and had been very
efficient in her work. She now wished to
resign her position as counselor in the

[Column 2]
Stake Board on account of ill health. It
would be necessary to appoint another
counselor, but among so many faithful
workers it was difficult to choose.
	Counselor L. A. Wells moved that Sister
Fanny Woolley be elected to fill the
vacancy. A vote was taken and Sister
Woolley was unanimously sustained.
	Sister Fanny Woolley expressed her
thanks for the honor conferred, and was
willing to respond to the call. Said she
felt her weakness but knew the Lord would
assist her to fill the position. Asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt it a privilege to
be with us on this occasion. Had known
Sister Morris for many years. She had al-
ways been interested in Primary work.
Her influence with the children reflected
great credit on her, knew she had the con-
fidence and prayers of us all.
	Sister Katherine Wells thought Sister
Mary L. Morris should be made honorary
aid in the Stake Board. The idea was
favorably received by all present.
	Sister Morris responded, saying: “While
my hand has its cunning and my brain its
power to act, I am going to work for the
kingdom of God.”
	A number of the officers expressed their
love for Sister Morris and regret at losing
her from the Primary, and also felt we had
been directed aright in selecting Sister
Fanny Woolley to fill the vacancy.
	Fanny Farnes favored us with the solo,
“O Happy Day.”
	Counselor L. A. Wells was pleased to
speak a few words in honor of Sister Mor-
ris. Referred to their labors together.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a recitation
entitled, “The Returning Summer.”
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt honored in
being with us. She loved all the officers
and had enjoyed her labors with them, but
was not able to continue her work in the
Primary. Spoke of her interest in the
Temple, and said that she desired to labor
there. Felt grateful at this expression of
love that had been shown her, and prayed
that God would bless us.
	A vote of thanks was then tendered Sis-
ter Morris for her past labors in the
Primary.
	Sister Rida Taylor gave a recitation en-
titled, “Trouble in the Amen Corner.”
	After singing, “Our Work and Our
Wealth,” and benediction by Sister Barrett,
the company adjourned to another room
where refreshments were served, and Presi-
dent Cobb, in a neat little speech, presented
Sister Morris with a handsome china berry
dish, as a token of love and appreciation
from her co-workers in the Primary cause.
	In response to a gift from the Primary
of a handsome berry dish and a very choice
bouquet of American beauty roses and car-
nations, Sister Morris said, “I value these
tokens of love more than gold and dia-
monds.”
