[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: “WHYS AND WHEREFORES.” | Author: Unknown]

		“WHYS AND WHEREFORES.”

“In the beginning!” Well, it is not stated,
    Why everything in heaven and earth was made;
And yet we read that God or Gods created
    The earth and sea, the sunshine and the shade.

And as we daily learn, the plain truths witness,
    That God’s unfailing plans together run,
We find in all, through all eternal fitness,
    And come to see why some great things are
	done.

And yet with all we learn we know so little!
    Like school boys who of old their balls would
	wind,
We snap a thread sometimes, as pipe-stem brittle,
    It tangles, snarls, the end we cannot find.

Like “stupids” idly on the high stool perching,
    Or meekly bearing the old master’s rod;
The lesson comes, no mortal man by searching,
    Without the Spirit’s aid can find out God.

But by the light of heavenly inspiration, 
“The testimony of the Lord is sure,”
And making wise the simple brings salvation
    To all who seek sincerely to secure.

I deviate from points I wish to touch and there-
	fore.
    Will turn abruptly here and finish soon;
I’d like to try to tell the “why and wherefore,”
    These friends are gathered here this afternoon.

’Tis not to show off clothing rich and splendid.
For that the weather should have been more
fine.*
Nor vet that costly gifts would be extended,
    By this dear day’s fair guest, now Seventy-nine.

Beloved Bathsheba, our sister, mother,  
    ’Tis not for any worldly rank you claim;
But for a greater cause than any other—
    You follow Christ and magnify His name.

You do His works and have done strictly, purely,
    These seventy-nine long years, your whole life
	through;
And we your sincere friends are honored surely,
    In doing honor unto one like you.
-----
	*A shower of rain continued all day.

[Column 2]
Not only we who have this priceless pleasure,
    Of greeting you with greetings true and fond,
But all the Saints your name revere and treasure,
    Not here alone, but in the world beyond.

Joseph and Hyrum are anticipating,
    With thousands more, the happy, joyous scene,
When President George A. Smith now calmly
waiting,
Shall, welcome home his bride, his priestess,
	queen!

But, oh, “come down,” we’ll not go off in
	raptures;
    This world is good enough for you to stay, 
Long, long, ere that dear hand your spirit cap-
	tures—
    We want you here for many a glad birthday.
				Louisa L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
