[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: ALPINE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The first quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
the meeting house at American Fork, on
Friday, April 26, 1901, President Jemima
Durrant presiding. On the stand were
President Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth and Rebecca Standring, all
of the General Board. The officers of the
Alpine Stake were all present and all the
presidents of the different wards.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Prayer by Emma J.
Featherstone. Singing, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	The secretary read a report taken at the
General Conference of the Relief Society.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
opening remarks. Said her mission had
hitherto been with the young ladies, but
was assured that now the Lord would bless
her in her present duties and calling. Vice-
President Martha Webb reported American
Fork Society. Pleasant Grove was re-
ported by President Sarah Foutz; Linden
by President Martha Woolley. President
Rebecca Standring was always proud to re-
port Lehi. They have 302 members and
more joining, all willing to work in this
great cause. They paid their ten cent fund,
they also have 1,687 bushels of wheat, hold
their meetings every two weeks, and some-
times take their meetings to the scattered
Saints. Prayed that all might be prepared
to give a righteous account.
	President Jane S. Richards said she was
pleased to be with us today and to see so
many present. Hoped the sisters would be
paid for coming, for it is the Lord’s work
we are engaged in and we agreed to come
and do it. We are here to stay and the
Lord has a care over us. He has made the
country and everything beautiful and if we
have a work assigned us we should try to
do it in the best possible manner. One of
the greatest things in the world is to have
children and to raise them in the best pos-


[Column 1]
sible manner, and we must ask the Lord
daily what we should do to accomplish
this and to keep them from going astray.
There is much required of those who pre-
side and let us sustain them, and do all we
can to help each other. Let us have all
the union that we can and all the love that
we can. The Savior lived among the poor
and lowly. She believed He had a great
respect for the poor. We are all on the
Lord’s side. And let us live so that we
may belong to that tried people who will
get their reward hereafter. Advised the
sisters to keep correct reports, referred to
President Brigham Young who said the
women had been slighted, their work had
not been recorded, and one month before
his death he established quarterly confer-
ences that the women might be represented.
Urged that every member pay ten cents
a year for the general fund, the Lord gives
us all we have, and we should not feel this
a hardship, but give it willingly. 
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth bore testi-
mony to the remarks of the previous speak-
ers. She was proud of the Relief Society.
Said women made but little advancement
in the world until the Prophet Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
Thought the reports given were very
creditable, and would be very glad when
our General Building was completed, so
that the sisters could have the use of it.
Spoke of her mother’s motto, which was
“Trust in God and fear no evil.”
	Singing. “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Harriet Jacobs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock.
Meeting opened by singing, “Joy to the
world, the Lord will come.” Prayer by
Brother Wm. R. Webb. The choir sang
an anthem, “Heavenly Father, hear our
prayer.”
	Cedar Fort Relief Society was reported
by President Elizabeth Berry; Alpine, by
President Sarah Marsh, and Manila by
President Isadora Beck. The reports were
quite encouraging. The officers and teach-
ers all seemed alive to their duties and will-
ing to take hold of any work.	Nearly all
the Wards have granaries with a consider-
able amount of grain. Realized that
the Relief Society is just the place for
women to work out their salvation and
learn to rear their children to serve the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards felt honored
to see the brethren come to meeting to help
the sisters. Thought we were a blest peo-
ple, we enjoy each other’s society, and one
of the best things that ever happened to us
is to be organized in this society. Wished
the sisters would visit those who are tardy
and hold meetings with them.	Desired all
the sisters to be alive to their duties, and
no one should be neglected. Said she used to
visit twenty-five branches every year, visit-
ing will keep them alive. Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to be very energetic in visiting.
The Lord will assist us in our duties. He
will give us His spirit to aid and improve

[Column 2]
us. Let us respect the authorities over us,
and if we have trouble, settle it without
going to the teachers. Let us rather go to
the Lord, and He will help us if we are
humble before Him.
	Singing, “Only remembered by what I
have done.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth said as 
the home is incomplete without the mother,
so the Relief Society is not perfect without
the brethren. She was proud to know the
pioneer men and women of this country.
Always had an interest in Relief Society
work, for it was established by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Spoke of the General
Building to be erected for the use of the
sisters. Thought we had one of the finest
sites in Salt Lake City.
	Brother Geo. Cunningham encouraged
the sisters in their work of relieving suffer-
ing humanity. Referred to the widow
who cast in two mites. It is the little
things that count, but these sisters are
doing a great work.
	Sister Harriet Jacobs said the Lord was
always willing to bless His children. We
have had a feast today in answer to prayer-
If we could realize our true position we
would never willingly stay away from
meeting. The Lord blesses his people.
We want our sons and daughters to go
forth and help to spread the Gospel. Spoke
of the blessing of paying tithing and desired
to stimulate the sisters to do their duty.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
	Sister Annie S. Hindley said we are
God’s children and it is necessary that we
have trials. We must make sacrifices if we
expect to receive the blessings. Let us be
humble before the Lord, and do all the good
we can.
	Sister Zina Chipman was pleased to be
numbered with the Relief Society, and de-
sired to perform every duty required of her.
	Sister Laura Cutler said we had a great
work, not only in our own households, but
in the community where we live. Let us
do something to bless mankind and to im-
prove ourselves.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said we
form good resolutions in these meetings,
but when we go away we are apt to forget
them. It is necessary for us to be work-
ing constantly to keep us in line. When
we have responsible positions we become
brightened.
	President Jas H. Clark said here may be
found the spiritual backbone of the com-
munity. I believe the sisters a great in-
fluence in the Church, and in the progress
of the work of the Lord. “Sisters, you are
acknowledged of God. Your responsibili-
ties are no less than those of the brethren
and are no less recorded in heaven.”
	Brother Wm. Webb felt to congratulate
the sisters on the good advice and instruc-
tion they had received. We need to labor
as a unit in these things. Let us wake up
and do our duty and attend our meetings.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
closing remarks. Felt grateful to the
speakers, and also to the “Old Folks’

[Column 3]
Choir,” who had attended and cheered us
with sweet music. 
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Wm.
Grant. Conference adjourned for three
months.
