WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REBECCA E. STANDRING.
	On Friday, the 19th of December, oc-
curred the death of Sister Rebecca E.
Standring, one of the staunch and devoted
women of the Relief Society. While for
some time past Sister Standring has not
been in good health, it was only a month
before her death that she was honorably
released from the position of President of
Alpone Stake Relief Society.
	Sister Standring was born February 20,
1828, at Northampton, England. She was
the daughter of William and Charlotte Ford
Smith, one of eleven children, two brothers
and two sisters now living. She joined the
Church in February, 1851, and emigrated to
America four years later, remaining in New
York and Dayton, Ohio, two years before
coming to Salt Lake City, where she ar-
rived in September, 1857. At the time of
the “move” she went to Springville, and in
1859 was married to Edwin Standring at
Lehi where she has ever since lived.
	At this time Sister Standring became
quite a leader among her associates both in
religious and social circles. She was a mem-
ber of the Lehi choir and the first lady
teacher in the Sunday school of that ward, a
position which she faithfully filled for thirty
years. She was a member of the Home
Dramatic Club and in many roles displayed
marked ability. For ten years Sister
Standring was secretary of the Lehi ward
Relief Society, and in 1879 became ward
president. At the organization of the Al-
pine stake 1901, Sister Standring was elec-
ted to be stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, in which position she was most effi-
cient and much beloved. When the Relief
Society was incorporated in 1891, Sister
Standring was elected on the direstorate and
served in that position until 1901. She at-
tended the business meetings of that body
at her own expense most faithfully, and was
considered a valuable member of the general
board both on account of her good counsel
and executive ability, but owing to the more
frequent meetings and the many calls for
the members she with others living at dis-
tances, were released. She gave her time
and service to the Lord’s work, and was one
of the most devoted, and untiring laborers
in the Relief Society cause. She has worked
for the living and the dead in the St.
George, Manti and Salt Lake temples. Sis-
ter Standring was not blessed with children
of her own, yet she had been a devoted
mother to her adopted children. Many will
always remember her and cherish that mem-
ory in their hearts.
	Her call to labor in higher fields and her
release from earthly chains came at the ad-
vanced age of nearly 86 years after a long
life of loving. The associate members of the
Alpine Stake Relief Society Board pay the
following beautiful tribute.
	During the past twelve years that we have
been working together as a Board, she has
been the guiding spirit of the almost num-
berless efforts for the advancement of the
Sisters in the Alpine Stake. Has she ever
failed in doing her part? ask those with
whom she has labored. Ask those who
have heard her voice raised in defense of 
truth; and prayer to God. We cannot for-
get that she has set before us the noble ex-

[Column 2]
ample of a pure and blameless life, and has
guided her throne with all womanly virtues.
She has shown her excellency in her public
duties, in her religion, and in the advance- 
ment of woman kind. She has on many oc-
casions inspired us to put forth our utmost
efforts to live a nobler and purer life. What-
ever is best in womanhood is exemplified in
her life. We will remember her best for
those qualities which every woman can pos-
sess. It is what one does and what one
really is that counts in the end. The long
and beautiful life of our Dear President,
will ever be a living example for all the sis-
ters who knew her in this Stake of Zion. Her
genuine good qualities, her devotedness to
duty, and her noble example, will be as a
beacon light to us all. No more fitting
words of her life could be quoted than is
expressed in one of the proverbs, "She has
stretched out her hand to the poor, yea
she has reached forth her hand to the needy,
she has opened her mouth with wisdom,
and in her tongue was the law of kind-
ness, she looked well after the ways of her
household, and ate not the bread of the 
idler.
	We, her sisters are delighted to honor
her and her memory for ever. On account
of ill health she was released as President
of the Alpine Stake Relief Society by
the sisters at a conference held at the Amer-
ican Fork First Ward, October 19, 1913.
And was officially released at a quarterly
conference held at Lehi, October 26, 1913.
She passed from this life December 19.
1913, at the age of eighty-five years, nine
months, and twenty-nine days. She leaves
two adopted children, Alice Standring 
Royle, and John Standring. A whole com-
munity and a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss. She died as she had lived, 
a true and stalwart, faithful, Latter-day
Saint. 
	Sister Standring’s funeral was held
Monday December 22, of which event, Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth furnishes the fol-
lowing:
	Sisters Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth were appointed by President Wells,
to go to Lehi and attend the funeral of
Mrs. Rebecca Standring, and represent the
General Board. The services were held
in the Lehi tabernacle, and conducted by
Bishop J. H. Gardner of the Second Ward. 
	The singing of the choir was beautiful,
and appropriate. Mrs. Clifford Young and
Mrs. F. F. Kirkham gave solos. There
were many lovely flowers. The speakers
were, President James H. Clark and Able
John Evans of the Alpine Stake presidency,
T. R. Cutler for many years, bishop of
Lehi, Mrs. S. L. Chipman counselor of
Sister Standring read a fine sketch of
Mrs. Standring’s life.
	The building was well filled, and all who
addressed the meeting testified of the noble
life work of Sister Rebecca Standring;
Mrs. Cannon spoke of working with her in
the Salt Lake temple and on the General
Board; Mrs. Farnsworth spoke of her
womanly qualities, as a home maker and
gentle woman, as an efficient director and of
the love and high esteem in which she was
held by our president, Sister Wells and all
her associates, William Southwick, a life
long friend dedicated the grave.


