MADAME DAVENPORT, AGE 90, AD
	DRESSES LADIES’ CLUB.
	The absolute demonstration of a new out-
look for the human race was made re-
cently at the Ladies’ Literary club in
Salt Lake City, when Madame Charlotte
de Goliere Davenport personally illus-
trated the possibility of retaining at
90 years of age the appearance, viva-
city, physical elasticity and mental vigor,
not of youth, yet of the best of an early
prime. Madame Davenport, claiming to be
in her ninetieth year, and the mother of 24
children, appears hardly 50, and moves,
speaks and talks with the charm of a girl
of 20 years.
	Her points were made with a freshness
and wit which kept her audience bubbling
with laughter at times, and interested and
enthusiastic throughout.
	“Many people are sick,” said the speaker,
“because they are too lazy to take the trou-
ble to be well, or because they selfishly cling
to their ailments, loving them too well to let
go.” She illustrated her belief with many
interesting incidents, and continued: “There
is but one class of people for whom I have
a contempt—it is the sick. I have helped
to cure many people by showing them they
should be ashamed of their ailments instead
of exploiting and boasting of them. That
is what I call complaining—it is boasting—
and by it the sick build up what they pre-
tend to want to get rid of.”
	Madame Davenport is on her way to
California to teach a class of 75 women
“how to take care of themselves.” She has
been eight times around the world; served
38 years as private teacher of hygiene to
the empress of Austria, and now holds a
pension given her by the emperor Franz
Joseph. It is at periods like that in which
she measures her life: “I taught 25 years,”
at such a place: “I studied that science for
65 years,” and so on. Madame Davenport
states that she has a son 71 years of age,
one of 11 sons out of the 24 who are still
living. She remained in the city a week,
and it was hoped would address the young
girls, in whom she declares she is especially
interested.


