HUMANITY VS. MILLINERY.
	To “my lady” who decks her hat in gay
plumage, the following interesting paper on
the above subject, given by Miss Linda
Jessup of this city at a recent gathering of
fashionable women, will be somewhat in-
structive in fact, the subject will doubtless
be of interest and information to all women,
for while Miss Jessup handles the matter of
birds and their plumage for adornment, in
a somewhat humorous vein, yet she does not
fail to show the seriousness of the matter
as well. It is to be hoped that the women
who desire moderation in all things and can
wield an influence for good among their
kind, will heed the lesson taught by the
perusal of this article and use it for hu-
manity’s sake:
	“We have admired and then copied our
distant cousins, living closer to nature than
we, who with the daring of the simple life
appeared at the great ceremonials clad in
nature’s true garments, their birthday
clothes, but topped always by a magnificent
headdress. Not to be outclassed we have
wares that engulf us of Pocohontas trim-
mings, a Zulu top feather, a Navajo war
bonnet, or Black Hawk feather piece.
	“If by some great act of misfortune one
of our number found herself alone on Bird
island, foodless, clotheless, bonnetless, even
as the Indian woman of early tradition,
whom the histories tell us was found on one
of the Santa Barbara channel islands after
a desertion of twenty years, her modern
sister’s ability to fashion a garment from


[Column 1]
birds’ feathers, a needle from a slender
bone, and food from the same source, would
be consistent and applauded around the
world, with a contract drawn for a series
of moving pictures. But only a few of us
can be candidates for a Crusoe existence.
	“We do, however, crave the coverings
that nature has given the natural inhabi-
tants of the Bird islands, and do not scruple
to use every means to transfer that covering
from their bodies for our personal adorn-
ment. If it were only bad for the com-
plexion or caused horrid lines and blemishes
to wear dead birds, like so many scalps,
there might then be an immediate remedy
for this wretched fashion, but the aigrette
is beautiful and becoming in its airy grace,
and so the massacre goes on, or rather, this
statement should be qualified and used in
the past tense. In the passage of the
plumage bill that is a part of the new tariff
law, the ornithologists, agriculturists, scien-
tists and friends in general of the birds with
bright or dull plumage sincerely hope they
see the beginning of the end, but, as our
state game commissioner says all new laws
have to be tried out, it is still too early in
its passage to have noted great results. We
have incurred the wrath of incoming trav-
elers, who, through ignorance of the new
law, or otherwise, have failed to declare
those delicate bits of adornment—the
aigrettes. One opera singer screamed out
her wrath when ordered to give up $1,000
in aigrettes that she had brought to this
country for stage purposes, and was loud in
her denunciation of this free land, suggest-
ing to the custom inspectors that the Statute
of Liberty be removed from its pedestal.
This new law reads:
	“ ‘Aigrettes or other bird plumage, whose
importation is forbidden by the new tariff
law, must be removed from the hats of in-
coming travelers and turned over to the
custom authorities before the travelers
leave the wharf. Secretary McAdoo today
so ruled because of reports that an aigrette
had been snatched from the hat of a woman
at New York.’
	“ ‘That the importation of aigrettes, egret
plumes or ‘osprey’ plumes, and the feathers,
quills, heads, wings, tails, skins or parts of
skins of wild birds, either raw or manu-
factured and not for scientific or educational
purposes, is hereby prohibited ; but this pro-
vision shall not apply to the feathers or
plumes of ostriches, or to the feathers of
domestic fowls of any kind.’ Think what
it will mean for the whole of the United
States by only six lines of national law to
end the disgraceful bird slaughter that is
going on in response to the demands of the
traders in American fashions.
	“Our dictators of fashion declare three
feet of lonesome trimming dangling from
the rear of our head coverings the correct
style for winter, and, with the assurance of
the feminine, we accept the crazy style, ap-
pearing in the street, in places of worship,
the ballroom, yea, even in Mr. Harriman’s
autos, do we assist those public servants in
polishing spots in the car windows. Truly
our sympathy goes out to the long suffering
individual in the crowded car, on being
sweetly addressed by the lady standing in
front of him, with, ‘Does my feather annoy
you,’ This after frequent punctures over
his countenance and a pair of inflamed eyes.
‘O no madam, I cut it off ten minutes ago.’
	“There will come a certain reaction, and
the season of 1914 may find the demure

[Column 2]
Quaker bonnet or even the calico sunbonnet
minus even the tail feathers from the barn-
yard fowl. A little extract from a paper
read at the annual convention of the New
York state federation by Mrs. May Riley
Smith will give a slight idea of the obstinacy
with which the gentle sex has fought against
every advancement by those hoping to save
the remnant of bird life. Extract: ‘Have
you read and did you shiver as we did over
the action of the forestry committee of
women in St. Louis, to whom the state fed-
eration referred the audubon pledge? Utter-
ly blind to, and apparently ignorant of the
economic relations between the insect, the
bird and the tree, which it is supposed to be
the object of a forestry committee to pre-
serve, the secretary civilly remarked: ‘I
must refuse to subscribe to that sort of
thing, because if I want to wear an aigrette
I shall certainly do so, and my conscience
won’t hurt me a particle.’ And the chair-
man agreed that ‘We must refuse to ad-
vocate the pledge, for I intend to wear one
of those very things on my hat.’ And the
newspapers that chronicled this decision
added: ‘The clubwomen of St. Louis will
not uphold the forestry committee in this
action.’
	“It is the manner of this decision, the
defiance of public sentiment by women that
hurts most in this occurrence. It was a
happy moment to turn to the delightful re-
port of ‘The Bird Masque’ given the latter
part of the summer in New Hampshire near
President Wilson’s summer home. Great
interest was aroused, not alone because of
the interest and principal parts taken by the
President’s daughters, but the beauty of the
play, its settings, out of doors and the pop-
ularity of its author, Percy Mackaye.
	“The case is far more serious than the
world at large suspects. But for the profits
the birds would be unmolested, and no un-
protected wild species can long escape the
demands of commerce. From the trackless
jungles of New Guinea, round the world
both ways, to the snow-capped peaks of the
Andes no unprotected bird is safe. Amer-
ca’s share in the destruction of the birds
for adornment purposes is 150,000,000—
Europe the same, and England 30,000,000
yearly. Millions each year!
	“Do you not marvel that Uncle Sam sat so
comfortably in his big arm chair with a bird
on one arm (and we, as a nation, not even
holding that bird sacred), complacently
waving the stars and stripes with the other
hand over his almost birdless fields? The
brilliancy of the plumage or the brightness
of the song does not argue that the feath-
ered creature is useless.
	“One pair of rose breasted grosbeaks can,
in a week, destroy all of the potato bugs on
an acre of potatoes and then keep the vines
clean for an entire season.
	“Whereas, two boys with a bucket of
paris green at a salary of one cent for every
hundred slain bugs, cannot even approxi-
mate that record. Chemistry has brought
its past breakers to great proficiency, but the
insects continue to work too insidiously and
too quickly for man adequately to cope with
them. It is for you to remember, when you
come to select your new hat, that the insect
rises as the bird falls; $200,000,000 losses
to agricultural interest is the record of the
insects in the United States, and this does
not include damage done to ornamental
shrubbery, shade and forest trees.
	“The robin has also been marked for

[Column 3]
wholesale slaughter. One small town in
Tennessee sends each year to the market
enough to bring in $500, with the price at
5 cents a dozen—125,000 robins. The fact
that a particular bird is not wanted for the
time being, is no proof of its safety. As in
the case of the grebe, it may suddenly be
declared fashionable, and the grebe was
killed off by the thousands around the lakes
in Oregon.
	“Some birds are brought into the market
as an experiment. They are killed, not be-
cause there is a demand for them, but on the
chance that the demand may be created
This shows the danger in which every spe-
cies of finely plumaged bird stands until
legislation interferes. The question that
thousands of working people would be
thrown out of employment if the fancy
feather trade were taken from them has no
foundation.
	“This material gives less labor to the
working class than probably any other kind
of trimming that could be or would be em-
ployed in its place. The profit does not go
to pay the wages of a large number of
hands. It goes to the few firms who con-
duct the business. When the wild birds can
no longer be obtained, ostrich and poultry
feathers remain, and there can be no doubt
that the use of artificial flowers and berries
and of ribbon and fancy ornaments would
increase and give more employment in the
labor market than is now given by the wild
bird plumage. Mr. McClain, in his speech
before the senate in August, refers to the
persistency with which the milliners’ asso-
ciation circulated the idea of the artificial
osprey or egret plume. The feathers were
no longer to be labeled real. Assistants were
instructed to assure lady customers that
these delicate sprays were manufactured by
the millions out of quills, horse hair, and
other material, by an army of workers who
earned their living by this pleasant and ar-
tistic work.
	“The fraud flourished until 1908, when it
became evident that the force of mere repe-
tition which had proved so successful with
an uncritical public would not stand investi-
gation before a serious tribunal.
	“The invention of artificial ospreys was
discarded for that of molted feathers. The
sprays were admitted to be real, but it was
no longer cruel to wear real plumes. They
had simply been picked out of the nests
after the birds had raised their young and
left them. That is a myth. A few torn,
badly frayed plumes are occasionallly picked
up from the swampy breeding grounds that
have been shed after nesting, but these are
too poor to command any price. These
plumes or aigrettes are in effect the mar-
riage wing of the snowy heron, or egret.
They are sometimes called ‘the love feathers’
of the birds. The story of the aigrette trade
deals with the slaughter of the innocents by
the slow process of starvation, a method
which history shows has never been followed
by even the most savage race of men deal-
ing with their most hated enemies.
	“This war of extermination which has
been carried forward unchecked for years
could mean but one thing, namely, the rapid
disappearance of the egrets of the United
States. As nesting birds they have disap-
peared from New Jersey, Maryland, Vir-
ginia and also those states of the Mississippi
valley where at one time they were to be
found in great numbers. The efforts for the 
preservation of the egrets and herons are


[Column 1]
now being pushed with greater vigor than
ever before. These aigrettes, torn from the
back of the bird during the nesting season
only, now sell for twice their weight in gold.
From $32 to $80 an ounce. Remember, one
aigrette costs five lives—the mother bird
and the four nestlings. Robbing hen
roosts grades as a respectable occupation
compared with plume hunting. One
commercial plume hunter boasted of hav-
ing killed 125,000 birds. All the collec-
tions in this country, caged and stuffed, do
not count as many skins as are sold for mil-
linery in one London auction, and there are
several auctions in a year. The imports of
millinery feathers to this country alone are
valued at $11,000,000, while the valuation of
the diamond imports at the last census was
about $12,000,000.
	“In the southern part of our country a
few years ago there must have been 500
varieties of our daintiest bits of animate
feathered life, the humming bird. Only a
few varieties are seen now. Many winter in
Cuba or Mexico and along our western
coast. In Cuba, as well as in the United
States, the humming birds have been killed
off by the thousands to swell the London
feather trade. They sell from a fraction of
a cent to 2 cents apiece, and some unfortu-
nate with $10,000 too much money for his
own good paid that price recently in Paris
for a cloak made of humming-bird skins.
	“The King of the Cannibal Isles who re-
quested that humming birds’ tongues on
toast be served him for breakfast had noth-
ing over the wearer of the cloak. The an-
cient Mexicans looked upon the humming
bird as emblems of the soul, as the Greeks
did the butterfly, and held that the spirits
of their warriors who had died in defense
of their religion were transformed into these
most brilliant of living creatures, and yet
in later years these birds were marked out
for such slaughter. In Oregon only a short
time ago there were more Chinese pheasants
than there were in China itself, and yet in
Oregon recently 50,000 of these pheasants
were killed in a single day. The hunter has
pronounced the doom of the woodchuck,
and the milliner has sentenced the bluebird.
The passenger pigeon, once so plentiful, is
now absolutely extinct. If the rumor that
an Oregon university professor has discov-
ered the nesting places of a group of these
birds in her state be true, there will be great
rejoicing. The one live specimen in the Cin-
cinnati zoo died last summer. They used to
be butchered in their breeding places by the
wagon loads. It afforded plumage and
made rare sport.
	“On the Bahama islands and in Florida
were formerly large rookeries of the flamin-
go which are now nearly extinct, and great
numbers of the white ibis, which shared in
the popularity of its delicate plumage with
the egret.
	“If only we had had sufficient sentiment
to hold this bird sacred as the early Egyp-
tions did! Two thousand years ago it was
to commit murder to kill one of these birds
in Egypt. They symbolized the soul of a
departed.
	“This superstition of the Egyptians was
so strong that burial grounds were laid out
for the ibis, their bodies were embalmed,
wrapped in costly wrappings and placed in
pottery coffins. The jackal shared in the
reverence with the bird, as he was delegated
to accompany the soul of the departed on its
journey across the great desert to the final

[Column 2]
oasis, the jackal being the only creature
capable of finding its way across that great
trackless plain. Before the ibis and the
jackal start out across the desert, the soul
of the departed is weighed against an os-
trich feather, and if not found wanting in
the balance he is permitted to start on his
hunt for the oasis.
	“The government of India made the ex-
port of skins and plumes from India illegal,
and yet naturalists and others interested in
the matter saw that in spite of this prohibi-
tion the feathers of the birds peculiar to the
East Indies continued to be offered for sale
in London.
	“It was then learned that many cases were
imported as cow hair or horse hair, a layer
of horse hair covering perhaps thousands
of skins.
	“Yet back of the feather merchant and
plume hunter, who supply the skins, are the
men who make a fashion for women and
then impose it upon them subtly, irresistibly
	“The rebellion of Audubonists against
wanton waste of the prettiest thing in nature
ought to begin, it would seem, not in the
rookeries, not in boudoirs, not in milliners’
shops, not in feather dealers’ warehouses,
but in those lofts in Paris where modes of
headgear are designed and, by authority
more autocratic than a czar’s, more respect-
ed than a pope’s, are enjoined upon a civil-
ized woman as ‘the latest things.’
	“Who did kill Cock Robin?	Nobody
clamors for the distinction:
		“‘Not I,’ said the plumer,	
		‘It’s nothing but rumor.’
		‘Not I,’ said the birdman,
		‘I’m half brother to Pan.’
		‘Not I,’ said the seller,
		‘It’s some brutal feller.”
		‘Not I,’ said the hatter,
		‘See Paris in the matter.’
		‘Not I,’ said the cat,
		‘Would I ever do that?’
		‘Not I’ said the collector,
		‘I’m partly protector.’
		‘Not I,’ said the dame,
		‘’Twas dead when it came.’”


