OBITUARY.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister May Ash-
worth-Booth, passed by the Relief Society
Board of Utah stake, of which she was sec-
retary:


Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has, in His
infinite wisdom, taken from our midst our es-
teemed and dearly loved sister, May Ashworth-
Booth; and,
	Whereas, The intimate relation held during
a long period of time, by her, with the mem-
bers of this Board, makes it fitting that we re-
cord our appreciation of her; therefore,
	Resolved, That the wisdom and ability which
she has exercised in aid of our work by counsel
and service, will be held in grateful remem-
brance;
	Resolved, That the removal of our dear sister
from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all members of
the Board and its friends;
	Resolved, That with deep sympathy with the
afflicted relatives and friends of the departed,
we express an earnest hope, that even so great
a bereavement, may be overruled for their
highest good.
	That we unite our sentiments with our loved
sister Aretta Young, in her following tribute:

	Oh, Friend:
Thou hast too early gone to thy long rest:
Dear one, good-bye;
We would have kept thee,
(’Twas our hearts’ desire),
Within our domain here,
To make the world more dear,
More rich in friendship’s great bequest;
But thou didst tire
’Neath mortal pain and weariness,
And God hath called thee to thy rest:
	Beloved, farewell!

In grief our hearts are still,
He knoweth best, dear heart,
Bowed ’neath the Father’s will;
Why we should part;
And since thou'st passed the "Silence drear,”
Death’s gloom hath less of awesome fear—
The lonely pathway more of light;
Sweet friend,  good night.

	Sister Booth was born September 28,
1874, to Wm. and Mary E. Ashworth, in
Beaver, Utah. She graduated from the B.
Y. A. (now U.) in 1895; was married to
A. L. Booth of Provo in Salt Lake Temple,
in June, 1900; gave birth to five children,
three of which she laid away at birth. She
is survived by husband, two little daughters,
father, mother, six brothers, four sisters,
many other relatives and friends. She was
always a faithful worker in the Church.
	Died, Oct. 10, 1913, Provo, Utah. 
				ALICE T. BLAKE,
				EUNICE S. HARRIS,
				SARAH HOLDAWAY,
							Committee.


