TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Beloved Sisters:
	As we are now just entering the New
Year, 1914, it seems an appropriate time,
as it certainly is a pleasant duty, to wish
you a happy and prosperous year, coupled
with the hope that you, with us, will try to
make it the very best year that has ever
yet transpired for the Relief Society, as
well as for ourselves, our families and our
kindred.
	We are keenly sensible of and grateful
for your faithfulness and diligence in the
years that are past. But we also know that
we learn by doing; and we believe that
your past experiences have given you such
knowledge of the work that you are now
better qualified than ever before to attain
to excellence in all that pertains to our
great calling. These experiences qualify
you for improvement, in the greater under-
takings that now loom up before the society.
These are of such value and magnitude
that we cannot afford to let them pass.
Rich opportunities are offered for us to put
forth our best efforts; we are encouraged
to strive for the advancement of all that is
noblest and best, and should exert the
utmost diligence in the wide field of spir-
itual culture, thus making sure of the satis-
faction that comes from ministering to those
in need of kindly deeds and the sweet char-
ity that never faileth. The Savior is our
Pattern and Guide; and if we follow His
example and teaching we cannot fail to
meet with His favor and approbation.
	The education our sisters recieve in the
Relief Society is valuable beyond price. It
embraces many things not taught in col-
leges. We know whereof we speak when
we assert that the Relief Society, even back
in the past long before we had the many ad-
vantages we have at present, was a source
of higher education and benefit to those
who were faithful in its service and in the
duties and obligations connected with it,
than any or all other agencies within their
reach. The Relief Society has given to its
members a lofty sense of honor and a true
conception of the duties pertaining to the
activites of life and its value—all in such
sweet simplicity that every one could com-
prehend, through the spirit of our religion,
pure and undefiled. And we maintain that
no school of philosophy could have taught
so successfully as has our society, the science
of true charity and good fellowship to
women of different nations and different
temperaments, or could have created the
love and union that have existed in the so-
ciety throughout the Church of which our
sisters in this organization are for the most
part faithful members.
	We trust our sisters will not think we in-
dulge in a spirit of boasting. We have no
such thought. But having been acquainted
with the movement for many years, and
having personally known and labored with
all the former leaders who championed
Relief Society work from its very begin-
ing, we feel impressed by the dignity of

[Column 2]
this, the first woman’s organization in the
Church, and would like to awaken those
who are indifferent to its significance as a
school of spiritual and moral advancement.
As the years roll on, still greater achieve-
ments will be reached by those who shall
be identified as members with this society.
We feel perfectly sure that this will come
to pass. The assurance of its solidarity is
the harmony that has existed and does ex-
ist between its members in whatsoever land
they may be, or whence they may have come.
The material growth and enterprise mani-
fested during the past year seem in our esti-
mation to have surpassed the showing of any
year in our history. But we must not be
content with the progress made, we must
strive for more. We must each of us seek
for an increase of faith in our Heavenly
Father, and in the Gospel that has been re-
stored in this day and age. We must be
careful of our example in all that pertains
to our conduct and to our conversation and
lives. We must not only look to the ma-
terial well-being of our own households, but
must see to it that in the manners and cus-
toms of our homes and families we may be
examples worthy of imitation. There is
much to look forward to in the coming year.
Let us never lose sight of the high calling
to which we have been chosen, and set apart.
Let us seek to excell in all the virtues that
pertain to our work in charity, benevolence,
purity and uprightness, in our own lives, in
order that we may worthily seek out the
needy and unfortunate and stand firm
as the “Rock of Ages” for the truths
we have embraced--setting an example in
all things great and small, of which we
never need be ashamed.
	And now, beloved sisters, in closing, accept
this expression of our love and commenda-
tion for the great and good work you have
accomplished, not only in the past year, but
in all the years you have labored. Rest as-
sured that you will in no wise lose your re-
ward. May our Father in Heaven bless you
and yours, and prosper your endeavors in
whatever you undertake in the interest of
the society, and the enlightenment and bene-
fit of those with whom you labor.
“Cast your bread upon the waters, and
it will return after many days.”
				Faithfully yours,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
