mility, love, forbearance, charity and faith.
	The many friends of Miss Russell were
shocked to learn of her demise which oc-
curred Sunday the 28th of December, at
3 o’clock in Tucson, Arizona. One thing
which makes the death seem particularly
sad is the fact that in all probability, Miss
Russell was one of the victims of the Mexi-
can exodus. She, with her family were
very reluctant to leave their homes in Mex-
ico and notwithstanding the many and ur-
gent requests from friends and relatives in
Utah to give up their Mexican holdings
and come back they positively refused to
leave until forced to do so by the Mexican
outrages, only then going into Arizona with
full purpose of returning to Mexico when
conditions became more settled.
	Sarah E. Russell was the daughter of
Isaac and Mary Walton Russell, and was
born at Far West, Missouri, Aug. 12, 1840.
The family of Isaac Russell, with those of
John Taylor and Joseph Fielding, were con-
verted to the Church by Parley P. Pratt, in
the spring of 1836. John Taylor met Parley
P. Pratt at the home of Isabella Russell
Walton a sister of Isaac R. Russell, in Tor-
onto, and later, Mrs. Walton took Elder
Pratt to her brother Isaac, who resided on
his farm at Charletton’s settlement, now
Downsview, a few miles northwest of Tor-
onto. Isaac Russell and Joseph Fielding
owned adjoining farms in this village. They
both joined the Church under the ministry
of Elder Pratt, and were among the first
missionaries to Great Britain in the follow-
ing year, 1837, when the British mission
was opened at Preston, where Joseph Field-
ing had relatives. The first public sermon
in England was preached at the Cockpit at
Preston in July on the first Sunday after the
arrival of the elders in Great Britain. The
first baptisms were performed in the river
Ribble at Preston. Many converts were
made, and the Church was established in
the British Isles.

[Column 2]
	Isaac Russell’s family resided at Kirtland
during his absence and upon his return,
joined the Saints at Far West, where Sarah
E. Russell was born. The father died at
Richmond, Missouri, in 1884, at the age of
39, leaving his widow, Mary Walton and
six young children. The family remained
at Richmond until 1861, when they came
to Utah and settled in the Fifteenth ward of
Salt Lake City, where Sarah E. Russell
formed many, dear and lasting friendships.
In 1882, Miss. Russell accompanied her
younger sister, Isabella M. Johnson, to
Mesa, Arizona, and thence to Mexico. They
were residing in the valley of Chuichupa,
when the present revolution in Mexico com-
pelled them to abandon their homes, and they
came as refugees into Arizona, where they
have since resided.
	Sarah E. Russell is survived by her
youngest sister Isabelle M. Johnson, who
was with her at the hour of her death and
had been her inseparable companion in life;
and by the children of her deceased broth-
ers and sisters, George W. Russell, Mary
W. Gray, Samuel Russell and Ann Jane
Howley.
	It is the regret of her many friends in
this city that they have been separated
from her in the latter years of her life and
they could not be near her in the hour of
her departure. To them she will be of hal-
lowed memory.
	The last poem written by Miss Russell
(Hope) for the Exponent was descriptive
of the condition of the Mexican refugees
and most pathetic, however, one of her
most inspired poems we think is the one
on the front page of the present number,
which we reprint from an early paper so
like it is to her, whom we now mourn.


