IN SICKNESS.
	It is quite surprising how few young
women avail themselves of the opportunity
to learn anything about the care of the sick
and yet most of them expect to become
mothers and have the care and training of
little children. Probably ignorance has been
the cause of more suffering and death among
children than disease, and in this day there
is little excuse for such ignorance. Nearly
all the magazines contain articles for young
mothers and from the last number of
“Woman’s Magazine’’ we cull a few instruc-
tions prepared by a trained nurse. She
writes:
	“The dangers of contagious disease are
much increased by possible complications
and the serious effects that often follow. 
The early symptoms of many contagious dis- 
eases are those of a common cold and people
are thus exposed unawares. Children should
be taught never to kiss persons suffering
from colds, never to use the handkerchief
of another nor to drink from a common cup
or glass.
	“Should a child succumb to contagion,
isolate it in a large, well ventilated room,
free from draughts and accessible to sun-
shine, place the bed out in the room shaded


from strong lights and facing away from the
window.
	“Chicken pox appears about two weeks
after exposure, usually with slight fever.
There is an eruption within the first twenty-
four hours of crops of reddish pimples,
thickest on the back, which become blisters
in a day or so and scale off in a week.
	“Keep the child quiet in bed on a light
diet while the fever lasts and isolated until
the last scale has fallen. Inflamed eyes,
which often accompany this disease as well
as measles, should be guarded from bright
light and relieved by cold compresses. Ex-
posure after the disease often results in se-
vere bronchitis or pneumonia.
	“Measles develop about ten to fourteen
days after exposure, are very contagious,
and may be carried in the clothes.
	“The disease begins with red weeping
eyes, nasal discharge, dry cough and all the
symptoms of a severe cold. It is accom-
panied by fever, loss of appetite and on the
third or fourth day irregular patches of
small dark red raised spots appear first on
face, neck and arms, and later in trunk and
legs. There is also itching of the skin espe-
cially during peeling.
	“The child should be kept in bed until the
fever is over and the eyes carefully guarded
from strong light and bathe them three
times daily with boric solution. Cleanse the
nose and throat from discharges and do not
permit mouth breathing. The bowels should
be kept open, as the disease is partly thrown
off in that way.
	“The diet for a baby should be milk, for
older children fluids during the fever and
semi-solids later on.
	“Even the mildest cases should be rigidly
cared for, since eye, ear, nose and throat
troubles often complicate or follow measles.
It is advisable whenever a rash appears to
call in a physician or some one who can
accurately diagnose the case.”


