MARY E. LEIGHTNER.
	Another noble and true woman whose
death it is our sad duty to chronicle is Sis-
ter Mary E. Leightner, who died Dec. 17,
1913.
	Sister Leightner was born April 9, 1818,
in Lima, New York. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
fall of 1830, just six months after the
Church was organized, or at the time Oli-
ver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer and Zeba Pe-
terson came to Kirtland, Ohio,  and estab-
lished a branch of the Church. Father Mor-
ley was ordained an elder to preside over
this branch of the Church.
	Sister Leightner was one of those chosen
spirits who seemed called for the special
purpose to help in the building up of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. She
passed through all the trials and persecu-
tions of the Saints in Missouri and Illinois,
and with unfailing faith endured many
hardships. She was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph Smith before his death.
	Sister Leightner moved from Salt Lake
City to Minersville, Beaver county, Utah, in
1863, where she made her home until the
time of her death. Her funeral was large-
ly attended by friends who honored and
loved her good and noble work.
	At her funeral letters of condolence were
read from President Joseph F. Smith and
Stake President J. F. Tolton. There were
present at the funeral, twenty-one persons
who had attended school as students of
Sister Leightner. Bishop Marshall, Elders
Myers, Banks, Lee and Wood, also Sister
Sarah B. Gillins, spoke words of consolation
and told of the faithful and unselfish life
of the good woman. She lived a life it
would be well to emulate. So, one by one
are passing from earth those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and whose tes-
timonies of him and his mission are so
treasured by the Saints.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake held at Willard, Nov. 15th,
1913.
	President Sarah P. Stohl presided.
	Present, besides Relief Society Stake of-
ficers: President Oleen N. Stohl, Counselor
W. C. Horsley, Bros. Burt, Cook, and
Facer of the High Council. Bishops Wright
and Hubbard and several brethren from
Willard.
	President Sarah Stohl announced this
conference was held in honor of two of our
old sisters. Sister Nancy Whitaker, a mem-
ber of the first organization at Nauvoo, and
Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Brother
Elijah Fordham. Said this morning’s ses-
sion would be in honor of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	Opened with singing, “Praise to the
Man,” etc.
	Opening prayer, Bishop Brigham Wright.
	Singing, “Oh, give me back my Prophet
Dear.”
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and accepted.
	President Stohl was pleased to see such
a good crowd out this morning and that
the weather was so favorable; was pleased
to have the privilege of holding our confer-
ence here at Willard, and felt to appreciate

[Column 2]
the kindness and thank the sisters for their
invitation; appreciated the sisters of the
Stake Board and the work of the local of-
ficers; said we had held district conferences
in some of the wards and felt the work
was going on.
	Sister Mary Frodsham gave the 44th
chapter of the life of the Prophet, which
treats on the miraculous healing of Elijah
Fordham and others by the Prophet.
	Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Elijah
Fordham, bore her testimony, and gave in
detail the incident of the healing of her
father by the Prophet, said she knew the
Prophet, saw him taken to prison, and saw
his body when brought from Carthage, was
at the meeting, when the mantle of the
Prophet fell on Brigham Young, was thank-
ful to see this day, and if her testimony was
any good to strengthen the testimony of
any one, she wished to be of service;
thanked the Lord for her faith, and for His
blessings to her, and hoped she might ever
be found trying to serve the Lord.
	Brother George Harding had seen the
Prophet Joseph and remembered him quite
well; told how they used to hold meetings
in the grove, at Nauvoo; said the most im-
pressive things to him in connection with
the Prophet, was taking a message to him at
his home, and the fatherly talk, which he
gave him; spoke of his own baptism and
confirmation by Hyrum Smith; related an
incident just before the death of the Proph-
et. Bore his testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, and hoped we would
stand firm and steadfast to the principle
taught by him.
	The hymn, “The Seer,” was rendered by
Sister Lottie Owens.
	Sister Nancy Whitaker, one of the sis-
ters who belonged to the first Relief So-
ciety organized at Nauvoo. She told of
the work of the organization and the sew-
ing done, but on account of being rather
feeble, her age being nearly 94, her grand-
daughter, Martha Woodland, read her testi-
mony, which she had previously written
down, as she had told it.
	President Oleen N. Stohl had been very
interested in this meeting, and could not
help but say Joseph Smith was a prophet
of God; bore his testimony to the same; said
he was glad to say that those who would
accept the Gospel would have thep rivilege
of bearing this testimony; said if we have
faith and can live the Gospel we can have
the privilege given us to do all the things
required of us; spoke on the growth of this
Church, especially in the organization of
the Relief Society, and the inspiration of
Joseph Smith to organize it, said if you
want to be happy, do something in the
Church, and if you don’t accept this mis-
sion you will never feel good; encouraged
all to work and know for themselves that
this gospel is true; spoke on tithing and
keeping the Sabbath day holy, and other
laws of God, and the blessings received by
keeping them; said, Let us work for the
service of God each day, and put the best
we have into it. Bore a strong testimony
to the power of God in his own behalf, and
felt he could not appreciate the blessings of
the Lord enough. God bless you, my sis-
ters; I feel your hearts are in the work.
	President Sarah Stohl was thankful for
the presence of so many of the brethren;
said the afternoon session would be devoted
to Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.


Sister Agnes Owens, president of Willard
Relief Society, felt to welcome all, and
wished all to stay to lunch.
	Singing, Doxology.
	Prayer, Brother Wm. Facer.
	Afternoon Session.
	Singing, ‘I’ll Serve the Lord while I am
Young.”
	Opening prayer, Sister Jane Owens.
	Sister Lula B. Call read and explained
the song, “Oh, my Father,” which was af-
terwards sung by the congregation.
	Roll call showing 260 members present,
the stake board answering, by sentiments
from Sister Snow’s poems and sayings.
Minutes of previous afternoon conference
read and approved.
	Sister Stohl hoped the same good spirit
which had been with us this morning would
stay with us this afternoon; wished to thank
the sisters of Willard for the splendid lunch,
and pleasant noon hour.
	Sister Rachel Evans gave a sketch of the
life of President Eliza R. Snow Smith.
	The hymn, “The trials of the present day,”
was sung as a duet by Sisters Eliza White
and Alice Nebeker.
	Five minute reports were given, on sew-
ing done, nights spent with sick, quilts
made, means gathered for wheat, and other
items for six months, by the secretaries of
the following associations: Willard, Perry,
Harper, Third and Fourth Wards of Brig-
ham City.
	The “Hymn, “The Lord has imparted
from above,” was sung as a solo, by Sister
Della Nuttal.
	Reports continued, Brigham City First
and Second Wards, Bear River City and
Honeyville.
	Sister Mosiah Evans of the Bear River
Stake Relief Society, was pleased to be
here today, and visit with us in the confer-
ence; said she had heard much today that
would increase her faith; thought the tes-
timonies of those old sisters was a great tes-
timony to us; felt we ought to be so thank-
ful that we belong to the Relief Society, and
may we be inspired to go on and lead bet-
ter lives was the blessing she asked for all.
	Bishop Jos. Hubbard said it had been a
day of rejoicing to him, in listening to the
program and the testimonies of the sisters.
Felt it an honor to have this conference
held here and felt to extend a glad wel-
come to all; felt this conference would do
much good in helping to create interest in
this work.
	President Stohl was sorry the time was
so short, as we could not hear from all we
would have liked to hear from; said Presi-
dent Stohl wished her to express his appre-
ciation for the welcome extended to us;
was pleased with the reports, but felt there
was room to do better. Let us put forth our
very best efforts to further this work.
Wished again to thank the sisters and may
the Lord bless all.
	Singing, “Truth Reflects upon Our
Senses.”
	Benediction, Patriarch Edwin Cordon.
		SARAH P. STOHL, President.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Secretary.


