WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A SKETCH.
	[The following article was read by the
author before the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, Jan. 7, and by unanimous resolution
of the members present, its publication was
requested in this issue of the EXPONENT.]

	The maples on the mountain sides are
turning golden, the great Artist of the sea-
sons is arraying in a carnival of colors the
landscapes for their autumn holidays, be-
fore they shall be clothed in their winter
robes of snow.
	And this calls to mind the maples of far
away on the rugged, ocean-voiced coast of
the Atlantic, where lie the New England
States, where Prophet and Patriarch, also
many of the first born of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, were born and
baptized into His Church.
	There, on February 29th, 1828, at Peters-
ham, Worcester County, Massachusetts,
was born Emmeline B. Wells, the subject
of this sketch, amid the grandeur of ocean
and mountain scenes, amid the environ-
ments of patriotism, religious influences,
cultured associations, hereditary endow-
ments and highest ideals of home and wom-
anhood.
	With her spiritual eyes fixed upon the ex-
emplers of her progenitors, and the awak-
ening of new ideals possible in the near fu-
ture, grew to maidenhood this gleaner of
sheaves of knowledge, which should become
her principal and bear interest of intellec-
tual riches and influence in the years to
come; also a queenly place and power in the
kingdom yet to be; that kingdom yet a
dream of the future to all earth’s wisest
scholars and worshippers; a hope and dream,
to all the world, save to the youthful
Prophet—Joseph Smith.
	It was in July, 1859, that I first met Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, at the old Wells House
where the Templeton now stands. At that
time I had no idea that the introduction
meant a future acquaintance and associa-
tion; it seemed merely a social formality,
for in the days when I was a young lady,
such as I, were supposed to profit by listen-
ing to the conversations of their elders.
However, having been acquainted with a
mutual friend, Mrs. Ellen McGary, first in
San Bernardino, California, and later in
Beaver, Utah, who had often spoken of her
old friend Emmeline, her personality, and
abilities, I felt somewhat acquainted, even
at the respectful distance I occupied. So
several years passed by and although I be-
came better acquainted with some of the
daughters of General D. H. Wells, and
their mothers, it was not until Sister Emme-
line B. Wells was called to occupy the edi-
torial chair of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
that I was drawn nearer to her through my .
labors as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and the semi-monthly meet-
ings in the Fourteenth Ward, and an occa-
sional contribution to the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. 
	From the beginning of our acquaintance
(after it became such) I have felt a partic-
ular special attraction in her personality, her
face and figure (I’ve never seen a photo-
graph or a painted portrait that did her jus-
tice), her type of mind, practical versatility,
her fund of information and her history
with the Church; but—all of these not ex-
pressing certain qualities which make the
woman, I mean as she is to me personally,
I can sum it up best thus: It’s the New
England of it. You may study and under-
stand it, if you are New England born (as
I was: in Boston).
	No matter where you were born, dear
reader, you know that the spirit of your
native land still claims its kinship with you
wherever else you may hereafter dwell, or
what cause you may espouse; and though
the Gospel makes of us all strangers hereto-
fore, one family of one Father.
	When I heard of the accession of Emme-
line B. Wells to the presidency of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, throughout the world, I
said: That is as it should be. There is no
one else so well qualified to fill that posi-
tion. Sister Wells has been with the Relief
Society as member and later as secretary
(you might say historian) through its up-
ward growth till she knows every branch of
its genealogical tree, and all the fruits it
has borne; she could give you the figures.
	Was she not beside “Aunt Eliza,” “Aunt
Zina,” and “Sister Bathsheba,” ever ready
with her invaluable aid? Did they not know
her thoroughly, her reliability and accuracy
in every detail? Her promptness to serve
and rejoice in serving? And did they not
love her? Did she not share the exodus
with them and bury her dead as they did,
outside their beloved Nauvoo, and traverse
with them that memorable march from civ-
ilization to the shores of the Dead Sea of
America? Fitting it is, that Emmeline B.
Wells should unveil the Sea Gull Monu-
ment, for she was here when they, the
heaven-sent birds, halted the impending
famine.
	Has she not, through the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, given voice to her sisters and kept
record of their progress?
	Though her ideal in journalism would
have been a magazine of high character, she
has faithfully labored with the lesser publi-
cation because it was needed, and the “sis-
ters’” resources were limited to this at the
present.
	Some of America’s great men have been
compared to the “mighty oak,” “the tower-
ing pine,” etc.
	Because Emmeline B. Wells was New
England born, and because she was born in
Massachusetts, where, in the days of her
girlhood, the sugar maple was perhaps of
more importance than any other tree (to
the mothers), in my own heart I select the
sugar maple as her emblem. Is it not ap-
propriate?
	Did it not give the sweetening that was
needed to the Puritan housewives? And it
was not passed under government inspec-
tion to prove its purity; and who cared then
what other countries made sugar, or if they
made it cheaper and wanted to send it here


on the “free list” and upset all our home
sugar factories?
	No, each neighbor owned his own sugar
plant on his own farm, and had his “sugar
making” time undisturbed and unlimited in
supply, and what an occasion sugar making
was, and what other sugar or syrup can
taste better? It needed no protecting “trade
mark,” the color and the odor verified its
individuality among the sweets.
	What other tree has such autumn leaves,
that everyone wants to gather and press,
and keep, or to decorate the home with, as
the sugar maple? Of course, other states,
north and south, have the sugar maple, but
it is of the trees of her state and herself that
I am writing.
	Sweetness from its heart in the early
spring time (She was born just before those
camp fires in the woods were lighted, and
men and maidens bore the wooden buckets
of maple sap to the huge kettles that were
kept boiling day and night.)
	Wealth of color and beauty in its falling
leaves in autumn, its latest gift to rich and
poor alike, it is like her. Has she not given
the sweetness of her best years and now, in
the autumn of her life, are not her leaflets
of thought bright and treasured?
	O you artists of gloomy canyons, torrid
deserts, ocean sunsets and moonlights, and
every other kind of picture—who has ever,
who is going to immortalize himself by a
picture of a ‘sugar camp” among the maple
trees and the nut trees, while the snow may
still be seen in the untrampled background?
It is one of America’s chief assets, and dear
to so many hearts. There are the mighty,
protecting forest branches overhead, the fire
lights and the faces, the industry itself with-
out the beauty? destroying smoke stacks and
noise of the machinery, in the primeval for-
est.
	It is grand to have been born there, and
of those ancestors. Blended in her fragile
women is the heritage of those men and
women who counted no sacrifice as too
great for religious and political freedom;
who had braved the rigors of climate, the
Indians and the perils of the Atlantic coast,
for the lives of those who went down to
the sea in ships has been closely interwoven
through the character of all who dwelt in
the New England States.
	Why, then, should she not be the woman
that she is, with the Gospel to lead her? 
	Who among us, though, is better pre-
pared like her, to meet the representative
women of the world, no matter what their
great work or station?
	Emmeline B. Wells, as ambassadress of
the women of Zion, would be bearer of
credentials, the highest that could be be-
stowed, because she is in the service, not of
any earthly potentate, but in the service of
the Church and kingdom of our Father and
His Son Jesus Christ. 
	May her example be a stimulus to the
daughters of Zion to attain unto the call of
the future to each and every one of us in
our place and calling; and may her pres-
ence be among us still for many years to
come.
	With love and respect,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, Oct. 4th, 1913.


