[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 927 | General Feature | Something Different for Your Home; | ]
(continued on page 934) 925 wr Something Different For Your Home Arrangements by Florence G. Williams () The covers for these delightful pillows were crocheted by Kate Schleich. Sister Williams thought up the idea of applying the brightly colorful figures of yarn. These made delightful Christmas gifts for her grandchildren. (} A lovely arrangement of petunias in a Sevres (a rare French) bowl graced the piano of the Williams home at Christmastime. The gold angel and scented candle symbolized the season. Such arrangements can be made easily by purchasing a certain product from a floral shop, putting it in the bottom of the vase or bowl, soaking it with water, and arranging the flowers to suit one's taste. (J A delightful arrangement of wheat and nuts graced the door of the lovely Gilbert Williams home in Salt Lake City, Utah, at Thanksgiving time. The squirrels are handmade of wood and were a gift to Sister Florence Williams. She gathered the wheat and purchased the nuts. TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Se - TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Center, as Lucia, Carol Wiberg. Among the other singers: Marianne Brattos; Jean Brattos; Dianne Carlson; Marianne Bryggman; Anna Neilson; Kristina Neilson; Nonica Ouzounian; Sonya Ouzounian; De-Ann Wood.

served every imaginable purpose. He has cut blocks in all sizes and shapes, built work benches, bulletin boards, and other household accessories. My contributions include stuffed animals, rag dolls, bean bag toys, special dresses or costumes, hand puppets, and similar items. Our children's accomplishments show real imagination, and they improve continually. Celebrating Christmas this way means burning the midnight oil every night for weeks. It means tolerating horrible messes from cookie decorating, salt clay, and other projects. Projects are in various stages of completion and must be stored everywhere. Boxes of scraps, spools, detergent and bleach bottles, pop bottle caps, and numerous other things are stacked high in storage, awaiting time for construction. The ironing doesn't always get done, and the house seems to be in utter chaos, and Christmas morning finds us physically exhausted, but spiritually refreshed. We strive to remember the true meaning of Christmas, and to give thanks for the birth of the Savior, together, as a family united. Eos HOMEMADE DOLL TREE (color picture on page 917) Picture below shows detail of doll costumes JM. Heslop Delila Burgess Eagar, Eagar Ward, St. Johns Stake, Arizona, has won blue ribbons for her quilts, rugs, crocheted tablecloths, doilies, stuffed toys, pillows, and pillowslips. Her greatest concern is keeping her hands busy. Sister Eagar designs her own quilts, and has donated countless numbers to Relief Society. Her six children, twelve grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren are recipients of many lovely articles; while her relatives who came before her are benefiting from the countless hours she spends on genealogy and temple work. Sister Eagar has served as Relief Society president, on the stake board, as a class leader - for most of the classes, as a secretary, and a visiting teacher, as well as in responsible positions in other auxiliaries of the Church. Fe. 7 Bt oe and Se Vera King, Price Sixth Ward, North Carbon Stake, Utah, is adept at all kinds of handiwork. Her quilts and aprons are the most popular bazaar items. She is an inspiration to all, for she is never idle. She designs quilts which delight her seven children, twenty grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren, and her many friends. She couldn't even begin to count the number of quilts she has completed. In Relief Society Sister King has served as a counselor and as a visiting teacher. She is always on hand to help at any task which might be undertaken in the ward, and her attendance at Relief Society is regular and enthusiastic. 937 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 102— Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings. INTRODUCTION The Doctrine and Covenants gives direction to the fulfilling of the Lord's promises unto the ancient prophets. The importance of this book in the plan of salvation was given at the November 1831, conference of the Church, in the following words of the Prophet Joseph Smith:... Being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing that the keys of: the mysteries of the kingdom of our Savior are again entrusted to man; and the riches of eternity within the compass of those who are willing to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God—therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally. 938 In appreciation for the books of scripture received from the Lord by that time, the following was also indicated by that conference: The great benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations which the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 235-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) THE SALVATION OF MEN IN THIS WORLD Among the reasons for the evaluation that Joseph Smith had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any other, except Jesus, was his bringing "... Forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants. " (D&C 135:3.) As a modern book of revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants is directed to the people of this generation. It is the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ revealing the way of salvation, both in this life and in the world to come. There are three ways in which the Doctrine and Covenants