[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 928 | General Feature | Swedish Lucia Queen; | ]
Swedish Lucia Queen and Attendants (} Each year in the Swedish Branch of the Church in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Lucia festival is held. In Sweden this is known as Little Christmas, and is held on the 13th of December, the longest night of the year in Scandinavia. Lucia means Festival of Light, and is symbolic of the triumph over darkness. The Lucia Queen is the Queen of Light, and spreads cheer and light throughout the villages, with the help of her attendants. The candles are of course symbolic, and this crown is imported from Sweden. Part of the festival includes a parade through the building, and lovely music. Following the celebration, there are refreshments and a visit from Saint Nicholas.

927 Swedish Cookery For Christmas Darlene C. Dedekind Member, General Board of Relief Society L) A typical Swedish holiday meal would be aptly termed a feast. Many varieties of seafood make up the first course. This is followed by baked ham and red cabbage, which is followed by meat balls and various kinds of cheeses. The main course of the meal is Lutfisk, a_ traditional Swedish dish served with potatoes and a white sauce. Lutfisk is available in package form in many import stores. Rice pudding is the popular dessert for such a feast, and there are several interesting customs surrounding it. Among these is that one almond is included in the recipe, and the person who gets this will be married within the year. This person is not to tell 928 MODEL NANCY ANN JOHANSSON Swedish cookery for Christmas that he or she has it, but the excitement runs so high among the single girls, it is nearly impossible to keep it a secret. Before eating the rice pudding, each person is supposed to say a little rhyme he or she has made up, then light a candle. The first candle that burns down indicates that person has been naughty during the year. Following the feast, Santa Claus generally appears and the delightful festivities of Christmas begin. The straw animals in the picture are traditional Swedish decorations. SWEDISH MEAT BALLS 1 lb. Ground beef 1 tsp. Nutmeg or ¥/, tsp. Allspice Y, c. Fine bread crumbs 2 tbsp. Shortening 1 egg 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine 2, tsp. Salt I 2-3 tbsp. Flour 1, tsp. Pepper 1 ¥, c. Beef broth or consommé Combine ground beef (the Swedish put the beef through a meat grinder three times), bread crumbs, egg, salt, and pepper, and nutmeg or allspice (optional). Mix well and make into 1-inch meat balls with firm hand-pressure. Let stand in bowl one hour. Brown meat balls in shortening, remove from pan. Add butter or margarine to the pan in which the meat balls were browned, and when butter has melted add flour. Blend. Add beef broth or consommé and bring to a boil. Add meat balls, cover pan, and simmer over low heat for 114 hours, or may be put into a baking dish and cooked in a 325° oven for 1'/, hours. RHUBARB KRAM 5 or 6 stalks rhubarb 1 c. Sugar 2 c. Water 2 tbsp. Cornstarch Cook the rhubarb in the water and sugar until soft but not mushy. Add cornstarch which has been dissolved in 2 tbsp. Of cold water. Stir while cooking until the sauce thickens to the desired consistency. Pour into a bow! Which has been rinsed in hot water. Serve with plain or whipped cream. SWEDISH KRINGLE Dough 1 c. Butter or substitute 2 tbsp. Cold water 1 c. Unsifted flour Cut butter into flour and add water. Divide into two pieces and place on an ungreased cookie sheet. Pat each piece of dough into a 3 to 4-inch strip the length of the cookie sheet (12-14 inches). Filling ¥, c. Butter or substitute 3 eggs lc. Water VY, tsp. Almond extract lc. Unsifted flour Bring butter and water to a boil. While boiling, add unsifted flour all at once and stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan. Remove from heat. Add eggs, one at a time, stirring until smooth. After third egg has been added, add almond extract and spread over the two strips of dough. Bake 40 minutes in a 350° oven. Remove the kringle from the oven and let cool for only a few minutes and then ice with the following: Icing 1 c. Powdered sugar 1 tbsp. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Butter Y, tsp. Almond extract Delicious served while still warm. 

929 December 1969

 WALDORF SALAD 1 c. Mayonnaise lc. Pineapple tidbits 1 c. Whipped cream 2 c. Finely diced celery 2 c. Diced apples. ¥/, c. Walnut pieces Mix the mayonnaise and whipped cream together. Fold in fruit and celery. Add nuts, saving some for garnish. Chill. SWEDISH COOKIES 1 c. Butter 2 tbsp. Cold water 6 tbsp. Powdered sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Sifted cake flour 11,, c. Pecans, broken Cream sugar and butter well. Add flour and water alternately. Add vanilla and pecans. Roll into small balls and bake on an ungreased cookie sheet for 1 hour or until lightly browned in a 950° oven. Remove from cookie sheet and roll in powdered sugar, or put powdered sugar in a paper sack, put six to eight cookies at a time into the sack. Shake gently. Continue until all cookies are covered with powdered sugar. CHRISTMAS GINGER SNAPS (Pepperkakor) 2/, ¢, shortening 21, c. Sifted all-purpose flour 3/, c. Light brown sugar 1 tsp. Baking soda firmly packed 1 tbsp. Cinnamon 2 tbsp. Molasses 11, tsp. Cloves, powdered 3 tbsp. Water 1 tsp. Ground cardamon seeds 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly. Add molasses, water, and lemon rind. Sift flour with baking soda and spices. Add to creamed mixture a little at a time. Blend well. Cover bowl and chill. When thoroughly chilled, flour hands and turn dough onto a floured surface. Roll very thin and cut with floured cookie cutter into desired shapes. Bake on a greased cookie sheet at 350° for 8 to 10 minutes. Makes approximately 5 dozen cookies. By adding more flour (3, to 1 c.) to the cookie recipe, the dough can be rolled into balls in the palm of your hand, then rolled in granulated sugar, an almond placed on top, and baked. If desired, spread the warm rolled cookies with the following icing. These cookies are a part of the Swedish Christmas tradition. 1 lb. Confectioners sugar 1 tbsp. White vinegar 3 egg whites Beat egg whites slightly with a fork. Add sugar and beat with an electric mixer on the. Lowest speed for one minute. Add vinegar and beat for 2 more minutes at high speed, or until fluffy and glossy. RICE PUDDING 6c. Water sugar, to taste 2c. Rice almond extract, to taste 2-3 cans evaporated milk vanilla, to taste 1 pint whipping cream, whipped Add the rice to the boiling water and cook until soft. Add canned milk, and season with sugar, almond extract, and vanilla. Fold in whipped cream, one almond (if desired), and chill. 930 Swedish Cookery for Christmas FRUIT SOUP (Fruktsoppa) Y/, lb. Seedless raisins ¥/, ce. Cinnamon candies or Y, Ib. Prunes 1 stick cinnamon /, lb. Dried apricots VY c. Sugar 2 apples 8-10 cooked plums 2 slices lemon 2 cooked (canned) peaches 2 slices orange 3 quarts of liquid (water and any 4 tbsp. Tapioca juice from the canned fruits) Wash raisins, prunes, and apricots and soak overnight in the water and juice. To this add apples, peeled and sliced, lemons and orange slices, tapioca, sugar, and broken cinnamon stick or cinnamon candy. Simmer for 1, hour. Add cooked fruit which has been sliced. Let stand for 3 to 4 hours to mellow. Serve hot or cold, with or without cream. CHRISTMAS TREASURE CHESTS (continued from page 923) JEWEL CASE FOR A LADY Materials needed 1 box of your choice either old or new, with or without drawers Y, pint gesso (a type of Latex paint) 1 pint satin finish lacquer (20 minutes drying time) small tubes artists' oil color in desired shade plus white Dutch gold (gold leafing sheets) gold leaf size and antiquing glaze old-fashioned print lace medallions and trim (new or antique) Step 1. Select box (remove any knobs on the box) a. If old finish, sand to smoothness ready for new finish. B. If new wood, sand lightly, apply 1 coat of lacquer to seal the wood. Step 2. Apply lace using a good quality glue. Move lace around until you have a pleasing design. Step 3. Apply several coats of gesso. The purpose is to fully permeate the lace and make it hard enough not to absorb further coats of finish. Be sure to dry thoroughly between coats. Step 4. Apply color. A high grade satin finish lacquer that takes about 20 minutes to dry is best. Mix with artist's oil paints to the desired shade. Prepare sufficient paint to cover the surface at least four times. Apply two to three coats to whole box, lace and all, allowing time for thorough drying between each coat. Step 5. Following directions for gold leafing, apply gold to lace area. When size is almost dry (about 40 minutes) apply the gold leaf and make no attempt to remove the loose excess gold until dry (overnight). Next day remove extra gold with a clean dry brush, seal with one coat of lacquer, smooth the edges of gilt area with a light touch-up of color. Step 6. The print selected is cut to fit the area and carefully glued into place, being careful to squeeze out any air bubbles from under the paper (I used only the center from an 8 x 10 print and cut it to fit the round section). When glue is thoroughly dry apply multiple coats of lacquer to picture face. Since this picture was bordered with lace, forming a dike, I was able almost to puddle the lacquer and let it dry overnight. 931 le at craft Stores with 7,-inch lowered Surface in jig Hinges Clasp Plastic mold nd resin fy. Craft Supply h 80ld leaf (Dute gold) 7/> pint Sat Ish lacquer (20 Minutes drying time) in artist's Colors—mix to Color of lightest Shade in Wood /2 Pint wo one glaz €cals of Coats o arms or drawings Of same Step ] Cast three Plastic "carvings" according to resin Ostructions and place leve] In a Well-ventilated room to Cure. (We Will make im hink ¢ € decals Te carved oF Wood.) € sure t¢ Paper Containers and discardable Ixer, Be Prepared for the Strong smell whic accompanies the cur § period Step 2 Arrange Plastic Sections on box lid If they don 't quite fit, use a file to Smooth hem. § off any Sharp edges and 8lue in Place Step 3. Seal €Xposed Sections with lacquer. Whe TY, apply 80ld leaf to these areas Dry completely and sea With clear lacquer Step 4. Mix lacquer With oj] colors Sections tw ) Wood color. Paint Plastic Step 5. Appl decals oy 8lue p nts to gold leaf Surface ure air bubbles are Squeezed out from under the designs. Dry, an Seal with ¢ ear lacqu Step 6. Apply Wood tone aze liberally to whole Surface €n partly dry, use rubber Bloves and Cheesec] th or Paper towels ¢ Wipe off aze. On Plastic areas wipe back and fort leayj 8 glaze Streaked Over hig relief area © 81Ve effect of wood &rain. In €xDOsed Sections carefully reveal just the esign through he glaze Let dr Step 7. Lacquer will lift the gl gold areas it i » USe it lightly to and Clasp and ]j More shine to the ©@8es around design. I Vet. I 932 A Thing of Beauty is a Joy A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY—Candles of Elegance (continued from page 919) lighted with the results of this interesting and rewarding project that many additional ones were made to be given as Christmas gifts. Wouldn't you like to make one for your home or for a very special Christmas gift? Here are the instructions: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ALL VARIETIES The bases can be purchased from a wood turning shop or most carpenters can make any design you wish. A great variety is possible. Those shown in the pictures ranged from eight to thirty-two inches in height. Fill in any visible cracks. Lightly sand base with either 00 steel wool or fine sandpaper. Apply a sealer coat and let dry for 10 to 12 hours. INSTRUCTIONS FOR WOOD STAINED CANDLESTICK 1-inch paint brush soft cloths wood stain antique glaze Apply stain with small soft cloth, allow to stand for 45 minutes. Rub off excess stain with another soft cloth. If a darker shade is desired, apply stain again in the same manner. Dry thoroughly Apply antique glaze with small brush, let stand for 2 or 3 minutes, wipe off as much as you wish for desired effect. ENAMELED CANDLESTICKS 1 small can enamel paint in color of your choice 1 1-inch brush Apply several coats, allow sufficient time between each coat to dry thoroughly. Sand lightly between each coat. As many as five coats may be needed for a satisfactory finish. These are very attractive done in decorator colors, orange, green, pink, blue, red, etc. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ANTIQUED CANDLESTICKS Flat paint in any color of your choice or small can Bisque Wax (ceramic paint) may be used in its stead. (This paint is very economical, easy to handle, and comes in many colors.) 1 1-inch paint brush small can dull varnish antique glaze Sister Ogden makes her own glaze which she finds very easy to handle and is low in cost: 3 tsp. Turpentine 1 tsp. Linseed oil 1 tbsp. Tube coloring, either raw umber, cool color, burnt umber, warm color ° Cover candlestick base with 2 coats of either the flat paint or Bisque Wax. Allow to dry thoroughly after each coat. Apply 1 coat antique glaze. Let stand for two to five minutes. With soft cloth or toilet tissue remove as much as you wish for highlighting. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Let dry for 2 to 3 days. Cover with dull varnish, let dry for 12 hours. If you choose gold as the color, a special paint is needed. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Be sure to stir thoroughly before using and handle with great care since gold has a tendency to lift. For decoration, cut styrofoam to desired size, carving out center to hold candle. Spray with green paint. Place atop candlestick base. Dip _ flowers, greens, or fruit stems in glue and then insert into styrofoam as you desire. Now sit back and enjoy these things of beauty. 

933 December 1969

 WORKING WITH KNIT FABRICS (continued from page 925) folds of the tubing, pinning carefully, and cut out. This materia] must be handled carefully so as not to stretch it. MYRENE ALVORD'S "NO-KNIT" AFGHAN o1aaads Tassels for Afghan Cut cardboard according to length of tassel. Wrap yarn around length of cardboard about 35 times. Double string twice, making 4 strands. Do not cut. Put strands, under yarn-ends, through double loop as slipknot. Remove cardboard. Slip pencil under knot. Bring cut ends under pencil and wrap around tassel 4 times. Tie securely. Remove pencil and cut 2nds of tassel. CUO A UU UU AT ts AAT TAD ULEAD PLEX ET YVIVYATIIYYELITYY YOYITITYIIYEYE YY YTV TEE ALD Naa eGR baa RLETLINAA ELEN) OO YY Ve) COLE TTT! Celebrating Christmas Without Going Into Debt CELEBRATING CHRISTMAS WITHOUT GOING INTO DEBT (continued from page 918) Finding the names of people who might not have a pleasant Christmas, and sharing with them, has brought unspeakable joy and insight to our family. Time after time my children have demonstrated unselfishness, and have put other people's happiness before their own desires. Such times make a parent's heart burst with pride. To develop fully a child's imagination, toys should be interchangeable. Therefore, a truck should not look too much like a truck. It should quickly convert to a bus, fire engine, moving van, or any other four-wheeled conveyance. With this in mind, Tom, my husband, has built ride-in box carts that have