[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 902 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
[Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out]

Approximately another 1700 hold commercial licenses, while an additional 500 are licensed flight instructors. The airlines do not hire women as air transport pilots. Mrs. Roxa Wright, Woman's Day needlework editor and herself a needlework designer, collected for the New York Hallmark Gallery's spring exhibit of America's needlework: past and present, many rare and breath-takingly beautiful items. Some, lent by museums and historical collections date from early eighteenth century. Embroidery, appliqué, elaborate petit-point, crochet, all kinds of handwork embellished utilitarian objects, and clothes demonstrate touchingly the skills of many countries and a depth and breadth of aesthetic feelings. Mrs. Lois Arnow and Mrs. Mary B. Kadesch are ''plant librarians' at the University of Utah Herbarium, a plant reference library. The library furnishes information on many species of plants, identifies poisonous plants, edible and non-edible plants, and supplies data for medical research, as well as aiding air pollution experts and police officers and others in the identification of narcotic specimens. 901 Ruth C. ITkerman utting the bright red ribbon to tie the holly paper covered box holding Christmas tree shaped cookies, my friend remarked to me: "It used to be that Christmas was a day. Now. Christmas is a season." We reflected together on these words as we continued wrapping gifts for a committee to take to anumber of senior citizens in our area. As I reached for the box of silver stars to fasten the foil paper, I remembered back to the silver star on top of the community Christmas tree when I was small. How eagerly we anticipated the surprises of that wonderful day of Christmas, living fully for one joyous day, remembering it for a whole year. In that moment of remembrance, I was glad that Christmas has been extended into an abundantly full season. How rich in friendship and fellowship and sharing is all the year because of active participation in a season of Christmas. Trading of news and recipes is part of the Christmas season. One of the richest gifts I ever received for my kitchen came from a friend who lives in a convalescent home for the aged. She took time to copy from her re- 902 tired missionary friends, who lived there, the various recipes from countries where they had served. Just a step away from comparing recipes to the art of learning how to decorate differently for the Christmas season. Greenery and shrubbery which seem so familiar they are almost prosaic take on new luster when sprayed with gold or silver paint. Men who have never made an artistic design in their lives find it an absorbing hobby to see what they can do with the humble tumbleweed to turn it into a miniature Christmas tree. Closely allied to this discovery of new talents in decorating is that of learning to express tastes through gift wrapping of packages. None of us can excel at everything, and if we decide we do not like to make fancy bows, we can learn to tie with red string or yarn, while the season of Christmas gives us a chance to try out our skills. This is an opportunity for husband and wife to learn to work together in new ways, perhaps in painting a little red wagon, or enameling tins to hold cookies. Making things by hand helps to restore some of the joy of simplicity in Christmas planning, and one of the new ways in which this is expressed is through use of photography. Pictures enable a family to make a gift showing their most precious possessions, their children. How eagerly we open the cards which seem destined to contain pictures of children and grandchildren. These seem to arrive in the mail earlier every year, a part of the trend of making a season of Christmas. This fellowship by mail is a good supplement to the companionship in person as evidenced by invitations to an open house. Certain good friends in our community I do not see socially more than at Christmastime when their homes are opened to many friends. Yet the whole Christmas season is blessed when their invitations arrive for sharing "at home" courtesies. We enjoy their sandwiches and cookies, and may see the first candy canes of the season hanging from the limbs of the refreshment table tree. One of the things we talk about during the social hour is the Christmas music to be presented soon. We discuss the annual Christmas festival of music held at the nearby university, and to which friends from out of town always make a pilgrimage, and where we have a chance to say "hello." Not to be forgotten are the great gifts of Christmas music and drama offered by radio and television, for the Christmas season is universal in its appeal, cutting across boundaries of race and economic situation. With all of these shared attractions, it is time to plan for the A Season of Christmas Christmas dinner and the day itself, within the walls of the home. Places are set for loved ones and perhaps a friend who would be lonely without this special invitation. The new doll is rocked, and the bicycle taken for its first ride, in homes where there are children. Older members open a book, but it may not be read fully because of happy memories which intrude. Voices of the carolers who stopped by to sing in this block echo in my heart, interrupted by the paper carrier at the door who wants to say "thank you"' for his new pencil set. Perhaps there is time to take all the family in the automobile out beneath the stars to see the specially decorated Christmas trees nearby. Maybe there is an annual contest for the best outdoor decorations, and spotlights will be focused on a painted manger scene beneath a picture window. But all the houses seem to be specially decorated, each in its own way, significant tributes to the birthday of a King. I think also of the homes far away from which messages of love and affection have come through the mail, and visualize the lights in their windows across mountains and oceans. The lights will not go out at the end of Christmas night. For it is the custom to extend decorations through to the coming of the New Year, and perhaps to Twelfth Night, as was done in earlier centuries.