[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 924 | General Feature | Treasure Chests For Christmas, Johna de St. Jeor; | ]
Treasure Chests For Christmas Johna de St. Jeor, Member, General Board of Relief Society CJ In previous issues of The Relief Society Magazine there have been articles detailing the skills of découpage, gold leafing, and antiquing.* Now let us combine these artistic crafts into gifts that will be novel and pleasing to the most important people on our Christmas lists. Don't be afraid to try some delightful new combinations of materials and techniques. All it takes is the desire and the will. So, if you want to make something more than a whimsy for a gift, go ahead and do it.

(continued on page 931) *"Make Your Heirlooms With Découpage," by Winifred D. Anderson, March 1969, page 202. "Decorate Your Own Picture Frames," by Joy N. Hulme, March 1967, page 202. "Luminous Gold Leafing," by Betty McDonough, September 1967, page 678. TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Flowers Are For Christmas Arrangement by Jean Rigby Hawthorne Ward, Sugar House Stake (1) A predominating color for the arrangement was selected for use with harmonizing tones and tints. In this arrangement, purple, rose, blue, and green have been chosen, with gold for accent.

fully glued into place, being careful to squeeze out any air bubbles from under the paper (I used only the center from an 8 x 10 print and cut it to fit the round section). When glue is thoroughly dry apply multiple coats of lacquer to picture face. Since this picture was bordered with lace, forming a dike, I was able almost to puddle the lacquer and let it dry overnight. 931 le at craft Stores with 7,-inch lowered Surface in jig Hinges Clasp Plastic mold nd resin fy. Craft Supply h 80ld leaf (Dute gold) 7/> pint Sat Ish lacquer (20 Minutes drying time) in artist's Colors—mix to Color of lightest Shade in Wood /2 Pint wo one glaz €cals of Coats o arms or drawings Of same Step ] Cast three Plastic "carvings" according to resin Ostructions and place leve] In a Well-ventilated room to Cure. (We Will make im hink ¢ € decals Te carved oF Wood.) € sure t¢ Paper Containers and discardable Ixer, Be Prepared for the Strong smell whic accompanies the cur § period Step 2 Arrange Plastic Sections on box lid If they don 't quite fit, use a file to Smooth hem. § off any Sharp edges and 8lue in Place Step 3. Seal €Xposed Sections with lacquer. Whe TY, apply 80ld leaf to these areas Dry completely and sea With clear lacquer Step 4. Mix lacquer With oj] colors Sections tw ) Wood color. Paint Plastic Step 5. Appl decals oy 8lue p nts to gold leaf Surface ure air bubbles are Squeezed out from under the designs. Dry, an Seal with ¢ ear lacqu Step 6. Apply Wood tone aze liberally to whole Surface €n partly dry, use rubber Bloves and Cheesec] th or Paper towels ¢ Wipe off aze. On Plastic areas wipe back and fort leayj 8 glaze Streaked Over hig relief area © 81Ve effect of wood &rain. In €xDOsed Sections carefully reveal just the esign through he glaze Let dr Step 7. Lacquer will lift the gl gold areas it i » USe it lightly to and Clasp and ]j More shine to the ©@8es around design. I Vet. I 932 A Thing of Beauty is a Joy A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY—Candles of Elegance (continued from page 919) lighted with the results of this interesting and rewarding project that many additional ones were made to be given as Christmas gifts. Wouldn't you like to make one for your home or for a very special Christmas gift? Here are the instructions: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ALL VARIETIES The bases can be purchased from a wood turning shop or most carpenters can make any design you wish. A great variety is possible. Those shown in the pictures ranged from eight to thirty-two inches in height. Fill in any visible cracks. Lightly sand base with either 00 steel wool or fine sandpaper. Apply a sealer coat and let dry for 10 to 12 hours. INSTRUCTIONS FOR WOOD STAINED CANDLESTICK 1-inch paint brush soft cloths wood stain antique glaze Apply stain with small soft cloth, allow to stand for 45 minutes. Rub off excess stain with another soft cloth. If a darker shade is desired, apply stain again in the same manner. Dry thoroughly Apply antique glaze with small brush, let stand for 2 or 3 minutes, wipe off as much as you wish for desired effect. ENAMELED CANDLESTICKS 1 small can enamel paint in color of your choice 1 1-inch brush Apply several coats, allow sufficient time between each coat to dry thoroughly. Sand lightly between each coat. As many as five coats may be needed for a satisfactory finish. These are very attractive done in decorator colors, orange, green, pink, blue, red, etc. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ANTIQUED CANDLESTICKS Flat paint in any color of your choice or small can Bisque Wax (ceramic paint) may be used in its stead. (This paint is very economical, easy to handle, and comes in many colors.) 1 1-inch paint brush small can dull varnish antique glaze Sister Ogden makes her own glaze which she finds very easy to handle and is low in cost: 3 tsp. Turpentine 1 tsp. Linseed oil 1 tbsp. Tube coloring, either raw umber, cool color, burnt umber, warm color ° Cover candlestick base with 2 coats of either the flat paint or Bisque Wax. Allow to dry thoroughly after each coat. Apply 1 coat antique glaze. Let stand for two to five minutes. With soft cloth or toilet tissue remove as much as you wish for highlighting. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Let dry for 2 to 3 days. Cover with dull varnish, let dry for 12 hours. If you choose gold as the color, a special paint is needed. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Be sure to stir thoroughly before using and handle with great care since gold has a tendency to lift. For decoration, cut styrofoam to desired size, carving out center to hold candle. Spray with green paint. Place atop candlestick base. Dip _ flowers, greens, or fruit stems in glue and then insert into styrofoam as you desire. Now sit back and enjoy these things of beauty. 

933 December 1969

 WORKING WITH KNIT FABRICS (continued from page 925) folds of the tubing, pinning carefully, and cut out. This materia] must be handled carefully so as not to stretch it. MYRENE ALVORD'S "NO-KNIT" AFGHAN o1aaads Tassels for Afghan C