	MONDAY EVENING OCTOBER 5, 1891
	IN THE
	TABERNACLE SALT LAKE CITY.
For benefit of the Deseret Sunday School Uunion.

	700 Voices—40 Instruments—11 Soloists. The
whole under the direction of E. Stephens. Ad-
mission, 50 cts. Children under 12, half-price.
Doors open at 7 o’clock; Concert begins at 8.
	Programme: Invocation. Grand Chorus, “Let
the Hills Resound" Tabernacle Choir (350
voices) and Great Organ. Male Quartette, “O
World so Wondrous Fair,” Boshard and Pyne
Brothers, (Provo.) Song, “Love's Sorrow,” Mrs.
Bessie Dean Allison. Instrumental Selection,
Ladies’ Mandolin and Guitar Club, (40 Instru-
ments, Miss Ella Olsen, Conductor.) Duet,
“Flow Gentle Deva,” Tout Brothers, (Ogden.)
Grand Double Chorus, “Anvil Chorus,” Juvenile
and Tabernacle Choirs. (At this number the
Juvenile Choir will take the centre of the large
platform, the choir taking each side, the whole
force uniting in singing the second stanza, with
banners waving.) Duet, “The Sailor Sighs,”
Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas and G. D. Pyper.
Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes. Duet, Boshard
Brothers, (Provo.) Scotch Ballad, “Mary of
Argyle,” R. C. Easton. A good old time Song,
George Goddard, (76 years of age). Chorus by
everybody. Grand March, “Harlech.” (Original
words by Geo. A. Meears,) Combined Choirs
(700 voices) and Great Organ. Benediction.
	E. Stephens, Conductor. J. J. Daynes, Ac-
companist.


[Column 1]
	THE IRRIGATION CONGRESS.
	The Irrigation Congress held in Salt Lake City
September 15th, 16th, and 17th, afforded an op-
portunity for practical information on the subject,
to men from all parts of the country, who are
specially interested in redeeming desert lands for
the public good. The remarks of President Wil-
ford Woodruff who was invited to speak in the
afternoon of Wednesday the 16th, furnish such
valuable suggestions and give such historical
data of the settlement of these valleys, the ar-
rival of the pioneers, the building of the ‘‘Old
fort,’’ and the means used to fertilize the land, and
are so clearly set forth, concise and to the point
that they are well worth a place in every journal
of the country.
	President Woodruff and President Cannon
were introduced to the congress by the Chair-
man, Hon. Wm. M. Stewart, of Nevada.
PRESIDNT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	“Gentlemen of the Irrigation Congress: I feel
thankful that I have lived in the flesh long enough
in this Territory to behold the faces of such a

[Column 2]
congregation of gentlemen as I see here today.
It is not my purpose to occupy your time or at-
tention in arguing or talking, or conversing par-
ticularly upon the subjects or at least those prin-
ciples for which you have gathered together; but
what I will say will be a few words concerning
our arrival here, and upon the principle of irriga-
tion. Fifty-one years ago the 24th of last July I
entered this valley with 143 emigrants, or in other
words pioneers. We were led by President
Young. This country that we arrived upon was
called the Great American desert, and certainly
as far as we could see it did not deviate from that
in the least. We found a barren desert here.
There was no mark of the Anglo-Saxon race, no
mark of the white man—everything was barren,
dry and desert.
	We pitched our camp a little distance to the
southeast from here about 11 o’clock in the day.
We had a desire to try the soil to know what it
could produce. Of course all this company—
nearly the whole of us—were born and raised in
the New England States, Vermont, Maine, Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut—had no experience in irri-
gation. We pitched our camp, put some teams
on to our ploughs (we brought our ploughs with
us), and undertook to plough the earth, but we
found neither wood nor iron was strong enough
to make furrows here in this soil. It was like
adamant. Of course we had to turn water on it.
We would have done anything. We wept and
turned out the City creek. We turned it over
our ground. When we came to put our teams
upon it, of course they sunk down to their bellies
in mud. We had to wait until this land dried
enough to hold our teams up. We put in our
crops and we stayed here one month. During
that time President Young laid out this city as
you see it today in the midst of sage brush, with
not a house within a hundred miles of us. We
built a fort around ten acres, three sides of adobe
walls eighteen feet high, and one side with logs
out of the canyon. We then returned home and
some two thousand men followed us. President
Cannon here was one of the company that came
in after we did.
	Now what I wish to say is this: You gentlemen
come here today; you see the city, you go through
the country. Here are a thousand miles, I might
say, through these mountains filled with cities,
towns, villages, gardens and orchards, and the
produce of the earth sustains the people. With-
out this water, this irrigation for which you have
met today, this country would be as barren as it
was in 1847, as we found it. This irrigation is
what you have met to engage in and give your
views upon- How I am satisfied it matters not.
Whatever you decide npon in this matter and
you unite upon, I am satisfied it will prove a
blessing, not only to Utah but to every State and
Territory where these arid lands abide, and who-
ever occupies these lands of course has got to
have the water to perform the work. We have
had to do the same. We have had to learn by
experience, and all that we have obtained in these
mountains has been by irrigation. There are
portions yet which have not been irrigated, and
as one gentleman said here, if you can make two
drops of water where there was one, or two
spears of grass where there was one, you are a
benefactor to mankind. I say God bless you in
in your efforts. (Applause.)
EXTRACTS FROM PRESIDENT CANNON'S ADDRESS.
	I look upon this as one of the most auspicious
days to the Territory of Utah since 1865—the
assembling of so many representative men from
the various States and Territories interested in
this great question of irrigation. I think myself
that whatever the conclusions you may arrive at,
they are sure to be of great benefit to all this
country. The interchange of views, the ming-
ling together and becoming familiar with each


other's ideas must inevitably, I think, result in
great good and I look for grand results to follow
the meeting of this Irrigation Congress in Utah.
	I think that Utah receives great honor in being
selected as the place for your deliberations.
	This question of irrigation is one, of course,
that we have been deeply interested in from the
beginning.  I think that whatever any other sec-
tion may claim in the way of priority in irrigation
we can claim that we are the first Anglo-Saxons
who ever had recourse to this method of raising 
	There is one point that I think of great im-
portance, and I think it worthy the consideration
of this body.  We have refrained, I was going to
say religiously, from forming large corporations
to take possession of the water--we have not
been taxed for our water in Utah, but settlements
have combined together and by their own labor
have taken the water out and have contributed by
their labor in forming dams and digging ditches
to obtain the necessary supply for their acreage.
I think this is a very important feature in this
territory. We have not had to pay for our water
by their own labor.
	Another feature of our system has been that we
have had small holdings.  When we settled this
city the lots were divided out; each lot was an 
acre and a quarter.  The lots were laid out in such 
a way that the front of one lot faced the side of
another. It was designed to be a city of villas
and to have plenty of room.  You see the breadth
of our streets and the amplitude of our lots; this
was the original design.  Then, next to our city a
tier of five acre lots was laid out, then a tier of
ten acre lots, then a tier of twenty acre lots.
There were no lots laid out of a larger extent than
twenty acres.  That there might be perfect fair-
ness, we cast lots for these.  The mechanics were
expected to want five acres; those who were in a 
better condition it was thought would require ten
acres, while the farmers twenty acres.
	We have kept from monopolizing the land and
been willing to have it disrupted in small hold-
ings, so that every man might have a foothold.  I
believe that I do not overstate the truth when I
say that in no part of these United States is there
a population containing so many people living on
their own lands and owning their own houses as in
Utah Territory.
	In 1853, or thereabouts there was scarcely
enough water in City creek to water the gardens
of Salt Lake City, and it was thought then that 
we had reached the utmost limit of our supply.
But it is a fact that our water has increased in
almost every stream throughout all these moun-
tains.
	I believe there is a kind Providence that
watches over man, that wherever man goes Pro-
vidence is there to said him in his efforts. Legis-
latures and others who do not particularly be-
lieve in diving interposition may attribute this to 
natural causes, that is, to the presence of rail-
roads.  I find some attributing the increase of
rain to the presence of railroads, the rails running
through--some to the increase of trees.  What-
ever the cause may be, it is undoubtedly the fact
that man himself, his presence, the very fact that
he is here and cultivates the ground, brings to
him and to those associated with him increased
blessings.  We have proved it in this country.
	Gentlemen, I trust that harmony will charac-
terize your proceedings. I have no doubt it will
I am profoundly thankful myself that such a con-
course of intelligent men from many States and
Territories is here. We want Utah to be known.
I believe that the gathering of this assemblage

[Column 2]
will lead to a better understanding of Utah and
her people.  No one in the world will yield with
greater gratitude and satisfaction than myself to
a more familiar acquaintance with Utah and her
people on the part of our neighbors.  We welcome
Nevada, California, Arizona, Kansas, Nebraska,
Colorado and all the states and all our neighbors.
if there is anything we can do to add to the satis-
faction of your visit we shall do it gladly.  I in-
voke the blessings of God upon you proceed-
ings.


