BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.
	
	A senior nurse’s duties are somewhat
different from those of the juniors. To begin
with, she feels herself of some importance;
she has charge of linen closets; she sees to the
giving out of the food and gives out the 
medicines; when the doctor makes rounds, if
there is time she accompanies the head nurse;
she makes herself acquainted with the state of
the patients, and often has to be in charge of
the ward.
	To any one not initiated into the ways of
medical men, “giving out the medicines”
might mean a spoonful of something in a
little water.  A medicine list is an appalling
undertaking at first, there may be thirty names
on the list, some patients having as many as
five or six different medicines; in fact, it prac-
tically amounts to one-dose prescriptions. 
Different quantities are given—drops, drachms,
ounces, and so on.  With some practice and
with some one to take the medicines around
quickly a nurse can get through the list
accurately in a remarkably short time, say
fifteen or twenty minutes, but this is not often
done; we usually take our time. (A nurse
has learnt something of the properties and
doses of the medicines in her class.) 
	When a nurse has charge of a ward, or
becomes a head nurse, any notions she may
have had of her importance as a senior
disappear.  She feels herself responsible for
the condition of the ward, the care of the
patients, the instruction of the nurses,  in fact
for whatever is done or neglected.  The
doctors rely upon her for the faithful carry-
ing out of their orders and altogether she
needs a good deal of judgment and tact.
	After receiving the notes of the night nurse
and seeing that all the work is going on well,
the head nurse goes round, note book in hand,
and inquires into the state of each patient;
she questions them and listens to what they
have to say; she also makes her own obser-
vations.  In this way the nurse becomes
acquainted with her patients, while she reports
everything of note to the doctors.
	There is an etiquette odserved in the wards,
but it is not very oppressive; the nurses on
duty are subordinate to the doctors for the
time being, and everything goes on with order
and decorum.  This may sound stiff and
formal, but it is not so; it is only the fitness of
things.  We usually all work well together
and there is seldom any friction.
	The patients in Charity Hospital are the
very poor of the city; some of them are only
morally sick and needing a home; they
puzzle the doctors to make a diagnosis.  Most
of their sickness, as we nurses know, has been
brought on by over-work, poverty, drunken-
ness, laziness, and the like, but some are
worthy and deserving persons.
	Often when a person comes into the hospital
she enters a moral atmosphere which is new
to her.  She is cleaned and made fairly
comfortable; she has to drop many of her old
habits of speech, and be a decent member of
the hospital for the time being.  If she is not
too degraded she can see what is expected of
her at once.  We seldom have any trouble
with the patients and rarely hear an improper
word.  A nurse never need submit to in-
subordination; on her complaint the patient is
dismissed, but a very sick patient is seldom
beyond endurance.
	They are often very witty, and if we are in
the mood we can get lots of fun out of them.
They are also very religious.  They thank
God for everything; everything is the will of
God—their sickness, their troubles their
death; it never seems to occur to them that
they might have a will of their own.  In one


[Column 1]
way they have not much variety; they usually
object to soap and water.
	As a rule the nurses are as good to the
patients as they can be. Many of them 
remain in the hospital for a long time, and a
nurse has the opportunity of showing . them
small kindnesses, perhaps writing a letter or
giving them a garment or a few cents to pay
their car fare. In those tedious cases of
phthisis where the treatment is only palliative 
a nurse can be much to the patient. the 
patients in the emergency hospitals are some-
what different; they are mostly of the mechanic 
class and usually quite sick. That means 
business and getting them well, and they pass
on. They are not so poor they can even offer
us money, either by way of bribe or reward.
I heard of a nurse having the handsome sum
of ten dollars offered to her, and I came near 
having a pair of diamond ear-rings, only the
patient changed his mind and would not 
undergo the operation."
	The helpers spoken of in this sketch are 
women sentenced to the workhouse on 
Blackwell's Island for, varying from three
days to six months, and for such offences as
drunkenness, vagrancy, and fighting in the
streets. From the workhouse they are sent to 
do the scrubbing, laundry work, etc, in the 
institutions controlled by the Commissioners
of Charities and Correction, who are obliged
by law to use their labor. Most of them are
the sodden, frowsy creatures who huddle into 
the prison van after the laconic "ten days" of 
the poilce justice, but they are "all ages of
bad eggs," as one of them once said to me, 
and taken together they form a curious class.
They are most punctilious in always speaking
of each other as "ladies," and in the much-abused
word is somewhat amusing when applied to a
stout virago with a variegated eye.
	Drunkenness. their common vice. and the
cause of all their woe is delicately alluded to 
as a "weakness" or a "failing," and some of 
them seem rather proud of the number of
times they have been "sent up," while others 
regard it as the inevitable. Once I had to
pass a woman who was scrubbing in the
doorway at Charity, and as she moved her
pail I recognized her and said, "What, Mary, 
are you here again? I thought you weren't
coming back." Her face fell as she answered,
"Yis, m'm, I thought so too," and then she 
brightened up and said proudly, "But it was
the iligantest wake you ever see."
	Some of them again are decent and quiet
enough when not possessed by the devil of
drink, and it often happens that one of this
better class will stay on as a helper after her
sentence has expired, perhaps felling that she
is protected from herself while the river is
between her and her boon companions, but
sooner or later she is missing some day, she
has "gone over," and if she comes back it is 
in the prison boat.
	Here follows the journal of an ordinary 
day at Charity Hospital, by one of the head-
it nurses:
	"Time: 7.30 A.M.
	Sceue: Ward 3, Medical. Beds all unmade,
a few patients up - these have faces washed 
and hair combed - the majority in bed with
this duty still to be performed for them. A 
part of the floor at the front of the ward
scrubbed. Mary one of my prison helpers
is washing dishes at the table, and Bridget, 
the other, is taking soiled cloths from a large
can and sorting them for the wash.
	The atmosphere contains none too much 
oxygen; this can be explained by saying the
night-nurse is finishing her work in one of
the other wards, and the patients in her
absence have taken the precaution to close all
the windows for . fear of taking cold. After 
giving an order for the window to be let
down, I take up the night notes and read:

[Column 2]
	Murphy—Died at 3 A. M.
	Ryan—Temperature, 108 degrees; pulse 120; respiration,30; 
Antifebrine, grains iii., and other medicines given as 
ordered. Poultice applied last at 6 A. M.
	Patient passed a very restless night.
    And so on, through the other cases in the
ward. These notes are signed by the night 
nurse, who now comes in with the keys, look-
ing pretty well fagged. 
	"Good morning; I am sorry I have kept 
you waiting for the keys, but I have been so 
busy I could not get down sooner. Had a 
death in Ward 4, as well as the one here, 
and a patient in Ward 6 suffering from
delirium tremens, besides the ordinary work."
	I now go over to where my assisstants are
putting on their caps and aprons and getting 
together the things necessary for work. Miss 
W. and Miss A. are here but where is Miss
H? Miss W. answers:
	"She was called up last night to go on the 
maternity service. The superintendent missed
you, and asked me to tell you that another
nurse could not be spared to-day."
	Oh, dear, thirty-two patients in the ward, 
and five of them so helpless that they have to 
be fed and cared for like babies, two pneumonia
cases, and the usual number of phthisical and
rheumatic subjects. Well, well, grumbling
won't do the work, so we'll have to make the
best of it. 
	Each of my assistants armed with a pile of 
clean sheets and pillow-cases, proceeds to the
lower end of the ward and commences the
task of getting beds made, while I go to write
the list of clothes fro the laundry. Bridget 
counts the clothes while I stand by and take
down the number of each of the different
articles. This done, they are tied in large
bundles and sent to the wash-house. 
	Now the medicines are to be given out. I 
measure and prepare them, while a conva-
lescent patient carries them round to those in
bed. My list is a long one, and it takes fully
thirty-five minutes before they are all dis-
tributed, the bottles wiped off, and the 
medicine closet put in order. My next move
is to take a list of medicines which need to be 
renewed, and leave it ready for the doctor's 
signature. it is now twenty-five minutes past
eight, and Miss A. and Miss W. are making
as good progress as possible at their respective
rides; for it must be remembered that a nurse
has often to stop what she is doing to attend
to the wants of some particular patient, or
to carry out an order if the time is due.


