		UTAH STAKE.
	The branches of the Relief Society of Utah
Stake held their quarterly conference, Aug.
28th, 1891. Pres. Mary John presiding with
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Pres. John said it should
not be tedious for us to listen to the reports,
for we should all wish to know where our
means are used. The sisters are doing a
good work; spoke of the subjects of charity
and love, etc., would like to hear from the
different Presidents, and would now give way
for them.
	The reports that were given in before the
intermission were favorable to those repre-
sented showing unity and faith and a desire
to do right and continue to be faithful to the
end. Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. The presidency of the Stake were
present with us.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels the first speaker
thought it a great privilege we had of meet-
ing together in these conferences of the Relief
Society which was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for the purpose of doing good. This
Society is on the increase, we perform our
labors quietly but we should always strive for
the spirit of' God to guide us with humility
and love. Let us visit the sick and encourage
and build them up, etc.
	Pres. Smoot had not met with us for some
time but was pleased to do so today; spoke on
the duties of the Relief Society, which was
to help the poor and needy, visit the sick and
those in distress, comfort those that mourn,
and bind up the broken-hearted; the means
collected by the Society for the poor was to be
used for that purpose and no other, and if any
branch of the Society has any surplus means
on hand, let them give to a branch where
there are poor that need help. The sisters
are not debared from helping in any industry
they please, or in doing good in any other way
but the means collected by the Relief Society
for the poor, should be used for that purpose
and for no other purpose whatever. Pres.
Smoot also spoke to the mothers in regard to
their children, advised them to know where
their sons and daughters were at night and be
careful who they associated with, etc. 
	Pres. John endorsed Pres. Smoot’s remarks,
made some additional remarks on the same
subjects. Pres. Cluff followed on the same
subject; eulogized the Society for the great
work they had done and the help they had 
been to the Priesthood in caring for the poor,
etc. Conference was then adjourned for three
months, after singing and prayer.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.
<column 2>
	BOX ELDER Y. L. M. I. A.
    The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of Box Elder Stake met in con-
ference at Brigham City, Sept. 9th, President
Minnie J. Snow presiding. A splendid pro-
gramme was provided by our energetic Presi-
dent who spares neither pains nor labor in her
efforts to make these meetings, as also every-
thing pertaining to the association, a success.
	As it is the very busiest time of the year,
the fruit season, some little anxiety was felt
as to whether the conference would be well at-
tended, but never did the young ladies turn out
better than on the present occasion; and the
animated faces and pleasant smiles told plainly
how well everybody felt repaid for coming.
All the wards with the exception of the three
fartherest away were represented. The exer-
cises were highly interesting, instructive and
ably rendered. There was an address on “Wo-
wan’s Influence,” by Mrs. E. Vance; a dis-
course on ‘‘What Franchise Would do for
Utah Women,” by Mrs. A. H. Snow; an essay
on “The Light of Home,” by Miss Janie
Hubbard, Willard. Then a correspondance
' How is Charity regarded by the Latter-day
Saints,” replied to by Miss M. F. Peters; and
next an address on “Obedience by some one
from Fair View; followed by an article entitled
“Observance of the Sabbath,” by Mrs. J. Jen-
sen, Mantua.
	In the afternoon “Manners and Customs of
American Women,” was treated on by Mrs.
Lillie Horsley; and “Customs and Characteris-
tics of European Women,” by Mrs. S. Valen-
tine; Mrs. Mary Nelson followed with an
article entitled “Woman’s Rank in Life;” and
“Are the Gifts of the Gospel still with the
Latter-day Saints,’’was treated on by Mrs.M.T.
Forsgreen. A Book of Mormon sketch “Life
of Alma and Mosiah’s sons,” was given by
Helen Thompson, Bear River City.
	A programme so varied and well responded
to intermingled with vocal and instrumental
music, among which were, “Love’s old sweet
song,” Maggie Widerborg; instrumental duet
“Golden Clouds,” by Misses Effie Ensign and
Emeline Peters; and the Sacred Quartets
“Jesus Lover of my Soul,” and “God in Mercy
hear my prayer,” effectively rendered by ladies
voices, as well as with short and timely re-
marks by different sisters, was proof against all
weariness although the day was very warm.
	At the close of the exercises, President
Clawson spoke very encouragingly about the
association, dwelt on the greatness of woman’s
work and gave some good and sound advice to
the young people. He was followed by Coun-
selor C. Kelley who expressed his gratification
at having been present at this conference of
the young ladies, which he thought was the
best he had ever attended and thought this was
indeed a mutual improvement association.
	Pres. Minnie Snow made the closing re-
marks, in her usual brisk and practical way,
offering suggestions here and there—and re-
minding the girls of Him from whom all
knowledge comes and exhorted them to make
Him the foundation of all their works. After
singing and benediction, the conference, alto-
gether the most enjoyable affair we have had 
for a long time, adjourned for three months.
		SOPHY VALENTINE
	SCOFIELD.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On Monday, August 10th, 1891, the Relief
Society of this place gave an Anniversary
Entertainment to all the people of the ward,
to commemorate the third year of its exist-
ence; it being just three years since we were
organized.
	The entertainment was under the immediate
supervision of the President and her Coun-
selors.
<column 3>
	There was an abundance of the good things
of the earth prepared to which all present did
ample justice.
	There was a good programme rendered con-
sisting of songs, speeches, (short ones of course)
recitations etc.,among other things the follow-
ing original poem written by John F. Ander-
son for the occasion was read and well received:
LINES OF HONOR TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF
SCOFIELD.
Relief Society—a name of honor too,
What is the mission you are sent to do;
Is thy name a byword, or thy mission here in vain?
Oh! that I could tell it—thy mission and thine aim.

To tell of thy great mission designed by heaven above,
Requires that inspiration that in the Prophet moved,
It moved him to take action, to organize you here,
That you might bless humanity, in this your humble
	sphere,

On every hand they’re sighing, to get relief to-day,
Every place you travel in they need relief some way;
It may not be for clothing, it may not be for food, 
But for a word of comfort to bless the weary head.

’Tis true that bread and clothing in times of need doth
	prove
A blessing far, far greater than any word of love;
But very few are lacking for those needful blessing here,
But many souls are sighing just for a word of cheer.

And oh! how kind words cheereth the heart that’s sinking 
	low,
When all seems dark and gloomy, through life’s troubles
	here below, 
When clad in heavenly feelings a sister enters then
Her loving words prove blessings, to hearts that are in pain.

This may all seem simple unto the simple mind,
But these are daily blessings, desired by human kind; 
For every soul that mourneth—many hearts do sigh
To get a word of comfort, from a sister passing by.

There are many souls now thirsting for blessing in this
	way,
Who’ve plenty food and clothing yet unhappy all the day
Because some words of anger or hatred found its way,
With all its meanness stinging, into the heart that once
	was gay.

This to me appears life's mission, aim, and end,
To bless poor erring mortals wherever they are found;
In brief it is the mission of our sisters gathered here
To cheer and bless each other, in their Society dear.

Now may there be reunion with our sisters in this place,
May their meeting and their doings be blest with great
	success,
And may their humble efforts to comfort one and all
Be crowned with heaven’s favor from the great unto the
	small.

May they sustain each other in their assemblies here
And envy, strife and hatred, be banished from their
	sphere;
May to their names be added these words—most noble,
	true,
Excuse the rhyme and writer, I bid you all adieu.

	After the rendering of the programme
dancing was indulged in until a late hour.
Every one expressed their appreciation of the
efforts of the Relief Society, and praised them
without stint for the excellent and ably con-
ducted party they gave.
	RACHEL HOOD, Sec.
Scofield, Emery Co. Utah, Sep. 1, 1891.


