IN RURAL ENGLAND.

III

	Notwithstanding the intimacy that naturally
followed between the two cousins from their
association as nurse and patient, there was
still a reserve that it seemed impossible to break
and Miss Conway knew no more of her
cousin's love-affair at the end of a week from
the time of her illness, than she did when she
followed her on that day to the woods. The
young man had been extremely cautious, for
Miss Conway had kept a strict watch, and not
a line or message had come to the Castle, of
this she felt perfectly sure, and moreover
that her cousin was pining to know something
concerning his welfare though she never spoke
of him or in any way alluded to what had
occurred. The two girls sat together day
after day, and when Anna began to move
about the room, she took up her lace work
and busied herself with the needle, her cousin
meantime entertaining her with reading, or
telling her stories out of her own and her
mother's past life, while she too plied her
needle though carefully noting every motion
and glance of her beautiful cousin.
	The summer was fading into Autumn and
the woods were putting on their purple and
crimson robes and the sunsets were growing
more gorgeous in their brilliancy, and the
leaves in the avenue that lead up to the
house were like a heavy carpet upon the

[Column 2]

ground, ere Miss Hilliard was sufficiently re-
covered from the terrible shock she had sus-
tained to warrant her leaving the house.
	As she sat looking put with longing eyes,
and such wonderful eyes they were, with that
far-away look in them, that tells more than
words, she turned to her cousin and hesitat-
ingly, as though she dreaded the answer, "Have
no letters ever come for me during all these
long tedious weeks?" "No, my dear not any
did you expect any message?" was Jane's re-
ply, though she knew well enough that her
cousin was longing for some assurance, some
testimony of the fidelity of one for whom she
had risked so much. "Yes," replied the
young girl, "I did expect a message of some
sort and I can scarcely believe it would be
so long delayed, my father may have letters
for me Jane, do you know if he has had any?"
and her lips quivered as she spoke, it seemed
to be her last hope. "No I do not know but
he has said nothing to me of any, and when
he went away instructed me concerning his
own mail, to take charge of it etc."
	"My father seems to have perfect confidence
in you, Jane, and trusts you with all his
affairs?" "Yes, dear, even his most precious
jewel, his darling child Anna." "But he does
not love me, nor does any one else, I have
never known what love was, no one has ever
made a sacrifice for me until now. I begin to
feel that you have, O, I hope you have some
love for me, true friendship, that I may trust
you speak to you freely." Even this sudden
outburst was too much, for no sooner had she
spoken from the fulness of her heart than her
sobs and tears stifled her utterance, and she
swooned and would have fallen, but Jane
caught her in her arms and soothed her as one
would a little child; meantime the great bell
of the Castle rang furiously and Miss Conway
was called away leaving her cousin in charge
of her maid, who under the training of Miss
Conway was becoming quite an adept at
nursing.
	The summons was from Mr. Walton who
almost unceremoniously demanded entrance
to the Castle. The good old door keeper was
almost beside himself when this impetuous
young man insisted upon seeing Miss Hilliard,
but bethought himself sufficiently to send for
Miss Conway, and when she appeared upon
the scene, the lover's ardor cooled momentarily.
He saw in Miss Conway the daring young
horsewoman who had out-witted him before,
and he meekly inquired whether it were pos-
sible to see the young lady, the daughter of
Sir Edward Hilliard, as he had learned since
his arrival in town that the Baronet was
absent. "Miss Hilliard has seen no visitors as
yet, she is not recovered from the serious ill-
ness brought on by the nervous shock," she
could not finish the sentence for just then a
sob and a scream all in one breath broke in
upon them and turning in the direction from
which the sounds proceeded there came Lady
Anna down tho staircase, her loose raiment
falling about her slender figure, her arms out-
stretched, her hair falling about her shoulders
and neck like a shower of gold. With one
great bound her lover rushed forward, but
Miss Jane intercepted him and in a moment
as it were she was in her own room again and
her brave cousin sought to allay her excite-
ment, telling her she would bring her what-
ever message Mr. Walton might leave for
her. While Miss Conway was absent from


[Column 1]

the room the young man had time to collect
his thoughts and commune with himself and
he felt as though he had spoiled all by his
untimely coming.
	When Miss Conway returned she sought to
ascertain what his coming meant, and to per-
suade him to leave at once and wait until he
could come openly and honorably when Sir
Edward was at home. Miss Conway reasoned
with Mr. Walton earnestly and was firm in
her refusal not to allow any interview until
the father should be cognizant of the acquaint-
ance between Lady Anna and this masterful
young man who seemed to have such determi-
nation that Miss Conway strong as she was in
character, seemed almost powerless to defend
the position she had taken. She succeeded
however and Mr. Walton went with a heavy
heart down the avenue of linden trees to the
"lodge," where his horse was in waiting.
Slipping a gold coin into the hands of the
lodge keeper he mounted his horse and rode
away, not even casting a glance backward lest
his courage should fail him.
	"She has baffled me twice" he muttered to
himself as he rode onward, "the third time I
shall win, I am sure of it," and he put spurs
to his horse and dashed on to the mainroad
like wildfire.
	Miss Conway flew to her cousin as soon as
she assured herself the lover was out of sight
but instead of finding her in a dead faint as
she had expected she was standing at the
window in a fit of abstraction as it were and
scarcely noticed her cousin's entrance. "My
dear Anna," Jane said as she drew near to her
and putting her arm around the fair form now
still more delicate than ever, "I am very sorry
for you, I know how much you wanted to see
this defiant young man, but it must not be in
my uncle's absence."
	Lady Anna made no reply, and Jane con-
tinued, "there must be a reason why Mr. Wal-
ton does not have permission to see you, and
if he loves you truly why does he not ask
the consent of your father to pay his addresses
in a proper manner?"
	"Go ask the wind that whispers in the tall
pines, or the singing brook that runs on forever,
do they know why?" "My dear cousin this
is not reason, if you love this young man you
know why, or if not that, you must know,
why the secret is kept from your father, who
ought to be the first person to know, O, Anna
dear, I fear you do not know the danger you
incur in carying on this clandestine intercourse;
let me warn you to beware of one, who does
not seek you openly!"
	Lady Anna turned upon her cousin now
with flushed cheeks and eyes wild with excite-
ment, "do you doubt his honor cousin Jane?
He is everything that is noble, he comes of a
family as old as our own, and as grand in
every particular, with far more money, and
his mother is in the best society, has been at
Court and is royally aristocratic."
	"I grant all that cousin mine if you will, but
that does not weigh a feather against what I
said to you; he must come to the Castle honor-
ably, openly, or not at all. I will not be a
party to any scheme or plot, I will maintain
the honor of the house in your father's absence,
and you are only a child, not yet eighteen I
cannot see how any man dare speak to you of
love and plan secret interviews; it must not be,"
and the lady drew herself up to her full height
and gave her gentle cousin a most authorita-
tive look as she uttered the last words.
	Poor Anna overcome with grief and emo-
tion too deep for any other expression except
in sobs and moans, dare not even ask her
cousin if any tender message had been left for
her, and only wept until her whole frame
shook, and the Dr. had to be summoned that
night to quiet her ere she could sleep.
	The morning found her better and she re-

[Column 2]

solved to enquire whether Mr. Walton had left
any loving token or assurance of his love and
fidelity, but her heart failed her when she
heard the maid announce to her cousin that
Sir Edward had arrived during the night, and
wished her to come down to breakfast with
him.
	She lay thinking over her beautiful past
while her cousin was down stairs, somehow
she had the utmost confidence in Jane that
she would not betray her secret, she felt sure
that she had not even told the Dr. and she
was too unsophistacated to be suspicious. She
did not know what the outcome was to be,
but she felt to leave it all to cousin Jane and
fate. She ate her dainty breakfast, and
sipped her tea as if she had not a sorrow in
the world, so calm are we all at times just before
a storm bursts forth in all its fury. In fact
Miss Hilliard grew quite confident as she
thought over what had happened the day be-
fore and she said to herself, "Maitland loves
me and his mother cannot control his affec-
tion or his conscience." She felt compara-
tively reconciled as she mused alone, the sun
was shining brightly and the air was full of
that rich sweetness that comes with the golden
Autumn. She looked from her window to the
Eastern hills and she breathed a fervent prayer
to God though she knew not how to frame it
in words, that her life might be like the sun-
light to him she loved so ardently that no
sacrifice seemed too great for her to make so
strong so absorbing is woman's love, even
when she knows it not;—innocent as a child
was this fair young girl, it was her first trial,
her first sorrow, and it had come upon her so
unexpectedly. Her beauty, her artlessness,
her simplicity had completely captured young
Walton when he first saw her; and in their
lonely rambles in the fields he had told her
that to be true to him, she must not reveal
even their acquaintance because his mother
had decided long ago, that he should marry 
another, and besides "your father hates my
mother and all our race," and Anna trusting
him so utterly never inquired further; no
thought of evil, or harm, no suggestion of
impropriety crossed her mind, she had been
left so much to herself and her own thoughts
and so pure was she in every attribute of her
nature, that she could not understand the
danger that threatened her, nor did she know
that even now a volcano was about to burst
forth in her very presence that might consume
all her hopes of happiness, and turn that day
into blackest night.
	"Do you know Jane," said the Baronet to
his niece when they were seated at the break-
fast table, "that this house is quite a different
place since you came, I wish you could initi-
ate Anna into the air and manner of house-
hold management that you seem to possess,
you are my mother over again in every re-
spect, she looked just as you do, she had the
same intuition, knew everything beforehand;
by the bye Jane how is Anna has she re-
covered, she never would come down fo break-
fast, never!" "Uncle Edward I am very
much concerned about Anna she has some-
thing on her mind and is very excitable."
"I do not see why, she never has had any
care nor any responsibility, she has been
left to do as she pleased, in fact I have been
too much occupied with other things to know
much about her, and bless me she's only a
mere child, not old enough to be reasoned
with, if her mother had lived it would have
been different, I don't know anything about
women, why should I? Its years since I had
any association with any one of them except
to meet them casually. To be sure I have
met them abroad, I don't go into society,
there's only your Aunt Matilda and her
daughters and my Aunt Judith and cousins
Hannah and Susannah, and one or two others,
chance acquaint ances, I wouldn't want Anna
to pattern after any of them, and now I
really do think I would like you to stay here
and take charge of Anna and the house and
of your old uncle if you think you can.


