THE WOMAN’S CLUB.

	The Woman’s Club is the title of a new book
just recently issued by the United States Book
Company successors to John W. Lovell, New
York City. Olive Thorne Miller the well-known
and popular writer and whose famous books
about birds etc., have given her a world wide
reputation is the author of this new work, which
she has dedicated in the preface to the “Women
of America,” and has designated upon the title
page, “a practical guide and hand book.” The
book upon perusal commends itself to all in-
terested in club work or thorough organization,
and teaches many important things pertaining  to
practical and effective systematic work. The
contents are well arranged in chapters touching
upon various subjects in detail, and giving ideas
so clearly, that one not versed in these matters
would be able to comprehend readily how to or-
ganize and carry on the work of a club without
difficulty, and even to those familiar with practi-
cal organization of associations it gives many


valuable hints, and suggestions and helpful in- 
formation. We noticed particularly the opinion
in reference to a Board of Directors or an Ex-
ecutive Committee; and we most heartily endorse
the views she has expressed on this subject.
Miss Miller says, “They are in law the Trustees
of the Society, they are responsible for its deeds,
they should therefore have power commensurate
with the seriousness of their office.” Again the
selection of the members of this Board is more
important than that of any other of the officers.
They should never be very young nor should
they all be changed at once. Work would drag 
and blunders occur, if there were no old members
knowing the routine to initiate the fresh ones.
Speaking of the Ex. Com. the author says, “It is
not wise to have it composed of the club officers
alone for two reasons. First every active officer
in a club that has life has enough to do to fill her
own place well. Secondly, it may be necessary
sometimes to deal officially with an officer, and
therefore to have a power above all other officers.”
   The book contains much that is useful in the
matter of organizing, preparing a Constitution
by-laws etc., in fact the work is alto
gether the most complete of its kind,
showing the uses and needs and good results to
be obtained from women cooperating together in-
a way that reaches all and uplifts as well as har-
monizes those elements in society and in home
life that are otherwise left to individual cultiva-
tion or restraint and by mutual effort and sym-
pathy much greater benefit to all must necessarily
follow.
   The price of the book is $1,00 and it is well
worth the money.


