LORD IS IT I?

	This question as we are all aware, was put
to our Lord by every one of His disciples
(Matt. 26, 39,) as He was partaking with them
of the last supper, when the sorrows that were
before him weighted heavily upon his spirit
and He was constrained to open his heart to
the beloved disciples and told them that He
was about to be betrayed by one of their num-
ber into the hands of his enemies, which called
forth the question "Lord is it I?" The
answer He gave to Judas soon proved to them
who it was that should do this thing, for Judas
immediately rose up and went out into the
darkness of the night to carry out into the
darkness of the night to carry out his wicked
purpose. "Having procured a band of men
and officers," he entered the garden of Geth-
semane whither Jesus had gone to commune
with His Father as was His custom when any
greater trial was before Him, but the treacherous
Judas had done his work and our Lord was
consequently arrested.
	But we are all familiar with these facts--
cannot we gather a lesson from the subject
that may be useful to ourselves? Let us
notice the conduct of the disciples and ask
ourselves, would we have acted the same under
the same circumstances? would we have asked
"Lord is it I?" would we not rather have
looked around that little group and tried to
think which would be the most likely to prove
guilty of such a deed? would we not have
screened ourselves and thought any one of the
others more likely to commit such a dastardly
act?  But not so with them, they thought only

[Column 2]
of themselves--"Lord is it I?" was the spon-
taneous  question from them all.
This question should be put to our hearts
every day or lives--Is is I, will forgot my
prayers this morning because I have remained
in my bed till the last moment and there spent
my time which ought to have been spent in
prayer and thanksgiving to our Heavenly
Father for His preserving care during the
past night?  "Is it I," who will this day mis-
represent the words of a fellow saint, and
thereby make an unfavorable impression about
him and so lower him in the estimation of his
friends? Is it I who will be so swallowed up
in the whirlpool of business or pleasure as to
be unable to meet my Father in the spirit of
communion and freedom which it is my privi-
lege to do, and which is absolutely necessary to
prosperity of soul?
	If we were sometimes to put these questions
to ourselves, and act according to the answers
we would receive from our own consciences, our
souls would nto be so barren for want of 
heavenly nourishment, we would be prepared
to meet the little troubles and annoyances of
life as necessary to our soul's well being, we
would not need to take the microscope to mag-
nify the words of others, which, if spoken at
all, may have been spoken thoughtlessly with
no evil intent, "we should watch unto prayer,"
that we may not in an unguarded moment do anything that would dishonor our Heavenly
Father, or grieve the Holy Spirit and cause
it to depart from us.  Would to God we had
more of the mind of Christ who was "meek and
lowly in heart," whose "meat and drink it was
to so the will of His Father in heaven. He
far as He could do them good.  Slander or
misrepresentation never escaped His sacred
lips but His teaching was--"Every idle word
that man shall speak, shall they give account
of in the day of Judgment."  Let us retrace
our steps to the table where the Lord sits with
His disciples.The words He uttered on that
occasion were full of consolation and hope to
the true believer. He said to His disciples--
"Verily I say unto you, I will no tdrink hence-
forth of this fruit of the vine until that day
when I drink it new with you in my Father's
Kingdom." Also in 27 sec. Doc and Cov., in,
a Revelation given through Joseph the Seer,
He said--"The hour cometh that I will drink
of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth,
not only with the Ancient Prophets," whom
He named, "but with all those whom my
Father hath given me out of the world." These
words of our Lord assure us, that if we con-
tinue faithful to the end, we shall surely sit
down with Him and partake of the new wine
of the Kingdom, and if we are looking for-
ward to the enjoyment of such a privilege
"what manner of persons ought we to be in all
holy conversation and godliness." Surely such
a state of blessedness with our Lord and all
those who have gone before, is worth striving for.
St. Paul says--"Eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neighter hath is entered the heart of man
the things which God hath prepared for them
that love Him."
	May the Holy Spirit help us to continue
faithful to the end, that we may be able to lay
humble claim to those blessing promised to
us in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	O glorious day! O blessed hope!
	My soul leaps forward at the thought;
	When in that happy, happy land,
	We'll take the Ancients by the hand;
	In love and union hail our friends;
	And death and sorrow have an end.
