M. A. Y. GREENHALGH-

	I was for many years connected with various
societies in the city of London, England.
These societies were organized for the protec-
tion, and assistance of young women, strangers
who had left their homes in the country to
seek employment in the great metropolis. To
what terrible temptations, and privations,
many of these girls were subjected, and to what
straits some of them were reduced, no tongue
can tell, or pen describe. Ladies and gentle-
men who spent much of their time and means,
in the good work of providing respectable
homes for them at a cost low enough to be
paid out of the small wages many were able
to earn, did a noble work, but their utmost
efforts could reach but a comparative few of
the vast numbers who flocked to the city, every
year. Yet among those few these Samaritans
often saw or heard of extraordinary, and
touching incidents of unselfish suffering and
endurance.
	Referring to my journal of the year 1879 I
find recorded the death of a young woman,
whose life had been wrecked, and shortened,
through her devotions to an unscrupulous, and
worthless brother.
	I had taken a strong interest in her and her 
room-mate, for they were both honest, virtuous,
and industrous girls, who had suffered many
privations patiently. One day I received a
note from one of them stating that her com-
panion was ill, she feared dying, and begging
me to visit them as soon as passible.
	I at once did so, taking with me a good
physician. As soon as the medical man saw
her, he whispered to me "too late." She died
that evening, calmly, peacefully as a child
falls to sleep from sheer weariness. We laid
her away tenderly for we knew nothing of
her family; if there were any left they did not
trouble about her. I took her companion
home with me for a few days so that she might
rest and recuperate, after the care and fatuige
she had experienced while nursing her sick

[Column 2]

friend; and from her I heard the sad story I
am about to relate.
	The name of the dead girl was Ellen Morris,
she had come from a sea-side village in
Suffolk, three years prior to her death; she
was then a pale, thin girl of 18 summer's
growth, upon whose well turned cheeks
lingered some sparkles of light, and freshness
of her country home. She would have been
more than pretty, had not some untimely sor-
row checked her beauty in the bud. Perhaps
it was sudden poverty, or loss of parents, per-
haps both combined; still evidence remained
to show how bright those deep black eyes
would be did happiness shine in them, how
radiantly lustrous that finely chiseled counte-
nance if lit up with gaiety and joy.
	She was clad in rusty mourning, and her
stock of clothing was of the scantiest.
	"This poor girl and I" said Mary, "through
disappointed effort became associated in life,
and friendship."
	"The first time I saw how wonderfully joy
could transfigure her pensive features, was one
morning when she met me with the glad tid-
ings that she had found work for both of us
in the city, and poor as the price was, I caught
at the offer for I was reduced to my last
sovereign, and Ellen, poor child, to her last
sixpence. The work was necktie making, per-
haps the worst paying employment we could
have found."
	"We at once rented a small room, in a
decent house near the factory, and after two or
three weeks practise we could earn, by working
early and late, about 18 shillings per week be-
tween us; this sufficed for our actual wants,
and by and by after a long and trying interval
the pressure upon the springs of industry
were loosened, and Ellen and I, were offered
more work than we could do, at advanced
prices; and but for some secret drain upon her
purse, Ellen's savings would have exceeded
mine, for she was a much quicker hand at the 
work we were supplied with than I was."
	"Yet she was always short of coin, and she
had surrounded herself with such an atmos-
phere of reserve that I found it impossible
to question her upon the evidently painful
topic."
	Several times I had seen her, and always
when it was dark, in hurried conversation
with a showy but shabbily dressed young man,
whose features I had never been near enough
to get a distinct view of. After these inter-
views Ellen was always excited and distressed,
so I concluded that the stranger was in some
way connected with the absorption of her earn-
ings and the growing melancholy which op-
pressed her naturally buoyant spirits. Once I
asked her, had she ever had a lover?" "I have
loved and been beloved, by one long since
dead, had he lived I should not have been
here," was her reply."
	"Have you no relations, I ventured to ask,
fearful as I always was, of giving her pain,
by striking upon some hidden chord of
anguish?" "Yes," she said, "one, a brother,"
adding as she left the room, "he is a sailor."
	"The following year was a prosperous one,
trade was good, and I obtained an excellent
situation in Bond Street. Ellen might have
gone with me, but she preferred taking an en-
gagement in the City where she could have
piece work, and be able to earn more money,
by working more hours than at the West
End. She would take home so much that she
could only get through it by sitting up three
parts of the night. She was killing herself, that
was evident, in spite of the remonstrance of
her employer and myself, she refused to mod-
erate her suicidal toil.
	"I have never seen a cleverer, or more taste-
ful hand than Ellen and for that reason she
could command the highest remuneration her
employers could afford to give; and with her

[Column 3]

employers most profitable patrons she had be-
come a great favorite; they would be waited
on by no one else, and thought no cap or
bonnet elegant that had not passed through
her transforming fingers. To her employers,
and myself, this craving for money in one so
young was perfectly astounding, and inexplic-
able, still we could do nothing but remonstrate
with the insatiate worker. Mrs. Wilson, her
employer, and myself were one evening debat-
ing upon what course to pursue toward this
girl whom we both loved, when she entered
the room, with a determined look and air.
At sight of me she appeared surprised and
somewhat confused, though her greeting was
kind and cordial. Poor, wan, haggard girl,
what madness can make her thus sacrifice
herself, was my thought as I held her thin
wasted hand in mine, and looked into her eyes
now preternaturally bright with the consum-
ing fire of her life blood."
	She comprehended that silent questioning
and in reply said in a low, sad voice, "There
is a cause Mary, I cannot just yet slacken my
exertions and it would be useless even for you
to urge it.
	"Then turning to Mrs. Wilson, asked, "is
it agreed that I undertake the whole of the
order I received on Saturday from Mrs.
Laird." "You could not possibly accomplish
it," replied Mrs. Wilson, "this is Monday, and
on Friday every article must be delivered as
you know." "I can, and will do it, unless you
give it to some one else, and if you do, I shall
at once transfer my services to another house."
The words ingratitude and insolence were on
my tongue and would have been spoken but
for Ellen's deprecating look and exclamation.
"There is a cause, I tell you Mary, and you
shall know afterward, why I want a particular
sum by Friday evening, I must have the money
by that time at the latest."
	It would, I saw, be time thrown away to try
to dissuade her from her purpose, and Mrs.
Wilson yielded, and gave her the work. On
Friday when her self imposed task was com-
pleted and she held in her hand the money, her
strong will gave away, and she fainted, when
restored to consciousness, she went into violent
hysterics.
	I was at once sent for, and when I arrived
my unhappy friend seized my arm, and pulling
my head close down to hers gasped out, "The
money Mary, the money, take it to 24 Sun
Street Clerkenwell, do not delay a moment,
my brother is there waiting for it, he is un-
worthy, but he is my brother, let him have
it."
	"I delivered it safely to that dissolute,
thoughtless man, whom the delay of another
day would have consigned to a prison, and
who had systematically deprived his sister of
her hard earned wages.
	He sailed for America the next day neither
knowing, or caring that the money he had re-
ceived was the price of his sister's life. It was
the last she ever earned, and she left herself
without a sixpence, to live upon, and she was
laid to rest by strange hands."
	"You saw," said Mary to me, "how peace-
fully she passed away, within a month after his
departure, and surely such a sacrifice should
be a passport to that country, where selfishness
and injustice are unknown."
	Such a life as Ellen's adds another testi-
mony to demonstrate that among the poor and
lowly of the earth more of the spirit of the
Redeemer, and the eternal Father is found,
than among the wealthy, and those the world
calls great. Poverty and suffering draw us
closer together, soften and purify the heart,
create sympathy toward those who are fellow
sufferers in poverty and distress. While wealth
and prosperity often cause us to forget that
the same towns hold the poor and the afflicted.


