[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson IV - Home Economics]

LESSON IV. Home Economics Fourth Week in September. CHILDREN'S CLOTHING. Since the beginning of time man has had problems to meet. Perhaps the greatest has been the procuring of food for sustaining life; next to that comes the covering of the body for protection" and adornment. 
 Why is it that man wears clothing and other animals do not? Miss Ballin in the science of Dress says. "Animals living in the water have a layer of fat next the skin through which water cannot pass, and which resists the passage of heat. The skin, being to a certain extent, non-conducting partially prevents excessive loss of heat, and in this duty it is supplemented in the animals by feathers or fur, and in man by clothes. "Clothes are worn to keep us warm, but not all seem to know that they do not communicate warmth to us. but effect their purpose simply by preventing the excessive loss of that heat which is manufactured in our own bodies. Hence, we are warm in incorporation as our clothes are non-conductors of heat." Almost from the first people have tried to make their clothes attractive as well as useful. Most any one can make some kind of covering for the body but it takes thought, a good idea of form and color, and a good seamstress to make clothes that are warm, comfortable, economical, as well as artistic. The first clothing was made by Adam and Eve of fig leaves. From this simple apron has developed our complex clothing. The first requisite of clothing is to cover the body in order to retain the heat during cold weather and to offer protection from excessive heat in warm weather. What materials do we have that most nearly fill this requirement? Tt is generally agreed that wool is better than any of the other materials; loosely woven being better than closely woven because there is more air space, and two thicknesses of light weight are warmer than one heavy weight. One difficulty with wool is its shrinking property which makes care in washing necessary. Underclothes made entirely of wool irritate the skin of some people while a combination of part wool and silk, or wool and cotton, effects no inconvenience. Next to wool as a non-conductor comes silk and then cotton. Silk comes highest in price, wool second, and cotton third. The covering should be distributed evenly over the body with as little weight as will meet the requirements for protection. In taking up clothing for infants  the uppermost thoughts should be comfort and neatness. Even people who have made a special study of the subject disagree as to how much clothing and what kind should be worn. One satisfactory completion is woolen shirt band, stockings, petticoat with sleeves, cotton diaper and a slip of some sheer material as batiste or flaxen. The first few weeks of a baby's life it can be dressed in short, diaper band, stockings and kimona night gown tied down the front. One of the main things in an infant's clothing is to have it dressed warmly with clothing made in such a way that it can be put on with very little handling and turning of the baby. The first few weeks a