[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Real Economy in the Home Clara Fagangren]
Real Economy in the Home By Clara Fagargren. Mrs. Tobbs ran over to her neighbor, Mrs. Snobbs, to see if she could use the telephone ( her own having been taken out for economical reasons). She stumbled and almost fell over the full garbage can outside the kitchen door, and could not but take a casual look at its contents; bits of bread, the tough ends of steak, stalks of celery, even half eaten pieces of cake confronted her eye. The door was opened by a half-clad youngster, (although it was well after nine o'clock in the morning ) eating, having a pancake in one hand and a piece of candy in the other. "Come right in," he said, "mother is in the dining room, writin' her lecture for the Ladies' Club this afternoon." The neat and scrupulously clean Mrs. Tobbs crossed the untidy kitchen with its sink piled high with unwashed dishes, into the equally untidy dining room, where Mrs. Snobbs, attired in a soiled and frilly silk kimona and an elaborate boudoir-cap on her tousled head, was busily engaged in the task of writing out her speech on home economics, she being a prominent member of the lending women's clubs in the city. "Sit down," she said cordially to her friend, ''do tell me how you manage to live with your large family these times when everything is so high; it's all we can do to meet our bills with only two children to support, while you have a family of eight!" Mrs. Tobbs seated herself on the only chair in the room which was not streaked with grease or jelly. Folding her hands on her freshly ironed apron, she contemplated the other woman thoughtfully. "That is getting to be quite a problem," she admitted, "my husband is not getting any more money now than he did when things cost half what they do now, and it seems that the children's appetites are increasing every day; but thank the Lord for that, it's cheaper to buy bread than medicine." "But," Mrs. Snobbs persisted, "you must have variety in the diet. Here we are tired to death of roast and steaks, salads and cake, I wish I could think of something unusual. Yesterday I bought a lobster, it cost me forty cents a pound and two hours' work to prepare it and then we didn't seem to relish it." "Perhaps Mrs. vouchsafed you Tobbs, have the who habit knew of the eating Snobbs between children meals," were seldom seen without candy of some kind in their hands. She had
