MABEL WALKER WILLEBRANDT Assistant United States Attorney General Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt Alice Louise Reynolds English, Welsh, French, and German blood mingle in the veins of Mrs. Willebrandt. Her maternal ancestors are the Harwicks, Eatons, and Altons, of New York state, where these families have resided for several generations. Her father's ancestors all came from Pennsylvania and Tennessee. On both sides her people have been either farmers or teachers. A rather unusual number of her ancestors were college professors in the early colleges of the New England states. Her maternal grandfather, Thomas P. Eaton, served with the Seventh Missouri Cavalry in the Civil War. Twice he was discharged from service because of disabilities, but each time on his recovery he again volunteered, so that he was found in service at the end of the war, having taken part in the battle of Pea Ridge. Both Mrs. Willebrandt's mother and father were school teachers in Putnam and Mercer counties, Missouri. They were married in Stevens county, Kansas, where Mrs. Willebrandt was born on a homestead near Woodsdale, a point near what was then known as the Panhandle of Texas. On July 25, 1888, the Haystack Massacre occurred, which resulted in the shooting of Sheriff Cross and his posse of twelve men, including Cyrus W. Eaton, an uncle of Mrs. Willebrandt. Mrs. Willebrandt's father, D. W. Walker; was so much disturbed over the massacre that he determined to leave that part of the country. He moved with his wife and daughter, who was then a small child, to Lucerne, Missouri, where he bought and published the Lucerne Standard and served as postmaster. When Oklahoma was opened, Mr. Walker with his wife and child, drove in a covered prarie schooner from Missouri to Oklahoma. -For the second time he engaged in newspaper work, this time at Blackwell, his publication being known as the Blackwell Times. When Mabel reached her thirteenth year, her father, desiring better school advantages for her, moved the family to Kansas City, Missouri. Her parents took very much interest in her education and stimulated her intellectual growth a great deal by keeping good books and magazines before her. Her life on the farm seems to have taken root in her life for she has always been a keen observer and lover of nature. As she was only a child, she desired - conpanionship, and so her pafents took into their home two other girls, treating them in all respects as her sisters, 
 When she was thirteen years of age she had her first experience in a grammar school, the Humboldt School in Kansas City, Missouri, from which she was graduated in a little less than a year and entered a manual training school, in Kansas City. Later with her foster sister, Maude Hubbard, she entered Park college, Parkville, Missouri, and her parents moved to Michigan, where they opened the Buckley Bank in the new lumber town of Buckley, Michigan, at which place they resided until 1919, when they moved to a ranch on which they now live, near San Gabriel, California. Due to the illness of her foster sister, Mrs. Willebrandt left Park College. And began teaching in Buckley, Michigan. She attended Ferris Institute, at Grand Rapids, Michigan, a. Private school of former Governor Ferris, of Michigan. In 1910, she married A. F. Willebrandt, a high school principal of Buckley, Michigan, and, because of his broken health, she thereafter moved to Tempe, Arizona. She graduated from | normal school and the following year took the principalship of the Buena Park Grammar school, near Los Angeles, California. Later she was principal of the Lincoln Park school, in South Pasadena, during which time she pursued her studies of law in the University of Southern California from which University she received the degree of LL. B., and later the graduate degree of LL. M. In 1915 James A. Pope was made public defender for the city of Los Angeles, and Mrs. Willebrandt at that time, at his recommendation, started the first organized plan of defense of women charged with crime, by a woman attorney in any city in the United States. This work which was purely voluntary at first, 'was later incorporated as part of the city's method of handling women offenders. In the course of her duties, Mrs. Willebrandt found time to befriend and legally represent something over 2,000 woman accused of various crimes, and most valuable of all obtained a first hand knowledge and study of the social crimes of prostitution and poverty. Immediately after graduation Mrs. Willebrandt opened law offices in the Douglas building, Los Angeles, California, and has steadily won success at the bar and: increased respect from the attorneys and judges of Los Angeles. Nothing spectacular has marked her legal attainments, but steady growth in practice and success at the bar has followed earnest effort and diligent application. She has always worked fifteen to eighteen hours per day. She has found time, however, to participate in the woman's clubs and civic activities, serving as chairman of legislation of the Friday Morning Club, of Los Angeles, having eighteen hundred members, and being classed as the formost woman's club of the city. MRS. MABEL WALKER WILLEBRANDT 509 One year chairman of legislation of the Los Angeles County Business and Federal and Professional Women's Federation. Chairman of Legislation of the College Women's Club of Los Angeles. For two years chairman of legislation of the Los Angeles County Federation of Women's Clubs, numbering 22,000 women.. President of the Women Lawyers' Club of Los Angeles one _ year. President of the Professional Women's Club of Los Angeles, a well respected and established club composed of the women who are practicing physicians, attorneys and dentists of the city. Vice President of the Legislative Council for 1920-1921, and. Delegate to the Legislature to present the bill sponsored by the woman's organizations of the state. For five years a member of the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and of the California State Bar Association, she is one of the members from the Los Angeles County Bar Association on the Committee on Unlawful Practice of Law. Is one of the most active committee of the bar association and succeeded last year in passing a law curtailing illegal practices. In 1920 she was one of the delegates from the Los Angeles County Bar Association to the state convention. During the war Mrs. Willebrandt was Chairman of the Legal Advisory Board for District No. 11, in Los Angeles, the second largest district in the city, where she did yoeman service, almost day and night, during the draft period, thirty attorneys serving with her and under her direction. She has no particular sports that she indulges in, never having had time to pursue them regularly, but is extremely fond of mountain climbing and all outdoor life. During Summer vacations she has explored many remote and somewhat inaccessible portions of the California Rockies starting with no guide but a compass, a miners equipment, burrow and one or two women companions. - She has always been a Republican in politics and is now a member of the Republican State Central Committee of California. On the 27th of August, 1921, Mrs. Willebrandt was appointed Assistant Attorney General of the United States. The Attorney General placed her in charge of a division of the Department of Justice. All questions of policy, appeals and directions to the United States attorneys pass through her hands and she has general supervision and charge of all litigation arising in the 88 Federal districts of the United States and island processions under the following laws: 1. Taxation, other than customers, such as: (a) Income tax. (b) Estate tax. 
 (c) -Tax on admissions and dues. (d) Excise taxes. All matters arrising under the National Prohibition act. Indian liquor laws. All matters pertaining to the importations, exportations, transportation, manufacture, and traffic of liquor and other liquor statutes. 5. Customs and admiralty statutes as applied to liquor. 6. Prisons. 7. Requests from the President or members of the Cabinet for opinions on interpretation of law, on all matters relating to the foregoing subjects. Seo) Mrs. Willebrandt was admitted to practice before the. United States Supreme Court on motion of Attorney-General Harry M. Daughtery, October 3, 1921. It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 101:79, We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man, and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, either in making laws or administering them, for the good and safety of society. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 134:1. Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 28:21. 512 ~. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the increasing obedience of the people to the laws of the State and Nation. In primitive society, business enterprises such as we conceive today were unknown. A man had what he personally could hoard. Airplanes, that conquer distances and the heights of the atmosphere about us; ocean liners, that regularly plow the waves between continents; great dams, that conserve water to turn arid regions into fertile fields; factories, that give work to thousands, and which supply the needs of food and clothing for vast surrounding areas; systems of railroads, that distribute the products of these factories and exchange those of one region with another, and the countless other manifestations of our complex business lives of today, have developed because laws were made and enforced to govern the conduct of man in these relationships. It is a strange paradox that America which stands out in relief against the background of all the countries of the world as offering the greatest liberty, and the greatest business opportunities, at the same time should have the largest percentage of crime. And the increase and contagion from that crime endangers our business life today, for we could continue to grow great and to maintain our business stability and to protect the development of our factories and our public improvements, in the face of a large amount of lawlessness, only so long as our population was sparse. In recent years the business men of America have come to> realize that the perpetuation of our liberal institutions and our business expansion is only possible if we safeguard the legal structure upon which those institutions are built. The problem today is not so much to enforce the law as it is to instill respect and voluntary obedience for law. There are two heedless groups that destroy reverence for law in America. They are the "uppermost" and the "dregs" of American life; the families of wealth and standing who feel that they are above the law, and the immigrant agitator who skulks beneath, seeking to undermine it from below! What this country needs today more than anything else to save it from the lawlessness from our tide of emigration and the thoughtless shirker of civic responsibility of our "best families" is a new view of peace patriotism; patriots who view their duty to stand by laws enacted by this nation whether they like the law or not as a sacred trust, and who hold honor above riches or _social fads. We need men who regard the laws of this country as the foundations of its business life; who refuse to spend their time quibbling as to whether they would have laid this or that stone in the foundation differently; and they refuse thereby to tear down the foundation because of different theories concerning its construction. We need men who obey the law themselves _??