[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: Women Past and Present | Author: Unknown]

WOMEN PAST AND PRESENT.
	Here and there in the Bible the names of
women have been mentioned and to those
who have made a study of the Scriptures
some of these are in a certain sense immor-
talized in their minds.
	Eve, the mother of all living, comes first
and appeals perhaps more strongly to all
the world than any other woman ever
known. We of today think of Eve as the
highest type of beauty in the Garden of
Eden, surrounded with the most charming
and delightful trees, vines and flowers.
	Then there is Sarah, who actually con-
versed with the Lord face to face, most
wonderful to contemplate! The Lord made
her promises which were literally fulfilled.
	The poetic mind picture of Rebecca at
the well who gave pure water from her
pitcher to the thirsty traveler and his weary
camels, and manifested her simple faith in
the word of the Lord, sufficient to leave her
father's home and her own country and fol-
low the faithful servant to abide in a distant
land. How perfectly illustrative of the sim-
plicity of the lives of that ancient people!
	Miriam, the sister of Moses, who, al-
though she followed him into the wilder-
ness, did not always yield gracefully to the
counsel of, her illustrious brother. There
was also Deborah who, when Israel was
without a leader, went forth at the head of
the armies and won the battle and judged
Israel forty years and there was peace in
the land.
	Ruth was firm and steadfast through her
devotion to her mother-in-law Naomi. Ruth
whose words ring down through all time
as a motto to be repeated forever:
	“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge, thy people shall
be my people, and thy God, my God.”
	Huldah, the prophetess who dwelt in the
college in the temple, who read from the
book of the Law of the Lord, and told the
king what would befall the people if they
listened not to the words written therein.
	Queen Esther who succeeded in overrul-
ing the mandates of the king and thwarted
the purpose of those in power and found
royal favor.
	Those of the New Testament are even
more familiar. Mary and Martha are the
two most famous. We find mention made
of Anna the prophetess who dwelt in the


[Column 1]
temple and went not out day nor night. As
a child the writer recalls the fact of how
delightful she thought it would be to dwell
in a Temple.
	Perhaps it would be considered almost
sacrilege to call a woman a prophetess in
this day and yet one who knew Lucy Smith,
the mother of the Prophet Joseph, can
scarcely think of her except as a prophetess.
Her soulful eyes, even in her picture, re-
veal this fact.
	In what is termed the middle ages, wom-
en were as heroines and certainly they
achieved merited greatness of intellect and
ability even though the customs of that pe-
riod would not accord them the place of
equality with men.
	Hypatia was so learned in the ancient
Greek philosophy that she taught the men
of that time in lectures in the great halls
and temples of learning devoted only to the
higher thought, but because she was a
woman of such remarkable talent and cul-
ture, and could draw large audiences who
seemed spell-bound in her presence, she was
cruelly murdered by an infuriated mob,
dragged from her carriage on her way to
the great lecture hall in the city of Alexan-
dria and terribly abused, torn limb from
limb, and her bones burned to ashes. This
was about the middle of the fifth century.
	Sappho, the Greek muse, the greatest
writer of lyric poetry and song, was born
about a century later. She was exceeding-
ly beautiful, but her life is shrouded in mys-
tery. Research among the archives of that
famous city of Athens have brought from
obscurity her work and a few of her songs,
some of them being only snatches of mel-
ody, have been published.
	Coming down to a later day, we recall
Queen Elizabeth of England, who was fa-
mous for her executive ability. It was
during her reign that a great change came
about for all women of that period. Per-
haps Elizabeth was not a well-balanced
woman, nor was she as wise as she might
have been, yet she had great strength of
character, was an example of courage to
face difficulties and rise to the occasion
when a crisis came.
	Catherine II, Empress of Russia, is an-
other. Her womanly characteristics brought
about reforms and she will always stand as
a shining mark.
	The annals of history have only recorded
a few remarkable women, but in the later
times, when knowledge and higher educa-
tion have become more widely diffused,
many women, both in European countries
and eleswhere, have been recognized as
great benefactors of the world at large.
	Those who are acquainted with history
know of the great works of Harriet Mar-
tineau, Joan of Arc, also of Queen Louise
of Prussia, and of Madame de Stael and of
many others.
	Then Victoria, queen, empress, wife and
mother, whose example of each of these
will live while time lasts.
	The name of George Eliot must not be
omitted in mentioning the great women of
England. She was the greatest literary
woman that England has produced.
	America, ever since its settlement, has
made rapid strides upward in every great
cause for the world’s betterment. At the
time of the framing of the Constitution, Ab-
igail Adams wrote her husband that in that
important document women must be con-
sidered, proving her courage and her own

[Column 2]
wisdom, in thus standing foremost for the
cause of woman’s equality with men.
	After the Revolution and peace was re-
stored, women in America were busy with
household cares, and it was a long time
before great things were achieved by them,
but the practice of slavery in the south and
the abhorrence of it in the north provoked
dissension. A convention was called in Lon-
don and both men and women were sent as
delegates from the United States. The
women, however, were not allowed the priv-
ilege of delegates—could not take their
seats, but watched the proceedings from be-
hind curtains in the gallery. Some of the
men were loyal enough to sit with the
women.
	Out of this circumstance grew the first
woman’s rights convention in America, at
Seneca Falls, New York, July 19, 1848. The
dear old Quakeress Lucretia Mott, was the
leading spirit, being the first woman to
stand on the platform and speak for equal
suffrage. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, then on
her wedding tour, was one who stemmed
the tide of ridicule and opposition. Susan
B. Anthony, a young woman school teacher,
joined forces with the little band.
	We must not omit Margaret Fuller who,
early in the nineteenth century, stood with
the greatest men of that day for the high-
est development of woman.
	In other lines: higher education, temper-
ance, equal pay for equal work, etc., etc.,
let mention be made of Frances Willard,
whose statue stands in the hall of Congress,
Florence Nightingale, and Clara Barton,
whose life-long services for soldiers and
sailors have been honored the world over.
	Julia Ward Howe is considered by many
as the greatest woman of her time, a great
writer, speaker, poet and philanthropist.
Her “Battle Hymn of the Republic” has
won for her fame and favor wherever it
has been sung.
	Susan B. Anthony stands foremost, in
memory as the strongest minded of the
women of a century that has produced
many magnificent characters as examples
of greatness.
	Lucy Stone, whose career as a young
woman was very remarkable, and who
founded the Woman’s Journal in Boston,
over fifty years ago, deserves the gratitude
of the women of the world, for the Journal
has indeed been a blessing unto all.
	Women in the present day, who are do-
ing much in the way of achievement, both
in this and other countries, are more nu-
merous than in the past: Olive Schreiner,
in far off Africa, Ellen Key, Marie Corelli,
Sarah Bernhardt, Mme. Montford, and in
our own land, Caroline M. Severance, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, Jane Addams, May
Wright Sewall, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw, Rev. Olympia Brown, Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway, Bertha Honore Pal-
mer and Alice Stone Blackwell.
	The pioneer women of Utah faced all
sorts of difficulty with the courage of the
Pilgrim Fathers from whom many of them
were descended. One of the foremost is
Eliza R. Snow, a pioneer of 1847, a poet,
writer, and a woman of great spiritual
power. Her hymn, “O My Father,” has
been translated into many languages, and is
sung the world over. Zina D. H. Young
and her sister, Prescindia H. Kimball, pos-
sessed in a large degree the gift of healing.
Their names are household words wherever
known.

[Column 3]
	Sarah M. Kimball, one of the most pro-
gressive of the women of the west, stood as
firm for women’s equal rights with men
here in the west as Susan B. Anthony her-
self.
	These women who have been men-
tioned stand as types of others who have
given their best efforts for the elevation of
the human race; philanthropists in very
deed also, standing for purtity and right-
eousness.
	Now is the time for the younger women
to come forth and take hold and they must
not be “weary in well doing.” The way has
been paved through adverse circumstances
and now, in the enlightenment of the world
with all the new advantages they can gain
the goal for which all of these noble charac-
ters have been striving.


