	REYNOLDS.

"Let oureyes look upon Zion, let her be defiled."
	—MICAH.
	Let us enter the private scantuary of domestic
life, where to the honor of this great Republic,
the divinity of the marriage tie is acknowledged
and held sacred; and where virtue, the crowning
glory of the social circle, is bravely and success-
fully protected.
	There, let us with wanton cruelty defy the
sacred Constitution of our country, and by
trampling on the rights of conscience, sever the
holy bands of wedlock—separate husbands and
wives, parents and children and ignore the purest
affections of the human heart.
	Let us cause thousands of honorable loving
wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and their
offspring as bastards. Let us cause multitudes of
innocent children that are now tenderly cared,
provided for and educated, to be branded with in-
famy and deprived of heirship.
	Yea, let us desecrate the homes and extermin-
ate the only people of whom our nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence lest
their virtuous honorable example, shall, in the
present reign of corruption, rise up before us as a
burning reproof.
	Let us immure in solitary prisons those brave
men who, for the sake of worshiping God accord-
mg to the dictates of their consciences, left
their homes and the graves of their noble ances-
tors and sought refuge in the sterle American
Desert. Where, nerved by the power of faith in
the arm of Jehovah, in whom they trusted, for
awhile they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
come the barrenness of the soil, and made "the
desert blossom as the rose."
	Those were the men who, with their stalwart
sons, the offspring of celestial plural marriage,
with a stern, unyielding persevereance established
a connecting link between the commercial cities
of the East and the rich mining districts of the
West, and made practicable for the nation, the
Continental transit of the "iron horse."
	Let us erase from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosity
bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our perishing emigrants when their sup-
plies were exhausted as they were wending their
way through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a thriv-
ing, peaceful, insustrious community—a Terri-
tory brought into existence and made to flourish
without the aid, encouragement or protection
from the Government under which it exists.
	Yea, let us abrogate the rights of its founders
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators who have no in-
terest in common with the
	Instead of the Territory as it now is, a theme
of boast as a nucleus of peace, good orde


and happiness, let us, through our
crushing policy, present it to the nations
abroad, a spectacle of confusion, desola-
tion and woe.
	Let us tear asunder that mighty shield of the
rights of conscience, our glorious Constitution—
let us place our veto on the commands of the
Almighty and presume to measure arms with
the Great Ruler of the Universe.

	Thus saith the Supreme Court of the United
States of America, the court of final decision, the
highest Tribunal of a great and powerful nation,
the last earthly resort to which the oppressed can
appeal for protection, and suffering innocence,
for redress.
