ENGRAVINGS.

	These engravings are said by the most compe-
tent judges to be the finest and most accurate
portraits of the Prophet and Patriarch ever pub-
lished. They are full page pictures, printed in
the most artistic manner, and are alone worth
half the price of subscription charged for the
magazine.
	The volume will contain Historical Sketches
of the Buchanan Campaign of 1857, being an ac-
count of the causes and notable incidents of the
Echo Canyon War, taken from original docu-
ments. There is no epoch of the history of Utah
more romantic and interesting than the period
treated upon in this series.
	Historical, Biographical, Scientific, Literary
and Miscellaneous matter, from the pens of
Utah's young people and other writers, will add
to the value of the new volume.
	The Department devoted to Association Intel-
ligence will be much improved, containing, be-
sides minutes of important meetings, Queries
and Answers, Brief Correspondence, Model Pro-
grammes, etc.
	All the members of Associations are requested
to employ this department in asking any proper
questions that they may desire.
	Officers of Associations are urgently solicited
to take an active interest in the Magazine, writ-
ing and procuring suitable matter for its col-
umns, and doing all in their power to extend its
circulation among the people.
	Presidents of the Y. M. M. I. A. will please
act as agents.
	Terms of subscription, invariably in advance:

One year—including Engravings,...Two Dollars.
Six Months,..................One Dollar and a Half.

	Steel Engravings of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
India mounted on cards, 9 x 12 inches, for fram-
ing, One Dollar and a Half per pair.
	Agents getting up clubs of Fifteen Annual
Subscribers will receive an extra copy and a pair
of Engravings for framing, free.
	Associations getting up clubs of Ten will re-
ceive an extra copy free.
	Volumes One and Two, handsomely bound.
For sale at the Office. Price $2.50.
	Address—JUNIUS F. WELLS, Editor and
Publisher, Salt Lake City, Utah. P. O Box 305.
	Office, first door north of Z. C. M. I.
	Remittances should be made by P. O. Money
Order or Registered Letter.

