LAY UP SOME GRAIN.
	In consideration of the bountiful harvest of
Wheat and other grain which the people in this
valley are blest with, we would suggest that the
sisters recall to mind the request made of them
by President Brigham Young in the fall of 1876,
through the columns of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, and put in practice the sound advice then
given, To be sure there has been a commenda-
ble effort made to save some grain each year, and
the sisters have not been unmindful of the
counsel they recieved, but in this season of
plenty there might be almost as much done as in
all the preceding years, the prosperity seems to
be so much greater.
  If this golden opportunity goes by, and the
people become careless and indifferent to coun-
sel, because of the great abundance which the
Lord has given, it might be a source of sorrow
in days to come.  Be wise in time and lay by a
portion of the grain with which your labors have
been crowned.  Do not think it of less conse-
quence because of its abundance.  This counsel
was not given for one season, or two, but in or-
der that there might be something reserved
against a time of scarcity, a time of famine,
which has been prophesied of by ancient and 
modern prophets, and will be sure to come soon-
er or later, notwithstanding that at the present
time there seems to be no lack of any good
thing.


The trees are loaded with fruit till they bend
beneath the heavy burden. Vegetation is more
abundant in all its forms than usual. Even the
flowers have been more luxuriant and full, and
fragrance sweeter in proportion. Never was
there a lovelier summer than the present one;
Nature has worn her most royal robes of beauty,
and hill, dale, grove and woodland have rejoiced
the heart, and cheered and gladdened the eye of
man.
	The sisters in their various organizations have,
from time to time, been accumulating in their
bins and storehouses, little by little, and it has
seemed up hill work, and sometimes their cour-
age almost failed. In this plentiful season per-
haps much larger quantities may be gathered
up and preserved. Everything seems to suggest
the approach of great changes in nations and
governments and in view of this, and the fulfil-
ment of the predictions of seers and wise men,
it is well to "lay up something against a rainy
day," a day of less prosperity. Bread is more
precious and desirable than gold, or silver, or
gems. It is the duty of every wife, of every
mother to use her influence to promote agricul-
ture, for unless the earth is tilled and its pro-
ducts cultivated, of what benefit would be all
the gold of Golconda, Utah, Nevada, or all the
precious gems of the whole earth? Then let
us encourage the dignity of the farmer, the gar-
dener and all who follow the profession of out
Father Adam, and maintain the dignity of
Ruth, who was not ashamed to go and glean.
Then, perchance, there may be some land-
owners liberal enough to leave a few sheaves
for the pretty gleaners in the harvest field.


