MISCELLANEOUS.

	The devil tempts all; but the idle man
tempts the devil.—Italian Proverb.
	Language is not an instrument into which if
a fool breathe, it will make melody.—Godwin
Smith.
	It is strange that of all posssble tasks, sim-
ply to be what we are should prove not the
easiest, but infinitely the hardest.
	One of the most effectual ways of pleasing
and of making oneself loved is to be cheerful;
joy softens more hearts than tears.
	Faith, like light, should ever be simple and
unbending; while love, like warmth, should
beam forth on every side and bend to every
necessity.
	Our custom and habits are like the ruts in
roads; the wheels of life settle into them, and
we jog along through the mire because it is too
much trouble to get out of it.
	Depend upon it, in the midst of all the sci-
ence about the world and its ways, and all the
ignorance of God and His greatness, the man
or woman who can say, "Thy will be done,"
with the true heart of giving up, is nearer the
secret of things than the geologist and theolo-
gist.—George Macdonald.
	ENCOURAGEMENT.—Whenever you can con-
scientiously encourage any one, do so. You
would not leave those plants in your window-
boxes without water or refuse to open the shut-
ters that the sunlight might fall upon them;
but you leave some human flower to suffer from
want of appreciation or the sunlight of encour-
agement. There are a few hardy souls that can
struggle on stony soil—shrubs that can wait
for the dew and the sunbeams, vines that will
climb without kindly training—but only a few.
Utter the kind word when you can; give the
helping praise when you see that it is deserved.
The thought, that "no one cares and no one
knows," blights many a bud of promise. Whe-
ther it be the young artist at his easel, the
workman at his bench, the boy at his mathe-
matical problems, or the little girl at her piano,
give what praise you can, for many a one has
fallen by the way for the want of that word of
encouragement which would have "stablished
their feet."


[Column 1]
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
Special attention paid
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
