RUSTICATING.

	There lies in the southeastern part of Utah,
high up in the mountains, a pretty lake called
Panguitch, or by some Fish Lake; about two
miles long by a mile wide. Its depths are lit-
erally stocked with fresh pinky-colored sal-
mon trout. We are up here paying a sum-
mer's visit, and right pleasant it is, too. I
have traveled through the territory a great deal,
but the scenery near this lake surpasses all
that I have ever seen in Utah in grandeur and
beauty. One scene is gemmed in my memory.
A little vale, soft carpeted with changing
greens, surrounded by the mountain tops,
whose sides hold sentinel-pines that rise in
lofty pride and frown upon the quaken-asp
that trembles at their wrath. The little vale is
checkered here and there with silvery spots
that show which way the streamlet runs.
Across the shepherd drives his murmuring
sheep into the fold, and the lone hut bids wel-
come home with open door and curling smoke
to weary travelers. The pale blue sky, with
banks of dusky clouds, the lovely scene spread
out below, the hush and calm of Nature's bo-
som thrills me with unknown delight.	*	*
I sit here in the doorway of our unpretentious
cottage, and at my feet the lake is rippling
and curling as only lakes can do. Sometimes
I see reflected in its calm clear eyes the brown-
faced mountains opposite. Around the lake
rise wondrous hills with wooded tops. A little
valley with its light green meadows goes up to
meet the mountains on the west. Around,
about, and overhead the scene is beautiful.
Sometimes at twilight, the boat comes in to
shore, and o'er the waters floats the sound of
music. My eyes are filled with tears, and as
the singers chant, "Nearer, my God, to Thee,"
my heart is all too full for utterance. Some-
times we ride up in the canyons, and one such
trip I may describe to you, although my words
are tame and poor, compared with what the eye
would tell to you were you but here. Get in
our wagon and we will take you to the pretty
spring, whose depth gives it the name of "Blue
Spring." The road winds through the pines,
past running streams, and crosses over a mea-
dow to the hills beyond. We climb up a half
mile, swing round a little plateau, and here we
are. A perfect circle full 50 feet across holds
down in its bosom a faultless spring of ice cold
water. We scramble down the rim and walk
out on the pine tree flung from side to side, and
look down into this lakelet's pretty eyes. We
gather at its brink wild roses and geraniums,
and climbing up its sides we spread our shawls
beneath the trees, and drink in all the loveli-
ness of this lone spot. The wind tells mourn-
ful stories in the pines. One tale it tells is this:
A maiden in the far-off olden time, with sweet-
est eyes of blue, laid all she loved beneath the
sod. Down her cheeks there flowed a stream
of tears, and raising oft her eyes, she prayed to
Jove to let her watch over that dear grave for-
ever. The prayer was heard, and eyes of blue
were circled round with earth's broad arm and
down the hill, the tears flowed as a silver
stream, while lofty trees caught up the maid-
en's voice, and with their boughs bore to each
other the oft-told tale of love and constancy,
and so the eyes of blue, the sighing voice are
ever near the spot.			HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	The mortality in Salt Lake City for the
month of August was unusally large.

[Column 2]
		FOR SALE
Home-Made SILK,
AT
