HOME AFFAIRS.
  THE Primary Associations of Box Elder and
Utah Counties each expevt to have a Children’s
Fair this Fall
  SISTERS M. ISABELLA HORNE and Elmina S.
Taylor have gone North to attend the Sisters
Conference in Bear Lake Stake.
 Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son arrived safely in New York City.  They
traveled in company with Lieut. Willard Young.
  SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW'S book, "Questions
and Answers,' which she has recently been en-
gaged in preparing, is now in the hands of the
printers at the Juvenile Instructor Office. 			

 ANNIE EVA FAY PINGREE, known as “Eva
Fay” among literary and scientific people, is
spending a few days in this city.  She will give
two of her special scientific entertainments in
the Theatre, Friday and Saturday evenings.

 ERRATA.--In the late issue of the EXPONENT
No. 6, in the article, "Scenes in Nauvoo," by
Helen Mar Whitney, a passage occurs in her
mother's letter like this; “Joseph has been
afraid by the spirit"--it should read: “appraised
by the spirit"

 WOMENS' CONFERENCES:  Cache Stake will be
held in Logan, Saturday and Sunday, the 3d and
4th; Weber Stake Will be held in Ogden, Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday, 8th, 9th and 10th
Tooele Stake in T[--]ele City, Saturday and Sun-
day, 10th and 11th. Box Elder Stake at Brigham
City, 13th and 14th, and Sanpete Stake at Mo-
roni, 16th and 17th. Salt Lake Stake at Salt
Lake City, 23d and 24th inst's.

	THE Children’s Fair for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City in
September, commencing Septemer 22d, and not
5th, as stated previously.  It will continue
three days, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen C.
S. Clawson and her counselors and assistants.
Particulars will be given in the Deseret News
and the Exponent of September 15. Prices of
admission will be, adults 10 cents, children 5
cents.
	THE children of the Primary Assoclation of
West Jordan Ward have proven what can be
accomplished in  very short time by five cent
Temple donations. In three months their fund
amounted to six dollars and sixty cents, which
their president, Mrs. Eliza Bird, paid over to
Bishop Hunter on Thursday, August' 25th. It
is encouragin to see the little ones making such
noble efforts towards building up Zion, setting
an example worthy of imitation by many who
are negligent in these matters.
 THE semi-monthly meeting of the ladies in
the Fourteenth Ward, Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day. August 27th, was very interesting. Presi-
dent E. R. S. Smithr presided.  Opened by sing-
ing "We thank Thee, O God for a prophet;”
prayey by Counselor B. W. Smith; singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise.” Minutes were read
from the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Third Ward and
from two Primary Associations.  Sister Eliza
made some excellent remarks, which were very
gratifying to the sisters, and suggested those in
the audience should occupy the time. Many
testimonies were borne of the manifestation of
the healing power of God, and a goodly portion of
the Holy Spirit rested upon the congregation.
Towards the close of the meeting Counselors
B. W. Smith and Phebe Woodruff adressed the
meeting. Singing, ',O my Father,” etc.; prayer
by Counselor P. Woodruff. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks.

  A SELECT party of'the friends of Dr. Romania
B. Pratt, met at her residence on the evening of
August 8, ult., to celebrate the anniversary of
her birthday.  A few of her lady friends present-
ed her with a plain gold ring, as a slight token of
their sincere love and esteem, and some other
valuable presents.  A letter from one who was
unavoidably absent was read and its contents
accepted as the sentiment of those assembled.
The evening was passed in happy social con-
verse.
	Mrs. Pratt was the first woman graduate in
the medical profession among this people. At
a time and under circumstances which would
have seemed insurmountable to many, she left
her family of little children in the care of her
mother and went to Philadelphla, entered the
Woman’s Medical College, and graduated from
that institution with the title of M.D., which


she had faithfully earned, by her own energy
and perseverance.  She spent some time at the
Eye and Ear Infirmary, and at the Elmira
Water Cure Establishment, and a few months
at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. Mrs.
Pratt has a genuine love for the practice of med-
icine and surgery, and possesses within herself,
with the blessing of God upon her efforts,
all the possibilities of future success in
the profession she has chosen.  Though
small in stature she has already proven
herself a brave little woman and equal to the
emergency in some very difficult and complicat-
ed cases.  Utah may well be proud of her wo-
men doctors and in a Territory where women
have the ballot it is only proper to suppose that
they will make some proficiency in the higher
branches of education and advancement.
	On Wednesday afternoon, August 12th, in
company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and E. C.
S. Cl-wson, we had the pleasure of attending a
meeting of the Primary Association in the 21st
Ward, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding.  Mrs. Emma
Tune and quite a number of the children from
the 20th Ward Primary Association were also
present, by invitation.  The weather was not
propitious, but notwithstanding the pouring rain
there was a goodly number assembled together.
Meeting opened by singing, "Children of the
Saints," prayer by Sister E. Gange; singing,
"Don't Kill the Birds."  The President made a
few remarks, and the minutes were read and
accepted.  The programme previously prepared
then began with a dialogue upon "Liquor Sa-
loons," by Eva Barfoot and Julia Webb; song, 
Robert Jones; recitation, Annie Broadbent;
song, Ella Olsen and Alice Sanders; recitation, 
Sarah Ann Rogers; recitation, Margaret Irish; 
flute duet, Joseph Smith and John Owen; reci-
tation, Herbert Folger; recitation, Emma Rog-
ers; duet, Bertha Bailiss and Kate Williams; 
recitation, Annie Irish; recitation, Amelia
Hanson; recitation, Emily Irish; song, Rose
Miller, "Little Acts of Kindness;" recitation, 
Elizabeth Nixon; organ and flute duet, Fewson 
Smith and John Miller. 
   The visitors then made brief remarks and
suggestions.  Sister Eliza referred to the book of 
questions and answers she was engaged in pre-
paring, that it would be a great help to the offi-
cers in imparting instruction.  Miss Emily
Hanson was nominated and sustained to act as
Counselor to the President of the Primary As-
sociation.  Mrs. Davis stated that they had
enrolled the names of 176 children, their average
attendance is about 75.  Meeting closed with
singing "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
prayer by Master Thomas Mulholland.  Ad-
journed for one week.  This association has only
been organized about three months, but is in a 
most prosperous condition.


