THE INFLUENCES OF HOME.

	What tender emotions cling about the word
home! What depths of human feeling are
stirred by the ba[-]e mention of the word!
Home is the place to which one ever turns in-
stinctively in times of trial, of sorrow, or ad-
versity. "Home is home, be it ever so homely,"
is one of the truest of homely phrases. Home
should be a place of happiness; that is, such
happiness as mortals may enjoy in this life; and
when it is really so, how doubly precious and
significant is the term. Home is said to be
where the heart is, and home is not home if
peace does not dwell there, and tranquility and
such influences as promote and strengthen the
growth of virtue and the elevation of charac-
ter. Home to us seems a real place of dwell-
ing, not a temporary shelter, which may be
changed every month; such is not THE HOME
one can turn to with strength of affection, and
cling to as the foundation of character. Home
is the place with which we were familiar in
the days of our youth, when we experienced
the joys and sorrows, the mortifications and
disappointments of childhood; where we were
taught the principles which tended to exalt
and strengthen character. The very nature
of one's surroundings have the most powerful
tendency over them, and the effect of scenery
upon character is a noticeable feature in the
history of nations. Those who dwell in cer-
tain localities partake of the nature of the
country, it is inherent in their very being, and
develop certain characteristics that impress
all their after life. Much depends upon home
discipline, the habits inculcated with tender
years, the principles taught at the mother's
knee, the impression made in such a way, at
times of quiet thought and restfulness, are al-
most ineffaceable throughout all time.
	Confidence in the home among the inmates
is one of the firmest pillars of strength in the
structure of the character of the young. The
father and mother must have the confidence of
the child, if they would keep him from the
paths of evil, for however pure the home may
be, evil exists outside, and the moment the
child steps out from that home influence, he
must meet it. It is for this the little child
must be strengthened, and in no way can he so
well be protected from, or helped in resisting
evil, as by having the full confidence of the
parents, to go to father or mother in any
doubt, or when tempted to do wrong


If the child feels there is perfect sympathy
or harmony between father and mother, there
will be a greater power for good, [---] organ-
ization of that child. Those who do no[----]
to have settled homes, but live in hotels or
lodgings, have very little idea, it seems to me,
of the impression made upon character by the
social influences of home and its appointments
and surroundings.
	Mothers cannot be too careful of the home-
life; children are very keen-eyed, very watch-
ful. They soon discover any discrepancy, any
lack of duty or respect from any one member
of the family towards another, and although
there are none of us perfect in this life; in fact
all are very imperfect, yet it is much better to
show a spirit of humility and forbearance
even towards our children than to attempt to
conceal or disguise that which is likely to mis-
lead or destroy confidence in the family rela-
tions.
	I do not think too much can be said of home
influences, for it is the homes of the people
that elevate the nation. We can never attain
any great degree of progression, as a people,
without neat, orderly, healthy, well-regulated
homes; those countries where strife, confusion
and oppression are the ruling elements have
miserable homes.
	The more refined the home,the more intense-
ly cultivated in heart and soul the inmates of
that household, and all who associate there
partake of that refining, elevating, purifying
influence, and the dwellers in that home carry
that elevation into other homes.

	"The world has nothing to bestow;
	From our own selves our joys must flow,
	And that dear hut—our home."

	Let mothers encourage their sons to have
homes of their own, be they ever so lowly and
humble; if love be the inmate, if sweet peace
and contentment sit with the happy pair by the
fireside; if the young couple work together to
promote each other's interest and enjoyment, the
poorest dwelling is a happier home than the
grandest palatial residence of the rich without
these essential elements of human happiness.

	"Domestic happiness! thou only bliss
	Of paradise that has survived the fall."

	How man are there who have lived a long
and useful life, who began with almost nothing,
but by energy and perseverance made them-
selves a home, perhaps built it with their own
hands, planted the trees, and watched them
year after year as they grew to maturity, and
as time rolled on, gathered little by little
the comforts and elegancies of prosperity in a
home where in the evening of life they may
rest after the struggles with labor and toil are
over.						AUNT EM.


