A FEW INCIDENTS.

	Desiring to inspire faith in the minds of our
young people, I have decided to publish some
items from manuscript which I have in my
possession, that I think will be interesting to
the readers of the EXPONENT. It will also
give to the young some idea what their mothers
and the veteran women of this Church have
endured for the principles of this faith, or for
the Gospel's sake. These items are from the
writings of a lady now deceased, Louisa B.
Pratt of Beaver.
	"I have had deep experience in this kingdom:
having spent over 40 years in active service. I
was raised under the influence of the Episcopal
Church; continued steadfast in that faith until
I heard the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel,
revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in
this our day. And verily it was by the power
and goodness of God that it was made known
to me, for I would not believe the testimony of
the Elder who taught me, although I knew him
to be a man of candor and truth. I had known
the Scriptures from my childhood, and I knew
his teachings were in strict accordance with the
apostolic doctrines, yet I would not acknow-
ledge it to him. At length I resolved to know
independent of any human testimony. So with
all the energy with which my soul was endowed,
I cried unto the Lord, and suddenly the light
burst upon my heart like the sun breaking forth
from behind a dark cloud when the sky is
clothed in blackness; the Bible was in my hand
and had it been printed in golden capitals and
been of doubtful meaning it would not have
looked half so beautiful; joy unutterable, per-
meated my whole existence. One week passed
away, I was conscious of realizing more true
joy in that short time than in all the years of
my life, which numbered 35.
	We were living on the banks of Lake Erie,
enjoying all the comforts and many of the lux-
uries of life. Jackson County, Missouri was
then the centre of attraction in my mind. My
husband was an unbeliever. He invited a Bap-
tist preacher to visit us, hoping by powerful
arguments he would convince me of my error,

[Column 2]

as he listened to our discussion he saw the fal-
lacy and lameness of his reasoning, and dis-
cerned that the Bible was a sealed book to the
noted preacher. He went to Kirtland on pur-
pose to learn what he could of the origin of the
work which was creating such excitement
through the country. While there became
convinced of its truth and was baptised. He
returned, and testified to his astonished breth-
ren of the Presbyterian order of the great
things he had seen and heard, but they would
not believe. In process of time we found our-
selves﻿ identified with the Saints in Nauvoo; en-
listed hearts and hands to build the Temple. In
1843 Mr. Pratt was called on a mission to the
Pacific Isles. Our property was invested in
land, in the State of Indiana; there was no
ready means to be left for my support, with
four young children, all daughters. I felt that
I must nerve my heart to contend "against the
world, the flesh and the devil." The Saints
were poor, I must "paddle my own canoe." I
formed my plans and commenced in earnest;
great was my trust in God. I had never
learned to distrust men who had the reputation
of being just; but I found that even such ones
sometimes failed, while others were better than
their promises.
	I adopted a rule which I have ever since
found to be invaluable. I determined that my
word should be my bond, and though I promised
to my loss, I made that promise good. This
more than all else of my experience in battling
the storms of life alone, I wish published, for
the encouragement of numbers of my sisters
who like me are left to manage their own busi-
ness and provide for their families. I had
acquired a tolerable education in the govern-
ment schools in Lower Canada; was capable of
teaaching all the common branches, besides I
was a good seamstress. I was left in a small
log house, I immediately set about building a
framed house, buying the lumber on credit.
By the time the building was completed I had
won the reputation of being a punctual business
woman. I was proud of my house, lived in it
three winters, had to make a sacrifice of it when
we left Nauvoo; never realising but $15,00 in
exchange for the house and two City Lots.
Soon after my companion left home, serious
accidents happened to my children, one was
nearly crushed to death by the fall of a seat
loaded with people. The young children who
were with her ran through the crowd asking for
Elders to come and administer to the poor girl:
they did so, and she was brought home to me as
from the dead. I never thought of a Doctor,
but there was earnest pleading with Him who
has power to heal; and before the dawn of the
coming morn she was cheerful and able to re-
late the whole affair; and soon she was wholly
restored, and my heart comforted. The next
that happened the small pox was brought to
the place by the return of my brother-in-law
from Mass. coming up the Miss., on a Steamer.
Hearing of his return, I hurried with my four
children to the house to see him. My two
eldest had been vaccinated the other two had
not. I myself had been, likewise my sister, 17
years before. I stood by his bedside, gazing
upon him with wonder; the children standing
by. He told me to be on my guard, he feared
what it might be; and I withdrew. The neigh-
bors were alarmed when they found I had
been exposed, they would not venture them-
selves into my house.
	The fears of my friends excited faith in me

[Column 3]

to resist the power of the destroyer. I reasoned
with them, that they should help me to have
faith in the power of God, that He would not
suffer such an affliction to come on me when
my husband had been called on a foreign mis-
sion to preach the Gospel of Christ, and left
me to bear the burdens of life alone. My faith
increased as I uttered the words, and I declared
in the name of the Lord that the small pox
should not come under my roof that I would
claim the right to resist it by the power of
God! one child I watched closely, praying
continually that I might not have to recall my
words. At the close of the 9th day I saw symp-
toms of fever, a tremor in the neck. I laid
the girl in the upper room, and struggled with
my determination. At length I discovered on
the knee and fingers of the child nine very
small pimples; still I did not waver or doubt.
Seeing a brother on the street whom I knew
would not be afraid, I took the child to him
to be examined, he having been acquainted
with the disease pronounced it an attack, in
mild form, that it would not enlarge, nor do
her harm, but would prevent in all future her
taking the disease. The same proved true to
the letter as she was afterwards exposed in Cali-
fornia when the tyrant was making fearful
ravages. Then did I render thanks that my
daughter was proof against the direst of all ail-
ments.


