		REPORTS.

	The ladies regular semi-monthly meetings in
the 14th ward in this city are still continued
although of late we have omitted publishing on
account of so many conference minutes from
different parts of the Territory; but as these
meetings are of special consequence we deem it
wise to make notices now and then for the
benefit of those who have not the privilege of
attending.  These meetings may be compared
to the high school department of womens' or-
ganizations.  
	Saturday July 30. Counselor Sarah M. 
Kimball presided in the absence of the Presid-
ent M. Isabella Horne.  After the usual exer-
cises, minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted, also minutes of the 12th, and 11th, 
ward Primary Associations.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was the first speaker, she
referred to this as the vacation season, and
thought the physical condition affected the
spiritual somewhat.  Mentioned that Sister
Eliza R. S. S., who had been so long away was
present also Sister Horrocks who had just re-
turned from St. George.  
	Sister E. R. S. Smith, said she had come more
particularly to electioneer, that it was an im-
portant point; she had been very little with her
sisters in the city for eight months, but realized
how beautiful was the love of sisterhood, es-
pecially when the tie is the Gospel.  Our Father
has appointed for our growth and advancement
our meeting together.  "These said the Savior
"will I make my jewels."  These blessings
which it is our privilege to obtain how impor-
tant.  What consequences depend upon our
course!  Everything else in comparison with
eternal riches is as nothing.  In arrang-
ing questions and answers for the children, 
when I find that only two were permitted to
enter the land of Canaan--it seems strange. 
But we find that these two wholly honored God.  
Even Moses took honor to himself.  When 
thirsting and God gave him the rod and told
him what to do, he spoke to the children of
Israel as though it was of his own power the
miracle was performed, the Lord showed that
He would be obeyed.  I feel that every one
present is a follower of the Lord.  It requires
great strength to do the will of God. Whether 
attending to home duties or as minute women
called to perform some extra service, we can
little by little, bring every power into the service
of God.  Cannot God avert the hand of the
destroyer?  We can feel affliction but cannot so
plainly see the wisdom thereof.  The little ones
are being gathered home.  Our Father has
said that in the last days He would lay up
much precious seed for Himself.  Let us my 
sisters try to draw a little nearer to God, hold
a little nearer communion with him.  I think
we can to a considerable extend mould ourselves
to his purposes.  The Spirit of God will not
approve of excessive grief.  The virtue lies in
overcoming grief.  Who has the same means
to assist them in overcoming the sorrow of death
that the Saints of God have.  I have wondered 
how those who have not the knowledge that we
have can bear up.  But there are worse ills
than death.  To turn away from the faith.  
	Remember to-morrow is election day.  It is
our duty to vote, sisters let no trifling thing
keep you at home.  So many brethren are
away, that every sister should be prompt, and
help sustain those in office that will sustain the
kingdom of God.  
	Sister C. Horrocks, spoke of her recant visit
to St. George. and that the remembrance of it
and her visit to the Temple almost overcome
her; said she felt to try and live to the teach-
ings given there, and here in the sisters meet-
ings.  
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, felt it was good to
attend the meetings for she always had her
spirit fed and strengthened there.  It is a 
great privilege that we can go to the polls and
vote and elect those men who are best for such
trustworthy positions, It is the very end that
the most talented women of the world are
striving for.  It is particularly important in
Utah that we be careful who presides over us.
We are getting so comfortable that we are also
becoming careless when we find ourselves sur-
rounded and overcome; we will begin to call on
the Lord to deliver us.  But it is our duty to
help ourselves.  Every woman who has the
franchise should use it.  Sisters your individual
influence may be a lever in the community.
We are entitled to maintain honest men in posi-
tion.  We have the right so to do.  Let us
think what would be our fate were we once to 
lose power.  There is a set determination to
overcome this people.  If we would not have
past injustices repeated, we must look to our-
selves. 
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson. Spoke very eloquently
upon the suffrage question said she had been in-
terested in and engaged in working for suffrage
twenty years; when she came to Utah and
learned with what wisdom women used the
ballot; she wished those in the East could under-
stand the benefit. When the children of Israel 
departed from the teachings given them they
suffered in consequence.  If we prove negligent
the Lord may suffer us to become in bondage
to those who would oppress us.  Outside men
are elected by party rather than by the people.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball:  said she had intended
to go to the Primary Meetings but was hindered
by a caller she had since wished she had invited
him to go with her; felt we were under obliga-
tions to give attention to public matters.  
"Every privilege becomes a duty."
	"Mrs. B. W. Smmith thought all citizens
should go to the polls and vote the right ticket.  
If we sisters elect our party we may receive some 
favors we desire;  if our enemies are elected we
may be disfranchised.  Sisters use your influ-
ence with others for good.  
	Mrs. P. L. Kimball:  It is of vital importance
to us as a people that we hold the reins of gov-
ernment in our own hands as much as possible.  
Deduct the womens' vote and see what might
follow.  Leave your work on Monday morning
until you have voted, and be sure you have
the right ticket.  I have never missed voting
since the ballot was given to the women of Utah.  
Meeting adjourned for two weeks singing dox-
ology.  Benediction by Mrs. May A. Freeze.  
	14th Ward Saturday Aug. 13.   Mrs. M. I. 
Horne presiding.  After singing and prayer
minutes were read from 11th, 12th, 18th, 10th, 
ward Primary Associations.  Sister Horne
made some remarks upon principle and recom-
mended the sisters to use herbs and faith in-
stead of employing outside physicians, thought
faith and works should go together.  I believe in
our women employing midwives instead of male 
physicians, those that have the inspiration of
God many times to preserve, as Moses was saved 
in his day.  Those who are called to teach
should speak of these things and of existing
evils.  Doctors often extort from the poor un-
justifiably, such things should be remedied.  If
you employ a Doctor adhere to their direction.  
Dr. Ferguson has said that sulphur and cream
of tartar given twice a week to children would
prevent throat diseases.  The revelations given
by Joseph Smith are more particularly adapted 
to us.  We are to be tried, there is no excel-
ency attained without exertion.  Let us seek 
to perfect ourselves before the Lord.  
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, said those that attended
these meetings are the wheat; those that watch
and pray and try to set a good example and
try to live the religion of Christ.  We do not
exercise as much faith as we shouold.  The Lord
is able to do all things for our good and the
good of our children.  I hope the sisters who 
go out to represent us in the world may be 
belssed.  
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, spoke of her visit to Mor-
gan Co., they had live institutions there, more
active than in Salt Lake, we ought to be more
appreciative because we have greater advan-
tages than the women of the world.   Why have
any of the Saints lost their former faith.  I
fear there is a wrong in some in placing too
much faith in physicians, who do not under-
stand as much as they profess.  God should be
our great physican.  
	Mrs H. C. Young, said we do not realize as
we should the responsibility that we bear be-
fore God to the people; we should enter the
house of God with pure minds.  Spoke upon
plural narriage and tithing, the organization of
the human system how supported etc. 
	Mrs. M. P. Young and Mrs. M. I. Horne
made some suggestive remarks and the meet-
ing was adjourned for two weeks with singing
and prayer by Mrs. Julia Howe.  

