BROMPTON SQUARE.

	On Thursday the 12th of July, a drawing-room
meeting was held at the residence of Miss Cour-
tenay, Brompton Square. Amongst those pre-
sent were Lord Stratheden and Campbell, Col-
onel Morrison, Mr. Newton Scott, Miss Frances
Power Cobbe, Miss Becker, Miss Tod, Miss
Biggs, Miss Courtenay, and several others.
	Miss BECKER, in opening the proceedings, ex-
plained that the object of the meeting was the
extension of the parliamentary franchise to
women who posessed the same qualifications
that entitled men to vote. They desired the
franchise not only as an act of justice, but be-
cause the denial of it created a great deal of
mischief to women and to society. Men often
call upon women to take part of certain duties,
but the part which they ask them to take con-
sisted principally in the relief of suffering, or
the mending or repairing of some blunder. She
hoped women would be willing always to come
forward to relieve suffering; but it was beginning
at least to be seen by the more thoughtful that
the prevention of suffering was more important
than the mere relief of it. To her mind women
should have a voice in the prevention of suffer-
ing as well as take part in the alleviation of it
when it existed. The Woman's Suffrage So-
ciety was very earnest in pressing forward the
movement of giving the suffrage to women, and
in endeavoring to circulate a knowledge of its
principles; and it was by means of gatherings
like the present meeting that those principles
were brought forward into quarters which the
ordinary channels—public meetings—for dis-
seminating information in regard to the views
of the society did not reach. Much benefit to
the movement might be brought about by such
gatherings as the one they were that day at-
tending. (Hear, hear.)
MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE spoke in sup-
port of the principle. She maintained that the
movement for extending the suffrage to women
had been generally represented by its opponents
as being highly revolutionary. Its opponents
seem to think that if the right of voting were
granted to women, disastrous results would
follow; and the friends of the movement very
naturally, when they heard such things, were
anxious to try and make out that the giving
the suffrage to women would be a very small
affair, and they went back to the ancient per-
iods, when women used to vote, to show that
formerly women did exercise the franchise.
She did not think either of the views represented
by these two classes were exactly the correct
ones. It simply amounted to this, that in all
ages and times the weaker races and classes
were subject to the stronger ones. It was so in
the days of ancient Greece and Rome. In
Rome the poor slaves had to do the work, and
when they attempted to revolt, 6,000 of them
were crucified. When they came to the feudal
times it was the same thing, the serfs being the
subordinate class. The idea which she wanted
to put forward was that the giving of political
rights to the weaker classes was a notion of
modern times. Women in former times evi-
dently had no political rights, but now a period
had arrived in which all classes were beginning
to assert their rights, and therefore, she looked
upon the affording the suffrage to women not
as a wonderful revolution, but simply as an
inevitable step in the gradual progress of free-
dom throughout the world. (Applause.)
Freedom was proceeding from class to class
and from sex to sex, and the consummation
would be reached when men and women en-
joyed equal privileges. It must not be im-
agined that it was a humiliating assertion to
say that women were a weaker class. As
regards enforcing their rights they were cer-
tainly weaker—they could not pull down park

[Column 2]

railings—(a laugh)—and make the same dis-
turbances that men could—and persons were
apt to confound the want of physical power to
asert rights with the lack of power to see
wisely and judiciously what was for the public
benefit. Now in her opinion these were two
distinct things. Miss Cobbe here read some
extracts from Mr. Kinglake's work upon the
Crimean war, pointing out how badly the sick
were managed in the hospitals out at the
Crimea, her object being to show the different
way in which the female brain worked to that
of man in time of difficulty. Everything she
said, was done by the officers to improve matters,
which instead of getting better got worse.
Ultimately female aid was sent for and ob-
tained, and the state of affairs began to bright-
en up. The speaker having read some other
passages from Mr. Kinglake's work eulogising
Miss Nightingale, and referring to the great
faculties possessed by that lady, concluded by
saying that if there were only one or two Miss
Nightingales, there might still however be a 
considerable number of women quite as good as
some of those who at present got a share in the 
government. (Applause.
	Miss TOD remarked that both of the preced-
ing speakers had alluded in an informal way to
the fact that women had taken a part in public
life, and perhaps a considerable part when it
was remembered  what had been done. This
empire could not have been created had it not
been for the large and important share which
women had taken in the efforts and sacrifices
which had been made to build up its grand
history. What they were then asking for wo-
men was much more new in form than sub-
stance. Until a comparatively recent date no
very large number of men of the ordinary
middle and lower classes had a voice in the
affairs of the State, except in an indirect way.
The Reform Bills actually lessened the political
influence of women, unless they too, upon the
same conditions as the men possessed the vote,
were granted the suffrage, because those Bills
gave the men power out of all proportion to
that possessed by women. Till a comparatively
recent date the difference in that amount of
political power possessed by men over women
was not nearly so great as it was at present,
and therefore it was of importance that the
balance should be restored by giving to women
the parliamentary franchise. Women had
duties to perform to the country at large, and
the qualities which they could bring into public
life were those which to a great extent were
needed. She remembered some years ago talk-
ing to a member of the French army who was
in favor of the Empire, and was very much
struck by what that gentleman said when he
stated "that Parliaments and Assemblies were
feminine modes of government." Government
by free and open discussion and not by force—
that was by force of mind rather then physical
strength—was undeniably one in which women
could take their full rights, and it must be re-
membered that the Government of England
was a government by discussion. It was in
Parliament that all the thoughts, feelings, and 
desires, all the wants, wrongs, and interests of
the nation were discussed, and the essence and
value of such discussion was not so much the
work done as the discussion itself—the free in-
terchange of opinion amongst reasonable people.
It was the duty of women to claim their rights,
and she wished to impress upon ladies that they
ought not to set aside their duties. It was nec-
essary that they should assert their rights, and
it was the duty of every woman householder to
endeavor to obtain for herself and for her sisters
the parliamentary franchise. (Hear, hear.)
	The discussion was continued by Mr. Newton
Scott, Miss C. A. Biggs, Miss Cobbe, Miss Tod,
Miss Becker, Colonel Morrison, and Miss Cour-
tenay, and after partaking of refreshment the
party separated.


