BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Societies and Primary Associa-
tions of the Bear Lake Stake held a Confer-
ence at Ovid on the 27th and 28th of August.
The attendance was very good, and we were
much blessed with the presence of the good
Spirit.
	We were favored with the company of Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor from Salt
Lake City. Their instructions to the sisters,
both young and old, were very appropriate
and remarkably clear, and will doubtless be
long remembered.
	The Young Ladies' Associations have for
some time past been holding their Conferences
in conjunction with the Young Men's M. I.
Associations, but they were advised to meet in
Conference hereafter with the Relief Societies.
The reports given by the Ward Presidents
were generally encouraging, and showed that
much interest was taken by the sisters in as-
sisting to accomplish the purposes of our Hea-
venly Father.
	President Wm. Budge also favored us with
his company during both days and made some
very interesting repmarks.
	Presidents Julia Lindsay and Elizabeth Col-
lings made some instructive remarks, each ex-
pressing their good feelings and satisfaction
with the meetings, and that there were present
so many brethren to encourage them in their
labors.
	Sister Annie Laker, President of the Pri-
mary Associations, and Counselor E. Pugmire
and others also occupied some time in making
some very kind and profitable remarks.
	We had altogether a pleasant and encourag-
ing time.
	JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Secy.

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms convened
as usual Saturday afternoon, Sept. 10th, at 2
p.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
	Sister Horne was the first speaker. She re-
ferred to the recent visit of herself and Sister
E. S. Taylor to Bear Lake Valley; spoke of
the interest the brethren manifested there in
leaving their harvesting and coming over 20
miles to attend the sisters' two days Confer-

[Column 2]

ence, which was held at Ovid; the brethren
built a bowery in which to hold the meetings.
Sister Taylor, when with her, was taken sick, and
she held meetings at Bloomington, St. Charles
and Liberty, without her help. Said she knew
of no other young ladies more wide awake than
the President and her two counselors of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Bear Lake Stake; gave much
good spiritual instruction.
	Minutes of Primary Associations of the 11th
and 20th Wards were read.
	Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson made some re-
marks and announced that the Primary Fair
would be held in the Social Hall, Sept. 22, 23
and 24. Said she would like each ward or
settlement designated by its own banner and
in charge of its respective president. There
would be some considerable expenses, and
should charge 10 cents for adults and 5 cents
for children. Would like all articles brought
in the Tuesday and Wednesday previous. "If
we have a Fair next year, we shall give a prize
to the little girl who will make the best bread."
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made a few remarks and
said she realized the judgments of God were
being poured upon the earth; rejoiced in the
principles of the gospel.
	Mrs. M. P. Young said let us speak of the
good in each other and bury those things that
are evil; it is good to treasure up precious
things.
	Sister P. Kimball thought the sovereign of
the throne of England did not enjoy the peace
within her soul that was enjoyed by the daugh-
ters of Zion, the hand-maidens of the Lord.
"Look at our homes and fields. Would we
have thought when this Church was organized
of the positions women occupy to-day. My
duties are among the daughters of Zion. Some-
times I look beyond the veil toward those who
have gone before us, and wish to live to do a
work in the Temple for those who were mine
before the gospel came to me.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she could not add
much to what had been said by Sister Horne
concerning the visit north, but felt that the
country people were very diligent; said also
she feared many of the Saints would be slum-
bering when the Bridegroom came, like the
foolish virgins. By our works would we be
judged.
	Sisters Ann Brimley, Sinah Bishop, Caro-
line Raleigh, Martha B. Young, L. Greene
Richards and Julia Howe each made a few in-
teresting remarks and bore faithful testimo-
nies of the truth.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
Sister Julia Howe.

