ARTISTIC NEEDLE WORK.

	Among other revivals of the olden time we
notice that of artistic needle-work. It was
the favorite occupation many years ago of fe-
male royalty and ladies of high degree. Years
were spent in ornamental tapestry, and to excel
in work of this sort was deemed one of the
highest accomplishments. It is now being re-
vived as an industrial occupation for women.
We clip the following notice from one of our
Exchanges, which may be interesting to those
who admire exquisite work with the needle:
	"The New York Sun says that very few
persons are aware of the extent to which art
needlework and art decoration are now culti-
vated in that city. The Society of Associated
Artists, which includes among its members
some of the best-known names of American
painters and sculptors, now opens a wide field
for the employment of women of artistic taste
and talent. The enormous prices that are
cheerfully paid by men of large wealth for the
beautifying of their city and country homes,
has made it quite worth while for artists of no
mean reputation to turn their thoughts from
the production of unsalable oil and water-color
pictures to the frescoing of ceilings, the design-
ing of wall-papers, and, above all, to the execu-
tion of picturesque hangings and curtains for 
theatres, club-rooms and private dwellings up
town. The hangings and wall decorations for
the drawing-room of Cornelius Vanderbilt's
new house are already in the hands of Louis
C. Tiffany's large corps of lady embroiderers,
under the management and superintendance of
Mrs. Wheeler and Miss Cutler. For this one


room alone Mr. Vanderbilt has agreed to pay
from $8,000 to $10,000, the magnitude of which
sum will give some idea of the expenditure of
time, talent, and labor involved. The hang-
ings of the Union League Club House and the
curtains of the Madison Square Theatre, which
is, perhaps, the most beautiful specimen of art
needlework in the world, were designed and
executed by the above named ladies, with the
assistance of the band of artists who work
under them, To Mr. Lafarge has been con-
fided the manufacture of the portieres and cur-
tains for Mr. Vanderbilt's library and dining
room, and the full sized cartoons elaborately
drawn and painted, which are to serve as mod-
els to the ladies who are to reproduce them on
silks, satins and velvets, will soon be ready for
inspection in Miss Tillinghast's studio.—Ex.


