THE PRESIDENT. 

	Everything connected with President Garfield
is intensely interesting at the present time to all
loyal Americans and to many others. The news-
papers were never so watched for unless in the
recent war as they are now. Yet the telegrams
are nearly all unsatisfactory and sometimes
one cannot help feeling they are also unreliable,
for the most contradictory reports are occasion-
ally received; one day one will become quite
elated with the idea of his speedy recovery and
the next feel he is sure to die. Strange, too, that
it was never even hinted before that the White
House was unhealthy; others seemed to thrive
exceedingly well in the malarial atmosphere if
such it be. If President Garfield had not been
wounded, the people would probably have been
in blessed ignorance yet of the unhealthy home
of the Chief Executive of the Republic.
	However, we are very glad President Garfield
has succeeded in his wish or desire to go to Long
Branch and sincerely hope the sea breeze will
prove invigorating to the Nation's invalid. The
latest news seems more favorable to his recovery
than any of recent date. To be able to sit up
even in an invalid's chair is encouraging, and
savors of convalescence. President Garfield has
shown himself a truly brave man by his patient
endurance of pain and confinement. It is hard
for a strong, active man to be laid low without
a moment's warning, and that he has never com-
plained or manifested feelings of hatred or re-
venge, endears him a thousand times more to his
friends and countrymen, as well as givi[-]g them
assurance he is not only a man of nerve and
great nobility of character, but patient, capable
of wonderful endurance and withal, a sincere
Christian.
	But what of the wife and mother, have they
not also suffered? Yes, if not physically, men-
tally and spiritually, this suffering must have
at times been terrible. But there are now strong
grounds for hope of speedy relief and restora
tion, yet not without doubts and misgivings in
the minds of those best acquainted with actual
facts. Still, the country stands as it were, and
waits for the issue. Life and death are in the
hands of Him, who knows what is best and who
doeth all things well.


[Column 1]
