OBITUARY.

	Died: in Salt Lake City, August the 6th,
1881, Sarah Beanland, wife of Joseph Bean, and
daughter of the late John and Elizabeth Bean-
land, of Springwood Place, Bolton, near Bradford,
Yorkshire, England.
	She was born September 1st, 1821, and shortly
after her husband received the Gospel as restored
in these latter days, she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, May
1st, 1843. She emigrated with her husband to
the United States in fulfillment of the divine
command "to gather out from among the na-
tions," in 1855, but could only proceed as far as
Cincinnati, for lack of means. Her determined
purpose in the great Latter-day work, and her
unswerving faith in the protecting care of the
Almighty were well exhibited in the fortitude
displayed by her on the voyage across the sea.

[Column 2]

Situated as emigrants were, in the steerage of
sailing vessels, under such unpropitions circum-
stances she gave birth to a daughter, her exu-
berant spirits never flagging, nor her rejoicings
ceasing in the faith and power of her holy relig-
ion.
	In 1859 she crossed the plains for Utah. On
account of the heavy loading of the ox teams
there were but few miles of the long journey
that she did not walk and carry her infant plod-
ding, day after day, through the burning sands
of the Black Hills, but never a murmur or com-
plaint was heard to pass her lips. When almost
exhausted herself she could be seen encouraging
others, of her wearied companions, in the good-
ness of God, and the bright prospects that awaited
them in glorious Zion. Arriving in Salt Lake
City, she with her husband and family, settled
in the 11th Ward, where she continued to reside
until her death. She filled the position of coun-
selor to Sister McRae, president of the Relief
Society, which position gave her ample oppor-
tunity for the exercise of those gifts so prominent
in her, being unbounded benevolence and solici-
tude for the welfare of others. Whatever the
vicissitudes of life, her uncomplaining nature
always wore the pleasing aspect of a contented
mind. She portrayed a meekness, and patience, 
and a devotedness to her husband and family,
her religion and her God, as becoming a Saint.
She was a faithful wife and mother unto death,
valiant in the testimony of Jesus, her hopes
never flagging nor her faith wavering in the
promises of eternal life. She was the mother of
eleven children and had nineteen grand child-
ren.  After an attack of cholera morbus, which
lasted two days, she succumbed to the power of
the destroyer. She retained her consciousness
up to the hour of her death, and passed away
as peacefully as in a gentle sleep, in the full as-
surance of a resurrection with the just, to reign
with Christ upon the earth.—Des. News.

	Sister Naomi R. daughter of David Lebaron
and Zuba King, and wife of James S. Holman,
deceased, after an illness of three days, departed
this life at 7 o'clock P. M., on Thursday the 11th,
inst at Holden Millard Co. Utah. She was born
in Leroy, Genesee Co. N. Y. Oct. 7th, 1816. Mar-
ried J. S. Holman, March 24th, 1833; joined the
Church in an early day and passed through all
the drivings and persecutions of those days; in
1836 received a patriarchal blessing under the
hands of Joseph Smith Sen., that has been a 
guide to her through her life, which has been a
very eventful one, and, but a few days before
her death she was heard to say that her life
seemed like a dream, when she thought of what
she had endured in her lifetime. She came to
Utah in 1848 with six small children, following
her husband who came the year previous;
	She was the mother of 12 children, her grand-
children numbering 52, and great grandchildren
16. She was a devoted wife and mother, a good
neighbor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and
has been for years an energetic member of the
Relief Society and was always willing to respond
to every call that was made of her. She passed
away peacefully surrounded by her relatives and
friends, and was laid away to await the resurec-
tion of the just.
