LYDIA GOMBER.

	In the 16th Ward of this city, Wednesday,
July 27th, 1881, about midnight, Miss Lydia
Gomber passed peacefully away to her rest, after
a lingering and painful illness of some months.
	Sister Lydia was born in what was then known
as Albany township, Berks County, Pennsylva-
nia, January 9, 1806. She was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints, in
the summer of 1857, in the city of Philadelphia,
by Elder Angus M. Cannon, who was then
President of the Conference in that locality. The
lady emigrated to Utah in 1859, bringing with
her a younger sister, and has resided in this 
city ever since. Her death leaves her sister en-
tirely alone. The two lived together for many
years. The separation was painful, but He who
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb will not for-
get the lonely and sorrowing ones, and will min-
ister consolation in the hours of deepest trial.
	The funeral was held at the residence of the
deceased, on Friday, July 29th, 1881, and the
most intimate friends and some acquaintances
of the lady were present. The Bishop's Coun-
selor, Theodore McKean, took charge of the ser-
vices, and good music was furnished by the 16th
Ward choir. The speakers were Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselor D. H. Wells, both of
whom had known Sister Gomber for many
years, and testified to her excellent character,her
sterling integrity and many virtues. She was a
woman of few words, but sound in her judg-
ment and had great energy and perseverance,
and an earnest desire to help in building up the
kingdom of God upon the earth. Her faith was
firm, and she died in the full hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	May the divine consolation of the Holy Spirit
rest down upon her aged sister, who is left to
mourn, and may she realize the truth of these
precious lines:
	"When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go,
	The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'er flow;
	For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,
	And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress."
								E. B. W.


