CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza although intimately associated in
the family relation with Pres. Brigham Young
and having resided under the same roof more
than a quarter of a century, and assisted in
various ways to promote his domestic happiness
did not as many would have done, sit down and
spend her time in 'mourning' his death. She
was too much interested in the work in which
he had passed his lifetime; and seemed to renew
her diligence, if that were possible, in promoting
the growth of all the organizations of women
which existed in the Church.
	During that fall Sister Eliza R. S. S. visited
many of the settlements in Salt Lake and other
counties attended meetings and encouraged the
sisters to increase their efforts to do good, and 
help roll on the Latter-day work.
	On the 12th of Dec. a meeting was held to
discuss the best method to obtain signatures to
a petition for a 16th amendment to Congress,
the women of Utah of which she was the leading
spirit, haveing been solicited to aid the National
Woman's Suffrage Association in petitioning.
Sister Eliza suggested a special meeting to be
held Dec. 22nd. At this special meeting an
organization was effected of the Relief Society
of this Stake. Sister Eliza moving in the mat-
ter as President elect of women's organizations,
and making the nominations according to a
precedent established by Brigham Young at a
meeting held in Ogden City July 19, a short
time previous to his decease. This was a new
movement, but in strict harmony with the order
of the organizations and by the permission of the
presiding authorities of the priesthood, and
nothing could be more systematic or better cal-

[Column 2]

culated to further the growth of these institu-
tions than this method of associating together
and reporting in a conference. After this part of
the programme had been carried out, then the
arrangement was made to canvass the Territory
for signatures to the 16th amendment petition
to Congress. In this labor Sister Eliza assisted
not only by advice but actual work in writing
out petitions, receiving, counting names and
preparing the rolls to be forwarded to Washing-
ton. It was at the Convention held early in
January 1878, just following, that the ladies of
the N. W. S. A., spoke so emphatically in de-
fense of Mormon women, and by this work of
petitioning, these same ladies were enabled to
comprehend what power for good was in the
hands of Mormon women.
	It was about this time that the Deseret Silk
Association was making some rapid strides and
Sister Eliza was one of the most earnest workers
in the silk enterprise.
	Speaking of definite public work of organiz-
ing done by Sister E. R. S. Smith, much might
be said and written; however we can only men-
tion in a general way a part of what she has
really been instrumental in doing. Early in the
year 1878 having previously given the store in-
to other hands she commenced with renewed
energy traveling and holding meetings among
the different Stakes of Zion, and assisted in
perfecting the Relief Society organizations after
the same order as in Salt Lake Stake. May 2d
at a Relief Society Conference in Ogden, Apos-
tle Erastus Snow being present also D, H.
Peery and other local authorities of that Stake
which had only been partially effected, was
completed by electing a full board of officers.
	From Ogden Sister Eliza proceeded north
through Box Elder Co., and Malad Valley,
visiting the various towns and settlements or-
ganizing etc., and returning by way of Weber
Co. held two or three meetings in that Stake; in
all holding over thirty meetings in fifteen days.
In July of the same year she traveled through
Utah and Wasatch and in August through
Sanpete, Cache, Morgan and Summit Stakes;
performing as much missionary labor as it was
possible for any one to do; for everywhere she
spoke earnestly and prayed fervently and
words of counsel and instruction such as seemed
suited to the temporal and spiritual condition
of the sisters young and old, flowed from her
lips. Sister Eliza traveled hundreds of miles
during that summer in all kinds of weather, not
in an easy carriage waited upon by servants, but
as opportunity afforded in all sorts of convey-
ances furnished by the people among whom
her lot was cast, and it is scarcely possible to
say how many times she spoke in public. It
was in some respects an eventful year for Sister
Eliza and for Zion, for during that summer
while attending a meeting at Farmington the
idea of an organization for children, such as
now exists was suggested to her mind by some
remards make by Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers.
This hint has since developed into something
tangible known as the Primary Associations,
due to the active, earnest, efficient and one
might almost say indefatigable labors of this
remarkable woman and her co-workers in these
enterprises for the good of Zion. These Asso-
ciations are in our opinion an important factor
in the kingdom of God upon the earth, for they
lie at the very foundation of the Hope of
Israel.
	The first organization was formed on the 11th,
of August 1878 in Farmington and the first
meeting held on the 25th inst. but as it was
not very successful the Association date their
organizations from Sept. 7, 1878. About the
same time some Associations were organized in
Salt Lake City the 11th Ward taking the
lead.
	To be continued.


