GRESS.

	The International Medical Congress com-
menced its sittings by a meeting in St. James's
Hall, on August 3d. With that contemptuous
gallantry towards women which is the distinc-
tive feature of the English branch of the Med-
ical Profession (though even in England there
are some honoarable exceptions), it was express-
ly ruled that ladies should only be invited by
the reception committee to attend the social
meetings, and rigidly excluded from the sec-
tions. We have no special objection to
the exclustion of the general public, pro-
vided such exclusion be impartially carried
out—though, even in this case, many of the
sections treat of questions which would be
deeply interesting to the non-professional hear-
er. Section XIII. in State Medicines had sub-
jects, every one of which is of general import-
ance, such as how to prevent the diffusion of
various diseases from country to country, and
Section VIII., which deals with mental dis-
eases, discussed problems which greatly con-
cern all philanthropists, such as new legal codes
as part of asylum treatment, cottage and vil-
lage treatment, the civil condition of the in-
sane, and the question of special asylums for
insane criminals. If, however, the Profession
claim their right to exclude the non-profession-
al public, they have no right to carry this ex-
clusion to the lawfully-graduated and diplo-
maed women doctors. This is the seventh In-
ternational Congress; the preceding six have
been held in foreign countries, and have ad-
mitted properly qualified women to be present
—acknowledging that they had equal know-
ledge of and similar interest in the subjects
discussed, as properly qualified men. They
had followed the same studies, passed the same
examinations, and the scuse of indecorum,
therefore, which would intrude if the unquali-
fied public were permitted to be listeners of the
debates, could not in this case be felt. Nothing,
as H.R.H. the Prince of Wales remarked in
his opening address, so promotes the increase
of scientific knowledge, as [---] in these
congresses: the practitioners of each nation by
attending the congress would have opportuni-
ties of acquiring knewledge that would be of
considerable value. Why, then, are women
doctors to be excluded from these benefits,
which it has been found by experience on the
continent, they can profitably enjoy.
	A protest was signed by all the ladies who
are registered medical practitioners, setting for-
ward their claim to form part of the congress,
but it met with no response. A story is cur-
rent in London that at the preliminary meeting
of the executive committee, the majority were
disposed to follow the precedent in this mat-
ter, but were dissuaded by Sir William Jenner,
who declared that he was empowered to re-
move the name of the Queen as patron of the
congress if ladies were admitted. The story


is not worthy of credence. It is likely enough
that Sir William Jenner made a most empha-
tic protest against the admission of ladies, as
he, happily without effect, strenuously opposed
the admission of female students to the exam-
inations of the London University; but it is
absolutely incredible that he had any authori-
ty to use Her Majesty's name to influence the
congress.
	The arbitrary manner in which this congress
has been summoned can do nothing to retard
the continually improving status of women
doctors. It is probably the last occasion on
which they will be excluded, and it will be re-
membered as a stupid protest against the ad-
vancing toleration and liberality of the age,
the expiring effort of bigotry and high-hand-
ed trades-unionism.—Englishwoman's Review


