THE PRIMARIES.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: Permit me through
your columns to say a few words that have been
suggested by visting the Primary Association.
I love to go there, I sometimes think that the
mothers do not appreciate the privileges their
children enjoy; if they did I think they could
spare an hour once in a while to encourage
them by their presence. I often think that I
would like to have our friends in the States
visit these little meetings, I think they would be
forced to take back what has been said in re-
gard to our children; the offspring of plural
marriage being the poor imbeciles, etc., which
they have been represented.
 At the last meeting I attended the President
called upon a little girl to preside, and I can
truly say that is surpassed any thing I had
ever seen in a child. She went through with
the programme with dignity; and then in a 
very pleasant manner said to the visiting sisters
"this fills our programme and we would like
you to talk to us," addressing herself to one who
was present. That programme was indeed
beautiful. Little ones lisping the Lord's prayer
and reading from the Old and New Testament
essays and dialogues on prayer and many other
good things that I cannot remember, and last
but not least the singing from their little Hymn
Books, it seemed like angels voices singing;
praises to our Father.
 John Quincy Adams, President of the United
States once said, when he was an old man he
loved to say the prayer that he learned at his
mother's knee,and do not think that these little
boys and girls will not remember their little meet
ings and the good things they have learned there,
and their President and her counselors that are
laboring hard to prepare them for the great
and glorious future that awaits them if faith-
ful.
 And Sister E. R. Snow Smith, they under-
stand that she was the first organizer and when
told that she will visit them their countenances
beam with joy and happiness, and everywhere
one goes it is the same; how beautiful is such
love and truly she is blessed among women; for,
she has not only the love and good will of every
Latter-day Saint but she has the prayers of the
little children ascending to our Father in her
behalf and Jesus has said "of such is the king-
dom of heaven." I rejoice in Woman's work
and that the restitution has commenced, and
that if we are faithful and seek unto our Father
for his divine aid and assistance, we shall gain
step by step, what we have lost and stand by
the side of our brother man, a wise counselor
and friend in helping to spread light and truth,
and in the redemption of the human race; and
we will take care of the babies too, but we will
pray to our Father for wisdom and ability to
assist in his work, but I must close, or I shall
say something on the Woman question, and it
is thought, by some, that that, had better be
laid on the shelf but it will not be fore our Father
has decreed it otherwise.		R. A. W.


MRS. Dominis, sister of King Kalakua of
the Sandwich Islands is acting as Regent while
the king is away.  Her brother has chosen her
as his successor to the throne.  Mrs. Margaret
Mitcheel and other "Mormon" ladies have had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Dominis while on
the Sandwich Islands and speak of her as a
most etimable lady, very kind in her manner
as well as very agreeable and attractive.
 A NEW book "Harvest Gleanings," by Miss
Anna Gardiner, is now in the hands of the
publishers, The introduction is by Rev. Phebe
A. Hanaford, and the book is dedicated to
Mrs. Charlotte A. Joy. These ladies are all
engaged in reform work.  We have no doubt
the book will prove a useful and instructive
one and a help to the advocates of Woman's
Suffrage and other kindred subjects.


