LOGAN AND OGDEN CONFERENCES.

	The Relief Society Stake Conference was held
in Logan, Cache County, Saturday and Sunday,
September 3 and 4, Mrs. Libbie B. Benson pre-
siding. President Wm. Preston and Counselor
Card were on the stand, ladies from Salt Lake,
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. Howard and
E. B. Wells, and there was a large attendance
of brethren and sisters; the large and commo

[Column 2]
dious building was well fillled, both in the main
hall and galleries. Prest. Preston made a few
exceedingly appropriate and suggestive remarks
on Saturday, On Sunday a Stake organization
was effected of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations of Cache County. Mrs.
Harriet A. Preston was nominated and sus-
tained as President, Miss Ida Ione Cook and
Mrs. Kenna B. Caine, Counselors, Allie Preston,
Secretary, and Kate Smith, Treasurer. Follow-
ing this, a Stake organization of the Primary
Associations was effected, by electing Mrs. Jane
E. Molen, of Hyde Park, President, Mrs. Ade-
line Barber, Smithfield, and Mrs. Mattie B.
Hanson, of Logan, Counselors, Lavinia Perry,
Secretary, and Ellen Lundberg, Treasurer. Af-
ter the close of the meeting these sisters were
blest and set apart to fill the office and calling
for which each one had been chosen, by Prest.
Preston and his Counselor, L. O. Card. The
Societies and Associations of Cache County are
now fully organized.
	At five o'clock p.m. a Primary Conference
was held in the Tabernacle. A large number of
children were assembled, two or three hundred;
Prest. Preston and other leading brethren were
present, and a large number of sisters. Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith conducted the meeting, and
gave much good instruction to the little folks.
Sisters Wells and Howard addressed them for a
short time. There was some delightful singing
by the children at the close, from a class under
the teaching of Bro. Stevens, about one hun-
dred and fifty joining in the choruses.
	On Monday the sisters drove over to Wells-
ville, held a special meeting at 4 o'clock p.m.,
and Sister E. R. S. Smith organized a Primary
Association with one hundred and two names
enrolled. Mrs. Maria Parkinson was elected
President, Sarah Jones and Emily Baugh, Coun-
selors, Kate Brown, Secretary, Charles Brad-
shaw, Assistant Secretary, and Jane Maughan,
Treasurer.
	On Thursday morning, Sept. 8, Weber Stake
Relief Society Conference convened in the Og-
den Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Prest. D. H. Peery and Coun. C. F. Mid-
dleton were in the stand, also Mrs. Richards,
Counselor Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society of
Gentile Valley, and Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith,
Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Sisters were assembled there from
all parts of Weber Stake. Minutes were read,
also written reports. Sister E. R. S. S. ad-
dressed the sisters a few minutes upon subjects
connected with the work in which they were
engaged.
	Prest. Peery spoke in a forcible and impressive
manner on the educating and training of chil-
dren, and gaining intelligence by reading the
news of the day and other kindred subjects,
the bountiful harvest, the signs of the times, &c.
Sisters E. B. W. and Jane S. Richards each
made a few remarks, and meeting adjourned
until afternoon.
	In the afternoon session Sister E. R. S. S. was
the first speaker. She made an eloquent address
on the suffrage, and appealed earnestly to the
ladies to exercise the privilege of the ballot;
many other subjects were also alluded to.
	Sister E. Howard spoke at considerable length
upon plural marriage, domestic life, the growth
of intelligence, and the suffrage in woman's
hands, its influence and power.
	Elder E. S. Richards spoke of the great change
that had taken place in the world since the
question of woman's position had been before
the public, the growth of opinions, the breadth
of intelligence; felt it was not only a blessing to
all, but was essential to the advancement and
progress of the human family that woman's

[Column 3]
political rights should be recognized. The con-
dition of woman now was very different to what
it had been, not only in Utah, where we have
the suffrage, but in several of the States where
they have school suffrage.
	Sister Sarah S. Richards said all the intelli-
gence we gain here we shall take with us, and it
will rise with us in the morning of the resur-
rection. Said, "let us set a good example before
all, speak kind words, give to the poor, and do
our duty in all places; go to the polls and vote,
as we would perform any other duty.
	Sister H. C. Brown made a few spirited re-
marks, and presented the names of the presid-
ing board of the Relief Society to the Confer-
ence, Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, President, Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Counselors.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith then presented the
names of the presiding board of Weber Stake,
who were unanimously sustained. Conference,
closed.
	Friday morning the Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. convened at the same place, Mrs. Sarah
A. Herrick presiding. Dr. Romania B. Pratt
and Mrs. Louie B. Felt, of Salt Lake City, were
present. Minutes were read and reports from
the several branch Associations. These reports
showed that good work had been done by the
young ladies. Home reading was also repre-
sented, which gave number of Bible chapters
5,393, Book of Mormon 1,454, Sections in Doc-
trine and Covenants 819, Miscellaneous 5,394.
One Society reported. testimonies borne 140,
chapters in history read in meeting 460, essays
written 12. The speakers who occupied the re-
mainder of the forenoon and the afternoon were
Sisters S A. Herrick, E. R. S. Smith, S. S.
Richards, L. Felt, R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells,
E. Howard and J. S. Richards, respectively,
who gave excellent instruction to the young la-
dies, urging them to diligence, warning them of
evil and temptation, and encouraging them to
persevere in the way of well-doing.

