HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret P.
Young attended the annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society of Brighton Ward on Thursday,
Sept. 8. Mrs. Mary A. Hazon presiding. 

	THE Secretaries of the Primary Associations,
of Salt Lake Co. are expected to forward a semi-
annual report to the Stake Secretary, Vilate C.
Young, in good time for the Conference.

	THE Stake Secretary of Y. L. M. I. A. wishes
all reports from the several secretaries forwarded
as soon as posssble, that they may be in good
time for the Conference Saturday, September 24,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.

	THE Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Saturday morning, Sept. 24,
and it is earnestly desired there should be as
large an attendance of the Associations as possi-
ble from all the wards and settlements.

	IN answer to the many inquiries, made con-
cerning the little book prepared by Sister E. R.
S. Smith for the use of the Primary Associa-
tions, entitled “Questions and Answers,” we
would say, it is in the hands of the publishers at
the “Juvenile Instructor” office, and due notice
will be given when it is ready for sale.

	SECRETARY Sarah M. Kimball desires the
Stake Secretaries to forward semi-annual reports
as early as possible, other wise a complete general
report cannot be prepared for the October Con-
ference, proximo. Morgan and Bear Lake are
the only Stakes from which reports have been
received up to this date, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 1881.

	THE Secretary of the Central Board Y. L. M.
I. A. specially desires Stake Secretaries of Y. L.
M. I. A. in all the various Stakes of Zion to
send full reports immediately to her, that she
may prepare complete statistics for the coming
October Conference. Those who have sent re-
ports from date of organization, need only fur-
nish from date of last report. Direct to Louie
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. Please be prompt, and give special
attention to all particulars.

	BY courtesy of the Salt Lake Herald Publish-
ing Company, we have received the Fair
Pamphlet, containing over 70 pages of cuts and
lists of prizes to be awarded at the coming fair
of the Deseret and Agricultural Manufacturing.


Society, commencing on the 3rd day of October,
1881. The book is got up in a neat and compre-
hensive style. Ladies' Work on page 55 includes
almost everything, and it is to be hoped that the
young ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity will
make a good showing of these classes of work;
and also in art and other departments in which
they have an opportunity to compete.


