SCENES IN NAUVOO.
				-----
	   BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				-----
	A great change had been wrought during
the time that the Twelve had been absent from
Nauvoo--My father writing from there in July
1841 described the appearance of the city at
that time--He says, "You know there were
not more than thirty buildings in the city when
we left about two years ago; but at this time
there are about 1200, and hundreds of others
in progress, which will be finished soon.  On
Friday last seventy Saint came to Nauvoo, led
by Lorenzo Barnes, from Chester County, Penn-
sylvania, in wagons, living by the way. On
the next day a company came in wagons, from
Canada, all in good spirits, and in two or three
days after, they all obtained places to live in.
They are coming in from all parts of the vast
continent daily and hourly, and the work is
spreading in all of this land and calls for preach-
ing in all parts.  You will recollect when
we built our houses in the woods there was not
a house within a half a mile of us, now the
place, wild as it was at that time, as converted
into a thickly populated village."
	The following account which was printed in
a St. Louis paper will show the thriving con-
dition of the city in 1842. "The population of
Nauvoo is between 8000 and 9000, and of course
the largest town in the State of Illinois. How
long the Latter-day Saints will hold together
and exhibit their present aspect it is not for us
to say.  At this moment they present the ap-
pearance of an enterprising, industrious, sober
and thrifty population such  a population  in-
deed, as in the respects just mentioned, have no
rivals east, and we rather guess not even west
of the Mississippi."  Before the close of 1842
the population numbered about 15,000 and
scarcely three years had elapsed since the Saints
came there so nearly destitute of every worldly
thing, and by their industry in spite of sickness
and the many obstacles which they had to con-
tend with, they had accomplished more than
any  other community had done in the same
amount of time, but notwithstanding all these
signs of industry, temperance and virtue the
same spirit of jelously and persecution which
had been manifested towards them in Ohio, and
Missouri was imbibed by a portion of the people
of Illinois, and many false reports were cir-
culated by them to injure the Saints, but often
they had the opposite effect and enlisted the
sympathies of many honorable people, and occa-
sionally persons who visited our city would be
so agreeably surprised that they would publish
accounts which contradicted the false reports.
The following one which was written by a
Methodist Minister who visited Nauvoo in the
Spring of 1843 gives such a fair description of
our city and people as they were, that I would
like to see it reprinted for the benefit of those
who listen to all the rumors that are started
about the "Mormons" and believe that they
have sunk so much lower in the mire of cor-
ruption, since coming out to Utah--He says--
"At length the city burst upon my sight and
how sadly was I disappointed; instead of seeing
a few miserable log cabins and mud houses
which I expected to find, I was surprised to see
one of the most romantic places that I had
visited in the west.  The buildings, though
many of them were small and of wood, yet bore
the marks of neatness, which I have not seen
equalled in this country.  The far spread plain
at the bottom of the hill was dotted over with
the habitations, of men with such majestic pro-
fusion, that I was almost willing to believe my-
self mistaken; and instead of being in Nauvoo, of
Illinois, among Mormon that I was in Italy at
the city of Leghorn (which the location of
Nauvoo resembles very much) and among ec-
centric Italians, I gazed for some time with
fond admiration upon the plains below.  Here
and there arose a tall majestic brick house,
speaking loudly of the genius, and untiring
labors of the inhabitants, who have snatched
the place from the clutches of obscurity, and
wrested it from the bonds of disease, and in two
or three short years rescued it from a dreary
waste to transform it into one of the first cities
of the west.  The hill upon which I stood was
covered over with the dwellings of men, and
amid them was seen to rise the hewn stone and
already accomplished work of the temple, which
is now raised 15 or 20 ft. above the level of the
ground.  The few trees that were permitted to
stand were now in full foliage, and were scat-
tered with a sort of fantastic irregularity over
the slope of the hill."  This grove that he
mentioned was where the Saints met upon the
Sabbath day to worship or to hold their public
meetings.  He continues--"I passed on into
the more active parts of the city, looking into
every street and lane to observe all that was
passing.  I found all the people engaged in
some useful and healthy employment.  The
place was alive with business, much more so
than any place I have visited since the hard
times commenced.  I sought in vain for any-
thing that bore the mark of immorality; but
was both astonished and highly pleased at my
ill success.  I could see no loungers about the
streets, nor any drunkards, about the taverns.
I did not meet with those distorted features of
ruffians, or with the ill-bred or impudent, I
heard not an oath in the place, I saw not a
gloomy countenance; all were peaceful, polite,
and industrious.  I conversed with many lead-
ing men, and found them social and well-in-
formed, hospitable and generous.  I saw noth-
ing but order and I regulation in the society.
Where then, I exclaimed, is all this startling
proof of the utter profligacy of Nauvoo?  Where
in the name of God, is the immorality charged
upon the citizens of it; and what dreadful out-
breaking crimes have given men the license
to depreciate this place as much as they do?
Where is the gang of marauders, horse theives
and ruffians, the drunkards and vicious men of
Nauvoo?  Where are the horrid forms of human
beings distorted with hellish rage and maddened
ire?  Where are the dark and diabolical sup-
erstitions?  Where are those specimens of cre-
dulity and ignorance?  Where are those damn-
ing doctrines of demons?  Where in fine is
this slough, this sink of iniquity of which I
have heard so much?  Surely not in Nauvoo!
They must have got the wrong place, or wil-
fully lied about it.  I could but blush with
disappointed shame for my friends who had so
misinformed me, and very soon made up my
mind, like the Queen of Sheba, not to believe
any reports of enemies but to always like her,
go and see for myself."  Here is the testimony
of another gentile who saw it at that time. In
a letter he says, "Look and see what they have
done at Nauvoo, during the comparative
short time they have been there.  If they are
enabled to proceed as they have commenced
their town ere long will become a mighty city.
I do not believe there is another people in ex-
istence who could have made such improvement
in the same length of time under the same cir-
cumstances."
	I wish there were more honorable men, who
when they come among us could see one side
as well as the other, and had sufficient moral
courage when they go away to publish the truth
about the "Mormons!" As far as ourselves are
concerned it matters very little what our en-
emies think or say of us for we expect nothing
better of them and we know that in the end
they will be the sufferers.  I think that we
have shown to the world that we could live and
thrive upon a desert land which they had never
dreamed of inhabiting as well as subdue and
dwell in peace with the savage without any of
their assistance; but we know there are many
honest souls who have not yet heard this Gospel
preached and if the servants of God who have
enjoyed such great blessings and manifestations
of His power should refuse to obey his man-
dates to go forth and warn the inhabitants of
the earth of the judgments which are right at
their doors, that they may repent &c., and
gather up to these mountains where He has
promised to protect his people, they would be
under condemnation and could not escape the
wrath of the Almighty.  The Latter-day Saints
when they receive this Gospel understandingly
are prepared for trials and to make sacrifices
which thousands of them have done in leaving
their homes and native lands, their friends and
kindred ties that had to be broken, and many
have sacrifized worldly riches and what was
dearer than all their good name.  Oh how little
the outside world know or can understand the
motive that prompts the Latter-day Saints to
gather from the different countries and nations
to this far off land, among a people whom all
manner of evil is spoken of, but they knew the
voice of the true shepherd who has said "Ye
shall be hated of all men for my name's sake:
but he that endureth to the end shall be saved;
He has also said to his servants "Behold I send
you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be
ye therefore wise as serpents and harmless as
doves.  But beware of men: for they will de-
liver you up to the counsels and they will scourge
you in their synagogues and ye shall be brought
before the governers and kings for my sake for
a testimony against them and the Gentiles.
Fear not them which kill the body, but rather
fear him who is able to destroy both soul and
body."  The world may prate about the ignor-
ant Mormons but the lowliest among us and
even our little children understand the Scrip-
tures and plan of salvation better than they with
all their worldly wisdom.
			To be continued.


