TOOELE STAKE

	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze and Miss Mattie Horne,
of this city, attended the Ladies' Conference
of Tooele Stake, Saturday and Sunday, on
the last day they were joined by Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, also of
this city.
	On Saturday morning, September the
10th, the Primary Conference was held
was held, many brethren being present. Min-
utes of the previous Conference were read, also
written reports from the adjacent settlements,
followed by exercises from the children, among
which was a list of very suitable and interest-
ing questions, which were promptly answered
by the little folks. The best of order prevailed
during the meeting.
	In the afternoon, the Relief Society
held their Conference in the Meeting
House in Tooele, presided over by Pres. Mrs.
M. A. Hunter. The brethren were in atten-
dance and encouraged the sisters greatly. Min-
utes of previous Conference and reports were
read, and the various branch Societies were
represented verbally. The officers of the Cen-
tral Stake organization of Relief Society were

[Column 3]

sustained by the Conference. The remainder
of the time was occupied in speaking on sub-
jects connected with Relief Society work,
storing grain, etc.
	The Stake Conference Y. L. M. I. A. con-
vened in the evening. An excellent spirit and
feeling prevailed, and quite young ladies, who
were called upon to speak, acquitted themselves
admirably. Minutes and reports were very
interesting, and showed that the Associations
were in good condition. Many young brethren
attended the meeting and seemed especially in-
terested.
	The next morning the sisters from Salt Lake
City attended the Sunday School, and after
listening to the usual exercises, addressed the
children. The Sunday School was very in-
teresting indeed, and the children seemed to
be making rapid improvement.
	In the afternoon, after the Sacrament was
administered, the Relief Society Conference
was continued. Sisters Grant, Kimball, Freeze
and Horne were invited to speak, and much
good instruction was given to mothers, and to
the young people. There was a large congre-
gation assembled, and a good spirit was plainly
manifest. The sisters returned home feeling
well pleased with the visit and the good which
had been accomplished.


