INTERESTING ITEMS.

	A few weeks ago, a gentleman in the city
bought and sent to a lady friend, "Wild Flow-
ers of Deseret." The lady and her relatives
are friends, through long years, of President
Garfield and his family. Her father is a min-
ister of the church to which President Gar-
field belongs. Here is the lady's reply, and it
has more than a personal interest. I send this,
copied from the original, which the gentleman
sent me.					Your Friend
DEAR FRIEND E.:
	I have gotten so in the way of talking with
you all in my quiet leisure, that I come now while
F. has her sister. You have indeed furnished
me a treat in this modest little book of poems.
This morning I had time to read "Friend." It
is beautiful. Unless you are familiar with the
book; you will not know what gives me plea-
sure. "Through the Storm" and "Ruthie's
Child" are full of sublimity. "Flowers" touch
the heart. "Women of Zion" has a history.
For what was that mass meeting called? Is it


true that the Mormons had no part in the Cen-
tennial? I hope you have one of these books,
and will read with me at the fourth verse:
		"But we the outcast heirs,"etc.
	I thought of those exiles fleeing from before
persecution at Nauvoo, and earlier from Kirt-
land, so near my home. As I crossed the
country on the iron tramway, in many places
I could see the emigrant trail. At Salt Lake,
looked toward the city, 37 miles away. Thought
much all the live long way. Said of course
no woman could escape from that place if she
wanted to ever so much; but now the iron horse
is ready, harnessed and bridled. She can go if
she wants to. The faith born of persecution,
privations and perils, such as the early
pioneer Mormon women endured is a thorough
faith. I do not wonder that Brig-
ham Young is a power to them, but
what is their belief? I am becoming
strangely interested in this people; begin to
think there is some good "in Nazareth yet." If
you see the author of this little book, or her
husband, tell them I have taken comfort in
reading it; that I think it the production of a
good, pure mind; that it would be a pleasure
for me to take her by the hand as we move on-
ward to the Celestial Land.
		MARY W.
	We trust our readers will be pleased to know
the little book of poems, "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," has found appreciative readers
abroad. It certainly has merit, and will yet
find its way into many hearts and homes.﻿


