WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


HOME.

	Home, is the place to become refined, the
place to cultivate the mind, the place where
peace should always reign, and love and virtue
have dominion. Oh, how that one word Home,
strikes upon the tender chords of affection and
seems to awaken a memory of all the scenes of
life through which we have passed. Home
the place of our birth, the place where life
began, the place where we spent childhood's
happy hours, and many of the joys of youth.
'Twas also there where our sorrows began,
where we saw our innocent, childlike day-
dreams of the future vanish away, and we
learned the first lesson of the realites of life;
'twas there our characters were formed, and to
home we owe our reputation [--] was there we
learned to lisp our first prayer and to place
our trust in him, who rules and governs all
things, 'twas there we began to exercise the
talents which the Lord had given us, and our
minds began to expand and we began to grasp
after knowledge and understanding, 'twas there


<f strewn="" alashas="" oar-joy="" ,is,="" jncr.easednur="" sjorri)="" yjvnmu="" i,-="" -="" retnexhbef="" fhfit="" their;="" -stem's="" are="" jxnyyyi="" .though="" --they="" mayh.enonceafedbeneatlx="" )qauti="" ful;="" leaves.="" c...........................xij="" ei="" ay.="" i<="" div="">in youth that we looked forward with bright
hopes, to womanhood and thought that when
we arrive at that point all would be pleasure
and happiness. But as we advanced on the
journey of life and drew nearer to that era in
woman's life we began to realize that roses grew
on briery shrubs and with the flowers we found
the thorns. As it is through all the journey of
life, joy and sorrow are intermingled together,
and where good as well as evil always presents
itself but now as we glance back over the beauti-
ful hilltops of memory to behold the home of our
childhood and pathway of youth nothing but
the beautiful flowers and evergreens appear.
Memory has cast over the pathway a carpet
of green and all nature is covered with beauti-
ful foliage as we look back 'tis grand to be-
hold. Yet we know the thorns were also there,
for as we passed along they often pierced our
tender flesh and sometimes even our hearts and
had it not have been for that good spirit, the
guardian angel who bade us take courage and
live for something more noble and sublime than
this world could produce, we might have shrunk
from duty and sunk down by the way side to
spend our lives in folly seeking the vain things
of this life which would have produced, a multi-
tude of thorns to pierce us in eternity, but
those little trials that so sorely vexed us have
all been for our good and will no doubt prove
a blessing to us throughout all our existence,
and again as we look forward to gaze upon
scenes yet future hope brightens every object
that presents itself to view.
	Our future home appears in the distance
brightened with fresh rays of sunshine very
elegantly adorned and all the luxuries of life
abound there, the path appears to be strewn
with flowers we quicken our pace and hasten
on to obtain that long wished for treasure but
alas! as our joy is increased our sorrow is mul-
tiplied. So remember young friends as you
proceed on the journey of life, and extend your
hand to grasp those roses the pleasures of life,
remember that their stems are briery, though
they may be concealed beneath beautiful leaves.
								L. E. W.


