[SELECTED.

	Her maiden name was Eliza Ballou. She is
a descendant of Maturin Ballou, a Huguenot
of France, who was driven from his country
upon the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
He joined the colony of Roger Williams, and
settled in America. He built a meeting place
at Cumberland, Rhode Island, which is still
carefully preserved as a relic of the past, and
is known as the Elder Ballou Meeting-house.
At the time it was built there was no saw-mills,
no nails, and few tools in the country. Its
galleries and pews, and even its floors, were
hewn out of the solid logs, and put together
with wooden pegs.
	Abraham Garfield and Eliza Ballou both
emigrated from the State of New York, and
were married in 1821. They had gone in 1830
to Orange, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, where a
year later their son James was born, being their
fourth child. Their log-house was built when
the heavy forest was but partly cleared away.
the fences were not yet made about the fields,
when the father, in fighting a forest fire that
threatened the destruction of their home, over-
heated himself, was suddenly chilled, and in a
few days died. His last words to his wife, as
he looked upon his children, were: "I have
planted four saplings in this forest, I must now
leave them to your care."
	A happier family never dwelt in a palace
than had been in that cabin home. Little
James was but eighteen months old when his
father died—too young to understand the irre-
parable loss, or feel the pangs of grief that well-
nigh crushed other hearts. The neighbors
came—only four or five in a radius of ten miles
—and wept with the widow and fatherless.
With their assistance the lifeless form was en-
closed in a rough coffin, and buried in a corner
of the wheatfield near by—no sermon, no
prayer, except the silent prayers that went up
from aching hearts. Winter was approaching.
Could human experience be more dreary than
a woman left a widow, alone with her children
in a wilderness swept by wintry storms? The
howl of the wolves and the cry of the panthers
never sounded so terrible as during those long
desolate winter nights. It seemed to the weary
ones that spring would never come again. But

[Column 2]
at last it did come, and swept away the snow
and ice. The dead things of the field and forest
returned to life; save only the dead in the cor-
ner of the wheatfield, and hope was not revived
in the cabin, There was no money in the
house, there was a debt on the farm; and the
food supply was limited.
	Then Eliza Garfield sought the advice of a
neighbor, who had been kind to her in time of
trouble. He advised her to sell the farm, pay
off the dept, and return to her friends, believing
it to be impossible for her to support herself
and children there. Her reply was character-
istic—"I can never throw myself and children
upon the charity of friends. So long as I have
health I believe my heavenly Father will bless
these two hands, and make them able to sup-
port my children. My dear husband made
this home at the sacrifice of his life, and every
log in this cabin is sacred to me now. It seems
to me a holy trust that I must preserve as faith-
fully as I would guard his grave."
	Her neighbor left her, and she went to the
Friend who never fails, and asked God to make
the way of duty clear to her. And when she
came from her place of prayer she felt that new
light and strength had been given to her.
	She called her eldest son, Thomas to her and,
though he was only a child ten years old, she
laid the whole case before him. With the
resolute courage of his race, he gladly promised
he wonld plow and sow, cut wood, and milk
the cows, if she would only keep the farm. So
this brave mother and son commenced their
work. She sold part of the farm, and paid
every dollar of debt. Thomas, procuring a
horse, plowed and sowed and planted. The
mother with her own hands split the rails and
completed the fencing.
	But the harvest was still far away, and corn
was running low. The mother carefully
measured her precious grain, counted the days
to the reaping time, and finding it would be ex-
hausted long before that time at their present
rate of consumption, she resolved to live on two
meals a day herself that her children might
not suffer. Then as the little store rapidly
disappeared, she ate but a single meal herself,
concealing her self-denial from her children,
until the blessed harvest brought relief." That
year it was very abundant, and the wolf of
hunger never came so near their door again.
	Still there were many years of hardship and
self-denial, in which the brave woman had to
be father and mother, teacher and preacher to
her children. She was the wise and tender
friend, guiding them in the right way, and in-
spiring them to choose the best things in life.
She still lives to see her great reward, and "her
children rise up, and call her blessed."


