WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Our editorial of August 15 called forth from
some of the active workers in woman's suffrage
considerable comment, and we have received
letters from a couple of very intelligent ladies
on the subject. One thing we would say in re-
ply is that although the ladies have had the
privilege of voting in Utah eleven years, yet it
cannot be expected that every one is so far con-


verted to the idea as to be always on hand and
diligent in the performance of this duty, any
more than other duties, which have been better
understood, and are no doubt by many more
highly appreciated. Therefore it becomes neces-
sary to talk a great deal on the subject, and also
to write and publish, "to stir up their pure
minds by way of remembrance" No doubt it
will always have to be done, the masses of the
people are inclined to forgetfulness in regard to
many things. People everywhere are apt to be
unmindful of those things that are not every 
day occurrences; and for that reason, we remark-
ed it would be well to have those telling words,
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,"
framed and hung up in every dwelling.
	Miss Anthony says: "In short it must become
fashionable for women to attend school meetings
as well as the polls—before any considerable
numbers in Utah, or anywhere else, will assert
their constitutional rights." She also says: "I
believe the secret cause of this lack of interest
and consequent effort on the part of women is
their utter hopelessness of making any changes,
however much they may desire them. Men
have so long had absolute control, and though
the right to vote is conceded, every activity of
woman to shape matters in the primary meet-
ings and nominating conventions is still deemed
an obstrusion on her part, and made the subject
of disagreeable comment, in a way that intimi-
dates her from interfering in caucuses, and fail-
ing to shape matters there, it is of little or no
use to rush to the ballot box to help one or the
other set of candidates into office, neither of
which are pledged to the great reforms she deems
most important to the well-being of society."
	In Utah, we beg leave to say to Miss
Anthony and others, that women who 
have taken the liberty (if it be a liberty
to make use of the privilege conceded) to attend
primary meetings, school meetings, or con-
ventions, have been most politely treated, invit-
ed to speak and express opinions. Some have
been placed on nominating committees, and in
many precincts women have been chosen as del-
egates to county conventions, and also have been
chosen as delegates to territorial conventions.
Every office open to woman, she has been al-
lowed to occupy, but the statutes of Utah still
exclude woman from offices of trust or emolu-
ment. It is well known to Miss Anthony, Miss
Gage and others of the leading ladies in the suf-
frage movement, that at two successive sessions
of the Legislature of Utah, a bill has been pre-
sented to remove the only obstacle now in the
way to women's equality before the law in the
government of this Territory. The failure has
been due to the refusal of the Governor to ex-
tend the courtesy of his signature, and thus it
stand to-day. Whether the present incumbent
will be more liberal in his views and allow the
male to be expunged as regards the matter of
holding office, remains to be proved.


