WASATCH STAKE.

	Meeting of Relief Society of Wasatch Stake
held in Heber City Hall August 5th 1881.
Present on the stand, President Emma Brown
and Counselor Mary Daybell, the presidents
of the various Societies and Associations of the
Stake Pres. H[--] Bishops Foreman and
Murdock and other brethren. Meeting called
to order by Pres. Brown, singing, prayer by
Sister Duke, singing, "Spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Minutes of Conference read and
approved. Report read by Sec'y. The Pres.
of the several Societies gave verbal reports all
seeming to feel well. Presidents of Primary
Associations gave very favorable reports. The
children are striving to improve; Sister Brown
made some appropriate remarks. Adjourned
till 2 o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session opened by usual exercises,
prayer by Sister Cluff. As the Sec. of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was not present one was chosen.
The Presidents of the Y. L. Associations gave
in their reports all seemed to feel well and im-
proving in good works. Sister Duke, from
Provo City, addressed the conference a short
time gave good instructions to mothers with re-
gard to training and instructing their children.
Spoke on Celestial Marriage, said it was a re-
vealed law from heaven, to the Prophet Joseph;
the speaker had heard the Prophet speak on
Celestial Marriage. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in keeping all the commandments of
God our Father leaving nothing undone that
might insure our salvation and exaltation in
the kingdom of Heaven. Sister Moulton gave
some very excellent instructions, Bishops
Foreman and Murdock gave good counsel said
mothers should be very watchful of their
daughters that they should not keep company
with outsiders and thereby be led astray.
Pres. Hatch was very much in earnest telling
the sisters to see after their daughters that
they are at home at night; and also to know
what company they are keeping. It is the duty
of mothers to look after their children. Sister
Brown expressed herself pleased, and endorsed
all that had been said. Conference adjourned
for 3 months.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
