[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

			IN MEMORIAM.
	Johannah Thompson Eggertsen departed this
life December 19th, 1910, in Provo, Utah, after
having lived in this world nearly 86 years. She
was born in Hals Aalborg, Denmark, January
2nd, 1825.
	When quite a girl she listened to two Mor-
mon missionaries explain their principles to
an uncle with whom she was visiting. These
elders, were forbidden the house, but left “The
Voice of Warning” on a side table, which Jo-
hannah eagerly read, and she became con-
vinced of the truth of the revealed gospel of
Jesus Christ. Years passed by, changes came
to her family and her mother died. She then
sought the Latter-day Saint elders and found
them in the city of Aalborg. After much oppo-
sition from relatives and friends, she and her
sister Inger were baptized. None of her nu-
merous relatives other than her sister have ever
embraced the gospel. On the 18th of April,
1857, these two sisters embarked for America,
leaving father, sister, brother and friends in
tears, while they rejoiced as the ship sailed
from the beautiful land of Denmark. Weeks
passed in crossing England and the Atlantic
ocean, landing in Philadelphia and then by train
to Iowa, where they started the laborious ex-
perience of traveling by handcart over 1,300
miles of desert, leaving much good clothing
and bedding by the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City September 13th of the same
year.
	By inspiration, Simon P. Eggertsen and Jo-
hannah Thompson first met in Salt Lake and
loved each other, so were married February
7th, 1858, a perfect ideal couple.
	During the exodus or move south, Sister
Eggertsen was sent to Provo, and her hus-
band was called to go out to Echo Canyon to
meet Johnston’s army. After some three
months, Elder Eggertsen met his wife in Provo
where they settled and made their home.
	Intelligently they sought to adapt them-
selves to the new conditions surrounding them,
cultivating faith in God that all difficulties
could be overcome. The hour of prayer was
a sacred communion which always cast a hal-
lowed influence around their home. By in-
dustry and frugality the comforts of life were
soon gathered around them; a home was
bought from a man for clothing Brother Eg-
gertsen brought from Denmark. There was
much for these people to learn of pioneer life.
Sister Lydia Knight, Uncle Jesse Knight’s moth-
er, used to teach Sister Eggertsen some of the
arts of grappling with the hard times ques-
tions, such as making beet molasses, soap
from wood ashes and grease, coloring woolen
and cotton goods from native barks, herbs and
minerals ana to prepare and cook foods for fron-
tier people. Sister Eggertsen appreciated this
knowledge very much and in turn taught oth-
ers.
	Elder Eggertsen planted flax seed, the flax
grew, was cut and prepared for the spinning
wheel by machinery which he made. Sister
Eggertsen would then spin and weave it into cloth
for men’s suits, beautiful table linen and tow-
els, which were sold to the towns people. She
also wove beautiful bedspreads with raised
designs which she made from the raw material,
and now, after forty-five years’ wear, they re-
tain strength and beauty in color and design.
For two beautiful bedspreads, two dress pat-
terns, table linen, toweling, linsey flannel and
jeans, Sister Eggertsen received the first prize
in the State Fair in Salt Lake City and at
Provo. Not only was Sister Eggertsen an ex-
pert at weaving and teaching others how to
handle the loom and spinning wheel, but she
was also an expert at making butter and cheese,
which was exported. She was an excellent
housekeeper, looking well after the comforts of
her household. The work of each season was
strictly attended to, and therefore this house-
hold was always prepared for the changes.
	As their children came, their joys were un-
bounded and everything seemed possible. Their
crude adobe house of six rooms was made com-
fortable, whitewashed, painted, a flower-bed in
front of the house, a yellow current bush fence
around the place was trimmed after the fruit
season, cobble rock walks were made from the
gates and barns, and cleanliness and order pre-
vailed around this home. Not only were they
up at four o’clock in the morning till late in
the evening, but they obeyed the call of the
Bishop in sending oxen and provisions out to

[Column 2]
meet the emigrants. Hundreds of emigrants
from Scandinavia stopped at their gate and
were welcomed into this home, fed, refreshed
and encouraged after the long journey, and
were given employment and taught how to
meet the conditions in this new country.
	It was an established rule with Sister Eg-
gertsen, when her husband and sons would
come home tired and weary from work, to
meet them with a smile, and her gentle mother-
hands would open the gate and have plenty
of good, wholesome food prepared and spread
upon the table and properly served. Brother
Eggertsen was a very particular man, so al-
ways noted the orderly side of life.
	When neighbors and friends celebrated, Sis-
ter Eggertsen would express her love and re-
spect by verse. When the invitations came
she would have beautiful thoughts for those
whom the party was in honor of, and while per-
forming her household duties, she would write
a line now and then, thus causing her soul to
grow in love for her neighbors and friends,
and give pleasure and comfort in company.
	Her deep blue eyes, always smiling, cast radi-
ance and love around all and drew the purest,
sweetest sentiments from those whom she met,
for she truly was clothed with charity al-
ways seeing the noble, beautiful attributes in
each character.
	Sister Eggertsen was a chartered member
of the Reilef Society in the Second Ward of
Provo. She was a faithful teacher and held
the position as treasurer for fifteen years,
which caused her to learn more fully the wants
and sorrows of the unfortunate, while her as-
sistance and love was always given.
	It is very inspiring to read the sentiments
written down by Sister Eggertsen when she
received her first patriarchal blessing in com-
pany with her husband before they had any
children. On June 3, 1858, feeling strange in
a strange land. The happiness and joy which
filled their souls over the promises given were
beyond price, for they went on toiling joy-
fully, reading these blessings over often and
were happy, proving as years rolled on these
blessings were verified.
	In the year 1862 Brother and Sister Eggert-
sen received a call to go and receive their
endowments in the House of the Lord, but
their baby was very sick, so they paused. But
Bishop Scott promised them that in going, their
child should recover. Their child became well
and by receiving the ordinance they were re-
newed in life. Brother and Sister Eggertsen
have performed much work in the Temple
and Endowment House for their departed fore-
fathers and friends, and received greater
blessings in the Manti Temple, which caused
them to comprehend the magnitude of the
work of God more fully as revealed to Joseph
Smith. Sister Eggertsen says in her diary: “I
was present at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple with my husband and all my children,
and hearing the dedicatory prayer from the
mouth of President Woodruff, causes me to
praise the Lord for it was the happiest day of
my life.
	Brother and Sister Eggertsen attended the
Jubilee held in honor of the Gospel first being
sent to Scandinavia, always enjoying meeting
and greeting their old friends.
	Sister Eggertsen and her husband did not
neglect the education of their children who
were sent to the best schools. No work or
play was allowed to keep them from Sunday
School or the different meetings organized for
the young.
	In the year 1876, a large beautiful house was
built, being one of the most pretentious houses
at the time in Provo. All members of the fam-
ly took great interest in helping to build this
home, so it became truly a family home. Sis-
ter Eggertsen from this home saw her husband
and sons leave to go on missions and return in
honor and safety.
	For forty-two years Brother and Ssister Eg-
gertsen journeyed on together through the va-
vious changes that come into the lives of the
Saints who obeyed the Gospel requirements.
September 27th, 1900, death entered this home,
and a faithful and devoted husband and father
was called to a higher sphere. Since that time
her eldest son, Simon P. Eggertsen, has re-
sided with his family in the family home, filling
the place and assuming the responsibility of
his father as head of the Eggertsen house. Al-
though Sister Eggertsen kept up  her own
apartments and entertained her children and


grandchildren and friends when they called to
see her; there was always a restfulness in en-
tering her comfortable rooms and receiving her
pleasant greetings of welcome.
	Last October Sister Eggertsen dreamed
that her time was very short on earth and felt
convinced that she would soon be with her
husband. She spoke of leaving this earth with
so much pleasure that it was a pang to her
children. Friday, December 2nd, her daughter
came in from Salt Lake City to see her. She
was seated, writing a Christmas letter to her
sister in Denmark. Putting this writing ma-
terial away, and giving her daughter a warm
welcome, she said, “Now if my sister could
only come in and see how good I have it, what
a pleasant visit it would be, for I know I am
soon going to father. Sunday, the 4th, she
arose, as usual, at 6 a. m., and ate her usual
breakfast. Simon, the eldest son, came in and
asked his sister if she wished to go to Sun-
day school, which pleased the mother, saving,
“I will sit by that west window and see you
go and watch till you come back again, as if
you were my little children again.” She
seemed so happy, smiling so sweetly while say-
ing this, and remained on watch. At the din-
ner table she seemed to have an unusual
hoarseness, but paid little attention to it. On
the 7th of the month she did not wish to arise
in the morning, but saying she was tired, so
remained in bed all day for the first time since
her last child was born. Her daughter, Sarah
E. Cluff, was at her bedside, ministering to
every need and desire as far as possible, never
leaving her bedside either night or day. Her
sons, Simon, Andrew and Lars, were daily
callers. She requested that on her death her
hair be dressed nicely, as father always desired
it. When her grandsons called to see her she
asked them to be her pall-bearers. Sunday,
the 18th, Elder Albert Jones called to see her.
She wished him to dedicate her to the Lord, af-
ter which she said she felt well. That after-
noon, sitting in an easy chair, she waved her
hand, saying, “God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform. I glorify God that
saw the light while I was a girl; be faithful,
my children.” She passed to the unknown
country on the hill a few hours afterward, per-
fectly conscious of it all, bidding her children
good-bye.
	The funeral services were held in the Utah
Stake Tabernacle, December 23rd, 1910, attend-
ed by many relatives and friends. The nu-
merous floral tributes were tastefully arranged
on the platform and casket. The building was
draped in white by the Relief Society, under
the direction of Sister Martha Keeler. The
whole appearance denoted a delicate expres-
sion of esteem and reverence. Bishop L. L.
Nelson presided.
	Sister Eggertsen is survived by three sons,
Simon P., Andrew and Lars E. Eggertsen, Sis-
ter Sarah E. Cluff, the only daughter, twenty-
four grandchildren and six great grandchildren.
	The pallbearers were Sister Eggertsen’s
grandsons, Echart A. Eggertsen, L. Eggertsen
Cluff, Claud Eggertson, Bernard S. Eggertson,
Burton S. Eggertson, and Luther E. Eggertsen.
				Sarah Eggertsen Cluff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


