ARRIVAL OF THE SHEPHERDS Henri Lerolle Kate Thomas "Behold, a virgin * * * shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel; which being ix-terpreted is, God with us."?St. Matthew, 1:23. O holy Babe within the manger lying, As yet unmindful of your mother's joy, Had it not been for shepherd voices crying, Your little world had dubbed you merely boy. (Who were those shepherds that heard angels sing? Prophets unknown for all our wondering.) 7 But there you were, soft-fleshed and wholly human, Cried for your dinner, likely, who shall say? And your dear mother, Child, was but a woman, Foolish and fond as any of today; (But wiser, in Divine love set apart, Keeping these things to ponder in her heart.) MEMES Sepia Ay, there you were, a little bunch of swaddling, GOD WITH US, eyes and ears and hands and feet? A tempting armful for some mortal coddling, GOD WITH US, weak and helpless, small and sweet! O wonder of all wonders! Could it. Be? No marvel angels sang in ecstasy! O holy Babe within the manger lying, Was it foredoomed the world must prove so base? And, all unworthy of Thy sanctifying, Make wicked clamor for Thy empty place? Could nothing show to blatant fools their loss And spare the anguish of the torturous cross? O vibrant bells of joyous Christmas chiming, Ring in our hearts the rebirth of a God! Deathless, enduring, fixed for all out-timing, Immune to jealousies and hate and fraud. Emmanuel, GOD WITH US, shall o'erride The cruel judgment of Christ crucified! Emmanuel, GOD WITH US, Shining One! Mary, no more thy tears fall for thy Son.  THE CHRISTMAS SPIRITWe should get the Christmas spirit into our hearts, not for one day alone, but for all time. The Christmas spirit is the Spirit of Jesus Christ as expressed in his mission to earth. It was stated by the angel and the heavenly hosts to the shepherds of Judea when the glory of the Lord shown around about them, on the first Christmas, and they were told: "Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord." It was further declared in a song of praise by a multitude of the heavenly hosts accompanying the angel, in these words: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." He came to the world to establish peace, and to save mankind, not in sin, but from' sin. That is the key-note to the season. How shall peace and good will come to this earth and to our lives? By obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ. To accomplish this end, the Christianity which he established, the true Christianity, carried with it no compulsion, but was to win its way to victory by lowly service, love, patience, and consecration. Jesus Christ himself set the example by constant service and, in the end, by dying for his faith. His followers ever after have been called upon to abide by his example in all its logical consequences. Hence, the true Christian must conduct himself as if his action was to be a law for all human beings. Christ came, not to compel the people of the nat'ons to adopt the new gospel, but it was to be done by persuasion, and love, by self-choice and free agency. It was to be established, rather, by the teaching of great principles to mankind, and obtaining the individual con-  sent of each worker to assist in furthering the great message which he came to earth to deliver, and which was destined to secure the salvation of humankind, physically, intellectually, morally and spiritually. His gospel has shown a marvelous power of modifying what it does not altogether 'supplant. It is true that his message was perverted, and for many ages practically lost sight of, and seemingly failed from the time his apostles were taken away until it was again restored by the Father and the Son in the dispensation of the fulness of times through Joseph Smith, the prophet. It has now been restored never more to be taken away. The Father and the Son appeared to Joseph and re-established the true Church and Kingdom which Christ, himself, was instrumental in founding upon the earth. Does this Church meet the requirements? Yes; where followed, its principles bring peace on earth, good will to men. It requires of its members, love, service and sacrifice, which have the power to bring forth blessings. It has in it the ability to modify the teachings and perverted doctrines of the present, as well as those which prevailed in the world when the restoration was made. The mission of the Latter-day Saints is to perform this great work which the Lord, himself, declared on 'ts restoration to be a "marvelous work and a wonder." When we contemplate the history of the Latter-day Saints, since that time, 'we have an unmistakable confirmation of the truth of these statements. We have a knowledge which stands as a living witness to the divinity of the restorat'on and the fact that this is the true Church of God. Our people have indeed received a vision of the revelations that Christ made when he was upon the earth, as to the glories that were and are to come upon the earth from his gospel message. The Saints have indeed passed through many of the trials and vicissitudes necessary to establish a work of the kind. The prophet who was chosen to found it, sacrificed his life, as did our elder brother, Jesus Christ, for the faith which he came upon the earth to establish, and which was given for the redemption of mankind from sin and evil. Joseph Smith, his disciple and prophet, was called upon to follow in his footsteps, and the Latter-day Saints have likewise been required and are required to come out of Babylon and its wickedness, and by love, faith, and good works, dedicate their lives to the establishment of true Christianity in the world. In this mission, mothers in Israel have much to do to implant faith in the hearts of their children. The homes of the Latterde Saints should be earnest disseminators of the testimony and mission of JesusChrist. Faith in God and in his Son should be instilled into the hearts of the children so that the plan of salvation may become a great reality to them, and they become true disciples of our Lord and Savior, following his example in all 6  its logical results. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the true Church of Christ. Let us who have received this knowledge and the vision and purpose of its establishment prove our faith in our daily lives, and on this day, admit into our souls the spirit of Christmas, and with the poet Whittier, sing: "Blow bugles of battle, the marches of peace; East, west, north, and south, let the long quarrel cease; Sing the song of great joy that the angels began, Sing of glory to God and of good will to man."