[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: CANNONS AS COLONIZERS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

CANNONS AS COLONIZERS.
		Ann Cannon Woodbury.

	I have been invited to say something in
regard to the record our family has made as
colonizers, but would like to refer first to
our early experience in the Gospel.
	My parents were believers in the Bible
and fairly well versed in its teachings but
not members of any sect. My father saw
the inconsistency of the various creeds he
had come in contact with, and had con-
founded many of those advocating or pro-
fessing a belief therein by comparisons and
arguments from the Bible. When Apostle
John Taylor landed in England as a mis-
sionary in the spring of 1840 he called to
see my father because he was a brother-in-
law, though they had never met. Not find-
ing my father at home, he left, promising to
call the next day. He had scarcely got
beyond hearing distance when my mother
remarked to George Q. “That is a man of
God.” She was more spiritually minded
than my father, and was thus early impres-
sed in favor of the missionary and his mes-
sage. On calling the next day Elder Taylor
explained the Gospel and found the family
interested and eager listeners. Most of us
were convinced of its truth from that day.
My father, however, put “Mormonism” to
the same test he had other creeds, with lit-
tle doubt at first that he could prove it
equally faulty. To his surprise, he soon
found that the missionary and his creed
stood the test. He spent several days read-
ing the Book of Mormon, at first with the
hope of disproving its claims, but at its con-
clusion remarked that "A bad man could
not have written it, and a good man would
not have dared to, if he had not been inspir-
ed of the Lord.”
	The family embraced the Gospel, and
soon began to feel a desire to migrate to
America. Mother was impressed from the
first that she would not live to cross the sea,
but did not waver in her determination to
go on that account. She felt that for the
children’s welfare and development they
should be with the body of the Church, and
with true martyr spirit she was willing to
sacrifice even her life to accomplish that
end. My father favored sailing to New
York, that being the shorter voyage, and for
the additional reason mother had a brother
and two sisters living there. Mother, how-
ever, opposed it, claiming that her relatives,
not believing as they did, would only be a
hindrance instead of a help to the children
when left without her to watch over them—
indeed, might prevent them from going any
farther and influence them against the Gos-
pel. So the longer voyage—to New Orleans
instead of to New York was decided upon.
	We sailed from Liverpool in September,
1842, and mother became sick the next day.
Her suffering was pathetic and her patience
and resignation remarkable. She never once
regretted having started,and though her love
for her children and anxiety for their future
led her occasionally to express the wish that
she could live to care for them, it is doubt-
ful if she ever for a moment believed that
she would. She lingered for six weeks and
was then buried in the sea. Oh the gloom
of that occasion! No words can fully de-
scribe the sorrow of the motherless children
and father! Our hopes in the Gospel alone
supported us. In time the voyage, which
in our anxiety had seemed so interminable,
came to an end. At last we halted tempo-
rarily at New Orleans. Then followed a


[Column 1]
tedious and very trying voyage by boat up
the river in the hope of reaching Nauvoo.
The river was low, the boat poor and heavi-
ly loaded. It stranded on a sand bar and
we were detained for two weeks in the woods
near Chester, and only succeeded in getting
as far as St. Louis before the river froze
over. We had to remain there all winter.
We reached Nauvoo in the spring of 1843.
Before we landed the Prophet came on
board the boat and shook hands with all the
passengers. We were also greeted with a
hearty welcome from Aunt Leonora Taylor.
	Father bought a home in Nauvoo and did
his best to care for his motherless children
while pursuing his trade to provide for them.
We learned to know by sad experience what
is home without a mother. The following
year, possibly impelled by anxiety for his
children, father married again, and going to
St. Louis a few months later to obtain more
profitable employement, died there very
suddenly. Thus the children were left com-
plete orphans at a time when the Church
was overwhelmed with trouble. The Prophet
and Patriarch had been cruelly martyred
and our Uncle John Taylor who was with
them at the time, and who, wounded almost
unto death, had been brought home from
Carthage by my father and others, was still
suffering from the effect of his wounds. The
persecutors of the Saints were still indulging
in threats, and a feeling of unrest prevailed
more or less among the Saints, portending
the troubles yet to come that resulted in
their general exodus from Illinois. This was
the condition of affairs in Nauvoo when we
were bereft of our father. Words can scarce-
ly express how utterly helpless and forlorn
our prospects as six orphan children—the
eldest not eighteen and the youngest not yet
four—then seemed to be. The Lord, how-
ever, did not desert us. He gave us hope
in the triumph of His cause and faith and
courage to remain true to it even at a time
when so many weakened and abandoned it.
George and I found a home with our aunt,
and Mary Alice, though scarcely more than
a child herself, soon married and provided
a home for the other three. We were scat-
tered then, but destined soon to be more so.
	Our experience as colonizers commenced
in a small way in Illinois, was soon to be
more extended. George and I were among
the early emigrants that followed the band
of pioneers, into Salt Lake Valley, in 1847
and after we had endured two years of hard-
ship and privation therein we were joined by
the rest of the family.
	We were all active in colonizing Salt Lake
Valley, and as time passed, under the direc-
tion of the Chnrch authorities (for it has
generally been in response to calls from them
that we have branched out) the members of
our family have figured conspicuously in
colonizing other places. Angus was among
the first settlers of Iron County, and he and
David and Leonora and I were among the
first colonizers of St. George. Leonora later
on helped to establish a settlement in Pine
Valley. Our Sister Elizabeth was among the
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley, where she
still resides. My daughter Anne M. was
among the colonizers of Juarez, in Mexico,
where she still lives. My son Angus has
figured (and still does) as one of the colo-
nizers of Big Horn, Wyoming. Mary Alice’s
daughter Leonora and her family occupy a
similar position in Teton Valley, Idaho.
Leonora’s sons George, David and Angus are
among the colonizers of White River, Neva-
da. David’s sons Lewis and Eugene are
helping to establish a colony at Fielding

[Column 2]
in Northern Utah, and several of the family
have figured more or less in Canada.
	This record alone of service as colonizers,
involving hardships and sacrifices untold,
would be a very great one indeed consider-
ing the very unpromising conditions that
surrounded the family in their youthful
days, as already related. This, however,
is not all, for no mention has been made of
the scores of thousands of miles mainly by
team, that have been traveled by different
members of the family, in locating others,
or encouraging others to establish colonies,
make comfortable homes and to organize
them for more effective work as members of
the Church.
	In conclusion I will say I have no regret
for the strenuous lives that have resulted
from our enlistment as a family in the Mas-
ter’s service, no regrets for the sacrifices
made, or hardships endured. While glad
that we have done so much, I wish it were
more. The cause is worthy of all that we
have done, and a thousand times more.
What the Lord has done for us as a family
can never be fully repaid, though we and our
children after us devote our whole lives to
his service. God grant that all mny ever
have the disposition to do so.
					St. George, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
