[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: FRIENDSHIPS OF WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

	FRIENDSHIPS OF WOMEN.

		"Friendship is not a plant of hasty growth;
		Though planted in esteem's deep fixed soil;
		The gradual culture of kind intercourse,
		Must bring it to perfection."
	The sentiment embodied in this beautiful
extract from "Joanna Baillie," is one which
carries a conviction of its truth to every
strict observer of the laws of nature.
	Friendship cannot exist without a solid
basis, and time and cultivation alone can
rear such a one. To be sure, a casual and
timely kindness, administered, perhaps, in
an hour of extreme necessity, may bind us
unconsciously, and with gratitude, to one
whom we have never before met, yet it is
certainly an undeveloped friendship, com-
posed  more of gratitude than any other ele-
ment.
	Sympathy is one of the grand elements
of friendship, and helps to alleviate, soften
and cheer the adversities of our every day
life.  Our Savior possessed, in a most re-
markable degree, this genuine sympathy
for the poor, the needy, and the unfortu-
nate.  One of our favorite poets has said,
"Sympathy is the robe of friendship."
	Friendship among women is one of the
most prolific sources of happiness; there
are so many subjects of mutual interest con-
nected with the home relation, and the
peculiar position wives and mothers occupy,
that to feel perfect confidence in exchang-
ing ideas and sentiments, and in the expres-
sion of the finest feelings of the human
soul, there is a refreshing relief in being
able to confide in one another.
	The tastes of women being similar is an-
other adaptibility; there are so many mat-
ters separate and distinct from the ordinary
pursuits and occupations of men, which
pertain to a woman's active life, that will
admit of such a variety of interchange of
views that, however intimate their rela-
tions with each other, these seldom ever
lose their interest, or become stale or weari-
some.
	Men would fain have us believe, women
have too much envy and jealousy in their
composition, to be true enough to each
other to enjoy the sublimest order of friend-
ship; that rivalry is so strongly interwoven
with every fibre of their heart and affec-
tions, as to render them incapable of devot-
ed attachments to each other; but even ad-
mitting there are such natures, there are
others of a more exalted character, who are
too wholly destitute of selfishness them-
selves, to stoop to such debasing thoughts
and suspicions; who live under the influ-
ence of a higher element, and partake more
largely of the true spirit of benevolence
and Christian charity.  Are not such per-
sons capable of being devoted and ardent
admirers of all that is lovable and excellent
in each other? And when intimate asso-
ciation, together with surrounding influ-
ences which tend to heighten and strength-
en their confidence in each other blend and
cement their affections, they are assuredly
a comfort and a stay to each other, which
will bring additional happiness to invigorate


their higher natures. How often we hear
the expression, I have proved her. "Thou
art the friend to whom the shadows of long
years extend."
	Can there be anything purer than a friend-
ship between two or more women of supe-
rior natures, which time, pleasant associa-
tion and friendly intercourse has developed
and ripened? You may call it love, and to
a certain extent, perhaps, it is; but it is love
entirely free from passion, and I very much
prefer the term friendship—to me it is a
pleasant word, calling up a thousand happy
memories in the past, and suggesting many
pleasing ones in the future.  Such instances
are not rare, and where the Spirit of God
dwells in the hearts of those who are sus-
taining intimate family relations, the truest,
purest and most exalted friendship may
exist, such as time itself will only strength-
en, and will reach into eternity, purified,
refined and etherealized.
	It is my firm and full belief that the love
based upon true genuine friendship is the
most endurable, whether in men or women.
But in that as in every other sentiment or
principle of our lives there must be a cer-
tain amount of faith in the person, and good-
ness to inspire confidence; and the best
proof people can give of their sincerity
is that they trust without doubt or suspicion
in the integrity of those with whom they
associate.  We are all of the "earth earthy"
and consequently we crave more or less
companionship, but I do not know as that is
a result of our earthiness, perhaps it is a
misapplication of the term, but there is a
desire for congenial and friendly relations
which is a part of our nature; we find by
experience that all persons are not exactly
suited to each other, but that there are na-
tures which have a bond of sympathy un-
derlying them with which our own true in-
uitions mingle in sweet unison, and unity
brings happiness when it subsists between
women of kindred feeling, as well as when
it appears in the opposite sexes.
	July 14th, 1875.			EMILIE.
					E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Permit me to say that I have been a
member of our Society since the date of its
organization, and have perused with plea-
sure your invaluable paper, delighted more
particularly with the communications or
letters from the sisters from the various set-
tlements descriptive of their prosperity,
and have not unfrequently looked with in-
creasing anxiety to see a correspondence
written by some member of our Society,
dated at Centreville, but up to date have
looked in vain. Why is it? I must crave
to be indulged while I say that there are
those among us, members of the Society,
whose age, experience and intelligence,
qualify them for usefulness in almost any
intellectual line of life, and who, if they
only thought so, could indite matter that
would not fail to interest and enlighten the
reading fraternity. Our annual meeting
convened on Wednesday the 23rd of the
present month, and from Teachers' reports
on that occasion a general good feeling pre-
vails among the sisterhood with a desire to
be found active in every laudable under-
taking.		Yours most Devotedly,
				CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.
June 27th, 1875.
DEAR SISTERS:
	Perhaps at the present time, when so
much is said and written concerning the
[Column 2]
rights of woman, it may not be amiss to
present a few of my thoughts on the sub-
ject. While we fully appreciate the privi-
lege of attending the ballot box, and would
gladly avail ourselves of all the rights and
privileges the laws of our country will allow,
we should ever feel that we, as mothers and
daughters in Israel, have a greater right
and a nobler mission to perform. The Lord
in the beginning said, "She shall be a help-
meet for man." It is not, then, our pro-
vince to usurp the place, or do the work of
our husbands, but to assist them, by every
means in our power, and if they are called
upon to perform any duty in the kingdom
of God, throw no hindrance in their way.
	Should we sometimes find them depressed
in spirits, because of the trials they have to
encounter, let us speak comforting words,
and assist them by our faith and prayers;
thus shall we with them attain to a more
honorable position in the kingdom of God.
	When we look around upon the present
degenerate state of society, and see the
fearful amount of disunion and crime that
prevails on every hand, and the discord and
strife that is too often characteristic of the
domestic circle, parents unmindful of the
important relation in which they stand to
their children, and children forgetful of the
duty and allegiance they owe to their
parents, we are led to inquire the reason,
and compelled to acknowledge that much of
this evil arises from the ignorance of
parents in not understanding properly their
position. But we have been better taught
to know the purpose for which we were cre-
ated, and the duties that devolve upon us.
It is our province and right to lead and
train the infant mind properly, while our
children are yet young and tender, and
capable of receiving a lasting impression of
good, before the Destroyer has gained time
to exert his poisonous and too often fatal in-
fluence. Let us with patient perseverance,
both by precept and example, strive to in-
still into their minds the great principle of
righteousness and self-control, teaching our
daughters to excel in virtue, modesty, and
every grace conducive to the improvement
and happiness of society, and their own
exaltation in the sphere of heavenly intelli-
gence; cultivating "a meek and quiet spirit
which in the sight of God is of great
price." "For favour is deceitful, and beauty
is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord
she shall be praised."
	With our sons the task may often appear
more arduous; we may find it wisdom to
exercise a greater forbearance, and even
then sometimes feel almost discouraged at
their waywardness; but let us not think our
labor is in vain, for says the Scripture, "Cast
thy bread upon the waters and after many
days it shall be found again." Let us en-
deavor to impress upon their minds, that
they may  be the happy instruments of
disseminating the great truths of the Ever-
lasting Gospel; and it will be their honor-
able privilege to assist in establishing right-
teousness on the earth; and thus earn for
themselves, during their earthly probation,
"a celestial crown of glory that fadeth not
away." Let us teach them that before they
can aspire to this, they must first learn to
govern themselves, and be ever willing to
listen to the counsel of those in authority
over them; and thus gain the greatest of all
victories, a conquest over self.
	Rest assured, dear sisters, that if we do
this, we shall be exercising some of the no-
blest rights of woman. In this shall we
fulfill our destiny, and be taking the position
our Allwise Father designed that we should,
and it shall be said of us, as was said of one
[Column 3]
in days of old, "Her children arise up and
call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."
	Then let us neither faint nor be weary
but go to Him who is is the Fountain of
Light and the Giver of all good, and He will
give us strength according to our need.
These I conceive to be some of the greatest
rights of woman.
	Kamas.			PHEBE YOUNG.


