[Vol7 | January 1920 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Being Nobody Clara S. Fagergren]

Being Nobody Clara S. Fagergren. Mrs. Perkins awoke with a headache. Each attack seemed to become more severe. Of late she had had a siege of headaches that had lasted over a week. She got up and dressed, however, thinking she would try and get relief for the pernicious pain in her head by working. Sometimes she succeeded. She made the fire in the kitchen stove;  then she bathed her temples in cold water from the kitchen sink. After combing her hair by the little mirror, which hung over a wooden box that held the comb and brush, she set the table and cooked breakfast as usual. She went to the bottom of the stairs and rang a little bell. She listened intently, with her head bent to one side, for a few minutes, but hearing no sound of stirring from upstairs, rang the bell once more, longer, louder, more persistently. She heard sounds from the upper rooms this time, and the children came clattering downstairs;  some half dressed, all in a hurry, cross, disputing, pushing. Mr. Perkins and the two oldest children, Leroy and Winifred, worked down town. They had to leave home on an early car, and as, usual they had to scramble and hurry to be off on time. It was nearly time for Winifred to leave before her busy mother found a few minutes in which put up the girl's lunch. Mrs. Perkins wondered dully while slicing bread and spreading butter whether there was any sandwich-making going on in the next world. Sandwich-making becomes tedious when a person has to do it something over three hundred times a year. Winifred gave her face a last coating of powder, before placing the powder puff into her handbag beside the lipstick and the eyebrow pencil. She jammed on her hat, pulled her hair a little farther over her ears, picked up her gloves, and snatched the package of sandwiches from the table. Stooping for the fraction of a second, she touched her lips hurriedly to her mother's cheek, and running lightly down the steps she paused for a moment and called back: "Don't forget to fix my party dress sometime today! It's the only thing I've got that's fit to wear tonight. You know the crowd is awful swell at Newcombe's." Mr. Perkins, an easy-going, plodding, steady-sort-of-a BEING NOBODY 27 man, stopped a moment in the doorway and repeated his customary farewell words: "Don't work too hard today, ma. Lie down awhile and take it easy. Mrs. Perkins scarcely looked up from her work. She had heard these same words said every morning, year in and year out, until they fell unheard on her ears. No matter how much work she had to do, coupled with the worry and care which come to a mother with a growing family, pa's admonition was everlastingly, monotonously the same: "Take it easy." Leroy, always the last for breakfast, sat down in front of his plate of hotcakes still tying his necktie. "I say, Mumsie," he ejaculated between large mouthfuls of food, "can you get my camping outfit together this afternoon? Some of us fellows are going fishing for a few days an' there's a long tear in the knee of my khaki pants. Will you sew it up? I'll want my fishing tackle, too. You know where it is?" Fishing! The word carried visions or running water, cool, moist, shady nooks, where one could He outstretched waiting for the fish to nibble the bait. Camping trip! That meant freedom to roam the hillsides;  relief from preparing an endless chain of meals;  the privilege of sleeping late in the morning. The tired woman by the hot stove spoke wearily, disinterestedly: "Where you going this summer?" "Dunno, yet. Haven't decided. Have to wait and see what the other guys say." Having finished eating, he grabbed his Japanned lunch box with one hand, his imitation Panama hat with the other, mumbling, "so long." Rushing headlong from the house, he was barely able to catch his car. Leroy was invariably late for work nearly every morning. Perhaps his staying up so late at night with the "fellows" had something to do with his tardiness in the morning. Would the children never be ready for school this morning? It seemed a century before she felt their sticky goodbye kisses on her face. When they waved back to her before turning the corner, she answered with her never varying warning. "Look out for the cars!" The children had left their nightgowns on the floor where they had stepped out of them. Their hair still clung to the comb;  their wash water was left in the wash-basin. Mrs. Perkins apathetically noticed the disorder, but she was too tired to care. Instead of immediately bringing order out of the chaos, she went into the kitchen and made herself a cup of strong 
 tea, She sat thing down she on rarely did steps the back;  lately it had her to drink seemed necessary'. tea and also to get away for a few moments from the stifling heat of the kitchen. The new married couple next door came out on their porch. The young husband kissed his young wife, not knowing that they were being watched! "Darling, promise me you won't work too hard today while I'm gone," he whispered audibly before leaving for work. The little bride promised;  then more kisses, more promises. "Fools!" Mrs. Perkins snorted contemptuously. "They all say that. After the children come, and the work increases a hundred fold for us women while the men's work remains the same, those husbands still keep up their silly drivel about us wives 'taking it easy!' " After awhile she got up stiffly, wondering vaguely if there was a place on this earth where a tired, aching body was not forced to do the same, continuous rounds of housework. She had heard — or read — or seen a picture of people living in cool looking huts underneath shady palm trees, taking life easy;  no washing, no cleaning, no cooking, no worrying;  feasting on bananas and cocoanuts, and spending their days fishing and swimming. She felt a streak of envy of those people. Life in those countries meant one long vacation;  one continuous banquet;  one care-free holiday. She washed the dishes and swept the kitchen;  picked up the scattered clothes and made the beds;  turned the hose on the front porch and cleaned the walks. Then, just as she was going to sit down for a minute to look at the paper, the children came tearing and screaming from school, ravenously hungry for their lunch, and in a frenzied hurry to get back for a game of baseball before the bell should ring. After they had left again;  there were more dishes, more litter, more work. If she could only get rid of that stubborn headache! It seemed to be getting worse every minute. One minute there was a feeling as if a thousand tinkling bells were ringing in her ears, and the next as if a million little imps were trying to break her head open with sledge hammers. She cleaned herself up for the afternoon, then she listlessly took out Winifred's party dress from the unbleached muslin bag where it had been carefully laid away. She scanned it and turned it over several times before ripping out the sleeves. Why did the style of women's clothes change so often? Surely, some one who hated women but who was gifted with an ingenious mind invented these crazy changes in styles as a torture with which to harass tired mothers. Who cared whether the sleeves hung full at the top or hung BEING NOBODY 29 full at the bottom? What was the sense of wearing a skirt like a balloon one year only to find that the next year's style in skirts were narrow and tight like sausage skins? Why fringe and drape the dresses in the spring like hangings on a funeral hearse, when early fall proclaimed lopsided and scalloped skirts the latest fad? Why wear choke collars during the hot weather only to catch pneumonia during the winter on account of wearing too low collars? Wh}', — but why try to solve the intricate evolutions of women's fashions? The vexing problem was too deep and too exacting for plain, hard-working, every-day Mrs. Perkins to untangle. She did what ninety-nine persons out of a hundred would have done, had they been confronted with this problem: gave it up! After finishing the dress, she laid it out on Winifred's bed. The poor child had so little time in which to get ready;  she liked to see her clothes where she could get into them quickly. Perhaps a little walk down to the corner grocery would do her good. She needed to get a few things for supper, anyway. The smell from the fruit and the vegetables seemed to be stronger and more putrid today than on other days. The odor from an open mackerel barrel turned her dizzy. The sight of a few hundred dead flies on a sticky sheet of fly paper was positively nauseating to Mrs. Perkins. How could people ever have any appetite for that mass of canned goods;  those sticky cakes;  those fly-specked cartons containing cereals? She made a few purchases and started homeward. Her neighbor across the street hailed her boisterously from the distance: "Wait, Mrs. Perkins, and I'll walk a ways with you!" Why did people insist in walking with her? Why couldn't they leave her alone when all she wanted was to have quiet, rest, stillness? The other woman — a buxom, rosy, jolly sort of type — hurried up, exclaiming noisily: "I'm all out of breath from running after you? Just look at them cherries I'm carting home to put up! Ain't it awful the way they eat, and living so high! Did you know butter's gone up again? Lan's sake, how petered out you look! I'm not feeling so well myself this hot weather." She rattled on and on, but her words fell like the boom of the distant sea, on the unheeding ears of Mrs. Perkins, who saying a curt "good-day," hurried on, leaving the buxom woman gaping after her. The family — that is the working members — arrived home on the threw his six o'clock car. sofa on the With and a his sigh of on collar relief, Mr. Perkins the sideboard. 
 "Got supper almost ready? Been a hot day today," he said, seating himself comfortably in the Morris chair by the open window and picking up the paper. (In the winter time he substituted "cold day" for "hot day".) Taking it as a whole, Mr. Perkins was not the kind of a man who wasted his short breath on formalities and grand speeches. No one expected him to. Mrs. Perkins dished up the food and waited upon her family in the same manner that she had waited upon them at the rate of one thousand ninety-five times a year for the last twenty years. She was unable herself to eat a bite, the very sight of food gagged her. No one either noticed or cared about her appetite, however, each one being intent on devouring the most food in the shortest time. The clatter of knives and forks on the plates and the tinkle of cups on the saucers were the only sounds heard in the dinky little dining room for the space of five minutes. Then Mr. Perkins, spoke, deliberately, ponderously: "Guess I'll shave after supper. Have to go to meeting." said these same words every Monday evening. The family offered no comment on his soliloquy. They knew it by heart. After the meal was over the family scattered and vanished He chaff in a windstorm, leaving Mrs. Perkins to do the dishes. She was always left alone to clear up after meals. Everyone in the house had outside interests that claimed his spare time;  only she was not wanted anywhere, she was nobody. The intolerable headache had not left her for one moment during the whole, long day. Would she ever be through? O, for a night's rest! What comfort in the thought of resting her tired frame on a soft, invitingly cool, linen sheet! Now there remained only the bread-mixing. She dragged the flour can from the pantry and poured the water from the teakettle into the dough pan, — then everything went blurry before her eyes and she seemed to float through a star-studded mist. The children found her outstretched on the kitchen floor when they came in from play. There was still flour on her hands and an ugly gash was in her forehead where she had struck a corner of the table. Their terrified screams quickly brought the young couple from next door. Carefully they lifted her in bed, bathed her face and hands with cold water, and called the doctor, who diagnosed her attack of illness as nervous prostration, brought on by overwork. It was broad daylight when Mrs. Perkins regained consciousness. She could see the flitting shadow of the Vir BEING NOBODY 31 ga creeper dancing upon the drawn blinds. Subdued voices were speaking in the next room. Presently Winifred's boudoir-capped head appeared in the doorway. She looked cautiously toward the bed and was surprised to find her mother's eyes resting questioningly and rationally upon her. With a low cry — a mixture of a moan and an exclamation — the girl impulsively threw herself on the floor beside the bed. "Tell me you’re going to live!" she sobbed, gently patting the bandaged head. "O, why didn't you say something about feeling ill? You must have suffered terribly. We're nothing but a lot of selfish pigs to let you work until you drop! I'll never forgive myself for going away and having a good time while you lay here nearly dead!" Mrs. Perkins tried hard to say some comforting words to the hysterical girl, but she was too tired to speak. She muttered something unintelligible and closed her eyes again. She wanted rest. Winifred crept closer and clasped the thin, calloused, work-worn hands in her own white, manicured, well-cared-for little fingers. "Mother," she sobbed, bursting into a fresh torrent of tears, "I'm going to stay home after this and help you with the work. Why didn't you say you needed help? What a lot of work there is to do about the house! And you've been doing it all alone without a whimper of complaint. Why didn't you speak up?" Mrs. Perkins barely had strength enough to give the dainty fingers a gentle, understanding little squeeze;  then she uttered one word: "Pa!" The girl eagerly sprang to her feet. "I'll call him. He's in the garden watering your plants. He wouldn't let one of us besides himself touch your flowers during the room. these three days you've been in bed." She hurried from Leroy stuck his frowzy head through the door and seeing his mother alone advanced inside the room, stealthily and shamefacedly. Mrs. Perkins opened her eyes and smiled up at him. There was a suspicious huskiness in his voice as he whispered: "I've given up my fishing trip. We've had a rotten time with you sick in bed. I'll get you anything you want, only say that you'll get well again." The mother's tired eyes filled with happy tears. Leroy was her first born, her darling, her pride. She felt rich and well repaid for her long years of toil. "I'll be well and strong soon," she spoke in a thin, weak 
 voice. Her eyes were eloquent with love and confidence in him, however. The boy stole out of the room, afraid to be caught by some one while "acting soft." Mr. Perkins tramped heavily into the room and sank awkwardly on his knees beside his wife. He stroked her limp hand clumsily;  he straightened the rumpled counterpane uncouthly. Big, round tears — like ripe, transparent peas — rolled unchecked down his tanned cheeks. He blubbered inarticulately; "We might have lost you, ma! What would home be without you? Are you feeling better? I can't go to work knowing that you are sick here at home." Mrs. Perkins was quite moved by this unusual outburst of affection by her stolid husband. She assured him bravely she would be up and about again in a few days, but he interrupted her feeble talk vehemently. "When you get strong enough we're going on a trip to Salt Lake," he said triumphantly. "I've been saving up money for a long time;  meant to surprise you. You need a vacation;  something like the one we had the first year we were married;  resting, boat riding, living at a hotel. You want to go?" He was rewarded by the bright look in her eyes and the happy smile on her face. Forgotten was her monotonous existence. She felt exalted and knew she was a person of importance. She was somebody. ATTENTION, FRIENDS. Through the kindness and courtesy of Senator Reed Smoot, the Relief Society will receive a consignment of Government pamphlets, to be used for supplementary study in the Social Service Department. These pamphlets are "What is and Malnutrition?" 4. and "Diet for the School Child," Nos. 1, 2 Senator Smoot will, within the next few weeks, send directly to each Stake President, a parcel of pamphlets, subject, "What is Malnutrition?" He will send a sufficient number so that each ward may have one copy. These particular pamphlets are to be used in connection with the February lesson on malnutrition. Will you please see that they are delivered at once to the wards in order that the ward class supervisors in Social Service will have them in time for the preparation of this lesson. We are hoping these pamphlets will be in the hands of the ward organizations not later than the middle of January.