An Anniversary Significant to "Everymember'' By Rae B. Barker FRROM the source of that same glorious effulgent light, of a brightness eclipsing anything the Prophet Joseph Smith had experienced, comes the light which illumines Relief Society's path of progress; and those who come within the radius of its influence reflect the light in varying degrees. Though the light possessed by each may be small, the cumulative contributions of "Everymember" make up the strength, the beauty, the fullness of Relief Society. This thought provided the theme for a program planned in the interest of membership. Such a program emphasizing membership could readily be adapted in commemorating Anniversary Day. The theme was introduced through the song "Shine On" in which we find these words: "My light is but a little one.... But lo! It glows like God's great sun for it was lighted there." The president further developed the theme in a convincing talk on the worth, or light, emanating from Relief Society. Capitalizing on the impressiveness of candle-lighting, she lit a taper; then, from her glowing candle other workers lighted theirs. Membership coordinators carried high lights symbolical of the idea expressed in the quotation "Let your light so shine.... "Also was read, "Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house." The numbers following evidenced _ membership. A wealth of local talent. Deserving of mention were papers on "Handicaps Solved" and "Treasures I Have Found". Equally fine, in another ward, was the singing of an original anthem. Short biographical sketches of several ward women, recounting outstanding services, given unobtrusively, revealed beautiful characters. The work done by many thousands of women who constitute the general membership is best known in their own localities. While every service given carries its own compensation, appreciation stimulates further achievement. An effective March 17 program might be one honoring "Everymember" and in nature a recital of accomplishments stimulated and fostered by Relief Society. The Magazine is a rich source for supplemental material. Stories, poems, informative articles, original songs come from the pen of "Everymember".