EDITORIAL . Motto ? Charity Never Faileth.  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. II. NOVEMBER. 1915. No. 
 The Jews have preserved to the human race the The Ancient truest, best ideals. The pagan and Home. oriental nations lost or muddled the clear fountain of home inspirations. The state, not the home, was the unit of the surrounding nations when Noah floated over a destroyed world, when the Lord thundered to Moses from Mount Sinai, and when the Master taught from the Mount of Olives. "Mormonism" has given to the modern world a The Modern virile conception of the home, its relation to the Home. individual, to society, and to the state. According to the gospel of Jesus Christ the home is the unit of all organized human life, here and hereafter. What the heavenly parents are to our earthly home, so are our divine Parents to that eternal home on high. The modern scholar Sayce, in his recent book, Babylonians and Assyrians, page 233, thus describes, from his own researches among the ancient tablets and mounds of the Valley of the Euphrates, EDITORIAL. 513 the "peculiar" ideas of the ancient Semites ? or children of Shem ? concerning the family relations here and hereafter: "Wholly different was the idea which underlay the spiritual conception of the Semites. He believed in a god in whose image man had been made. It was a god whose attributes were human, but intensified in power and action. The human family on earth had its counterpart in the divine family in heaven. By the side of the god stood the goddess, a colorless reflection of the god, like the woman by the side of the man. The divine pair were accompanied by a son, who was the heir to his father's power and his representative and interpreter. As man stood at the head of created things in this world, so, too, the god stood at the head of all creation. He had called all things into existence, and could destroy them if he chose." For an uninspired translation of ancient belief, what more perfect description of true earthly and heavenly ideals and beliefs could be given. Any people who hold such exalted possibilities as to the ultimate conditions of family relations and home life must of necessity possess correspondingly pure and elevated working principles of action. When we gather around our home altars at this Thanksgiving For Our peaceful thanksgiving season, let not the least of Homes. our grateful thanks extend on high for the restored knowledge of what a home is, may be, and will be in the future. Let us thank God for homes in Zion where truth exists as the bulwark and love as the light of our daily lives and conduct. Thank God ? thank our earthly parents, and each other, for all the blessedness which comes to our human homes. Unlock our lips, unseal our thoughts, and give love and gratitude, voice and speech. 'Tis the season of gratitude and thanksgiving, and we thank and worship thee, O our Father, for homes, for families, and above all for the knowledge of our relationship to ourselves, to thee and to thine, in that Heavenly Home. CHARITY. The mantle of Charity all should wear. Regardless of color or size; For it never grows old, as some things do, And is very becoming to me and you. 'Tis a gem we all should prize. Edith McClendon. Mesa, Arizona. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week (Dec. 7). Theology and Testimony. Second Week (Dec. 14). WORD OF WISDOM. Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains a very clear and specific revelation on the foods good for man, and those which are injurious. This revelation was further clarified by Patriarch Hyrum Smith who stated that tea and coffee were forbidden articles. All spirituous liquors ? which contain intoxicating principles were forbidden. All stimulants ? especially strong drink, tea and coffee ? are also forbidden. Meat should be eaten sparingly, and then in winter, and times of famine. All herbs, which we freely interpret as vegetables, with fruits in their season, grains, and all of the good things of the earth, air, and waters, are blessed, and dedicated to the use of man. The leaders who followed the Prophet, especially President Brigham Young and President Joseph F. Smith, have laid heavy stress on the keeping of this law. President Smith recently laid down the injunction that officers in this Society should be strict in the observance of this law. Let the Relief Society workers set an example worthy of imitation by every daughter of Zion. 1. Read Section 89, Doctrine & Covenants. 2. Why are stimulants and narcotics injurious? 3. What can you say as to the use of beer, wine, whiskey and tobacco? 4. What would you think of Relief Society officers who would serve or offer tea, coffee, beer, or wine, to friends or guests at home, or in bazaars or public gatherings? 5. Why is cleanliness a part of health? 6. What are the healing powers of love and charity? 7. Read Verses 123-125 of Section 88, Doctrine & Covenants. 8. Read Verse 3 in the seventh Lecture on Faith. 9. Who should keep the Word of Wisdom? Reference: See Sermon by Patriarch Hyrum Smith, in this issue.