Guide Lessons
======================================================================

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in April. THE SOCIAL ORDER OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE. In our January lesson we asked that the UnitedOrder be discussed. This was by way of introduction to the lesson of today, which brings us to a time when the Nephites were living in this holy order; for so fruitful had been the ministrations and teaching of Christ among them that they were able to make this most advanced social order known to the children of men the rule of their lives. Rarely have people attained such social advancement; but always a certain school of statesmen and economists, as well as poets and prophets, have been looking toward the day when such a system would be the governing social system of the world. The city of Enoch, translated, had attained this happy, heavenly state. The early Christians, of the old M^orld, arrived at ir, as did also the Nephites after the advent of the Lord of glory upon this continent. A few citations will serve to.show that time and time again the idea of sharing all things in common, has come to the fore, in the history of the race. Plato and Lycurgus, among the Greeks, had this idea. Sir Thomas More, among the British, advocated in his Uptopia that all rank and caste should be abolished, that all the inhabitants should work, even the prince and chief magistrate, and that all things should be shared in common. He proposed that people dine in public, and that six hours should be an allotted day's work. Everyone, women as well as men, should know something of agriculture. There were to be no lawyers in Utopia, for where everything is common there is no occasion for disputes of possession or legal interference. There are no alms houses, because there are no poor. At a later time our attention has been called to these ideas in such books as Henry George's Progress and Poverty, Edward Bellamy's Looking Backivard, and in the Brook's Farm Experiment which drew to its support such celebrities as Hawthorne and Emerson. 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Turning to the Book of Mormon we have the following most gratifying account, beginning with IV Nephi, 1:2, 3: "And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. "And. they had all things common among them, therefore they were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift." And even after a hundred years had passed away since the advent of Christ among them, all was love and good will. Again, to employ the language of the Book of Mormon itself: "And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. "And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God; "There were no robbers, no murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of ites; but they were in one the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God: "And how blessed were they, for the Lord did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered, until an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first generation from Christ has passed away, and there was no contention in all the land" (IV Nephi 1:15-18). Thus we learn what is possible and practical where people actually serve the Lord in spirit and in truth. In this latter dispensation the Lord has revealed His will in this matter, as it effects the Latter-day Saints. Surely the experience of the Nephites looms big with promises for us, when we shall have arrived at that state of righteousness that we may be partakers of God's glorious blessings. No questions are more pressing at the present time than these same social questions. Much of Europe is in a chaotic condition, and it is taxing the best minds and the best blood of the nations to find a way to bring order out of this chaos. Is not the world terrified, at this very hour, with the thought that at any moment labor troubles of the most serious character may break out and plunge us into immeasurable confusion and misery? Surely in that day, when the temple shall be reared in the center stake, and His Zion builded, we also, like the Nephites of old, shall be living God's higher social law. GUIDE LESSONS. 181 QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. What demand does the United Order make in relation to the distribution of property? 2. How would the United Order settle the discontent and controversy always raging between capital and labor? 3. How would it tend to abolish police officials? Almshouses, etc? 4. Why would it make the profession of law a superfluous profession? 5. What peoples have attained to this state of social perfection under the direction of the priesthood? 6. Tell for social ills?some provisions More's Utopia made as a remedy 7. What are the things that make the strongest appeal to you in the Book of Mormon account of the establishment of the United Order? 8. Do you think that any such social organization, apart from the priesthood, will succeed in the world? 9. Do the Latter-day Saints believe that they will some day live this law, and participate in all its benefits? Why? 10. Read, or better, sing the hymn, "Glorious Things are Sung of Zion." LESSON H. Work and Business. SECOND WEEK IN APRIL. LESSON HL Genealogy; Third Week in April. PEOPLE SURNAMED THEMELVES FROM PLACES. Teacher's Outlines. Many of the Anglo-Saxons were owners of small farms or home-places, so they were often surnamed from their places of residence. Surnames derived from: (a) A town. (b) A river. (c) A street or wood. (d) Near a church or field, gate, hill, meadow or stream, etc. 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON STATEMENT. As we have seen, the original civilized settlers of England were Anglo-Saxons. They had conquered the Celts and Britons in England at least and had settled down to several centuries of more or less peaceful ownership of their lands and small villages. They lived like all their races and tribes, carrying on the tribal customs which they had inherited from their forefathers. The Anglo-Saxons lived in settled communities, unlike the semi-barbarous tribes of the north who warred with each other constantly. The Angles or English built little villages, planted and sowed their crops, and conducted their public affairs through a council of elders of the village. This council met in the open space which was a gathering place for the villagers where they held sports or contests of skill; There were no classes amongst them except the captives taken in battle, and all were pretty much on the same plane of living. All this was changed when the Normans came in, seized their lands, made serfs and bondsmen of the Anglo-Saxons, putting them under financial tribute to the baron who built a castle on some commanding hillside and who spent his time inside his castle walls with his soldiers drinking and rioting and making occasional excursions over to some other baron's holdings, amusing himself and his followers by having a pitched battle. The Anglo-Saxons were the tillers of the soil or the agriculturists and the trades people; yet while the Norman were originally Anglo-Saxons themseves or Scandinavians, they had adopted the aristocratic customs of the French or Gauls in Normandy in their centuries of residence there; and now they lorded it over their Anglo-Saxon tribal connections in quite the aristocratic way. Therefore, when the surname custom became general, first the Normans took surnames and soon it became very fashionable to have surnames. Everybody likes to follow the fashion, and, indeed, itwas a convenient custom in all legal and civil matters. When the Anglo-Saxons began taking up surnames they frequently named themselves from the places where they lived, from their trades, as well as from nicknames and sire names. Place names are derived from: (a) a town; (b) a river; (c) a street or wood; and (d) near a church or field, gate, hill, meadow or stream, etc. The names of the rivers and towns of England are Anglo-Saxon names and these were incorporated in the names of the Anglo-Saxons themselves. GUIDE LESSONS. 183 QUESTIONS. How did the Anglo-Saxons live in their villages? Who were the Norman barons? Can you tell any surnames derived from towns? Give a list of surnames derived from a river, a wood, a street. What is the meaning of Eccles? What surnames have you in your ward derived from places? NOTE. We are pleased to acquaint our genealogical students with the fact that Elder George Milton Babcock, Capitol Heights, Maryland, (asuburb of Washington, D. C), has decided to offer his services to the Saints who wish research work done in the wonderful genealogical archives found in the Congressional Library at Washington, D. C. Elder Babcock has had a great deal of experience in this work, and he has lived here in Utah and knows our conditions. He is also associated with the Genealogical Society of Utah, and no doubt will keep in touch with the Librarian there, so that he will not duplicate information which can be obtained from our own library sources. We recommend him to our sisters everywhere. His card contains the following suggestion: "Write me, through the Genealogical Society of Utah, giving an outline of the genealogy you desire. I shall then ascertain the data available, writing you and stating the cost of compilation. Fee, for preliminary investigation, of $1 must accom'pany inquiry." LESSON 4. Home Courses. Fourth Week in April. THE INTELLIGENT OBSERVATION OF CHILDREN Practical, trained Child Study has now become a world-wide, organized movement, and this close, skilled, systematic observation of children has resulted in a broader insight and better understanding ofthe essentials of normal, healthy child-life; but the abundant literature published on the subject has so far inspired relatively few parents to give more sympathetic consideration to the details of their children's development, though it has stimulated many teachers to undertake individual study of their pupils. Many efforts have been made to classify children into groups, in order to assist in this analysis of their characteristics, and, if 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. not too sharply defined or closely pressed these are undoubtedly helpful. Such efforts date back to r*mote periods of history, and testify to the longexistent desire to understand some of the leading features which distinguish different phases of childhood. Two accepted classifications by recent authorities are here given as illustrations ofsuch efforts. Classification No. 1 of Child Nature. 1. Normal. a. Unemotional  (Impassive, of mediocre intelligence). b. Emotional. (1) Restrained. (a) Self controlled and progressive, the finest type of human being. (2) Unrestrained. (a)bility.) Gifted, but unstable. (Liable to mental insta- 2. Abnormal. a. Neurotic. b. StoHd. Classification No. 2. (a) Motor  (vivacious and very active) ; (b) Sensory  (sensitive, quiet, and often reserved) (c) Neurotic (a fine temperament if properly trained) (d) Precocious  (unbalanced, calling for special treatment) (e) Backward, or subnormal  (conditions which must not be confused, for they are due to quite different causes.) There are two methods of direct child study: (1) Individual, v/hich records the development of a particular child. (2) Collective;which utilizes an accumulation of data from the examination of a large number of children. Both have their place. Usually, for example, a complexity of reasons exists for a single manifestation, such as pallor, fatigue or irritability, all of which demand consideration if the true cause is to be treated. Hence the assistance of observations based on large numbers. Where experience is limited, the tendency is either to over emphasize or to under estimate one or other possible cause and probably to overlook the real source of the trouble. Does a child look dull or pale? The mother must.seek the answer through a reviev/ of that child's life for several previous days. Pallor may be caused by fatigue, over-excitement, great heat, nervous exhaustion as a result of want of sleep or overwork, fright, chronic malnutrition from defective or deficient diet, anaemia or debility from recent illness. Obviously, the weight to he attached to the pallor and the treatment depend upon its cause. Not slight, hourly variations in appearance, which are GUIDE LESSONS. 185 natural, must be taken into account, but the duration of the changes and their degree of intensity. How few mothers pause to consider whether volunteered advice as to treatment is applicable to the particular case. "They say" is too seldom reliable; and serious harm may be done by giving drugs of which parents do not know the actual dose, possible effect or suitability to the case. Nature's own methods  rest, warmth, quiet and plenty of water to drink, are now ever more and more employed as effective and safe remedies for most ills. Information derived from reliable child study is based on observations of the general pose, movements and face. Family likeness is chiefly revealed when the face is in repose; when alert and interested, the same face reflects the individual characteristics of its owner; the face also throws light on the nutrition of the individual; though it is well to remember that especially in childhood, the face may be round and plump, yet the body may be thin and ill-nourished. Authorities recommend the study of a face in three zones: (1) The upper third, which includes the hair and brow. Here attention should be given to the general appearance, form and condition of the head. Hair should be bright and vigorous in growth. If dry, dull and scanty, the usual cause is malnutrition. The forehead should be upright and even in contour: The skin, pink, smooth, and free from blemish or furrows. (2) The middle zone includes the eyes, nose, cheeks and ears. Eyes should be bright and their gaze steady. Wandering eyes may characterize highly nervous children, when training will control them; or mentally defective children, when this is not possible, all over-action of any part is as undesirable as lethargy. Red rims, sticky secretion, scanty eyelashes, indicate eye strain and call for immediate attention from an occulist. Most so called "bilious attacks" or sick headaches are due to unsuspected eye strain. Bagginess or dark circles under the eyes are evidences of fatigue, debility or dyspepsia, and call for correct treatment. Apple cheeks are no longer considered a sign of redundant health. Such bright color is caused by want of nerve control of the blood vessels in the skin, and is associated with some nervous instability. Such children need an open air life, plenty of sleep and suitable diet, with no excess of sugar or starch food. The development and form of nose and ears are in their turn indexes to normal or abnormal conditions, which should be understood by all parents. (3) The mouth and chin constitute the third zone. A firm, well closed mouth is a great asset; a slack, loose, open mouth suggests not only adenoid growths, but a slack, loose character. 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Teeth are specially to be noted; diseased teeth at any age seriously undermine the health and permit the access to the body of serious infections, such as tuberculosis. A student of posture notes if a child stands fair and square, or if the shoulders are round and one lower than the other, which means contracted lungs and constrained activity of the digestive organs. A slight swaying is normal when standing; if noticeable or over emphasized, the child is to some extent unbalanced, physiologically or mentally. Great care should be given to training in a good sitting posture, to ensure free movements of the lungs and digestive organs; all children require to have spines and feet properly supported, or bad habits of posture are sure to result. Many lessons can be learned from observation on hand posture, most of which can be made in the form of play, which renders the child unsuspicious and natural. Suggest raising both arms to shoulder level  are they at the same level, which is the lower, are the hands stretched straight, do the thumbs droop, or are they in the same plane as the fingers? Dropped thumbs, for example, mean fatigue and the child is unfit for any kind of strain that day. Hands and their posture are typical of a neurotic or energetic temperament, or of fright, debility, low mentality or illness. This brief outline will suffice to indicate how broad is the field and how valuable are the results of an Intelligent Study of Children, and at the same time, it should testify to the urgent need for more general attention to so important a subject. REFERENCES. Hygiene of the School Child  Terman, chapts. 7, 8, 11, 12, etc. Individual in the Making  Kirkpatrick, chapts V, VI, etc.  Houghton, Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. Child Life  Its Development and Care  Ravenhill  Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Page 33, etc. QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by Child Study? 2. By what methods can this study be carried on? 3. What types of children have you observed? 4. What lessons can we learn from a child's face? 5. How does posture influence health? 6. Give some observations you have made bearing on the subject of this lesson. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS KEISTER Our Ladies' Tailoring College Simplified System of Cutting, Fitting, DRESSMAKING AND TAILORING Will give you an occupation or fit you for home duties in that line. Information Free. Visitors Welcome 291 Center Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH AN ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER MAKES A VERY NICE GIFT EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY LET EARDLEY BROS. DO IT 31 East First South - - Salt Lake City, Utah STOMACH TROUBLES A SPECIALTY Free Consultation And Examination GREENHALGH REMEDY CO., Inc. Office Phone Was. 5394 Residence Phone Hyl. 950J 28 EAST FOURTH SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN'S 249 MAIN STREET "Good Service and Better Work Because of Better Equipment" For Distinctive Work PHONE HY. 57 MAIL ORDERS SOLICITED 902 Jefferson Street Salt Lake City THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "Say It With Flowers" Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty. CHILD FLORAL CO. With DRUEL DRUG CO. 2nd South and Main. Busy Corner. Phone W. 700 Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY The Big Spring Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Opens Monday, March 24th An excellent opportunity is offered to begin or continue your education. Make a Success in Life as One of the Following: YOUNG WOMEN YOUNG MEN Homemaker Practical Farmer Home Economics Expert Practical Stock Raiser Dietitian Agricultural Expert Teacher Soils Expert Dressmaker Crops Expert Institutional Manager Dairy Expert Cafeteria Manager Butter and Cheese Maker Social Worker Animal Husbandman Nurse Poultry Husbandman Dress Maker Agricultural Engineer Milliner Expert Machinist Musician Expert Accountant Bookkeeper Iron Worker Stenographer Foundry Man Typewriter Cabinet Worker Office Manager Contractor Banker Full information regarding the work of the Institution will be furnished upon application to the President, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1919 JERUSALEM FOR THE JEWS Sixty-one U.S. senators and two hundred thirty-nine representatives have authorized the Zionist organization of America to publish their endorsements of the movement to establish a national Jewish homeland in Palestine. L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE APPROVED TEMPLE GARMENTS are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Lot No. Price 11 Light weight cotton $1.50 20  Light weight cotton, bleached 1.60 60  Medium weight cotton 1.70 22 Medium weight cotton, bleached 1.85 90  Heavy weight cotton 2.35 24  Heavy weight cotton, bleached 2.50 50  Extra white double, bleached Mercs 3.00 10  Medium weight wool mixture 3.00 16Heavy weight wool 3.50 18  Extra heavy wool 5.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hyl. 516 BURIAL INSURANCE Daughter, Ask Your Mother If, during the thirty years we have been in business in Utah, she ever knew of a single instance wherein better bread than ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking was sold in this State. We use only the best flours and other pure materials. Our bakers are skilled breadmakers, and the bakery itself is a model of cleanliness and scientific construction. You will find that we are giving you the same high quality bread that we gave your mother. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS, or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Relief Society Department Home Office: Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah