[Vol3 | May 1916 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. RUTH. (Read, first, chapters 17-21 of Judges, and then Ruth.) It is thought that the Book of Ruth comes in between Judges and Samuel. The narrative itself assigns the setting vaguely as "in the days when the judges ruled." Josephus gives the time as the days of Eli the prophet. At the time of the story therefore, as well as before and after, there were corruption, violence, and apostasy, among the Israelites. On this dark background is painted the pure, trans- l^arent figure of Ruth, whose story is intimately known every- where among civilized peoples. Ruth was a Moabitish woman. The Moabites, whose home was south and east from the Dead Sea, were, according to the Bible, descendants of Lot, the nephew of Abraham. Although not Israelites, they were therefore kinsmen of the Israelites. Elimemlech's family had gone to Moab from Bethlehem to escape a famine, and there one of his two sons met and married Ruth, the other son marrying Orpah. And the two sons, Mahlon and Chilion, died, as also did the father. Then Naomi, the mother, "arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab." It is here that the story really begins. There can be no doubt that the central characteristic of Ruth's nature is devotion, as exhibited in her attachment to Na- omi. When the two young women had gone as far with their mother-in-law on the way to Bethlehem as the custom of those days would require, "Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, 'Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly " with you, as ye have dealt kindly with the dead and with me.' Orpah returned as requested, but Ruth refused to do so. "Intreat me not to leave thee." she said in a beautiful and memorable pass- age, "or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge thy people; : shall be my people, and thy God my God where thou diest, I will: (lie,and there will I be buried." And she accompanied her mother-in-law to Bethlehem, where they both lived, so far as we know, the rest of their lives. Nor does Ruth's attachment to Naomi diminish on reaching Bethlehem. Ruth there appears as the mainstay, literally as well as figuratively, of the older woman. For one thing, she gleans in the field of Boaz and brings the fruit of her toil home to her mother-in-law, and, for another, she opposes her uncom- plaining disposition to murmurings of Naomi. "Call me not Naomi," the older woman complains, "call me Mara for the; Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me." None of this sort of thing do we hear from Ruth. And then, too, Ruth follows the guidance of her mother-in-law as implicitly as if she had been a child leaning upon superior knowledge and experience, but withal in such a way that leads us to feel that she is distinctly aware of her own real leadership. aware of her own real leadership. Ruth's subsequent marriage to her husband's kinsman Boaz is another proof of her obedient and willing spirit. It may be quite possible, however, that Boaz was both attractive and manly as well as rich and wise. So that Ruth's stratagem was not an unpleasant duty for her to perform. No doubt devotion, faithfulness, was Ruth's natural disposi- tion. Orpah evidently looked to her own interest as it was mani- fest at the time to eyes that saw not in the distance. Nor must we minimize the effort required to leave the home country with its peculiar people, customs, traditions, and religion. But these Ruth also would have to abandon, and did abandon. So she must, by nature, have been inclined to the practice of this beau- tiful trait of character. Orpah, as Ruth, must have seen the loneliness of the mother-in-law, but it did not touch her as it did the sympathetic nature of the other. And so Ruth yielded to the call of the lonely, the helpless. One cannot but feel, as one looks at the situation in its larger bearings, that Ruth was also giving up herself to a greater call — the call of the Voice that is still and low, the Voice that is heard only by our deeper and better selves, the Voice that calls out of the far distance, the Voice of destiny and of God. A simple, modest, and delicately organized woman, such as Ruth is rep- resented to us in this fine story, she is eminently fitted to become tlieantecedent of the Shepherd King, from whose loins was to ccnic the gentle Christ. QUESTIONS. 1. Who was Ruth? 2. Trace the hand of the Lord in the story. 3. What traits of character does Ruth exhibit? 4. How would these traits of character work themselves out in modern life — that is, what things would lliey lead one to do?