The Golden Seed Leola Seely Anderson The sound of girlish laughter and the rise and fall of voices trying to remember that it was very, very late seemed to have ceased. Were the girls really asleep—at last? Slumber party! Where did such a gathering ever get its name? Better make a last check to be sure things had really settled down. They had—almost—except for Ann and that new blond girl whose family had moved into our block last spring. A pool of silver light from a sleepy moon etched their earnest young profiles in shadow. "Of course I really believe it!" Ann's voice left little doubt. "There is a God and he is alive, and he's on our side, and that makes us a majority in any crowd! You'll see when you go to 652 Seminary with me on Monday. Even if you don't quite understand, you can't miss the fact that all of us in the class believe ° it, and so does Brother Carter. He's wonderful! You know, you might find that 6:45 a. M. Hour the highlight of your whole day!" "Could I join the class?" Quietly I tiptoed away. A golden seed was being planted, and not for worlds would I have intruded. Just a year ago it hadn't been like this with my young neighbor. A busy young junior at high school, popular, loaded with activities, Ann had no extra time. An additional class at such an early hour was an unnecessary burden, her mother explained. The girl needed her sleep; her health must be considered; be- 4 to keep hey grades | know jt I ut listen to anUp for that holarshj she was Other "Semi ary family". Working fop he went to MI Fifteen-y ar-old ke 'Wilcox and Sunday School. I ays: "" orth it?, Seminary How w I know he Tguhas changed MY whole life! J Ments; Jy, et them both aS wasn't muc Interesteq InN the Parent as seminary InstrucChurch efore, but this class has tor, And I've UNCOvered Some t me Making folder 5 discussin facts. Religion With a; Sire t Prepare no for a Mission IS situation only requires that IS Sisters, Karen 4nd Sandra €y learn a type of aily Organito ate ding a total of Seven Zation time an energy Which years to ike's two Seminar Will be; Valuable + them fo th Say: "Ty as mad S aware of rest of their lives! Who we are and wh t we Would n € do want them to be like to S our day L00d Students Il, Surveys With that 800d f eling," have Shown hat the best gs Inary students—tho Most faith. Anp the Other of these three Ul in att dance and highest Ister Norma Wilcox, of San &Tades— algo Tate high academic. Bernardino, California Says: "A ally, In One high School] jin I see my children's lives grow Own district h fewer than beco Meaningfy] Mm the three Per cent La ter-day nt ays I have always Wanted th Students, four of the Valedictor. Be, J Ost Srateful foy lans in the ast eight years have teachers ho daily 81ve so much €en Seminary staduatesY of themselves to youth SO that More have hel Tesponsible Stumothers like me can be Proud dent Offices and €xcelled in both and happy." Scholarship and Sports. Since seems + become a he health OF the active eenMatter of ye] tive alues, what 4ger must e Considered R we want Most for our chil Course, Seminarie In My areg €- dren? 61N from 6 ay to 7 0'clock at th The most Priceless gift We can atest. A lert mother wh 81ve our children Is Etowth in makes Sure th er family is holesome Spirituality, that - will le fenagers to lean aPPy lives of aster an effan. " Servic le Marriage lve Orrelating Suide: " Cease nd to exaltation In the kingdom 0 sleep longer nN Is needf 1 of Our Fath - arise €arly, tha Our bodie Every Cenager has the botenand yoy Ind ay be Invigorlal to g for hj Self the Same ated" (D 88:124). Msight sho by the ad whose Yet, five days a week, ever eminary lass g udied the life School da —IS it real] orth jt? F Samson, the gs Tong man f Tom my ten years' Perience, the Old young people had read the whole story as the scriptures unfold it —of a young man, a choice soul, richly endowed, ordained to be a deliverer of his people, who chose, instead, the road of selfishness, degeneration, suicide. The discussion in class was spirited. As the teacher pointed out that even Samson's last act, often heralded as a noble sacrifice, was only one of final vengeance, the broad-shouldered young athlete near the open window demanded, in Samson's defense: "Well, what would you do if they put your eyes out and worked you like an animal." And beside him, the quiet lad, looking out toward the stark, rocky hills, where the new day was beginning, answered softly, "What would you do if they nailed you to a cross?" Here, truly, a golden seed is springing up into a tree of life.