[The Thickness of Water by Nellie Iverson Cox]

The Thickness of Water Nellie Iverson Cox RETCHEN hastily jerked her scorched finger away from its contact with the hot stove lid. "Ouch!" she ejaculated, suIveying her finger ruefully. "And some people think I should settle down permanently to this business of living on a farm!'' Gingerly, she began ladling the smooth batter onto the smoking griddle, but turned at the sound of pattering footsteps. Six-year-old Ronnie, barefoot, and pajama-clad, came through the door leading to the bedrooms. "Oh, Mommy, I don't want to wear these short trousers; I want overalls like Kenny wears!" His boyish face, with its recently acquired tan, wrinkled up at her imploringly as he held the knee-length _ suit to her view.
When she did not answer, he came nearer and caught hold of her dress insistently. "Mama, you're not going back to the city; I hate it. I hate Olga and Mrs.
Watts at the Day Nursery n everything. I want to live here with Kenny 'n Nora 'n Thayne." Gretchen's mind sought desperately for words that would satisfy him without actually committing herself. "Now, son, their aunt and uncle are coming to take care of them. The telegram came _ last night." "But Mommy, they want us to stay ° n their mama wants us to stay 'cause Nora said so.' "Well—we'll see. Run and dress now.
Breakfast is almost ready." She was always weak where a S desires were concerned, but this time she just couldn't give in. Even Jeff had admitted that it was too much to expect that she should give up her good job for an uncertain future on the farm he wished to buy.
Through the gingham-curtained window she could see 'Thayne coming with the milk.
Even his chore clothes did not hide his blond handsomeness. How proud his mother had been of him and what high hopes she had entertained for the development of his really fine Voice. "You certainly hurried," she told him, preparing to strain the milk. "Yes ma'am." His voice was musical as he regarded her soberly from under his amazingly long lashes. "There is only Julie to milk now. I'm letting Bess go dry. She is going to have a calf you know." Yes, she knew.
Ronnie had excitedly informed her of the fact. It was going to be harder than she had thought to convince him they must leave. A sweet-faced girl with brown braids came through the door. "Why did you let me sleep so late?" she asked reproachfully, beginning to set the table. "And why not?" asked Gretchen smiling fondly. "You needed to rest after climbing hills all day yesterday.
Ronnie seems to be determined to see the other side of every hill around here." "T like to take him hiking. He has so much fun 'cause he says  228 there aren't any hills in the city and he couldn't climb them alone if there were." She slipped her hand into Gretchen's. "I'm so_ glad Mom had a friend like you," she ended chokingly.
Gretchen drew the girlish figure close. "Your mother was lucky to have three such fine children," she said softly. A tousle-headed youngster came in, rubbing the sleep from his eyes. "Good morning, Kenny," smiled Gretchen. "I guess Ronnie is the slow-poke this morning but we won't wait.
Hurry and wash." 'Say,' began the eight-year-old, _ splashing vigorously, "that's just the way Mom used to talk. 'Kenny, hurry 'n wash', she'd say first thing." His lip quivered and he hurriedly applied the towel to his freckled features. 'There was an unhappy silence which lasted until Kenny, with the quick versatility of childhood, said excitedly, "Say, Ronnie and I want to build a rock dam across the creek and make a duck pond. We can finish it in a week easy, and then when - school starts."" ORA interrupted him. "Mama never told us where she met you, Mrs. Bradley." "Why, it was last spring. She came to my apartment building in search of your aunt." "Aunt Winona," —_ interposed Thayne. "But your aunt had moved away, so I asked her to spend the night with me. It was late and she was a stranger in the city. She told us about you children—that Thayne loved to sing and Nora's hobby  was photography, and Kenny, she said, was her little farmer, always making dams and ditches." In her mind's eye Gretchen could still see the faded little woman who had seemed so out of place in the richly carpeted halls of the New Breton.
Gretchen had just stepped out of the elevator and was looking through the letters she had collected in the lobby.
There had been a bill, an advertisement, and an invitation to vacation again at Sheerdrop Ski Resort, but nothing from Jeff.
Even if he did feel resentful because she insisted on keeping her job, he could write oftener, if only for Ronnie's sake. Was he still working on a ranch? She wondered.
Intent on her mail, she did not at first notice the woman in front of one of the apartment entrances.
When she did, her first thought had been, that's what I might have looked like if we had bought the farm Jeff was always dreaming about. Involuntarily, she had glanced down at her own fashionable business suit above the trim brown Oxfords. The woman was undoubtedly from the country. She was no shabbier than many women seen in the city, but there was a rugged strength in her thin frame, and Gretchen knew, with the quick preception that had won her the excellent position she held, that those brown, roughened hands were accustomed to hard toil. The stranger had turned, and Gretchen had _ been surprised at the look of eager expectancy on the still young face. It was as though she had been waiting for someone THE THICKNESS OF WATER and must scrutinize every comer. On sudden impulse, Gretchen asked, "Are you looking for someone?" "My sister wrote me from this address, but there seems to be no Ome, "T believe the people who were in that apartment have been gone for several days.
Perhaps the management." "No. It doesn't matter now. Maybe I can find a hotel."
Surprising herself, Gretchen exclaimed, "Won't you spend the night with me? My son would be so pleased. He doesn't see many people." "T couldn't impose on you that way.
What would your _ husband...?" "Jeff doesn't live here any more." And then, fearing she had sounded facetious, "He has been overseas and the city gets on his nerves." "I see. Then I shall be happy to stay." The haggard look had lifted from her features, leaving them suddenly alive. "Then I shall be very happy to stay. I'm Mrs.
Hackett from Dixon, upstate." "And I'm Mrs. Bradley. Come, then, and meet my son." She led the way to the spacious apartment where a curly-headed child joyously threw himself into her arms. "Hello. Darling. Hello, Olga.
This is Mrs. Hackett. She is going to spend the night with us." The visitor smiled at the maid and then took Ronnie's hands in her own. '"T have a little boy named Kenny. I have a. Big boy, too, and a girl." "Oh, where do you live?" "On a big farm in a place called Dixon." 229 "Oh. My daddy is working on a ranch." (GRETCHEN interposed, "Mrs.
Hackett is tired, son.
Perhaps after supper she will tell you about her children."
After the simple meal the guest brought some snapshots from her purse. | "Nora is always taking pictures.
Would you like to look at these, Ronnie?" His eyes sparkled. "Oh, Mommy, look at this big boy in swimming! And here is one of a big load of something...." "That is a load of hay that horses and cows eat," said their visitor. "You poor little city tike, get your mama to bring you to the farm when she takes her vacation." The idea, thought Gretchen almost indignantly, that anyone whose children ran barefoot in thorns or whatever country children ran barefoot in, should feel sorry for her son who had the best of everything. Why, the woman sounded almost like Jeff. He had said a child might as well be in jail as locked up in an apartment all day. "You were saying?" she apologized, conscious that she had not been paying attention in her indignant remembrance of Jeff's attitude. "Won't you bring him to the farm? I just couldn't bear to have my children raised anywhere else. It's been hard work for a woman alone, but nothing else could ever be so satisfiying." "You mean you run it alone?" "Since Cal died five years ago. It 230 has left its mark on me, I guess. I finished paying off the mortgage last year, so it will be easier now. The house can be fixed up real nice and I know you'd like it."
What is the woman trying to do, thought Gretchen, amazed. It sounds like she is trying to sell me her farm. "Say you will visit us," insisted the woman, but Gretchen had smiled at the improbability of such a thing. However, she had not reckoned with the letters that came from Mrs.
Hackett after she had returned home.
They were filled with numerous little details about calves and colts, puppies and kittens, and seemed written with the intent in mind of whetting to greater pitch Ronnie's eagerness to visit the Hackett farm. Even Gretchen found herself wondering if the frost had got the peaches, or if Mr. Burgess, the neighbor who helped run the farm, had recovered from his injury in time to get the hay in. Was Julie's calf the heifer they hoped for, and how many pups did Flora have?
Ronnie never allowed her to skip any detail when reading one of the frequent letters, and he often insisted on her writing for information he wanted. It was not long until she knew the size and shape of the house, the color of the wallpaper in every room, and the general layout of orchard and field. She was amused at herself for being interested, but it was for Ronnie's sake, she told herself.
Lacking companions of his own age, the letters from the farm supplied a definite laék in his Hi, - Then, suddenly and unexpectedly, a telegram had come signed by Mr. 
Burgess, saying that Mrs.
Hackett was very ill and had asked for her.
Obtaining a leave of absence, she had entrained for the farming community as soon as possible, taking Ronnie with her.
Upon arrival, they had been approached by a grizzled farmer in wrinkled overalls. | "You that city woman Leonora Hackett sent for?" "Tm Mrs. Bradley." "Well, my wife is over there now.
Been there since Leonora died last night.": O, sitting beside a taciturn farmer in a dilapidated farm truck, Gretchen and Ronnie had ridden to the Hackett farm, which looked - just as they had known it would, save there was no thin figure in a house dress to welcome them.
Gretchen was immediately placed in charge by the neighbor woman who had attended to all needful details.
Later that evening, they had attended the simple funeral and had gone to the little cemetery, and Gretchen had tried conscientiously to soften the grief of three orphan children. "Leonora set great store by you," said white-haired Mrs. Burgess. "She wanted you to stay with her children."
Stay with the Hackett children— handsome Thayne, winsome Nora, and little Kenny who had welcomed her own Ronnie like a brother? Of course she would stay until the aunt could be located. But to give up permanently her luxurious apartment and the fabulous salary she received to care for the children of a stranger—surely Leonora Hackett THE THICKNESS OF WATER had never thought she would do such a thing!
What she had said to Mrs.
Burgess had been only the meandering of a sick mind. Still, there had seemed to be a hidden purpose behind all those letters she had written. I can't do it; it's fantastic! She told herself. Why no one more unfitted to run a farm ever lived than I. When Winona Cappelli arrived, she, Gretchen Bradley would slide gracefully out from under this unwanted responsibility and let the aunt take over. And that was that. She came back to the present when Nora said hesitantly over her scarcely touched _ breakfast, "You are going to stay with us, aren't you?" "Now, sis," began the boy, '"Mrs.
Bradley has her job and her home and maybe she has to go back."
Gretchen flashed the boy a grateful look. He was trying to make it easier on all of them with his adult understanding of the position she was in. "Your aunt and uncle are coming on tonight's train. If we hurry, Nora, we can finish the dress your mother was making for you so you can wear it when we go to meet them. It was made so nicely." The air was quite cool with a dash of rain when they started in the early dusk toward the little railway station. Too late, Gretchen realized that their path was taking them past the cemetery where a new mound showed up dark in the early twilight. She began to chatter brightly, "Wait, I want to count noses. Is everyone here?" 231 "Yes, and mama is here, too. Her grave is all wet and looks so cold," and Kenny began to sob wildly. The lump in Gretchen's throat still choked her when at last the train pulled in and a few passengers alighted. A flashily dressed woman, accompanied by a portly man, descended upon the children. "Nora's babies!" she cried shrilly. "Aunt Winona will take care of > you. Somehow, Ronnie had got included in the caress as she threw her arms around them.
Gretchen realized, with astonishment, that the woman actually did not know how many children her sister had. Mrs.
Cappelli began to talk, moving around so that the odor of the perfume she wore reached Gretchen overpoweringly. "Your uncle and I own a tourist court in Florida.
Since receiving the news of your mother's passing, we have decided to take over the night club in connection.
Thayne can sing—oh, yes, your mother sent me the clipping the time you sang over the radio, and Nora is old enough. Oh, yes. I know your mother had this foolish idea about wanting you children to be raised on the farm—she told me so when she wrote that the doctors had given her but a short time to live. Let's see, that was before we went to Florida, while we were living at the New Breton. I wrote her that I would do what I could and for her to come to see me, but we left unexpectedly and she probably didn't come. But don't worry, Aunt Winona will take care of >? You.
232 RETCHEN knew sudden shock. Then Leonora Hackett had known she was going to die when she had conversed so calmly in that city apartment—when she had written those letters whose hidden purpose was now so apparent.
What utterly magnificent courage! Was she, Gretchen Bradley, so utterly lacking in courage that she, with the advantage all on her side, would not dare what the other woman had dared? Mr.
Cappelli cleared his throat. "Fir—that is, we can take the two older children. 'The boys here would hardly. -You are the neighbor who sent us the wire?" "Yes—no—that is." "Well, never mind," put in Mrs. Cappelli. "We can make some arrangement I am sure. The farm will have to be sold, and something could be allowed to someone for taking care of the younger children."
There was no intention, then, of fulfilling the last wish of a dying woman.
Especially was there no place in this set-up for an eightyear-old boy who bitterly missed his mother. Suddenly, Gretchen was angry.
Such heartless callousness to one's own blood! "I guess you did not know," she said determinedly, "that it was Mrs. Hackett's wish that I stay and care for her children. I have witnesses to prove what I say.
These children must not be separated." "But," sputtered the other, "I'm her sister.
Blood is thicker than  water, you know, and what you say would never hold up in court. You cannot produce a letter to prove..." "Letter!"
They all turned to face a twelve-year-old girl whose face was brilliantly alive, as she delved frantically in the deep pockets of the raincoat she wore. "Oh, Mrs. Bradley, mama gave it to me to mail, but she took so bad and I ran for Mrs. Burgess, and I forgot all about it." Her hand came out triumphantly with a thin envelope.
Unmindful of the eyes upon her, Gretchen tore it open.
They all crowded behind her as she read: Dear Mrs. Bradley: I'm asking a mighty big favor, but I believe the Lord sent me to you in answer to my prayer. I went to the apartment to beg my sister to come to the farm and care for my children when I am gone, and when I did not find her I was desperate. I knew my time was getting short.
Then you came, and I knew you had to be the one. I can rest easy if you will move to the farm and take care of my darlings. Leonora Hackett The look Gretchen turned upon the group was the satisfied one of a woman who has discovered fountains of hidden strength and who glories in the discovery. "Come, children," she said, proudly possessive, "your aunt and your uncle will want to rest before they return to Florida, and I must send a telegram to Ronnie's daddy, asking him to come and help us run the farm. I know he will be glad because he always wanted to be a farmer."
Photograph by Josef Muench ° BLACK LOCUST IN BLOOM Dresden Day Anna Prince Redd A day of opal weather, Tender and close, yet remote, As faintly scented as heather, A lark song in the throat; Crystals on new grass glistening, Sunlight in warming floods, The earth awake and listening To the whisper of stretching buds; Tomorrow may fret with thunder, I shall feel not the least dismay; Let storm confirm the wonder Of this fragile Dresden day! Page 233 'That Monson Kid!" Sylvia Probst Young of a cemetery along the highway when I stopped to give her a ride, a small, slim-bodied girl I took to be in her middle twenties. "It isn't far to town," she smiled brightly. "I came through the fields and I was going back that way. It is hot out here, but there are plenty of trees inside.' "A lovely place for a cemetery," I observed, "here on the hill overlooking the whole valley." "T like it," she said. "With the mountains all around, there's something so peaceful about it." "T read about your hero coming home. I guess this town is mighty proud of him. Not many towns can boast a soldier who won a Congressional Medal." "Yes, everybody is proud of Freck, now. You should have seen the crowd that gathered for his memorial service—officials and officers, the Governor, people from all over. It was so different from the last time he came home." "Oh.
Tell me about him will you?" S HE was coming out of the gate * * * It goes way back to grade school, Freck's story. Freck—that wasn't his name, of course; it was George Henry Monson, but no one ever called him anything but Freck, although he only had a few washedout freckles across his nose. He was a big, awkward kid with hair the color of that ripe wheat in the sun. You might have called him homely except for his eyes. I have Page 234 never seen eyes so full of longing and loneliness as his eyes were. You see most of his life Freck starved for love—love and understanding and a feeling of being wanted. He never knew his mother. She died when he was a baby, and his dad was a no-good sort—drunk most of the time, and seldom home.
Freck lived with his old grandpa, and I guess he did the best he could for the boy, but he was a stern man—hard as granite, and Freck didn't drive easily. What Freck needed was love, especially a mother's love. He was a smart boy and full of energy which, undirected, was turned into mischief. If there was a broken window, a tack on the teacher's chair, or an inkwell upset, more times than not, it was Freck who had done it. But I don't think he was ever given the benefit of a doubt; no matter what went wrong, someone was always ready to voice the general opinion, "that Monson kid again."
Being blamed only antagonized Freck, and he used to do a lot of things just to show them. The old Migzeon place is about half a mile up from ours, and Freck had to pass our place on his way to school. I think I was in the fifth grade and he in the sixth when he started to walk home with me occasionally. At those times he used to tell me the things nearest his heart, and I came to know how lonely he really was. My folks disapproved of him, however, and I "THAT MONSON KID!" think that he knew it.
After grade school days he never bothered to wait for me, and in high school he started to pal with some boys from Glenn Ferry.
Along with them, he picked up some pretty bad habits. But I knew that he would have liked so much to join in the real fun of high school—the parties and dances, because I saw him more than once watching from the side.
That was how it was for Freck— always on the outside of things, wistfully looking on. He was in his Junior year when the real trouble happened.
Some supplies were taken from the chem. Laboratory, and during a special assembly program the hall was filled with a putrid smelling gas. It caused a great deal of commotion—almost a riot. But, for once in his life, Freck wasn't implicated. 'The principal didn't believe that though, Freck was always in on the devilment. So he was expelled, with four others. HEN I came home from school a few nights later I was surprised to see him waiting at the bend in the road. It was the first time I had walked with Freck since grade school days. "Hello Jean," he said, "mind if I walk up with you?" I knew that he wanted to tell someone about what had happened. "For once, believe it or not, I had nothing to do with it," he blurted out. The anger was glinting in his eyes, and I knew that he was telling -the truth. "But old Foster has it in for me. Maybe I'd have gone another year and maybe I wouldn't, but I won't plead to get 235 back. I think old Foster is going to be sorry, though." I tried to change his mind about things, but I knew that I didn't get very far.
About a week later he and one of the boys from Glenn Ferry took the principal's car. 'They were just going over to Coatsville—about twenty five miles away—and then bring the car back.
They just wanted "to get even with the old boy," and had no intentions of causing any trouble.
Outside of Glenn Ferry, they started speeding, and then they hit another car. The occupants, a minister and his wife from California, were seriously injured.
Their car rolled over twice. The principal's car was quite badly damaged but, aside from a few cuts and bruises, Freck and his companion weren't hurt at all. But they paid dearly for that foolhardiness— in the state penitentiary for a year. I don't think anyone in town felt very sorry for Freck. "That kid had it coming to him," they said. It was almost two years before I saw Freck again, but when he came back he was a changed boy. It was in the spring of 1941, just a few days after commencement. I was working in Murphy's Drug for the summer. 'The evening he came in I was making a sundae with my back toward the counter so I didn't see him until he sat down and said hello.
There was something familiar about that "hello." I turned quickly, and there he was, smiling at me. "Freck Monson," I gasped. He grinned, "In the flesh." He was different, I knew it immediately.
Something about the 236 lift of his head—his straightforward gaze. I felt that something good had happened to him while he had been gone. |: "When did you get back?" "T came yesterday. How have you been, Jean? Golly, you're grown up.
Powell you've surely grown, too." He was instantly serious. "In more than height, I hope.
Gramp told. Me about your mother. I'm awfully sorry." A sudden shadow crossed his eyes. "I—I know how it is to have your mother dead, I've known that all my life." I saw that old hurt in his eyes, but it was gone again in a moment. "Guess I'd better get this prescription taken care of— something for Gramp's asthma." He crossed to the prescription counter, and Mr.
Murphy greeted him civilly, but that was all.
Seeing him waiting there, I suddenly thought of the story of the prodigal, but I was certain that no one would kill a fatted calf for him.
When he started to go, on sudden impulse, I called to him, "Freck, wait a minute." He came back to the fountain. ~ "Yes, Jean?" "If you can wait a few minutes Pil walk up with you, I'm off at nine." "Gee, I'd like that, but Mr. Murphy's just likely to call and tell your dad." "Freck, he wouldn't, besides dad's not home. He's East on business." It was a lovely night, the hill road was bathed in moonlight and scented with the fragrance of blossoming apple trees. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1950 ssTISHIS seems like long ago," Freck said, "me walking home with you. In those days I was always airing my grievances to you. I've learned a great deal, Jean. 'That year in jail wasn't easy, but I got a new perspective there. A warden there— Jim Hayward—makes it his business to understand people and to help them. Jean, for the first time in my life, I felt that someone understood me and believed that I could be different than my dad. He used to talk to me about life and values and about myself. He made me want to amount to something because he thought I could. "When I had served my term he got me a job on a dairy farm upstate — some friends of his — they were grand to me. I've come home now because I want to show Gramp and the town that I'm walking up the right road now. Pll always be sorry for that accident—for the injury it caused those people, but I've learned, and I know which way I'm going, now." It thrilled me to hear him saying those things. "Oh, Freck, I'm so glad," I said. "I want you to know two people believe in you—I as well as the warden."
That was the beginning of a close friendship between Freck and me and I spent a lot of time with him while he was home. Aunt Mary was a bit dubious about it. She was staying with me while dad was gone. "T don't think your dad would like you going with Freck Monson," she told me more than once. "But Freck has changed, Aunt Mary, and I believe that he'll be as fine a man as ever lived in Hillsburg.
Right now he needs a chance." "THAT MONSON KID!" But it wasn't easy for Freck. The ~ town had its opinion of him; hadn't he been in prison for a year?
People didn't forget that, nor did they let him forget it.
Building a new reputation is a tremendous task, but he tried and tried hard. A few times he went to public gatherings, but he wasn't comfortable; people turned to stare at him and whisper. So he stopped going. Oh, I'm not saying that I'm any different from the rest. It's so easy to become smug in our own little worlds, and how few of us are Christian enough to be tolerant! But in Freck's case I was all for him, because during that summer I came to love him.
More than once he told me that people were talking about me going with him, and I knew that, too, but I didn't let it bother me much, except I couldn't help wondering what dad would think if he knew. I was surprised that someone hadn't written him about it. I knew Aunt Mary wouldn't. She. Isn't like that, but there were others who might have done. In early September dad came home. He just walked in one evening without telling ys that he was coming. I was going to a show with Freck, and I was waiting for him. Dad could see that I was going out, and he seemed rather disappointed. "Well Jeanie, whose your big date? Couldn't you call it off and talk to your dad tonight?" "Why yes, dad, he'd understand. It's Freck I'm going with." "Freck! Look, Jean!" I could see the anger rising in dad's face. "That Monson kid is not in 237 your class, and I don't like the idea of your going with him like I understand you have been doing. (So someone had written him about us.) Aren't there enough nice fellows in this town without you going with a boy like that—a boy with a prison record?" IS words caused anger to flare in me. "Dad, that's not fair. Sure, Freck made a mistake, how many of us don't in one way or another? But he's paid for his folly.
What he needs now is another chance and, like everyone else, you're not willing to give that to him, youre " A sound on the porch interrupted my outburst. I ran to the window and saw Freck going down the steps.
Without another word, I was out of the house running after him. "Freck, wait. You heard. I can tell the way you look. Freck, dad doesn't understand. You knew it would be hard to change the opinion of the town. Dad's like the rest of them. But I don't care what anyone says—I believe in you | re "Jean!"
Suddenly he caught me in his arms and kissed me almost fiercely. "If you believe in me, that's all that counts, because I love you. But your dad voiced it, I'm not in your class. I've dreamed about you and me, but I guess that will always be a dream." "No it won't. I love you, too, and I won't let anyone spoil our lives." He held me close, but I knew that dad's words had been like the lash of a whip. 238 HE next week Freck went back to the dairy farm. He wrote to me, but I didn't see him again" until December. It was just about a week after Pearl Harbor that he came over to Westwood, where I was going to college, to tell me goodby. He had joined the Marines. I'll never forget how he looked in that uniform. We went out and celebrated our last night together. "Jean," he said, "I'm going to try to be so fine a Marine that your dad and the folks back home will be proud of me.
Then everything will be okay for you and me, unless you find someone while I'm gone." "Don't say that, ever. You know Pll be waiting and counting the days." That's the last time I ever saw Freck. As you know, he was killed at Saipan. You probably remember how he won that medal. I can remember those accounts of his bravery so well. "The enemy had almost completely surrounded the men from another battery. 'They were sorely in need of help.
When the fury of the attack became apparent a young P. F. C. George (Freck) Monson instantly volunteered to go to their assistance.
Freck found an unmanned ambulance jeep and headed it straight into the battle, in reckless disregard of rifle and mortar fire.
Reaching the zone of action, the youthful Marine loaded as many wounded men into the jeep as it would hold RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1950 and ran the hot gauntlet back to safety. He then returned.
Again and again, he made this trip, loading, returning, loading, returning. ~ In three amazing hours, single-handed, he evacuated forty-five wounded Marines. On his last trip he spotted two injured comrades lying in the open, in a field of intense fire. He vaulted out of the jeep and went to get them. A sniper shot him dead." You can imagine how that news affected our town.
People were amazed to thing that Freck Monson could be such a hero.
They forgot about his prison record then.
They were proud to claim him. Old Gramp Monson went back to Washington D. C. To get Freck's medal. And to the kid who had been the town rascal came the highest honor that a grateful Government could bestow. That's his story. Now, he's home again, resting in honor. He wanted to make them proud of him, and he did. But it took a war to give him that chance—a war that cost his life. X % ™ x I wanted to ask her about herself, but I didn't think that I should, and she didn't volunteer to say, though somehow the way she told me Freck's story made me know that part of her heart would always be buried beside a hero in that little cemetery in the shadow of the hills.
Plants of the New World Willard Luce | HE impact of the white man's civilization upon the red man has been terrific. Yet few people realize how much of our way of life came originally from the New World and the Lamanites. When Columbus died, he wasconsidered a failure because he had not found India and the spices and riches for which he had been searching. Magellan's success was also his failure; for, in proving that the world was round, he also proved that it was much larger than he and Columbus had believed. A ship could not reach the Spice Islands faster by sailing westward around the world. But neither man need have failed. The spices, the foods, the medicines, and the riches were all here in the New World when Columbus came. 'They were her e when Magellan by-passed them for the then known riches of the East.
Thousands of other men failed to recognize them even as Columbus and Magellan, but they were here, good and bad.
They are found in the far corners of the world.
First let us take the potato, the Irish potato, as people call it. The white potato was first discovered by white men in 1538.
Pedro de Creza de Leon reported it to be one of the natives' two principal items of food, the other one being maize or corn. He described the potato as a kind of "ground-nut."
Slowly the use of the potato as a food spread through Europe.
Ireland was the first country to cultivate it extensively, and here it is given credit for saving millions of lives during times of famine. In Scotland at first its use was prohibited, first, because it was not mentioned in the Bible, and second, because it became identified as the forbidden fruit of the garden of Fiden! In California during the gold rush, some of the Chinese restaurants lost much business by refusing to cook potatoes.
They considered them food only for the poor and poverty-stricken; rice was for the rich man. Today, the food of the "poor and poverty stricken" and the "rich" are nearly equal in popularity, for the white potato feeds more of the world's population than any other food except TICE. Of cereals, corn alone is a native of the New World. In the world today it ranks third in importance, rice and wheat heading the list. Here, then, we have two foods, cultured and developed first by the Lamanites, among the first five food producers in the world. And, of course, there are tomatoes, squash, cranberries, lima beans, peanuts, and many others, all products of the New World. Not only did the Indians develop these foods, they also developed flavorings and spices which today have considerable economic and gustatory importance: cayenne, chili, paprika, vanilla, and chocoPage 239 240 ' 4 wh Josef Muench RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1950 TASSELED CORN late, to name but a few.
Just think a moment how changed our eating habits would be without these last two, vanilla and chocolate. WO of our most important drugs also came originally from the New World.
Indians at the time of Francisco Pizarro's conquest knew the effect of chewing the leaves of the coca plant.
They knew its pain killing quality, perhaps they also knew the _habitforming devastation it wrought.
They knew, too, that the bitter, red bark of the cinchona tree cured the miseries of chills and fever. Pizarro's conquistadors found the cocaine from the coca leaves readily enough, but it was a hundred years later before the quinine of the cinchona was discovered. The PLANTS OF THE NEW WORLD Spanish conquistadors made no friends among the Indians of South America, but the Jesuit priests who came later did. One of these who had labored and worked among the Indians became desperately ill with malaria. He was finally cured by powdered cinchona bark administered by a native medicine man.
From that day until the discovery of atabrine during the last World War, the quinine from the cinchona tree was the only defense against the ravages of malaria. The drug soon reached Spain and its use rapidly spread throughout Europe where it was known as Jesuit's Powder. 'The demand became so great as to practically destroy the cinchona forests of South America. By 1795, it was estimated that twenty-five thousand _ trees were felled each year, the bark stripped, the trees left to rot. But for the Dutch, there could have been but one ending. In 1852 the Dutch government sent Justus Hasskarl to South America to collect slips and seeds of the cinchona for planting in Java. Since South America had a complete monopoly on the quinine trade, Hasskarl was anything but welcome. His native helpers saw to it that the roots of his young trees were exposed to the scorching heat of the tropical sun.
They managed to wet his seeds at every river crossing. Not only this, but they guided him to where the poor, sparse species grew. As a result of all this, Hasskarl failed in his first attempt. But a year later he went deep into the jungles of Bolivia, posing as an amateur naturalist.
After much 241 expensive bribing he secured several hundred young trees which he shipped to Batavia.
These trees were the beginning of the extensive cinchona plantations and the quinine monopoly of the Dutch East Indies. And, speaking of drugs, in 1947, an estimated 2,167,702,000 pounds of tobacco were raised in the United States alone.
This must have produced quite a quantity of nicotine! Tobacco, also, was a New World plant. For various reasons, many of the New World plants and plant products became misnamed. The Irish potato has already been mentioned.
Then there were Turkish tobacco, India rubber, and the African and French marigolds.
These bright yellow and orange flowers, although grown extensively _—_ throughout Courtesy W. Atlee Burpee Company
LUTHER BURBANK ZINNIA 242
Witlard Luce RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1950 PETUNIAS Europe and Africa, came originally from the Western Hemisphere. So did the bright yellow sunflower. 'There are about fifty species of sunflower, most of them coming from North America. The common sunflower, State flower of Kansas, grows under cultivation to a height of seventeen feet, with flower heads over a foot in diameter. It is grown extensively in Russia for poultry food.
Other species of the sunflower grown for food are the Jerusalem artichoke, and the Indian potato. Other Western Hemisphere flowers include the Poinsettia, phlox, verbenas, California poppies, nasturtiums, petunias, cosmos, and zinnias, to name a few. But not only food and flavorings and flowers and drugs came from the New World; rubber came also. It is certainly difficult to imagine our civilization without rubber. The Indians of South America understood the complicated process of curing rubber, but the more advanced civilizations of China, Persia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, and Arabia, failed to do so and all these countries either grow rubber-bearing plants or have close access to them.
Neither did the peoples of Ceylon, Indo-China, Malay, the Spice Islands, or any of the other islands of the Pacific discover rubber.
Only the Indians of South America. Whether Columbus himself PLANTS OF THE NEW WORLD brought back the Indian play-balls as it is reported, or whether they reached Europe by some other source, they remained little more than a curiosity for a great many years. But there are always men of vision. 'They kept remembering the stories of the Indian waterproof hats and boots.
They kept dreaming dreams and experimenting with the rubber.
Somehow it defied the laws of chemistry which they knew.
Progress was slow indeed. Oh, they made waterproof hats and coats and boots all right. But in the winter they became hard and brittle, and in the summer they became sticky, and gave off a very unpleasant odor. However, these men persevered Josef Muench 243 until, slowly, little by little, they came to understand this new, complicated product.
Once again South America held an almost complete monopoly, for there in the valley of the Amazon grew the best rubber producer of all the hundreds of plants which do produce it.
This time it was Fngland that smuggled out the seeds, 70,000 of them.
These seeds were quickly taken to Kew where they were planted in the orchid houses and propagating sheds.
Over two thousand of these germinated, and almost as many were shipped to Ceylon in 1876.
Other plantations were soon established in Malay and Sumatra. In her effort to maintain her moPOINSETTIA IN BLOOM 244 nopoly, South America unwittingly helped these new plantations to survive.
Instead of cutting the price of rubber, she kept pushing it up higher and higher. I n 1910 the price went to an all-time high of $3.06 a pound. At this time the plantations of Ceylon, Malay, and Sumatra were just coming into good production. This high price not only pulled the plantations out of the red, it enabled them to expand. In 1932 the price of rubber hit an all-time low of 2½ cents a pound.

As in the case of hunting a substitute for quinine, the second World War also stimulated the search for a good synthetic rubber. Yes. It is hard to imagine our civilization without rubber. It is difficult to picture our gardens without cosmos, marigolds, and zinnias; Christmas without Poinsettias. And just think of our soda fountains and candy counters without vanilla and chocolate! Think of our kitchens without them!

And our hospitals would be pain-ridden indeed without cocaine.

All of these, and many others, came from the New World, to modify and help build our way of life into what it is today.