although Queen Victoria is very heroic,
yet so many of Her Majesty’s officers have
been slain or wounded, that conditions
must necessarily have a depressing effect
upon the whole country. The Queen will
have the sympathy of all true Americans
in this time of anxiety, for she is justly
beloved by the people of the United States.
It is to be hoped that matters may be so
adjusted as to bring this cruel war to a
close; and now that the court of arbitration
is so near being established the outlook for
a final compact seems more likely to be
consummated.
	How ardently one wishes for the day
when war shall cease, and the angelic in-
junction, “On earth peace, good will to-
ward men,” find a hearty response from
all nations. The “Yule peace,” old as the
Runic stones of antiquity, a time of good
fellowship and brotherly love, quarrels all
healed, feuds forgotten, and the world ani-
mated by the universal spirit of love. Is
this too much to hope for? At any rate,
each one who strives to love his neighbor
as himself is doing his utmost to fufill the
law.  Our blessed Savior said:
	Love your enemies, do good to them which hate
you.
	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
that despitefully use you and persecute you.
	How few there are who heed these
words in the least, yet desire to keep the
commandments and excel in many ways.
Jesus in His “Sermon on the Mount” said:
“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” And
what more fitting time to strive to culti-
vate this in one’s heart than the day on
which we celebrate the nativity of the
Savior of the world?
	Many mothers and housewives are like
Martha, whom the Savior rebuked, they
work and worry and fret, over-burdened,
over-solicitous, “troubled about many
things.” It would be so much better if
there were less cooking, less variety, and
if mothers were not so weary and could
get a little more real enjoyment at Christ-
mas time.
	“At Christmas play and make good cheer,
	For Christmas comes but once a year.”
