[Column 1]
FROM A MOTHER’S STANDPOINT.
	Long ago in the lovely vales of Utah
dwelt a childless married woman. After
seven years of unsatisfied longing, loving
and revering her worthy husband more as
the years proved him to be the highest type
of manhood combined with great integrity,
they both greatly desiring offspring, which
it seemed in vain to hope for. At last,
with the full consent of all concerned, this
worthy man took to wife another Daughter
of Zion, familarly known and loved by
both husband and wife. In a year’s time a
son was born to gladden their hearts, and
in due time another son and then a daugh-
ter, then another son. Then, after a score
of years of waiting, a son, promised by the
spirit of prophecy, came to the childless
wife. She was visited by hundreds of
women, rejoicing that she had triumphed,
and saying she had been blessed even as
Sarah of old, she herself knowing it was
even so.
	In due time another son and two daugh-
ters were born to this just man and his
patient and true wife, until quite a family
belonged, to this once childless man, he still
gaining yearly the esteem and love of his
now large family, proving most faithful,
even unto death.
	Unjust persecution, cruel and needless
crusade, with a little sickness, combined to
take him to a better sphere, leaving his
wives and family to battle on and win; and

[Column 2]
with such a foundation they felt they must
not fail.
	Now, has this state of affairs wrought
good or evil?
	Those most concerned think the former
will far out-balance the latter, their
greatest ambition being to prove worthy to
live in this most holy and revealed family
order with the father of their offspring,
throughout a never ending Eternity.
	The writer having been born through
this same order of marriage, (her father
was one of the first Apostles in the Church)
cannot do otherwise than revere the same,
though her people are now prohibited from
its practise.
	With her belief, and remembering her
pioneer parents, feeling a divine assurance
that these conditions will exist forever in
Eternity for the faithful, she naturally
enters a plea for the principle as justice
for her children born in this pure and holy
order. The husband of this woman frankly
told her during their courtship that with
his convictions she might not be the only
wife he might ever take; and if she did not
feel to acquiesce, now was the time to with-
draw.
	Was this not honorable and straightfor-
ward?
	After the step was taken, she regarded
him with new interest, and no coldness
arose between them.
	Here are mentioned by title some of the
lullaby songs which the childless wife sung
to her husband’s children: There is a
Home Eternal, Wildwood Flowers, Belle
Brandon, Swanee River, Katie Wells,
Gentle Annie, Afton Waters, Rock Me to
Sleep Mother, The Mistletoe Bough, Down
in the Cornfield, Nellie Gray, Highland
Mary, O Zion. And her audience was
most appreciative until sweet sleep closed
the innocent young eyes.
	Did she enjoy amusing these chil-
dren?
	So much that if she were away from
them at eventide she longed to be with
them, even as an own mother might have
done. Can she or they forget those happy
days, the songs or the singer? Never!
	Grateful for the philosophic spirit that
inspired her she toiled for the children,
making the sewing machine hum in those
days for the dear ones; and at night those
blessed home hearts-ease concerts—truly
those were happy days!
	A piece of household furniture never to
be forgotten was a large rocker, roomily
serving for two children, in which they
often ate their evening meal. Oh! those
halcyon days are now long past.
	Now, having children of her very own,
she does not always think to sing at even-
tide (their father having gone before, she is
not as tuneful as of yore) until at their re-
quest she sings the same old songs, with
the same effect upon her audience, bring-
ing back those hearts-ease days, not then so
full of care. And she is grateful for the
truth forced upon her, that time is not al-
ways lost in singing to young children, or
those of riper years who will listen.
	One of the sons of this happy household
served his country, and distinguished him-
self by his heroism in the struggles in
Manila, with Battery A. 
	The tender young life of this precious
promised son was most tenderly cared for in
the first weeks of his helplessness by his
father’s elder sister, than whom a truer
woman never lived in mortality.
