[Column 1]
associated with the mystic traditions, and
is a relic of the days of Druidism. The old
song we used to sing says:
	“The mistleto hung in the castle hall,
	The holy branch shone on the old oak wall,
	And all the tenants were blithe and gay,
	Keeping their Christmas holiday.”
	Holly, evergreen and laurel were used
to decorate the churches in early days in
England, as they are now. Ivy, though
sometimes used, is considered more appro-
priate for solemn occasions. Late in the
17th century the Ecclesiastical Canon of
England issued a decree that all Christ-
mas decorations must be down by the last
of January, as it was thought to be un-
lucky to keep them up longer in private
houses.
	At the time when the Druids were gath-
ering their mistletoe and the Romans were
decorating their temples in honor of Sat-
urn, the Scandinavians kindled huge bon-
fires in honor of the sun god, Thor.
	The good cheer of old England at
Christmas time is proverbial, and little
wonder when one reads of the feasting.
The peacock with his gorgeous train was
a royal dish brought to the festal board by
some fair lady, and over him the knights
errant swore to do or die for their “ladyes
fayre.” From this custom comes Justice
Swallow’s oath, “By cock and pie.” In
Charles II. time turkeys and capons with
plum pudding became the regular dish,
and the mince pie still perpetuated, was a
special requisite at a Xmas dinner more
than a hundred years ago.
	The Newcastle Chronicle of 1770 gives the
contents of the famous “Christmas pye”
of the olden time. * * * Its ingredients
were 2 bushels of flour, 20 pounds of
butter, 4 geese, 2 turkeys, 2 rabbits, 4 wild
ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipe, 4 partridges,
2 neats tongues, 2 curlews, 4 blackbirds
and six pigeons, with eggs, sugar, raisins,
lemons, oranges and various kinds of
spicery. “it weighed twelve stone.” One
would wonder where it could be baked;
and yet when one knows what great fire-
places and ovens they had in those old
halls and castles, one might imagine that
even such a pie could be put in and baked.
In the lower part of the Nottingham
Castle, which, by the by, is about all that
is left of it, we saw the largest ovens, just
like a great arch, one on each side of a
huge fireplace. Of course they are not
in very good preservation, but are still
standing; and at Kenilworth Castle we
counted the remains of nine or ten im-
mense fireplaces, in one area of the ruin,
doubtless there had been ovens there
to correspond with the size of the fire-
places. When one recalls the number of
the inmates of these great buildings and
the retainers, and that there were no bake
shops adjacent to buy food from, and
everything must be made on the premises,
one can fancy great quantities of food
cooked somewhere.
	The writer when standing in St. George’s
Hall, Windsor Castle, thought of the great
banquets that had been given there to the
English warriors, and also when the brave
heroes and men were initiated into the
order of the Knights of the Garter; what
eating, drinking and carousing must have
taken place, and what wonderful prepara-
tions in the way of cooking must have pre-
ceded these great occasions. At the pres-
ent time one can buy almost everything
ready cooked, and the facilities for prepar-

[Column 2]
ing food are altogether easier than they
were even fifty years ago. 
	Christmas in England this year cannot
be a very merrie one, judging from the
dispatches of the war in South Africa, and
