[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi Monthly Meeting convened
November 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Opened with singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing. “Welcome best of all good
meetings. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne said she was fed by
hearing the sisters speak, and she wished
to hear all bear testimony. President Snow
said he loved to hear the people speak of
the Spirit, the eloquence of speech was not
what we were seeking.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she loved
to look at her sisters. Knew all could find
plenty to do at home, but knew it was
proper for us to meet together. We should
learn to overcome, which we can by the
word of our testimony and the power of the

[Column 2]
anointing. Felt thankful to associate with
God’s anointed. Any one who has a testi-
mony of this Gospel never ought to think
they have any sorrows.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had been to visit Lehi with Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and they had a time of rejoicing
together. Said that Sister Zina had spoken
in each meeting. They visited the sugar
factory. She felt that God had blessed us
as a people and provided us with every
comfort.
	Sister Smith said she knew we needed
our spirits fed and were all benefited by
meeting together.
	Sister Hunter, president of Tooele Stake
Relief Society, being present, spoke. Her
desire was to help build up the kingdom.
Spoke of the necessity of teaching our girls
and boys the principles of the Gospel. Felt
that our trials were of great benefit to us,
and exhorted all to pray to the Lord and
thank Him for our comforts and blessings.
Said in her Stake the society was doing
good and that the Lord blessed them.
	Sister Tomlinson spoke of the blessings
she had received in the Temple. Believed
the Lord would hear the mother’s prayer
when she asked His aid in raising her chil-
dren.
	Sister Amelia Wardrop said she had al-
ways believed in the law of tithing and the
word of wisdom. She had a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel to bear.
	Sister Stevenson said she had not missed
five meetings in thirteen years.
	A sister in the congregation said she had
been blessed many times by coming to these
meetings. She always found it easier to do
her work at home if she attended to her
meetings. Another sister said she knew
that in attending to her meetings she al-
ways gained time in performing her house-
hold duties. She knew if we first sought
the “kingdom of God and its righteous-
ness,” everything will be added to us.
	Sister Luie Stevenson bore a testimony
of the truth.
	Sister Phelps spoke in tongues, and Sis-
ter Young interpreted it.
	Sister Bateman and Sister Witzel bore
faithful testimonies, also two other sisters.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts said she had
offered her services to the society to talk to
these young ladies and young mothers on
their duties in life. She said she was very
anxious to do all the good she could.
	President Horne said she thought there
was a kind of awakening among the Latter-
day Saints; that our numbers were increas-
ing. She wished the Relief Society presi-
dents to explain in their societies concern-
ing the class to be organized by Dr. Roberts.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said it was the
intention to meet the coming Thursday, in
the 14th ward hall, and make costumes for
the nurses’ corps, that they may be dressed
in uniform.
	Singing, “The God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Webb.
