[Column 1]
A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY GATHERING.
	On the 16th of this month (December)
Sister Esther M. Bunnell attained the ad-
vanced age of eighty-five years. Her birth-
day was celebrated at the rooms of her
daughter, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in the
Constitution building, in this city.
	The hostess’ rooms presented a gala-day
appearance, and she gave a fine dinner on
the occasion of her mother’s anniversary.
The tables were arranged in a “T” form
and the venerable mother in Israel occupied
the seat of honor, looking as fresh and fair
as most women at fifty. On her right
hand, her daughter, the successful wom-
an physician, the first of the women of Utah
to graduate in the medical profession, and
near by, her other daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine Hardy.
	Among those present were Hon. C. W.
Penrose, editor of the Deseret Evening
News; Mrs. E. B. Wells, editor of the
Woman’s Exponent; Parley P., Louis,
Mark and Irwin Pratt, sons of Dr. Pratt,
and their wives and children, and Mrs.
Hardy’s daughters, Mr. and Mrs. Frederic
Klienschmidt and Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Pratt.
	Fifteen sat down to dinner at 6 p. m.
The table was profusely decorated with
beautiful flowers—carnations, roses and

[Column 2]
chrysanthemums, with fresh green ferns
and smilax. Elder Penrose pronounced the
blessing. The dinner was very like a
Christmas feast; an elegant birthday cake
was one of the many delicacies.
	Many good wishes and congratulations
were extended to the dear mother and
grandmother in whose honor the company
had assembled, and many compliments upon
her good looks, her personal appearance and
the remarkable preservation of her health
and faculties. She is certainly a wonder-
fully well-preserved woman, and has a
sweet spirit, which is manifest to all who
meet her from time to time.
	Sister Bunnell was born in Guilford Co.,
North Carolina, near Raleigh, Dec. 16,
1814; her maiden name was Mendenhall.
Her family were Quakers, and in the time
of the Revolutionary war, the British
troops quartered in that locality were very
troublesome. One of their Generals took
possession of her great grandfather’s, (James
Mendenhall) grist mill and farm, and
turned his company of cavalry, horses and
men into the fields of grain and other crops,
destroying everything the good old Quaker
farmer had on his premises.
	Miss Esther Mendenhall moved with her
parents to Indiana about 1830, and there
became acquainted with Isaac Bunnell,
whom she married when seventeen years of
age. She has been the mother of six chil-
dren. Two died when young and four are
still living—Romania, the eldest, and Jose-
phine, the other daughter, with their families,
reside here; Luther and Isaac in other
states. Besides her four children, Sister
Bunnell has thirteen grandchildren and
thirteen great grandchildren.
	Brother and Sister Bunnell joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
and went from Indiana to Nauvoo and
Winter Quarters, but afterwards returned
to Washington, Ohio, in Warren Co., and
purchased a farm, and subsequently to
Indiana, from which place Sister Bunnell
with her family emigrated to Utah in 1855,
in an independent company of Saints in
charge of John Hindley as captain. Sister
Bunnell was baptized about 1841 or ’42, by
Elder Amasa M. Lyman, and having a great
desire to see the Prophet Joseph Smith
paid a visit to Nauvoo, her husband’s niece,
Miss Monimia Bunnell accompanying her
as a companion on the journey.
	When afterwards she went up to Nauvoo
it was about the time of the exodus, and
with the Saints they journeyed to Winter
Quarters, on the Missouri river. Like many
others of the Saints she has seen many
changes and reverses of fortune; but her
faith in the Gospel has remained firm and.
steadfast throughout, and in the evening of
her life she has no regrets, for the days
glide smoothly by among her loved ones,
who estee m her presence a blessing and to
be near her a precious privilege.
						E. B. W.


