than hilarity, and simplicity even in giv-
ing is in much better taste than making
elaborate presents, or parading one’s

[Column 2]
generosity, as really seems to have come
to be the custom in this age. We deal
largely in extremes, even in giving, and
we do not always deal wisely with our-
selves or our friends. “Kind hearts are
more than coronets,” and the scripture
tells us, “a word fitly spoken is like apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” Therefore,
though we have not wealth to lavish on
our loved ones, we can bestow kindness
even in words.
	As a people we are in the enjoyment of
many blessings, and we have great reason
to rejoice that prosperity abounds in these
vales of the mountains and that we have
peace here, though we read and hear of
wars in other lands; and we should not for-
get the Lord in the days of our prosperity.
	Feasting and enjoying the good things
of life does not make up the sum of happi-
ness, not even at Christmas time; elabor-
ate preparations are very wearisome, and
the mother is often too much exhausted to
share in the children’s enjoyment of games
or sports, or perhaps to answer their ques-
tions about the why’s and wherefore’s of
Christmas. The injunction placed upon
us all to take care of our bodies, is greatly
disregarded at holiday times, or overdone,
we work so hard for the pleasure of a few
hours, we cook so much and some of us
eat so much that we are not happy and we
show it in our faces, therefore we are not
beautiful, though we may have bestowed
abundant pains upon our decorations to
make the home beautiful. If the mother
is care-worn or exhausted, if she cannot
wear a smiling face, then the day is not a
success. It is not necessary to have all
the luxuries the market affords, not even
on Christmas, to bring happiness; light
hearts, cheerful faces and kind words are
a far better relish at the family dinner
than the most savory dish lacking these
graces. Yet one does not like to be always
sermonizing. There are many pretty 
fancies about Christmas that have come
down to us, that set it off, so to speak, as
a day apart from all others, in the minds
of the little folks at least; and perhaps
none of us are altogether without a taste
for the mystic, and the legends and folk-
lore of ye olden time and of other lands
and other people, their habits, customs
and beliefs, have a more intense interest
because of their remoteness and the mys-
tery in which they are necessarily en-
shrouded.
	From the early Christians who sang the
midnight mass on the eve of the nativity,
in commemoration of the birth of Christ,
we get the name Christmas (Christ’s mass.)
Formerly immense logs were brought from
the forests and, often with much ceremony,
burned at Christmas time with great re-
joicing. Although we do not hear of the
yule log these days, yet a great log is
chosen even now where wood is used for
fuel; we who use coal do not have the
same feeling about the Xmas log. The
pictures in the fire on Christmas were con-
sidered significant, and the old wrongs
were thought to die out in the blaze.
Numberless superstitions that cluster

[Column 3]
around Christmas observances in the olden
time, are interwoven with Pagan and some
of them even early Christian ceremonies.
	It is said that “in Sweden on Christmas
Eve the shoes of the family are placed in
a row side by side, that harmony may pre-
vail during the year to come.” 
	“Throughout Northern Germany the
tables are spread and the lights left burn-
ing, that the Virgin Mary and the angel 
who brings the presents may find refresh-
ments.”
	This to us seems very absurd, but if in
our day the children thought more of the
mother or father, sister, brother or friend,
who gives on these occasions, and paid
them the reverence which is their due, the
spirit of jealousy and contention would
cease, and greater reverence might be ac-
corded to those who are really the good
angels in disguise.
	Even to this day it is a belief in Corn-
wall, Devonshire, and in English villages,
that the bees hum and that the cattle kneel
on Christmas Eve in adoration of the
Holy Child; and it is said the powers of
darkness are unable to work evil on man-
kind. Shakespeare, who is more often
quoted than any other poet, says:

“Some say that ever ’gainst that season comes
Wherein our Savior’s birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
And then, they say, no spirit can walk abroad;
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallowed and so precious is the time.”

	The customs connected with the chil-
dren’s idea of Christmas have their origin
in Germany and the Netherlands. Our
little ones imitate the child of Holland
when they hang their stockings in front of 
the fireplace, so Santa Claus will find
them when he descends the chimney. The
beautiful Christmas tree, its branches
laden and lights sparkling, a sine que non,
with children nowadays is distinctly a
heathen idea perpetuated by the German
and Scandinavian races. The floral deco-
rations, which add so much to the beauty
of the festival, were inaugurated in the
days of the Saturnalia when the Roman
temples and houses were decorated with
flowers and garlands in honor of the god
of light. In the days of early antiquity
the British Druids reverenced the mistletoe
as something holy, when they found it
growing on an oak, the favorite tree of 
their divinity, Tutanes, the sun. When
they celebrated the winter solstice the
ancient Britons, accompanied by Druids,
went with music and singing to gather the
sacred mistletoe, and it was believed to
have a healing power. Clothed in white
the chief priest cut the tree with a golden
knife and the mistletoe (a sort of parasite)
would fall into the robe of the priest stand-
ing below, who distributed it among the
people, who carried it home and hung it
under the roof as a protection and shelter
to the sylvan deities during the winter
frost and cold. The Druids regarded the
pearly berries of the plant as an emblem
of purity and used it in the marriage rite.
The mistletoe custom still observed of
snatching a kiss under the mistletoe is


