[Column 1]
HEROINES OF THE REVOLUTION.
	One of the well-known women and
what she endured, was Anna Warner Bailey,
known as Mother Bailey. She witnessed
the massacre of Fort Griswold, walked
three miles to find a wounded uncle, and at
his request to see his wife and child she ran
home, saddled a horse for the feeble mother,
and carried the child herself to see the dy-
ing patriot. In 1813, when the British
threatened to attack New London, she tore
up flannel garments for cartridges. What a
heroic character!
	What did our Revolutionary grandmothers
not do? They were obliged to go into the
fields and work, because there were no
men to be had. The women had to farm,
cook, nurse, fight and protect themselves.
Deborah Sampson, whose story we
completed in our last issue, died in Sharon,
Conn., in 1827, at fifty-seven years of age.
She sustained to the end a brave character,
made a faithful and exemplary wife and
mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and we
will thank her for her part in the war
which helped to set us free, and overlook
the unpleasantness of her adventure.
“True patriots, like true saints, frequently
come out of great tribulations strong men
and women.”
	The women suffered greatly from small-
pox contracted from the British soldiers.
Hannah Cartaret, daughter of Sir George
Cartaret, of New Jersey, was among the
list. She became the wife of Cornelius
Bryant and they had a daughter, Betsy
Bryant, who was called one of the heroic
girls of the Revolution. She is called the
Revolutionary grandmother of our chapter,
for there are two members of the Knicker-
bocker chapter descended from these two
brave women. Many handsome women
and pretty girls were made ugly looking,
and many died of small-pox.
	They knew how sublime a thing it is to
suffer and be strong.
	Mrs. Hannah Caldwell, wife, of the
“Soldier Parson,” of Elizabeth, N. J., was
praying for her enemies that they might be
pardoned, when she was shot. She had an
infant in her arms at the time. She left
nine children, one son, John Edwards, was
afterwards adopted and educated by the
Marquis de LaFayette.
	No pen of historian or poet can tell the
story of the Revolution as it actually
pressed upon the hands and hearts of our
grandfathers and grandmothers. The ex-
ertions and sacrifices made by them are far
beyond computation, and by the blessings
of heaven they achieved a success beyond
their hopes. For more than a hundred
years their posterity has been reaping the

[Column 2]
fruits of their toils, and a vast and growing
Republic is their monument.
	The Revolution not only tried the
courage of our grandfathers, but also of
our grandmothers. “Mrs. Nancy Bundy
with her husband and two children, was
captured at the massacre of Wyoming and
taken to Genesee County where she was
parted from her husband. She had not
been there long before the Indian who
took her prisoner wished her to become his
wife, which she refused, saying, ‘I have
one, it would be unlawful for me to take
another.’ He left her. Shortly after he
returned saying, ‘Now you have me—your
husband is dead,’ to which she replied, I
cannot marry a murderer.’ When he saw
she hated him, he tied her, took her to
Niagara, and sold her for eight dollars.
She never knew what became of her chil-
dren.”—History of Scoharie, on page
336.
	The burden of the war fell very heavily
upon New Jersey; it was the battlefield of
the Revolution. The women of Morris
County were brave, especially so the shrewd
Mrs. Miller, When she heard the British
declare they would triumph, she concen-
trated the Whigs of that region and held
meetings in her own house so as to defeat
the Tories, and cleared them out, showing
her great power. There were many women
like her. Oh, that we could know their
names!
	Anna Kitchell was a fair representative
scorning protection. While her husband
and four brothers were away in the Ameri-
can army, she kept the great pot full of
food for the patriot soldiers, and when asked
why she did not have some protection she
replied: “If the God of battle will not take
care of us we will fare with the rest.” This
large pot held half a barrel of meat and
potatoes, and similar pots were kept filled
in other homes.
