[Column 1]
to preside over the European mission.
	After filling this last foreign mission, he
returned home to renew his labors in Zion
with greater zeal and earnestness, if that
were possible. In February, 1869, he was
elected probate Judge of Weber County, and
in May of that year moved to Ogden where
he has ever since resided, though much of
his time has been spent in Salt Lake City,
owing to his Ecclesiastical duties as one of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
he has also been Church Historian ever since
the death of Apostle Orson Pratt. When
the State Historical Society was organized
something over two years ago, Apostle
Richards was elected president. At the
time of President Wilford Woodruff’s de-
cease, when President Lorenzo Snow be-
came president of the Church, Apostle
Richards succeeded to the presidency of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
	In all the official positions to which Presi-
dent Richards has been appointed or elected,
he has been faithful to the trust and mag-
nified his calling. No man in the Church
was, perhaps, more widely known, and he
was universally respected and beloved. He
has gone full of honors and ripe in years to
an eternal inheritance, and his name will
be held in everlasting remembrance unto
the latest generation of those who dwell
upon the earth.
	The funeral services of President F. D.
Richards were held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, December 12, commenc-
ing about 1:30 p. m. Several car loads of
people from Salt Lake City went to Ogden
to attend the funeral. Presidents L. Snow,
G. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, Brig-
ham Young and all the other Apostles who
were at home in Utah, several of the presi-
dents of Seventies, and many other breth-
ren, sisters and friends.
	The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white, and the lovely floral offerings were
numerous and many of them magnificent.
The Relief Society of Weber Stake presented
a column of exquisite flowers as a token of
their love and respect for President Rich-
ards, who on all occasions had been their
firm friend and counselor, and never failed
to attend their conferences when it was pos-
sible to meet with them. Such tokens of
appreciation are all the friends can give to
express their tenderness and sympathy for
those who mourn; and there is some satisfac-
tion in bestowing a beautiful gift in times
of sorrow.
	The large Tabernacle was filled to over-
flowing and many were unable to gain
admittance. The exercises were conducted
by Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the Second
Ward. The choir sang that favorite hymn
“O, my Father,” at the opening, and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the pray-
er. The choir sang “Nearer my God to
Thee.”
	President L. W. Shirtliff, of the Weber
Stake, was the first speaker, then Bishop
McQuarrie and Hon. D. H. Perry. A
quartette, “The Passing of the Sweetest
Soul,” was beautifully rendered, after
which Apostle Brigham Young, though
much affected, addressed the assembly.
	President Lorenzo Snow in his remarks
alluded to President Richards and himself
having been ordained to the Apostleship on
the same day, and paid a loving and elo-
quent tribute to his labors and his memory,
blest his family and closed by saying: “We
may think we have sustained a great loss,
but let us understand what Brother Richards
himself has gained.”

[Column 2]
	Presidents Cannon and Smith each spoke
a few moments, testifying of the valiant
works of the deceased and the love they
bore him; of his unflinching integrity to the
Gospel, his humility of spirit and meekness,
and blest his family, his sons and his
daughters.
	The choir sang as the closing hymn,
“Farewell all earthly honors,” and
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
benediction.
EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE YOUNG.
	Mrs. Emily Dow Partridge Young, wife
of the late President Brigham Young, and
one of the distinguished heroines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life, Saturday, December 9,
1899, at 4 o’clock, aged seventy-five years,
nine months and ten days.
	Mrs. Young was born in the town of
Painesville, Geauga county, Ohio, on
February 28, 1824. Her parents were
Edward Partridge and Lydia Clisbee Par-
tridge, and were both of them born in
Massachusetts, but moved to Ohio with
their parents when young people, where
they became acquainted, married and settled
in Painesville. Bishop Edward Partridge,
the father of Mrs. Young, was the first pre
siding Bishop ordained in the Church. He
was baptized December 11, 1830, at Seneca
Falls, New York State, by Joseph Smith,
whither he had gone to see the Prophet.
	Mrs. Young grew to womanhood under
the influence of the Gospel, and has been
faithful and devoted to the work through-
out her whole life, never swerving to the
right nor left. With her the Gospel was
ever uppermost. The purity of the life of
this good woman is and has ever been be-
yond question, yet she has known such
persecution as but few women have ex-
perienced. In Kirtland, in Missouri, in
Nauvoo, everywhere that the Saints have
settled Mrs. Young has been associated
with them and passed through the trials
and tribulations incident to the history of
this people. Her autobiography written
by herself and published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, gives some of the most thrilling
instances that have transpired among the
Saints.
	Mrs. Young was gifted intellectually if
she had cultivated her talent for writing,
and could have given us reminiscences of
the experiences of the Saints that would
have been a valuable acquisition to Church
history.
	Mrs. Emily D. Partridge Young was one
of the first women to accept and enter into
the order of plural marriage. She became
the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith with
the full and free consent of his wife, Emma
Smith. After his death she again entered
into that order and was married to President
Brigham Young, and received her blessings
and all the ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple at Nauvoo, and with
her husband crossed the Mississippi river in
Feb. 1846, at the time of the exodus of the
Saints from Illinois. During that weari-
some journey she experienced many hard-
ships, being in delicate health and travel-
ing with a young babe at that most in-
clement season of the year; but she never
murmured or repined, but bore patiently all
the hardships incident to the journey and
life at Winter Quarters afterwards. The
eldest son of Mrs. Young, born in Nauvoo,
died in this city at the age of seven. He
was named Edward Partridge Young, and

[Column 3]
was a very bright and promising boy. Sis-
ter Young has been the mother of seven
children, Emily Augusta, her eldest daugh-
ter, is the wife of Bishop H. B. Clawson;
Caroline, the second daughter, is the wife
of President George Q. Cannon. Her only
living sun, Prof. Don Carlos Young, resides
at present in Provo and is connected with
the Brigham Young Academy. Miriam is
the wife of Bishop Leonard G. Hardy, and
recently moved to Canada (the only one
absent from the city.) Josephine is the wife
of Dr. A. C. Young. A daughter, Luna,
the youngest child, died when seven
months old. Mrs. Young has over forty
grandchildren, several great grandchildren,
a numerous posterity, and all in the faith of
the Gospel in which she believed and for
which she made great and noble sacrifices.
Mrs. Young was a very retiring, modest-
and reticent woman, but firm in her con-
victions as the everlasting hills.
	Mrs. Young passed away peacefully at
last, although she has suffered with sick-
ness considerably during the last few years.
Her death was the result of general debility
brought on by a kind of nervous prostra-
tion and weakness. She was greatly be-
loved by her own family and also loved and
revered by the family of her late husband,
and the women of the Latter-day Saints
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
She died at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Clawson, in the Twelfth Ward, though
her own home is in the Second ward.
	Verily it may be said of this saintly
woman, “Her children rise up and call her 
blessed.”
	The funeral services were held in the
Twelfth Ward meeting house and were of a
most interesting character. There were
many floral emblems placed upon the bier,
beautiful designs and loose flowers, fra-
grant with perfume, as was her sweet life
of purity and loveliness. The casket was
pure white and the house was draped with
white; there were no symbols of death and
no feeling of gloom. Tears were shed in
love and sympathy, but only for the separ-
ation from one so well beloved.
	Counselor Wardrop conducted the exercises.
Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith were present, and of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles, President Brigham
Young, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale and H. J. Grant.
	The singing was by a quartette of male 
voices, George D. Pyper, H. S. Ensign,
James Dunbar and J. D. Spencer. The
first hymn rendered was “Art thou weary.”
Then an eloquently sympathetic prayer
by Elder Seymour B. Young. The quartette,
“The Savior will comfort you,” was feel-
ingly given.
	President Brigham Young was the first
speaker. He testified to his high regard for
the deceased and spoke of her many virtues.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman followed in a simi-
lar strain, alluding to the sterling character-
istics of the Partridge family.
	President George Q. Cannon dwelt upon
the noble life and many admirable qualities
of Sister Young and of her being a woman
of literary ability, although she had been
backward in exercising herself in this
direction.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered the
principal discourse, relating many notable
instances and events that had transpired in
the days of the Prophet Joseph. The
speaker seemed filled to overflowing with 
the Holy Spirit.


The closing hymn was “The Night of
Rest,” and the benediction was by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
Sister Young was buried in the city
cemetery, a long line of carriages following
the hearse to the last resting place of the
deceased, where the earthly tabernacle of
the dear departed one was consigned to the
grave, whtch was dedicated by Apostle
Teasdale. And another of the illustrious
heroines of the days of the Prophet Joseph
has gone to meet him on the other side.

So—by small, slow footsteps,
By the daily cross,
By the heart’s unspoken yearning,
By its grief and loss;
So—He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest."


