EDITORIAL NOTES.
	R. K. THOMAS has a fine display of dry
goods, artistically arranged for Christmas
showing. The genial, good-natured mer-
chant himself is always at his post, and has
a pleasant word for all who enter to look at
his large and substantial supply of winter
goods and ready made clothing.
	C. R. SAVAGE has a fine assortment of
everything in the way of Christmas goods,
and also Santa Claus trees and photography.
One can purchase magazines there, too, for
he keeps a sort of news stand and has been
established so many years in business along
the lines mentioned, that he scarcely needs
advertising. C. R. Savage’s art and picture
gallery is known from the Pacific to the
Atlantic in all the large cities.
	MARGETTS bookstore though not so old
is well equipped with books, stationery and
large and small children’s sleds, towboggins
and Christmas trees, everything to please
the little folks, and suitable gifts in great
variety, magnificent dolls and a great vari-
ety of such articles as stationers keep are
always obtainable at Margetts.
	THE elegant new book store of Geo. Q.
Cannon & Sons, on Main Street, has a
fine display for the holidays[-] in rare pictures,
books, dolls and gorgeous toys; everything
to make glad the heart and please the fancy,
and suitable gifts and souvenirs for Christ-
mas greetings, gatherings and festivities;
all kinds of stationery and everything in
that line. This is also a printing and
publishing house and they keep on hand all
Latter-day Saint Church works.
	THE George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation of Utah, held services in memory of
the one hundredth anniversiry of the death
of George Washington, First President of
the United States and Father of his Country,
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Sunday eve-
ning, December 17. The house was
crowded. An interesting address by Mrs.
C. E. Allen and an eloquent speech by the
Rev. Clarence Brown and music by the
Orpheus and Chaminade Clubs, with solo
by George D. Pyper, were notable features
of the evening.


