[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Hon. Franklin D. Richards, president of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, departed this life just
after midnight, Saturday, December 9,
1899. After a lingering illness of some
weeks, he succumbed to the inevitable, and
finally fell into a peaceful slumber and in
reality never tasted death.
	Not only does his family mourn for him,
but all Israel mourns sincerely the loss of
this great leader, one of the veterans of the
Church, who has “borne the heat and burden
of the day” lo, these many years, who has
labored unceasingly and unfalteringly for
Zion. But he has entered into light and
has, no doubt, met with his co-workers in
the Quorum of the Apostles, who had pre-
ceded him, and is with the martyred Prophet
and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
The Saints do not mourn for him, but only
for the loss to those here, who miss his
ministrations and labors in the Church. We
know his life, his labors, his integrity to
the truth, entitle him to all the blessings
and privileges of the celestial world—he
has passed from death into life; therefore,
there is no need to mourn except for his
presence here, and, no doubt, he was weary
with his multifarious labors and his many
years of faithful service.
	President Richards possessed a noble,
tender, affectionate and sympathetic nature
and a kindly disposition. He was refined
and sensitive in a marked degree, affable
and courteous in manner, and singularly
gifted in conversation. He had a fund of
information on a great diversity of subjects,
and a wonderful flow of language. He
was an eloquent public speaker, always de-
lighting his audience, and was greatly gifted
in calling upon the Lord in prayer.
	His labors have been so diversified, he
has filled so many important places and
accomplished so much real work as a mis-
sionary, a judge, a legislator, a presiding
officer and leader in many capacities, that it
would be impossible in our little paper to
do even scant justice to his life-work; but
as a friend and advocate of the woman’s
cause, equality of rights and woman’s pub-
lic, work in the Church, the women of Zion
had no more staunch supporter. The Relief
Society depended in a great measure upon
President Richards for advice and counsel.
He always attended their conferences when

[Column 2]
it was possible for him to do so, and his in-
structions were ever timely and inspira-
tional.
	But the faithful servants and handmaidens
of God who helped lay the foundation of
the Church here upon the earth in this dis-
pensation, one after another are passing
away, gathering home:
“They are gathering homeward from every land
	One by one,
As their weary feet touch the shining sand,
	One by one.
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the mead,
Where the Lamb of God doth His chosen lead
	One by one.
We, too, shall come to the river’s side
	One by one,
We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.
We can hear the noise and dash of the stream,
Now and again thro’ our life’s deep dream;
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow;
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
	One by one.
Jesus, Redeemer, we look unto Thee,
	One by one
We lift up our voices triumphantly,
	One by one.
The waves of the river are dark and cold,
We know not the place where our feet may hold;
Thou, who didst pass through in deep midnight,
Strengthen us, send us the staff and light
	One by one."
	Franklin Dewey Richards, like many of
the leading men and women of the
Church, comes of the New Eng-
land Puritan stoc[-]; he was born in
Richmond, Berkshire Co, Massachusetts,
April 2, 1821. His parents were Phinheas
Richards and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were Congregationalists, and their
children were trained up in piety, according
to the Puritan principles and customs of
that day; trained in honesty, industry
sobriety, virtue, integrity and uprightness,
and to strictly observe the Sabbath day.
	As a boy Brother Richards was a diligent
student, and attended Sunday School regu-
larly and was early impressed with religious
views, but differed in his scriptural ideas
from those of most people with whom he
was associated, and, therefore, declined a
special offer made to him to study for the
ministry in a leading New England college.
The Lord had something better for him, as
his after life has proven. Elders Brigham
and Joseph Young carried the Gospel to his
native town in the summer of 1836, and
left the Book of Mormon in the Richards
family.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards became
acquainted with the family of Isaac Snyder
while preaching the Gospel as a mission-
ary in Northern Indiana, and subsequently,
Dec. 18, 1842, married Miss Jane Snyder,
the youngest daughter of Brother and Sister
Snyder, at Nauvoo, Illinois, whither the
family had previously gathered.
	Elder Richards left Nauvoo in 1843 with
Brigham Young, president of the Twelve
Apostles, to preach the Gospel in the Atlan-
tic States, expecting, too, to sail for Europe;
but before sailing they heard of the dread-
ful tragedy, the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch, and returned to Nauvoo.
	Elder Richards traveled in 1845 among
the Saints in Michigan, and gathered dona-
tions for the Nauvoo Temple. When the
exodus came he committed his family to
the Great Creator’s care, after fitting them
out with a team and wagon, and the few
necessaries he could supply, and again
started on a mission to England. Elder F.
D. Richards and his brother, Samuel W.,

[Column 3]
accompanied Apostle Parley P. Pratt upon
this mission. Previous to sailing from New
York, Sep. 22, 1846, word reached Elder
Richards that his wife had borne a son, and
that the babe had only lived one hour.
They reached Liverpool October 14, and
there Elder Richards filled several very re-
sponsible positions in the British mission,
lab[-]ring faithfully among the people and in
the office at Liverpool.
	In February, 1848, he was appointed to
take charge of a large company of Saints
who were coming to the Rocky mountains.
Before reaching home he heard of the death
of his little daughter, Wealthy, who had
been born in Nauvoo. This little one left
his wife lonely and heart-broken. His
brother, Joseph William, a member of the
Mormon Battalion, had also died during his
absence upon this mission.
	Elder Richards and family reached Salt
Lake valley October 19, 1848, enduring
many hardships on the journey. Sister
Richards was very sick the entire way,
much of the time it seemed as though she
could not live to reach her destination.
	On the 12th of February, 1849, Elder
Richards was ordained an Apostle in the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of the
same year he was called to go on another
mission to England with Apostles John
Taylor, who was going to France, and
Lorenzo and Erastus Snow, to Scandinavia.
During his mission in Great Britain at this
time he filled the office of president (while
Orson Pratt went to America on business)
and edited the Millennial Star and began
the establishment of the Perpetual Emigra-
tion Fund.
	In 1851, when Apostle Pratt was called
home, Franklin D. Richards was installed
as president of the European mission. Dur-
ing the time he was presiding he revised
and enlarged the L. D. S. Hymn Book, and
published an edition of 25,000 copies,
prepared the pamphlet The Pearl of Great
Price, sterotyped the Book of Mormon, and
arranged for sterotyping the Doctrine
and Covenants, issued a new edition of the
Voice of Warning, by P. P. Pratt, and
made the Millennial Star a weekly instead
of a semi-monthly periodical, and performed
various other important labors in connec-
tion with his brethren in the mission. He
returned from this mission in 1852, arriving
in the valley August 20. He remained at
home less than two years, participated in
various public affairs—legislative, military,
civil and Ecclesiastical—and early in 1854
set off again for another mission to Europe,
reaching Liverpool June 4, 1854. It was
while on this mission, in 1855, he founded
42 Islington, which place has been the
Saints’ headquarters ever since.
	In October, 1855, the original Saxon
mission was established in Dresden under
the personal direction of President Richards.
It was also within his province to direct the
branches in the East Indies, Africa, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and other parts of the
world. Among other literary labors per-
formed at this period, President Richards
published Sister Eliza R. Snow’s first
volume of poems.
	President Richards returned home early
in the fall of 1856, and was busily engaged
in public duties, building up Zion at home
from that time, until in 1866 he was again
appointed on a mission. He arrived in
Liverpool, September 11, and began visiting
the Conferences in Europe, including Scan-
dinavia and other continental Conferences.
In July, 1867, he was again appointed


