[Column 1]
SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened
October 28, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Horne said we are here in this
world to be tried and proven, and we will
get what we merit in this school for future
life. If we are living to gain celestial glory,
we must do the work that we may merit
such glory. We have the promise that if
we seek, we shall find. This is the last
dispensation, time is drawing to a close.
The Savior says, “He that overcometh
shall sit down with me.” We should
strive to overcome our weaknesses. Said
she wished the president of each society
when there is sickness to apply to Superin-
tendent Riter for a nurse. They should
also keep a report of the nurses in their
respective wards and we should not make
paupers of people, we should be wise judges,
help those who are needy, but some solicit
alms when not needy.
	Sister Johnson bore a faithful testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor Webb said though we had had
comparative peace, it seemed that the evil-
minded were organizing themselves against
us now.
	Sister Wright spoke of the necessity of
having faith and helping each other in time
of sickness, and not be filled with fear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde believed every
woman should have her name on the tithing
books. She read a sketch from the Deseret
News, defaming the Church and people.
	Sister Julia Howe said she knew we were
misrepresented, wished we were more per-
fect. Many were straying away, the re-
sponsibility was great upon the parents.
Felt that the Relief Society teachers could
accomplish much in their rounds, in talking
to the mothers in regard to their children.
Exhorted them to have their children attend
their meetings.
	Sister Brown said she wished to be very
honest and faithful, and knew she must
watch herself carefully.
	A sister (name unknown) bore a testi-
mony of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall felt grieved because of
the reports detrimental to our people, that
go out and get published to the world.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver.”
	Sister C. S. Williams said she was born
in the Church. Thought we did not appre-
ciate it as the people who came from the
world. She had heard an apostle say that
those born under the covenant would be
claimed by the parents.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said we should
pray for those who are placed over us. She
had never received any injury from attend-
ing the most malignant cases of scarlet
fever, and she believed the Lord helped us
under these circumstances.
	Sister Bateman said she had been in the
Church over fifty years. She thanked the
Lord every day that she had been gathered
with the Saints.
	A stranger in the congregation said she
was a friend of women. Said the great
calamity the world was looking for was the
Almighty separating the wheat from the
tares.
	President Horne made some promises to

[Column 2]
the sisters in regard to their spiritual wel-
fare. Said we have a knowledge of things;
that God has revealed himself unto us; that
the Elders are going into the nations pro-
claiming His Gospel continually. Whom
do we persecute, injure or annoy? Said we
would hold, if convenient, our conference
on the 23rd of December, the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Said she wished
the Relief Society presidents to prepare for
comfort of the poor in the wards.
	Meeting adjourned by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished.” Benediction
by J. S. Woolley.
