[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
’Tis meet we render praise.
	Thanksgiving Day had its origin in
America (the New World) appointed by our
Puritan fathers away back in the time of
the first settlements in New England, they
having left the old world where they had
been persecuted for their religion’s sake
and driven from place to place. At last
they sailed to the shores of the New World
with a determination to be free to worship
God according to the dictates of their own
conscience.
	One year had passed away since they
landed from the Mayflower, when, accord-
ing to history, they held the first Thanks-
giving Day. The following selected lines
describe it so beautifully. They were sug-
gested by this extract from Palfrey’s his-
tory of New England:
	There was great store of wild Turkeys of which
they took many besides venison—the fowlers had
been sent out by the Governor that so they might,
after a special manner rejoice together after they
had gathered the fruits of their labor.
The First Thanksgiving.
BY ALICE WILLIAMS BOTHERTON.
					I.
In Puritan New England a year had passed away,
Since first beside the Plymouth coast the English
	Mayflower lay,
When Bradford, the good Governor, sent fowlers
	forth to snare
The turkey and the wild fowl, to increase the
	scanty fare:—
					II.
“Our husbandry hath prospered; there is corn
	enough for food,
Though the ‘pease be parched in blossom, and the
	corn indifferent good.’
Who blessed the loaves and fishes for the feast
	miraculous,
And filled with oil the widow’s cruse, He hath re-
	membered us!
					III.
“Give thanks thanks unto the Lord of hosts, by whom we
	all are fed,
Who granted us our daily prayer, ‘Give us our
	daily bread!’
By us and by our children let this day be kept for
	aye,
In memory of His bounty, as the land’s Thanks-
	giving day.”
					IV.
Each brought his share of Indian-meal the pious
	feast to make,
With the fat deer from the forest and the wild fowl
	from the brake,
And chanted hymn and prayer were raised—
	though eyes with tears were dim— 
“The Lord He hath remembered us, let us remem-
	ber Him!”
					V.
Then Bradford stood up at their head and lifted
	up his voice:—
“The corn is gathered from the field, I call you to
	rejoice;
Thank God for all His mercies, from the greatest
	to the least;
Together have we fasted, friends, together let us
	feast.”
					VI.
“The Lord who led forth Israel was with us in the
	waste;
Sometime in light, sometime in cloud, before us he
	hath paced.
Now give Him thanks, and pray to Him who
	holds us in His hand
To prosper us and make of this a strong and
	mighty band!”
					VII.
From Plymouth to the *Golden Gate, today their
	children tread,
The mercies of the bounteous Hand upon the land
	are shed;

[Column 2]
The “flocks are on a thousand hills,” the prairies
	wave with grain,
The cities spring like mushrooms now, where once
	was desert plain.
					VIII.
Heap high the board with plenteous cheer and
	gather to the feast,
And toast that sturdy Pilgrim band whose courage
	never ceased,
Give praise to that All-Gracious One by whom
	their steps were led,
And thanks unto the Harvest’s Lord who sends
	our “daily bread!”
*Phillipines.
	The first proclamation of Thanksgiving
Day that will be found in printed form is
the one issued by Francis Bernard, captain-
general and governor-in-chief in and over
his majesty’s province of Massachusetts
Bay in New England, and vice-admiral of
the same, in 1763. This is the text:
First Thanksgiving Proclamation.
	“As the business of the year is now drawing to-
ward a conclusion, we are reminded, according
to the laudable usage of the Province, to join to-
gether in a graceful acknowledgment of the mani-
fold mercies of the Divine Providence conferred
upon Us in the passing Year: Wherefore, I have
thought to appoint, and do, with the advice of his
Majesty’s Council, appoint Thursday, the Third
Day of December next, to be a day of public
Thanksgiving, that we may thereupon with one
Heart and Voice return our most Humble Thanks
to Almighty God for the gracious Dispensations of
His Providence since the last religious Anniversary
of this kind, and especially for—that He has been
pleased to preserve and maintain our most gracious
Sovereign, King George, in health and Wealth, in
Peace and Honor, and to extend the Blessings of
his government to the remotest part of his Domin-
ions; that He hath been pleased to bless and pre-
serve our gracious Queen Charlotte, their Royal
Highnesses, the Prince of Wales, the Princess
Dowager of Wales, and all the Royal family, and
by the frequent increase of the Royal issue to
assure us the Continuation of the Blessings which
we derive from that illustrious House; that He
hath been pleased to prosper the whole British
Empire by the Preservation of Peace, the Increase
of Trade and the opening of new Sources of
National Wealth; and now particularly that He
hath been pleased to favor the people of this
Province with healthy and kindly Seasons, and to
bless the Labour of their Hands with a Sufficiency
of the Produce of the Earth and of the Sea.
	“And I do exhort all Ministers of the Gospel
with their several Congregations, within this Prov- 
ince, that they assemble on the said Day in a
Solemn manner to return their most humble thanks
to Almighty God for these and all other of His
Mercies vouchsafed unto us, and to beseech Him
notwithstanding our Unworthiness to continue His
gracious Providence over us. And I command
and enjoin all Magistrates of Civil Officers to
see that the said Day be observed as a Day set
apart for religious worship, and that no servile
Labour be performed thereon.
	“Given at the Council Chamber in Boston the
Fourth Day of November, 1767, in the Eighth
Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George
the Third, by the Grace of God, of Great Britain,
France and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith,
etc.					FRA. BERNARD.
	“By His Excellency’s Command.
	“God Save The King.”
					A. OLIVER, Sec’ry.
	Years passed on filled with trials and
tribulations. Such times that tried men’s
souls to the center and strengthened their
faith in God, and educated our forefathers
and mothers up to that high standard where
they would rather suffer death as martyrs
than to forsake the principles of truth and
right, by which consequence liberty came to
them and us, after seven long years of war
with the mother country.
	So opened a new Era to the nation’s
heroes and heroines, and adds one more
great blessing for which to be thankful. I
feel certain they did not forget to keep the
“Thanksgiving Day” each year as it came
along with its prosperity.
	One Hundred and twenty-three years

[Column 3]
have since passed and the nation still does
honor to God and the illustrious Pilgrims.
Each year the President of the United
States issues a proclamation to the nations,
telling how the day shall be celebrated and
proclaiming it a public holiday. The
Governor of each state issues a similar
proclamation to the people in his state.
	Indeed we have much to be thankful for.
It is impossible to trace our country’s his-
tory, from 1776 up to the present, without
feeling that Providence, which was with
them at the beginning, has continued to us
as a nation His gracious interposition.
When we have been engaged in war, He
has given us the victory. In peace we
have been singularly blessed, and our pro-
gress has gone on unchecked and ever
increasing In boundless wealth of soil and
mine and forest, nature has blessed us,
while all races of men of every nation, abili-
ty and climate, have contributed their
good blood to make our nation what it is.
We have grown from thirteen states to
forty-five. We have increased in wealth
and extent and importance in every way.
The youth of our country is also increasing,
and on them will rest the responsibility of
good government in the future. They
are being educated for the work by the
fatherly care of both state and nation.
Government by the people has been ad-
vanced. Freedom under the flag is more
universal than when the Union was first
formed. Patriotism dwells, in the hearts of
the people. Witness 250,000 springing to
arms at the first call of our honored presi-
dent, William McKinley, at the beginning
of the Spanish war; also the 70,000 recently
enlisted men, and thousands ready to enlist
if their country needed them.
	After one hundred and twenty-three
years our “Liberty” stands unshaken. May
we not feel assured that if we do our duty,
Providence, which favored the undertakings
of the Fathers and every step of the pro-
gress since, will continue this watchful care
over us, and that the hand which led us to
our present plane will not relax its grasp
until we have reached the glorious goal He
has fixed for us in the achievement of this
end.
	But the crowning blessing for which we
should be most thankful is the restoration
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has
been restored to this great “Land of Zion”
and to every honest heart who will receive
it with its saving and healing power. It
has  come to heal up the nations and
make fruitful the waste places; to bind up
the broken hearted; to restore peace and
universal brotherhood in all the nations of
the earth.
	We should rejoice that His holy Temples
are being built, that between heaven and
earth a communication has been restored
from which cometh light to all the world,
and God has not forgotten his children.

	“Be Thou, O God, exalted high,
	And as Thy glory fills the sky,
	So let it be on earth displayed,
	Till Thou art here, as there, obeyed.”

	“From all that dwells below the skies
	Let the Creator’s praise arise,
	Let the Redeemer’s praise be sung
	Through every land by every tongue.”

	“Eternal are Thy mercies, Lord,
	Eternal truth attends Thy word,
	Thy praise shall sound from shore to
		shore,
	Till suns shall rise and set no more.”
