Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission.
The Compton branch Relief Society was organized November 20, 1924, with Mrs. Sarah E. Snow as president, and a group of able assistants, and has grown into a very active Society. Many quilts and other articles have been made and sold and the proceeds spent in helping the needy. The Society held an entertainment on September 18, which was a great success. It was called "Trip Around the World." Six different countries were represented in the homes of six of the members. After all the countries were visited, everybody come back to the United States to spend the remainder of the time in singing and dancing. Last March, the eighty-third anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society of the Church was celebrated with a banquet, with eighty-eight guests present.
Franklin Stake.
As a special incentive the Franklin stake Relief Society board offered a new Relief Society ward record book as a prize to the ward having the best attendance at the recent group convention. The prize will no doubt be greatly appreciated by the winning ward as it will cover four years record work in the ward.
Carbon Stake.
Winter Quarters ward, with a membership of twenty-two, has secured sixty-three subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine.
Australian Mission.
Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian Mission, writes that the Society in Sydney presented the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 89
pageant, "The Guardianship of Life" twice, and each time it was splendidly received and made a good impression upon the Saints and friends. There was a large audience at each presentation, and it is felt that much good was accomplished. Three other branches have the pageant under rehearsal.
Morgan Stake.
Morgan stake held a very successful teachers' convention on Sunday, October 25. The suggestive program sent out by the General Board was carried out. The subject matter was divided into three topics, which were treated by stake board members. The convention was very successful and there was a splendid attendance, including fifty officers and teachers.
Box Elder Stake.
During December the ward presidents and officers completed a canvass of the stake in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine for 1926. The stake board gave two prizes of two bound volumes of the Magazine, for 1925, one to the ward in Brigham City obtaining the largest subscription to the Magazine, according to the enrollment, and one to the ward outside the city which numbered the highest. The Second Ward of Brigham City took the prize for the city ward, with an enrollment of ninety-three and a subscription list of ninety. The Evans Ward will receive the prize for the outside ward, with an enrollment of fourteen and a subscription list of fifteen. The stake as a whole had six hundred subscribers up to December 1, for the 1926 Magazine, with more coming later. It has been found in this stake where the Magazine circulation is large that ward is up and alive in all phases of Relief Society work.
Following is a report of the Free Health Clinic in Brigham City, since its organization, and the activity in maternity work: clinics held, 37; children examined, 477; defects, 1053; follow-up visits, 74; operations, 61; tonsils and adenoids, 52; minor operations, 9; dental work, 59; normal children, 40. More than 75% of the children are underweight. This health work has been carried on at a cost of $404.06, with an estimated saving to the parents of $1,637.00. The money for the work has been obtained as follows: the stake asked for one-half of the interest on the wheat money from the wards in Brigham City, and one-fourth from the wards outside. Some parents have assisted in paying for operations; also some of the wards through ward funds; the Ladies' Civic Club, and the Kiwanians also assisted. The nurse, Mrs. Tingey, who is in charge of the maternity bundles reports activity since July 1923 as follows: 14 bundles on hand; used 181 times, 60 times without pay; 11 now in use; 3


spoken for; charge for use of bundle, $2.50; amount received for rental, $255.53; charge for sterilizing and supplies, $152.03; on hand, $103.50; amount paid nurse, $650. Other miscellaneous items are: summer vacations were provided for nine children and one woman, ranging in time from ten days to one month; all wards are preparing a complete set of Relief Society Magazines to be bound for their libraries; the ward secretaries are all working to get the ward histories up to date.
Northwestern States Mission.
The Kelso branch Relief Society is a very lively group. Weekly meetings are held in connection with the Priesthood. The regular Relief Society course of study is used and great interest is manifested in the lessons.
SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTES
Burley Stake.
A very successful course in Welfare Work was given the Relief Society workers of Burley stake, beginning November 9 and covering a period of two weeks. Class work was conducted the first week by Amy W. Evans of the General Board, and the second week by Annie D. Palmer of the Family Welfare office. Public lectures were given by Dr. Nielsen, of Oakley, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, of the Relief Society General Board, Mr. Wright, Probate Judge, and Miss Calley, of the State A. C. Extension Department. The daily sessions were attended by Relief Society stake and ward presidents and women chosen for special family welfare work. Interested visitors, included several bishops, a member of the county commission, representatives of the Women's Club, and the probate judge. There were also visiting members from Minidoka stake. Relief Society officers of Burley stake have long felt the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 91
need of special training in this particular field, and they were appreciative and very alert to the opportunity thus afforded them. Refreshments were served at the Saturday afternoon session. At the closing session, the women were unanimous in saying the lessons had been both interesting and profitable and that they hoped to do better welfare work in the future than they had known how to do in the past. President Margaret Cutler congratulated them on their regular attendance and interest in the class work which had been conducted under the supervision of her first counselor, Mrs. Wright.
Palmyra Stake.
A course in social service was held early in the year of 1925, beginning February 6 and continuing for a period of six weeks?two lessons of one hour each being given each week. To this institute were invited the bishops of wards, presidencies of Relief Societies, and ward social workers. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was in charge of the course and was assisted by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, and the Misses Cora Kasius, Lydia Alder and Genevieve Thornton. The course was most gratefully received and appreciated. One bishop who attended every session, said he had received the most helpful suggestions along charity lines that he had ever received and his viewpoint has been changed in many particulars.
The 17th of March was celebrated as a stake affair. Each ward contributed to the program with a one-act play, a pageant, or a musical number. A spirit of friendly rivalry prevailed and some very commendable features were presented. The stake board served light refreshments to the five hundred and fifty who were in attendance.
Early in the year a health program was launched. Before the actual work was undertaken, an educational program was given to get parents to realize the importance of the movement and to secure their cooperation. A public meeting was held at the City Pavilion in the afternoon, for children, at which a health play was given, where milk and vegetables were represented, by forty children, and the importance of these articles in the diet was stressed to about four hundred people. A public meeting was held in the evening for parents. The health play was repeated and a talk was given by Dr. Murphy on "The Under-nourished Child" and how to correct this condition. A lecture was then given to visiting teachers on "Milk in the Diet," by Miss Clark, of Domestic Art department of the local high school. Menus and recipes of milk dishes were given to each set of teachers and they in turn gave them out in the homes. The summer project was then organized for the raising of weight in the under-weight child. In this work there was cooperation with the school nurse and the


extension worker of the Agricultural College. One hundred and fifty children of school age were found to be more than 10% underweight?the danger mark. Two project workers were selected in each ward who took a day's training on how to score children for imperfections and note them. This training was given by Mrs. Christensen of the Agricultural College, who is a specialist in this work. Blanks for each child were furnished by the Agricultural College extension department, and children were checked up each month by local project workers.
North Davis Stake.
Following is the order of business used in the stake board meeting in North Davis stake:
1. Singing. (5 minutes.)
2. Prayer. (5 minutes.)
3. Roll call (including report of number of chapters read by board members, subject, Book of Mormon.) (5 minutes.)
4. Minutes.
5. Report of two Book of Mormon thoughts gathered during the month's reading, report by two board members. (5 minutes.)
6. Business: a. Reports of the visits to wards by board members. (30 minutes.) b. Two consecutive suggestions, by two board members. (5 minutes.) c. Board members appointments made and topics assigned to be used on visits. (10 minutes.)
7. Lesson Discussion: (45 minutes.) Theology. (15 minutes.) Literature. (15 minutes.) Social Service. (15 minutes.)
8. Appointment of ushers for Relief Society department of union meeting.
(Time of meeting, 2 hours.)
REFERENCES FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS
"First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketches of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "National Woman's Relief Society?History and Accomplishments," March Magazine, 1925, page 115.
Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in April)
CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION
A. Theological.
The Ten Commandments. (a) The First Commandment: "Thou shalt have no other God before me." This is a demand for sincerity, a whole-heartedness of devotion to God. A devotion that is born of implicit confidence, love unalloyed and unwavering loyalty.
(b) The Second Commandment: "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." This command was an edict against idolatry. There are evidences that the children of Israel during the four centuries of their sojourn in Egypt had become tainted with Paganism, and this injunction was particularly suited to their condition. This commandment proclaimed against having anything between God and those who worship him. Images interfere with spiritual contact.
(c) The Third Commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." This is an official call, a demand for reverence. It is a proclamation of the sinfulness of profaning the name of a spiritual Ideal. All such utterances are psychologically degrading as well as socially offensive. Profanity is nothing less than a fit of vocal intemperance.
(d) The Fourth Commandment: "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." This is a double commandment, it includes the "not-do" and the do and provides for six days of industry and one day of spiritual activity, with emphasis on the latter.
(e) The Fifth Commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother." In its completeness this part of the Decalogue contains a direct requirement with a promise. Disobedience to parents is prominent as a forerunner of banishment from the Land of Promise.


(f) The Sixth Commandment: "Thou shalt not kill." This commandment is doubly protective in its nature. It protects the right of all to live and it guards against the crime of all crimes, the unnecessary taking of life. It is a low state of individual or national existence that places a low valuation on human life. Careless killing is a close second to contemplated killing.
(g) The Seventh Commandment: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." "Next to destruction is depletion," a universal truth.
(h) The Eighth Commandment: "Thou shalt not steal." This mandate forbids the unlawful taking of anything, an act which advertises a poverty of character far worse than that of beggary. It is an injunction upon which rests the protection of all property rights. To take more than one's share of a group possession is a form of theft.
(i) The Ninth Commandment: "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." This commandment pronounces against perjury, slander, and pernicious gossip. Lying about other people has not unfittingly been called character cannibalism. No wonder the Lord forbids it.
(j) The Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." As the first commandment demands perfect sincerity, so the last one requires absolute honesty. It might well be said that one who desires or contemplates unlawful possession hath already committed theft in his heart.
The Decalogue is not only a great contribution to religion but also a great contribution to government.
B. Miscellaneous. (a) Returning good for evil. "If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again." (Exodus 23:4.)
(b) Returning help for hate. "If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldst forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him." (Exodus 23:5.)
(c) Love of neighbor. "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Leviticus 19:18.)
C. Literary. (a) The orations of Moses acknowledged to be equal to any of the orations of Demosthenes or Cicero. (Examples: Deut. 9 and 28.)