LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETINGS.

	THE Ladies' semi-monthly meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 16, 1892, was an in-
teresting occasion. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presided. Meeting opened with singing, "Lord
we come before thee now," prayer was offered
by Sister E. S. Taylor, continued by singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings" &c. Sister
Webb made some general remarks suitable to the
occasion, and requested the sisters to speak and
bear testimony. Sister M. Y. Dougal spoke of
the necessity of diligence and faithfulness and of
the judgments to be poured out in the last days
and that they would commence in Zion. Alluded
to the temptations around the pathway of the
young people at the present time.
	Sister Julia C. Howe followed and spoke of the
spirit of God manifest in the meeting, and of the
higher duties and responsibilities of this people.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke encouragingly to the
Scandinavian sisters and of their integrity to the
Gospel, also referred to the evils of the present
day and the calamities coming upon the earth.
	The sisters joined in singing, "There's a feast
of fat things" etc.
	Sisters Corbett and Brown each bore testimony.
Sister E. S. Taylor spoke a short time upon the
duties of the Saints and the individual work each
one had to do, urged the sisters to greater faith-
fulness. Sisters Snow, Smith and Forseith each
one bore testimony to the truth.
	Sister H. C. Young spoke of a prophecy in re-
gard to the Scandinavians and advised them to
teach their children their own language.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett, Sister Margaret State
and others each bore testimony and at the close
Sister Webb expressed her good and kindly feel-
ing and that the good spirit had been with us;
spoke of the work to be accomplished for the re-
demption of the dead. Adjourned with singing,
and prayer by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	On July 30, at the Ladies' semi-monthly meet-
ing, the President, M. I. Horne, presided.
Opened by singing "Where the voice of friend-
ship's heard," prayer by Sister H. C. Young,
singing "O, happy souls who pray." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. President
Home made an interesting speech upon the
prophecies and their fulfillment. Spoke feelingly
of the labor troubles and strikes throughout the
land and thought we should all watch and pray
without ceasing. Sister H. M. Whitney dwelt
upon spiritual things, and of her sorrow at the
condition of the world, desired to see the Temple
completed, and alluded to her anxiety for the
young.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke upon charity
and the healing of the sick, also concerning testi-
mony and many other things.
	Sister Parry of Cassia Stake bore a good testi-
mony, also Sister Cook, Sister Silver, Sister B.
W. Smith, Sister Brown, Sister Phelps, Sister
Stevenson and Sister Howard. President Horne
closed with some interesting remarks, and the
sisters sang "Our God we raise to Thee;" bene-
diction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

