IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XX.
	When the door closed after Rob Har-
rison Esquire the "literary light" and his
friend Everhard, Anna, drawing a long
breath as a sigh of relief, said to her cousin,
"here is another obstacle in my pathway,
just when the coast seemed clear, and I felt
myself independent, this relative my
mother's cousin comes forward as a pro-
tector; pray, how many do I need?"
	"And so Anna you are not pleased with
your mother's cousin, [she did not repeat
to her that he had been her mother's lover;]
one would think a relative on that side would
have been most welcome."
	"Jane,  cousin mine, he assumes too
much; he comes patronizing me first of all,
before he knows anything of me."
	"No doubt Anna, Burke and Hemenway
have told him what a child you are in mat-
ters of importance beyond music, dancing,
dress and manner. But, soberly, is he not
very handsome?"
	"Yes, well, passably so, but strange in-
deed that you should notice that, you who
never could see anything to admire in men,
not even in the good old Doctor, who loves
you so devotedly. I am astonished; there
must be something extraordinary in Rob
Harrison when you can admire him."
	"O, I don’t know as to that—he has a
fine face and wonderful eyes, very much
like your own, and yours are like your
mother's I suppose. By the way, is it not
strange there is no painting of your mother
in the hall at the Castle? Did it ever occur
to you?"
	"Never, I scarce ever heard her name
mentioned, old Mrs. Hess our former head
housekeeper spoke of her sometimes, but
Mrs. Burke was not installed in the house-
hold in her day, and she always protested
against every thing Hess said or did."
	"Cousin Anna, you did not invite Mr.
Harrison to call again or to come to the
Castle when we return; it was a discourtesy
on our part, or on yours, for neither of the
gentlemen seemed to have eyes for me."
	"How could I think of anything with
him staring at me, in that dreadful way;
but I suppose he'll come again, to see if I
need his advice, or protection forsooth."
	"Don't Anna, you may need both, none
of us know what lies in store, and the
friendship of a truly good man is rare and
that Mr. Harrison is an exceptionally good
man I feel tolerably sure."
	"Wait cousin, until you hear the Doctor's
opinion, or have you had an intuition? If so
I have no more to say; you are invariably
right in your presentiments."
	The girls talked on and on of the strange
visit until joined by Clair and others, and
for the time the subject was waived, but
not forgotten, and it was not likely to be
either, for his destiny and theirs were linked
and interwoven, and the forebodings of
Jane Conway were not without foundation.
	The days that followed were like others
at that season of gaiety except for the
visits of Mr. Harrison, who came often
enough to learn the status of affairs. He
also heard from the outside how things
were moving in reference to Clair and the
title, though he kept these matters to him-
self except as he gave fatherly advice to the
young man, who took kindly his sug-
gestions, and profited by them. Ere long
it was apparent to Anna, who was becoming
more and more versed in affairs of the heart,
that her cousin or uncle, as she had de-

