[column 2]
to hold out to the end and get the blessings
that are in store for the faithful. Myself
and Counselors have visited the northern
branches of the Society and have organized
one new Society at Summit Basin; where
ever we go we find a few faithful souls and
they are the ones that will receive the
choicest blessings.
	Pres. Zina D. Young spoke of the
necessity of the young sisters attendingthe
Society; referred to our sons and daughters
marrying out of the Church, many of them
have seen the error of their ways. Let us
all have a spirit of forgiveness and
kindness to all; said that our little duties
should be attended to.
	Bishop Barton: It is the very busiest time
of the year with us, if it was a few weeks
earlier or later more could attend. When
we speak it is not the many words we use
but the sincerity of our hearts; spoke about
using our influence for good, there never
was more need of faith and perseverence
than now, when we neglect our duties dark-
ness takes possession of our minds. Paul
could see the present day, he said the people
would be more lovers of pleasure than God-
liness. I trust that we may always feel the
spirit of humility and never forget to show
our gratitude to God. I feel, Sisters, to ap-
preciate your labors; let us all be true to
God and ourselves.
	Pres. Muir represented West Bountiful as
doing well and all seemed to want to do
their duty.
	Pres. S. B. Layton made some very in-
teresting remarks; said she desired to live in
the fear of the Lord all her days; was thank-
ful for having had a knowledge of this
work when young, also that her lot had
been just as it had. She then spoke in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Clark, Sister Zina bore testimony to the
truth and correctness of the interpretation.
	Counselor Hatch represented South
Bountiful.
	Meeting was then adjourned until after-
noon; singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of Salvation.” Benediction by Bishop
Barton.
	Afternoon Services: After the usual
opening exercises Sister Lula Greene Rich-
ards addressed the sisters. “How beautifully
our Father in heaven has organized this
Society; the branches are all linked together;
if we neglect any one thing the Lord has
given us to learn, it will show itself some-
where;” spoke very earnestly about prayer,
said that we should have it in our hearts all
the time; if we make sacrifices to do good
we will not lose any thing by it; we should
try to reform our children and ourselves.
"I think it is a great privilege to be here
with Sister Zina and I ask the Lord to bless
us all.”
	Sister Aurelia Rogers made a few remarks:
“I feel that I dare not shrink from my duty.”
Spoke about children, said we should teach
them good principles. “I love to come to
these meetings and have my spiritual
strength renewed.”
	Sister Zina spoke upon traditions and
obedience, said if we wanted obedient
children in the Church they should be taught
obedience home. Spoke of prayer and of
ordinances for the sick and referred to
clothing the dead for burial; spoke of the
duties of the teachers and secretaries and
many other important matters.
	Sister Lizzie Smith spoke of the interest
she felt in spiritual things and thought our
time should be more spent in learning
spiritual things and less in temporal,etc.


Coun. Jane Holt was deeply interested in
this latter-day work especially in the young
people and in the primary Associations,
spoke upon prayer and several other
subjects.
	Pres. Grant said we have heard many
good things and been truly edified and blest.
Singing "How beauteous are their feet who
stand on Zion's hill." Benediction by
Brother Smith. Conference adjourned
for three months to be held at East Bounti-
ful. 
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


