[Column 2]

a passing notice, would require more time
and ability than I have at my command.
	On the 7th day of April 1847 the pioneer
company left the Missouri river and com-
menced their journey toward the setting
sun. It consisted of 148 souls—143 strong,
brave men, three equally brave and courag-
eous women, and two children.
	History tells us somewhat of those noble,
self-sacrificing women, how their untiring
efforts and cheerful influence were brought
to bear upon the hearts of those earnest
toilers in their weary march; and in every
line of their record we find inspiration to
boble deeds and higher thoughts.
	When preparing for the perilous journey
to the unknown west, and the hearts of 
Israel were o'ershadowed with anxiety for
the friends with whom they were about to
part, for how long they knew not, the
shadows of gloom were all dispelled by the
inspiration of song, and in one grand chorus
the hosts of Israel sang:

	"The time of winter now is o'er,
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our sheltering roofs once more
		And to our tents again.
	Oh! camp of Israel onward move,
		O! Jacob rise and sing;
	Ye saints the world's salvation prove;
		All hail to Zion's King."

	And brightness took the place of gloom,
hope banished despair, faith removed and
took the place of doubt, and under the
music of that pioneer song, the march was
taken up, the camp-fire was made more
cheerful, the stout hearts of brave men made
more hopeful and courageous, and those in-
spired words and that music were given to
Israel by a woman.
	And when the fleeing hosts took up the
journey to follow their leader into the
wilderness, that song of a woman brought
cheer and sunshine to the exhausted souls,
after their weary day of travel. Through
all the terrible vicissitudes of that memor-
able journey, and the innumerable trials of
those who came hither subsequently, wo-
man's noble work and elevating and refin-
ing influence were seen and felt in a thou-
sand different ways. We see her when de-
voting her attention to the helpless and in
many instances half-starved children; anon
giving succor to the unfortunate sick, and
again by her encouraging words and un-
swerving faith, banishing from her hus-
band's, brothers' or sons' heart every
shadow of discouragement and planting
there the grandest purposes and noblest
ambitions, perchance mounting her steed
and driving stock upon the trail, or manag-
ing her ox or horse team, as the situation at
the moment demanded, suiting herself to
every circumstance, and cheerfully meeting
every emergency, and with a faith peculiarly
her own, seeing the hand of God in every
condition she was called upon to meet.
	When the valley—the resting place and
future home—was finally reached, we see her
hand in hand with her husband and father,
toiling along unmurmuringly at every
legitimate occupation presenting itself to
her, whereby she could assist in earning the
common necessaries of life, and make a
home for family, and render assistance to
friends.
	And when the great tide of emigration
commenced across the continent to the
"Land of Gold" and the exhausted pilgrims
arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, the created
oasis in the desert, sick in body and at
heart, the ministrations of the tender hands
of those pioneer women have nursed many

[Column 3]

and many a dying soul back to life and ulti-
mate prosperity; and how cheerfully were all
labors of love and charity performed by
them! I have the distinguished honor of
knowing from personal experience and ob-
servation, the truth of what I say. In the
opening up and settling of new countries his-
tory presents no parallel to that of pioneer
Utah. Never in human experience has such a
band of grand pioneer men been surrounded
by such noble, high-minded, pure, and
earnest women. In the organization of the
social fabric of our great commonwealth,
woman has ever been the principal factor,
and her gentle refining influence has borne
its divine fruit, in the rearing throughout
these Rocky Mountain valleys the most in-
telligent, refined, prayerful, virtuous and
progressive posterity that the pioneers of
any country were ever blessed with.
	It is universally conceded that Utah has
the greatest amount of musical ability of
any country on earth in proportion to its
population, and I ask you if that fact is not
one of the direct results of virtuous, pure-
minded Christian mothers? It is said "by
their fruits ye shall know them," and I
stand here today and proudly invite your
attention to the fruits of the social system
that those pioneer women assisted in estab-
lishing, and with religious devotion have
maintained, and challenge the intelligent
world to say they are not good.
	We have but to look into the faces of
those bright, sweet little darlings around us
here today—listen to their angelic music,
follow them to their comfortable and happy
homes; note their advanced condition in all
educational matters, and bow to the fruits
of pioneer principle and effort.
	In the commercial history of our common-
wealth woman is no less prominent than in
the social. For many many years in the early
history of Utah, there was but little clothing
worn that did not pass through the hand of
woman—first to the hand card, thence to the
hand spinning-wheel; thence to the hand
loom, and from there to the wife tailor, to
the household knitter, and the female hatter.
All that the cunning and device of human
hands could perform under the circumstances
those women zealously seized the oppor-
tunity to do and with brain and hand
labored to save and maintain the credit of
their husbands and fathers, both at home
and abroad, and formerly there was no
country on earth whose credit was superior
to that of Utah.
	As to the female literary ability among us
but little need be said. It is too well known
to require comment from me today. It is
unnecessary for me to bring before you the
brilliant array of female literary talent, so
well known to the educated world, but suf-
fice it to say, that according to advantages
and population we have no peer in this or
any other country either in prose or song.
	And do you ask me about our political
record? If you do, let me briefly answer
you. From time immemorial we have
carried in the front, held up to the eyes of
all the world the banner we proudly wave
today, "Not Superiority, but Equality."
Memorial after memorial have we modestly
but earnestly forwarded to the legislative
authority of our great country asking that
our principle be recognized; we have never
wavered from our purpose, and with the
help of God we never will until we are in
the full possession of that which we know
we have earned, for ourselves and our
daughters and our daughters' daughters,—
the recognition of "Political Equality."


——————————————————
	We believe that woman has given to the
politics of our land that which is purest and
best in them. We believe that when she 
receives the recognition of political equality
she can and will eliminate from politics
many of its evil and most damning influ-
ences of today; we believe that when given
the opportunity she will do as much for our
political system as she has done for our
social, commercial, and literary systems.
	We can point proudly to the brief period
when we enjoyed the well earned privilege
of franchise in our Territory and truthfully
say to the world that there was no citizen
elected to office by our votes that proved
unworthy of the public trust reposed in
him. We are proud of the fact, that while
we were exercising our franchise, there
were no disgraceful disturbances at the polls
and that there was less blasphemy than 
there was before, or has been since. 
	And when the elective franchise was ruth-
lessly taken from us, under our most solemn
protest, it was done by just such corrupt
means and measures as women will cast out of
politics when the time shall arrive that they
are empowered to accomplish that much de-
sired end.
	And in conclusion permit me to say that
we realize and fully appreciate the facts that
we are—
	Equally taxpayers with the men;
	Equally amenable to the laws of the land,
	Equally interested in seeing the laws
properly administered and vindicated;
	Equally earnest in every material ad-
vancement of our commonwealth.
	And as pioneer mothers of the Great West
we feel that that which is our right is being
withheld from us, but we have faith that
our strong progressive sons will stand nobly
by our banner until their mothers, wives,
sisters and daughters will receive their
proper recognition—"Political Equality"
not superiority.
		—————————


