[column 2]
while others are called to witness some relic
snatched from the bosom of the rolling bil-
lows, informing the anxious beholder that a
cherished object sleeps beneath them, we
should perhaps gain some idea of the feel-
ing wrought by the word, Farewell. Here
stand the parent, the child, the husband
and wife, brother and sister, friend and
companion—about to experience the sorrow
of separation.  The proud vessel is ready to
take from the parental embrace, the polar
star towards which true affection has ever
been directed.  Sympathy and love swell
the bosom with anguish; tears, sad tears,
 are falling from the eye—but Farewell,
Farewell is spoken, and the scene of parting
is known and felt in all its intensity.  Hear
the thrilling words, “God bless you—Fare-
well, Farewell.” How often does the
breeze that comes from England’s shores
and America’s coasts, inform us of the
broken affection which the one yet simple
word has caused, and the many hearts it has
crushed!
	Go to the bedside of the fond mother
whom death, the visitor of mortality,is soon
to take from earth; bitter tears are flowing,
telling plainly the anguish of their hearts.
But the summons has come and the dear
one must go.  Oh! how heart-rending—
how touching her last words.  Husband,
children, dear ones all—Farewell! What
heart so hard, so devoid of sympathy as not
to be touched by a scene like this, and how
often have we witnessed them?  How often
has the word, Farewell,fellen upon our ears
more solemn than the funeral knell!
	Today we meet our friends, embrace them
in the arms of brotherly love—rehearse the
events of by-gone days, when the rays of
love encircled the brow, and the heart found
a residence and a home.  We recall fresh to
the memory our days of childhood around
which linger a halo of joy and innocence
never to be forgotten; but tomorrow we bid
them Farewell.  Not only do our friends bid
usadieu, but all nature animate and inanimate
is constantly bidding us Farewell; change
and decay are busy.  Time is carrying us
forward to our eternal home—yes,—“Home,
sweet home.”

	“No cloud those regions know,
	Forever bright and fair;
	For sin the source of mortal woe,
	Can never enter there.”

	How joyful the thought that such a home
is ours! Forever shall we surround the
throne of celestial glory, to join in the song
of redeeming love with the ransomed Uni-
verse of the Almighty God; never, never
more to speak the sorrowful, solemn word,
Farewell.
						L. M. H.


In old age one sees farther and clearer
than younger people do.  It is like living
on a hilltop, from whence the ups and
downs of life appear in their just propor-
tions, and every way one looks one beholds,
as it were, “the crooked made straight, and
the rough places plain.”—Miss Mulock.


