MRS. PARKER AND MISS HEFRON.

	ON Wednesday we had a very interesting call
from Mrs. Parker, of Chicago, and Miss Hefron,
of Utica, N. Y., two ladies who have been at Provo
assisting Col. Parker in the summer school
lectures there for teachers. The Colonel returned
home several days before his wife and Miss
Hefron. We were very much disappointed that
Mrs. Parker could not give her lecture upon
Dress Reform here in the Tabernacle, but she
assured us that it would be a pleasure for her to
come again, and as she had an engagement in
Kansas for October she will likely come as far as
Salt Lake; at least so she thinks now, unless
something unforeseen prevents her.
	Mrs. Parker has been quite strongly impressed,
since coming here, with many of the things which
have come under her observation, or been
brought to her notice. She talked freely with the
writer, asking questions about the early pioneer
life, and the conditions affecting women and
children under the law; and she has taken home
with her many books treating upon the doctrines
and principles of the Church, its history and
special matters of importance.
	People like Colonel Parker and his wife, Presi-
dent Elliot and wife, and others of intelligence
and liberal views who come here without
prejudice and stay long enough to see for them-
selves, cannot fail but do good by the impressions
they will make concerning the position here, and
by and by this people and their work in build-
ing up this Territory will be better understood
than it is at present.
	We were specially interested in Mrs. Parker
because of her being one of the Committee on
Dress Reform appointed by the National Council,
and also, as we found on meeting her, that she had
a very fine, well-modulated voice and most win-
ning address, she would make a profound im-
pression upon her audience wherever she might
speak. All these things tell well for woman's
cause, and help to uplift it.
	There is no doubt but Col. and Mrs. Parker
have done a good work among the teachers here
in this Territory and broadened their ideas and
methods, as contact with others always does
naturally.
	We are very glad to be interviewed by such
people as Mrs. Parker, and Miss Hefron, and
Miss Balgarnie, and Capt. Thomson of the Royal
Army of England, with whom we had a most in-
teresting conversation on Mormonism when, on
his way from San Francisco to New York, he
passed through Salt Lake City. In fact, this city
has come to be a great center of attraction for
tourists, romantically situated as it is midway
between the Missouri river and the Pacific Coast,
and with its peculiar history of a peculiar people.
The Temples built in various places are singular
attractions and significant of this people and
their religion.


