CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.

	The Chautauqua Assembly has grown to be a
national affair so to speak. In nearly every state
and territory a circle or club has been organized
and is in working order, and yet many people do
not understand its object or scope. It seems to
the writer that it is one of the most generally
educational institutions of the day. We give be-
low some brief minutes of an Assembly held at
the head quarters in Chautauqua, N. Y., taken
from The Mail and Express of New York City,
which may give some idea of the definite work of
this institution, and since we know there is a
circle or assembly here in Utah, it is of some local
interest to become more familiar with its plans
and methods. The communication is dated
August 12th:
	Dr. Doremus gave his last scientific lecture
Wednesday night, the subject being "The Order
of Life on This Planet." A large chart was
suspended above the stage, showing the strata of
the earth. The lecturer gave a lot of experiments
on the chemistry of the air.
	"The Public School" was the topic of Emily
Huntington Miller's paper before the Girls' Club
yesterday, and it was an able discussion of the
foes of our school system and the relation of
parent and teacher in the care of the child.
	Bishop J. M. Hoburn, in a lecture on India,
gave the results of thirty years' observation as a
missionary in that land. He laid especial em-
phasis upon the woeful relaxation in the caste
system, which is fast passing away.
	The Boys' Congress held its final session
yesterday, and the exercises were attended by a
great number of visitors. The cabinet made
speeches before the congress recommending re-
forms in their department, and the congress dis-
cussed a bill for the establishment of a civil
academy and to make Anarchists cease seditious
utterances or leave the country.
	Wednesday was Denominational day, and
twelve churches held meetings in the afternoon at
various points on the ground. The usual Bible
conference was held at 2 o'clock, under the direc-
tion of Dr. Jesse L. Hurlburt. The C. L. S. C.
class of '91 held a social meeting at 5 o'clock in
the afternoon. A musical tea was given by the
Girls' Club in the college building. Nearly three
hundred members of the club and their guests
were present.
	The ten classes, from '86 to 96, which are rep-
resented in the new Union Class building, met in
the Hall of Philosophy and marched to their new
quarters and took formal possession. The build-
ing is of wood, three stories in height, and cost
$10,000.
	The Chautauqua Political Economy Club,
under the direction of Prof. Richard T. Ely, held
its first regular meeting Wednesday and dis-
cussed the question, "Has Political Economy an
Ethical Basis?" Miss Slocum was the leader.
	President J. G. Schurman, of Cornell Uni-
versity, delivered a lecture in the Hall of
Philosophy at 5 o'clock on the topic, "Free Will
versus Automatism."


