[Column 2]

﻿readers in our own way something of him and
his ideas, which seem new ones to the uninitiated
in the art of expression which he enunciates
emphatically by means of his own personality
when you come face to face with him. He must
be seen and heard if one would realize what
his work, and the art he represents, has de-
veloped in him. He gives you in a few minutes'
conversation, in word painting, many wonderful
suggestions and makes you feel them to be real
stepping stones upward and onward.
	If he had been common-place and uninterest-
ing, coming as he did with a letter of introduction
from Mrs. May Wright Sewall, whose friendship
is so dear to the writer, and who is one of the
brightest and most deservedly popular women of
the country, and is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, we
should most certainly have been glad to show
him some courtesy or favor; but when we found
him such a perfect conversationalist, and so de-
sirous to hear of our country, and our homes, our
only regret was that our time was limited, and
that we should not be able to hear him in some
large parlor or building in this city, though we
most sincerely hope he will remain and speak
here.
	To be sure we had heard of his celebrity and
his aesthetic success, or successes, but never
dreamed his work anything so real and yet
ideal.
	The underlying facts are, or seem to be, to
make the most and the best of actual life, or to
get the best results from all one does, and to do
everything with that intention.
	Mr. Russell does not approve of the modern
method of education, because of its abnormal
tendency to the development of the mental
faculties at the expense of the physical.
	It is said Delsarte "studied man's nature from
a physical as well as mental standpoint, believing
that the mental, the moral and the physical
should be educated at the same time, and each in
perfect harmony with the other."
	We as a people should go a little farther and
say the spiritual nature also. Perfect harmony of
all attributes, of all work, is the perfection of
skill in any direction, or in any science, or in any
matter. That is the established fact, but how to
produce that harmony is the problem.
	If men and women knew how to produce har-
mony in this life, they would have discovered the
royal highway to happiness. Unfortunately
though they may have made some little progress
in some certain directions, the progress is very
slow towards perfection but that is the object a
few are aiming to attain, a perfect life. Truths
are eternal even if we do not receive them, or put
them to use.
	Mr. Russell considers the use of tea and
tobacco bad practices, he also thinks wearing
corsets is bad, compressing the vital parts of the
human body; he says too, that men seldom
breathe right, women never. His lessons are
something like the kindergarten system, illus-
trated by "object lessons," and are said to be
very pleasant affairs, of which we cannot have
the least doubt, after having had several talks
with him, although all in one day.
	Perhaps the best thing to tell the readers of the
EXPONENT would be that there is much of his
teaching that we already know as a people, but
we do not put it in practice as we should.
Brigham Young taught this people how to live
morally and spiritually and temporally, and if
they had observed the hints he gave and the
truths he set forth in the sermons he preached
from time to time, the progress and development
in many directions among this people would have
been much greater.
	New developments in art, in science, and in
philosophy are being obtained and are for the
benefit of all; there will be still greater dis-


coveries made doubtless in many directions, and
by and bye those who live for it will attain to a
higher standard of perfection physically, morally,
mentally and spiritually, and it is something de-
voutly to be hoped for. As Hamlet said: "There
are more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamed of in our philosophy.


