THE INDUSTRIAL PROBLEM.

	WHEN one comes directly upon the scene of a
recent strike, it becomes a positive necessity to
enter into the subject more or less; one can
scarcely be neutral in opinion if one may in ex-
pression. Being specially interested in the sub-
ject on general principles, and as one of the im-
portant questions of the day, and having relatives
in the immediate vicinity of one of the terrible
strikes (the one in Northern Idaho) it has been a
study with the writer for the past few weeks, and
reading what is said from time to time in the
papers, one can scarcely help forming an opinion
of some sort in the premises. But here we are
right on the spot where the thickest of the trouble
occurred, and having it from the people them-
selves who are most deeply concerned and have
suffered from the consequences. Perhaps after
some days' sojourn we may be able out of all we
see and hear to get a clear understanding and to
write something for the readers of the EXPONENT.
	The soldiers are here and the prisoners too (or
were), though some are to be tried to-day or are
taken over for trial in Coeur d' Alene City where
the lawyers and judges have already collected to
hold court.
	The citizens of Wallace and vicinity have some
sense of security since the arrival of the troops,
previous to that there was none for either life or
property. No one knew, however innocent of
offence in thought, word, or deed he might be, at
what moment he would be shot, or ordered to
leave the town. The inhabitants were terror-
stricken; men with families, ordered to go, were
left without the least choice and women and
children were at the mercy of the strikers. Some
men did not go and the troops barely arrived in
time to protect them.
	We have not space in this issue for any ex-
tended notice of the situation, but in our next
ssue will have a paper giving some of the real
facts and incidents, meantime we give an extract
from the London Times we culled en route.
	"The labor troubles in the United States have
taken a form not to be distinguished from civil
war. We cannot yet venture to think the danger
is ended. It is small wonder that the course of
affairs is watched with alarm by those in whose
memory the events of 1877 are still fresh."
	Another quotation from the Chronicle of
London, August 20, says:
	"The American people had the most splendid
inheritance ever conferred on a nation, and they
have grossly misused it. Hordes of vulgar office-
seekers have been permitted to fatten on the pub-
lic body; great cities are given over to men who
ought to be in prison; and millions on millions of
acres of public lands are given with a light heart
to railway corporations, which now threaten to
strangle the republic in their octopus-like grasp.
This is really practical anarchism, which ruins


states, compared with which the anarchism of a
handful of desperate families is almost innocuous.
That is the general moral of a labor war, but
there are special questions relating to railway
and convict labor. It is simply monstrous that
capitalists are allowed to use convict labor, so
monstrous that no self-respecting community
could possibly tolerate it."
	WALLACE, IDAHO, August 23, 1892.


