[Column 2]

currence. The advertisement that appears
this time is that of the educated young man
seeking the companionship of the refined
young lady. It is surprising how many
young ladies of good family there are who
answer these advertisements, "just for fun,"
and who have their letters addressed to one
of the numerous private postoffices in drug
stores, etc. But, like the ostrich which
hides its head in the sand when pursued,
they soon learn to their cost that they are
no match for the hunters. After carrying
on their amusing correspondence for awhile
with their unknown advertiser, they tire of
it, and endeavor to put a stop to it. Im-
mediately they begin to receive letters in
their own name and addressed to their own
homes, threatening to publish the letters
they wrote in jest unless a certain amount
of cash is forthcoming. The wily black-
mailers play a sharp game, and easily ascer-
tain the identity of their fair correspondents
from the very beginning of the affair.
	If the aid of a good lawyer is secured the
treacherous letters may be usually bought
back at from twenty-five to fifty dollars, but
when the young woman is afraid to confess
the matter to her parents, and has property
of her own, the swindlers often receive large
sums in this manner.
	But the devil does not confine his atten-
tion to the advertising columns of the news-
papers. He knows too well the value of
printer's ink to overlook the possibilities of
the reading matter, and the fact that his ads.
are inserted free of charge is not calculated
to deter him from pushing work in this di-
rection. I refer now more particularly to
the column upon column of space which
the newspapers devote to creating and ex-
tending the notoriety of criminals. There
cannot be the shadow of a doubt that these
newspaper accounts do more to stimulate
crime than almost any other one cause.
Not only does it act by appealing to the love
of notoriety of those who are already crimi-
nals, and so encourage them on to worse
and worse deeds, but it appeals to those who
are too ignorant to attempt crime by them-
selves, but who, on reading of the doings
of others in the papers, find here examples
ready set for them, and which they can
easily follow. Moreover, constant contact
with vice blunts the moral feelings, and
constant reading of the acts of criminals is
apt to have the same effect, and to so
familiarize the minds of the people with
crime that it loses its first repulsiveness.
We must not forget that one of the great-
est safeguards against crime is the instinc-
tive feeling of disgust which it inspires, a
disgust which arises from education amid
fine surroundings, and that without this
first feeling many crimes would have been
committed which are now unrecorded.
	A step in the right direction would be
for the reputable newspapers to abolish the
personal column. As to the sensational
reading matter, it would probably be out of
the question to do away with this, as the
public demand for this kind of news is so
great that the publisher who refused to
print it would soon find himself without sub-
scribers. But there is one step which the
best papers could and should take. It is
the suppression of the name of the criminal
in the accounts of his crime. The individu-
al man being thus merged into one general.
class, with no distinction whatever, the
notoriety would be greatly diminished, and
would be less of an incentive to crime than
it is at present. In other words, crime
would be shorn of its glory, or at least of a

[Column 3]

great part of it, and this would be a good
and valuable work accomplished.


