[Column 2]

cided to designate him by his particular re-
quest, was deeply in love with her feminine
cousin Jane. She had not dared to mention
it, though she had been strongly tempted
to tell her strong-minded cousin, that it was
dangerous to receive Mr. Harrison's at-
tentions, etc; but how could she speak to
her of it, knowing of her engagement and
also how reluctant she had ever been to ac-
knowledge that even Dr. Bland was in love
with her. And so she passed it by, but
gossips would not, and soon Lady Walton,
hearing it talked of, sounded Lady Anna
who confessed to her Ladyship that she had
become convinced of the fact.
	"And what is this very dignified, con-
scientious young woman going to do with
two lovers at once?" remarked Lady Wal-
ton with some asperity, for she had not
forgotten that Miss Conway knew of her
interview with Sir Edward and it had often
nettled her when she came in contact with
her.
	"I have not the slightest idea, but know-
ing her uprightness in all matters, I am
sure she will do exactly right."
	Lady Walton was nonplussed and drop-
ped the subject for the time, but she watch-
ed Miss Conway jealously, but closely as
she scrutinized her conduct, she could find
nothing to condemn.
	At last the gay season drew toward its
close and the young ladies felt it was time
to return to their country home. Matters
had been pretty well adjusted in the mean
time and Clairville Hilliard was likely to
get the benefit of the title unless something
unknown came in the way. Dr. Bland was
growing very impatient of the long delay,
for such it seemed to him, though he
busied himself making all the final prepar-
ations in his home, and in attending to
every duty in detail pertaining to the estate
of Sir Edward, and the poor and sick all the
country round.
	Finally the season really closed, that is,
Lady Walton gave an eleborate ball as she
knew it was expected by her set, and Mait-
land's fiancee was the belle of the ball, and
so his mother had intended it should be
from the first. She wore her favorite color,
sea-green, and pearls were her only orna-
ment in the way of jewelry though her
dress was nearly covered with the most ex-
quisite lace; she was like a sea-nymph; her
wonderful golden hair was arranged so as
to display its magnificence and ornamented
with pearls in the most perfect taste; when
she danced it was as though she flew fairy-
footed or glided in air; she was so unlike
other young ladies that she could not fail to
be attractive wherever she went; there was
a naivete, a freshness too about her that was
delightfully charming. Uncle Rob as he
watched her in the great hall gliding about
was as one enchanted, it carried him back
to the time when his cousin had made his
heart beat rapturously, and he walked out
into the fresh air to regain his bewildered
senses; some one else was in the same or a
similar mood, for he saw a few steps away
from him a woman pacing up and down as
though in deep thought. She was dressed
in pure white, a mantle trimmed with swan's
down thrown loosely over her head almost
concealed her face, but he recognized Jane
Conway, and wondered why she should
wish to withdraw from the gay crowd. She
caught sight of him almost at the same
moment and it was impossible to avoid
speaking. Both felt it, a sort of unwelcome
encounter, they were anxious to avoid each
other, yet fate would have it so. Mr. Har-

[Column 3]

rison seeing the dilemma made bold to ask
why she was out in the night air, was she
not fearful of taking cold in such a light
costume? She replied freezingly, and he
urged her to avoid the damp or she would
scarcely be equal to the journey contempla-
ted so soon. And he added,as if by way of
drawing her into conversation, "would you
mind telling me how you like the country
residence of your late uncle, and what there
is of interest in the neighborhood?"
	"O, as to that you can come and see for
yourself, there is a fine park and plenty of
game in the hunting season, and I've no
doubt that would suit you as it does most
Englishmen."
	"I was wondering if you would think it
worth your while to invite me for any season,
the hunting season is a long way off, I
might be far enough away before that time
comes."
	Jane scarce knew what reply to make
but added, "No doubt my cousins will wish
you to come soon, they will be lonely after
the gaieties of London, there is no society
there, that is it is a long way to the nearest
neighbor's and in fact we never have visited.
My uncle did not mingle with the people in
that vicinity, and consequently we do not
know them."
	"Then when you return do you expect to
live in retirement after such a round of
pleasure as your cousins have kept up the
last few months?"
	"I scarcely know; there will be some
changes in the house I presume, it will be
positively necessary if Clair succeeds to the
title, you must know better than I do, I've
never known much of such matters, my life
was very quiet until I came to stay at my
uncle's and since then so much has happened
that I wonder how I have kept my senses."
	"This is most interesting, pray enlighten
me. I am totally uninformed of matters in
English country life anywhere, though
when a boy (and that was long ago) I knew
Devonshire pretty well, a charming pastoral
country. But really we must not linger here,
not only the damp air, but Anna might be
looking for you—are you not her chaperone
tonight?" And, lowering his voice: "I wish
you were mine instead, I have more need of
one, unused as I am to society." Miss Con-
way affected not to hear him and hurried to-
wards the house, but met Clair in the hall-
way as they were about to ascend the stair-
case, who boy-like, unthinkingly, when he
saw the two coming in together mischievous-
ly exclaimed aloud, "what would the Doc-
tor say?"
	It was too bad to spoil this pleasant lit-
tle interview by stern facts. Clair was inno-
cent enough about it though Rob Harrison
had not heard of the Doctor except as Miss
Hilliard had spoken of him, and had not
once suspected he was more than the guard-
ian of his cousin, but his suspicions were
aroused now, not that he had fallen in love
seriously—how could he, a confirmed old
bachelor! He had solemnly vowed to remain
single and yet he wanted society, woman's
companionship; he had been a mother's boy,
all she had, and they had been all in all to
each other; she had stood by him when his
heart had been torn as it were by his cousin's
precipitous miserable marriage; they went
away together afterwards, and his mother
died abroad, he had wandered here and
there seeking fame—or solace, and now had
become more or less interested in these un-
protected young people for whom he felt
a sort of fatherly care; he was inclined to be
forgiving in his nature, and now that Sir


Edward was dead he cherished no ill-will
but lavished affection freely upon the daugh-
ter, remembering too she was the nearest
relative he had. He had guessed something
of her life through the association of the
past few weeks, and realized what an ad-
vantage, a blessing in fact, it was to have a
young woman like Miss Conway to watch
over her; and at times he felt as if he
would not leave England again until he
saw her fairly settled, happily married.
He was not sure that he approved of Mait
land Walton, and he certainly disapproved
of Lady Walton’s influence, and it partly
reconciled him to their going away, know-
ing Anna would be less in her society.
	Since Clair’s playful reference to the
Doctor, he had serious thoughts, whether
there could have been any meaning in his
words, but he would not inquire lest his
meaning should be misconstrued, for he nev-
er even imagined himself in love, and as for
Jane, he knew she was not, and fancied it
would be a difficult matter for her to fall in
love with an ordinary man—and to him all
men were more or less ordinary, for he had
seen the world and mingled much with man-
kind. Really he knew very little of women,
and therefore judged Miss Conway imper-
vious to the grand passion.
	All the winter long Miss Conway had
been doing dainty work, such as ladies take
delight in previous to entering upon the
new relations of married life, but after Mr.
Harrison’s frequent visits the work lagged
and was put aside. She had never seen a
man with such a conversational power or
such a wonderful fund of information. He
had traveled extensively and never tired of
talking of countries and people, all new to
his attentive listeners. The final leave-tak-
ing came at last and Rob Harrison had to
say good-bye to his new-found friends. He
kissed Anna as of course he had a right to
do; but how should he say good-bye to her
cousin! He considered it and determined to
be brave, he would at least kiss her hand,
but he did not get opportunity, for the party
were ready at a veiy early hour in the morn-
ing and were all wrapped in furs and gloved.
He embraced Anna tenderly, kissed her on
both cheeks and turning to her cousin said
a simple good-bye, though he longed to say
a great deal more. Clair urged him to
come as soon as they were fairly settled and
show him what would be needed to make
the place habitable for,said he, “the old place
is only a tumbled down ruin now, and not
fit to invite respectable people to visit, though
the surroundings are magnificent.”
	Mr. Harrison was in hopes the ladies
would add their entreaties to Clair’s but Miss
Conway was absolutely silent on the subject,
and Anna only faintly echoed Clair’s last
words “we shall expect you.” The coach
drove away, and walking slowly toward
his hotel Rob Harrison reasoned with him-
self, and wondered why he should care
about this plain young woman that seemed
to pass unnoticed by all for he had not heard
from any one of the many gentlemen who
had spoken so often of his cousin Lady
Anna, one single word of Miss Conway.
And yet he knew she was a very superior
person. He felt it very strongly and
wondered other men were not also aware of
her superiority.


