	THE SHEPHERD.

“His head was silvered o’er with age
And long experience made him sage
Through summer’s heat and winter’s cold
He penned his flock and fed the fold.

His hours in cheerful labor flew
Nor envy nor ambition knew,
His modest worth and generous fame
Through all the country raised his name.

A deep Philosopher whose rules
Of moral life were drawn from schools,
The Shepherd’s homely cottage sought
And thus explored his reach of thought.

Whence is thy learning? hath thy toil
O’er books consumed the midnight oil?
Hast thou old Greece and Rome surveyed
Or the vast sense of Plato weighed?


Hath Socrates thy soul refined,
	Or hast thou fathomed Tully's mind?

	The shepherd modestly replied:
	I ne'er the paths of learning tried;
	Nor have I roamed in foreign parts
	To read mankind their laws and arts.

	The little knowledge I have gained,
	Was all from simple nature drained,
	In constancy and faithful love,
	I learn my duty from the dove.

	The hen, which from the chilly air
	With pious wings protects her care;
	And every fowl that flies at large
	Instructs me in a parent's charge.

	My dog, the trusty of his kind,
	With gratitude inflames my mind;
	I mark his true and faithful way
	And in my service copy Tray."

	This reminds me of our Savior's words, "Ex-
cept ye become as a little child ye can not enter
into the kingdom of heaven."
	Do not we see in this poem what the God of
nature can do for one who has honesty of soul
and sincerity of heart in believing there is such a
Being who overrules the destiny of the human
family if they will only lend a listening ear to the
still small voice which naturally belongs to man
who is made in the image of God and has a germ
of the Deity to begin this journey of life?
	Yes, it both ennobles and refines the character of
those who will make themselves acquainted with
its marvelous charm, for such it truly proved to
be to the shepherd, giving him the deportment
of an educated person.
	Please read the history of our Savior Jesus
Christ, see what attainments He arrived at, yet
uneducated in worldly wisdom, though He was
compelled to learn both.
	Let us remember then that we did not come
into this world just to eat and drink and sleep,
but to learn these lessons, which we can do if we
practice the lessons that Jesus gave.
								M. E. K.
	Aug. 15, 1892.


