STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETING.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual Stockholders’
meeting of the W. C. M. & M. Institution, held
August 13th 1892, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms.
	Meeting was called to order by Vice President
M. Y. Dougal, President M. I. Horne being
absent from the city. Prayer was offered by C.
C. R. Wells. The minutes of the previous or
annual meeting were read and accepted. The
semi-annual report of the financial condition of
the business was then rendered by the Secretary.
	The following names were presented as nomi-
nees for members of the Board of Directors, that
quorum never having been full: Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards, Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Sarah
Howard,of Bountiful. Also the name of Mrs.E. H.
Woodmansee as Treasurer, and Gladys Wood-
mansee as Secretary, they having previously been
appointed to those positions by the Board of
Directors. The vote was called for and proved
unanimous in favor of sustaining these ladies as
members of the Board, and as Treasurer and
Secretary.
	Vice President M. Y. Dougal then spoke favor-
ably of the enterprise and dwelt upon the many
advantages to be derived from such an institution.
She urged the sisters to patronize the store, and
to agitate the matter, thus advertising it among
their friends. Was pleased with the report which
shows that we are not dead yet, but we must
have more patronage and a larger capital to work
with if we would make a success of this under-
taking.
	Mrs. E. H. Woodmansee then said that in be-
half of herself and daughter she would say that it
was in deference to the wishes of the Board of
Directors that they had again accepted these posi-
tions, as Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Carrie
Thomas, being occupied with domestic affairs,
were not able to devote their time to the Institu- 
tion. Spoke of the benefit of being able to ap-
prentice our daughters under a good influence,
and said if we will be patient some one, in the not
distant future, will have the pleasure of declaring
a dividend. Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke encourag-
ingly of our condition, and urged the necessity of
selling more stock; mentioned the pleasant in-
fluence which had always existed in our Institu-
tion. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells said that the Institu-
tion is as safe as the bank so far as we have gone,
but our hands are tied for the want of more capi-
tal; urged the sisters to take more stock and sus-
tain this Institution, as it will be for our benefit
in many ways.
	Meeting adjourned for six months or until the
Saturday nearest the 15th of February.
