Concerning Antique Furniture Dear Helen: Your letter from New York reached me early this morning. If it is true that you have really become afflicted with "antique fever," it is quite certain you will never fully recover. However, be cheered by the knowledge that in spite of your affliction you will experience delights that other people, not so affected, will never know. You say, "What shall I do?" "How can I learn about antiques?" "Please tell me where to begin." You are wise to start to furnish your house gradually, and work to a plan, as it takes a long time to make a home. The true home depends upon the heart and the spint of those trying to make it. Some people can make a home with scarcely a stick of furniture in it. I'm glad you have that gift. You are also wise to do something as a rest from your strenuous war work. Did you know that in England Walt Disney was considered to have made one of the most valuable contributions during the last war by producing his funny cartoons and furnishing relief from war strain? That is interesting, isn't it? I'm afraid I can't help you much, but since you have requested it, I will tell you how we went about furnishing our home. Naturally, gathering our furniture was tied up with our travels, but one does not necessarily have to travel to find beautiful furniture. There is beauty everywhere, even in the remotest villages if we but have eyes to discover it. My notes will be hodgepodge, as we traveled to so many places at such irregular intervals. Page 318 It would be impossible to go into detail about all "furniture periods," as there are more than fifty since prehistoric man. Egypt, Persia, China, Greece, Rome, Florence, Venice, and France all influenced later designs of furniture in other countries. A lotus design or any other particular pattern means that the makers of the original furniture on which it appeared were reproducing objects of nature about them. A wide seat in a chair usually indicates that the clothing of that particular period required more space than clothing of other times. 'The study of furniture will give you a most stimulating review of the history of the world with an intimate look at the home life of its people. When I began to furnish our home, I searched through magazines and books for suggestions. 'Then I visited all the big shops on the avenues in New York. The quantity of furniture I found there brought nothing but confusion to my mind. One day I was sure I liked Chippendale best; the next day I knew I preferred Sheraton; the next day it seemed as if the Queen Anne style was the only thing that would make our house right. Finally at John Wanamaker's, one of the most famous shops in the world, I found beautiful new furniture and lovely old pieces on the same floor, arranged with all the artistry of the great decorators. I looked at the shiny new pieces and then at the old. The new ones were spick and span; the old ones were more mellow with a lustre to the wood, aged and tried like an old friend. The more T looked at old pieces the more J CONCERNING ANTIQUE FURNITURE liked them, so I then tried to eliminate the styles I liked least. From that time my search for furniture was confined to places where old furniture was to be found. Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue had charming antique shops. Stepping into them I left the hustling, bustling atmosphere of New York behind and was transported to quiet salons filled with old-world commodes, tables, chairs, mirrors, and porcelains. From there I went to decorators' shops and auctioneers' sales, always trying to find what I really liked. During this time, I met Gertrude Gheen, an interior decorator, who was an artist with refined and discriminating taste. She was a great lover of homes, and thought all homes should be beautiful, as children were entitled to be brought up in beautiful surroundings. By this she did not mean expensive sutrroundings, but those which' conformed to the test of true beauty, simplicity, and a grace in line and form, which distinguishes it from the commonplace. Miss Gheen opened my eyes to the beauties of various styles of furniture. She also showed me pictures of lovely homes she had decorated. Looking at these pictures, I became aware that the rooms were not always done in matched sets, that the comfort and convenience of the people had been considered first, and the furniture suited to that purpose. Sometimes a lovely piece from one period was combined with other furniture of harmonizing styles. I realized that no one need be a slave of fashion. Gradually as I continued to observe and study the various periods, 319 The Sheraton clock has ticked for more than one hundred years. It now stands on a handmade Spanish rug, flanked by a walnut chair of a harmonizing period, and a walnut flower stand over which hangs an Italian mirror of the Renaissance influence. I found myself turning more and more to the period of Louis XVI, which held so much grace and charm without being pompous. My second choice was Sheraton because of the 'wonderful proportions used in his designs and the perfection of his structure. Sheraton, by the way, is credited with having made the first twin beds, and roll-top desk. He was also the first to make secret compartments in secretaries, desks, cabinets, and sideboards. My _ third choice was Colonial, as it is so homelike and refined. Fortunately, my husband liked the same styles, and told me to go ahead and choose the furniture for our apartment. Our living room was difficult to arrange. It was long and somewhat narrow, finishing off in a triangular end on Riverside Drive, overlooking the Hudson. The west wall was the long wall, so Miss Gheen suggested 320 The carved mahogany posts of the Sheraton bed are very effective against the chintz draperies. The side tables are also mahogany. 'The lamps are made from old bronze ums. The filet lace spread has been used on this bed for twenty-five years. For the center a long walnut Louis XVI sofa, which we found in a cabinetmaker's shop downtown. Then we found a pair of small mahogany two-shelf bookcases with white marble tops finished with a decorative brass gallery about one inch high. In addition a love seat, a kidney-shaped table, and a pair of carved bergere chairs, similar in feeling to the sofa, which we secured after considerable searching, made a good foundation for the room. Just at this time we were invited to take a motor trip with friends through New England. Such a trip is one of the most delightful in the world, up through Boston, visiting all the historic spots. The dignified New England houses reminded us of what the Puritans had done. The magnificent trees made us feel as if we had no need for houses. Maples, chestnuts, elms, and beeches arched over the highway in the villages andtowns, and covered the hills out in the country in the distance. And yet when night came, with its crisp autumn air, the sheltering roof of the inn was appreciated and the crackling logs in the fireplace drew our thoughts toward home. The inns were usually furnished with Early American or Colonial furniture. 'The walls were often of fine boards with little or no decoration. The windows were curtained with cretonnes and fish nets. Interesting old Bible boxes and pewter picces gave the atmosphere of olden days. The floors were made of wide pine boards often covered with hooked rugs. Sitting comfortably in these inns we could get the effect of the furniture and were able to make up our minds as to whether or not we liked it. As we drove to the various towns, we became very fond of it. We stopped to shop in the quaint stores. Our business soon took us to London. There we were introduced into many pleasant English homes. We shopped in Picadilly Circus where everything was so different from the skyscrapers of New York. Old things were on every side of us, offices, shops, and churches. The people were cheery and industrious, going about their business in fog and cold and acting as if it were a pleasant summer day. It was exciting to wander about in the streets, thinking of the history of the great city. We visited St. Paul's Cathedral which was rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren after the great fire in London. He was a great lover of furniture as well as an architect and did much to make living conditions better for the CONCERNING ANTIQUE FURNITURE 321 A Louis XVI commode is the center of attraction in this group, although the painting, bergere chair (at right) and occasional chair (at left) all have appeal. People generally. By this time we had decided to use furniture in the Sheraton style for our bedroom and other English pieces in' the dining room. One day while shopping in a little side street, we found a shop which had a grandfather's clock which had been made by Thomas Fletcher of Leeds. The dealer also had a Sheraton four poster bed with a canopy which we liked very much. Both pieces were accepted by the custom officials as being over 100 years old so they could enter the United States duty free as works of art. We bought the pieces and asked to have them sent to New York. It was interesting to watch the dealer pack them. First, he took off the pendulum of the clock, then lifted off the old iron weights that worked the hands of the clock and the striker. Next his men wrapped the case in paper and heavy packing straw and crated it, with the weights and pendulum also carefully wrapped. Then the men unhooked the draperies from the bed, unscrewed the canopy, and laid them in a neat pile, lifted off the box springs and mattress (which we did not buy), unscrewed the beautiful mahogany front posts carved in a laurelleaf pattern, and unbolted the heavy back posts-and backboard. The carved posts were wrapped like the clock, then were crated with all the other -pieces. Both clock and bed went down without complaint, and undismayed by the long journey to a strange land seemed to say: "Cheerio, old dears, we'll. See you in New York.", We went to Paris in April. The 322 The inlaid walnut dressing table is lighted by old-fashioned china lamps made from a pair of vases. The mirrors on the wall are green Venetian glass with etched figures. Sycamores were just putting forth their pale green leaves; there was sunshine and rain; and the whole world seemed enchanted. Paris was a happy place in those days. The poilus were back from the war and nothing else mattered. The museums were open and afforded us endless delight. The shops too were among the most beautiful we had ever seen. Along the boulevards near the opera house was displayed furniture of nearly all French types; but we still preferred Louis XVI for its quiet grace. 'There were several pieces that suited us exactly, so we purchased them. One was a simple commode beautifully inlaid with various designs, completed by a marble top. Another was an attractive mirror mounted in a carved and painted wooden frame, which looked lovely with a pair of brass candelabra decorated with rock-crystal flowers. Another piece that we found was a little inlaid walnut dressing table, with folding leaves on each side of a small attached mirror. It had to be reconditioned. The dealer agreed to do this before we bought it. It was astonishing what a miracle he worked with a little glue, fine sandpaper, wood filler, stain, and furniture polish. This little table was shipped to New York with the rest of the things and has since traveled thousands of miles. It now reposes quietly in my room still doing its duty. Modern furniture makers say it's ""Goodbye, Mr. Chippendale," but I cannot agree. Somehow there grows up an irreplaceable affection and respect for an antique that has weathered the buffetings of family life for fifty years Or more. Before you begin your search for furniture, check over everything at your mother's, your grandmother's and your uncles' and aunts'. Often they have lovely old pieces that they have finished with. One of my most treasured possessions is a small rectangular mirror in a lustre plaster frame. It crossed the plains with my grandmother nearly a hundred years ago and although somewhat mottled still gives back our reflections today. I prize also the rag rugs made twentyfive years ago by the Relief Society of which my mother was president. Used and washed these many years, they have taken on the soft colorings of great paintings and are still giving remarkable service as did the loving hands that made them. Well, here's wishing you luck with your furniture and "Happy Landing" or shall I say "Happy Finding?" As ever yours, Adele Cannon Howells