Purple Sage Lydia Hall 352
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 57,000

SPRING Julina B. Green The throaty song of the meadow lark, The blackbird's trill in the rush, The purple violet hiding low In the damp of the grasses lush, Sends a throbbing thrill intense as pain To my heart, and memories bring Of days long dead; but their spirits sweet Linger yet in the breath of spring. The saucy gray chipmunk chattering, The trout in the mountain brook, The pussy willow soft and shy In a shadowy, sheltered nook, With a magic spell my youth restores And I long 'mong the hills to roam As once in that sweet lost long ago Where rocks teased the water to foam. The bees abuzz in the lazy warmth On the sunny side of a bank, The musty smell of the rotting leaves At the roots of new grasses rank, Fan embers of fires that burned long ago And struck a responsive string On the harp of my heart, asleep so long, With recurrence of lovely spring. VOL. 30,NO. 5 MAY 1943 113th Annual Conference Elder Bryant S. Hinckley HERE is no other gathering in 'L'a world just like a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Laymen and leaders come from all the vast territory covered by the stakes of Zion. These conferences have a social and economic, as well as a spiritual value. The local leaders from wards and branches gather in Salt Lake City, the headquarters of the Church, for instruction, inspiration, and to transact the necessary business of the Church. They hear the annual reports, financial and otherwise, sustain with their vote the General Authorities of the Church, and go home refreshed in spirit and renewed in faith. These gatherings give solidarity to the whole body of the Church, unify and harmonize its plans and purposes, stimulate the faith of the members, and encourage the leaders to greater endeavor. Owing to the war, the attendance at the 113th annual conference was restricted to the Priesthood leaders and admission to the conference sessions was by card. The meetings were held on April 4th, sth, and 6th, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. A new feature was the holding of regional conferences on the two Sundays following, at which representatives of the General Authorities were in attendance to carry over the spirit and message of the general conference. President Grant was present at all of the sessions of this conference except one. Yielding to the advice of his physician he did not speak, but dictated an address which was read by President David O. McKay. From the opening sentence, "To the Latterday Saints all over the world, I send my love and greetings," to the final paragraph of this inspired message, the vast audience listened with rapt attention and were thrilled by what the venerable leader had to say. Among other things, the President said, "My heart goes out in the deepest sympathy and in the most sincere and earnest prayer that I have ever offered for the comforting ifluence of the Lord to be given to the brethren and sisters who have sons in the war at the present time. I pray that Page 301 302 the Lord will bless each and every boy who has been called or who has gone into the service, and that He will help each of them to live in accordance with the principles of the Gospel, so that each may havea claim to the blessings of the Lord.... I pray that, so far as it accords with the providence of the Lord, each of them may be preserved from accident, sickness, and death, to return in due course to his loved ones. I pray God to help them to stand up under the terrible strain which they must meet. I appeal to the Lord to bring the war to an end at the earliest possible date. My heart goes out to all of you.... I want to thank the people for their prayers in my behalf. I have not been well now for a period of more than three years, and yet during all that time I have never suffered any pain. My days have been full of joy. I have seen the Church grow _.. As I have never seen it grow before.... Years ago I made a short speech that lasted a minute and a half to the effect that we were architects of our own lives, and that we and we alone are responsible for not making a success of life. What I said was as follows: 'If you want to know how to be saved, I can tell you; it is by keeping the commandments of God. No power on earth, no power beneath the earth, will ever prevent you or me or any Latter-day Saint from being saved, except ourselves. We are the architects of our own lives, not only of the lives here, but the lives to come in the eternity. We ourselves are able to perform every duty and obligation that God has required of men. No commandment was ever given to us but that God has given us the power to keep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 that commandment. If we fail, we, and we alone, are responsible for the failure, because God endows His servants from the President of the Church down to the humblest member, with all the ability, all the knowledge, all the power that is necessary, faithfully, diligently, and properly to discharge every duty and every obligation that rests upon them, and we, and we alone, will have to answer if we fail in this regard.' " 'These words were uttered forty years ago. They were true then and they are true now. Continuing he said, "I am grateful to our Heavenly Father for the faith and faithfulness of this great people, for their devotion to His service, for their effort and determination to live in accordance with His laws and commandments. I thank our Heavenly Father that He has given them the strength and courage to resist evils as well as they have been able to do so. I pray that He will bless the youth of the Church and give them strength to overcome temptation. I pray that He will bring into the heart of every boy, and of every girl a knowledge that cleanliness is next to godliness, that they must live clean both in mind and in body, that they will understand that the sin of unchastity is to the Lord next to the sin of murder. I pray that the Lord will give to the parents of the youth an understanding and appreciation of the dangers and temptations to which their children are subjected, that they may be led and guided to encourage their children, to direct them, to teach them how to live as the Lord would have them live. The Lord has said He would sift His people, and I pray that when that sifting 113th ANNUAL CONFERENCE comes no parent may have failed to do his duty, and no child shall have failed to obey the commandments of the Lord." RESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Gave the concluding address of the Priesthood meeting Monday night. His manner was modest and impressive. His words clear, convincing, and authoritative, findin lodging in the minds of all who heard them. His appeal had a spiritual force and an effectiveness altogether uncommon. He pointed out the responsibility of the leaders of the Church with reference to the Latterday Saint boys in the armed service of the country. He began his remarks by asking how many had themselves served in the armed forces of the nation during the World War I then he asked who of those. Present had sons now serving in the army, and then he added those who had grandsons, and then those who had sons and grandsons subject to service in the war. Approximately half of the congregation of Priesthood officers in the Church were on their feet. This, he said, was an indication of the far reaching effects of the war. He told of the publications of literature for these service men in the form of a pocket edition of the Book of Mormon, a book on the principles of the Gospel, and a small Church Directory. "Our young men in the armed forces will need all of our faith and prayers and all that they can get from these books to help them live righteously." He referred to the commandment, "Honor thy father and thy mother" and then stressed the responsibility of Latter-day Saints to care properly 303 for their families. ""The Church," he declared, "is prepared, with your help and assistance, to take care of those who need such assistance, and if any of the Saints have cast their parents off see if you can not get them to take them back... If they need help in this let them go to the Bishops and get it in the right way.... If we assume the obligations which God has given to us, we will care for our own.... Do not be lulled to sleep by any... Slogan as that the State ' owes to every man a subsistence." President Clark gave a new definition for needy in the Church Welfare Program. He said the Church has always regarded those in need as those being without food or the necessities of life. 'Today there is a new group in need of help. This group includes any man or woman who, in this emergency, is in need of help to harvest his crops or to keep. His business going. He advocated this as a new approach for quorum activities and urged the men of the Priesthood to organize and take over this responsibility. He declared that marriage should be one of the holiest ordinances into which members of the Church can enter. He discouraged marriage by our young people with those who are not members of the Church for frequently such marriages end in tragedy. He said, "Every consideration of faith, principles of right living, Church doctrine, and Church standards, requires that we should guard, as we would guard our lives, the chastity of our girls. There are all kinds of influences at work to break down these standards. I was told the other day that we have a new phrase, that young girls who 304 smoke and drink and may be doing other things talk about "new Mormons" as distinguished from the "old Mormons." I wish to say to them that those who abandon the standards and principles of the Church are not Mormons at all," and, "I urge you young women and girls to remember that in the schedule of crimes, unchastity comes next to murder. Do not subject yourselves to its penalty." He said the members of the Church are called upon now to sacrifice their sons but because they have to sacrifice their sons is no reason why they should sacrifice their daughters. President Clark, concluded with this impressive observation: "What a tragic spectacle man is showing to his God today. We have rightly boasted for nearly a hundred years that in this, the Last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, the Lord was pouring out His inspiration and His blessings upon all the world, unlocking to His children secrets that never were dreamed of by the ancients, giving them powers and dominions over the forces of nature, bringing under subjection almost the universe. Look at what the last century has given us in art, literature, science, discoveries, for our blessing and advancement. God gave all this to us to bless us. And then consider that now, in this terrible hour, every device, every invention, every discovery God gave us to bless us is being used to destroy one another in one of the most barbarous wars of all time. God will not hold guiltless those responsible for this holocaust." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 PRESIDENT David O. McKay's address was a clear and eloquent declaration of the ideals of Mormonism as they should be lived today by every Latter-day Saint. To the people of the nation and to the Latter-day Saints, President McKay voiced this vital admonition: "While our sons, sweethearts, and husbands are offering their lives in defense of the God-given gift of Free Agency and for the right to live without the domination of tyranny, let us in the 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as citizens of our beloved country, use our influence to see that men and women of upright character, of unimpeachable honor are elected to office, that our homes are kept unpolluted and unbroken by infidelity, that children therein will be trained to keep the commandments of the Lord, 'to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent and virtuous, and to do good to all men.'" He held the home as the second essential element in the building and perpetuity of a great people. He said, "If, and when the time comes that parents shift to the State the responsibility of rearing their children, the stability of the Nation will be undermined, and its impairment and disintegration will have begun." He scored the increasing divorce rate in the United States as a threatening menace to this nation's greatness. Race suicide and tandem polygamous relationships made possible by lax divorce laws are enemies of ideal national life. The increase throughout the United States in the percentage of divorces is alarming. And _ this insidious evil is increasing in the Church. There are too many couples in the Church, who when trouble 113th ANNUAL CONFERENCE arises, seek solution in the divorce courts. In discussing the home as the most important factor in building a great nation, President McKay declared that the most vicious enemy to home life is immorality. 'This corroding evil" he said, "is just as demoralizing to the young man as to the young woman." More than thirty discourses were delivered at the conference, every one of which was permeated with hope, encouragement, and the spirit of eternal truth. There were fervent testimonies borne and many messages of real eloquence given that will enrich the literature of the Church. The contribution which religion should make to the home, to the nation, and to society were clearly and forcefully presented. 305 The Church of the Air Address on Sunday morning, April 4th, which was a part of the general conference was given by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, "Blessed Is the Nation Whose God Is the Lord." Although the attendance at the conference was restricted to the Priesthood leadership, its spirit and influence will reach to the remotest corner and branch of the Church. Frequent reference was made to the Church Welfare Program. The annual report showed that the Relief Society had disbursed to the needy $371,442. This large sum does not represent a tithe of the contribution of this great and benevolent society to the welfare of the people of the Church. LORD, LET MY PRAYERS FOR OTHERS BE Irene R. Davis My soul, oppressed, sought Thee to tell My secret needs and woes. And still I groped and strove in dark; to find That I was lost, and hope was blind. In vain I prayed, my heart outpoured! I somehow failed to reach Thee, Lord. I prayed for wisdom. Now I see, My prayers were always prayers for me. My woes and needs and cares came first; No thought to slake my brother's thirst; Lord, let my prayers for others be; Perhaps someone will pray for me. PRESIDENT AND MRS. HEBER J. GRANT PRESIDENT AND MRS. HEBER J. GRANT OBSERVE. WEDDING ANNIVERSARY 'THIS, the latest picture taken together of President and Sister Grant, is a hitherto unpublished one. With its publication, the General Board, on behalf of the entire membership of the Relief Society, congratulates this distinguished and revered couple upon arriving, on May twenty-sixth, at the fifty-ninth milestone of their married life. This photograph, taken in the out-of-doors in which they both delight, reflects an alert expression on both of their faces, showing that at the age of eighty-six they still enjoy life to the fullest. It is our heartfelt desire that they may continue throughout their lives to enjoy health and happiness. Page 306 Teach Tithing In the Home. Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards N the quorums of the Aaronic Priesthood there is considerable attention given to the teaching of the law of tithing. Young men are taught that one-tenth of their increase belongs to the Lord. They are taught that this divine command from our Heavenly Father applies, with equal force, to each member of the Church, whether young or old. They are taught that income, not age, determines the obligation. Too frequently our youth grow up under the impression that the payment of tithing may, or even should be, deferred until maturity. Inquiry and observation reveal that in a great many cases Our young people become acquainted with the law of tithing for the first time in the quorums of the Aaronic Priesthood or in the classes of the various auxiliary organizations of the Church. In such instances this means that they have never been taught tithing by their parents in the home. If they become acquainted with this law of the Lord, they must receive this information and training outside the parental home. This is not as the Lord would have it. The obligation for teaching young people rests first upon father and mother in the home. The quorums of the Priesthood and the auxiliary organizations of the Church serve as supplements and aids to the home, but in no way relieve parents of their responsibility to teach their children to obey the commandments of the Lord. Failure to teach our sons and daughters to pay an honest tithe brings them under the Lord's stinging indictment "'... Ye have robbed me." Innocently they inquire, "Wherein have we robbed thee?" The reply, "In tithes and offerings" will prompt their plea of innocence but their guilt is none the less real. And all of this they suffer largely because parents failed them during the tender and impressionable years of youth. It is a safe conclusion that parents generally fail to teach their children the law of tithing because they themselves have not been obedient thereto. A father or a mother who pays an honest tithe is always proud to have sons and daughters know that this obligation has been discharged, and to have them do likewise. But the parent who pays little or no attention to this commandment frequently seeks to justify his disobedience by attempting to discredit the validity of this law of the Lord. He may even go so far as to discourage his children's obedience in order that he may experience the sinful comfort of companionship in disobedience. From various sections of the Church there are numerous examples coming to light which attest the effectiveness of the teachings of the Aaronic Priesthood quorums and other Church organizations relative to the law of tithing. Young men and young women whose parents have never paid tithing are faithful in returning one-tenth to the Lord. Still other parents have become converted to the payment of tithing when their sons and daughters have Page 307 308 set the example in th taithful dis- 'charge 'of 'this 'obligation. This is commendable but it does not justify the shift of this responsibility from the parental home to the Church organizations. It may some day be embarrassing for children to be obliged to give to the Church, instead of their parents, the credit for teaching them the law of tithing. It will be still more embarrassing when our Heavenly Father inquires of parents as to why they neglected this parental duty. Many children today, some young and some now grown to maturity, are being denied the great blessings attendant upon the payment of tithing because their parents did not teach them while in the home to obey this law. It is in this way that the Lord visits "... The iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation...." Surely, no parent can feel happy about his neglect when it means that his children are not entitled to the blessings they otherwise would have received had they been taught to pay an honest tithe. The ideal situation is for our young people to be properly taught and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 trained in the home to be obedient to the commandments of the Lord, and then receive the supplementary teachings in the Priesthood quorums | and the auxiliary organizations of the Church. The home and the Church working unitedly together will accomplish a marvelous work and perform a. Noble mission in the training of the youth of Zion. One instance of this cooperation between the home and the Church reveals that sixty-six young men residing in two wards in the same stake, came up through the quorums of the Aaronic Priesthood where the law of tithing received its proper emphasis, and during their first year as ordained elders paid an average tithe of $77.12 each. These young men had faithfully paid their tithing during the years they served as deacons, teachers, and priests, with the result that when they were ordained to the Melchizedek Priesthood the teachings of the home and the Church together had become an integral part of their lives. This is as the Lord would have it. This is the way we may bind Him to His promised blessings which He anxiously waits to pour out upon the faithful everywhere. May is here! The air is fresh and sunny; And the miser-bees are busy Hoarding golden honey. Thomas Bailey Aldrich. She Let Her Light So Shine Edith Smith Elhott Member of Relief Society General Board HE Salt Lake City Council of Women chose 1943 to be a banner year in the lives of women, the year to select new members for their Hall of Fame. Twice before they have made an occasion to honor women who have been outstanding in the community. This year the nominations were made by organizations affiliated with the Council, and later the voting by club presidents or delegates resulted in the choice of seven women who have given service unsolicited to their community in various fields of progress. The members of the Relief Society were delighted to have their President, Amy Brown Lyman, recognized. Her life has been one of continual contribution to the welfare of her fellow men. Other women selected for the same honor were: Dr. Maud May Babcock, Judge Reva Beck Bosone, Mrs. W. F. Core, Mrs. Arthur E. Graham, Mrs. R. W. Fisher, and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards. The Council employed various means to acquaint the public with the wonderful contributions made by those they honored. Beginning March 11, 1943, a unique series of radio programs was presented. Each day for seven days, a fifteen-minute program was broadcast over radio station KSL which gave interesting glimpses into the lives of the new members of the Hall of Fame. The series was capably ditected by Louise Hill Howe of KSL. Priscilla L. Evans, member of the General Board, had charge of gathering the material to be presented PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN AND MASTER CANDLE SYMBOLIC OF ACHIEVEMENTS RECOGNIZED IN HER ELECTION TO THE HALL OF FAME for Mrs. Lyman. Mrs. Lyman's biographical sketch was given March 18, 1943. An interesting account of the achievements of our beloved President clearly indicated why she was selected for-this award. The evening of March 20, 1943, the Salt Lake City Council of Women further honored their selectees at a large public reception in the Junior Ballroom of the Hotel Utah. In the receiving line were Mrs. Ed F. Shepherd, president of the Council, Mrs. Emily S. Stewart, reception chairPage 309 310 man, Mrs. Grant Gregerson and Mrs. Junius Fisher, assistants to Mrs. Stewart, and the honored women. The reception lasted for one hour, during which hundreds of friends took advantage of the privilege to congratulate the guests of honor. Many state and civic officials were among those who called. President and Mrs. Heber J. Grant paid honor to the occasion by attending the reception, as did other Latter-day Saint Church officials. A large banquet in the Lafayette Ballroom followed. The reception. Approximately 300 dinner guests greeted the famous women as they entered and took their places at the speaker's table. A program followed the dinner. Mrs. Stewart welcomed those assembled. She introduced the program chairman, Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner, who outlined the events to follow. The introduction to the program was made by Council President Mrs. Ed F. Shepherd. She briefly and graciously outlined the outstanding characteristics of each of the seven elect ladies. At the completion of her talk, playlets or skits were presented from the stage in the ballrooom, depicting phases of interest from the lives of those honored. The General Board of the Relief Society took charge of the skits for President Amy Brown Lyman and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, the first editor of the Woman's Exponent and an active participator in Relief Society endeavor. The literary committee of the General Board, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Rae B. Barker, arranged the skit for Mrs. Richards. Mary Grant Judd wrote and directed it, emphasizing her litRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 erary gifts, spirituality, and charm. Edith Smith Elliott was chairman of the committee to arrange the playlet narrating Mrs. Lyman's gifts and attainments. The skit, a collaboration by Mrs. Elliott, Mrs. Vilate Raile, and Mr. Francis Urry of KSL, was built around the following paragraph taken from Mrs. Lyman's autobiography, "In Retrospect": Our home, a one and one-half story adobe house, was lighted with kerosene lamps and candleslamps for downstairs and candles for upstairs. The candles were molded by my Mother's own hands. As we ascended the stairs each evening, a mark on the candle indicated how long we could study or visit or play before we retired. Can't we all picture little Amy Brown eager to crowd as much development as possible into the time that the flame of the candle could shed its warmth and light? The miniature drama opened with the stage very simply set. On the stage left front was a microphone. At the right front was a small oldfashioned table and armchair. On the table was a lighted candle in a candlestick. In the center at the back of the stage were some ragcarpeted stairs, and on each side of the stairs were tall seven-branch candelabra holding eighteen-inch white tapers.. After a brief introduction by the narrator, Helen Ann Young of KSL, the spotlight was thrown off the left of the stage. While a string trio played "Lead Kindly Light," Amy Kathryn Lyman, a granddaughter of President Lyman, appeared carrying a large book representing her grandmother's autobiography. She was dressed in pale pink chiffon which emphasized the beauty of her blonde SHE LET HER LIGHT SO SHINE hair and fair skin. She stood before the microphone and said: "Reading from the autobiography of my grandmother, Amy Brown Lyman, I came upon this paragraph." She then read the paragraph referred to above. While she read, Mrs. Lyman's daughter, Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, came onto the stage dressed as Mrs. Lyman's mother. She sat in the chair by the oldfashioned table. Four children came in next and gathered around Mother Brown who went through the motions of lighting the candle. In pantomime she explained the mark on the candle, kissed each child goodnight and sent them up the ragcarpeted stairs, and then went off the stage. Three of the children were Richard, John, and Gretchen Schreiner, grandchildren of President Lyman. The fourth, Shauna Stewart, played the part of little Amy Brown at about the age of twelve years. Following this episode, Amy Kathryn mused: The idea intrigued me. I visualized my grandmother as a little girl, in a gray linseywool dress, her dark hair combed smoothly from her face. In my mind I could see her eyes fastened on the mark her mother had made on the candle she carried, and I know she was hoping it would burn slowly that she might get as much reading done as possible. Again and again I thought of her letting a brother or a sister light a candle from hers, and of the uncountable times she has let others light theirs also. I thought of the dark corners into which she carried her lighted candle. Then suddenly I knew it was because she carried a "candle," because she shared her "light" with thousands of others that she is a great and noble woman. In fancy through the years I seem to see her as she goes about lighting many 311 candles to increase the ever-glowing brilliance of the lightthe torch first placed in her hands by Deity and kindly parents. At this point, little Amy Brown appeared coming back down the stairs with a lighted candle in her hand and began to light the tapers in the tall candelabra, each representing the light that Mrs. Lyman has shared in different fields of progress. As each candle was lighted, Amy Kathryn recited the accomplishment which the candle represented: 1. As a homesteader she shed her light in the desert, helping to make it blossom as the rose. 2. She did volunteer service at Hull House with Jane Addams. 3. She shared her knowledge with others in the field of teaching. 4. Her home is a place of gentleness, culture, refinement, and hospitality. 5. As a legislator she used rare judgment. 6. She fosters fine arts in her family and community.: 7. She has programmed intelligently for the underprivileged at American Fork. 8. She served nine years as an officer in the National Council of Women. G. Grandmother was a delegate six times to the conventions of the International Council of Women. 10. A pioneer in social welfare, nationally and internationally. 11. She has given generously of her means, time, and talents in patriotic endeavor. 12. As a missionary in Europe she spread the light of Christianity. 13. Established the "Amy Brown Lyman Loan Fund" to help girls with their education at the Brigham Young University. 14. Crowning the activities of her life's work of service, she presides today over the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saintsmembership 115,000 members. (Continued on page 347) A Tribute to May Green Hinckley Adele C. Howells, LaVerne W. Parmley The Counselors to Mrs. Hinckley in General Presidency of Primary MAY GREEN HINCKLEY AY Green Hinckley was born in Brampton, Derbyshire, England. She came to Utah with her mother when she was six years old. Her life has been one of faith and service. She has been active in the Church since her early girlhood. She served as a teacher in the Sunday School and in the Young Women's Mutual Improve- 'ment Association. From 1907- 1909 she served as a missionary in the Central States Mission. Upon returning home, she served as president of the Granite Stake Y. W. M. LA. For twelve years. In January of 1936, she was called with her husband, Bryant S. Hinckley, to preside over the Northern Page 312 States Mission. Soon after their release from the mission field, the First Presidency appointed her general president of the Primary Association, which position she held until her death on May 2, 1943. May Hinckley was an able executive and leader in her many and varied positions. She was a tireless worker and had unlimited energy. She knew how to work a little longer, a little harder, and a little better than most people. She had vision, understanding, good judgment, and enthusiasm. In her love and devotion for the work of the Lord she forgot self. As president of the Primary organization, the only desire of her heart has been to help the officers and teachers in the field that they might better teach the children to pray and to walk uptightly before the Lord. She served in humility and love. May Hinckley was endowed with the attributes of true success. She had a grateful heart, a thoughtful mind, a friendly smile, a kindly word, a helpful hand, and a loyal and courageous spirit. The beautiful floral tributes banked high on the stand in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall where her funeral services were held on Wednesday, May 5s, and the large attendance attested to the great love and esteem in which May' Hinckley was held. In her death, hundreds of people have lost a true friend; the Primary organization has lost a devoted leader; the Church has lost a loyal, faithful member; and the community has lost a great woman. Rachel Ridgway Ivins Grant Mary Grant Judd Member of Relief Society General Board (Part I of this two-part article appeared in the April issue.) RACHEL RIDGWAY IVINS GRANT AND HER SON HEBER This picture was taken on President Grant's ninth birthday. N a December morning of the year 1856, it was bitingly cold in Salt Lake City. Dark and sombre it appeared to Rachel Ivins Grant, a pioneer wife who lay ill with her first-born, a son, in' an oldfashioned cradle beside her. On November twenty-second, the baby had been born and his life had almost cost her own. _It was but a few days before the birth of the son, that the father, Page 313 314 Jedediah M. Grant, a vigorous man in the prime of life, had collapsed. The strain of his responsibilities and the unusual efforts he had put forth as leader in the religious movement of that time known as the Reformation, had caused his health to break. A brief and severe illness attacked him, and when the baby Heber was nine days old, Rachel's husband died. On this morming when her husband was to be buried, she lay in her room on the second floor of the comfortable adobe dwelling which had been her home during the three short years of her married life. Later she heard the funeral throngs coming and going below and wished that she might have been able to attend the services for her husband which were to be held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle; for Jedediah M. Grant had been a man of prominence in the community, being not only mayor of the City, but also second counselor to President Brigham Young. It was three o'clock in the afternoon before Rachel heard the last strains of a funeral march die away and knew that this seemingly endless day would soon come to a close. How alone she felt only those can realize who, like herself, have forsaken friends and home for an unpopular religion. With the exception of an older sister Anna, her only kin was the small bundle of humanity beside her. This baby was all that she had to live and work for. She must have thought that here was her task; to teach her son of the father he had never known, and make of him the sort of man that father would have wished his son to be. How well she accomplished her high RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 design, there are thousands to attest today. Rachel was left with but meagre financial resources. To earn a livelihood for herself and her boy she did fine hand sewing. But this class of work brought in so little, for the longspent hours, that she found it impossible to get ahead, and as time went by, it became increasingly hard for her to live on at the Grant homestead. When Rachel's son was six years old, it was decided among the heirs of Jedediah M. Grant to sell this property on Main Street (where Z. C. M. I. Now stands), and divide the proceeds. Rachel's share was five hundred dollars with which she bought a tiny home on Second East Street just below South Temple. Here, in hard circumstances, the young Heber was given "the advantages of poverty" and learned to appreciate his mother's independence of spirit as she uncomplainingly assumed the entire financial burden of her home. Thirty years later, speaking of these hard times in a letter to her son, Rachel had this to say: "I never felt humiliated at having to work and support myself and you, and I thanked my Heavenly Father for giving me the strength and ability to do it. When talking to President Young I said if the Lord would give me health and strength, it was all I asked. And when thinking of many things I have passed through, hard and unpleasant, how happy it makes me now that I never complained, not even to my sister. I knew she would feel bad. I can talk about them now without caring." RACHEL RIDGWAY IVINS GRANT Denying themselves all but the bare necessities of life, Rachel and Heber decided that they must save for one of the wonderful new sewing machines that were newly on the market. And when it was hers, the ambitious mother, after sewing all day in some other woman's house, would often return home, prepare supper, and when she and Heber had cleared away the meal and washed and wiped the dishes, she would go at her sewing again, working far into the night. The touching picture of her little boy sitting on the floor and, with his hands, working the treadles of the machine so that her tired limbs could rest, is one that has misted the eyes of many listeners of President Heber J. Grant's sermons as he eulogized his mother. "Being Mother's -only child," he once said, "we have been very dear to each other. I doubt if a mother and son were ever any nearer for she was both father and mother to me. Her tender love bound me to her with cords of steel." Rachel's was a very hospitable nature and she did not let her limited financial resources deter herself and her son from entertaining their friends. The little home saw frequent gatherings. "Yes," she said later in speaking of those times, "they loved to come and I loved to have them. Ofttimes Heber and I would live on very scanty fare that we might have the greater pleasure of sharing with our friends. 'Sister Grant,' the boys would say, 'we have such good times here.' " N spite of her hardships, Rachel was happy in Utah, happier than she had been at an earlier date in 315 New Jersey, since physical hardships are always easier to bear than mental anxieties. So when her brother wrote from the East begging her to return and offering to settle upon her a substantial annuity for life, she declined to accept his offer; for there was a condition attachedshe must tenounce Mormonism for good and all and this she could not do. It was dearer to her than life itself. Rachel developed for herself, and taught her son, a philosophy of life that was simple and satisfying. She accepted her religion with childlike faith and left the mysteries for others to solve. She believed in the innate goodness of man springing from the actuality of God as his Father; that a Divine Providence makes and "Shapes our lives and that no matter what happens, all will come right in the end. Her motto was, "It is all for the best." Her son says of her: "So near to the Lord would she get in her prayers that they were a wonderful source of inspiration to me from childhood to manhood. When success came she was thankful; when a child was born she thanked the Lord; and when a loved one died she always felt to acknowledge the hand of the Lord." While Rachel was still a young woman and Heber a lad, she had opportunity of putting her philosophy to the test. Could she say of the fresh trial that came, "It is all for the best?" Yes, she could and did. Following a severe attack of quinsy, she commenced losing her hearing and eventually was almost totally deaf. 'This tragic handicap she patiently bore to the close of her long life. Never again could she 316 hear or join in the congregational singing which she loved. Neither could she listen to the sermons of the brethren. Heber learned to throw his voice in a sharp staccato and could make her hear him when he was across the room, but all others had to place their mouths close against her ear to be understood. But though she could not hear what was going on, Rachel still attended her meetings to partake of the sacrament and enjoy the spirit of the occasion. And, in some inexplicable way, her thoughts were directed in the same channels as those of the speakers. 'This was especially true in the regular monthly fast meetings. She was a beautiful speaker and loved to bear her testimony. Often she would arise and speak right along the same line of thought which had been developed by the others. She continued the custom in her home of having family prayers night and morning. She would take her turn, even though she could not hear her own voice, and when it became Heber's turn he would kneel beside her and pray into her ear. With characteristic optimism Rachel discovered, among the many trying features of her deafness, some phases to be grateful for. She was spared much of the noise and confusion with which others were troubled, and it was so difficult for people to make her hear that they didn't bother to relay her gossip or anything of the kind. She expressed her attitude in these words: "I grieve that I cannot hear, but while I cannot hear much of the good that is spoken, my peace is not marred by the evil that is spoken." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 Her son says of her: "My mother was one of the most even-tempered and best dispositioned women that I have ever known.. I have often wished that I could have such a calm, peaceful temperament as she had. I do not recall ever seeing her angry or hearing her speak an unkind word." Rachel's natural friendliness, understanding, and sympathy, offset her handicap of deafness. People loved to be in her society and she loved people. She was made president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society and served in this charitable organization in this capacity for over thirty years. In season and out she visited the sick, went to the house of mourning, even caring for the dead, and, in every way, relieved suffering and distress. Her son says: "Her absolute confidence in the hereafter was a great source of comfort and blessing in the hour of death to all with whom she came in contact." In early days there were no formal organizations centrally directing the several ward Relief Societies, the general board being a later development. 'There was, however, a group known as "the leading women of the church" and of this group Rachel formed a part. Here she was intimately associated with such outstanding characters as Eliza R. Snow, Bathsheba Smith, Emmeline B. Wells and others. As the widow of Jedediah M. Grant and an individual well-born in her own right, she retained the association and interest of the leaders of the Church, particularly President Brigham Young. As a boy, Heber had been playing on the floor at home when kindly RACHEL RIDGWAY IVINS GRANT Bishop Woolley, father of the Thirteenth Ward, had called upon his mother and proffered the help of the ward to fix the leaky roof of her home.: He had heard her reply: "I do not wish to be supported by the Church, I am too independent for that. 'The roof can wait until my son is older and can earn money enough to have it fixed." The young boy was greatly impressed by his mother's confidence in him. Then and there the financial aspect of life took on great importance as he resolved to repay her at the earliest possible time for her sacrifices in his behalf. This accounts for the fact that he left school at an early age and went into business for himself where he was signally successful. He lived to see the day when he was able to give his mother all the comforts of life. The religious teachings of his mother, however, and her fervent desire for him to emulate the example of his father and give his chief allegiance, not to business, but to his Church, were the determining factors in helping him to shape his life into what it has become. He learned that there are other things in life far more important than wealth. "It is a glorious thing," he says, "to be, like Nephi of old, 'born 317 of goodly parents,' it is of more worth than wealth or precious stones. No boy on earth could have had a better mother, and if I succeed in the battle of life, I will owe it all to her." Herein lay, not only Rachel's greatest joy, but a power above all unsought by her, which has perpetuated her name and made it shine out as one of the brightest among the women of the Church. When Rachel was eighty-one years old (seven years before her death), the following poem by Paul Shivell as being applicable to herself was sent her: "Thou art the chosen mother of a son, Sent to thy care from heaven, as thou wert sent, To carry on the work by Christ begun, Who came from heaven to show us what God meant. As Mary was exalted by the event Which gave us Christ, so if thou give us one To do God's will, thou, too, shall rise content Above thy days, thy cup shall. Overrun With very joyance; and the grateful tears Of happy motherhood shall lift thy soul Like some fair cloud above the sea of _ years. Thou, by thy loving precepts, shalt control Men and affairs, and thyself glorify Our noble mothers were not born to die." Happy he, With such a mother! Faith in womankind Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high Comes easy to him...Tennyson. Concerning Antique Furniture Dear Helen: Your letter from New York reached me early this morning. If it is true that you have really become afflicted with "antique fever," it is quite certain you will never fully recover. However, be cheered by the knowledge that in spite of your affliction you will experience delights that other people, not so affected, will never know. You say, "What shall I do?" "How can I learn about antiques?" "Please tell me where to begin." You are wise to start to furnish your house gradually, and work to a plan, as it takes a long time to make a home. The true home depends upon the heart and the spint of those trying to make it. Some people can make a home with scarcely a stick of furniture in it. I'm glad you have that gift. You are also wise to do something as a rest from your strenuous war work. Did you know that in England Walt Disney was considered to have made one of the most valuable contributions during the last war by producing his funny cartoons and furnishing relief from war strain? That is interesting, isn't it? I'm afraid I can't help you much, but since you have requested it, I will tell you how we went about furnishing our home. Naturally, gathering our furniture was tied up with our travels, but one does not necessarily have to travel to find beautiful furniture. There is beauty everywhere, even in the remotest villages if we but have eyes to discover it. My notes will be hodgepodge, as we traveled to so many places at such irregular intervals. Page 318 It would be impossible to go into detail about all "furniture periods," as there are more than fifty since prehistoric man. Egypt, Persia, China, Greece, Rome, Florence, Venice, and France all influenced later designs of furniture in other countries. A lotus design or any other particular pattern means that the makers of the original furniture on which it appeared were reproducing objects of nature about them. A wide seat in a chair usually indicates that the clothing of that particular period required more space than clothing of other times. 'The study of furniture will give you a most stimulating review of the history of the world with an intimate look at the home life of its people. When I began to furnish our home, I searched through magazines and books for suggestions. 'Then I visited all the big shops on the avenues in New York. The quantity of furniture I found there brought nothing but confusion to my mind. One day I was sure I liked Chippendale best; the next day I knew I preferred Sheraton; the next day it seemed as if the Queen Anne style was the only thing that would make our house right. Finally at John Wanamaker's, one of the most famous shops in the world, I found beautiful new furniture and lovely old pieces on the same floor, arranged with all the artistry of the great decorators. I looked at the shiny new pieces and then at the old. The new ones were spick and span; the old ones were more mellow with a lustre to the wood, aged and tried like an old friend. The more T looked at old pieces the more J CONCERNING ANTIQUE FURNITURE liked them, so I then tried to eliminate the styles I liked least. From that time my search for furniture was confined to places where old furniture was to be found. Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue had charming antique shops. Stepping into them I left the hustling, bustling atmosphere of New York behind and was transported to quiet salons filled with old-world commodes, tables, chairs, mirrors, and porcelains. From there I went to decorators' shops and auctioneers' sales, always trying to find what I really liked. During this time, I met Gertrude Gheen, an interior decorator, who was an artist with refined and discriminating taste. She was a great lover of homes, and thought all homes should be beautiful, as children were entitled to be brought up in beautiful surroundings. By this she did not mean expensive sutrroundings, but those which' conformed to the test of true beauty, simplicity, and a grace in line and form, which distinguishes it from the commonplace. Miss Gheen opened my eyes to the beauties of various styles of furniture. She also showed me pictures of lovely homes she had decorated. Looking at these pictures, I became aware that the rooms were not always done in matched sets, that the comfort and convenience of the people had been considered first, and the furniture suited to that purpose. Sometimes a lovely piece from one period was combined with other furniture of harmonizing styles. I realized that no one need be a slave of fashion. Gradually as I continued to observe and study the various periods, 319 The Sheraton clock has ticked for more than one hundred years. It now stands on a handmade Spanish rug, flanked by a walnut chair of a harmonizing period, and a walnut flower stand over which hangs an Italian mirror of the Renaissance influence. I found myself turning more and more to the period of Louis XVI, which held so much grace and charm without being pompous. My second choice was Sheraton because of the 'wonderful proportions used in his designs and the perfection of his structure. Sheraton, by the way, is credited with having made the first twin beds, and roll-top desk. He was also the first to make secret compartments in secretaries, desks, cabinets, and sideboards. My _ third choice was Colonial, as it is so homelike and refined. Fortunately, my husband liked the same styles, and told me to go ahead and choose the furniture for our apartment. Our living room was difficult to arrange. It was long and somewhat narrow, finishing off in a triangular end on Riverside Drive, overlooking the Hudson. The west wall was the long wall, so Miss Gheen suggested 320 The carved mahogany posts of the Sheraton bed are very effective against the chintz draperies. The side tables are also mahogany. 'The lamps are made from old bronze ums. The filet lace spread has been used on this bed for twenty-five years. For the center a long walnut Louis XVI sofa, which we found in a cabinetmaker's shop downtown. Then we found a pair of small mahogany two-shelf bookcases with white marble tops finished with a decorative brass gallery about one inch high. In addition a love seat, a kidney-shaped table, and a pair of carved bergere chairs, similar in feeling to the sofa, which we secured after considerable searching, made a good foundation for the room. Just at this time we were invited to take a motor trip with friends through New England. Such a trip is one of the most delightful in the world, up through Boston, visiting all the historic spots. The dignified New England houses reminded us of what the Puritans had done. The magnificent trees made us feel as if we had no need for houses. Maples, chestnuts, elms, and beeches arched RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 over the highway in the villages andtowns, and covered the hills out in the country in the distance. And yet when night came, with its crisp autumn air, the sheltering roof of the inn was appreciated and the crackling logs in the fireplace drew our thoughts toward home. The inns were usually furnished with Early American or Colonial furniture. 'The walls were often of fine boards with little or no decoration. The windows were curtained with cretonnes and fish nets. Interesting old Bible boxes and pewter picces gave the atmosphere of olden days. The floors were made of wide pine boards often covered with hooked rugs. Sitting comfortably in these inns we could get the effect of the furniture and were able to make up our minds as to whether or not we liked it. As we drove to the various towns, we became very fond of it. We stopped to shop in the quaint stores. Our business soon took us to London. There we were introduced into many pleasant English homes. We shopped in Picadilly Circus where everything was so different from the skyscrapers of New York. Old things were on every side of us, offices, shops, and churches. The people were cheery and industrious, going about their business in fog and cold and acting as if it were a pleasant summer day. It was exciting to wander about in the streets, thinking of the history of the great city. We visited St. Paul's Cathedral which was rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren after the great fire in London. He was a great lover of furniture as well as an architect and did much to make living conditions better for the CONCERNING ANTIQUE FURNITURE 321 A Louis XVI commode is the center of attraction in this group, although the painting, bergere chair (at right) and occasional chair (at left) all have appeal. People generally. By this time we had decided to use furniture in the Sheraton style for our bedroom and other English pieces in' the dining room. One day while shopping in a little side street, we found a shop which had a grandfather's clock which had been made by Thomas Fletcher of Leeds. The dealer also had a Sheraton four poster bed with a canopy which we liked very much. Both pieces were accepted by the custom officials as being over 100 years old so they could enter the United States duty free as works of art. We bought the pieces and asked to have them sent to New York. It was interesting to watch the dealer pack them. First, he took off the pendulum of the clock, then lifted off the old iron weights that worked the hands of the clock and the striker. Next his men wrapped the case in paper and heavy packing straw and crated it, with the weights and pendulum also carefully wrapped. Then the men unhooked the draperies from the bed, unscrewed the canopy, and laid them in a neat pile, lifted off the box springs and mattress (which we did not buy), unscrewed the beautiful mahogany front posts carved in a laurelleaf pattern, and unbolted the heavy back posts-and backboard. The carved posts were wrapped like the clock, then were crated with all the other -pieces. Both clock and bed went down without complaint, and undismayed by the long journey to a strange land seemed to say: "Cheerio, old dears, we'll. See you in New York.", We went to Paris in April. The 322 The inlaid walnut dressing table is lighted by old-fashioned china lamps made from a pair of vases. The mirrors on the wall are green Venetian glass with etched figures. Sycamores were just putting forth their pale green leaves; there was sunshine and rain; and the whole world seemed enchanted. Paris was a happy place in those days. The poilus were back from the war and nothing else mattered. The museums were open and afforded us endless delight. The shops too were among the most beautiful we had ever seen. Along the boulevards near the opera house was displayed furniture of nearly all French types; but we still preferred Louis XVI for its quiet grace. 'There were several pieces that suited us exactly, so we purchased them. One was a simple commode beautifully inlaid with various designs, completed by a marble top. Another was an attractive mirror mounted in a carved and painted wooden frame, which looked lovely with a pair of brass candelabra decorated with rock-crystal flowers. Another RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 piece that we found was a little inlaid walnut dressing table, with folding leaves on each side of a small attached mirror. It had to be reconditioned. The dealer agreed to do this before we bought it. It was astonishing what a miracle he worked with a little glue, fine sandpaper, wood filler, stain, and furniture polish. This little table was shipped to New York with the rest of the things and has since traveled thousands of miles. It now reposes quietly in my room still doing its duty. Modern furniture makers say it's ""Goodbye, Mr. Chippendale," but I cannot agree. Somehow there grows up an irreplaceable affection and respect for an antique that has weathered the buffetings of family life for fifty years Or more. Before you begin your search for furniture, check over everything at your mother's, your grandmother's and your uncles' and aunts'. Often they have lovely old pieces that they have finished with. One of my most treasured possessions is a small rectangular mirror in a lustre plaster frame. It crossed the plains with my grandmother nearly a hundred years ago and although somewhat mottled still gives back our reflections today. I prize also the rag rugs made twentyfive years ago by the Relief Society of which my mother was president. Used and washed these many years, they have taken on the soft colorings of great paintings and are still giving remarkable service as did the loving hands that made them. Well, here's wishing you luck with your furniture and "Happy Landing" or shall I say "Happy Finding?" As ever yours, Adele Cannon Howells Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon H L. MENCKEN wriites of wom- * an's accurate perception of reality, of how she sees through the externals and comes to grips at once with the essentials of a problem. If this is true, today's world offers plenty of problems to challenge her deepest powers. In America, for instance, the delinquency of girls under twenty-one increased in 1942 fifty-five per cent over the 1941 record. PEFORE Pearl Harbor, one out of 'e every hundred wage earners in America was a woman. Now the proportion is higher than one in ten. EMBERS of the Women's Parachute First Aid Emergency Corps are now making leaps from their planes, after a year's preliminary training. HROUGH a group of senators, American women are asking for a constitutional amendment granting them equal rights with men. So far, Russia is the only country in the world where women have full equality with men. In America there are still more than a thousand common law discriminations against women. Individual states, too, make and unmake laws. Women are asking for equal pay with men for equal work, and for equal control with men over property, children, and inheritance. N the worst days of the London raids, Myra Hess, humanitarian and noted pianist, organized lunchtime concerts for workers in the National Gallery. The effect was so heartening that now string orchestras play week days in churches and cathedrals, chamber music is heard in school auditoriums, and many clubs for the advancement of music and the other arts are being founded throughout England. ILKA TERNINA, famous Croatian soprano, died recently in Zagreb, Jugoslavia. In the Metropolitan, she introduced the role of Tosca to America. Many say no one else has ever sung that role as well. She was also famous for her Wagnerian roles. AUL Revere and the World He Lived In by Esther Forbes is one of the Book-of-the-Month Club's choice of the ten best nonfiction books of 1942. ANOTHER field has been opened to women students at Cornell University with the inauguration of a map-making course for them. The course includes both lecture and laboratory work. Page 323 EDITORIAL cm9 Vol. 30 3th Annual Conference Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants, it is expedient in me that the elders of my Church should be called together, from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south, by letter or some other way. And it shall come, to pass, that inasmuch as they are faithful, and exercise faith in me, I will pour out my Spirit upon them in the day that they assemble themselves together. And it shall come to pass that they shall go forth into the regions round about, and preach repentance unto the people. THE 113th annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held on April 4, 5, and 6, 1943. Once again, as at the two previous conferences because of the war, attendance was restricted to men holding certain callings in the Church, including some who formerly held them. Latter-day Saint soldiers holding the Melchizedek Priesthood who were free to attend were also invited to be present at the sessions, two of which were held on Sunday, three on Monday, and the final one on Tuesday morning. At the Sunday morning session, in addition to the usual Sunday morning Tabernacle Choir broadcast, the Church of the Air Address was delivered by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve on the subject, "Blessed is the Nation Whose God is the Lord." The hearts of all those present in the tabernacle as well as the thousands of listeners over radio station KSL were touched and made to rejoice by the moving and beautiful statement of President Grant which was read by President David O. McKay at the opening of the conference sessions, Excerpts from this sermon Page 324 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 44. And those made by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And President David O.- McKay are printed in this issue of the Magazine in the article by Elder Bryant S. Hinckley. 'The first and last sessions of the conference were broadcast over radio station KSL. Inspiring addresses were delivered and counsel given which will be heeded by all true Latter-day Saints. Church members were urged to obey the commandments of the Lord, to live lives of purity, to be loyal to Church leadership, and to render unselfish service to one another. As at the conference last October, saints residing in Salt Lake City opened their homes to house the conference brethren visitors. 'This condition was reminiscent of earlier days in the valley, when conference visitors were welcomed into Salt Lake homes and their visits were eagerly anticipated for many months. Such hospitality tends to strengthen the bond of fellowship in the Church. Conferences have ever been an integral part of Church procedure. On June 9, 1830, little more than two months after the Church was organized, the first conference as an organized Church was held at Fayette, New York. MAY 1943 No. 5 EDITORIAL The Prophet Joseph wrote of this conference: Our members were about thirty, besides whom many assembled with us who were either believers or anxious to learn.... Much exhortation and instruction was given, and the Holy Ghost was poured out upon us in a miraculous manner.... Such scenes as these were calculated to inspire our hearts with joy unspeakable, and fill us with awe and reverence for that Almighty Being, by whose grace we had been called to be instrumental in bringing about, for the children of men, the enjoyment of such glorious blessings that were now at this time poured out upon us. From that June day of 1830 until the present, conferences of the Church have been held, usually open to the general membership but at times restricted to the Priesthood. A review of the places where conferences have been held would recall 325 the scenes made memorable in Church history. As at the first,. So at the 113th conference, "glorious blessings were now at this time poured out upon us." Present at the last conference were the most powerful men now living upon the earth. At the head sat the Prophet of the Lord who holds the keys to powers pertaining to this earth and the heavens. When all earthly powers and principalities will have passed away, the power of the Priesthood will remain throughout the eternities. Church' members have ever rejoiced at the privilege of attending general conferences and longingly look forward to the day when conditions will once more permit general gatherings of the saints at general conferences, there to be fed the bread of lifeM. C. S. = Memorial Semple to GYefferson GREAT marble shrine to Thomas Jefferson was dedicated by President Roosevelt on April 13, 1943, the 200th anniversary of the birth of Jefferson. The memorial is situated on the south bank of the Tidal Basin in Washington, D. C. It is fitting that at this time the freedom-loving patriot, Thomas Jefferson, should be honoredThomas Jefferson who wrote in 1800, "I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man." Jefferson was one of the great modern liberals; he was the first American statesman to make education by the State a fundamental article of democratic faith; he wrote the first statute of religious freedom; he refused to be elected as president for the third time although requested by the legislatures of five States to be a candidate, and thus helped to establish a precedent which he believed to be of great importance under a democratic government; and he was the writer of the immortal Declaration of Independence. Abraham Lincoln said, "The principles of Jefferson are the axioms of a free Society." "The range of his interestsin geography, geology, botany, zoology, ethnology, agriculture, plantation, medicine and surgery, mathematics, 326 aeronautics, invention, government, education [music], languages and literature, religionis astounding." He compiled from the New Testament a book of Jesus' teachings known as Jefferson's Bible. He never used tobacco, never gambled, never played cards, nor was party to a personal quarrel. He was only truly happy in the country and was buried on his country estateMonticello, in Virginia, where he lies under a plain stone monument for which he chose the epitaph: "Here was buried Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of the American IndependRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 ence, of the statute of Virginia for religious freedom, and father of the University of Virginia." The memorial temple, 176 feet in height, is circular and built in a modified form of the Roman Pantheon, with twenty-six [onic columns topped by a white dome. A nineteenfoot plaster statue of Jefferson to be cast in bronze after the war, stands in the interior between two American flags. 'The memorial completes the fourth point of a cross formed by the Capitol, White House, and Lincoln Memorial, with the Washington Monument in the center and the axis formed by the Mall. <~f Agnes Mm Bolto Appointed to Relief Society General Board PPOINTMENT by the First Presidency of Agnes M. Bolto as a member of the Relief Society General Board was announced Wednesday, May 5, 1943, by President Amy Brown Lyman. At the time of her appointment to the General Board, Mrs. Bolto was president of the Granite Stake Relief Society. Her testimony of the Gospel, her long years of excellent service in Relief Society together with her native endowments and specialized training, will qualify her for her new position as a member of the General Board. Her many friends will be pleased to learn of this appointment, and her new associates on the General Board welcome her as a valued fellow Board member. A short biographical sketch of Mrs. Bolto will appear in the June issue of the Magazine. A FREE PEOPLE Rose Adeana Openshaw Oh may that span and scope be reached Where captives cease to be! Oh may we conquer weakness and Indeed be people free! VYlotesd 10 THE FIELD Ussiting Seaching HE month of May concludes the 1942-43 Relief Society educational season. During the four summer months, June through September, no regular classwork is conducted, but the monthly work-andbusiness meeting and monthly visits by the visiting teachers should be continued as usual. As was indicated at the Relief Society general conference in October 1940, and included in Blue Bulletin No. 26, June 24, 1942, arrangements may be made for each visiting teacher to have one month free during the summer, if desired, by using substitute teachers or by having teachers go singly one or two months, as necessary. During the summer, visiting teachers may visit without discussing a uniform topic, or may take into the homes any special messages provided by the stake or ward. Where the stake or ward has no special message to present, visiting teachers desiring subjects suitable for discussion in the home are referred to The Relief Society Magazine. Such articles as the following might appropriately be used: "The Promise of the Gospel in Helping Us To Meet Present-Day Crises," President David O. McKay, March 1942, page 162; "Family Prayer," Ray R. McKay, April 1942, page 254; "Preserving Our Homes In Wartime," Mark K. Allen, July 1942, page 453; "Mental Health Through Recreation," Mark K. Allen, November 1942, page 770; "Brotherhood," Elder Harold B. Lee, February 1943, page 84; "Radio Address," President Amy Brown Lyman, April 1943, page 236. Visits of visiting teachers should be friendly and short, and timed as opportunely for the women in the home as possible. Ifa woman is very busy, it is recommended that visiting teachers merely inquire as to the well-being of the family, extend an invitation to Relief Society meetings or other functions to be held during the month, deliver very briefly any necessary message, and then leave, stating that they will spend more time on their next visit when she may not be so busy. Visiting teachers are cautioned about repeating startling statements that cannot be verified, or discussing sensational subjects based on rumor. All topics discussed in the home should be based on authentic information, and should be helpful and encouraging. This not only makes the visit more profitable, but makes the visiting teachers more welcome in the home. The recommendations of the General Board regarding visiting teaching requiring automotive transportation, issued early in 1942 and effective during the period while there is limitation of automotive travel, are repeated here: 1. That visiting teaching be continued as usual where districts are within walking distance; 2. That where districts are scattered such districts be sub-divided, wherever practicable to do so, so that a smaller number of families may be visited by perhaps only one visiting teacher who lives in the neighborPage 327 328 hood and is within walking distance of the families in such smaller districts; 3. That where distances make it impracticable for visits to be made, the unvisited members take their contributions to the regular Relief Society meetings; 4. That those stakes which print leaflets for visiting teachers to distribute in the homes might send such leaflets by mail to unvisited families, or that such families might be called by telephone where this service is available, but that such communications should: not be counted as actual visits. Directions for keeping track of communications which are made in lieu of regular visits are given in the instructions in the back of the new visiting teachers' report books, under the heading '""Communications in Lieu of Visits." One of the important duties of visiting teachers is to acquaint Latterday Saint women with the Relief Society program and to encourage participation in Relief Society activities. This is particularly important this year in areas where defense and war work have caused an influx of workers into the community, many of whom are Latter-day Saints and need to be brought actively into the work of the Society. Recent surveys have been made under the direction of ward bishops to identify new families living in their respective wards. 'The General Board recommends that Relief Society officers cooperate fully with their bishops in identifying and welcoming the Salvage VERY woman is anxious to do all in her power to help win the war and bring about peace. One effective way in which women may contribute to the war effort is to salvage materials that are so critically neededhousehold fats, tin cans and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 newcomers and in enlisting them as active members. Relief Society presidents are urged to procure from their bishops the names of new Latter-day Saint families to be added to the regular visiting-teacher list. When visiting these new families, special effort should be made to acquaint them with various Relief Society and other ward activities and to make them feel welcome. It is also suggested that visiting teachers notify the ward president, who in turn would notify the bishop, of any new Latter-day Saint families coming to their attention when making their regular visits. 'The opportunity Relief Society has for contacting the wives in the new households in every ward constitutes one of the most important points of beginning in the entire Church program in the interest of new families moving into various communities because of defense work.; Relief Society visiting teachers hold an important position in the Relief Society organization. The effectiveness of their work is dependent upon their understanding of their duties and responsibilities, and the spirit and diligence with which they meet these responsibilities. 'The General Board sincerely appreciates the splendid efforts of Relief Society visiting teachers. Program metals of any kind, silk and nylon hose, unusable clean cloth of all kinds, fur, and old and broken phonograph records. Depots have been arranged at stores for collection of fats, hosiery, and phonograph records. Local sal- NOTES TO THE FIELD vage committees arrange for periodic collection of other items. A small payment is made for fats and phonograph records which are turned in. It is suggested that some local Relief Societies may wish to handle collection of old or broken phonograph records from their members or others in the community, as a means of adding funds to their treasury while at the same time making available for use the valuable shellac for which the records are salvaged. ~ Information as to the collection of these various items may be _ obtained 329 from your local salvage committee. The demand for these materials is becoming greater each day the war goes on, and to meet the demand the aid of every individual on the home front is solicited. The Relief Society desires its members throughout the United States to cooperate fully with their respective salvage committees by announcing in Relief Society meetings the collections which are conducted from time to time by their local salvage committees, and by individually supporting the various salvage collections as they are conducted. Summer Program of Primary Association HE Relief Society General Board commends the Primary Association upon the splendid program it is conducting for children, particularly during the summer months when children are not in school and have time on their hands, and when they are working in fields and orchards and need the relaxation that comes from directed play or other activities. 'The program for the current summer quarter features profitable activities of many types, each ward being allowed to select the acPamphlet Available, tivies best suited to its needs. Children as well as adults are affected by war conditions. During war periods it is particularly important that they be given opportunity to participate in interesting, profitable, well-directed activities such as the Primary Association provides. The General Board. Recommends that Relief Society women wholeheartedly support the Primary program, and that they use their influence to have children attend regularly. 'How FRO) Vin on the Home Front ' HE General Board has on hand, T through arrangements made by the National Council of Women, a quantity of pamphlets entitled "How to Win on the Home Front," issued in 1942 by the Public Affairs Committee, Incorporated. The pamphlet contains valuable information for the homemaker during wartime on such important subjects as: Scarcity, Higher Prices, Poorer Quality; The Rules of WarRationing, Quality and Standards, Credit Control, Taxes and War Bonds; Home Front StrategyA Plan of Action, Budgeting for Health, Stretching the 330 Food Dollar, Clothing and Miscellaneous Items, Housing Upkeep, and Going Places and Doing Things. Relief Societies desiring to do so may use this pamphlet as the basis for discussions in summer work-and-business meetings. The information contained in this pamphlet has been obtained largely from the publications of the Bureau of Home Economics of the Department of Agriculture, the Consumers' Guide, and Consumer Tips of the Consumers' Counsel of the Department of Agriculture, and official releases of the Office of Price Administration. Information on taxes and savings came from the United States Treasury. Due to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 the necessity of changes in rationing and the government price control program, some of the information on these subjects is not now current. Nevertheless, the pamphlet contains much valuable information. Although first made available at ten cents each, a limited supply of these pamphlets has been made available to Relief Society without charge. As long as the supply lasts, the General Board will meet requests for copies from Relief Society officers or members. Address requests to the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Potitions on Informative Labeling N Blue Bulletin No. 29, issued December 29, 1942, the General Board suggested that all Relief Societies in the United States cooperate with the National Council of Women in petitioning the Office of Price Administration to require that goods bear informative labels clearly stating what an article is, of what it is made, what service it will give, and how it should be cared for. Signed petitions were to be sent to the National Council. The Relief Society is highly commended for its efforts in this important matter in a letter recently received by the General Board from Charlotte Payne, Executive Secretary of the National Council. The following quotations are from Miss Payne's letter: You should have had a dozen letters in the past month because each mail has brought such enthusiastic response to the request for signatures on the petitions that we just beam at the very mention ofthe Relief Society! I think that a fair estimate of the number of signatures which we have had from your wards would be about 9,000 covering 33 states with almost 5,000 from Utah alone. We cannot tell you how proud and pleased we are with this evidence of your interest and cooperation. You know that we plan to present the petitions to Mr. Prentiss Brown. Meanwhile, our efforts along this line have already produced results. The recent stocking regulation is the first one in which informative labeling is a part of the requirement. Miss Payne further states that when a meeting is arranged with Mr. Brown, a Relief Society representative will accompany the group. "This," she states, "seems only fair since Relief Society has taken so active a part." Informative Labeling of Hosiery This article, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, is of special interest to Relief Society women since it deals with the regulation on stockingsthe first regulation of goods in which informative labeling is a part of the requirement. Relief Society women, in cooperation with the National Council of Women, recently petitioned the Office of Price Administration to require that goods bear informative labels. HE new OPA "dollars and cents" ceiling price regulation for rayon hose, effective April 15, reduces the amount American women wil] have to pay for their stockings from 5 to 40 cents per pair. The total amount women will save on their hosiery purchases during 1943 is about 15 per cent and will amount to an estimated 50 million dollars on their hosiery bill in a single year. A feature of the new regulation of particular interest to Relief Society members and others familiar with grades and standards for consumer goods is the provision which requires manufacturers to make their hose according to grade specifications and to label the hose accordingly if they wish to receive the maximum price. Grade "A" hosiery will contain features designed to lengthen the life and improve service, such as reinforcements in the foot and top and a minimum number of inches of stitches in the leg to prevent "skimpy' construction. All stockings which fail to meet the OPA standards for Grade "A" will be classified and must be labeled as Grade "B," irregulars, seconds, or thirds, and will be sold at proportionately lower prices. The ceiling prices vary from 12 cents for the cheapest construction of seamless "thirds" to as high as $1.43 for the most expensive continuous filament full-fashioned rayon. After the present stocks of hose in the hands of merchants are exhausted, stockings will appear on merchants' shelves with the grade labels marked on the hose at the factory. The new regulation recognizes that the methods of operation and wholesale costs vary between stores, and that, consequently, the operating costs are different. Accordingly, two ceiling prices are established for each hose, depending on the "class" of store in which the sale is made. Following are typical ceiling prices: 51 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 3 cents or $1.05 45 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 81 cents or 92 cents 42 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 75 cents or 84 cents 340 Needle Bare-leg ceiling price either 47 cents or 53 cents In announcing the price ceilings, OPA has emphasized that faullfashioned hosiery is still in its infancy and that rayon as material for fullfashioned hose was largely experimental as recently as 1941. Studies are continuing to determine if the standards of rayon hose can be further improved and prices will be adjusted either upward or downward whenever experience proves this to be necessary. In establishing the standards and prices, OPA held extensive meetings with representatives of the hosiery industry, labor, retailers, consumer groups, and technical experts of the OPA and War Production Board as well as other standardization agencies in order to secure the best advice available in the country. Page 33] Care of Children In Wartime HE General Board, aware of the many problems confronting mothers today, particularly that of safeguarding children, publishes the following letter from Katharine F. Lenroot, Chief, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor. We, along with other churches, law-enforcement agencies, and public and private welfare agencies, are greatly concerned over the alarming increase of juvenile delinquency throughout the country. We are particularly concerned because many L. D. S. Youths are among the juvenile offenders. Church auxiliary organizations have announced special programs designed to interest our children and youth and profitably direct their activities. 'The Primary Association will conduct an excellent summer program, including both work and play activities. 'The Y. W. M. LA. Plans to conduct a summer program for 20,000 BeeHive girls, directed toward effective war service work. These programs Dear Mothers and Fathers: merit the full support of mothers or the Church. However, the task of properly caring for and directing children cannot be left to Church auxiliaries; it devolves primarily upon parents. 'The General Board urges mothers throughout the Church to place every possible safeguard about their children. An evil influence is abroad which threatens even the best homes. Social problems, greatly aggravated by the war, demand vigilance on the part of mothers. There is no substitute for mothers in the home, and they should not leave the home to earn money unless real necessity demands it and unless proper provision is made for children while the mother is away. Parents should also make sure that both boys and girls who leave home to take employment are satisfactorily located in homes with interested relatives or other responsible adults, where they may be properly supervised. May 1, 1943 Have you been wondering whether you are doing everything you can for your children during this war period?... If ever children needed mothering and fathering, they need it now.... Your Johnny and Jane know lots of things are different at home today. There will be more changes tomorrow. Both for you and for them many of these changes are hard to take. But with you there, throwing your confidence and pluck and affection around Johnny and Jane, they'll not be hurt. These are the foods your children grow on, just as much as the bread they eat. They need such food every A child's spirit can be undernourished as well as his body. Day of their growing lives. Your faith, and your courage, and your love are Grade A foods for your child's spirit. There are no others as good. Of course it takes time to give children that quality of care. Just as you willingly give the time it taks to provide the carrots, milk, and other Page 332 CHILDREN IN WARTIME 333 foods you give your child, you'll be glad later for the extra time you spend now in giving him affectionate guidance. Behind many a youngster in trouble is a parent overburdened with work, who thought he or she was too busy for children. Because the job you are doing is so tremendously vital to the Nation, a Children's Bureau Commission on Children in Wartime is helping our Bureau to help you in every way we can. Millions of you parents, during war, will have no choice but to yield to someone else some part of the place you have in your children's lives. Some fathers must go to war. Some mothers must leave home to work. To those of you who must, the doctors say: Keep the channels of affection and the lines of communication to your children as wide open as you can. If Dad must be away from home altogether, try to put your children in touch with some other male relative who will keep an affectionate eye on your charges. Group activities, directed by men in the neighborhood or in school or church, will help your young ones without changing their loyalty and affection for their fathers. And when Dad leaves be sure that, if possible, the letters keep coming back home. Fathers who are at home can help mightily, too, if they will take time to spread their companionship to neighbors' children who must wait until war is over to welcome home their own fathers. And you, Mother. If you are one of the millions of mothers who do your war job of caring for your children at home, maybe you can give some of yourself to the children of other mothers, too. Perhaps you can help at the baby clinic, or with school lunches, or on playgrounds.... If you are a mother who must earn money away from home, get the best possible substitutes you can for the care you would otherwise provide. If you can't find or can't afford someone to come into your home, use every help your community provides for children. If you don't know what they are, yout local defense council will be glad to give you suggestions. Last but not least, especially watch over your older boys and girls, who are having to grow up so fast. 'They may need to be guarded against overtaxing their strength. They may want your aid in finding ways of helping that will make them feel important in your grownup world. Above all, they deserve the kind of advice that understanding friends give to each other. You see how big a job you fathers and mothers have in your hands right now. It's a war job of the highest priority rating. There are no uniforms to wear to distinguish this public service. No medals will come to you if you do well. But the bearing and grace of your child as he lives his days bravely and with fine spirit will be the match of any medal. Sincerely yours, Katharine F. Lenroot, Chief, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor Planned Strategy for the Garden Pests Hazel D. Moyle Garden Editor, The Deseret News FTER the spring planting has all been done and the garden has begun to put out fresh new growth, then trouble usually creeps in like the proverbial villain in the play, to try the heart and spirit of the home gardener. All during the hopeful spring planning and planting season the garden pests have lain in wait until some choice favorite plant would be spreading its beautiful green leaves, perhaps even showing a few promising buds. Only then do the exasperating insects attack like some vile thief in the night, and they often do great damage before the unsuspecting gardenmaker discovers their presence. Every home gardener must anticipate this annual invasion, for seldom do gardens escape being attacked by one or another of the common garden pests. 'There is no use. To wring one's hands and lament the matter, we must meet such a common emergency with a fighting spirit. We must be prepared with a planned program of defense by having modern spray equipment ready and waiting to drive the invaders out as soon as they appear. We must arm ourselves with the wherewithall for making a fighting stand, for preparedness and perseverance are two-thirds of the battle in fighting these troublemakers. Page 334 Most of these common garden pests come under one of three types: there are the chewing insects, the sucking kinds, and the fungous spores and other plant diseases. If you suddenly discover some plant is being eaten, either the foliage, buds, or tender stems, then you can be sure that you are entertaining one of the chewers (and these come in many fancy sizes, shapes, and forms). The cure for this type of pest is poison spread over the entire plant, foliage, buds, and stems, so that no matter where Mr. Bug next chooses to dine, he will find a dose sufficient to stop his career of crime. This can be applied by means of either a liquid spray or in powder form, spreading the powder with a dusting gun. Arsenate of lead is the chemical usually employed in most spray preparations for control of the chewers, although pyrethrum and Paris green are also used. The sucking insects present a different problem for they do not eat the foliage, but thrust a long proboscis or beak into the tender juicy new growth and suck out the very life blood of the plant, its sap, causing it to wither and often even die. The suckers are usually very small, the commonest being the plant aphis, stealthy creatures of great ingenuity who congregate on the underside of the leaves, the stems, and in the crevices. These mild-appearing but PLANNED STRATEGY FOR THE GARDEN PESTS murderous small insects increase at such an alarming rate that unless something is done to control them, they often completely ruin an entire year's crop. But the poison spray which is so effective against the chewing insects is useless in fighting this type. Instead of poisoning them, we must apply a product which will kill them by suffocating them with poison fumes. Nicotine is the usual cure, and it too is available in either liquid or powder form and under many different trade names. The fungous diseases require dusting with sulphur or copper to control bacteria or fungous growth such as mildew, the plant disease which so often attacks roses, and other plants, spreading its gray powdery mass over foliage and stems, causing disfigurement. Fortunately for the home gardener, there are now several preparations which contain all three of these different types of insecticides so that one can use one spray for the control of all garden pests. 'This is the most practical method for the amateur, and the one which gives best results. Reliable nurserymen can supply such all-purpose sprays that will do the trick if they are used early in the season, and even before the pests have made their appearance. It is the same old story of an ounce of prevention being worth a pound of cure. If a spraying or dusting program is carried out at regular intervals during the year, it is quite possible to keep any garden free from insect damage. But the gardener must apply the remedy thoroughly and early, followed by other applications, especially in the case of the sucking types. 335 The dusting gun is most popular with many gardeners because this is so easily used, and this should be equipped with a long extension rod so that the dust may be applied from the ground upward to reach the underside as well as the upper leaves. The dust spreads out in a cloud, reaching more surface than the liquid spray. Such a dusting gun can be purchased for the sum of one dollar. Here are a few rules to help the gardener to have a pest-free garden: 1. Keep the garden well raked and tidy; many pests live and hide underneath old trash, boards, or wood left lying about. 2. Purchase rust-proof and _ wilt-proof seeds of many annuals and vegetables as offered in catalogues. 3. Do not crowd the plantings, but allow plenty of air between plants. 4. Rotate the different crops each season; certain pests attack only certain crops, and by moving crops about the diseases. Or insects that live over in the soil will be avoided.. Do not water roses in late afternoon or night, this encourages mildew. 6. Keep out of the garden when plants are wet, for mildew and other fungi will cling to clothing and be spread when wet. 7. Cultivate the surface regularly, this destroys many pests. Wi HERE are a few other common "plant and garden pests which require other methods, the commonest being the grasshopper which has been so troublesome of recent years. This pest is best handled by spreading a poisoned bait, a new product called Bug-Geta being easily used to fight not only grasshoppers, but cutworms, sowbugsthe small flat creeper which rolls itself up into a round ball when disturbedsnails, slugs, and weevils. 336 The lover of gladioli should also be well prepared with a spray to use in the control of thrips, the insect which causes such havoc in this beautiful flower. One can do much to fight this pest by soaking the bulbs for eight to ten hours in a solution of one quart warm water to one teaspoonful of lysol, just before planting. But in addition, one must spray with a solution made by mixing one heaping tablespoon of Paris green, two pounds of brown sugar or any sweet syrup, and three gallons of water. 'This spray should be used as soon as the leaves are about six inches high, and followed by two other sprayings a week apart. This will md any planting of this pest which so often ruins whole crops of flowers. Does all this seem a melancholy and distasteful business to one who starts out. To make beauty, and to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 grow pleasant and delicious vegetables? We admit that it is not the most enjoyable of the many garden jobs, but our complex modern life has brought pests from countries far and wide into our gardens, and only by taking a sensible attitude and by equipping ourselves to cope with them can we hope to escape pest troubles. Let us cheerfully include these few simple tasks as a regular part of successful gardening, just as weeding and watering are a necessary part of its upkeep. We can promise that the gardener will be well repaid for such efforts, especially if she will begin the program of dusting or spraying early before the pests have established themselves. We can well apply that old axioman ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure and the rewards are great. BOUND VOLUMES HOSE desiring to have their 1942 issues of the Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board. If Magazines are furnished with the order, the cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.50, and the cost of leather binding, including index, is $2. There will be an additional charge of $1 if Magazines are furnished by this office. Those desiring to bind Magazines themselves may purchase materials through this office. A package containing enough material to bind 12 books sells for $3.50; these packages will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. Indexes will be furnished free of charge upon request. Address all orders to Relief Society General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake Citv Utah. A FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes from the Field" appear Centennial reports from wards, stakes, and missions were concluded in the March issue of the Magazine which carried the announcement that no further centennial reports would be printed in '"'Notes from the Field." However, those centennial reports which featured Relief Society choruses were held for this issue of "Notes" relating to Singing Mothers. Included at the end of this month's "Notes" is one general report of a centennial observance which arrived too late for inclusion in the March issue, but before announcement was off the press that no further entries would be published. Relicf Society Singing Mothers Salt Lake Stake (Utah) A! The sacrament service on Sunday evening, May 24, 1942, in the Seventeenth Ward, the Relief Society Singing Mothers' chorus, under the direction of Ethelwynne Dalby, with Eva May Bettridge as accompanist, presented the following musical numbers: "O Morn of Beauty" Chorale from "Finlandia"...... Sibelius-Matthews "The Lord's Prayer'.... Forsyth-Dews "Forget Me Not"............ Bach-Kraft "My Heart Is A Silent Violin'"'........ I Seen Fox-Andrews "Spirit of God"'........Baines "One Sweetly Solemn Thought"'...... RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, SEVENTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE STAKE Page 337 in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420. 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943 ROOSEVELT STAKE CHORUS OF SINGING MOTHERS "Peace I Leave With You"............ Ae Roberts-Spicker Quartet"The Lord is My Shepherd"... Franz Schubert by four members of the chorus: Lanie Kate Henderson, Lela Cushing, Harriet Hollingshead, and Geraldine Smith Ileen Bagley, another member, sang a contralto solo"I Come to Thee" At this meeting a new Relief Society presidency was sustained in the ward, the former president, Hannah Sessions Burningham, having passed away March 27, 1942. Marjorie Mathews Ward is the new president. The Honorable Elbert D. Thomas, Utah's senior United States Senator, who is a member of the Seventeenth Ward, was in attendance at the meeting and bore a fervent testimony.
Roosevelt Stake (Utah)
THE Relief Society Singing Mothers of Roosevelt Stake presented the following concert, April 17, 1942, as a hospital benefit:
"Forget Me Not"........................Bach "23rd Psalm"...........................Schubert "Love's Dream"........................Liszt "The Kerry Dance".....................Molloy "O Winds Blow Ye Softly"..............Mozart "My Heart is a Silent Violin"..........Fox "Will You Remember"....................Romberg
This concert was directed by Geneva E. Wright and accompanied by La Verne Heiner. This chorus has also sung at special chapel dedicatory services and at stake quarterly conference sessions. The accompanying picture was taken at the time of the quarterly conference held at Roosevelt, Utah, April 25-26.
Twin Falls Stake (Idaho)
BERTHA BROWN, chorister of the Twin Falls Second Ward Relief Society, sent the following report of the Singing Mothers' chorus of this ward, which she directs, with Vera Bates and Myrtle Debble as organists.
"During Easter week, 1942, our chorus gave a fine presentation of
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS OF TWIN FALLS SECOND WARD (Four members were absent when picture was taken)
Erma Evans, standing at left, gave the scriptural readings in connection with the cantata, "Resurrection Morning," presented during Easter Week, 1942, and Edith Corless, standing right, was soloist.
Cecil Gates' cantata, 'Resurrection Morning.' The chorus has also appeared on various other programs.
"Please note from the accompanying picture the many young women in this group, all of whom are deeply
YELLOWSTONE STAKE CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS
Submitted by Ruby Johnson, stake chorister. Seated with the chorus are members of the Relief Society stake board, including President Mary B. Blanchard and the stake presidency, Elders Horace Hess, E. Glenn Cameron, and A. E. Archibald.
340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
CACHE STAKE CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS
interested in Relief Society work. We feel the chorus has done much to increase our attendance at Relief Society meetings and has provided a contact with the Church for several of our members. We meet twice a month during the summer and have our socials in connection with our practices.
"We feel that every ward without a mothers' chorus is missing a privilege to do missionary work."
Cache Stake (Utah)
MARY M. WEST, president of Cache Stake Relief Society, submitted the following report and accompanying picture of the stake Singing Mothers' chorus:
"The Cache Stake is justly proud of its Singing Mothers' chorus. It was one of the first to be organized and from its beginning has been very active under the able leadership of stake chorister Mae McMurrin, who has the love and support of the seventy-five or more members. It is surprising to note the progress made by these fine women. Maturity of voice and unity of spirit are largely responsible for the success of this group.
"This chorus has presented several sacred cantatas in our stake tabernacle, and has also sung beautiful hymns and anthems at our stake quarterly conferences.
"It would be impossible to estimate the amount of good this fine organization has done, not only in the homes of those who take part, but also in the inspiration and joy they have given to the community. This service is a wonderful experience for our Singing Mothers."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 341
SINGING MOTHERS OF MARICOPA STAKE, CENTENNIAL PROGRAM, MARCH 15, 1942
Kanab Stake (Utah)
HELENA B. WATSON, chorister of Kanab Stake Relief Society, submitted the following report of the Kanab stake chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers:
"Our group has presented B. Cecil Gates' cantata, 'Resurrection Morning.' We have given the music at several of our stake and ward conferences beside being active in special programs and funerals.
"Our mothers enjoy this part of our Relief Society program a great deal and will be happy when the tire situation will permit us to once again join as a large group instead of being limited to ward choruses."
CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, KANAB STAKE
342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
IDAHO FALLS STAKE CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS
Shown with the chorus are Director Sue Christensen, Organist Emily Heileson, Pianist Eileen Weaver, and Stake Relief Society President Cora Christensen.
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
CORA M. CHRISTENSEN, president of the Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of this stake. This chorus presented B. Cecil Gates' cantata "Resurrection Morning" to large audiences, on the evenings of
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS OF KIRTLAND WARD,
March 15 and 16, 1942, in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of Relief Society, with Sue Christensen as director, Emily Heileson as organist, and Eileen Weaver as pianist. This cantata was later repeated by request as a feature of the local celebration of National Music Week which was observed in May.
YOUNG STAKE
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 343
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, MERCED BRANCH, FRESNO DISTRICT, OF THE CALIFORNIA MISSION
With Mabel de St. Jeor as director, and Opal Young as accompanist, were organized about 1935 with a membership of 12. They have entertained over the radio and at several social functions.
Young Stake (New Mexico)
VERGETTA A. COVINGTON, president of the Young Stake Relief Society submitted, in July 1942, the accompanying picture of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Kirtland Ward. This group of Singing Mothers, directed by chorister Dora P. Hatch, under the sponsorship of ward president Hattie D. Foutz, furnished the music during the evening program which completed the observance of the Relief Society centennial in this ward on March 17, 1942.
This chorus has furnished the music at a baccalaureate service and has appeared on other programs in the community. The following excerpts from Sister Covington's letter give other features of the celebration of the Relief Society centennial in the Kirtland Ward, typical of similar celebrations carried out in other wards of the Young Stake:
"We began at 8 a.m. by tuning in on KSL for the inspirational talks of our beloved leaders, President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman.
"At 5 p.m. we witnessed an impressive tree-planting ceremony. The tree, a beautiful blue spruce, had been donated and transported to us by a florist friend from Durango, Colorado, not a member of our Church. At 8 p.m. 150 persons, consisting of Relief Society members, their partners, and ten or twelve guests not of our Church, were seated around candle-lighted tables, decorated in blue and gold. Artistic handpainted booklets entitled 'Rays of Living Light' served as place cards at each plate, which beautifully portrayed the menu, program, and appropriate scriptural quotations. One page was dedicated to our presidency, displaying a snapshot of each accompanied by a loving tribute.
344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, GREENVILLE BRANCH, WEST SOUTH CAROLINA DISTRICT, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION
"Intermingled with the toasts came the recorded voices of our beloved Presidents Heber J. Grant and Amy Brown Lyman falling like a benediction upon our heads.
"After the banquet a two-act play 'Is It Possible?' was presented, followed by social dancing."
Southern States Mission (Headquarters at Atlanta, Georgia)
Mary H. Whitaker, Relief Society president of the Southern States Mission, sent the accompanying picture of the Singing Mothers of the Greenville branch of the West South Carolina District of this mission. At a quarterly conference held May 24 at Greenville, South Carolina, this chorus sang a song written by Fern Parris. Many other local Relief Societies in this mission including several of the larger branches have similar choruses. Relief Society work in this mission is reported to be progressing rapidly.
Mexican Mission (Mexico)
VERA P. ANDERSON, recently released Relief Society president of the Mexican Mission, sent the following report and accompanying picture, September 2, 1942:
"The enclosed photographs are of the Singing Mothers of our Relief Society groups in Monterrey, State of Nuevo Leon, and in San Pedro Martir, D. F. In this mission we have twenty-six Relief Society organizations and each of them has a Singing Mothers' chorus.
"The one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was fittingly observed by each of the organizations in the mission with 'fiestas,' 'Kermeses,' lunches, and plays. In each branch a centennial tree was planted with very impressive and appropriate ceremonies.
"The mission Relief Societies have had a very rapid growth both in number of organizations and members
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 345
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS OF MONTERREY, MEXICO, MEXICAN MISSION, AT FIESTA HELD MARCH 19, 1942, COMMEMORATING THE RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL
enrolled during the past two years. The sisters are fast learning the relationship of the Society to the Church and they are taking their place in caring for the sick and needy. Recently in San Pedro one of the Church members died suddenly and when we arrived at her home three hours after her death, we found the sisters of the Relief Society already there, making the burial clothes and preparing the body for burial."
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS OF SAN PEDRO MARTIR, D. F., MEXICAN MISSION, AT THE TREE PLANTING, MARCH 17, 1942, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL
346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
SETTING OF PLAY "IS IT POSSIBLE?"
Presented at the Gridley Ward Centennial Observance, Gridley Stake. Cast members: Lavern Ferrin, Eulalia Jensen, Pearl Tolley, Beulah Hepworth, Donna Brink, Eva May Gerber.
Gridley Stake (California)
THE Gridley Ward centennial observance on March 17, 1942 began at 7 p.m. when the Relief Society members were the guests of the Priesthood at a delicious supper planned, cooked, and served under the direction of the Bishopric. Relief Society colors, blue and gold, were used in the decorations. The supper was served cafeteria style from a long table centered by the birthday cake which consisted of two layers each thirty inches by fifty inches with the Relief Society emblem in the center surrounded by candles. Also decorating the table was a large bouquet of carnations, one of which was presented to each member of the Relief Society. The people ate at small tables and the supper was bountiful and delightful.
The program which followed included songs by the Singing Mothers, led by Lillian Nielson, and an address by the ward Relief Society president, Mabel Jensen, honoring past Relief Society officers, and a patriotic talk by Marvis Fife. The play, "Is It Possible?" was staged in a very beautiful garden setting under direction of Dorothy Fife, with appropriate music played softly throughout by Alice Carlin. Six young ladies in old-fashioned costumes sang and danced "Old Fashioned Garden," with Robert Fife as accompanist. The remainder of the evening was spent in dancing, and pieces of the birthday cake were served.
SHE LET HER LIGHT SO SHINE 347
SHE LET HER LIGHT SO SHINE
(Continued from page 311)
When the fourteenth candle was flaming, Amy Kathryn continued:
These are but a few of her outstanding contributions to the uplifting progress of her fellow men. And now the summation of the light that she has shed in her various fields of achievement entitles her to add a brilliancy to the Hall of Fame.
With this last statement, the little character, Amy Brown, came down the stage into the spotlight and lighted the candle representing the Hall of Fame. This candle was a large white one set in an old-fashioned candlestick made entirely of gorgeous fresh pastel-colored flowers.
In a clear steady voice filled with love, Amy Kathryn continued:
She is my grandmother and I should be modest, but she lighted my candle too, and I am grateful. Sonow dear grandmother, I return the light to you, the giver, that you may go on sharing it with others!
Amy Kathryn then gracefully picked up the huge candle in its colorful, petal-fresh holder, and carrying it the full length of the ballroom she presented it to her grandmother at the honored guests' table. This impressive finale was greeted with great applause.
Mrs. Stewart took the scroll of honor to Mrs. Lyman that she, in turn, might add her name to the list of famous women. Mrs. Shepherd welcomed her into the Hall of Fame and pinned a service medallion over her heart.
Mrs. Lyman's reply was full of appreciation for the honor accorded her. She was particularly happy that it was the women of her own community who selected her for membership in their Hall of Fame.

Articles Needed for Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop
At present the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop is in need of beautiful cotton quilts, sizes 84"x90", and 84"x104". Rugs, sizes 20"x36", 24"x36", and 36"x48" are also in demand. Rugs made on a loom in light or dark colors are very popular and sell readily. Braided, handloomed, or hooked rugs should be made to sell for $4 to $10 each. The shop also needs knitting bags, which may be sold for $2 to $5, and fine netted doilies without linen centers, as well as other useful, unique, and attractive articles.
For more complete information write to or call at Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Tomorrow's Cup
Anna Prince Redd
Chapter III
SYNOPSIS: Janet, protectingly reared in Washington, D. C., lives in constant dread of the San Juan country of Utah where her husband, Paul Morgan, has an Indian trading post on the mesa. She plans on their moving to Washington before the birth of her baby, but does not disclose this intention to her husband during the happy week they spend together camping on the mesa.
IN spite of Janet's fears, the week was a happy one. Paul was so elated at the prospect of the baby's coming that he could talk of little else. When they were packed and ready to leave the mesa, he said regretfully:
"I hate to get back to civilization!"
Janet smiled above his head as he fitted his own long stirrups to her feet. How would he feel if he knew they were going to Washington, D. C. Soon! But that revelation was something that could wait. The world was a wonderful place in spite of places you didn't like. It was brimming with loveliness today. And happiness, too. One needed only to dip one's cup and be filled.
Tomorrow she would have less to blind her to realities. Back at El Toro there'd be no firelight in caves to hold her under a spell. In the clear light of day, things would be seen as they were. Tomorrow would be soon enough.
"How's that?" Paul patted her boot into the stirrup.
"Fine. But you have to ride bareback all the way."
"I'm one cowboy that can ride without a saddle. I'm so darned
Page 348
happy I could ride a rail and not know it!"
"How can I tell him?" Janet thought remorsefully. "What right have I to tell him where he ought to live?"
"But you're not telling him," her brain argued. "You're just saying where you're going to live."
"Which is one and the same thing!" she reminded herself honestly.
"This week is something to remember, Janet. Something we may both wish for in the days to come."
All the lilt had gone from Paul's voice, and it seemed to Janet that her thoughts had betrayed her. There was so much she wanted to say, so much that had to be said between them, that she couldn't say any of it. And before she could think of a safe approach Paul began to sing.
He had a grand voice, Janet noted in surprise. She had heard him hum snatches of cowboy airs, but never really sing as he was doing now. For the first few miles he sang college and operatic songs, but as the mood deepened between them his voice softened to tender melodies she had not heard in years. When he sang "Sweet and Low," the lump that was in Janet's throat tightened into tears.
After that Paul talked or was silent as her mood changed; but nothing could dampen the ardor in his eyes when he looked at her. By the time they were in sight of El Toro, Janet was wearied by her own thoughts. Paul was as big and mysterious as his country. They'd
TOMORROW'S CUP
been married three years, and this week alone with him had shown her how little she had known of the real person he was. The man behind the westerner. She'd known so little of him; had taken the path her heart suggested, the path she'd known always in spirit. Only a week ago she had thought there'd be no Harvard, no football for her sononly cowboys and cows. And she'd tripped herself with her own thinking.
Paul, with amazing foresight, had taken the reins.
"You know, Janet," he said, uncannily baring her thoughts, "people are just people, fine and good, or coarse and bad, wherever they are, and very, very often a little of both. And here we are, just two people, home again."
"Paul" There was apology in Janet's voice, "I've been happy up there on the mesa, Paul. AndAnd now we're back to civilization."
"And where we started from?"
"No. Not quite."
"You've gone a little way along my road, Jan. Let me tell you that, gratefully, will you?"
Now. Now was the time, Janet's mind urged. Not now, her heart pleaded. Not ever, please not ever. She knew that she had only to say to Paul that she could not go all the way along his road and her fight would be won. Triumphantly she knew that he was hers, against the country he loved as his life, against the world. She had only to say, "I'm afraid here, Paul," and her cup would be full. Tomorrow's cup would brim with all the joys she'd dreamed the world could hold.
Instead she said: "Quite an elegant long blue
349
car has taken possession in our absence, Paul."
She would have pointed toward El Toro but could not trust her hand; its shaking would betray her. Somehow, without hurting Paul, her fight must be won. She could not, would not give up.
"So I see," Paul said, and his eyes never left the car in question. "It's parked almost in the front door! You'llYou'll be glad to have company."
"Something we may both wish for in the days to come." Paul's words ringing in her ears. Paul refusing to look at her.
"Maybe it's just cattle buyers," she said hopefully.
"It's too racy. It's company all right," Paul said, and there was a pained edge to his voice.
"Paul, couldcould we slip in the back way?"
A joyous bark from Taos turned their attention to the door. Janet took one look at the beautiful woman standing there and flew into her arms.
"Rhae! What a blessed surprise!"
"Janet!" There was barely time for the embrace before the woman continued, "Janet, it's good to see you. But in such a place! I never dreamed it would be quite this bad!"
Paul took in her words and the elegant male that stood behind her on the porch, and disliked them both cordially. The man spoke:
"I say, summer comes down in one fell swoop in this country!"
"Just as some people," Paul thought, but"The women seem to know each other!" is what he said.
350
"Oh, I'm sorry, Paul," Janet cried. "This is my sister, Rhae, and her husband, Warren Newsbaum. I'm so excited I forget you have never seen them. Get acquainted, you two, I can't see anyone except Rhae."
"She's decidedly worth looking at," Paul remarked gallantly; then belied his words by turning immediately to Warren Newsbaum. "I begin to see, Janet."
Rhae Newsbaum sized Paul up frankly. "If you can't have cake with icing, then, you just take cake."
There were sparks in Paul's eyes. Janet hurried the Newsbaums into the house.
"Welcome to El Toro," she cried, including everything in the sweep of her arms. "I'll bet you're starved. Dinner, Juanee. I'll not even stop to dress."
"Do we ever?" Paul's frankness sent a hot flush over Janet's face, and Paul was instantly sorry for his remark. He could see he was undoing all that the week had built up between them, but he didn't like airs, and the sooner these people found it out the better.
"This is a cattle country," he said in scant apology.
He couldn't believe that Janet had known her folks were coming, but the timing was too perfect to be comfortable. And long before dinner was finished he had formed a pretty clear idea of why they had come. First one Newsbaum and then the other made things very plain. It was, "poor Janet this, and poor Janet that" through three courses. The dessert was served to: "This is so foreign to all you've been accustomed, Janet, dear. I wonder how you endure it. I'm sure I'd die of boredom!" That was Rhae's contribution. Her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
husband added the indigestible: "Whatever do you do for amusement?" His remark was addressed to Janet but his eyes looked to Paul for reply. It was nothing short of a challenge.
"We poke fun at tenderfeet for amusement," Paul told him pleasantly. "Their antics are a source of never-ending enjoyment."
Janet covered Warren's confusion with questions of home. The real thunderbolt struck when Rhae pointedly remarked: "Poor father is quite frail; it will prolong his life to know that you are coming home, Janet."
Paul's heart skipped a beat. "To stay indefinitely?" his eyes inquired of Janet. Then he settled the question coolly. "As I remember it, Janet, your father loved this country. When your visit is up will you send him back to us here, Rhae?"
Completely baffled by Paul's innocently engaging smile, Rhae had no retort. "And it serves her right," Janet thought. "Announcing her plans as if they were fully considered and accepted by everyone."
Warren Newsbaum took up the uncomfortable slack. "I say," he said, "you haven't a broncho horse I could ride have you?"
"Plenty of them, and they're no trick at all to ride! You'd have the time of your life on Caesar."
Janet looked at Paul in consternation. Caesar was the wickedest horse that ever came off a range. Tractable as a kitten in Paul's hands, but a devil at heart. Not a man on the desert would throw a leg across his back.
"But if you're not used to riding" Paul began.
TOMORROW'S CUP
"Oh, I ride frequently!" Newsbaum assured him. Rhae looked at her husband in surprise; she started to speak and decided not to. Which in itself should have warned both of them.
"Shouldn't we decide on the entertainment of our guests after they've had a good night's sleep, Paul?" Janet's eyes implored, but she managed to keep her voice light, even through a hint of tears.
Paul looked at her anxiously. How could he have forgotten that Janet was tired and excited by the day's crowded events? He summoned Juanee.
"Are the guest rooms ready?" he asked.
Juanee nodded. Rhae and Warren rose from the table; the plurals had escaped neither of them.
"Well, upon my word, are we to have a suite, then? Not so rural after all, is it Warren?"
Janet knew Rhae was deliberately baiting Paul. "You'll find us very comfortable here," she defended.
"Decidedly," Warren said. "I shall not rest, however, till I've had a chance at your horse. Caesar you call him?"
"Goodnight, Rhae and Warren," Janet interposed hurriedly. "Sleep late. We're Mexicans enough to like drowsy hours. Here at El Toro it's an affront to stir out of bed before the sun is well up."
The sun had never found Paul Morgan in bed in twenty years. "But," he thought, "if it'll keep these strangers out of sight for a few hours I'll see what I can do."
"Caesar never bucks before eleven o'clock, Newsbaum," he said genially. "How'd you like to ride him at ten?"
351
"He should be warmed up by twelve," Warren countered, "I'll book him for twelve."
And Paul began to like the fellow. "I hope you'll be worth salvaging, Warren," Rhae said sweetly. She kissed Janet and without a glance in Paul's direction, took herself and her husband off to bed.
By eleven o'clock the pole fence around the corral was lined with boot heels and stetsons. Janet could not figure it out. Paul had not left the ranch, yet every cowboy for miles around knew there was a tenderfoot spree on. Warren, dressed to the minute in purple shirt, red silk kerchief, spurs and chaps, had gone nattily to the slaughter. Rhae sat reading in the west patio, pointedly oblivious to what was going on.
Janet questioned Juanee. Had Joe spread the word? Had he been gone in the night? Juanee became all squaw and refused to talk.
Janet wasn't really worried; Paul wouldn't let Warren get hurt. But she didn't see how Rhae could sit there as if nothing were going on. Curiosity, if nothing else, should be strong enough to pull her to the door. Paul ought to be ashamed, letting a member of his own family make horseplay for a bunch of crude punchers! Caesar was brutal and Warren would get thrown. He'd come limping to the house apologetically and Rhae would be superior. Well, whatever happened, she hoped it would soon be over.
And it was. Almost before it had begun. From the first gleeful shout that announced the opening of the chute, there had been an ominous silence.
352
Janet went to the porch and saw them coming, a slow procession. Warren was hurt! Dead, perhaps. Nothing less could make desert men act like that.... No.... Warren was leading. The cowboys were carrying someone else. Someone almost as tall as Paul! Where was Paul? Of course! Paul had raced for a doctor. Caesar would take him to Mexican Hat in no time. Hosea Potsworth, the doctor was there.....
They were nearer now. She could see theThe man's nice... Long... Frame....
"Miss Janet, Juanee take you away!"
"No! No!" Janet threw off the Indian woman's protecting hands. "It isn't Paul! Be quiet. Go to your twins, Juanee. I hear them crying."
"Paul." Janet said it softly as they carried him in. "Paul," she said again. Warren Newsbaum came and stood beside her.
"They have gone for a doctor, Janet. He isn't dead."
It was the assurance Janet needed. "Juanee! Juanee, come quickly."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
If Paul were not dead, then life could go on for her, too. "We must keep him warm! Yes.... Thank you Warren."
Hours later Janet's body woke from a drugged sleep. Her mind had never left Paul; yet she was unable to get up and go to him. On the porch men were talking. She heard Paul's name.
"Just like Paul Morgan," a voice was saying. "He had that black-hearted Caesar by the bit before the rest of us knew the tenderfoot was dragging. If I've ever seen a killer that stallion is one!"
Yes. Janet had always known that. Caesar was one of the things she was afraid of. He had tried to stomp her once. Paul had almost killed him then. Paul wouldn't admit that Caesar was a killer because Paul was master. But she knew.... Others were talking:
"The tenderfoot's a right guy.... Feels to blame.... Mrs. Morgan ought to know...."
Ought to know what? Janet sat up. She must go to Paul. But she must go quietly. There was the baby to think of, Paul's baby.
(To be continued)

PURPLE SAGE
By Lydia Hall
Roses for the lovers, Star-bright skies o'erhead, Lilies, white and lovely, For someone who is dead.
Daisies for the children, Happy in their play, And the sweet carnations For the mother gray.
But I love the sage brush More than all the rest: Rain-wet plumes of fragrance Purpling the west.

Annual Relief Society Magazine Subscription Report
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE representatives in stakes, wards, and missions have again achieved a notable record as indicated by the Magazine subscription report for the calendar year 1942. Largely through their efforts, the regular paid circulation of the Magazine was raised from 55,000 in 1941 to 57,000 in 1942.
The General Board of Relief Society is deeply grateful to the Relief Society Magazine representatives throughout the Church, to the local, stake, and mission Relief Society officers who have supported them in their efforts, and to the members of Relief Society who have recognized the worth of this periodical by subscribing for it.
Again this year the General Board is awarding a one-year free Magazine subscription to all local representatives who procured subscriptions equal to 75% of the ward or branch enrollment in Relief Society as of the end of 1942. A total of 382 Magazine representatives earned this award during 1942. This number of award winners is greater by 84 or 28 percent than the 298 winners in 1941. There were 52 more award winners in wards, and 32 more in mission branches.
The award winners are listed in the honor roll on the following pages together with the numerical and percentage record of their achievement. The list is arranged in alphabetical order according to stakes and missions. In those instances where the entire stake, mission district, or mission also achieved a record of 75% subscriptions in relation to Relief Society membership, the names of the supervisory Magazine representatives are also listed in the honor roll. Much credit is due these supervisory Magazine representatives for their work in directing and stimulating the local representatives and in collecting and compiling the annual Magazine subscription reports.
Following are a few excerpts from letters received from stake and ward Magazine representatives expressing their pleasure in fulfilling this assignment:
From a Stake "Magazine" Representative in Utah
Our Magazine drive is now over and it would do you good to feel the fine spirit of the sisters who participated. They expressed themselves to me that they were very happy in meeting the women in their homes, as the women they had solicited had received them graciously and made them welcome. In checking up with them I think they have done a very good work especially considering war times.
From a Ward "Magazine" Representative in Idaho
It has been an overwhelming joy and pleasure to me to place your wonderful Magazine in the homes of my friends and neighbors whom I love. I have taken the Magazine for a number of years and cannot even imagine what I could do without it. When I was asked to be your Magazine representative, I readily consented as I well knew what great value the subscribers would receive for only $1.00.... I am very much thrilled with my success as I desired to place a Magazine in every home in the ward and have done so with the exception of two and am still going to try and get them as they think they can take it later.... Some of these subscriptions are
Page 353
354
for young married women who will be unable to attend Relief Society meetings but are anxious to receive in their homes the wonderful messages the Magazine contains.
From a Ward "Magazine" Representative in California
At present our enrollment is 83 and I have succeeded in getting 83 subscriptions, and hope to procure a few more. I have enjoyed the work immensely and the women have been so wonderful and cooperative that it has been a joy to do the work.
Relief Society Magazine representatives and subscribers throughout the Church will be pleased to know that the General Board recently decided to maintain the yearly subscription price at $1.00 despite greatly increased costs of labor and materials due to the war. In order not to raise the subscription price, it will be necessary for the subscription lists to be maintained at the present new high circulation figure and increased if possible. The General Board feels
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMAY 1943
that Relief Society members, officers, and Magazine representatives will give every possible support to the Magazine in order that its present high quality may be maintained without increasing the subscription price.
The General Board also acknowledges with great appreciation the extra service given by Magazine representatives during 1942 in securing advance orders for A Centenary of Relief Society issued during 1942 as a special feature of the centennial year of Relief Society. The thousands of advance paid orders obtained by Magazine representatives throughout the Church made it possible for this valuable, historical, and pictorial book to be issued at the low price of 50c per copy and to assure procurement of fine quality paper and other supplies for it prior to involvement of the United States in war and the resulting restrictions and advance in prices for materials and labor. 
HONOR ROLL
Stake or Mission
Ward or Branch
Enrollment
Subscriptions

Magazine Representative



No.
Pct.

Alberta
| | Cardston Second | 85 | 69 | 81 | Garnet Bates | | | Hartley | 24 | 22 | 92 | Annie Orr | | | Pershing | 9 | 10 | 111 | Selma Sache |
Alpine
| | Highland | 42 | 57 | 136 | Louella Binns |
Australian
| | Adelaide | 215 | 262 | 122 | Violet Cook | | | Brisbane | 11 | 17 | 155 | Gertrude Latter | | | Enmore | 36 | 40 | 111 | Paloona M. Brown | | | Glen Huon | 39 | 33 | 85 | M. A. Rood | | | Hurstville | 4 | 20 | 500 | Ellen Wooley | | | Melbourne | 18 | 53 | 294 | Edna Fielder | | | Perth | 28 | 28 | 100 | Eunice Compton | | | Woollahra | 14 | 12 | 86 | Mavis Burroughs |
Bannock
| | Bench | 21 | 18 | 86 | Rose Hansen | | | Lago | 30 | 30 | 100 | Dorothy Steel | | | Thatcher | 49 | 47 | 96 | Theone Smith | | | Williams | 23 | 19 | 83 | Edith Hubbard |
Bear Lake
| | Fish Haven | 544 | 408 | 75 | Gertrude R. Price | | | Garden City | 35 | 35 | 100 | Alice Loveland | | | Laketown | 56 | 56 | 100 | Celia Langford | | | Liberty | 51 | 44 | 86 | Barbara S. Norris | | | Ovid | 38 | 30 | 79 | Erma G. Poulsen | | | Paris Second | 40 | 31 | 78 | Elsie Sleight | | | Sharon | 83 | 63 | 76 | Della R. Hulme | | | St. Charles | 18 | 21 | 117 | Hazel Long |
Bear River
| | Collinston | 85 | 67 | 79 | Carrie Pugmire | | | Elwood | 8 | 10 | 125 | Kate S. Petersen | | | Park Valley | 40 | 31 | 78 | Jannsine Petersen | | | Stone | 37 | 33 | 89 | Beth K. James | | | Thatcher | 28 | 31 | 111 | Inga Mills |
Beaver
| | Adamsville | 56 | 29 | 81 | Ivie H. Christensen |
Big Cottonwood
| | Holladay | 12 | 11 | 92 | Sarah A. Jones | | | Valley View | 139 | 113 | 81 | Irene Lloyd |
Big Horn
| | | 70 | 57 | 81 | Emily Bergener | | | Basin | 799 | 686 | 86 | Ann E. Gwynn | | | Belfry | 34 | 42 | 124 | Lova Kinghorn | | | Burlington | 15 | 16 | 107 | Mary Yost | | | Byron | 65 | 68 | 105 | Dorothy Yorgason | | | Cody | 74 | 65 | 88 | Sally Griffin | | | Iona | 22 | 22 | 100 | Vonda Smith | | | Lovell | 30 | 24 | 80 | Virginia M. Sawyer | | | Lovell West | 153 | 132 | 86 | Christina Norton | | | Otto | 160 | 123 | 77 | Bertha M. Hile | | | Penrose | 31 | 25 | 81 | Loa Christiansen | | | Powell | 10 | 15 | 150 | Zona H. Roper | | | Worland | 25 | 25 | 100 | Julia Lynn |
Blackfoot
| | Riverton | 25 | 36 | 144 | Ora Cannon |
Blaine
| | Gannett | 28 | 21 | 75 | Carrie Brown | | | Jerome | 12 | 14 | 116 | Luella Stanfield | | | Shoshone | 73 | 88 | 121 | Stella Thompson |
Boise
| | Atlanta | 18 | 16 | 89 | Louie Mulliner | | | Boise First | 5 | 6 | 120 | Mary Johnson | | | Boise Fourth | 158 | 116 | 84 | Lillian Stuart | | | Mountain Home | 40 | 45 | 113 | Nellie Gillis |
Box Elder
| | Brigham Second | 7 | 7 | 100 | Gladys Ferbrache | | | Evans | 126 | 110 | 87 | Sarah H. Horsley | | | Pella | 23 | 23 | 100 | Cleo Andersen | | | Unity | 44 | 42 | 95 | Alice Freer |
Burley
| | | 44 | 49 | 111 | Afton Baker |
Cache
| | Logan Fourth | 190 | 170 | 89 | Rachel Fuhriman |
California
Imperial Valley Dist. | | Brawley | 10 | 10 | 100 | Thelma Lunceford |
Long Beach Dist. | | Laguna Beach | 10 | 9 | 90 | Mae Peterson |
Northern Arizona District | | Chino Valley | 11 | 10 | 90 | Ida H. Turley | | | Rolapp | 14 | 11 | 79 | Lena Ungricht |
Carbon
| | Spring Glenn | 47 | 39 | 83 | Myrtle Wharff |
Cassia
| | | 182 | 147 | 81 | Jane R. Hale | | | Oakley First | 47 | 39 | 83 | Lillian McMurray | | | Oakley Second | 55 | 46 | 84 | Jane R. Hale | | | Oakley Third | 30 | 32 | 107 | Angeline Martindale |
Chicago
| | Milwaukee | 52 | 61 | 117 | Marie Meyer | | | Milwaukee South | 16 | 15 | 94 | Vivienne Hart | | | West Suburban | 12 | 10 | 83 | Marie B. Harden |
East Central States
North Carolina East District | | Wilmington | 26 | 24 | 92 | Mrs. J. G. Henderson |
Virginia East Dist. | | Elizabeth City | 7 | 7 | 100 | Lorna McPherson |
Virginia West Dist. | | Roanoke | 21 | 21 | 100 | Odell Gladden |
West Virginia North District | | Fairmont | 6 | 5 | 83 | Beatrice Ford |
West Virginia South District | | Huntington | 19 | 23 | 121 | Mrs. Leonard Scroath |
Eastern States
| | Schenectady | 9 | 7 | 78 | Olga B. Hopper | | | Trenton | 4 | 5 | 125 | Marion Thoburn |
Albany District | | Gloversville | 7 | 6 | 86 | Bertha Siebach |
New Jersey Dist. | | New Brunswick | 7 | 6 | 86 | Anna M. Daines |
Seneca District | | Canandaigua | 8 | 7 | 88 | Nellie Lodge | | | Elmira | 3 | 4 | 133 | Kathleen Hulet |
West Pennsylvania District | | Pittsburgh | 25 | 28 | 112 | Virginia Birtcher | | | Washington | 3 | 7 | 233 | Elizabeth Aston |
Emery
| | Elmo | 34 | 31 | 91 | Lillian I. Oviatt | | | Orangeville | 106 | 88 | 83 | Blanche Nelson | | | Rochester | 12 | 11 | 92 | Lucille Allen |
Emigration
| | Twelfth | 112 | 96 | 86 | Fannie Springer | | | Thirteenth | 120 | 92 | 77 | Alma Erickson |
Ensign
| | East Ensign | 56 | 42 | 75 | Ella W. Stuart | | | North Eighteenth | 179 | 135 | 75 | Hazel Spencer | | | South Eighteenth | 157 | 145 | 92 | Lena Dyer |
Farr West
| | Mound Fort | 74 | 62 | 84 | Leota F. Burton |
Franklin
| | Fairview | 85 | 87 | 102 | Annie W. Gilbert | | | Mapleton | 32 | 28 | 88 | Cora Knapp | | | Preston Fifth | 32 | 26 | 81 | Emma Johnson |
Granite
| | Hawthorne | 239 | 191 | 80 | Charlotte Stout | | | Lincoln | 217 | 180 | 83 | Elsie Marfell |
Gridley
| | Grass Valley | 19 | 17 | 89 | Nora M. Medlyn | | | Oroville | 18 | 16 | 89 | Violet Gray |
Humboldt
| | Carlin | 21 | 22 | 105 | Charlotte S. Ferguson | | | Metropolis | 14 | 12 | 86 | Tressa T. Hyde |
Idaho
| | Hatch | 13 | 11 | 85 | Valerie Johnson | | | Kelly-Toponce | 24 | 22 | 92 | Elsie Millward |
Idaho Falls
| | Ammon | 110 | 89 | 81 | Christie Heath | | | Idaho Falls Fifth | 78 | 106 | 137 | Ila Sams | | | Idaho Falls Sixth | 102 | 82 | 80 | Phoebe L. Peterson |
Juarez
| | | 128 | 123 | 96 | Jennie Bowman | | | Chihuahua | 9 | 9 | 100 | Theresa Wagner | | | Chuichupa | 17 | 20 | 118 | Cora Judd | | | Dublan | 31 | 33 | 106 | Jennie Bowman | | | Juarez | 54 | 45 | 83 | Mildred Farnsworth | | | Pacheco | 11 | 12 | 109 | Margaret M. Johnson |
Kolob
| | Springville First | 183 | 151 | 83 | Eugenia Bird | | | Springville Fourth | 187 | 140 | 75 | Lela Sumsion |
Lake View
| | Clinton | 104 | 91 | 88 | Chrystal Burnett | | | Kanesville | 31 | 30 | 97 | Aleen H. Hansen |
Lethbridge
| | Calgary | 81 | 72 | 89 | Helen Faulkner |
Liberty
| | First | 174 | 159 | 92 | Josephine Pett | | | Harvard | 137 | 124 | 91 | Thelma Schmidt |
Logan
| | Providence First | 80 | 61 | 76 | Clara Astle |
Long Beach
| | Bellflower | 51 | 54 | 106 | Nina Eckholdt | | | Compton Center | 36 | 36 | 100 | Irene Weech | | | Huntington Beach | 20 | 20 | 100 | Lura Lockett | | | Long Beach Parkview | 177 | 143 | 81 | Alberta Freeman | | | Wilmington | 155 | 147 | 95 | Lovinia Skougard |
Los Angeles
| | Arlington | 55 | 46 | 84 | Edith Eby |
Lost River
| | Challis | 103 | 80 | 78 | Jen Sasins | | | Leadore | 13 | 12 | 92 | Mable Howell | | | Leslie | 11 | 13 | 118 | Edna Walton | | | Moore | 31 | 27 | 87 | Mrs. DeLeath Rice | | | Superior | 34 | 26 | 76 | Ellen H. King |
Lyman
| | Holbrook | 40 | 35 | 88 | Louise Edwards |
Malad
| | Malad First | 28 | 21 | 75 | Alice J. Hubbard | | | Reynolds | 68 | 58 | 85 | Sarah P. Evans | | | Woodruff | 14 | 12 | 86 | Mabel J. Smith |
Maricopa
| | Chandler | 20 | 16 | 80 | Afton Ward | | | Lehi | 54 | 62 | 115 | Vida Ellsworth | | | Mesa Fourth | 43 | 33 | 77 | Elmira Power | | | Mesa Fifth | 63 | 62 | 75 | Grace Burton | | | Pine | 128 | 100 | 78 | Lucy D. Chesley | | | Superior | 21 | 21 | 100 | Ina P. Hunt |
Millard
| | Flowell | 17 | 15 | 88 | Abbie Bell |
Moapa
| | Bunkerville | 23 | 18 | 78 | Nona C. Tomkinson | | | Littlefield | 53 | 40 | 75 | June Waite | | | Logandale | 12 | 19 | 158 | Minerva McKnight | | | Mesquite | 53 | 61 | 115 | Lillian Adams |
Montpelier
| | Bennington | 71 | 65 | 92 | Josephine Hughes | | | Bern | 35 | 29 | 83 | Mae S. Hunter | | | Montpelier Third | 24 | 20 | 83 | Myrtle Steckler | | | Nounan | 53 | 44 | 83 | Virginia Hymas | | | Raymond | 18 | 16 | 89 | Florence Bartschi | | | Wardboro | 13 | 13 | 100 | Eleanor Saxton |
Morgan
| | North Morgan | 21 | 16 | 76 | Evva Dalrymple | | | Slide | 43 | 35 | 81 | Julia Randall |
Mt. Graham
| | Clifton | 24 | 23 | 96 | Elizabeth Hansen | | | Gila | 26 | 20 | 77 | Avis Watson | | | Las Cruces | 15 | 14 | 93 | Jennie Hubbard | | | Solomonville | 4 | 4 | 100 | Mildred E. Hayner |
Mt. Jordan
| | Draper Second | 20 | 24 | 83 | Lucy Barney |
Nampa
| | Homedale | 83 | 67 | 81 | Bertha C. Smith |
Nevada
| | Callao | 32 | 25 | 78 | Medora Davenport | | | Eureka | 8 | 7 | 88 | Inez Tripp | | | Kimberly | 4 | 7 | 175 | Grace Fine | | | McGill | 19 | 18 | 95 | Kathirene Johnson | | | | 140 | 117 | 84 | Louisa Johnson |
New England
Massachusetts-Rhode Island Dist. | | New Bedford | 13 | 10 | 77 | | | | Providence | 9 | 10 | 111 | |
New York
| | Bay Ridge | 9 | 7 | 78 | Elizabeth Scharrier | | | Manhattan | 28 | 24 | 86 | Louise Hucke | | | Oceanside | 18 | 14 | 78 | Katherine Lermer | | | Westchester | 13 | 13 | 100 | Konda Atkinson |
North Central States
| | Tower | 4 | 5 | 125 | Rosmyn A. Bruneau |
Milk River Dist. | | Glasgow | 16 | 17 | 106 | Mrs. F. J. Rushton |
South Dakota Dist. | | Sioux Falls | 4 | 8 | 200 | Geneva Runebery |
North Davis
| | Layton First | 142 | 124 | 87 | Ella Weaver |
Northern States
Illinois North and South Districts | | | 78 | 72 | 92 | Rena P. Custer |
Illinois North Dist. | | Bloomington | 4 | 10 | 250 | Ida W. Chambers | | | Galesburg | 8 | 7 | 88 | Rena P. Custer | | | Peoria | 12 | 12 | 100 | Clara V. Baer |
Illinois South Dist. | | Champaign | 8 | 7 | 88 | Reva Y. Hoskisson | | | Clinton | 8 | 7 | 88 | Lettie Crews | | | Decatur | 14 | 12 | 86 | Marguerite Farnsworth | | | Springfield | 16 | 13 | 81 | Francis Canady |
South Indiana Dist. | | Linton | 16 | 12 | 75 | Nellie Centers | | | Terre Haute | 19 | 17 | 89 | Barbara Crafton |
West Iowa Dist. | | Boone | 12 | 9 | 75 | Olive Chambers |
West Michigan Dist. | | Gary | 12 | 9 | 75 | Avera Homer |
Wisconsin Dist. | | Eau Claire | 52 | 40 | 76 | Hazel M. Branham | | | Lyndhurst | 15 | 13 | 87 | Luella Schroeder |
North Idaho Falls
| | Coltman | 10 | 10 | 100 | Selma Hoffman | | | Hamer | 701 | 537 | 77 | Margaret Sayer | | | Idaho Falls Fourth | 46 | 40 | 100 | Marion Judd | | | Milo | 40 | 20 | 100 | Ida F. Nielson | | | Spencer | 153 | 119 | 78 | Mrs. E. J. Wadsworth | | | Terreton | 40 | 47 | 118 | Emily Palmer | | | Ucon | 10 | 10 | 100 | Cecile McCurdy |
North Sanpete
| | Mountainville | 36 | 31 | 86 | Ruby Lott |
North Weber
| | Ogden Third | 94 | 85 | 90 | Sibyl Phillips | | | | 14 | 11 | 79 | Birdella Burnside | | | | 168 | 129 | 77 | Martha M. Burnett |
Northwestern States
Independent Branches | | Gresham | 25 | 20 | 80 | Ruth E. Jones | | | Kirkland | 5 | 5 | 100 | Opal Glines | | | McMinnville | 13 | 12 | 92 | LaPreal Johnson | | | Oregon City | 13 | 11 | 85 | Ada Dietson | | | Puyallup | 11 | 10 | 91 | Adele Sreeves | | | Raymond | 13 | 11 | 85 | Winona Hammond | | | The Dalles | 13 | 13 | 100 | Maude M. May |
Butte District | | Helena | 20 | 21 | 105 | Lucille Rossiter |
Great Falls Dist. | | Augusta | 9 | 9 | 100 | Leah Eddington | | | Browning | 10 | 12 | 120 | Gertrude Thompson | | | Bynum | 16 | 16 | 100 | Alta Stott | | | Cut Bank | 16 | 15 | 94 | Effie Worthington | | | Shelby | 10 | 10 | 100 | Maxine Carter | | | Simms | 11 | 9 | 82 | Anna Jensen |
Missoula Dist. | | Allendale | 22 | 19 | 86 | Edna M. Parker | | | Hamilton | 23 | 19 | 83 | Oretta Blodgett |
Northern Montana District | | Chinook | 39 | 35 | 90 | Eleanor Packer |
Spokane District | | Coeur d'Alene | 21 | 17 | 81 | Emma Master | | | Grand Coulee | 11 | 11 | 100 | Florence H. Powell | | | Kellogg | 19 | 15 | 79 | Pearl Toland | | | Sandpoint | 17 | 13 | 76 | Selma Parr |
Yakima District | | Klickitat | 10 | 10 | 100 | Fannie Briggs | | | Sunnyside | 13 | 13 | 100 | Lorraine O. Cobbley |
Oakland
| | Elmhurst | 78 | 80 | 103 | Jessie Stock |
Ogden
| | Eden | 34 | 30 | 88 | Janet Ferrin | | | Liberty | 31 | 26 | 84 | Irma B. Holmes | | | Ogden Thirteenth | 180 | 139 | 77 | Itha Bieler |
Oneida
| | Glendale | 13 | 14 | 108 | Rachel Webster |
Palmyra
| | Leland | 48 | 36 | 75 | Lula Beck | | | Palmyra | 40 | 30 | 75 | Annie E. Neilson | | | Spanish Fork Third | 129 | 105 | 81 | Lena Webb |
Parowan
| | New Harmony | 33 | 28 | 85 | Sadie Grant |
Phoenix
| | Buckeye | 460 | 352 | 77 | Mildred Smithson | | | Capitol | 12 | 11 | 92 | Florine S. Schweihart | | | Phoenix Second | 44 | 41 | 93 | Clara England | | | Phoenix Third | 87 | 68 | 78 | Phoebe Thomson |
Pocatello
| | Pocatello Second | 121 | 123 | 102 | M. Vaughn Cameron | | | Pocatello Fourth | 158 | 119 | 75 | Afton Gunn | | | Pocatello Fifth | 113 | 90 | 80 | Mary Packer | | | Pocatello Sixth | 96 | 77 | 80 | Annie Mottishaw |
Portneuf
| | Grant | 144 | 140 | 97 | Lillie Woodland | | | McCammon | 9 | 8 | 80 | Mary T. Bright | | | Swan Lake | 77 | 77 | 100 | Marian B. Romriell | | | Virginia | 30 | 26 | 87 | Marie Henderson |
Provo
| | Manavu | 27 | 26 | 96 | May Barfuss | | | Moulton | 112 | 168 | 150 | Flora Buggert | | | Sublett | 13 | 15 | 100 | Julia H. Clark | | | Yost | 9 | 9 | 100 | Persis Horn |
Raft River
| | Hawthorne | 15 | 13 | 87 | Blanche Oman | | | Portola | 29 | 22 | 76 | LaVerda Hughes | | | Reno | 21 | 26 | 124 | Virginia Geldmacher | | | Sparks | 50 | 38 | 76 | Viola Jensen |
Reno
| | | 84 | 73 | 87 | Artie E. Vanderhoof |
Rexburg
| | Lyman | 61 | 41 | 84 | Celia Hales | | | Rexburg Second | 152 | 121 | 80 | Alice M. Howard | | | Rexburg Third | 67 | 52 | 78 | Margaret Pearson |
Rigby
| | Clark | 51 | 47 | 92 | Ivie Smith | | | Grant | 47 | 39 | 83 | Annie Hymas | | | Menan | 113 | 113 | 100 | Roberta Keller | | | Palisade | 20 | 26 | 90 | Helma Oakden | | | Rigby Fourth | 73 | 56 | 77 | Armeda Bailey | | | Rifle | 87 | 88 | 101 | Ines E. Laughlin |
Riverside
| | Fifteenth | 175 | 151 | 86 | Anna Schoenhals |
Roosevelt
| | Ballard | 30 | 25 | 83 | Ellen Bracken | | | Leota | 11 | 10 | 91 | Leona Jorgenson |
Sacramento
| | Tracy | 13 | 20 | 154 | Sarah Dana | | | Woodland | 20 | 17 | 85 | Vendha Gordon |
St. George
| | Mt. Trumbull | 9 | 7 | 78 | Maurine Bundy | | | Ivins | 14 | 11 | 79 | Myrtle L. Gubler | | | Santa Clara | 54 | 42 | 78 | Selma Hafen | | | Veyo | 18 | 17 | 94 | Mildred Bowler |
St. Joseph
| | Miami | 80 | 60 | 75 | Ella Sims | | | Pima | 146 | 120 | 82 | Lydia B. Zufelt |
San Bernardino
| | Redlands | 13 | 13 | 100 | LaVerne Porter |
San Diego
| | | 300 | 267 | 86 | Caroline Westover | | | College | 29 | 29 | 100 | Ruth Damron | | | Fairmont | 57 | 60 | 105 | Ruth Budvarsen | | | Hillcrest | 60 | 52 | 87 | Verna Johanson | | | Logan Heights | 49 | 42 | 86 | Nancy Bird | | | North Park | 78 | 63 | 81 | Abbie Kimball |
San Francisco
| | | 542 | 442 | 82 | Louise B. Arntsen | | | Burlingame | 75 | 58 | 77 | Ruth Bentley | | | Mission | 83 | 73 | 89 | Mary Young | | | Palo Alto | 34 | 30 | 88 | Myra Thulin | | | Redwood City | 34 | 28 | 82 | Aileen Weaver | | | San Jose | 69 | 60 | 87 | Eliza Horsfield | | | Sunset | 85 | 88 | 104 | Josephine Danford |
San Juan
| | Blanding | 185 | 151 | 82 | Nellie Harvey | | | Bluff | 13 | 11 | 86 | Eva Johnson |
Seattle
| | Bellingham | 25 | 23 | 92 | Ella M. Petrie | | | Lincoln | 44 | 44 | 100 | Estella Green | | | West Seattle | 60 | 49 | 82 | Hazel B. Doble |
Snowflake
| | Heber | 24 | 25 | 104 | Ruth Crandell | | | Joseph City | 61 | 58 | 95 | Maurine Porter | | | Lakeside | 59 | 49 | 83 | Louella Burke | | | Linden | 11 | 9 | 82 | May W. Thomas | | | Shumway | 11 | 9 | 82 | Irene Black | | | Woodruff | 32 | 26 | 81 | Hortense Bowler |
South Davis
| | Centerville First | 110 | 111 | 101 | Norma Coles |
Southern States
Florida District | | Gainesville | 4 | 4 | 100 | Virginia McQuarrie | | | San Mateo | 14 | 14 | 100 | Evelyn Tilton |
Georgia District | | Augusta | 16 | 14 | 88 | Iva Mae C. Palmer |
Mississippi Dist. | | Columbia | 19 | 15 | 79 | Otilla Griner |
So. Alabama Dist. | | | 56 | 43 | 77 | Arcola DeWitt | | | Azalea City | 10 | 21 | 111 | Mary E. McIntosh |
So. Georgia Dist. | | Savannah | 25 | 23 | 94 | Alberta Clifton |
South Los Angeles
| | | 851 | 872 | 102 | Rosine Bauer | | | Downey | 42 | 42 | 100 | Florence Heath | | | Firestone | 42 | 47 | 112 | Anna Struks | | | Grant | 45 | 52 | 116 | Alice L. Taylor | | | Huntington Park | 120 | 153 | 128 | Dora Wagstaff | | | Manchester | 110 | 110 | 100 | Nancy Rupp | | | Matthews | 96 | 96 | 100 | Elizabeth Bowen | | | Maywood | 102 | 102 | 100 | Vera Jean Petersen | | | South Gate | 128 | 96 | 75 | Delila Hamman | | | Vermont | 71 | 73 | 103 | Claire D. Selander | | | Walnut Park | 95 | 101 | 106 | Geneva Jones |
South Salt Lake
| | Burton | 102 | 85 | 83 | Alice Anderson | | | Columbus | 148 | 140 | 95 | Hannah Dietrich |
South Sanpete
| | Ephraim North | 68 | 61 | 90 | Thurza Draper | | | Marion | 28 | 21 | 75 | Zella Johnston |
Southern Arizona
| | Binghampton | 53 | 50 | 94 | Louisa Done | | | Nogales | 8 | 7 | 88 | Pearl Lillywhite | | | St. David | 62 | 49 | 79 | Edna Judd |
Star Valley
| | Fairview | 56 | 57 | 102 | Maud Ranzenberg | | | Freedom | 96 | 74 | 77 | Martha Brog | | | Osmond | 25 | 19 | 76 | Mabel Allred | | | Thayne | 48 | 36 | 75 | Leta Coffman | | | Turnerville | 10 | 8 | 80 | Myrtle Turner |
Taylor
| | Raymond Second | 112 | 92 | 82 | Elene Paxman | | | Tyrell's Lake | 9 | 8 | 89 | Clara E. Selk | | | Warner | 9 | 10 | 111 | Bertha Shields |
Teton
| | Bates | 28 | 30 | 107 | Mary Buxton | | | Cedron | 23 | 22 | 96 | Leatha Kunz | | | Jackson | 24 | 23 | 96 | Emma Thompson |
Texas
Houston District | | Houston | 23 | 18 | 78 | Pluma Turk |
Timpanogos | | Lindon | 69 | 58 | 84 | Cosby Rogers |
Tooele | | Vernon | 22 | 17 | 77 | Winnie Gunderson |
Twin Falls
| | Kimberly | 39 | 40 | 103 | Melvina McEwen | | | Twin Falls First | 110 | 111 | 101 | Lenora Carroll |
Uintah
| | Maeser | 75 | 57 | 76 | Tillie Bascom | | | Vernal Second | 114 | 119 | 104 | Sarah H. Hatch |
Union
| | | 299 | 238 | 80 | Della Rees | | | Baker | 36 | 39 | 108 | Sadie E. Shelton | | | Imbler | 31 | 25 | 81 | Bernice Sanders | | | LaGrande First | 79 | 68 | 86 | Hazel Sinine | | | LaGrande Second | 59 | 47 | 80 | Geneva Westenskow | | | Union | 43 | 34 | 79 | Clarice Kohler |
Uvada
| | Caliente | 83 | 76 | 92 | Mrs. Alma Williams | | | Ursine | 9 | 10 | 111 | Emma M. Lytle |
Washington
| | Washington | 52 | 45 | 87 | Beulah Riley |
Weber
| | Ogden Second | 189 | 151 | 80 | Clara Rumchel | | | Fruitvale | 13 | 10 | 77 | Pearl Allen | | | Letha | 36 | 31 | 86 | Katie Sims |
Weiser
| | Wells | 129 | 111 | 86 | Helen E. Bennett |
Wells
| | | 730 | 548 | 75 | Luceal R. Curtis |
Western States
| | Albuquerque | 46 | 43 | 93 | Anna Davis | | | Allison | 15 | 15 | 100 | Verna Behrman | | | Belle Fourche | 12 | 10 | 83 | Winnona Mulliner | | | Canon City | 6 | 6 | 100 | Mary F. Foster | | | Carlsbad | 16 | 16 | 100 | Blanche Gale | | | Carson | 4 | 4 | 100 | Essie S. Pope | | | Casper | 24 | 19 | 79 | Gene Drollinger | | | Delta | 8 | 8 | 100 | Marie Snider | | | Fort Washakie | 4 | 4 | 100 | Hazel Stewart | | | Fremont | 8 | 7 | 88 | Mildred Powell | | | Fruita | 14 | 21 | 150 | Alice Long | | | Gallup | 24 | 23 | 96 | Elsie B. Chapman | | | Glenwood Springs | 9 | 11 | 122 | Luella Dunsdon | | | Grand Island | 20 | 17 | 85 | Maude O. West | | | Greeley | 6 | 7 | 117 | Emma Lou Bibbey | | | Hanna | 17 | 13 | 76 | Eva Penman | | | Lead | 3 | 5 | 167 | Veda C. Richards | | | Montrose | 9 | 9 | 100 | Olive Bradshaw | | | North Platte | 11 | 11 | 100 | Artella Poulsen | | | Rawlins | 22 | 21 | 95 | Viola Anderson | | | Riverton | 9 | 11 | 122 | Vera K. Ross | | | Roswell | 5 | 5 | 100 | Ethel Nelson | | | Salida | 13 | 11 | 85 | Ida Mae Zamparelli | | | Silver City | 10 | 10 | 100 | Elva M. Wright | | | Torrington | 9 | 9 | 100 | Winnie Mae Wold | | | Trinidad | 3 | 3 | 100 | Rose Cupelli |
West Jordan
| | Bluffdale | 53 | 42 | 79 | Alice Kidd | | | Copperton | 71 | 53 | 75 | Gwen C. Knudsen | | | Herriman | 47 | 51 | 110 | Agnes Dansie | | | Lark | 26 | 37 | 142 | Lillis Sandstrom |
Yellowstone
| | Egin | 33 | 33 | 100 | Eva Dexter | | | Farmum | 14 | 16 | 114 | Geneva Peterson | | | Green Timber | 5 | 5 | 100 | Dora Stegelmeier | | | Heman | 15 | 20 | 133 | Fanny F. Hunter | | | Twin Groves | 38 | 45 | 118 | Pearl Rigby |
Zion Park
| | Hurricane North | 64 | 55 | 86 | Annabell Hall | | | LaVerkin | 47 | 49 | 104 | Sarah A. Sanders | | | Rockville | 28 | 23 | 82 | Nora Lester | | | Springdale | 39 | 35 | 90 | Nora C. Jolley |

Note: Reports were not received from Duchesne, Lehi, Minidoka, Oahu, Panguitch, Pioneer, Smithfield, Wasatch, and Young stakes. The book we give to those we love. A Bible perfectly expresses the depths of feeling which words cannot describe. It is truly the perfect gift... Which brings reassurance of faith and hope and a promise of peace on earth again. National Bibles Since 1862 At your Bible Bookstore. 3 Packages 25 Kelezene Wallpaper-Calcimine Cleaner quicklyeasily removes dirt, smoke, grimeno streaking, Leaves walls Fresh, Clean Just like New Twin Sailors Products BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. NEIGHBORHOOD STORE "HAS THE ADEQUATE 'MORMON' STORY BEEN WRITTEN YET?"... This is fast becoming a favorite topic of conversation wherever "Mormons" gather. You have a right to an opinion when you know the "Mormon" story. HAVE YOU READ: DANIEL HANMER WELLS PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH Please send for our price list. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE WEST" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SINCE 1863 At Your Bible Bookstore 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City SOLD ALSO AT YOUR OWN Salt Lake City, Utah FREE TO GIVE HER CHILDREN A HAPPY NORMAL FAMILY LIFE... The Outcome of a BENEFICIAL INCOME Heber J. Grant, Pres. J Salt Lake City, Utah