Informative Labeling of Hosiery This article, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, is of special interest to Relief Society women since it deals with the regulation on stockingsthe first regulation of goods in which informative labeling is a part of the requirement. Relief Society women, in cooperation with the National Council of Women, recently petitioned the Office of Price Administration to require that goods bear informative labels. HE new OPA "dollars and cents" ceiling price regulation for rayon hose, effective April 15, reduces the amount American women wil] have to pay for their stockings from 5 to 40 cents per pair. The total amount women will save on their hosiery purchases during 1943 is about 15 per cent and will amount to an estimated 50 million dollars on their hosiery bill in a single year. A feature of the new regulation of particular interest to Relief Society members and others familiar with grades and standards for consumer goods is the provision which requires manufacturers to make their hose according to grade specifications and to label the hose accordingly if they wish to receive the maximum price. Grade "A" hosiery will contain features designed to lengthen the life and improve service, such as reinforcements in the foot and top and a minimum number of inches of stitches in the leg to prevent "skimpy' construction. All stockings which fail to meet the OPA standards for Grade "A" will be classified and must be labeled as Grade "B," irregulars, seconds, or thirds, and will be sold at proportionately lower prices. The ceiling prices vary from 12 cents for the cheapest construction of seamless "thirds" to as high as $1.43 for the most expensive continuous filament full-fashioned rayon. After the present stocks of hose in the hands of merchants are exhausted, stockings will appear on merchants' shelves with the grade labels marked on the hose at the factory. The new regulation recognizes that the methods of operation and wholesale costs vary between stores, and that, consequently, the operating costs are different. Accordingly, two ceiling prices are established for each hose, depending on the "class" of store in which the sale is made. Following are typical ceiling prices: 51 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 3 cents or $1.05 45 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 81 cents or 92 cents 42 gauge full-fashioned ceiling price either 75 cents or 84 cents 340 Needle Bare-leg ceiling price either 47 cents or 53 cents In announcing the price ceilings, OPA has emphasized that faullfashioned hosiery is still in its infancy and that rayon as material for fullfashioned hose was largely experimental as recently as 1941. Studies are continuing to determine if the standards of rayon hose can be further improved and prices will be adjusted either upward or downward whenever experience proves this to be necessary. In establishing the standards and prices, OPA held extensive meetings with representatives of the hosiery industry, labor, retailers, consumer groups, and technical experts of the OPA and War Production Board as well as other standardization agencies in order to secure the best advice available in the country. Page 33]