Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon H L. MENCKEN wriites of wom- * an's accurate perception of reality, of how she sees through the externals and comes to grips at once with the essentials of a problem. If this is true, today's world offers plenty of problems to challenge her deepest powers. In America, for instance, the delinquency of girls under twenty-one increased in 1942 fifty-five per cent over the 1941 record. PEFORE Pearl Harbor, one out of 'e every hundred wage earners in America was a woman. Now the proportion is higher than one in ten. EMBERS of the Women's Parachute First Aid Emergency Corps are now making leaps from their planes, after a year's preliminary training. HROUGH a group of senators, American women are asking for a constitutional amendment granting them equal rights with men. So far, Russia is the only country in the world where women have full equality with men. In America there are still more than a thousand common law discriminations against women. Individual states, too, make and unmake laws. Women are asking for equal pay with men for equal work, and for equal control with men over property, children, and inheritance. N the worst days of the London raids, Myra Hess, humanitarian and noted pianist, organized lunchtime concerts for workers in the National Gallery. The effect was so heartening that now string orchestras play week days in churches and cathedrals, chamber music is heard in school auditoriums, and many clubs for the advancement of music and the other arts are being founded throughout England. ILKA TERNINA, famous Croatian soprano, died recently in Zagreb, Jugoslavia. In the Metropolitan, she introduced the role of Tosca to America. Many say no one else has ever sung that role as well. She was also famous for her Wagnerian roles. AUL Revere and the World He Lived In by Esther Forbes is one of the Book-of-the-Month Club's choice of the ten best nonfiction books of 1942. ANOTHER field has been opened to women students at Cornell University with the inauguration of a map-making course for them. The course includes both lecture and laboratory work. Page 323 EDITORIAL cm9 Vol. 30 3th Annual Conference Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants, it is expedient in me that the elders of my Church should be called together, from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south, by letter or some other way. And it shall come, to pass, that inasmuch as they are faithful, and exercise faith in me, I will pour out my Spirit upon them in the day that they assemble themselves together. And it shall come to pass that they shall go forth into the regions round about, and preach repentance unto the people. THE 113th annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held on April 4, 5, and 6, 1943. Once again, as at the two previous conferences because of the war, attendance was restricted to men holding certain callings in the Church, including some who formerly held them. Latter-day Saint soldiers holding the Melchizedek Priesthood who were free to attend were also invited to be present at the sessions, two of which were held on Sunday, three on Monday, and the final one on Tuesday morning. At the Sunday morning session, in addition to the usual Sunday morning Tabernacle Choir broadcast, the Church of the Air Address was delivered by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve on the subject, "Blessed is the Nation Whose God is the Lord." The hearts of all those present in the tabernacle as well as the thousands of listeners over radio station KSL were touched and made to rejoice by the moving and beautiful statement of President Grant which was read by President David O. McKay at the opening of the conference sessions, Excerpts from this sermon Page 324 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 44. And those made by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And President David O.- McKay are printed in this issue of the Magazine in the article by Elder Bryant S. Hinckley. 'The first and last sessions of the conference were broadcast over radio station KSL. Inspiring addresses were delivered and counsel given which will be heeded by all true Latter-day Saints. Church members were urged to obey the commandments of the Lord, to live lives of purity, to be loyal to Church leadership, and to render unselfish service to one another. As at the conference last October, saints residing in Salt Lake City opened their homes to house the conference brethren visitors. 'This condition was reminiscent of earlier days in the valley, when conference visitors were welcomed into Salt Lake homes and their visits were eagerly anticipated for many months. Such hospitality tends to strengthen the bond of fellowship in the Church. Conferences have ever been an integral part of Church procedure. On June 9, 1830, little more than two months after the Church was organized, the first conference as an organized Church was held at Fayette, New York. MAY 1943 No. 5 EDITORIAL The Prophet Joseph wrote of this conference: Our members were about thirty, besides whom many assembled with us who were either believers or anxious to learn.... Much exhortation and instruction was given, and the Holy Ghost was poured out upon us in a miraculous manner.... Such scenes as these were calculated to inspire our hearts with joy unspeakable, and fill us with awe and reverence for that Almighty Being, by whose grace we had been called to be instrumental in bringing about, for the children of men, the enjoyment of such glorious blessings that were now at this time poured out upon us. From that June day of 1830 until the present, conferences of the Church have been held, usually open to the general membership but at times restricted to the Priesthood. A review of the places where conferences have been held would recall 325 the scenes made memorable in Church history. As at the first,. So at the 113th conference, "glorious blessings were now at this time poured out upon us." Present at the last conference were the most powerful men now living upon the earth. At the head sat the Prophet of the Lord who holds the keys to powers pertaining to this earth and the heavens. When all earthly powers and principalities will have passed away, the power of the Priesthood will remain throughout the eternities. Church' members have ever rejoiced at the privilege of attending general conferences and longingly look forward to the day when conditions will once more permit general gatherings of the saints at general conferences, there to be fed the bread of lifeM. C. S. = Memorial Semple to GYefferson GREAT marble shrine to Thomas Jefferson was dedicated by President Roosevelt on April 13, 1943, the 200th anniversary of the birth of Jefferson. The memorial is situated on the south bank of the Tidal Basin in Washington, D. C. It is fitting that at this time the freedom-loving patriot, Thomas Jefferson, should be honoredThomas Jefferson who wrote in 1800, "I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man." Jefferson was one of the great modern liberals; he was the first American statesman to make education by the State a fundamental article of democratic faith; he wrote the first statute of religious freedom; he refused to be elected as president for the third time although requested by the legislatures of five States to be a candidate, and thus helped to establish a precedent which he believed to be of great importance under a democratic government; and he was the writer of the immortal Declaration of Independence. Abraham Lincoln said, "The principles of Jefferson are the axioms of a free Society." "The range of his interestsin geography, geology, botany, zoology, ethnology, agriculture, plantation, medicine and surgery, mathematics, 326 aeronautics, invention, government, education [music], languages and literature, religionis astounding." He compiled from the New Testament a book of Jesus' teachings known as Jefferson's Bible. He never used tobacco, never gambled, never played cards, nor was party to a personal quarrel. He was only truly happy in the country and was buried on his country estateMonticello, in Virginia, where he lies under a plain stone monument for which he chose the epitaph: "Here was buried Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of the American Independ ence, of the statute of Virginia for religious freedom, and father of the University of Virginia." The memorial temple, 176 feet in height, is circular and built in a modified form of the Roman Pantheon, with twenty-six [onic columns topped by a white dome. A nineteenfoot plaster statue of Jefferson to be cast in bronze after the war, stands in the interior between two American flags. 'The memorial completes the fourth point of a cross formed by the Capitol, White House, and Lincoln Memorial, with the Washington Monument in the center and the axis formed by the Mall. <~f Agnes Mm Bolto Appointed to Relief Society General Board PPOINTMENT by the First Presidency of Agnes M. Bolto as a member of the Relief Society General Board was announced Wednesday, May 5, 1943, by President Amy Brown Lyman. At the time of her appointment to the General Board, Mrs. Bolto was president of the Granite Stake Relief Society. Her testimony of the Gospel, her long years of excellent service in Relief Society together with her native endowments and specialized training, will qualify her for her new position as a member of the General Board. Her many friends will be pleased to learn of this appointment, and her new associates on the General Board welcome her as a valued fellow Board member. A short biographical sketch of Mrs. Bolto will appear in the June issue of the Magazine.