[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 6 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]

The Relief Society Magazine - July 1967, Vol. 54, No. 7 Rose Bower Revisited Vilate R. McAllister From Near and Far Over the years The Relief Society Magazine has surely been a testimony builder and a source of encouragement and knowledge, and I want to express my appreciation to you and all who contribute their time and talents to this wonderful Magazine. Elaine Vogt College Park, Maryland Words are inadequate to describe the true joy and appreciation that our Relief Society sisters have for the Magazine in Spanish. One has to have lived in the mission field in these areas where so little has been available in Spanish for so long to really appreciate the true feeling one has when such a beautiful publication is now made available to so many. Our missionaries have requested their subscriptions in Spanish because the Magazines are wonderful as a proselyting tool. Glenna M. Hansen Supervisor Guatemala-El Salvador Mission The precious joy of seeing a son build a tree house was skillfully pictured by Alda L. Brown in her poem "Tree House" in the October issue of the Magazine. Her talent is fresh and delightful, and I would enjoy seeing more of her poetry in the Magazine. Mrs. Tess Christensen Richmond, Utah I had to write to express my thankfulness for the beautiful story "Who Loves Here?" (first prize story, January 1967). How very true this story is. It brings to mind similar happenings. I am the mother of six precious little girls, ranging in ages from one to nine years, and, like Andrea, in the story, am expecting our seventh. I know that our girls are blessings and have brought us love and happiness. Dona C. Parker North Ogden, Utah In the past three years, starting from Scotland, I have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. I hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California Again I have received another wonderful issue of the Magazine (January 1967). I think our Magazine is a whole institution of learning and enjoyment. I have taken it since 1926, and have thoroughly enjoyed each issue. I especially liked the lovely poem "Love's Magic" by Leone W. Doxey (in January). Helen H. Sticken Salt Lake City, Utah Brother Burton's address (February Magazine) was surely inspirational and practical in analyzing "The Class Leader Makes the Difference." I was very much impressed with the story "A Star's Slim Light" by Alice Morrey Bailey (December 1966). It was perfect in form and content. I think I would have recognized it as hers without the name. What a marvelously gifted person she is. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah We are proud and happy to have the Magazine poet Alda L.

Brown in our midst, and equally happy to know that her poetry is being recognized as being worthy of presentation in the Magazine. Mr. and Mrs. Ray Christensen Smithfield, Utah I especially enjoy the poetry in the Magazine. "Tree House," by Alda Brown in the October issue was very good. Mrs. Roderay Newton, Iowa PART II (Continued from the June Magazine) CHILDREN CHURCH WORK TRAVEL Emma Rae McKay Ashton FUN TIMES WITH MOTHER ARE REMEMBERED BY THE CHILDREN On the children's eighth birthdays Ray gave them a party to which they could invite their friends for well-planned games, cake, and ice cream which she had prepared. On Saturdays, she took her young family shopping with her. Often the excursions ended with a silent movie starring John Bunny, Fatty Arbuckle, and the Old Maid, or a Big Bill Hart cowboy show, features she knew they would enjoy. The Barnum and Bailey circus was an exciting annual affair the McKays seldom missed. The wise parents suggested the children work for their show admission by digging dandelions out of the front lawn. They paid them a cent for every ten they dug. The evening before the intended matinee, their father, with a twinkle in his eye, would say, "Which would you rather do, keep the money, or go to the circus?" One of them invariably would say, "Keep the money," but being outvoted, would accompany the family to the anticipated event. When her children were young, Emma Ray McKay served as president of the Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society. Determined to make a success of this position, she bundled her baby in his carriage, and pushing him, made personal visits to the sisters of the ward, inviting them to attend the Relief Society meetings. Her diligence was rewarded. The membership increased from twelve to ninety. Later, she was asked to be counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency and traveled to the various wards on a streetcar, again taking her children with her. When she found this a hardship as her family increased, she was released from this position. She then served as a teacher of the Religion Class in the Ogden Fourth Ward, then as president of this organization for two or three years. Being able to accompany her children every week proved to be more compatible with her home situation. To her, home and her children came first. 'resident David O. McKay and Sister McKay, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1949.