[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 485 | Special Feature | Emma Ray Riggs McKay Part II Emma Rae | McKay Ashton]
[Emma Ray Riggs McKay Part II Emma Rae McKay Ashton]

485 July 1967

 Through this organization and the Sunday School, her children received valuable experience appearing before an audience. She directed two children's plays and a duet, "The Lord Is My Shepherd," in which one of her boys sang the alto part. She always insisted upon hearing her children give their talks aloud at home before they spoke in the meetings. "Let me hear it," she urged. "No, I don't want to say it to you." "Yes, come on. Just let me hear it." Her coaxing netted results. She corrected mispronounced words and coached them on standing up straight, speaking loudly and clearly, and in memorizing the thoughts they wished to convey. Under no circumstances, would she allow them to read their talks. These wonderful parents built family traditions. Christmas at the McKay home was (and is) a joyous holiday, with everyone participating in the fun. Secrets were whispered behind closed doors, for surprises were part of the excitement of Christmas. Many of the gifts given were handmade, secretly worked on weeks before the December holiday. Santa Claus was real; so were brownies, who reported to Santa each child's daily behavior. The Christmas tree was truly their own well-earned. The two oldest sons, with their father and uncles, obtained permission from the property owner to cut trees in Ogden Canyon. They climbed the mountain in the snow, tramped from one evergreen to another until they spied the prettiest and bushiest, chopped it down and hauled it home. Since it was too big, it required much sawing and shaping to fit the corer of the living room. Their mother always let the children trim the tree. She showed them how to string cranberries and popcorn and how to drape them in artistic loops from branch to branch. Red and green balls with silver tinsel and a star at the top completed the traditional decoration. She made each of her children a red and white felt stocking which Santa, on Christmas Eve, filled with nuts, apples, candy, and a surprise in the toe. She even filled them again with goodies on New Year's Eve, the present being a new toothbrush for each family member. Summer traditions, too, were formed. The children looked forward to the close of school. Summer vacation was spent on the farm in Huntsville (riding horses, jumping on the hay from the beams in the barns, and enjoying a daily dip in the delightful old swimming hole). For Ray, the change meant careful planning and organizing, washing, ironing, cooking, and packing. Each summer the Model T, or current automobile, was piled high with supplies of food, clothing, EE 486 Emma Ray Riggs McKay 95 Rs SOTO Emma Ray McKay and Robert R. McK y, at Durham House, Liverpool, England. President McKay presided over the European Mission during 1922-24, -_ and bedding. Life on the farm was hard, with few modern conveniences, but for years she made the best of the situation and madea. Happy home for her loved ones. SUPPORT OF MISSIONARY HUSBAND In her memory the year 1920-21 stands out as the most difficult of her married life. Elder David O. McKay was appointed to make a world-wide tour of the missions of the Church. His traveling companion on this journey was Hugh J. Cannon. From the time the two missionaries sailed for Yokohama, Japan, December 20, 1920, Emma Ray McKay shouldered the full responsibility of caring for their six children and of managing their city home and the Huntsville farm of fifty acres. Without complaint, she supported her missionary husband fully by performing creditably her part of this important call. She exhibited courage and resourcefulness and relied heavily on prayer and faith in the Lord to make this possible. Her task was more difficult because her eldest son was serving his mission at this time. 

487 July 1967

 Frequent letters to Ray related in detail the glorious experiences of her husband and Elder Cannon. From. Yokohama, the missionaries traveled again by boat to Peking, China, where Elder McKay felt impressed to dedicate the land of China for the preaching of the gospel. After a second visit to Japan, they continued their voyage to Honolulu and remained on the Hawaiian Islands nineteen days visiting and holding meetings with saints and missionaries. Then mail arrived stating that the only way they could board a ship for the South Sea Islands was to sail to the mainland to catch it. When they arrived on the West Coast they would be so near yet so far away from home! They landed at San Francisco March Ist. Here a pleasant surprise awaited them. In his diary Brother Cannon wrote:... To our delight we found that Presidents Grant and Ivins had come to San Francisco to meet us and had brought with them Sisters McKay and Cannon. And right here it may not be out of place to mention that busy men, men who are burdened with vast responsibilities, who will take two women, each with a baby six months of age, on such a trip, are surely thinking more of the happiness of others than of their own personal comfort. While we were endeavoring to meet some difficulties in connection with our transportation, word came of the death of President Anthon H. Lund, and it was decided that we should return home and wait the sailing of the next boat! (Journal History, March 28, 1921) This was a welcomed respite to the McKays' loneliness for each other. The brethren and their wives traveled by train to Ogden where they remained until March 25th, during which time they attended the funeral of President Anthon H. Lund, visited Church authorities and family members, and made preparations for their extensive journey. A week later, while en route on the voyage to the Tahitian Islands, Hugh J. Cannon wrote a letter to the Deseret News which paid a witty compliment to his distinguished companion: "Brother McKay has rounded into perfect form as a sailor. Since leaving San Francisco he has not been seasick for a moment; but there have been times when, after looking at the pictures of his wife and kiddies, he has seemed to be see-sick."' At one time during her husband's absence, Emma Ray was in financial difficulty. She needed a sum of money to pay some obligations. She had exhausted all her resources without being able to raise the money. Finally, the night before the money was due, with tears rolling down her cheeks, she knelt by her bed and prayed with all her heart that Heavenly Father would show her a way to obtain this needed sum. The next morning there was a knock at the door. The visitor was 488 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Brother John Hali, a member of her stake presidency. Since he had never paid a social call on her before, she was somewhat surprised to see him when she opened the door. His first words were, "Sister McKay, do you need me? When I was down at the corner, something told me to turn up this way." "I should say I do. Won't you come in and sit down?" She then related her problem and the ways she had tried to solve it. He promptly produced his checkbook from his pocket and wrote her the needed amount. "But, President Hall, I have no collateral, and I don't know when I can repay you." '"Never mind, David O. Will see to it when he returns."' Her letters across the world, always optimistic, always encouraging, assured her missionary that he needn't worry about family affairs or his loved ones. All was well. It was truly a joyous reunion the afternoon of December 24, 1921, when David O. McKay stepped off the train at Ogden into the arms of his waiting family. To a reporter he said, 'After traveling 62,500 miles through the world, the dearest spot to me is home." THE EUROPEAN MISSION Eight months later Emma Ray McKay received a new challenging assignment. September 14, 1922, David O. McKay was appointed by the First Presidency to succeed Orson F. Whitney as president of the European Mission. She would accompany him with their five children, the youngest only two years old, the eldest being already on a mission in Switzerland. The call came as a surprise to the McKays, but they readily accepted it and began at once to make preparation to depart for their field of labor. They sailed two months later, November 17th, from Montreal, Canada. Ray's consistent activity in Church organizations, her rigorous year carrying the household responsibility alone, and her selfless attitude prepared her for the additional weighty responsibilities that awaited her in this new call. Ray had been set apart as the head of all the women's auxiliary organizations in Europe. She spent much time visiting, instructing, writing lesson plans, and encouraging a high quality of leadership among the Relief Society, Primary, and YWMIA workers. She was mother to 500 missionaries who were influenced for good by her love and kindness. Her labors were strenuous; her travel almost constant. During the two years, she traveled with her husband some 2,000 miles attending the conferences in the British Isles and touring the missions each year in Holland, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Switzerland, and Belgium. Early in January 1924, the busy couple boarded a steamship from Marseilles, France, bound for Syria to visit the 

489 July 1967

 Armenian Mission, holding meetings for three days with the rejoicing saints. She was admired and praised by the women of these countries for her wise counsel, helpful advice on home and spiritual matters, and her exemplary leadership. Then, in August 1924, word came from the First Presidency that Elder James E. Talmage had been appointed to preside over the European Mission and that upon his arrival in Liverpool, President McKay would be released. Another mountainous task, a major operation, for Ray McKay to uproot her family again from their established home, pack, and be ready to board the steamship Montcalm on Saturday, December 6, 1924, for home. All of this was sandwiched in with visits to missions for final instructions and fond leavetakings. RETURN TO SALT LAKE CITY Upon their return to Utah, they began residence hunting in Salt Lake City. A comfortable apartment at 50 West North Temple Street was home until the spring of 1939, when they moved to a house at 1037 East South Temple Street. Emma Ray's activities, many and varied, kept her busy. For a number of years she was active in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society presidency until an operation terminated this call. She worked for the Red Cross during World War II and served a year as the president of the Parent-Teacher Association of the Lafayette elementary school. She enjoyed a rich social life with their hosts of Church, business, and civic friends, attended the theater, symphony, and special musical concerts. Homez-and her children still came first. She continued to maintain a high level in the spiritual and cultural atmosphere in the home. Keeping standards high was as natural as breathing. With complete unselfishness she guided those around her. "Won't you take the easy chair?" or "Let me help you," or "You may have my share," are her familiar phrases. In her daily routines she has manifested her selflessness. Every morning she has risen between five and six o'clock to prepare a nourishing breakfast for her busy husband and children; every day, with no word of complaint, she has kept warm the midday meal even though it might be served any time from twelve-thirty to two, depending upon her husband's appointments; every evening if he was detained, she would feed her family, but wait for his return in order to have the evening meal with him. "I know it isn't pleasant for Daddy to eat alone," she would remark. She is not only patient, loving, and understanding, but also beautiful in form and feature. One person remarked that she was the most beautiful bride she had ever seen. In her appearance in her house- 490 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Pra = 5: P-. 4 a" Fe - < - FAMILY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Picture taken on the Golden Wedding Anniversary of the McKays in 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President David O. McKay; Lou Jean McKay Blood; Llewelyn R. McKay; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, standing, left to right: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. Keeping she is always neat, and though soft-spoken, she is cheerful, with a sparkling sense of humor. She says, "Life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for somebody else." She lives as she teaches. In the April 1942 Relief Society Magazine, she wrote, '"True prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family, to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise and really be what they appear to be." Recently, in reminiscing about her beloved mother, one of Emma Ray McKay's children paid her this tribute: Mother darling is such an extraordinarily exceptional subject. Her spiritual qualities, her tenderness, and her unusual strength of character have been an inspiration for all of us. Her endless supply of strength and gentle love taught I us unselfishness and kept harmony in the family. Her sympathy and encouragement promoted intellectual thinking. Her respect and trust in her children 

491 July 1967

 taught us tolerance and consideration of others. Her beautiful, firm faith created an atmosphere in our home of unquestioning belief in God and his Church. TRAVELING COMPANION TO HER HUSBAND In later years, when her children were grown, she became her husband's constant traveling companion and won a place in the hearts of people everywhere with her graciousness. She gave a message of peace and prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their husbands and children. Through the next twenty-five busy years, Emma Ray McKay, ever by her husband's side, supported him fully when his work as apostle, and a member of the First Presidency carried him into all parts of the Church. With him she toured the Mexican, Hawaii, Southern States, Eastern, Central, Northern, and North Central States Missions, as well as various stakes on quarterly conference appointments throughout the United States. She was present at chapel and temple dedications, ribbon cuttings, and on other special occasions. January 2, 1951, at their home on East South Temple Street in Salt Lake City, President and Sister McKay celebrated their Golden Wedding Anniversary. It was a day for reunion and rejoicing for this happy couple, their devoted children, and members of their two families. Tributes paid to this beloved couple included some by their children who appreciated the fact that their mother had never been too busy for games, to tell or read a story, to play for them, or just to talk about their daily adventures. The children were grateful for being made to feel a part of their parents' active life of service, never left out nor neglected in any way. Monday, April 9, 1951, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in a Solemn Assembly attended by the Priesthood and members of the Church, Emma Ray McKay raised her hand to sustain David O. McKay as the ninth President of the Church. With tears of gratitude she realized her husband was vigorous, alert, and in excellent health to bear the demands of this great office. With pride and admiration of her capable husband, she knew that he was fully prepared by years of experience and training to carry on the duties of leadership as head of the great Church. From now on their travels would be confined not to the North American Continent, but would extend to visits with members of the Church all over the world. The next year, 1952, she accompanied her husband on his tour of the European Missions, and was honored in Finland on her seventyfifth birthday. It was pouring rain in the picturesque Finnish forest, but Emma Ray McKay's spirits weren't dampened by the weather. Standing 492 Emma Ray Riggs McKay under an umbrella, she smiled and expressed her appreciation as, one by one, twenty-one missionaries stepped up to her and each one presented her with a red rose. It was a memorable birthday party. Much good was accomplished on this eventful tour. The couple's travels, reported in news accounts, were followed with interest. President and Sister McKay personally greeted the members of the Church. They enjoyed renewing old friendships, and making new ones as well. Arriving home after this successful eight-week trip, they stepped into an enthusiastic throng of 2,000 friends and neighbors who had gathered at the airport to welcome them home. Ray McKay was presented with a bouquet of ten long-stemmed roses presented by groups representing the ten missions visited. The announcement that the Church would build two temples in Europe was greeted with enthusiasm. The poem Emma Ray McKay quoted in her report to the Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1952, expresses the power and influence of the personal touch felt by the travelers and those whom they visited. *Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine Which means far more to the aching heart Than shelter, and bread, and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er And bread lasts only a day, But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway. NJ r, The McKays continued the personal touch to members throughout the world, through meetings, handshakings, personal interviews, and talks in subsequent historic journeys to Europe in August 1953; then, in December to February 1954, a 32,000 mile air and rail tour of the South African, Uruguayan, Brazilian, and Central American Missions. For the first time in history a President of the Church visited in South and Central America. In 1955, President McKay observed his eightysecond birthday in Berne, Switzerland, where he dedicated the Swiss temple. With her husband, she appeared in several European countries with the Tabernacle Choir as it made its famous European concert tour. Earlier in the year, the McKays had traveled 45,000 miles touring the South Pacific missions of the Church. These 

493 July 1967

 Emma Ray Riggs McKay receives award as Utah Mother of the Year 1954 from Governor J. Bracken Lee. Emma Ray Riggs McKay historic journeys provided a boon to missionary work and attracted wide attention to the Church in the countries being visited. In 1953, Emma Ray McKay received during the MIA June Conference the honorary Golden Gleaner award, as evidence of the wide influence of her exemplary life as a Latter-day Saint wife and mother and "for all she has done to instill Christian principles in the youth of the Church." UTAH MOTHER OF THE YEAR In April 1954, she received honors as Utah Mother of the Year. She expressed her gratitude as she accepted her award, an impressive trophy presented by Governor J. Bracken Lee, before an overflow crowd assembled Sunday afternoon in the Garden Park Ward chapel. "I am thrilled with this honor of representing the mothers of Utah, and in behalf of all these fine mothers here and of the many hundreds of other wonderful loving mothers of Utah, I accept this trophy award with heartfelt thanks and pray that I may represent all mothers here in New York, and elsewhere, creditably." In connection with the presentation of this honor, her daughterin-law said this of her: During the travels with her husband hundreds of people of all ages, races, and creeds heard her talk encouraging better living, higher moral standards and better. Understanding between nations to bring us peace.... She has had audiences with and is at ease with crowned heads of Europe and other countries yet her love for children and home puts her on common ground with all people.... Young and old have felt her influence through the articles she has written instructing Christian principles, building perfect family relationships, and acquiring peace of mind. Many young people contact her personally and by letter seeking advice on love, marriage, family troubles, and divorce. Each is given her prayerful attention and personal answer. Mrs. McKay's life is one of beauty because her thoughts are beautiful. She believes, thinks, and tells only good about others. When asked to comment on the honor bestowed upon his beloved wife, her loving husband stated, "She has been Mother of the Year every day of every year to her husband, six living children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren."' A quotation from an article appearing in the Church Section of the Deseret News May 22, 1954, by Eileen Gibbons, tells of another honor Ray McKay received in 1954. 1954 is a year of double honors for Mrs. David O. McKay. Few women in the Church or even in the United States can claim distinction of being a "Mother of the Year" and also an honorary doctor of humanities. 495 3 - President David O. McKay and Sister McKay on their 66th wedding anniversary, January 2, 1967, at the Riggs home from which Emma Ray Riggs left as a bride in 1901. 496 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Yet Emma Ray Riggs McKay will within two months have achieved both when she receives an honorary doctorate from Utah State Agricultural College at commencement exercises May 29..=~ Mrs. McKay has influenced the lives of thousands of all ages through her numerous talks and writings on Christian principles, especially proper family life... Encouraging better living and harmony among nations.... The influence of Emma Ray Riggs McKay has gone far beyond the bounds of her own family. Her natural affection, cheerfulness, and understanding which are so evident in all she does have affected a great many throughout the world. FURTHER TRAVEL At the historic dedications of the New Zealand Temple, the Church College and two chapels in the South Pacific, Ray McKay was present to greet the thousands who attended these events. When they left the country, tears filled the eyes of many with love for them. Though an illness in February 1960, has curbed her activity, she has not been slowed down altogether, and honors continue to be heaped upon her. In 1961, she again flew with her husband to London for the dedication of the Hyde Park chapel. In May 1964, at the annual woman's week celebration, she was honored-as ''Ricks College Woman of the Year," and received Ricks College Distinguished Achievement Award. The citation reads: The purity of her life, the serenity of her spirit, the devotion of her service, and her unfailing good humor, modesty, and love have enshrined her in our hearts as the ideal Latter-day Saint wife and mother. She is the personification of the search for everything ''virtuous, lovely, of good report, or praiseworthy," and stands as a beacon of inspiration to all women everywhere. We lovingly honor this gracious companion of our beloved Prophet for her distinguished achievement in woman's most glorious work: sustaining a noble husband with love and courage, rearing an exemplary family with patience and understanding, creating a home life of kindness, refinement, and faith. In November 1964, at age eighty-seven, she attended five of the six sessions of the dedication of the Oakland temple. April 21, 1966, the Associated Women Students of the Brigham Young University honored her as their '""Woman of the Year," she being the first recipient of this: award which the AWS will present annually to motivate and inspire women students on the campus. The girls on the committee fasted and prayed that she would be well enough to be present. She did attend the event, enjoyed herself thoroughly, and thanked everyone for the lovely program and beautiful quilt presented to her made by the Honeyville Relief Society members. She was described as ''A woman of physical and spiritual beauty, a woman of pure thoughts and high ideals." 

497 July 1967

 cr -" PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY and SISTER McKAY Picture taken just before the Annual General Conference of the Church, April 1967 At ninety years, Ray McKay is happy, in good health, and still radiates a sense of humor. A son telling of his plans for a European trip said, ''Mother, why don't you join us?" 'All right," came her answer without hesitation. "Fine. We'll discuss the details later." When he left, she turned to her companion and quipped, "He knows he's safe." President McKay claims that June 23, 1877, was a most fortunate day for him because it was then that Emma Ray Riggs was born. He always credits his loving wife for keeping their long married life on an even keel. "She has never spoken a harsh word to me during the many years we've spent together." To any who would aspire to sixty-six years of happiness, President McKay gives this advice, 'Find a wife like mine."; 498 Map Showing the Route of the Vacation Family Vacations Can Be Funl Lillian Y. Bradshaw Part I Laughter and excitement vivid on our faces, everyone turned and caught our enthusiasm as the nine of us in green Hawaiian shirts all alike filed down the aisle of the train. This was both the beginning and the ending of a summer vacation we shall never forget ending because it was the end of six months of planning. PLANNING A VACATION Making our plans had become so much a part of our fun as a family that, as with Christmas, I mentally wanted to delay the day of unwrapping this beautiful, carefully wrapped vacation package, a package full of family togetherness. Excitement, work, and sharing of a common goal had made us as one for six wonderful months. Actually, this entire dream 

499 July 1967

 started five years ago when Blair, my husband, and I visited Williamsburg in Virginia and thrilled with the feeling of patriotism that penetrated our very beings as we stood in reconstructed rooms where once George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Patrick Henry had stood. It was then we vowed that someday we would somehow give our children the same thrill and opportunity. Last year was the year 1966. We decided I say we because, from the moment Blair and I enthusiastically told the children so long ago of our experience, it became "The Trip" the family would all make someday. And so from now on we means the family. May I introduce them to you: Russell, eighteen; Becky, sixteen; Jeffrey, fourteen; Kathy, twelve; Dick, ten; Suzanne, eight; Tom, three. Our destination, then, had been chosen but, more importantly, the purpose for taking the trip was indicated. We have found if one wants the ingredients of excitement and anticipation the kind that keeps everyone (teenagers, husband, and all) involved give the vacation purpose. It must have the element of adventure, something different, a challenge. Making Plans for the Vacation Seated at the left (front): Suzanne; back row, at the left, left to right: Jeffrey, Becky, Blair (the father); at the right: Kathy; group in front of Kathy, beginning at the bottom: Dick, Tom, Lillian (the mother); Russell. THE PURPOSE The purpose of a trip becomes the thread that gives meaning the one thing for which the family will remember this particular vacation all their lives. The '""Do you remember when?" kind of event. It might be a fishing trip. One year we decided to camp at Granite Creek, Wyoming, and test a five-gallon survival kit of dehydrated foods that was supposed to feed a family our size seventy-two hours. Another year we climbed Hole in the Rock, and by planning ahead, had a book to read about it as a family while we were there. Yet another year found us in Colorado and New Mexico tracing the migrations of some of the Indians who had once lived in that part of the country. Often the purpose developed as I watchfully listened to the entire family talk of plans around the dinner table. This is the moment I, as the mother, waited for, because it was from this point that anticipation really started and built up to a fever pitch before we were ready to leave. And so it was around the table we decided that, in 1966, since we planned on going all the way across country to see Williamsburg, we would also trace our Nation's history from whence our religious freedom came; and then trace the journeyings of our Church. We had always wanted to see the Mormon Pageant in Palmyra, New York.. Blair called the Church offices and found that the pageant would be held the last week in July. All of us crowded around the calendar. We set the date of departure Friday, July 15. It was now FebFamily Vacations Can Be Fun! Ruary. That gave us six months to plan together. TRAVEL BUT HOW? ~ From then on, little else was discussed except the trip. I enrolled in a Brigham Young University Church history class. In the evening, at home, maps were brought out and laid on the floor, and together we began to answer such questions as: How far are we going to travel? How much time do we have? Which route is best? Approximately, where will we be on Sundays? Will it be mostly travel or staying several nights in one spot? How much do we have to spend? How will we prepare meals? Do we intend to eat in restaurants? Do we have time to stop and prepare every meal? What would be the cost of motels every night? Is this the kind of trip wherein camping equipment (tents, sleeping bags, etc.) could be used? Should we travel by car? Is there enough room for comfort and naps during long distance driving? How much will the gas and oil for the trip cost? What about a camper or trailer? Where will the bags be stowed away? Watching the children scramble to see who could figure out the answer most quickly, it didn't take very long to have the facts we needed. For several weeks we searched to find some way of traveling four weeks, 6,000 miles across country, in the dead heat of a July summer, with seven children and enjoy it. Blair and I, and the children as they were born, had gone camping or boating, as a family, each summer from the time Russell, our eldest, was nine months old. We 501 oo _ diastase aS aed gS Seaman tis DA RE Il Lac YS OEE AR All Aboard! In front, left to right: Suzanne and Tom; back row, standing, left to right: Jeffrey, Dick, Kathy, Lillian, Blair, Russell. Had experienced traveling for years with a baby, a "portacrib," and baby bottles. So, after seventeen years, we were not inexperienced with the problems that arise when traveling with all ages. But now we had a new challenge. Four of the children were now adults. Where would we put all those long legs, especially all six feet three inches of Russell, and still have room for Tommy (who turned three on the trip) to take his nap and play around? Our former play and nap area at the rear of the station wagon was gone. We would have to travel long and hard some days. We wouldn't always have the time to stop and prepare our meals. Yet we couldn't afford to eat out all the time or have a motel every night. Having considered well all the challenges of traveling with our family, can you visualize the joy that was in our home when we discovered, after much searching and corresponding, that we could 502 lease a "Motor Home Bus" out of Denver, Colorado? From the brochure, we found w could eat, sleep, and live "on the move." The bus had a stainless steel sink, oven, and hot plates, a table for eating and playing games, which converted into a bed for the night; a refrigerator, shower and _ bathroom facilities, and a couch that could be made into bunk beds. There were also a double bed and two bunk beds in the rear where one could lie down and read or rest at any time.

Air conditioner, lights, and electric outlets operated off their own AC 110-volt generator, and so we could even use my electric frying pan and cook while driving. Best of all, the driver's seat was right in the bus, and we could all be together all the time. With automatic transmission, Russell and I could help with the driving. EXPENSES Now we had to make some real decisions and preparations. Of first concern was the saving of every penny by the children as they sought work of all kinds. We decided as a family, that they ~ would pay for all our eating out expenses and all the admission fees, and make all the decisions as to how it would be spent. My regular food budget would take care of all the meals eaten on the bus. The bus expenses would be Blair's and my responsibility. It was my responsibility, also, to carry the travelers' checks for the money the children had earned, but Jeff, fourteen, kept an accurate record of all expenses, deducting from the total on hand, so that at any given moment he would know how much was in the "kitty." He kept the account in a special small book I bought, just large enough to fit inside his pocket. Becky, sixteen, carried all the change. We let the children decide what was worthy of their hard-earned cash. This turned out to be one of the brilliant decisions. Never did we have a moment of teasing for incidental expenses on the entire trip. On the contrary, it was Blair and I who suggested, after an exceptionally long, hot day that, perhaps, this one night we might stop at a motel with a swimming pool and refresh ourselves. When the children realized the amount that would have to be spent from their money, they declined, and said we had better save for something really special later on. Russell was given the responsibility of keeping an accurate record of all costs for the bus oil, gas, and other expenses. This, too, he kept in his own special book.