[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogy - Lesson III - Approximating Dates]

Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III — Approximating Dates. If the class will open their last lesson on Genealogy in the April Magazine, on page 203, the form there given will furnish this month's lesson. You will note the first name, William Young, who is said to have been born "about" 1698. You will find other dates on this form with the word "about" placed just before them. Again, you will see that this same William Young is said to be, in the "Where 
 Born" column, "of" Hopkinton. So are his wife and two children. While his grandchildren are all born in Hopkinton. Now these two words, "about" and "of" are used very carefully by the true genealogist. We may be permitted to guess at dates and places of birth under certain conditions. If we have evidence that a man really lived in a certain town, we may say that he was "of" that town. We should not say that, however, unless we have good evidence to substantiate that fact. We do wrong to give haphazard facts, or to make loose guesses as to where and when persons were born or lived. So, too, there is a pretty safe rule to be followed in estimating a man's birth, if we have dates to work on. Even then we should not do parents or children unless we know that he lived. It is true we have all had parents and grandparents back to Adam; but we cannot assume that their surnames were the same as ours; for, the habit of surnaming people is a comparatively modern one. If we have the Christian names of our dead kinspeople and some dates and facts to go on, we may approximate some dates, and some facts. For instance: we do not know when William Young or his wife Hannah were born; but we know when William's son Joseph and his daughter Elizabeth were married. Elizabeth, the oldest child, was married 22nd June, 1743. Assuming that she was about twenty years old, when she was married — which is a good average assumption for a woman's age at marriage — then she was born in 1723. Next, if we assume that her father was about twenty-five years old when Elizabeth was born — that also being a safe average for a father's age on the birth of his oldest child — William Young would be born "about" 1698. William's wife Hannah would be in all probability about five years younger than her husband. So now, we may formulate a rule for: APPROXIMATING DATES. Allow five years between the ages of the parents, and twenty-five years between the father and his oldest child. In other words, twenty-five years between generations is a pretty safe average in approximating birth dates. If you will take the trouble to go back on your own line, for a century or two — if you have a long pedigree — you will find that your dates fall pretty well in this average. If you have any one date, you should not approximate any other date. There is one point, however, which must be emphasized in this matter: always label your "guess" facts and dates as such. When you are guessing at a person's birth date or place of birth, use the words "about" and "of." Then everybody knows these are approximated facts and dates. It is unnecessary to guess at birth dates, if you have death dates, dates of burial, of marriage, of deeds or other fixed dates for the person. It is only when no date at all is known that you are justified in approximating a birth date. And even then, no death or marriage date should ever be approximated. A man is certainly born, but he might not have been married at all, although the father of a family. If a man is spoken of in a record as a widower, you may safely write in the death column that his wife died "prior to" the date of his second marriage; and in that case, there is no need of approximating a birth date for the wife. The same rule holds good concerning the date of a man's death when his wife is spoken of as a "widow." You can say that he died "prior to" the date of the widow's second marriage, repeating the marriage date of the widow in the death column of the first husband, preceded with the words, "prior to." For example: NAME When Born Where Born May Died 17 10 Mr. Smith of Boston, Mass. Prior to 2nd Marriage May 5, 1705 Mrs. Mary Smith, (widow) John Jones