Address Remarks of President Heber J. Grant at the Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1937
I AM happy to be here this afternoon. This is a marvelous audience. I doubt very much if in any other land or clime an audience of this kind and size could be gathered from the same number of people that you represent. I have an abiding and perfect faith in the Latter-day Saints, and a perfect and abiding faith in the triumph of this great country of ours. It is a land choice above all other lands, so the Lord has declared. I am thoroughly converted to the fact that in no other part of the world except America could the Church of Jesus Christ have been again established on the earth. We should be proud of our heritage, and each and every one of us should be proud beyond our power of expression that God has seen fit to give to us the Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ?the plan of life and salvation?not only the plan of life and salvation in the great hereafter, but that which gives us the laws that if observed in this life will bring health and vigor of body and of mind to us.
I have often said to you good sisters in meeting here, that it fell to my lot to be so intimately associated with the Relief Society from boyhood until my mother retired after thirty odd years' service as president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, that I am almost entitled to be called a charter member of the organization. Had it not been for her loss of hearing, I am sure my mother would have been perfectly willing to continue to labor for the advancement of the Relief Society, unless it was deemed wisdom for her to retire. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that the statement, "It is more blessed to give than to receive" is from God our Heavenly Father. There is no doubt in my mind that the giver shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. I think that the Relief Society has done and is doing today a very remarkable work in this Church, and their work is appreciated very much by the First Presidency of the Church and each and all of the General Authorities.
Now the Church is receiving world-wide publicity. This has not only been. Complimentary and laudatory, but to tell you the truth it has been far, far overdone. We have been given more credit by far than we deserve. We are attempting to get our people not to be satisfied to take charity, if it is possible for them to earn their own living, and even to be ready and willing to make some sacrifice, even though they might be offered a little more in charity than they could earn themselves; we do want them to earn what they receive. We are told we have to earn our bread "by the sweat of the brow." I believe there may be a disposition on the part of some Latter-day Saints to say, "Well, after we get to be sixty-five, we will not have to work any more." I want this body of good sisters to know that I have done just as much work for the past sixteen years, since I passed sixty-five, as I ever did before, and with the blessing of the Lord, if he will let me stay here another fifteen or sixteen years?which I doubt?I want to do just as much, if not a little more, than I have done in the last sixteen years. I am a firm believer that work does not kill anyone, but that laziness does kill a man at an early age. There should be in the heart of every man and woman, the cry, "I am going to live. There is nothing given to me but time in which to live, and I am going to endeavor each day of my life to do some labor which will be acceptable in the sight of my Heavenly Father, and if it is possible, do a little better today than I did yesterday."
I am delighted with the wonderful publicity that has been given and the favorable reports that are being made about our Security Program. At the same time we have to work, and work hard, and more and more diligently, and do our duty better, or we are not going to live up to the reputation that we now have. Our reputation has been so bad in the past that many people felt we were worthy of the same treatment as the Savior, that we ought to be crucified. Today our reputation is getting to be fine, and perhaps better than some of us deserve to have. The Presidency are very anxious indeed, as are all the General Authorities, that to the very best of our ability we live up to our reputation.
I should like to repeat the last sentence from the message of the First Presidency:* "That each individual family shall be helped in its efforts to help itself."
There are many Latter-day Saints today who are actually accepting relief, and they own land. They should cultivate it. I thank the Lord for a Relief Society mother, devoting her time by working with a needle and thread to support herself and me, when bread was good many a time in our home without butter, because we could not buy any butter. We went to bed early (and no boy wants to go to bed
*Note: The message of the First Presidency referred to in this article was published in the November issue of the .
early) night after night because we had plenty of bed-clothes, but no fuel. My mother managed to buy a ton of coal when I was a boy, and it cost $30.00. We also sawed wood for fuel, but quite frequently we did not have the wood to saw. Upon one occasion, when it was raining, the rain was coming into our home through the roof that leaked. Mother had a pan on the floor to catch the water. Bishop Woolley came in and saw the pans on the floor, and he said: "Why, widow Grant, I will put a new roof on this house of yours at once, and I shall take the money from the fast-day donations." Mother said, "Bishop Woolley, you shall do nothing of the kind. When I finish this little piece of sewing that I am working on, I will buy a few shingles and patch the holes in the roof. This place is not worth a new roof, but I am going to keep it without any help from the Relief Society or the Bishopric until my boy can build me a new home."
The Bishop went away and said he was sorry for Widow Grant if she had to wait for that boy of hers to build her a home, for he was surely the laziest boy in the Thirteenth Ward. We cannot always tell what boys or anybody else will amount to. If a boy has a good mother he is apt to be just like her, and if the mother works early and late, the boy is very apt to work early and late too. As a boy I worked many times until midnight, and even until one o'clock in the morning. The Bishop christened me "lazy" because I spent days, weeks, and months throwing a ball against the back of his barn, when he thought I ought to be doing something of value. Thank the Lord for a mother who encouraged her boy's ambitions, even in playing ball, as well as in work. Being an only child
ADDRESS

I was raised like a hothouse plant, and when I joined the baseball club my official name was "Sissy." I remember that I said I would play in the nine that won the championship in the Territory of Utah, and I did it, but I had to practice throwing the ball at the Bishop's barn while in the process of learning to play ball.
Now, I absolutely know if some people would farm their land they could live, and live well, but they will not farm it, because they can get more if they remain on the farming dole. The story has been told of a banker who was approached by one of these good people for a loan. He said: "Certainly. I have often loaned you money, and will be glad to do so again, if you will give me a mortgage on your crop. The man replied: "Oh, I am not raising any crops, but I will give you an order on 'Uncle Sam.' I get more money by being on the dole."
That kind of spirit is not the spirit that should belong to a Latter-day Saint. I hope that is just a story. It seems almost incredible to me that anybody could make such a statement, but I have it from the mouths of presidents of Stakes that there are individuals in their stakes and communities who are "lying down", when, if they would farm their land they could take care of themselves.
SO far as cigarettes are concerned?a person is really and truly not using good judgment who will smoke cigarettes or anything else. Why? Because he is just simply burning up money, exactly the same as though he took the money itself and burned it. He is injuring his physical and mental capacity as well. Those who smoke are to a certain extent destroying those fine qualities of manhood and womanhood?courtesy and kindness. You know that years ago when traveling by train there would be certain sections set aside for smokers; now I would be glad if there was a place for non-smokers. I would be much obliged if there were a small part of the diner where I could go and not have four young girls behind me and two in front smoking cigarettes. I have seen men who smoke whose hands trembled so that they could hardly sign their names. The cigarette creates an appetite for itself, and the habit of smoking cigarettes is one of the hardest and most difficult things in the world to overcome. It is absolutely no good morally, intellectually, physically, or in any other way. The Lord has said: "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation." It is the will of the Lord to us as a people. Every father and mother should make it their particular business to set an example worthy of emulation in keeping the Word of Wisdom, then the children are free to do as they wish, and if they do not keep the commandment, there will be no charge laid to the parents.
REJOICE in the Gospel. I rejoice in being able to say to you good sisters, than whom there are no better people, you are the salt of the earth. The outlook for American agriculture, in Professor Ogburn's judgment, is by no means a rosy one. Price-fixing arrangements and crop-production schemes, he thinks, are of little value in view of the far-reaching consequences of the increasing application of machinery to agriculture. The social and economic consequences of the tractor and the mechanical cotton-picker, for instance, are disturbing to contemplate.
In concluding his remarks, Professor Ogburn paid tribute to President Roosevelt's ideal of "a national minimum", as a worthy goal toward which social work and political action should be consciously moving. The question: What constitutes a minimum standard of living for the great masses of America, is itself a challenging consideration. More difficult than that, however, will be the reorganization of our social, economic, and political life so as to produce, for all concerned, this national minimum of decency and social justice.