ADDRESS
President Grant In Holland and Scandinavia By Ramona W. Cannon
AFTER the Centennial Conference in England, President Grant made a trip of three and a half weeks' duration to Holland, Hamburg, Sweden, and Norway, holding meetings in large halls which were filled to capacity. Perhaps no one in Zion can fully understand what it means to the European Saints to see and hear the President, for whom they feel a veneration almost like that due a heavenly visitor. "One of a city and two of a family," they are accustomed to gather in small groups, frequently in cold and unattractive meeting houses, a mere handful of scattered people, fighting the battle alone, with the rest of their world against them.
From these large gatherings of Saints, friends and strangers, emanated a sense of belonging to something in which one could feel pride. The individuals absorbed a stimulating feeling of group power. In the opinion of President Clark, this uplift, this urge to go forward was the greatest result of the thronged Centennial in England.
President Grant's trip afforded him opportunity to dedicate the beautiful new chapel in Esbjerg, Denmark; to meet the presidents of missions, all the missionaries laboring in these countries, newspaper men, Saints and friends; also to consider chapel facilities, needed repairs, or changes. On an average he spoke an hour at each meeting. On Sundays two gatherings were held, except in Esbjerg where there were three. Missionary and public meetings were also held on week days.
Naturally on a trip of this kind, President Grant and those who were fortunate enough to accompany him, absorbed joy from the beautiful scenery of the countries through which they passed, and information about their various customs and social conditions. Every day was crowded with interest, but in each country certain things stand out in memory with particular vividness.
IN ROTTERDAM, Mr. Max Hirschfeld, representative of one of the steamship lines, who had been entertained by President Grant in Salt Lake twelve years ago, gave a dinner for him in a private room in a hotel. The centerpieces of deep pink roses with an intermixture of other flowers of harmonizing tints, was unusually effective, and the table was elaborately laid with cutlery. With some apprehension we observed at the point of each knife the array of sparkling wine and liqueur glasses usual to a formal European dinner. Also from silver bowls of ice on a serving table extended the slender necks of bottles.
When we were seated, the host arose and made a charming speech of welcome. He recalled Salt Lake vividly, remembered the number of his room at the Hotel Utah, the luncheon he had with President Grant, and an interview with a representative of the Deseret News. He drew from his pocket an old copy of the paper which carried his photograph and the interview. Meanwhile the waiters were serving about twelve varieties of hors d'oeuvres from a small wooden steamship, a sloop, and a sea creature, with smoke stacks, antennae, and other trimmings made of tiny tomatoes, olives, fruits, etc. Glass number one was being filled.
"You will try some orange juice?" urged Mr. Hirschfeld. With true continental leisure the dinner continued, course after course, beautifully served, for three hours, well seasoned with the attic salt of conversation. Strawberry, cherry, grape, and a mixed fruit juice were served in order, and coffee was omitted. Mr. Hirschfeld, the perfect host, remembered that there are several things in which "Mormons" do not indulge.
We had another delightful taste of Dutch hospitality in the home of a friend of the Church, who sprinkled our handkerchiefs with eau de Cologne as we entered, showed us her miniature back garden with flowers, lily pond, and a little tree in the center of a grass plot surrounded by a neatly trimmed hedge about nine inches high. Our hostess spoke quaintly of Sister Grant and Sister Lyman as their husbands' queens, and she served a dinner from some cherished recipes, which was certainly to the queen's taste.
INTERESTING and impressive were all of our experiences, yet most impressive was the light of the Gospel shining in the faces of the large congregations who were sitting in the presence of God's representative on earth, probably for the only time in their lives.
There are things which President Grant, or those who were with him will never forget: The touching beauty of greetings and farewells at stations and meetings; the Danish folk speaking in deep voices and with slightly accented English, "Welcome to Denmark! Come again soon;" the burst of beautiful singing from the choirs, with some songs sung in English in each country; the offerings of fruit and flowers; the speeches accompanying presentation of flowers in the services at Church.
Perhaps a composite of all these speeches, made in different countries and branches, but always in English would be as follows: "Dear President Grant, All our lives we have heard about you. We have sung about you, and prayed for you. We have seen many photographs of you and have dreamed about you. Never did we expect to see you in this life, and to be face to face with you, and have the privilege of shaking your hand. All this has come to pass. We thank you for making your long journey to visit us. We thank you for your kind words of inspiration and testimony. Never can we forget this occasion, and we pray that God may bless you with health and strength and inspiration and a safe return journey."