Utah State Conference of Social Work
THE Annual Sessions of the Utah State Conference of Social Work were held on the Campus of the University of Utah, November 12 and 13, 1937. Authorities in specialized fields, and speakers of national prominence discussed subjects of paramount importance. Mr. D. A. Skeen, President of the Conference, gave the opening address. Other outstanding speakers and their subjects were:
"Government and Labor"?Dean Brimhall, Division of Labor Relations W. P. A., Washington, D. C.
"Social Research as a Basis for Social Planning"?Frances Cahn, Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, University of Utah.
"Planning for a Community"?Roy Sorenson, National Executive Y. M. C. A., Chicago, Il.
"Community's Responsibility for Transients"?Miss Bertha McCall, Director of National Association for Travelers' Aid and Transient Service.
Inaugural address for School of Social Work, University of Utah, "Changing Social Institutions"?Professor W. H. Ogburn, University of Chicago.
"Policies and Procedures in Public Assistance"?Ruth O. Blakeslee, Director of Policies and Procedures, Social Security Board, Washington, D. C.
"Relationship of the Public Welfare Program to other Organized Welfare Programs"?Mr. J. W. Gillman, Director, State Department of Public Welfare.
"What the World Faces Today and Tomorrow"?Professor W. H. Ogburn, University of Chicago.
President Louise Y. Robison, with her usual grace and dignity, presided during the closing session of the Conference.
FRIDAY evening was the formal opening of the School of Social Work at the University of Utah. Preceding the meeting a dinner was held, at which the President and Board of Regents of the University of Utah were the hosts. Among the guests of honor were President Louise Y. Robison, and Professor W. H. Ogburn, of the University of Chicago.
President George Thomas presided at the evening session of the Conference, and made the public announcement of the Amy Whipple Evans Fellowship in the School of Social Work, granted by the General Board of Relief Society.
The following Provisions are suggested:
1. Applicant must satisfy requirements for admission to the School of Social Work at the University of Utah.
2. Applicant must be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
3. Applicant to be selected by a committee of the Relief Society General Board and Dean of School of Social Work, with special consideration as to personality, character, and scholarship.
4. Applicant's intention shall be to secure a Master's Degree in Social Work, research work to be available to Relief Society General Board.
5. Application must be made on forms which may be obtained from Dean of School of Social Work.