Social Work In An Age of Change
By Dr. Arthur L. Beeley Professor of Sociology and Dean, School of Social Work, University of Utah
THE opening of the school of social work at the University of Utah, was marked by an inaugural lecture, November 13, 1937, by America's most distinguished sociologist, Dr. William Fielding Ogburn, of the University of Chicago. The importance of the event and the high quality of Dr. Ogburn's contributions are such as to warrant the publication of a resume of his remarks on that occasion.
IT might be well to preface the synopsis of Dr. Ogburn's address by a statement as to the nature and scope of modern social work. Broadly defined, it comprises all of those social arrangements, both public and private, for helping handicapped people of every variety and from whatever cause. It is a non-political, non-sectarian enterprise, managed by an ever-increasing body of professionally trained men and women who believe that the social ills of our time can be made to yield to an unselfish, intelligent, and cooperative attack. The ultimate goal of social work is expressed in Professor John Dewey's famous phrase, "A sound human being in a sound human environment."
In launching its new school of social work, the University of Utah is concerned to prepare competent men and women in Utah and the surrounding states, for the major technical services in this new and growing profession. The curriculum of the school is organized on the graduate level, and it is the intention of the present University administration to build a school which shall not only meet the requirements laid down by the American Association of Schools of Social Work, but shall also conserve and promote the unique traditions of community people in the Rocky Mountain empire.
UNDER the title, "Our Changing Social Institutions," Professor Ogburn described the rapid changes that are now taking place in American life; the dislocations incident to the transfer of function from one social institution to another; and the tasks of modern social work in attempting to cope with these consequences. Five social institutions of greatest importance were singled out for analysis?the home, the church, local government, industry, and the state.
Most significant for the welfare and personality development of the individual are the recent changes that have occurred in the structure and function of the American home. One by one such functions as formal education, the learning of a trade, recreation, the preparation of food, and the manufacture of clothing, have been successively taken over by industry and government. The inevitable surrender of these functions, the original performance of which brought members of the family into frequent and intimate association with each other, has weakened the family as a social institution and enfeebled its influence upon its members.
This inevitable change has resulted in a cleavage of the individual's loyalty to a number of other institutions and other groups. One of the most unfortunate losses arising out of these changes is the loss of intimacy among members of the family group. These losses of family function and the corresponding enlargement of industry and the growth of public education have been due, in large part, to the development of science and invention. The applications of steam and electricity to the manufacture of food, clothing, and raw materials, are the fundamental forces which have caused the transfer of function from one social institution to another.
Regrettable as these losses are, their consequences must be faced and adjusted to. Professor Ogburn dealt briefly with the changing functions of the church and showed that in the middle ages, for instance, the church not only ministered to the spiritual needs of the individual, but also dispensed charity and looked after the sick. The church, like the family, however, has now been forced to surrender the education and medical care of its members to other social institutions, chiefly to the state.
The rapid expansion of modern industry, according to Dr. Ogburn, is due, primarily, to the invention of mechanical power, and to the growth of systems of communication and forms of transportation. These developments, in turn, have produced the modern city and the metropolitan supercommunity of our day. These vast aggregations of people, concentrated in comparatively small centers, make it impossible for the individual to enjoy the status and the intimacy that normally characterized his life in the small community. This lack of intimacy in urban life has resulted in an overemphasis upon the externals in personality, such as dress and personal appearance, with a corresponding neglect of character and the finer values. The greater prevalence of vice and crime in urban communities can thus be understood.
Of all the dislocations produced by our changing social institutions, however, none are so significant and far-reaching as those produced in the form and scope of government. The rapid expansion of industry, and the evolution of mass production, for instance, have produced such wide fluctuations in prosperity, that intervention on the part of government has been necessary in order to avert a total collapse of our social economy. The aggregation of capital and the evolution of corporate bodies has given rise to government control and intervention, in the interests of the general welfare. The very structure of the state is challenged by these enlarging units of business enterprise.
American industry and commerce are no longer confined to state boundaries. The intricate network of our present machinery of production and distribution could never have developed under the rigid control of local or of state government. Thus it is that there has been a rapid transfer of governmental control from the local community to the state, and from the state to the federal government. These transitions, however, are as yet incomplete; they call for a program of social engineering and superior statecraft which many political-minded persons are reluctant to approve. This unevenness or "lag" in our cultural development creates innumerable problems which it is the business of social work to overcome and to eliminate.
In such a society, according to Dr. Ogburn, national governments are bound to become stronger and stronger. His apparent leaning toward fascism, however, was more in the nature of a sociological prophecy than it was a personal wish.
IN a second lecture, "What America Faces Today and Tomorrow", delivered before the Utah State Conference of Social Work on Saturday, November 14, Dr. Ogburn dealt with a number of immediate and practical considerations arising out of the recent depression. He was not very optimistic about the permanence of our so-called recovery; the load of unemployment, and the surplus of population are far too large, he believes, to justify any feeling of security, unless plans for a revival of the "heavy" industries are launched forthwith.
The outlook for American agriculture, in Professor Ogburn's judgment, is by no means a rosy one. Price-fixing arrangements and crop-production schemes, he thinks, are of little value in view of the far-reaching consequences of the increasing application of machinery to agriculture. The social and economic consequences of the tractor and the mechanical cotton-picker, for instance, are disturbing to contemplate. In concluding his remarks, Professor Ogburn paid tribute to President Roosevelt's ideal of "a national minimum", as a worthy goal toward which social work and ? political action should be consciously moving. The question: What constitutes a minimum standard of living for the great masses of America, is itself a challenging consideration. More difficult than that, however, will be the reorganization of our social, economic, and political life so as to produce, for all concerned, this national minimum of decency and social justice,