APPRECIATION 47 Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JANUARY-?A friendly greeting for the New Year brightens the soul, like sunshine-stars on winter snow. ANTONIA BRICO, director of the New York Women's Orchestra, opened the winter season at Carnegie Hall. This orchestra has achieved meteoric success, and is one of the few not endowed. NORA GREGOR, Viennese actress, was married last December to Prince von Starhemberg. When she makes her debut as Lois Montez in the Vienna theatre she will really be a Princess. AGNES WAHL NIEMAN left the bulk of her fortune of $5,000,000 to Harvard University, without stipulating any particular use for it. As her husband who amassed this great wealth was a journalist, why not a school for journalism? PRISCILLA EVANS of Utah has been elected corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women. She was a delegate to the Council from the National Woman's Relief Society. Mrs. Evans is learned in the law, and has a charming personality. IDA TARBELL, at 80, continues her literary work with a calm philosophy and excellent judgment. OSA JOHNSON continues her explorations and hunting in Africa as she and her husband, the late Martin Johnson, had planned. MELIA EARHART, lost aviatrix, has been given recognition from Mexico for her record flight from Los Angeles to Mexico City in 1935, by a posthumous award of the Order of the Aztec Eagle. The decoration will be placed in Purdue University. MALVINA HOFFMAN received the 1937 award for eminent achievement from the American Woman's Association. Pearl Buck made the presentation. ANN JENSEN TIDD, 95, of Monroe, Utah, died last month. She held a record as a leader in Church work for 81 years. MARJORIE HILLIS, author of "Orchids on Your Budget," is giving entertaining talks on the smartest hats, frocks, coats and shoes, besides giving clever, not costly, ways of entertaining and making a name as a "smart hostess". CAROLYN WELLS, humorist, has written her biography? "The Rest of My Life" in her usual amusing vein. KATHERINE BURTON'S "Sorrow Built a Bridge," story of Rose Hawthorne, the novelist's daughter, and Catherine Carswell's, "The Tranquil Heart', story of Giovanni Boccaccio are wonderful pen portraits in biography. ISEBEL PATTERSON of New York is considered one of the best literary critics of the period;. The greatest among women.