BARKER General Presidency of Relief Society Assistant Manaper Amy Brown Lyman 1938 Ahead "Be ashamed to die until you have achieved some victory for humanity."? Horace Mann. FINIS must now be written for the year 1937. Like every other year it has brought its successes and joys, its failures and disappointments. The measure of its worth must be, HAS MANKIND PROGRESSED? Have we advanced educationally; has science contributed to well-being; are people more secure; how far forward
has this year brought us? "My Vocation," a recent publication, tells of the work of twenty-five eminent Americans from as many fields of usefulness, who have made very definite contributions to the information, guidance, inspiration and well-being of mankind?men who have shared in progress. Countless numbers there are, not listed in any book who have played equally constructive roles. Are you and I numbered among this group?
This is a season of stock-taking, the inventory time of year. It might be well for us to take inventory of self as well as of our goods and chattels. In taking this inventory let us list fairly our assets and liabilities, our strengths and our weaknesses. Too often in self stock-taking we are prone to magnify our weaknesses and to disregard our strengths. Someone has likened the mind to a closed room in which we live all of our lives. We walk about in this closed room day after day, year after year. On its walls we hang pictures representing our many efforts. We naturally key our lives to these pictures. If we shut our minds in this dark room with only pictures of our weaknesses and our failures before us, we lose confidence in our own abilities, increase our weaknesses and our fears. Thus we lose our power to DO in the program of life.
Why not then emphasize our strengths? Why not in this mind room hang pictures of the best things we have done, the successes that have been ours, holding before us the fine lesson we have given, the successful conference we have held, the life we have enriched, the strengths we have developed. Think of all the things we have done in 1937 of which we may justly be proud. What we have done we can do again with even greater success because of the experience behind us.
Latter-day Saints realize that our strengths are God given. Our Father has told us that we cannot all have all gifts but each is given his special gift or talent and it is expected that we shall use whatever is ours for the good of man. "For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God." "To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all be profited thereby." (Doc. And Cov. 46:11-12.)
In recognizing we have a strength we take the first step in its conscious development. The second step is putting it to active use. The Latter-day Saint Church provides abundant opportunity to put to use all of the strengths of all of its members for the good of all mankind.
This is a day of unlimited opportunities and alluring possibilities. We approach the New Year with enthusiasm and hope, beneficiaries of all that not only 1937 has given but the years and years that preceded it. Cognizant of our power and responsibility may we value the opportunities that lie ahead making 1938 a better year because we have lived in it.