The 1937 American Girl
A NATION-WIDE "cross section" survey recently made by the General Foods Corporation to discover facts about the coming generation of housewives, shopping at the nation's half million retail stores, brings to light some interesting and encouraging facts about the American girl of today.
Results of the survey were reported by Mr. C. M. Chester, General Foods Chairman, speaking before the seventh annual forum of the Herald Tribune Institute at the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mr. Chester reported that apparently six out of every ten American girls attend church regularly, the percentage of young city church goers being a trifle higher than that of country girls.
"One significant thing that we noticed," Mr. Chester commented, "is the modern girls' ambitions. She seeks self-improvement and financial independence. She wants marriage, children, and a college education, and she is willing to accept sacrifices to achieve her destiny. The 'clinging vine' type of girl apparently is gone from our midst."
Asked what they considered the smallest weekly income that a young couple could get married and get along with, the majority of the girls estimated between $20 and $30, showing them modest in their demands.
The survey indicated 94% of American girls consider a college education more desirable than in their mothers' day, and three-fourths of them feel it is now more important to take an active part in politics. Seven out of ten declare it is more important than ever to save for old age and more than half say it is more important today to own one's home than in former years.
More than half of the girls questioned had taken cookery courses in schools or colleges and three-fourths said it is more important than it has ever been to be a good cook. Mr. Chester in commenting said, "Apparently tomorrow's housewives are going to make husbands eager to come home for dinner!"
Latter-day Saints have taught from the very beginning the importance of high ideals and standards in the home. The mother is the potent influence in the home. Stability of the mother is the dominant factor in the stability of the home. To the degree homes are stable so will the nation be. This composite picture of the American girl of today, who will be the home-maker and mother of tomorrow is most gratifying.