Music Department
MENDELSSOHN
(Composer of "How Lovely Are Thy Messengers.") By Beatrice F. Stevens
FROM the long list of famous musicians, Felix Mendelssohn stands out as one of the best balanced, most wholesome and beloved personalities. When criticizing his work, we should think of him as possessing great talent rather than as a genius. One writer has said, "His music is bright and genial, clever and pure, manly and refined." His style can be understood and appreciated by the untrained as well as those educated in music. There is a tendency at present to underrate him, but his grandfather, was one of the greatest philosophers of his time. "Formerly," he said, "I was the son of my father; now I am the father of my son." Felix' mother was highly educated, spoke several languages and was an excellent pianist. She gave the first musical instruction to Felix and the other children in the family, often sitting with her knitting while they practiced to see that no time was wasted.
Felix was not the only talented child in his father's family; like Mozart, he had a sister who was also unusually gifted. Fannie Mendelssohn gave up a brilliant musical career when she
FELIX was born in Hamburg, February 3, 1809 and it was afterwards said that on that day, a fairy passed that way and bestowed all the graces upon him. In his life time, though it was not long, he knew what it was to have and enjoy great talent, love, fame and fortune to the highest degree. In childhood he was idolized by fond parents, brothers and sisters who had similar tastes and abilities. Their home was a mecca for talented and scholarly people. Thus he made friends who meant much in his life and perhaps greatest among them was Goethe.
His education was not confined to music but included a liberal university training and extensive traveling. Although surrounded by ease and luxury, the four Mendelssohn children, Fannie, Felix, Rebecca and Paul, were taught the value of hard work by their father who was extremely kind but a wise disciplinarian. Often they crept from warm beds at dawn to work at counterpoint, English, or to practice the Bach fugues.
Felix had considerable talent and love for painting and this influenced his musical compositions to a marked degree. He made his first public appearance as a performer at the age of nine and his talent as a composer was manifested very early in his life. He had written an Opera, choruses and chamber music before he was fourteen and at that time wrote the famous Rondo Capriccioso. At fifteen his first symphony appeared and two years later, his beautiful overture to "A Midsummer Night's Dream". This is one of his most perfect compositions.
When very young, he was responsible for the beginning of the revival of Bach and at nineteen he presented the first complete "Passion According to St. Matthew" by that great master. For this inestimable service, the musical world owes a deep and everlasting debt of gratitude to Mendelssohn.
Everywhere honors were showered upon him and at twenty he reached the pinnacle of success in London. The English people showed enthusiasm and affection for him almost beyond reason. At one time the Queen requested that he name some special favor she might grant him and he asked to visit the royal nursery. There he enjoyed himself entertaining the princes and princesses with music and fun. In 1846 he conducted the premiere of his oratorio, "Elijah", for the Birmingham Festival. This was his gift to the English people.
It was shortly after the death of his father, when Mendelssohn was twenty-four, that real romance and love came into his life. Saddened and greatly depressed by his great loss, he happened one day to be walking on the banks of the Rhine River, when a boat glided lazily by. In it sat a beautiful young girl with her lap full of flowers, and the loveliness of the picture was not lost upon the young man. So strong was the attraction, he immediately set about to find who she was and discovered that her name was Cecile Jeanrenaud. He lost no time in making the acquaintance of the family and found Cecile to be all that his heart said she would be. Her mother, the widow of the pastor of a little French church in the vicinity, was a gentlewoman, and her daughter had been reared in an atmosphere of culture and refinement, although they were in humble circumstances. The attraction was mutual and the two were soon betrothed. In the happy months preceding their marriage, he finished the oratorio, "St. Paul" which had been interrupted at the time of his father's death.
All the attentions showered upon him failed to spoil him. He remained genuine, sincere and unaffected. His was a warm and affectionate nature and his love of friends and family, deep and lasting. We have spoken of his sister Fannie who was so close to him. He never fully recovered from the shock of her death and it marked the beginning of his failing health. He spent the summer, following her death, in Switzerland occupying himself very largely in painting water colors. There are in existence today, thirteen of his large, well executed pictures of Swiss scenery. He was preparing to go to Vienna to hear Jenny Lind sing in his "Elijah" when he was taken suddenly ill and died November 4, 1847.
MENDELSSOHN is not placed in the highest ranks of composers of piano music although he wrote much that was very popular and many pieces have remained favorites. "His organ sonatas are of great value to students and place him in the foremost ranks of organ composers since Bach. He shows far greater originality in his works for orchestra; they are delightful in melody and orchestration. His violin concerto is perhaps better loved than any other; its themes are masterly and its difficulties are not excessive."
"His greatness consists not in the overwhelming effects characteristic of the music of a later day, but in calm, symmetrical beauty. In this he is unexcelled." His two oratorios, "St. Paul," and "Elijah," have brought him greatest fame.