	THE POLITICAL SITUATION.

	The present condition of political affairs in
Utah is certainly peculiar.  The Utah Commis-
sioners appointed by the President of the United
States, in accordance with the provisions of the
Edmund's bill, were too slow in coming her to
regulate the August election of the current year,
and consequently some of those who are so
anxious about the people of this little Territory,
felt something must be done.  They were not
willing to let well enough alone, when all was
peace and quiet, and allow the men who had
filled the several offices creditably and efficient-
ly continue until an election could be held ac-
cording to the provisions already made by the
statutes of Utah, and so communicated with
Congress upon the subject and stirred that hon-
orable body up to do something before the ad-
journment.  Pursuant to the request of the
Judges who, of course, were supposed to know
the real needs of Utah, Congress invested the
Governor of the Territory with power, to ap-
point men, to fill such offices, as would be, as
they considered, made vacant, by failure to
hold the August election.  However in limiting
the tenure of office, of men so appointed, to
eight months; it appears a great mistake has
been made, by those who should be thoroughly
acquainted with the laws of election in this
Territory, as no provision is made for any other
regular election except in August, save the
election for delegate to Congress in November.
Without elaborating upon the matter of the
term of these appointees of Governor Murray,
one may perhaps be permitted to give an opin-
ion concerning the authority invested in Gov.
Murray to act in this most important, on might
say vital matter.  This supremacy given to one
man over one hundred and fifty thousand people,
is utterly at variance with all the true principles
of a free government.  A free Republic, accord-
ing to the definitions given by the greatest
statesmen that America could ever boast, is a
government "by the people for the people."
Gov. Murray may be considerate and act with
great wisdom and prudence, but what does he
know of the people, their needs and wishes over
whom he has been authorized to exercise such
wonderful power.  The Governor has a splendid
opportunity now to manifest that nobility of
character that men in high positions should pos-
sess, or at least cultivate, in order to gain the
love and admiration of the people; although he
may esteem the regard of this people, their
prayers and blessings of little value, yet they
might be a richer mine of genuine wealth than
all he will ever receive from the public treasury
of the nation.
	It would be well for those who are so exercised
over Utah affairs to stop and consider, before
they enter the lists in a political campaign
against the people who wrested these desert
lands from barrenness and made them teem with
plenty for man and beast.

			[Column 2]
	There is no person unless the spirit of pro-
phecy was given him can tell what will be the
result of this adverse legislation being put in
operation here in this Territory.  It is too serious
a subject to make light of, and those who have
labored so diligently and continuously in making
Utah habitable and desirable, who have endured
hardships no tongue can tell, in settling the
waste places, need the wisdom of heaven to
help them in this emergency, that they speak
no evil, that they do nothing to bring them un-
der the condemnation of the Almighty.  "God
moves in a mysterious way his wonders to per-
form," and no doubt it is all in the great pro-
gramme, only we have not been permitted to
see what was to be done; until the time came
for this scene to be enacted.  However it is well
known to the L. D. Saints thaht God's hand is
over his people and He will protect those who
trust in Him and abide in his laws.


[Column 1]
