	MILL CREEK WARD, JULY 13th, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR FRIEND--The Primary Association
of Mill Creek convened in Conference at the
Ward Meeting House, Friday June 23, at the
hours of ten a.m. and two p.m. respectively.
President Ellen C. Clawson presiding. There
were over two hundred children present.
After the usual opening exercises, the reports
of the four Primary Association were read.
The exercises of the day consisted of songs
recitations, dialogues, questions &c., which
were well rendered. On account of the resig-
nation of the Secretary and Treasurer of the
Primary Association of the second district,
Sisters Agnes Merrill and Mary Smuel, were
selected to fill the vacancies.  Also spoke of
beans as a good thing to store up.  The Presi-
dent of each association expressed their pleas-
ure in having the sisters meet with us, and
listening to the many good instructions they
gave the children.
	Brother Lemmon and Plant, spoke encour-
agingly to the children and expressed their
pleasure in listening to the exercises.  Al-
together the children had a time long to be
remembered.
			MARGERY ANN NORTH. Sec.
			BEAR LAKE.
	Minutes of the meetings of the 8th Semi-An-
nual Conference of the Relief Society of Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in St. Charles meeting 
[Column 3]
house, July 15th and 16th 1882.  Saturday
morning 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Pres. J. P. Lindsay.  After the usual opening
exercises, roll called for R. S Stake officers
and presidents of the branch R. S. Statistical and
Financial reports from fifteen societies were
read. Minutes of previous Conference were
read and accepted. Verbal reports by the
Presidents of the branches of Relief Society, as
follows: St Charles, Pres. Mary Jacobs, Bloom;
ington, Pres. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st
Ward, Counselor E. Collins; 2nd Ward.  Pres.
M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Pres. M. Carlson.
Liberty, Montpelier and Bennington, not re-
ported.  Georgetown, by Pres. Lewis.  Fish
Haven Pres. Frances Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Soda Springs, Meadowville, Lake
Town, Randolph Woodruff, Saleratus Creek, not
reported, and Dingle Dell, by Pres. J. Sparks.
	The societies that were represented are all
in a flourishing condition. Counselor E. Collins
expressed her gratitude to her heavenly Father
for his goodness in permitting the people to
meet in Conference, under such favorable cir-
cumstances.  Said those who neglect attend-
ing their meetings will lose the Spirit of God;
and their minds will become darkened.  We
should do nothing to cause our Father in
heaven to withdraw his Spirit from us, let us
strive to keep all the covenants we have made,
and be humble before God at all times.  The
time is nigh at hand when the judgment of the
Almighty will be poured out upon all nations,
and the Saints will have some of these to con-
tend with; therefore let us strive earnestly for
faith to overcome. Advised parents to reason
and talk with their children in kindness, by so
doing they will gain an influence over them;
teach them to pray to God, and look to Him
in sickness, and He will hear and answer their
prayers. We should attend our meetings;
seek first the kingdom of God and all needful
things will be added. Treat the teachers
kindly when they visit you, and listen atten-
tively to what they may have to say. Sister
Sarah Holmes felt to respond when called up-
on, said it is a great privilege to meet together,
and talk of the things of God, try to overcome
the timidity which naturally oppresses us
when we rise to speak, we should study, read
and improve our minds, for we cannot be
saved in ignorance. Pray and teach your
children to pray in the family circle; they
will become accustomed to it, and will respond
whenever called upon in meeting or elsewhere.
Try to overcome evil, and do that which is
right. If the sisters felt as interested as they
should do there would be more of them present
on this occasion. We ought to be alive to our
duties. There is a great work to be done, and
the time is short in which to do it. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing, Benedic-
tion.
	2 p. m. Y, L. M. I. Association occupied
the afternoon. Sunday 16th at 10 a. m. Meet-
ing called to order by President Lindsay, choir
sang. Prayer. Singing. Pres. Lindsay said
we were all like children, striving to learn the
best methods of attending to our business.
Was glad to see so much liberality mani-
fested by the sisters, as there had been
in regard to the building the Temple. We
should all be anxious to have that build.
ing completed. Spoke of the necessity of
assisting to emigrate the poor from the old
countries.  Said we should cherish a spirit of
humility and attend to our prayers, both
publicly and privately. We ought to attend
our meetings and get spiritual food, for we are
as much in need of that as we are of tem-
poral food. Spoke of the great responsibility
resting upon mothers, in training their children
in the fear of God; said we should encourage
them to go to their Primary meetings. Gave
some valuable instructions on the subject of
plural marriage, and said we should take a


[Column 1]
course that would gain the confidence of all
with whom we may be associated. Encouraged
the sisters to patronize our Church publications,
especially the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Spoke
of storing grain, said the judgments would
commence at the house of the Lord, and we
should prepare ourselves to meet coming
events. Asked God to bless all the organiza-
tions of the Church and kingdom of our
Lord.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt said he felt well while
listening to the instructions given by Sister
Lindsay, and knew they were directed by the
Spirit of God. We are called upon to build
temples and send of our means to assist in
gathering the poor from the nations of the
earth, we should ask ourselves the question,
what have we done in responding to the calls
made upon us from time to time? We should
be liberal in doing good with the means which
God has blessed us with. Donate freely to
help build temples, gather the poor, and be
foremost in all that is good. We are apt to
be forgetful of these little things, and our
minds need stirring up often by those ap-
pointed to instruct us. Referred to the Bible
presented by the Relief Society, to the people
of St Charles for the meeting house, returned
thanks of himself and the people to President
Jacobs and Relief Society for their kindness.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction, F. McCann.
	2 p. m. Sacrament administered. Afternoon
occupied by the Primary Associations. Conf
ference adjourned until the 13th and 14th, of
January 1883.
				E. PUGMIRE Sec'y
				JULIS BUDGE, Asst. Sec'y.

	Statistical and Financial Report of the Re-
lief Society of Bear Lake Stake for the six
months ending June 30th 1882. Statistical,
teachers, 126; members, 451; total officers and
members, 575; meetings held, 129; average at-
tendance, 217; church papers taken, 164; WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, 34. Statistical, on hand
at date of last report, cash, $66.62 cts., pro-
perty 628.16; wheat, 635 bus. 22 lbs; Receipts,
cash, $220.23; property, 161.28. Disburse-
ments to needy, cash, 11.70; property, 13.76;
emigration, 47.25; temple cash, 131.00; pro-
perty, 25.90; home industries, cash, 14,87;
property, 27.55; books, cash, $10.00; mis-
sionary, 1.00; building property, 10.24. On
hand, cash, $145.75; property, 875.70; wheat,
635, bu. 22 lb.

	Semi-Annual Conference of Primary As
sociations of Bear Lake Stake, held at St
Charles, July 16th, 1882. Counselor Elizabeth
Pugmire presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and approved, after which the
financial report was read as follows. cash
recieved, $41.20; property, 9.45; total, 50.65;
Disbursements, cash, $21.44; temple, 14.80;
charitable purposes, 11,60; on hand cash 10.04;
property, 9,45; total, $67.33.
	Verbal reports were given by the several
presidents of the Associations. Coun. E. Pug-
mire addressed the congregation, and was fol-
lowed by Bishop Henry Lewis, Brother George
Osmond, Sister Holmes, Brother Thomas Mc-
Cann and Pres. J. Lindsay, all expressing a
pleasure in witnessing the advancement of the
children, and the diligence with which the
officers had labored. A good spirit prevailed
during Conference which was adjourned until
January 16th 1883.
				ANNIE LAKER, Pres.
