OUR GOD IS GREAT, AND NATURE IS
			HIS PROPHET.
Nature! glorious nature! ’tis of thee I love to sing,
And thy stupendous “changes,” how lovingly I ring;”
Well might the unenlightened, but the still adoring soul
Before thy Godly presence, bow down without control,
The child of God thou truly art, his image thou dost bear,
His handmaid, his beloved one! on earth, his chosen heir;
In all thy footprints, God is seen, and in thy beauteous
	hand,
And in thy smile, and fostering care, as witness thou
	dost stand
Of Him, the great Creator of all the eye beholds,
And all the starry worlds above, that the firmament
	unfolds.
Creator of all human-kind, in whom He doth declare
His image, both in form, and mind, eternally is there.
Oh! glorious nature! thou hast been a loving nurse to me
And ever fed, and filled my soul with glowing extacy!
In soft, low whisp’rings thou hast taught my craving
	soul to learn
The Alpha and Omega of a language that doth burn
Into the heart and brain of those, who with an ear attent,
Wait, ever listening to catch the message daily sent;
Its ministering aids are those that wait on nature’s call
It may come in the cataract, or in the cascade fall,
It may be written on the vault of Heaven’s ethereal blue
It may come in the starry night, when worlds appear
	to view;
It may come in the Summer rain, or in the zephyr breeze,
It may come in the running streams, or the language of
	the trees;
It may be in the flowers, the poets, nature names
For mirth, and galas, and alas! for solemn requiem
	claims;
In the oceans’ roar, or on the land, or in the ambient air,
Voices are heard by listening ears, yes, voices everywhere
The artillery of Heaven, ’tis grand to sit and hear,
With holy awe, and holy charm, but not one pang of
	fear!
It seems the voice of God to us, but not in lettered word
As when on some important deed the cannon’s voice is
	heard.
Yes! nature is a Bible—of beauty, love and dread,
An open book, upon whose leaves our Father can be
	read;
His God-like presence broods around, his voice too, we
	can hear,
From which in Eden’s garden Adam "hid himself" for
	fear!
May we so live that every day our hearts are joyful
	made,
And walk the earth and hear his voice, yet never feel
	afraid;
For oh! so much of love is seen, so much of care dis
	play’d
For all the denizens of earth, how can we be afraid?
The Druids worshiped ln their groves, in one of nature’s
	Fanes
A temple reared to nature’s God, without man’s aid or
	pains.
And even in this “polish’d age” methinks ’tis sweet to
	stand
Upon the silent mountain top with upraised eye and
	hand,
And feel there’s naught dividing us from Heaven’s eter-
	nal blue,
But only that ethereal veil that hides Him from our
	view.
Oh earth! I love thee, as a child loves home, and all
	that’s there!
My mother earth! thou art to me, the fairest of the fair.
And when within the sacred Book, we see thy future,
	grand,
It causes both the heart and brain to joyfully expand;
And realize how well content we’ll be with such a home,
All purified, and glorified, where God and Christ will
	come,

And visit with the ransom’d Saints, and with the Kings
	and Priests;
Whom they, the righteous, have redeemed from death,
	and sin released.
When all creation will pass thro’ a new immortal birth
The holy book says newness, both to Heaven and to
	earth,
Then NATURE, empress of the earth, all glorified shall be
And never more within her hand the dreadful rod we’ll
	see;
But in her sweetest, holiest moods, with aspect all be-
	nign,
She’ll wield her sceptre but in love, to weld and to
	combine;
No jarring elements will then,discordant wound the ear,
But “peace on earth, good will to man” be nature’s
	chanticle er.
August 4th.					HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
