ON THE DEATH OF A BELOVED BROTHER.

	Dear MOURNING FRIEND—I have just re-
ceived the letter that tells me of your loss; and
of your sorrow for the same; and at once, I sit
down to say whatever a sympathizing heart
may dictate, and make palpable on this paper,
that though far away you may realize that I
am near, and desire to offer a few words of con-
dolence that may soften your grief on the
removal of your dear brother from this stage
of action; he had been a great sufferer, and
there was no hope of a restoration to health,
and vigor; then we may rest assured he was
taken in love; "He is not dead but sleepeth."
Will you put on mourning apparel, and black
scarf for him, who is now covered with a glori-
ous attire of joy and gladness, who is adorned
with raiments as white as the unsunned
snow? I know by my own experience, that
Nature is imperative in her demands in such
sad moments, and she has a just right to her
dues, and when these are paid, revelation steps
in, and pointing up to the glorious mansions to
which he has attained, gently but forcibly bids
the eye to cease its weeping, the heart to quiet
its agonized throbbing; to dwell upon the love
that has released a suffering being, to place it
in joy and peace ineffable! it unfolds the vision
of our mind, and we see our beloved released,
from a suffering body, and emerging into a
higher life; renewed, invigorated with every
faculty expanded and increased in a ratio,
that our finite understandings cannot compute.
He is reunited with all the loved ones gone
before him. Above all, your mother! your
beloved, and most venerated mother—one you
all so richly appreciated, imagine their reun-
ion, both glorified and immortal beings, and
finding himself in a place where God is most
especially present. Though it may be, not yet
admitted into the immediate presence of the
great "I AM" but he, and all that blessed
throng have received a fulness, according to
their capability of receiving and enjoying, and
are in a state of eternal progression, happiness
and love. Longfellow beautifully says—and
he often puts a volume in a sentance.

"There is no death! what seems so is transition,
	"This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
	"Whose portal we call death!"

	His poems all breathe of an inspired spirit

[Column 2]
teeming with intuition! and ever practical and
healthy; but it takes a poet to discern all the
blessed influences they contain. They are in
truth,

"Songs that have power to quiet
	The restless pile of care,
And come like a benediction
	That follows after prayer;"

Shall I say more? Words sound vain in scenes
of deep affliction, silence then seems eloquent.
We conquer best when we fight the battle of
life alone. We like David, when going to
fight Goliah have our own armor, another's does
not fit us.
	Our heart says in deep sorrow to the
choice and valued friend, don't speak, but
grasp my hand, with the grip of love and truth,
and strength will be infused by the sacred
touch of heaven-born friendship. Would I
were near to comfort you, but by the penning
of this letter you will see that my spirit was
with you in your grief; and who shall dare to
deny that by some propelling power—the dem-
onstration of which at this time we are very
ignorant of, and at best "see through a glass
darkly," who shall say that the spiritual breath-
ings of a sympathetic spirit, is not conveyed
instantly to its kindred, and congenial co-
spirit? and throws over it a soothing, com-
forting, enlightening influence in the hour of
trial, and gloom. When we have before our
eyes, what the mind of man, by the inspiration
of the Almighty has accomplished in this our
day, when by aid of steam, and wire, and
electricity, knowledge, has almost become
omniscient, and we can make known our wants
and wishes, thousands of miles distant, not only
on the surface of the land, but side by side
with the gulph stream of the mighty oceans;
the wire conveys the wishes, and demands the
sympathizing sentence, the telling of which
carries balm to many a broken heart, or car-
ries the secret affairs of nations to its expecting
ally. Can we then have the least possible
doubt that the Telegraphs of the eternal worlds
are not millions of times more efficient than
our terrestrial apparatus? Though beautiful,
and admirable they are but as the toys of
children to the accomplished mechanic! me-
thinks that the glorious operatives of the
empyreum smile with delighted aproval, when
they behold the attempts of the children of
earth, to make this terrestrial globe a worthy
footstool for the Creator and fashioner of the
same. By the whisperings of the spirit of
truth, much is made known to the listening
car of the truth seeker.
	My friend, in this your hour of darkness
and trial, may the light and truth of heaven
dawn upon your mind. I shall not apologize
for leading you a few steps into the paths of
science, by which the Christian can draw
analogy that opens the illumined volume of
eternity, and enables him, or her, to rise above
all terrestrial things, which are merely "suburbs
of the life elysian."
	I here lay aside the letter and would as a
postscript, now we are on the subject of death,
remark upon the many great ones of the world
and also some of our own venerated ones
among whom death has, within a few short
years made such havoc; the last two or three
years have been notable for the death of not-
able ones; and in the last few months Carlyle
Emerson, Longfellow and George Eliot, have
as if by consent passed away. I must make a
few of my sentiments palpable regarding these
"honored dead," but now I feel my Editor will
say Quantum Sufficit.
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1882.


Justice is on the side of woman suffrage.—
William H. Seward.


