HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE were gratified to see as a motto for the
"Utah Journal," a new publication just issued
in Logan, these words, "The highest possible
liberty to man and woman." This promises
well, and we have no doubt the paper will be an
efficient help in all the various directions for the
benefit and elevation of all who peruse its
pages.
	The programme was exceedingly well ren-
dered, and the best of order was kept although
the meeting was long and the day was unusually
warm. It is gratifying to see the great improve-
ment that is being made through these Associa-
tions. Our visit to Pleasant Grove will be en-
graved upon the mind, in consequence of the
representation made by the children.
	ON July 18, ult. Sister E. R. S. Snow and E.
C. Clawson attended the annual meeting or
Conference of the Primary Associations of West
Jordan. The Association is under the presidency
of Mrs. Eliza Bird. There were about two hun-
dred children present, and the exercises were
very well rendered, reflecting great credit upon
all those who have the care of these little ones
as well as the children themselves. Following
is the programme: Select reading by Daniel
Wright; recitation, Emma J. Merrit; Song,
Annie and Mary Naylor; Essay, Solon Richard-
son; Articles of Faith in concert, 'Sarah A. And-
erson, Sarah J. Anderson, Rosetta Bennet,
Emily Egbert and Carrie Gardner; dailogue'
Isacc Wardle and Neil Anderson; Essay, Re-
becca Goff; Questions and Answers on the Res-
toration of the Gospel by, Archibald Haun, Jos
eph Goff, Albert Smith, James, Mary and
Francis Goff; Dialogue, Naomi Goff and Rhoda
A. Turner; recitation, David Haun.

	ON Monday July 31, a special meeting of
the Primary Association was held in the 21st
Ward meeting house, Mrs Mary Davis presiding.
Bishop Burt and other brethren of the Ward
were present. A number of lady visitors were
present by invitation, and addressed the child-
ren, after they had finished their exercises.
The children kept very good order. The singing
and reciting was all well done, and spoke well
for those engaged in the entertainment. Inter-
esting remarks were made by Mrs. Zina D. H-
Young, Ellen C. Clawson, Emmeline B. Wells,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Romania B. Pratt, and
Louie Felt.

	UNION Ward Relief Society held its annual
meeting on Thursday August 8, in the Ward
house, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards presiding,
Bishop Phillips and Counselor Terry, also
other brethren were present. Visitors from
Salt Lake Sisters M. I. Horne, H. M. Whitney

[Column 2]
and E. B. Wells. The annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing what had been done
during the past year, which was very creditable
indeed. The business seems to be conducted in
the most economical and and thorough manner.
After the sisters had finished speaking, Bishop
Phillips made a few remarks, upon several sub-
jects of interest, also alluded to Job and his suf-
ferings, and compared his condition to that of any
who think themselves sorely aggrieved and af-
flicted nowadays. All seemed to feel well and
enjoy a good spirit.

	THE first regular monthly meeting of the
board of directors of the Deseret Hospital, was
held in the reception room of the building on
Monday, August 7, at eleven a. m. Considerable
business was transacted, and arrangements
made for systematic work. Already eleven cases
have been registered there besides some out
door patients. The preliminary work of inaug-
urating this institution has been more arduous
than the general public are likely to have im-
agined. The earnestness and determination of
the ladies is most admirable. Great credit is
due to the several committees, who have so ably
performed their portion of work, especially the
canvassing committee, whose duties are of a
very delicate nature. There is still a great deal
to be accomplished, and more remains,for it is a
stupendous undertaking for women without
means of their own, and depending upon the
liberality of the people, and the several organiza-
tions. It is hoped that all Latter-day Saints will
feel to sustain the movement, it is certainly a
laudable enterprise, and one that will require
patience, diligence, an abundance of faith and a
large amount of money to make it permanently
successful.

	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society of
Pleasant Grove, was held on the 3rd of August,
in the meeting house of that place. There were
present by invitation, Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, and E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City. Sisters M. T. Smoot and M. Johns
from Provo, Ann D. Bringhurst from Springville,
Rebecca Standring and Sister Coleman from
Lehi, Mary Hindley, Ellen D. Clark and Sister
Greenwood from American Fork; besides some
others from the adjacent towns. The Primary
Association with their President and Counselors
were at the depot when the sisters arrived, and
greeted them with some of their "beautiful
songs," rendered in the very best manner, their
fresh young voices ringing out in the open air
sweet, rich, clear and full of melody. Just be-
yond were some of the Juvenile martial band,
in their stylish uniform, with their instruments
playing their very best music to welcome the
sisters. The meeting at ten a. m. was conducted
by Mrs. E. Brown, President R. S. of that place.
The sisters who spoke presented in a forcible
and earnest manner the subject of the Deseret
Hospital; they also touched briefly but explicitly
upon many other subjects and alluded to the
signs of the times.
	In the afternoon the Primary convened num-
bering about 150 children. Mrs. Harriet C.
West presiding, assisted by her Counselors.


