A ﻿REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
Mrs. Horne has ever been an active worker
in beneyolent directions for the public good.
She was a member of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, and there gained some knowledge,
through the teachings of the prophet Joseph,
concerning the mission of woman in this dispen-
sation,therefore when President Brigham Young
effected a reorganization of the Relief Society-
in the several wards of Salt Lake City she was
well prepared to take hold of the work under-
standing. In the first organization of the
fourteenth ward in this city, in the Spring of
1857, Mrs. Horne was set apart as a Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Phoebe Woodruff.  In this capacity she lab-
ored diligently and faithfully until the time of
the move South, when the Society was no lon-
ger able to operate as an organized body.  On
the 15th of October 1857, another babe, a
little girl, was added to the happy household,
making the eighth daughter.  Of these boys
and girls now grown to manhood and woman-
hood we shall have more to say towards the
close of this brief history.
 In April, 1858, President Young notified
Mrs. Horne to prepare to go South as far as
Parowan—Mr. Horne had been previously
called to go in to Southern Utah to assist in
developing the cotton interests in Dixie.  This
was at the time of the vacating of the city
when Johnston’s army had been sent to sub-
due the “Mormons.”’ Think of the many
families who left the homes they had labored
so hard to make in this new and desolate land;
and how many women with little ones around
them were obliged to go out from homes, taking
only the bare necessaries of household comforts,
and take once more to the tents and wagons
for shelter!  Mrs. Horne had a family of ten
children and only two boys old enough to ren-
der much assistance.  The children were not
very well supplied with clothing for a journey
of that kind, and one of the twin daughters
was just recovering from a severe atack of in-
flamation of the lungs; but nothing daunted
Mrs. Horne was mistress of the situation, and
set to work in earnest, making the necessary
preparations for the journey.  This sacrifice of
home under such peculiarly trying circum-
stances was one of the severest trials (Mrs.
Horne says) of her life. 
	The distance was two hundred and fifty miles,
and everything was in readiness  start by
the first of May.  She bade adieu to her pleas-
ant home with a cheerful heart, relying upon
God for protection for herself and children,
knowing not whether she should ever see her
home again.  This heroic mother took her
babe six months old in her arms and drove in
a light wagon the entire distance.  She had
her four youngest children in the same con-
veyance, the eldest of them but four years old.
What will surprise our readers, especially those
outside of the “Mormon” Church, was that
she took her husband’s other family in the
same wagon with herself.  One can form some
idea of the elevation of character necessary to
rise above every feeling of selfishness under
such circumstances as these were.  It took
some time to reach Parowan in this way, stop-
ping to rest the teams and make calculations
to camp where there was feed for the horses
and cattle, and the family reached their destin-
ation about the first of June, among strangers
and homeless; but Mrs. Horne soon made friends,
Br. Edward Dalton and family were most kind
in allowing her the freedom of their house to
cook and eat; which was a great accomodation
in a time like that, and soon after her husband
came up from the Dixie country to visit them
and built two small board rooms for them.
Meantime Mrs. Horne earned enough by tak-
ing in sewing to make her little flock of child-
ren comfortable.  It may he wondered how in a
time of such scarcity, she could supply cloth-
ing for her family by taking in sewing.  Some
Saints had just arrived in Parowan from San
Bernardino, loaded with goods, and in need of
help to make up clothing, and Mrs Horne glad-
ly availed herself of this opportunity.  Her
eldest son, the only one old enough to
render much assistance, returned to Salt Lake
and was detained to assist in putting in late
crops, so she was obliged to do without his help.
In September, word reached the Saints who
had gone South that difficulties had been so
far adjusted that all who wished might return
home.  She received the news gladly, and
sold what she could of the household fur-
niture she had gathered around her, and en-
gaged a man to help load up, and to drive one
of her teams.  Mrs. Horne arranged every-
thing in the best possible manner, bade good-
bye to her kind friends in Parowan and joy-
fully started for home about the middle of Sep-
tember.  She drove one of the teams with her
babe in her arms, as she had on the former
journey, the man drove the other and the
children took turns in driving the cows. Mrs.
home is be thoroughly efficient a business
woman, that she knows when others fulfill their
responsibilities as they ought, and she soon
ascertained that the man’s services she had en-
gaged were of little value—in fact she felt
she would have been better off without him.
The journey home was tedious and hard and
when she arrived in Payson the man she had
employed decided to remain there, so her
own little boys drove the team and the girls
drove the cows.  They got along very well
until they reached American Fork, when the
wind started blowing furiously and beat direct-
ly in their faces, during the forepart of the
day, making it almost impossible to travel.  In
the afternoon the wind went down and rain
fell heavily.  Night overtook them at Little
Cotton Wood, and it was impossible to proceed
any further in the storm so this courageous
mother with only her little children and teams
encamped for the night by the side of the
road.  They could not light a fire it was so
wet and the little folks were hungry, sleepy
and uncomfortable.  Mrs. home says: “I hope
I shall never have to pass another such a night.
Our wagons leaked and the rain wet every-
thing in them.  I guarded my children the
best I could during the night, and emptied
dish after dish of rain water which I caught.
But as every difficulty has an end so had this
one.” At daylight they started on their
journey and arrived in Salt Lake City in time
to partake of breakfast in their old home; re-
turning heartfelt thanks to the Father for his
protecting care upon the journey and their
safe return.  Mrs. Horne took such a severe
cold in the storm that she suffered from neu-
ralgia in the face for the next three months.
She had a hard struggle to get along with her
family and all the domestic work after her
return, as she was constantly in pain and with-
out any help, but she managed to live and
take care of her little ones; though the burden
must have been a very heavy one.  She had
however the assistance of her son Henry whom
she found in Salt Lake on duty when she re-
turned home.  Late in the fall of that year
Mr. Horne returned from his Southern mission.
Perhaps some idea may be gathered from the
foregoing, of the fortitude and faith of “Mor-
mon” women under trying circumstances—
and while their husbands and often their sons
are engaged in public duties in the Kingdom,
in various fields of labor or upon missions
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth.  Who can read the foregoing and
not feel that Mrs. Horne’s mission, though of
a home nature, was not as important a one in
every sense of the, word, requiring not only
great moral courage and business tact, but
great faith and trust in Him, who rides upon 
the storm and tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb.
To be Continued.


