OBITUARY.

DIED, July 24th 1882, in Salt Lake City, of
ovarian tumor,, Jane Todd, of West Weber
Weber Co. Sister Todd was born in South
Church, Durham, England, emigrated to Utah
Oct. 23rd 1881.  She was well known to the
Elders who were on missions in the work of
England, and always made them welcome to
her table and her home.  As a Latter-day Saint
she endeavored to live in obedience to all the
principles revealed for the guidance of the Saints.
Her health had long been delicate, and when
the nature of her disease was known, and an
operation was made for her relief determined on,
she expressed her entire submission to the will
of the Lord, whatever the result might be. On
July 20th 1882, at her own request the operation
was performed by Dr. S.B. Young, assisted by
Drs. Anderson and Ferguson, in presence of Dr.
J. M. Benedict and other physicians. She bore
the operation well, but forty-eight hours after
septicaemic symptoms manifested themselves,
and in spite of the assiduous care and skill of
her medical attendants, she died July 24th.
The next day her remains were deposited in Salt
Lake Cemetery, to await the morning of the
first resurrection. An aged mother and two
daughters mourn her departure, as well as many
friends by whom she was highly respected.
							COM.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	  	   		REPORTS
			MILL CREEK WARD
	A report of the reorganization and proceed-
ings of the Relief Society of Mill Creek. Our
Association was reorganized August 14th 1877,
under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller
and his Counselors. With the following named
officers: Mrs. Rhoda A. Miller, President
[Column 2]
Elisabeth Hill and Ann Lemon, Counselors;
Sarah A. Snedaker, Secretary; Miss Nellie
Spencer Asst. Secretary; Mrs. Araminta North,
Treasurer; Melinda H. Butterworth Asst.
Treasurer.
	Some time ago Sarah A. Snedaker, resigned
her office on account of leaving the Ward,
Nellie Spencer was chosen Secretary.  Since
that time we have received donations in cash
to the amount of $415.05; property, $128.45;
labor, $16.15.  Disbursements, to P.A. Fund,
cash $26.00; Salt Lake Temple, $21.50; Logan
Temple, $100.00; poor in cash, $160.00; and
in property $85.11; remaining in Treasury
$107.55; property, $43.34. We have stored
for Zion, wheat to the amount of 497, bu.
18 lbs.
	I am happy to report our Society to be in a
thriving condition. All seem to take a lively
interest.  Our President has not been able to at-
tend much during the last few years on account
of poor health, though afflicted and suffering
much of the time, she lies on her bed preaching
the Gospel and her good influence is felt in the
meetings, and her great and one object is the
Church and kingdom of God. We feel to be
co-workers with you in doing all we can in
regard to sustaining and upholding those that
are placed over us; for we realize that the
time is coming when we will have to see after
the things of God and not after the folly and
fashions of the world; sustain our own people
in preference to the outside element. We
must become united for where there is unity
there is strength and if every there was a time
that strength was needed it is now, to withhold
the opposing power that has been allowed to
rise up among us.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel.
			RHODA A. MILLER, PRES.
