LADY STUDENTS AT CAMBRIDGE.

	It may be of interest to our readers to know
something of the life that is led by the students
at Girton. The plan is to have all the meals
in the dining hall; breakfast is supplied from
8 to 9, lunch from 12 to 3, and dinner, which
is, of course, a general meal, at 6. Tea is sent
to the students' own rooms; about 4 o'clock the
cheerful rattling of tea-cups is heard in the
corridors, and announces the arrival of the
servant with a large trayful of cups. These
trays are taken round to all the students' rooms
and also to the lecture-rooms, where the com-
bination of tea and study forms a peculiar
feature of the Girton lectures. Four o'clock
is an important hour at Girton, and one that
is not willingly missed by students. Those who
are absent from their rooms for a short time
generally leave a notice on their doors asking
for a cup of tea; and another notice that may
frequently be observed when walking along
the corridors is, "Please see to my fire." "En
gaged" is also put up by busy students who
are anxious not to be disturbed. The morning
hours are, of course, the best working hours;
from 9 to 1 is the usual working time; 1 being
the favorite hour for lunch. Nearly all the
lectures at Girton are given in the afternoon,
and the hours between 2 and 6 are generally
divided between lectures and tennis or walks.
But most students have some completely free
afternoons, which thay can devote to expedi-
tions into Cambridge or long country walks.
Lectures in Cambridge are given in the morn-
ing, and to these the natural science and his-
tory students go. Most mathematical and
classical lectures are given at Girton. None
o'clock in the evening is the time which public
opinion fixes as the right moment to leave off
work. Of course this is not always possible,
but as a rule it is the sociable hour and the
time for tea parties. Trays with materials
for tea, coffee or cocoa are sent round to the
rooms, and as every one has a kettle of her
own, tea can be taken at any time, and this is
generally a social meal, which two or three
friends, partake of together, enjoying the
luxury of leisure after work. Once a week a
practice is held by members of the choral so-
ciety, who usually give a concert at the end of
the term, to whlch friends are invited. There
is also a debating society, and an institution
peculiar to Girton, a ladies' fire brigade,
"womanned" by the students, in Cambridge
parlance. This was first thought of when
some small fire engines were presented to the
college; and some of the students, after receiv-
ing due and formal instruction, taught the
many details of pumping, passing buckets,
carrying in mysterious knots, etc., to the rest.
The institution continues to flourish and to
hold weekly practices.—London Society.


[Column 1]
	"To discriminate against woman is a denial
of right."—Governor John D. Long, of
Massachusetts.

[Column 2]
Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a. m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
