LETTER ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

Miss Esther M. Parker, Greenville, Penn.
	Dear Cousin: Although I so recently
answered your last letter, I trust you will
grant me pardon for thus unceremoniously ad-
dressing you again, but as I only merely
touched upon the course our enemies are pur-
suing against us as a people, I wish to give
you a few of my views on the subject, not as a
retort to the many vile and libelous slanders so
widely circulated about us, but to tell you
truths as I know them. When I see men,
who are, or should be, placed by the voice of
the people at the head of the government, so
far lose sight of their duties as guardians of
the constitutional laws of this great Republic,
as to enact special legislation to deprive a por-
tion of her children (no matter how few) of
the inalienable right to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences
and then seek to rob them of the greatest
boon given to man to protect him in his liberty
as a responsible being, the right of franchise,
I cannot hold my peace. This right was be-
queathed to us by our forefathers who suffered
untold privation, fought, bled and many of
them died for their country's cause, while our
foremothers labored in poverty and distress at
home, bearing the deep mental anguish of
heart that none but true, patriotic wives and
mothers could bear, it kindles the fire of old '76
in my blood, which I am ever proud and happy
to say runs through my veins as uncontamin-
ated, as when in the veins of my veteran father,
who bore arms in the war of 1812. He ever
taught his children that the spirit of our
glorious constitution was heaven-born; and that
God inspired Columbus to the discovery of
this continent, and had reserved this land for
the express purpose that our Pilgrim fathers
and mothers might find an asylum from perse-
cution; but what a fearful digression from the
standard of justice and right that a Washing-
ton and his compeers so devotedly erected,
when clergymen, politicians, and the press all
claim, that they now are taking action against
us because we believe and practice polygamy.
	Now my dear cousin this is not true, al-
though they fain would make it appear so to
the nations abroad, and thus deceive many
otherwise well-meaning people of our own
nation, for well do I remember the time in
the year 1833 when my father and
brothers were hunted day and night by our
enemies, and only saved their lives by conceal-
ment, while my mother with a large family of
little children in connection with many others

[Column 2]
in like condition, was driven into the wilds of
the frontiers by a mob whose faces were paint-
ed as black as Ethiopians—and this at the
point of the bayonet, from Jackson Co., Miss-
ouri, barefooted through the crusted snow cut-
ting our feet until our path was a trail of blood
and however much we may deplore the fact
this mob was led and urged on by a divine,who
a few Sabbaths before had professed to be a
follower of the meek and lowly Jesus. Was
this because of our belief in polygamy? No,
truly no: for the principle of plural marriage
was not then known or even heard of in our
Church. Why then did they become so in-
furiated against us? I know no other reason
than that the angel, which John the revelator,
saw flying in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell
on the earth, had come and fulfilled that mis-
sion by appearing to Joseph Smith, the great
modern prophet, and giving him authority to
preach the Gospel as did Jesus and his Apostles
when on the earth; and it come so opposite to
their preconcerted creeds, that they sought to
destroy it, by persecuting the Church of God.
And that same spirit that caused them to do
so then, is now most assuredly urging them on
to deeds of great wrongs.
	As you are aware by my former letter to
you that I am a firm believer in and do sustain
the principle of plural marriage—the celestial
law or higher order of marriage, which not
only unites husbands and wives for time but
for all eternity, which last clause is the crown-
ing point for all. I will explain more fully, if
possible, my reason for so doing, and being a
firm believer in the Bible, I will take that as
my guide. I find by searching its pages where
God said to Abraham the father of the faith-
ful, (in whose bosom all good Christians are
praying to repose) "I will bless them that bless
thee and curse them that curse thee, and in
thee shall all families of the earth be blessed;"
Now this we understand is the promise pertain-
ing to Christ the Redeemer, who should come
and be crucified to atone for the sins of the
world, that as many as would hearken to his
word, might be brought back into the presence
of God; also in Galatians, "Now to Abraham
and to his seed were the promises made," and
He saith not unto seeds as of many, but as of
one, and of thy seed which is Jesus Christ,
and all who read the Bible know that Abraham
had more than one wife. Again I find the
same promise made of Christ that he should
come through the seed of Jacob; a man hav-
ing four wives, and of these plural wives came
the twelve patriarchs, whose names John the
revelator tells us are to be written on the
twelve gates of the holy city, even the new
Jerusalem. In Kings I read that David was
a man after God's own heart, and through his
loins a chosen seed should be raised up even
Jesus Christ the Redeemer. The Apostle Paul
in his day tells the people how the Lord said,
I have found the son of Jesse a man after
mine own heart which shall fulfill all my will,
of this man's seed hath God, according to
promise, raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus.
Isaiah confirms the same by telling us, in
that day there shall be a root of Jesse which
shall stand as an ensign for the people, to it
shall the Gentiles seek and his rest shall be
glorious. Now I learn from the Bible that
Jesse, the father of David, was the son of Ruth
the plural wife of Boaz and that David his
son had many wives, yet in nothing did he dis-


[Column 1]
please the Lord only in the case of Uriah and
his wife. In Revelations it says one of the
Elders said unto me "weep not behold the lion
of the tribe of Judah hath prevailed to open
the book and loose the seven seals thereof. I
am Alpha and Omega the beginning and the
end; the first and the last. Again he says "I
am the root and the offspring of David the
bright and morning star, which makes it very
plain to my understanding that God had great
respect for those who believed and practised
plural marriage, and indeed preferred that
lineage for his holy son Jesus to come through,
and as he is the root of David, who was a man
after God's own heart, it becomes a most pos-
itive proof to me that Jesus Christ, is the
chief-corner stone and author of this principle;
therefore understanding and believing the
Bible as I do, reason and my own conscience
forces me not only to adopt the principle of
plural marriage in my faith, but I must prac-
tise the same. I also read in John, Chapter 8,
where our blessed Savior says, "if ye were
Abraham's children you would do the works
of Abraham." In Luke he says, there shall
be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you
shall see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all
the prophets in the kingdom of God, and ye
yourselves cast out. But this is not all, as I
have previously told you by letter. God has
commanded us through Joseph Smith, our
martyred prophet, that we must obey this law,
as did his ancient servants and handmaidens
that we may become one with him, or where
He dwells we cannot come. For us as a people
to ignore or set aside this principle would be
to incur the displeasure of an offended God.
I know those who are calling for special legis-
lation against us, say plural marriage is de-
generating and debasing, but I refer you to
where Jesus said to his disciples, "verily I say
unto you that ye which have followed me in
the regeneration, when the Son of man shall
sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit
upon the twelve thrones judging the twelve
tribes of Israel: Now let me ask what is this
regeneration he speaks of? Is it the mode of
doing away with the patriarchial order of
marrying more wives than one? No, that
cannot be for Jesus says himself, that a house
divided against itself cannot stand. And he
would thereby destroy himself for He was
born of that peculiar lineage; and all mankind
would thus be left without a Redeemer, and
therefore lose their salvation, then of necessity
in order to follow him in the regeneration and
become one with him we must be adopted into
the same lineage, and to the works of Abraham
and those to whom the promise of Christ was
given.
	The anti-polygamists say there are no true
homes where polygamy is practised. What a
strange contradiction in sinful man, praying
Congress to enact laws to tear our family ties
asunder, thereby casting hundreds of faithful,
virtuous wives and their children on a cold un-
feeling world, branding them with disgrace
and illegitimate birth, and at the same time
praying God that when they die he will take
them to Abraham's bosom,—Abraham who
was in every sense of the word a practical
polygamist. "O, consistency thou art a jewel"
It is also asserted by our enemies in Utah that
we are an oppressed people, by priestly domin-
ance and power; and that the women of Utah
are ignorant and down trodden, living in a
state of slavery and serfdom to their husbands
and the priesthood. This, dear cousin, is,
believe me, all false, and those who declare it
know in their hearts it is not true. There may
be homes that are not happy ones, and some
women who are tyrannized over by their hus-
bands. Let me ask you are there not similar
instances in other denominations, both in our
own country and abroad? If not we most
heartily congratulate them. But if there is

[Column 2]
such a condition of affairs near their own fire-
sides we would advise them to give heed to the
words of Jesus; "Pluck the beam out of thine
own eye that thou mayest see clearly to take
the mote out of thy brother's eye (or sister's as
the case may be.) It is also claimed by our
oppressors that the right of franchise for the
women of Utah is monopolized for partisan
purposes. This is also untrue. I have cast
my vote at every election in the proper place
and at the proper time ever since the privilege
was granted in 1870, and I can truthfully de-
clare I have never been instructed in regard to
my choice of candidate, neither have others of
our Church. I have read histories of the
nations from the first period of man's existance
on the earth, to the present time and I fail to
find anywhere on the pages of history, in any
age of the world where women have stood on a
higher plane or broader basis of liberty and
virtue than do the women of Utah, religiously,
socially and politically.
	With the deepest regard for the rights of
humanity, I subscribe myself as ever,
			Your sincere friend,
					NANCY ARETE CLARK.
Farmington, Utah
	Feb, 19, 1882.


