PRIMARY FAIR.

Notes taken of the Primary Fair, held in
the 1st. Ward July 20, 1882.
According to arrangements the children of
the Primary Association with a few invited
guests, met at the school house on Thursday
July 20th, at 10 o’clock; after singing by the
children, Elder A. M. Musser opened the
fair with prayer,singing again by the children,
when Brother Musser made a few remarks;
after which he declared the fair opened.
The fair consisted of over one hundred art-
icles, all made by the members of the Associa-
tion; most of them are very young and deserve
great credit for the interest taken ns well as
the varieties of work.
The little boys, I think, deserve special
mention, their miniature wheel-barrows and
garden tools, and other articles, all showing
industry worthy of so good a cause. The girls
did their part in flowers, and different kinds of
fancy work, not forgetting the more substantial
hand sewing and cookery. The fair remained
open until Friday noon, when a sumptuous re-
past having been prepared, the members of the.
Primary Association, under the supervision of
Sister Mary W. Musser, with a few invited
guests, sat down to the feast. The children
present numbered about 60, all healthy and
happy.
After dinner was over, the people began to
gather together for meeting, which opened at
2 o’clock. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, we had a short programme by the
children consisting of songs, dialogues, and
recitations. Sister Ellen Clawson addressed
the audience, expressed herself as being well
pleased with every thing, encouraging the
President in her endeavors to interest the child-
ren, as well as the great pains and trouble she
had taken in decorating and making things so
attractive; exhorted the mothers to come to
meeting. and take more interest in having the
children attend, that they may continue in the
good path and increase in good works, made
other excellent remarks. Sister B. W. Smith
spoke of the improvement made by the child-
ren.
In the meantime a little surprise had been
arranged in the shape of a beautiful ring. for
our worthy President, Sister Alice M. B.
Fletcher. Sister Annie Musser came to the
stand and made an approprate little speech in
behalf of the mothers of the children. The
ring was then given to her by a little girl, very
much to the surprise of the lady who stepped
forward and expressed her gratitude, with the
kind appreciation of those interested, and for
the little token of remembrance which showed 
she had not labored in vain. Her feelings
would not allow her to say much.
After some further arrangements the ex-
ercises were adjourned till evening and meet-
ing was dismissed.
At the appointed time for the party, the
house was filled with the happiest band of
children it has been our lot to witness, some of
their parents were present also, most of the
time was spent in dancing. But the main fea-
ture of the evening was a grand march by the
children around a car in the center of the
room, decorated with the stars and stripes, and
the following mottoes, ‘Liberty, E Pluribua
Unum, and In God we trust,” in gilt letters.
The car contained five little children represent-
ing a miniature goddess of liberty, maids of
honor, and pages, each holding the flag of our
country in their hands. The children were
all dressed in uniform, the girls with blue
sashes, and the boys with red, the latter also
wore paper caps trimmed with gilt and bright
colors, making quite an imposing appearence.
Dancing was kept up until 11 o’clock, the
children expressed themselves as never having
so good a time before, which no one doubted,
that was present. Thus ended the happy two
days.	A. M. B. FLETCHER, Pres.
		M. W. MUSSER, Coun.
