BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is a short sketch of the rise of
the young gentlemen and ladies Relief Society
in Nauvoo which was printed in the Times and
Seasons in the year 1843, and the reading of it
will doubtless bring to many a friend of yore
pleasing reminiscences of the days when we
were young.
	"One evening in the latter part of January
last, a few young people having assembled at
the house of Elder H. C. Kimball; the follies
of youth and the temptations to which they
are exposed generally, but more especially in
our city, became the topic of conversation.
The company were lamenting the loose style
of the morals, the frivolous manner in which
they spent their time, and their too frequent
attendance at balls, parties, etc., when Elder
Kimball proposed that an appointment should
be given out expressly for the young ladies
and gentlemen, and he would give them such
instruction and advice as the spirit of the Lord
might suggest to him; which, if followed,
would doubtless lead to a reformation in the
conduct of his young friends. This proposition
was received with delight, and acted upon with
alacrity.
	"An appointment having been given out, a
number of the young people assembled at the
house of Elder Billings, when Elder Kimball
addressed them for some time upon the duties
of children to their parents, to society and to
their God; exhorting them to lay aside their
vanity, lightmindedness, pride and frivolity;
and endeavor to show themselves worthy of
the religion which they had embraced; advis-
ing them to shun evil company, (for by an in-
dividual's company is his character estimated,)
and to be obedient to their parents, for this
was the first commandment with promise.
	"This address was so well received by the
assembled congregation that it was voted, al-
most by acclamation, that a similar meeting
should be held on the ensuing week. An ap-
pointment was accordingly circulated for the
next Wednesday evening at Brother Lorin


Farr’s schoolhouse, as Elder Billings house
was too small to contain the assemblage.
"On the appointed evening, the room was
filled to overflowing. Elder Kimball addressed
the crowded, but silent and attentive con-
gregation, for the space of an hour; in that
plain, simple an affectionate manner which
goes directly to the heart, and which is so
natural to the speaker. He first explained the
duty which  youth owed to themselves, and
the manner in which they might obtain honor
and respect, viz; by applying their minds with
determined perseverence to all the studies com-
monly deemed necessary to fit them for active
life and polish them for society, and not only
to these but also to the study of Scripture,
the book of Mormon, the book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and the most theological work
of their most talented elders. By pursuing
this course, said he, "you will be enabled to
give a reason for the hope and the joy which
exists within you, you will always be prepared
to explain the doctrine in which you believe,
you will ever be ready to prove and defend
your religion, you will be well received in
company and will be esteemed by all wise and
good men. We who have borne the heat and
burden of the day will soon go the way of all
the earth and give place to you my young
brethren. You will soon come upon the stage
of action, and be called upon to carry the
glad tidings of the new and everlasting coven-
ant to the remotest parts of the earth, and
proclaim the news of gospel grace to a lost and
ruined world. Strive, therefore, to show your-
selves worthy of your calling: be dutiful,be hum-
ble, be faithful, be obedient and acquit your-
selves like men, and men of God." He con-
cluded his interesting discourse with a general
exhortation to keep all of the commandments
of God, to associate with none but the wise
and virtuous, and lastly to keep themselves
pure and unspotted from the world. This dis-
course, like the preceeding one, was received
with delight by all the hearers.
"Brother Farr then made a few short but
pertinent remarks, when a vote was taken
whether the meetings should be continued,
which ffa carried unanimously in the affirm-
ative.
"This room being also too small, the next ap-
pointment was made for the meeting to be
held at the house of President Joseph Smith.
"Notwithstanding the inclemency of the
weather the house was completely filled at an
early hour, and numbers were obliged to de-
part for want of room. The assembly were,
as usual, addressed by Elder Kimball, who, in
a solemn and impressive manner, warned the
young people against the evils to which they
were exposed, and the temptations to which
they were peculiarly subject; not only from
their youth and inexperience, but also from
their sanguine and excitable temperament.
He exhorted them to be guided by the voice of
reason and judgment, and pay strict attention
to the advice and commands of their parents,
who being of maturer years and a longer ex-
perience, are much better calculated to guide
the pathway of youth, than they themselves.
He warned them against giving heed to their
passions, which, he said, would lead them into
many snares and difficulties. He advised
them never to be too forward in company, for
"a wise head keeps a silent tongue;" to be con-
descending to their inferiors, kind and concili-
ating to their equals, and deferential, not
slavish, to their superiors. He warned them
against frequenting balls and such places,
which, he said, would generally lead to many
evil practices, and draw away the mind from
more innocent amusements,and from their duty
to their parents. He said "he had not now,
nor ever had, any objections to having young
people meet together in social parties, or in-
dulging in any rational amusement; but, he
strongly opposed carrying it to extremes, as it
generally was." He concluded this address
by exhorting them to give heed to his advice,
for it was according to holy scriptures,and "to
live by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God." The house being still too
small, the next was appointed at the lodge-
room over President Smith's store. At the
appointed time this large room was filled to
overflowing, and the great numbers which
assembled testified to the increasing interest in
which these meeting were held by theyouth
of the city. Again Elder Kimball addressed
them and gave them such advice as would be
useful to them at the present time and also in
their future lives.
To be Continued.


