OUR HOSPITAL.
Yes, at last we are so blest as to have a Home for
our afflicted, and for the sick poor, wherein they
will be attended by kind, and efficient physicians,
and nurses who will carefully watch over, and
attend to their respective cases.  It has been in-
augurated cheifly by the sisters, they mooted
the sub ject a long  time and means, and much
consulation, with efficient minds to carry it
out and accomplish something satisfactory.- It


[Column 1]
is a greater work, than the general public have
any idea of, and nothing but brave hearts, clear
heads, and enduring perseverance could have
brought it, even into its present incipient state,
for, as yet, it is indeed only an embryo, but
there are visibly the germs of perfection in it,
and an energetic spirit, one of love and charity,
and heartfelt benevolence has attended its in-
augurators.  The dedication of the house and all
its departments, which took place July 17th,
1882, was, in every way, impressive and anim-
ating.  President Taylor, though suffering un-
der a heavy domestic bereavement, presided,
and spoke as he ever does, with wisdom and
kindness, giving to the institution, and to all
connected with it, his full approval, faith, and
cordial support.  President Joseph F. Smith fol-
lowed in the same kind spirit; and all the
speeches were to the point, and showed every
heart beat with one pulsation, regarding the
work on hand.
	The sisters nominated to officiate in the Hos-
pital were blest, and dedicated to their respective
offices; President Taylor through all assisting,
and officiating.  Mayor Jennings spoke kindly,
and wisely and endorsed his address with--as he
called it, "a small donation," which on opening
was found to be a cheque for five hundred dol-
lars. 
	The smile and approbation of our God is upon
that institution, and will be, we trust, upon all
who officiate in it.  In all earthly undertakings
men and women are, God's delegates, and dis-
pensers, and I feel in this affair, our people will
make this a noble demonstration.  Let us all,
as far as we are able, follow the example of
Mayor Jennings, even the "Widow's mite,"  will
be an addition to the PILE, and let such not
shrink from laying down the humble coin, feel-
ing ashamed that it is so small, beside the the noble
donations of the rich, let us remember the words
of our Savior and the plaudit He bestowed on
"the poor widow" when putting in her “mite”
which was a current coin of that day and age.
The Scotch have a proverb "Many a nickle
makes a mickly" and if the mighty masses that
compose the church of Jesus Christ of Latter
days, give but even a small donation, it will
make a noble pile.
	There is no doubt that it will be, that it must
be a grand success, for God's blessing must be on
an undertaking that is for comforting and for
the healing of the sick poor of his people; and
the prayers and blessings of the sick in that
house will be a mighty Holocaust not offered in
vain.
	My mind is drawn by the subject in a retro-
spective manner to the magnificient Hospital
of my native town--the old University town of
Cambfidge, England; it was a Hospital for a 
Prince.  It was originally founded and endowed
by a gentleman of the name of Addenbrooke; 
and it bears his name for[e]ver.
	Addenbrooke's Hospital, SUPPORTED by VOL-
LUNTARY CONTRIBUTION.  These words are in-
scribed in collosal letters on the upper part of the
building.  It has the appearance of a college, a
broad carriage road extends past the whole build-
ing and continues around a lovely lawn, to noble
iron gates opening on  the street; a clear
beautiful stream of water about six feet wide
and robably three deep, fed by the river Cam
ruus all round the grounds and from which the
house is supplied.  Commencement week which
is a grand time with the University, and of
couse a great influx of visitors, the Hospital is
thrown open for the inspection of the public,
and the promenade is one of the events of the
week.  The building is large and spacious, and
so perfectly clean and beautiful that until you
are shown into the wards, it seems like visiting
the mansion of a nobleman.  I have often heard
the patients speak of the kind and efficient treat-
ment they receive there, with love and gratitude.
All the regulations are stringent and methodi-
cal and are observed imperatively or there could
not be the exquisite order, every where visible.
When Prince Albert was made Chancellor of
the University and the Queen accompanied him
to Cambridge, they made a handsome present-
ation to the Hospital--as their first act.  All
notable visitors do the same.  I do not remem-
ber ever earing a call upon the public to increase
the funds.  Such noble institutions are an honor
to any country, and speak trumpet-tongued of
the spirit, and of the religion of the people
where they exist I feel proud that we, poor
people as we comparatively are, and young in
years as a church, that we too have a home for
our sick and afflicted; may our united prayers
daily ascend as a people for the support and
prosperity of the same, and may we ever bear
in mind that faith without works is dead; and
that the gold and the silver is blest only when it
is laid out directly or indirectly to benefit the
sick and the poor, and to do good in the kingdom
