PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	The history of President Woodruff has
been published very recently by the Deseret
News. and the work of preparing this book
for publication has been very creditably
done by Matthias F. Cowley—the title page
reads “Wilford Woodruff, Fourth President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, History of his Life and Labors as re-
corded in his daily Journal.
	Then appears the suitable quotation from
the New Testament:
	“To him that overcometh will I grant to
sit with me on my throne, even as I also
overcame and am set down with my Father
in his throne, Rev. 3:21,
	This appears a very appropriate verse for
such a man as President Woodruff. The
signature under his picture on the first page
of the volume, is significant of the character
of the man himself, straightforward, upright,
one could never believe him vacillating, or
in any way wavering from what he knew to
be right.
	The dedication reads:
	“To his numerous and ever increasing
family. And to all who love the name and
memory of President Wilford Woodruff,
this work is respectfully dedicated.”
	The book is handsomely bound and only
the name and Coat of Arms of the Wood-
ruff family appear upon the cover.
	There are 57 chapters in the book and 702
pages. The principal subjects are named
in the paragraphs of contents, so that it will
be easy to refer to certain remarkable
events in the life of this illustrious Elder,
Apostle, Historian, and President of the
Church. 
	The Latter-day Saints will welcome with
joy and laudable pride the publication of the
life and labors of this great and good man,
so dearly beloved by the people.
	Aside from that it will be very valuable to
all, on account of its containing so much
historic information of Church matters,
and of individuals from the days of Kirtland
to the time of his death.
	President Woodruff was born March 1st,
1807, in Farmington, Hartford Co., Conn.,
and was a bonafide Yankee, though of Eng-
lish extraction. President Woodruff says
that “according to the ancient Book of Her-
aldry, one of his ancestors was Lord Mayor
of London in 1579.”
	Brother Woodruff possessed many estim-
able qualities and characteristics, but one of
the crowning virtues was his sincere and
genuine humility, which was apparent in


all he did and said, a plain man, unosta-
tious, and yet the Lord exalted him to the
highest position in the Church, at a time in
its history when there was need of a man
who could be trusted to carry out the will
of the Lord, even if it were against his own
feelings and interests.
	The Lord made manifest His confidence
in this unassuming man and he delivered
the divine message to the people. He was
without guile—upright, honest and faithful
in all places and under all circumstances.
The book will be a veritable treasure-trove in
every household; it contains such practical
lessons as the children need, and moral and
religious examples all the Saints should fol-
low, It may be truthfully said of him, he
lived “the simple life.”


