PROGRESS.
When the foundations of the earth were laid,
	And darkness hover’d o’er the space,
This good “world beautiful” so perfect made,
	And sun and stars had found their place,
Then darkness fled before the coming day—
	When God proclaimed “Let there be light!”
For His Omnipotence, and pow’r held sway
	And he divided day and night.
Fair morning in her maiden beauty rose
	All blushes like a virgin bride;
The world awaken’d from the night’s repose
	By her sweet presence beautified.
’Twas then the morning stars together sung,
	And angels minister’d on earth;
All nature’s voices in glad chorus rung,
	Rejoicing in the world’s new birth—
For man was born’ and unto him was given
	Dominion over living things,
And woman, fresh from out the courts of heav’n
	A benediction with her brings—
The dawn of progress in a new-born race,
	The growth of beings multiplied;
And down the ages filling time and place,
	True knowledge life has glorified.

There have been wonders in the long ago,
	Empires have flourish’d in their way,
Their thrones and kingdoms, their great works
		laid low,
	Their progress crush’d and pass’d away.
We boast of great achievements in our time,
	Of ingenuity and wondrous skill
Talk of the sciences in flights sublime,
	Controling forces at their will.
Men have won laurels in the halls of fame,
	Have solv’d great problems, to be sure,
But can they justly lasting merit claim
	For progress made that will endure?
And who can say what progress most has done
	To help mankind to higher things?
What vict’ry have we gained, what triumph won,
	With all that art and science brings?
Wise men of old, e’en prophets in their time
	Have dealt with life’s great mysteries;
And poets sung in rhythmic strains sublime
	Through the long line of centuries.

In the Meridian of time the Savior came,
	“The Golden Rule” to man He taught;
And by His teaching, and thro’ Jesus name,
	The world received new light, new thought,
He who has given to the world His best,
	Who has some blessed message brought,
And ministers to human soul’s distress’d
	Has far the greater progress wrought
We hail the day, when knowledge shall increase,
	And cover earth from sea to sea;
When all mankind shall dwell in perfect peace,
	And light and truth obtaln the victory.
