WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine stake was held in the large
new meetinghouse Pleasant Grove on Friday,
April 30, 1909. President Rebecca Standring
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring greeted the sisters, spoke of
the late General Conference in Salt Lake
City and the remarks of President Joseph
F. Smith, the spirit of which was “Peace, be
still.” We have nothing to fear if we do
our duty. Which was also beautifully por-
trayed in our Stake Conference held a week
ago. Let us be faithful and do our duty and
all will be well with us. Let us not think
that when we pass from here that our work
will be done, for we shall find that we will
still be busy. This existence is only a school
of preparation. Let us show that our hearts
are in the work.
	Reading by Emma J. T: Roberts on
“Compensation, or the reward of action.”
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman,
thought there was a very good representa-
tion of the stake this morning. We know
what the sisters are doing, and the good
which they accomplish.
	Sister Standring has the faculty of having
the sisters work in union, and they take
pleasure in their labors, keeping busy and
honor their calling. We should be a light
to the world. People who have lived among
us say they never saw a more industrious
people. Our mission is to save all who will
be saved. You sisters are accomplishing
much good.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock felt grateful to
the Lord that she was able to be here and
partake of the spirit of this meeting. Could
see a great improvement in the people for
the sisters are doing a good work in the
wards. Was thankful for her standing in the
Church and desired to spend the remainder
of her days in usefulness among the people.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor Har-
riet Jacobs.
	Afternoon Session: Conference 2 p. m.
Counselor Annie C. Hindley in charge.
	After the devotional exercises.
	Duet, “Beyond the Shadows” by Sisters
Blanch Greenwood and Ellen Smith.
	Sister Sina Chipman gave a talk on the
importance of instilling faith into our chil-
dren. The greatest need is religious train-
ing in the home.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke gave a short sketch
of the life of Sister Emma S. Featherstone,
showing her devotion to the work of the
Lord, and her diligence in Relief Society
work.
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency. When we meet in such assemblies
as this, we enjoy the spirit and feeling of
each other and our Father in Heaven, and
can apply it to our lives. Spoke along the
line of prohibition and habits in the home
in regard to the word of wisdom. Alpine
stake stands almost at the head of the list
alphabetically. Let us strive to have it at
the top in living up to the word of God.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake Pre-
sidency said when you heard the truth in
your native land, you compared it with the
scripture and found it correct. It is just as
true today. We cannot shirk the responsi-
bility of it, and the Lord will prepare us for
it if we do our part and serve Him faithfully.
The Latter-day Saints should be the first to
abolish the evil of intemperance, and use
our influence in the suppression of the liquor

[Column 2]
traffic. Let us place the seal of dishonor on
it and not give license to such places. Spoke
of the erection of the Stake Tabernacle and
advised the sisters to prepare to leave a
legacy after they are gone beyond so that
children and others may see our good works.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman en-
dorsed the remarks of the brethren. Let
us be interested in building our Stake Taber-
nacle. It will be an honor to us in days to
come and we will be thankful that we have
helped to build and pay for it, if it is ever so
small. May God bless the efforts of the sis-
ters of Alpine stake.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt that we
had had a feast of fat things and prayed the
Lord’s choicest blessings upon us as mothers
and advised us to help in the building of the
Tabernacle Compared the gospel and the
life to come to traveling in an Ocean Steamer.
We can have first, second or third class pas-
sage, just as we wish, by the deeds of this
life. Thanked the sisters of Pleasant Grove
for the nice lunch they had served, and com-
mended the move for it makes the work of
the sisters less and they have more time to
attend meeting and devote to other duties.
	Meeting closed by singing. Prayer by Pre-
sident Rebecca Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


[Column 1]
HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
	Two very celebrated great men, H. B.
Blackwell and W. L. Garrison, have died
quite recently that will be greatly missed
by the suffrage women of the country, be-
cause of their advocacy of equal rights and
the strength of helpfulness to the cause of
humanity along many lines of uplifting.
They were contemporary with some of the
very greatest men that New England has
produced, and almost the last of those we
are wont to call “the old school.” They
were among the promoters of anti-slavery
and other notable reforms. Of this class
too were Whittier and Holmes, Wendell
Phillips, Theodore Parker, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson and George Wm. Curtis,
the Alcotts, Edward Everett Hale, and many
illustrous women of the same sterling inte-
grity, who were associated in the work, Lu-
cretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Frances E. Willard and Susan B. An-
thony; now only Julia Ward Howe and Car-
oline M. Severance remain of that bright
galaxy of men and women of that early pe-
riod—yet we must not pass over the two
sisters and the sister in law of Henry Browne
Blackwell each of them we might say equal-
ly celebrated, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell now
aged 87, Dr. Emily Blackwell, aged 83, and
Rev. Antoinette Browne Blackwell, names
familiar to all the progressive women of our
time, and well known in the annals of his-
tory of the forward movements of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	The tributes paid to the life and work of
these great men would fill volumes, yet they
suffered persecution because of espousing a

[Column 2]
then unpopular cause, that has since been
characterized as a righteous and noble
undertaking. So goes the world, John Green-
leaf Whittier wrote of the late Mr. Blackwell
the following verse which is truly expressive
of his loyalty to woman kind.

	“Never woman in her suffering saw
		A helper tender, true and brave as he,
	Lifting her burden of unrighteous law
		He shames the boast of ancient chivalry.”

	The beautiful tributes paid to Mr. Black-
well by his devoted and widely beloved
daughter Alice Stone Blackwell are most
tender and touching, expressing as they do
the purest sentiments of love and trust. At
the close of her In Memoriam she gives these
grand and telling words of Garibaldi to
Josephine E. Butler. “Remember that,
though we pass away, and the leaders of a
cause fall one by one, principles never die;
they are eternal, world-wide and unchange-
able.”
	Mr. Blackwell was at the Suffrage Con-
vention in Seattle in July of this year climb-
ing mountains and taking part in all the
strenuous work of the campaign for suffrage.
He was wonderfully vigorous to the very
last, only the Sunday before his illness he
walked three miles over rough hills and along
the cliffs on the south shore of Martha’s
Vineyard in the early morning, and while
he was ill in bed he referred to that trip to
the Vineyard and how he had enjoyed it.
Mr. Blackwell strongly disapproved of show
and expense at funerals and repeatedly im-
pressed upon his daughter (his only child)
“that when he passed away he wished to
have only a simple pine box.” Henry
Browne Blackwell was born May 4, 1825,
died Sept. 7, 1909. Doubtless most of our
readers know he was the husband of Lucy
Stone of wide-world fame. At the time of
the courtship of this illustrious couple Lucy
Stone “was the best known advocate of
woman’s rights in the country, and a set of
verses had not long before appeared in the
Boston papers describing the fervent grati-
tude that awaited the valiant man who
should marry her and by matrimony (it was
assumed) reduce her to silence.”

	A name like Curtiss shall be his,
		On Fame’s loud trumpet blown,
	Who with a wedding kiss shuts up
		The mouth of Lucy Stone.

	Perhaps this little verse may give some of
our young people an idea of how the early
advocates of woman’s rights were ridiculed
and not only that but persecuted.
	The writer recalls many pleasant inter-
views with this genial chivalrous gentleman,
he had known a number of our people in
the early days of the Church in Ohio and
had some business transactions with them
of which he spoke favorably, remembering
their business capacity of which he spoke in
terms of praise, mentioning particularly
Hyrum Kimball and Joseph L. Heywood.
Mr. Blackwell was a man of tremendous
power in speaking and in writing.
	(Unfinished article by the Editor)


