				MARCH.
	The Negotiable Instrument—Alice Mer-
rill Horne. (20 minutes.)
	The Spirit of Invention—Julia P. M.
Farnsworth. (20 minutes.)
	Group of Henry W. Longfellow’s Poems
—Rachel Campbell.
	The Aeroplane—Mary E. R. Webber. (20
minutes.)
				APRIL.
	Lincoln, the Ideal Type of American
manhood, and his Influence on the Policy
and Destiny of our Nation—Carol Y. Can-
non. (25 minutes.)
	The Evolution of Medicine and Surgery—
Elizabeth R. Wright. (25 minutes.)
Selections from William J. Byran—Diana
F. Rich.

				MAY.
	Equal Suffrage—Emmeline B. Wells. (20
minutes.)
	The Arctic Explorers—Clarissa Y. Spen-
cer. (20 minutes.)
	Policy of the Roosevelt Administration—
Emily C. Willey. (20 minutes.)
	Selections from Holmes, Whittier and Bry-
ant led by Sarah F. Smith.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. M
		UINTAH STAKE.
		Synopsis of Minutes. 
	The 49th conference of the Relief Society
of Uintah Stake was held in the Vernal
ward house Aug. 20, 1909, commencing at
10 a. m., President Nancy A. Colton presid-
ing.
	Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
mountain home so dear,” and prayer and
other usual opening exercises an address of
welcome and a report of the stake was given
by President Nancy A. Colton. The wards
or part of the wards had not been doing
much of late on account of the quarantine
for small pox. Spoke of the grain that had
been loaned out and the good it had done.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett further reported
the question of the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation for
it surely relieved the suffering of many peo-
ple, and they would receive it all back.

[Column 2]
	Recitation by Miss Clara Spears, entitled
“In the King’s Palace.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne spoke of the
scenery along the road, and congratulated
the people in their labors. Also spoke of
the mother’s work in the Relief Society,
advised the sisters to make their own plans
to work to. Explained the duties of the
teachers, said it is not only their duty to
look after the sick physically, but to build
them up spiritually. Thought mothers
should make heaven at home whether rich or
poor, whether living in a log house or a man-
sion. She felt to encourage the sisters to
work with their hands and brains together.
	Sister Vilate Bennion, from Salt Lake
City, was pleased to meet with the sisters,
she explained the mother’s work, we should
meet and get each other’s views and ideas,
referred to a speech that Elder Morris had
made in a Relief Society meeting that if they
can interest the mothers, they can win
the children. We should give our lectures
our greatest study, and ask all the questions
we can find on the subject.
	President Nancy A. Colton thought we
had heard a great deal of the Gospel; spoke
of mothers trying to control themselves, be-
fore they try to control their children.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. with sing-
ing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, choir and congregation
sang “Hail to the brightness.” Prayer and
singing.
	Sister Mary A. Stringham gave an outline
of the work the Relief Society are doing,
Spoke of mothers not neglecting their fam-
lies, but watching over and taking care of
them.
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported the Vernal
Relief Society in good condition.
	Sister Vilate Bennion spoke of the great
work we can do with the children if we only
persevere.
	Song by group of little girls led by Ethel-
wynne Collett, accompanied by Retta Bell.
	Sister Alice M. Horne had been delighted
with the singing, for people who love to sing,
love to work, and work is what we want. Spoke
of the power and ability each one is blessed
with, and thought we should try to develop
the ability in our midst, for that is what our
Prophet Joseph Smith did. We should
look into our families and see what gift our
children are blessed with and try and culti-
vate that gift. Said Aunt Bathsheba
Smith sent her greetings and best wishes.
She has confidence in the stake officers, she
then spoke on mothers work and encour-
aged the young women to join the Relief
Society.
	Elder Don B. Colton, first counselor to
the president of the stake, made an excuse
for President William H. Smart not being
at conference, said he is in the more scatter-
ed part of the stake, thinking that this part
is more able to take care of itself. “I know
that I voice his sentiments when I say we
feel the good the Relief Society does in the
community.” Referred to the suffering that
had been on the reservation and the help
that the Relief Society of this valley gave
them. Alluded to the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation and
the good it had done, he also advised the
sisters to gather grain in the time and season.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to give
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks for their
visit, thanked all who had helped in making
this conference a success.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Conference adjourned for three
months.	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


