“JOHN STEVEN’S COURTSHIP.”
	A new book has recently been issued from
the Deseret News office entitled “John
Steven’s Courtship.” The author is the ver-
satile and prolific writer and journalist,
Susa Young Gates, well and favorably known
both in the United States and Europe. Mrs.
Gates is a daughter of Brigham Young, and
possesses much of his marvelous ability.
	The book is unique in many respects; it
deals with facts and fiction ingeniously con-
nected, and cannot fail to deeply interest
its readers. Some names that the book
contains are as familiar to the people of
Utah as household words, and the Echo
Canyon war, of which it is really a story, is
one of the most historic events in “Mormon”
history, and marks an epoch in Utah that
is strongly emphasized because of its pathetic
and thrilling incidents and its triumphant
outcome. If it were only for the fact of its
dealing with this subject, the book should
recommend itself wherever it might be cir-
culated, certainly our own young people will
be more or less fascinated with a story that
deals principally with their own mountain
homes, and the stirring events of those
troublous times, never to be erased from
the memory of even the little children who
recall the incidents of what was significantly
spoken of then as “The Move South.”
	If the Mormon women who were living at
that time were to give personal experiences
of what transpired during that eventful year
from July, 1857 to the fall of 1858, it would
make a most romantic story without the
embellishment of fiction. There is no lack
of material for writing interesting reminis-
cences, and we assuredly are “a peculiar
people” with a wonderful history.
	“John Steven’s Courtship” ought to sell
well outside of Utah, and now that Salt Lake
City has become so famous that many thous-
ands of tourists visit it every year, Mormon
literature may perhaps become popular.
	Therefore, we are safe in saying this book
will have a ready sale, the simple title of
“Courtship” bespeaks its popularity to young
folks, and “Echo Canyon war” will appeal to
most people, and is a new subject for a story,
although given second place as a sub-
title.


