IN MEMORIAM.
	A brief sketch of the life of Sister Maren Peder-
sen.
	Sister Pedersen was born at Stroe, Sjolland,
Denmark, April 29, 1823 Her parents and her
children were greatly honored and respected
among their associates. They were prosperous
farmers and mechanics, and were possessed of
considerable musical ability. She and her hus-
band, Hans Pedersen, embraced the Gospel in
1862, emigrated to Zion in 1866, came to East
Mill Creek, but moved on the Weber in Summit
county, then removed to Wilford Ward, in the
Granite Stake, where they finally made their
home.
	Hans Pedersen died twenty years ago last
June.
	Sister Pedersen was the mother of ten children,
six of whom preceded her to the other side.
	She identified herself with the Relief Society in
1870, and later became a teacher in that organiza-
tion. She was a conscientious and faithful wotk-
er, kind to the poor and afflicted, even the ani-
mals shared her love and kindness. Her name is
found on the tithing, Relief Society and grain as-
sociation records; and wherever and whenever a
call was made upon her she always responded
cheerfully and liberally.
	She was very hospitable, none went from her
door hungry, and many she had clothed, like
“Dorcas of old.”
	She would card and spin and knit mittens and
stockings for many little cold hands and feet,
	She would rather deny herself than see others
suffer or go without help. She truly honored her
father and mother, for she lived her religion
faithfully; she also worked in the Salt Lake and
Logan Temples for her departed kindred as far as
she could secure their genealogy.
	She was the only member of her father’s house-
hold who embraced the Gospel, and because of
her faithfulness lived to a good, old age. She
enjoyed the love and tender care of her children
and grandchildren until the close of her eventful
life.
	Sister Pedersen died June 3, 1909, and leaves
one son, three daughters, twenty-seven grand-
children, twenty-three great-grandchildren and a
host of true friends, to mourn her departure. She
died as she lived in full faith of the Gospel, and a
hope of a glorious resurrection, as well as an
eternal union with her loved ones.
					ANSINE M. PETERSON,
In behalf of the Relief Society of the Wilford
Ward in the Granite Stake.


[Column 1]	
			TANTE RORA.
			A SKETCH.
	Were you ever in Berne—that quaintest
of all cities, with its dark arcades, its queer
clock of bears, representing the apostles, its
gates and towers, its bear pits? To step over
from sunny gay Paris into this queer little
place is like dropping back from the twen-
tieth century into the middle ages; and in
order to realize that one really is living in
modern times it becomes necessary to strang-
ers and students resident there, to slip away
occasionally to Paris or Berlin or some other
place with street cars and electric lights.
Yet if you really want to study life in human
pictures, the charm and quiet of this old-
fashioned place will draw you back and hold
you.
	Nowhere else in Switzerland are the Alps
more lovely—where else does the after glow
ever seem so bright? Long after the even-
ing shadows have fallen upon the valleys
and the lingering rays of the evening sun
have faded from the snowy peaks them-
selves, the mountains begin to glow from
their bases upwards as if illumined by a
bright internal fire. And then that beautiful
green river, the Aare, a hundred feet below
circling serpent-like around the city with its
fine historic bridges—all these form a pict-
ure not repeated on the map of Europe.
	Elsie Frost, a bright American girl from
the Rocky Mountain Region, was one who
experienced all these sensations. She had
been studying art in Paris, and off for a
sketching tour had suddenly come upon this
quaintest of cities and she felt as though she
had fallen into another world. With the
true instinct of the artist, however, she soon
found a wide field for her work and one of
her chief amusements was to study the peo-
ple of the “Matte.” These were those who
earned their two francs a day in the cotton
mills or soap factories or some such place.
On Mondays and Wednesdays the Hausfrau
does her washing—not hers alone but other
people’s too; and this was one of the most
interesting days of all to the young student.
None of your electrical motors nor modern
washing machines here—not even the old-
fashioned tub and washboard; but the “gute
Frau” carries her huge basket down to the
public street fountains, and oh, what gossip
and sociability is indulged in, and what a
picture! Four or five women glibly narrat-
ing the news of their neighbors in the
“Matte,’ while they soap and toss the soiled
garments back and forth on the stones of
the fountain. Elsie used often to wonder
how in the world the clothes ever became
clean without rubbing; but they did, in a
fashion at any rate; the constant flowing
water made fine cleansing.
	One dear old lady, Tante Rora they called
her, always had her clothes clean any way
and she was the one Elsie cared most about,
for she did Elsie’s washing.
	Tante Rora was very tall and not so dark
as most of the Bernese women; and it never
seemed quite natural to see her washing,
she had such dignity and calm demeanor.
When Tante joined in the gossip it was
usually to say some kind word in defense of
the one whose character was being assailed,
and she always seemed to Elsie something
better than her surroundings. Her language,
too, was not the harsh patois of the Ober-
land but something Elsie could better under-
stand, more like the German she was trying
to master under her teacher.
	The singing and babble of the women,
the splash and swish of the clothing on the

[Column 2]
wet stones, the romping and tossing of the
children among the baskets all had a charm
in keeping with the odd quaint city.
	One day Elsie succeeded in ingratiating
herself in Tante Rora’s good favor to the ex-
tent of getting invited to her home in the
Matte. This she had long wanted. Her
curiosity knew no bounds and she had many
times wished she could get inside these
homes, as she had wandered a good deal
through the dark passages, down the stone
steps and along by the river studying the
queer habitations. But she never seemed
to be able to get very close to the people.
Why should these humble folk think a
strange young girl, smart in her dainty
clothes, with her quick, jaunty air, had any
desire to know such slow, toiling bread-
earners! Yet that was just what she did
want—she had a burning desire to know
them and to study them. Artists don’t hunt
subjects in the universities and opera houses
of the world—there art itself is personified
—but in humble haunts where nature has
full sway.
	Few even of the peasants, in this day ever
wear those picturesque costumes of the Can-
tons but Elsie had noted with great satis-
faction that in the Matte some of the women
and girls went to church on Sundays decked
in these “adorable” costumes replete with
fluted stomacher, velvet bodice and collar,
silk apron, silver chains and all, and among
these was Tante Rora.
	In her mind Elsie framed all kinds of
romances about this tall dignified wash-
woman, but never one, if she only knew it,
that equalled the true romance. But let
that pass.
	She finally found her way to the home by
asking to make a study sketch of Tante in
her Swiss costume. The first visit led to
many more until she became quite a familiar
sight along the river front. In return for the
sittings and suggestions she received, Elsie
used to tell such wonderful things of the op-
portunities of her own western home that
several of the families in the Matte became
fired with a desire to emigrate to that great
America. She surely had told them how
low their earnings were in their own land
compared with what they could get in hers,
and she certainly meant them well when
she told Fritz, Tante Rora’s only son that
for what he now received, two francs, he
would get five times so much in America,
that, in fact, he would very shortly receive
enough so the “gute Mutter” would not need
to work at all.
	Through her good management the “gute
Mutter” had been able to save quite a little
hoard of money and she very gladly ad-
vanced this to her boy Fritz to emigrate to
this wonderful America, with the under-
standing that when he found this work
which would pay him so well he send for
his mother. 
	There was some commotion in the “Matte”
getting young Fritz ready for the long
journey; but finally the good-byes were said
and he started for Basle expecting there to
find an emigration agent sending other peo-
ple. He had not long to wait; a boat load
soon started down the Rhine, thence to Ant-
werp, where ship would be taken to bring
them across the broad ocean to the promised
land. He lifted his eyes to the great moun-
tains and watched them until he was far on
the way, tears for a moment in his eyes, but
hope in his heart; and with the bouyancy of
youth he was soon interested in the friendly
jargon around him, and the many expecta-
tions of his fellow-passengers.


[Column 1]
	Fritz was Tante Rora’s only son. She had
a daughter, Frieda, but she never spoke of
her, only perhaps to say, “She lives in the
city and we never see her;” and Elsie soon
learned that Frieda was not counted much
upon in the Matte, therefore not to be talked
about.
	In due time young Fritz reached America
and with the help of a letter Elsie had given
him, for she wisely advised him to go west,
he quickly found employment. His wages
it is true were much better than he had at
home, but he also found that it cost him
much more to live, and then the boy was
quite lonely and he soon began to think he
had better marry. After the first year he
wrote his mother how sorry he was not to
send for her but he had to pay for his room
and board and he hadn’t been able to save
the money.
	About this time the Butikofer family emi-
grated, bringing with them their daughter
Meta. Poor Fritz could not conceal his af-
fection for the pretty girl– he had known
her in his old home and he made haste to
make love to her now; and soon the two
were married.
	At the end of the second year he wrote
again how sorry he was but they were just
trying now to make a home for his mother
to come to, and besides, before long they
were going to surprise her with some good
news just now there were so many things
to get for Meta, but next year surely they
would send.
	And so it went; work was plentiful enough
for Fritz, but with the increase of many fam-
ily cares and the not too frugal ways of
Meta he never seemed to be able to save
anything towards bringing his mother to
him. He did not inherit the thrift and ec-
onomy of his mother, though his inten-
tions were good enough.
	After about three years Elsie found her-
self again in Berne, and she naturally sought
the gossips of the “Matte” at the fountains.
	To her surprise, there she found Tanta
Rora still soaping and splashing soiled gar-
ments on the stones of the fountains.
	“Why, Tanta Rora,” she exclaimed,
“hasn’t Fritz sent for you yet?”
	“No,” replied she, “Fritz is married now,
and has a baby boy and they must buy
a home, so he could not send.’
	“But he owes it to you,” said Elsie; “he
should have sent for you before he mar-
ried.”
	“He writes that perhaps next year he
will,” said his mother, “but by that time I
will have enough of my own to go.”
	And she did. She washed on Mondays
and Wednesdays, sold laces of her own
handiwork in the market on Tuesdays and
Fridays, and scrubbed on Saturdays, never
allowing herself any time for anything but
work, and at the end of the fourth year she
had enough means to go to the Basle, as
Fritz had before her, and engage passage
for America. Some few of her neighbors in
the “Matte” went that year also, so the voy-
age had at least some sociability about it if
nothing else pleasant. These poor steerage
passengers would find the voyage almost un-
bearable were it not for the companion-
ship they give each other.
	Tanta Rora was not so full of hope and
joy as her Fritz had been. Her hard life
had inured her to the old ways and customs
of her native land. She loved the great snowy
mountains, the river Aare, the bears, the dark,
arching towers and arcades of Berne. Her
heart was sad to leave it all and full of fore-
bodings of the long journey and the pros-

[Column 2]
pects of the new home. But one sweet
thought urged her on more than anything,
and that was to clasp to her breast the little
baby boy of whom Fritz and Meta wrote
such wonderful things. She hoped she
might never need to work so hard again,
but help Meta in the home and mind the lit-
tle grandson. But alas for poor Tanta Rora!
There was surely no surcease to her labors.
Fritz loved his mother, and so did Meta, of
course, very much, but about every year or
two a new baby came, and the little home
was not quite paid for, so the “Gute mutter”
must work just the same in the new land as
in the old, only here it was harder. The
modern methods somewhat puzzled her, and
the American ladies seemed so hard to
please. Meta showed her, however about
the washboards and the tubs, and the boil-
ing and sudsing and rinsing and starching,
so that in time she became quite profic-
ient and though she never could learn Eng-
lish, she learned the value of her work and
could easily compute American money.
That was about as far as her knowledge
of English ever went. From a friend she
learned that scrubbing the big stores at
night was also a genteel and profitable occu-
pation among her class, so she sought and
found employment at this.
	Thus, with the help of the “gute mutter”
the home was soon paid for, and many nec-
essary articles of clothing and furniture were
brought into it. Day in, day out, and night
as well, Tanta Rora worked at her washing
and scrubbing and when Sunday came she
was too tired to go anywhere, so she usu-
ally tended the “kinder” for poor Meta to
get a little change. She had one
regret on Sunday—she always longed to put
on her Swiss costume that the American
lady had thought so “perfectly lovely,” and
she brought it with her, but Meta and the
“kinder” said people would laugh at her, if
she wore such an odd habit, so it remained
folded in the wicker trunk in which it had
crossed the sea, and on Sunday she dressed
in the regulation ugly, plain black dress and
white apron of all old ladies who work for a
living.
	After some years abroad Elsie returned to
her western home, hung a few sketches on
exhibition in her native town, sold one or
two, then gave up a “career” and married
an old sweetheart, a prosperous business
man, and settled down to the usual routine
of calling, shopping, clubs and other social
duties of a successful, accomplished matron.
	One evening, happening to have called at
one of the big stores just at closing time for
some trifle, Elsie suddenly ran across Tan-
ta Rora just as she was entering to begin
her evening labor of washing up the floor.
She knew her immediately—Tanta Rora
was not the kind one easily forgets; and she
laughingly gave her greetings in the old
Swiss way. Elsie stopped long enough to
learn where Fritz’s home was, it was his home
now not his mother’s, and somewhat of how
they lived; then with a promise to look them
up she passed on.
	Tanta Rora’s heart was quite lifted up
with this encounter, and she hummed a tune
as she scrubbed that night, much to the
astonishment of the night watchman, who
had never heard her speak at all before.
Anyway, she was not the kind to complain,
if she ever thought there was cause, she
never said so, but made the best of every-
thing. Still she did hope the pretty Ameri-
can would come and see them. And really
Elsie intended to—she knew how it would
please the old lady to show off the numerous

[Column 3]
little grandchildren, but somehow she never
found time, their worlds were so far apart.
	One morning, when casually glancing
through the death notices of the morning
paper she came across a name which arrested
her attention. “Yes, surely that is she, for
besides the odd name, it says, native of
Berne, Switzerland. Poor Tanta Rora—so
that is the end, and I never went to see you
nor brought you here, though goodness
knows I intended to, for you were always
sweet to me.” Alas, what use are vain re-
grets! Why do we mortals so often lay
aside our true and good intentions and pick
up the false gods that surround our daily
life? However she meant to make amends
now as far as possible, and calling for her
carriage to be got ready, she ran to the tele-
phone and ordered a spray of flowers to be
ready for her when she called, then quickly
dressed and was on her way, for the paper
had said the funeral would be that morn-
ing. Having left her carriage at the corner
Elsie reached the little home just as the fam-
ily and friends in solemn array were march-
ing to the little church near by where the
services were to be conducted. Fritz she
would scarcely have known, now a short,
stout man with lines of care and hard work
on his face, and leaning on his arm was the
ever faithful, weeping. Meta, dressed in
full mourning, long black veil and all. Elsie
followed the procession into the church,
where had assembled a quaint company. It
was almost like being in Berne again, for
there were the friends of the “Matte” who
had gathered here, besides a few neighbors
and Churchmen. Elsie sent her flowers up,
then sat near the rear of the building, her
lovely self the one odd piece in that strange
setting. She soon adapted herself to her
surroundings, however, and began to pick
out familiar faces among the mourners.
Surely there were other groups of the Berne
fountains, Tanta Rora was not the only one
lured by tales of this wonderland! The
music was good, a German choir singing
German hymns, and the minister who
knew Tanta Rora well, knew her as Elsie
knew her—not the “wash woman,” nor the
“scrub lady,” but her worth, her thrift, her
kind deeds. He told of many kindnesses
to his parish, outside of what she had been
to her own, and then related how she had
saved enough means to pay for this beauti-
ful funeral.
	Poor Tanta Rora, did you slave day after
day, night after night to save enough for a fine
burial? Why could you not have had some of
these flowers, music, carriages, and fine
things in life, I wonder if you will ever know
how really fine they were? If so, no donbt
your soul is satisfied.
