WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	Before we realized any benefit from the
crops we had to live very close, sometimes
dig roots and pick greens to make a meal,
also shoes and clothing we could not get to
be comfortable. But one thing, the spirit
of mobocracy had lulled and we had peace
so far in Caldwell county. But the third
year after we had settled there and begun to
spread out and increase and prosper, the
enemy began to stir up the hearts of the peo-
ple. Mobs would come where there were
small settlements, and abuse the inhabitants
and turn their horses into the brethrens
cornfields, burn houses, and so on, until the
brethren had to stand in self defense; they
had been smitten on one cheek and turned
the other until they thought it was enough.
	The Haun’s Mill massacre, will ever be
remembered, and the stain will be handed
down to posterity of the notorious and
bloody butchery that befell the innocent
citizens by fiends in human form; there was
justice nowhere to be found. At Crooked
River there was a settlement, this was 20
miles from Far West. A band of mobo-
crats with a Methodist preacher at their
head (named Beauregard) for a captain,
rode into this settlement, took men prison-
ers without any cause whatever, insulted
women and destroyed property. Finally
the brethren dispatched a messenger in the
night to Far West for assistance. The al-
arm was given at midnight by the beating
of a drum on the public square. My hus-
band dressed and went over as quickly as
he could, to see what the matter was. They
made a call at once for volunteers to go to
the rescue of these brethren. He came
home and told me that he was going to
Crooked River that night with a company to
assist in dispersing the mob. I had a baby
two weeks old and ague and fever had set
in and no one to stay with me, but I told
him to go, I would do the best I could.
	The company started right away with this
short notice, for they had to stand as min-
ute men in these perilous times. They
rode on to the edge of the timber that skirt-
ed the river, when the guard of the mob fired
upon them and killed one young man by
the name of Obanion. Two or three of the
brothers took charge of him while the com-
pany went on down to disperse the camp of
mobocrats. The consequence was a battle.
The enemy was routed out, but not without
the shedding of blood. Captain D. W. Pot-
ter was wounded and died the next day,
Gideon Carter killed outright, and others
of the brethren wounded, but in the conflict
the enemy took to flight, and of course left
their company outfit. Some left their har-
ness, while others cut their horses loose and
rode them away; and in their flight some
left their guns, and as is always customary
in battle, the spoils of the defeated party
are taken by the victors, and in this case I
would ask who are the aggressors, and who
fired the first shot? Our brethren merely
went to this place to try and protect their

[Column 2]
neighbors from the ravages of this mob and
to make peace, if possible. Would or could
they see men shot down and not raise a
hand in defense of their fellowmen? Verily
the brethren were justified in what they did
according to both the law of God and the
law of the land. My husband had his sword
torn from him in the conflict, and in the
spoil he took a rifle. Now I suppose this
would be called stealing by some of the
enemy. Some of the most abominable
falsehoods have been in circulation about
the Mormons; such as Mr. Cullom alluded to
in his notorious speech.
	Well to return to my narrative. My hus-
band came home next day. I had not been
out of bed, for I was too sick; my little boy
Eli, five years old, to wait on me was all
the help I had. I saw at a glance there
had been trouble, and he related to me
what had happened and of the brethren be-
ing killed. It overcame me; and I was
sicker than ever.
	The news of the battle spread like wild-
fire through the state. This was sufficlent
to arouse the whole state to come out
against a few with their exterminating
orders, because for once our people stood in
self-defence determined to protect their
brethren from the outrages of these hostile
people, for they were nothing else, but as I
said the whole state was now aroused and
in arms to come against us: their leader,
General Clark, marched his hosts of thous-
ands up to within a mile and a half of Far
West and camped. Clark, with some of his
officers, came into Far West and demanded
our Prophet and brother Hyrum and several
others of the brethren and took them as
prisoners down to their camp, and put a
guard around them. Previous to their being
taken into the camp of the enemy Brother
Joseph had called the brethren together
and talked to them and told them to be val-
ant and firm and trust in God, he said, “I
never realized the enemy so near our doors,
but brethren be stout-hearted,” and said
many more things to nerve up and strength-
en them in their hour of peril, for it seemed
as though we were to be swallowed up by
this mighty host.
	As I said, they put a strong guard around
these brethren held a court martial and sen-
tenced them to be shot next morning. I was
still sick in bed, but that night I could hear
their martial band playing, and I can never
forget the sound, for it seemed that all the
infuriated demons of the lower regions felt
to triumph because they expected to see
these pure and noble men shot down. When
morning came their hopes were blasted.
True, as the song says, “God moves in a mys-
terious way,” and so on. All at once a spir-
it more noble than the rest (Colonel Doni-
phan) ordered the men under his command
into line and to march. Said he “I will
have nothing to do with such cold-blooded
murder.”  This caused a division, and an
insurrection in their camp, so their lives were
spared this time, and they were brought up
into the city and permitted to take leave of
their families and aged father and mother
with their little ones clinging to them and
crying. This scene of parting was enough
to melt the heart of stone.
	My husband did not witness this, for the
time had come that he had to take care of
himself for they were hunting for all those
that had been in the Crooked River battle.
These men were hurled off to prison to suffer
from hunger, thirst and cold during the win-
ter months. After they had secured these
prisoners, the General came into the public

[Column 3]
square and required the brethren to sign
over their property to defray the expenses of
the war, and made his speech, also gave his
order of extermination. The brethren had
to stake their arms. My husband had given
the gun he had taken among the spoils to
another previous, so it was among the rest,
his own he had taken apart, thrown the bar-
rel on the house, and the rest into the cellar,
so they did not get it.
	Well, it is told in Church history all these
events, and Clark’s speech concerning our
leaders and their fate and ours. I merely
bear my testimony of the facts because they
came under my observation. My house was
near the public square. Captain Beauregard
with his man were camped near my house.
They came to my house to search for arms
and for my husband, and they were close
upon him, but in God’s providence he
evaded them, and they never found him.
Although he could not remain around home,
yet he was in the city. They had a double
guard around my house. Myself, my oldest
boy, five years old then. Eli Tracy, now re-
siding in Huntsville, Utah, another boy
three years, and my baby, now three weeks
old, in my arms in bed, thus was I in prison
in my own house, and sick at that, with
nothing to nourish and strengthen me,
and only my little boy to give me
a drink of water. Finally Brother Wood
came with his wagon and told me
he would take me to his house, which he
did that day. I shook two hours with the
ague, and it was the last chill I had. I was
shaking when I was put into the wagon, as
though every bone in my body would drop
to pieces. So the guard had nothing bnt
the vacated house to guard.
	Now the crisis had come, we had got to
leave the state and not attempt to put in
another crop, if we did the citizens would be
upon us again. This, the General said, was
a decisionary power vested in him, to let us
stay until spring, so when he had driven the
hoop as tight as he could he told his armies
to go to their homes and hold themselves in
readiness in case they were called for again.
It was in vain to importune for redress,
there was no attention given to our entreat-
es. This crusade was suffered to go on
against an innocent people and no notice
was taken of it, no alternative but to sacri-
fice our homes and lands that were bought
and honestly paid for. And why this out-
burst of persecution? For the same reason
that in every age of the world when God had
a people on the earth they were persecuted,
imprisoned and put to death in like manner
for their religion; and because they wor-
shiped the true and living God and obeyed His
commandments, and not because they had
broken any law, because in the strictest
sense of the word they were a law-abiding
community, and no one honored and re-
vered the laws of the land more than the
Latter-day Saints, and were taught to do so,
and I know whereof I speak; and it is true,
and I feel constrained to write as I do, for
perhaps to some one who does not know
what to believe, there has been and is still so
much falsehood afloat about this people. I
say here is my testimony that there is not a
people on the face of the earth that is as
careful to obey and uphold law and good
order as the Latter-day Saints. I have lived
in the world and traveled much, have been
identified with this Church for fifty years,
and I speak according to knowledge. Well
it is all right, we are to be a tried people,
and to be like gold, seven times tried.
