EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are some important notes left over
that will appear in the next issue of the
paper, and an excellent article by Sister
Lydia D. Alder.
	The Regent of the Utah Society Daugh-
ters of the Revolution has received word
from the President General of the D. R.
Society of the U. S., Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, that she will visit the Utah State
Society in her Western tour; and it is ex-
pected she will arrive in this city, Thursday,
November 12, and remain until Sunday
afternoon, November 15. Suitable arrange-
ments are being made by the Regent and
Committees of members appointed by her,
and a good time is anticipated.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held the
first meeting after the summer vacation,
Sept. 16, 1909, at the home of the new
Regent, Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne. The oc-
casion was a very enjoyable one, the artistic
home being decorated in a pleasing style in
the Society colors. The Regent gave her
inaugural address to the daughters in a most
gracious manner, and cordially welcoming
them to her home. Other numbers of the
program was rendered, and the guests pro-
ceeded to the dining room where the table
had been laid in the prettiest way, and the
menu served was of the finest and daintiest
possible to obtain, fish baked in sea shells,
and other delicacies of the season, a large
bowl or vase filled with the choicest flowers
in the Society colors and covered with baby
wreath formed the center piece, with finest
linen, china, and cutglass, the table was a
delightful picture, and the ladies were in
the happiest mood imaginable. The con-
versation corresponded to the surroundings,
and the appetizing luncheon was thorough-
ly enjoyed. A very excellent and auspic-
ous beginning to open the 12th year of
work of the Utah State Society.
	Saturday, Oct. 16, 1909, the Daughters
of the Revolution held the second meeting
of the season in the handsome parlors of the
new and elegant residence of Dr. and Mrs.
Elias Wright. The rooms were beautifully
decorated, and the Regent, Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, opened the meeting promptly and
dispatched such business as required im-
mediate attention. The regular program
consisted of the reading of the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. B. Wells
with a view to prepare for discussion. This
was followed by Judge T. D. Lewis on Fin-
ance, etc., who spoke with painstaking in-


terest, explaining questions relating thereto
explicitly, and explained the term Bona-
fide holders of promissory notes in detail. A
rising vote of thanks was given Judge
Thomas D. Lewis for his interesting ad-
dress, and a delicious luncheon was served
to the company, including the Judge, after
which the session resumed the transaction
of important business, pertaining to the an-
ticipated visit in November of the President
General of the Society, Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, of Wakefield Mass. Mrs. E. B. Wells,
member of the Committee of the General
Society on Patriotic work presented the re-
quest from the Chairman of that Commit-
tee in reference to raising means to build a
suitable memorial to the sailors of the Revo-
lution at Annapolis, Maryland, a work
never yet undertaken. Mrs. Wells stated
that the President General of the society had
corresponded with the Department of the U.
S. Navy of the United States and had re-
ceived favorable replies in the matter. The
ladies responded graciously, although
the Regent felt they should be informed as
to what the memorial would be. Mrs.
Wells was not able to furnish that informa-
tion, as the whole matter is still in embryo.
Meeting adjourned after several committees
had been appointed to arrange for suitable
entertainment for the President General’s
sojourn in the city.


