GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Relief Society Conference was
a very interesting one, and the attendance
from outside stakes was quite numerous,
the program as published previously was
carried out in nearly every particular. Spec-
ial music was one of the enjoyable features.
The selections rendered on Tuesday after-
noon, Oct. 5, by Prof. J. J. McClellan on
the piano, and Prof. W. E. Weihe on the
violin, were a very great pleasure to all who
had the opportunity to hear the soul-
thrilling strains.
	The instructions by the venerable
president, Batesheba W. Smith, touched
every heart and her presence was in itself
most gratifying to all who had the pleasure
of seeing her once more in her accustomed
place upon the platform; her inspiring words
fell upon the ears of the congregation, re-
freshing all hearts. She welcomed the sis-
ters and blessed them in her peculiar grac-
ious way, speaking of her great love for
those engaged in the work, and entreated
them to keep the faith and teach it to their
children.
	The General Secretary, Emmeline B.
Wells, gave the report of the year’s work
and the principal events that had transpired,
mentioning the sisters who had passed away
during the current year—Counselor Annie
Taylor Hyde, and member of the Board of
Directors, Rebecca E. Little; also Sophia
Taylor Nuttall and Harriet Ann Taylor Badg-
er who had been missionaries for the Gen-
eral Society, and Laura H. Miner, a mem-
ber of the Board of directors when this Soci-
ety was incorporated in Oct. 1892, and had
served until after her removal to Logan.
Other important events were briefly men-
tioned.
	The General Treasurer, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, read the treasurer’s report of the
General Society receipts and disbursements
for the year, also the report of the building
fund and made special explanations in re-
gard to these very important matters; advised
the officers of the several stakes of Zion to
manage money matters systematically and
make it a point to be prompt and specific
in regard to this special department of Re-
lief Society business.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang most
exquisitely a solo entitled, “O Loving
Father,” Delriego.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Chairman of Nurse
Work, gave some instructions upon taking
care of the human body and knowing con
cerning it. and how essential to understand
more, especially for mothers, and our young
women, and urged the sisters in all the so-
cieties of Zion to take this matter in hand,
and she hoped that instead of thirty girls or
women in the nurse class, we should have
forty or more, referred to noble mothers as
examples, those who had been students of
such subjects as hygiene and health. Sis-
ter Beatie gave some quotations from Her-
bert Spencer and Mary Wood Allen, and re-
ferred to some special cases that had come
under her own observation.


[Column 1]
	Sister Minnie Horne James had the sub-
ject Study Lessons, which she spoke of as
an advance step in the right direction;
thought we had neglected the mental part in
the past, we had done much temporal work
to the neglect of the mind. We are anx-
ious to have things comfortable around us,
but if we would give more attention to gain-
ing knowledge we would be better qualified
to comprehend our true position. Some-
times we take up a book and read a page
and then turn back to see what we have
been reading before. Spoke of those who
thought they were too old to learn; referred
to a woman she knew who even learned to
read after she was sixty years old. Sister
James urged the sisters to study and im-
prove their minds, it would make them
more useful in any position in life, there is
everywhere opportunity to read and study.
	A sister from Alpine Stake spoke of one
ward in that Stake where questions were
written and handed to the sisters to be
answered. She knew of many instances
where women in years had studied and ac-
quired learning and knowledge; the sugges-
tion of handing questions in at meeting
seemed to be a good one to adopt whenever
apropriate.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry gave a
very instructive talk on the mother and the
child; referred to the time long ago of a
woman famous in the past who was gentle,
loving and tender, said we know of her beau-
tiful character and purity, we read in the
Greek mythology of Pandora, the first
woman. One day she lifted the lid of a
box, and three boxes contained all the vices;
she lifted the second time and Hope came
out of the box. Hope brings faith, and
what would we live for if it were not for
faith? She dwelt eloquently upon this sub-
ject. Napoleon said to Madame de Stael,
“All we need to make France the glory of
the world, is to have good women.” The
speaker dwelt upon this subject with much
pathos and enthusiasm, and proved how
much love and tenderness in the home
meant to all the household; the points taken
by the speaker were happily illustrated and
reference was made to the teachers who visit
the sick; love, sympathy and faith are nec-
essary to all, and music on the great harp of
life is what we all need and can cultivate to
make home and happiness.
	The officers and members of the Board
of Directors of the Society were then pre-
sented by Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, and
also the several Committees, names, etc.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, General President.
	Ida S. Dusenberry, Counselor.
	Emmeline B. Wells, General Secretary.
	Clarissa S. Williams, General Treasurer.
	Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon,
Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S.
Woodruff; Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Rich-
ards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrril
Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jen-
nings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox. Harriet B.
Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nib-
ley, Amy B. Lyman, Annie K. Hardy.
	Lizzie T. Edward, Musical Director.
	Edna H. Coray, Organist.
	Emma A. Empey, Superintendent Grad-
uated Relief Society Nurses.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor Relief
Society School of Nurses.
	Chairman Standing Committees:
	Emmeline B. Wells, Building Committee.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Relief Society School of
Nurses.

[Column 2]
	Clarissa S. Williams, Building Furnish-
ing Committee.
	Carrie S. Thomas, Press Committee.
	Julina L. Smith, Hospital Committee.
	Singing “Love at Home.” Benediction,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
	Adjourned to Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a. m.


