PRESIDENT WILLIAM H. TAFT.
	The visit to Utah of His Excellency the
Chief Executive of this nation, was an event
of considerable importance, and the fact of
his remaining three days in this state is cer-
tainly a favorable compliment to the people.
We hope and trust he will realize how deep-
ly the people of the state appreciate the
honor, and will better understand hereafter
the loyalty and patriotism of the pioneers
who settled the American Desert and made
it habitable for others to come, as well as
very desirable. President Taft’s address in
the Tabernacle was very pleasing and we
think profitable to the large congregation,
and his affable and unassuming manner
won all hearts; his text was well chosen,
and he handled the subject of his sermon
diplomatically, proving himself a very good
preacher of righteousness, if not accustomed to
the pulpit. Altogether the visit was a success
even if it was in a way fatiguing to go here
and there and see so much as he is seeing and
doing from day to day. The people who
saw the President here have had a most
favorable impression of his gracious and
dignified appearance, and we feel sure
Utah as a state appreciates the honor of the
visit and the children who saw him will
never forget while they live, for he is a man
of distinguished bearing, aside from his ex-
alted position.
	Perhaps the most unique feature of all
that was done for his entertainment here,
was the “Living Flag.” The sight of those
20,000 children waving the Flag of the Na-
tion and singing “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” brought tears to President Taft’s eyes,
and therefore it is apparent he is somewhat
emotional. The saying, “The bravest are
the tenderest,” is true today as it al-
ways has been.
	Much has been said concerning the Presi-
dent’s speeches and his sermon and his
journeyings through this mountain country
by the newspapers East and West, but it
only enhances the value of his visit to us,
who know the good that is always accom-
plished when honorable and just men see
things for themselves free from prejudice or
bias.
	We are, as a people, grateful and appre-
ciative of kindness shown, and have on
other occasions sought to do honor when
visits have been made by men in high posi-
tions, Presidents, Judges and members of
Congress, and the greatest men who have hon-
ored Utah by their presence have been favor-
ably impressed, and many have acknowl-
edged the courtesies extended to them.
	The Latter-day Saints have ever been hos-
pitable and kindly to the stranger within
their gates, and many great men and wom-


en of the world have been entertained in
“Mormon” homes.
	We sincerely hope and pray that Presi-
dent Taft may enjoy his extended tour
through the West and South, and return to
the White House in excellent health and
spirits to carry forward the labor and
responsibility incumbent upon the Chief
Executive of this great nation—the United
States of dear America.


