		PASSING THOUGHTS.

	October! rich, rare, ripe October!
	Month of red and golden hues, 
	Of purple skies and sparkling dews,
	Of ripened fruit and garnered sheaves,
	Of golden corn and rustling leaves,
	Spring’s hope and summer’s labor stilled,
	The promise of all dreams fulfilled,

	Women’s Clubs,—Victor Hugo said that
the 19th century was the woman’s cen-
tury; and some one else, equally great,
though now I forget who, has said that the
20th century was the child’s century, while
the truth of this matter is that in the 19th
century the world woke up to the fact that
progress is due to intellectual and not phy-
sical forces, and when women decide to
take off their kitchen aprons, and no longer
be counted as a simple fireside ornament,
or household drudge, but sometimes to think
and work with man beyond the narrow lim-
its of “four walls,” then the rapid time
of true development began.
	Women, with their subtler, finer intui-
tions, receiving educational advantages have
become a power in the world, and instinct-
vely their interests turn towards the better
training and care of the child. Women of
leisure no longer sit making mittens and
pin cushions for foreign missions, but are
delving into the problems of their home
towns, sanitary, moral, educational, and all
conditions with an aim to wipe out the im-
pure and unclean, both in thought and
deed, and keep the standard of progress
on the rise, to bring about a transformation
not only for the benefit of the present gener-
ation, but for those yet to come. The true
worth of club women is not to gain political,
financial or socialdistinction, though all are
good in their place, but to educate women
to the necessities of their surroundings, and
unitedly to better and uplift them. Higher
and better ideals not only for the woman
and the child, but for all mankind is the re-
sult of women’s clubs. The Latter-day
Saint women have their own organizations,
which have been of great benefit to them,
and there is nothing that is good and true
and elevating which cannot be introduced
into them. Indeed, if we wish to advance
and keep up the pace of progress with the
women of advanced thought, we must study
and learn and take advantage of all oppor-
tunities. By liberal discussions in our
meetings of those things that pertain to our
own education and advancement, as well as
that of our children, mingled with the testi-
mony and faith of our religious sentiment,
we may become foremost among all
women.
	Fine Feathers.—That fine feather make
fine birds is an old maxim taken for granted
these ages past; but is it true? Do the

[Column 2]
clothes one wears prove one either the true
lady or true gentleman? Are clothes either
a guide or a help to the insight of character?
I do not think so.
	Not long since, while waiting for a parcel
in a large department store, a little lady,
very plainly, almost shabbily dressed was
almost rudely brushed aside by the gentle-
manly? floor walker as he rushed forward
to meet two young women who had just
entered the store. The girls were quite
beautifully dressed. As they passed, there
was a rustle of silk skirts, a strong odor of
perfume and a flutter of waving feathers.
They were most politely shown to the de-
partment they wished, and some one sum-
moned to wait on them. The little lady
noted the difference, how she had patiently
awaited her turn at the counter, made her
necessary purchases and without any form-
alties prepared to leave the store. It hap-
pened that the same car on which this little
woman returned home were these two young
women and this is part of the conver-
sation she overheard: “My, I’m tired, I
believe I’ve tried on every suit in town to-
day.” “Say, wasn’t some of ’em swell,
and ain’t it just fun to turn around in front
of them big looking glasses and see your-
self in such finery, I felt almost rich in that
fifty dollar cloak in——while to tell the
truth I didn’t have a cent but car fare.”
	Now the girls in the stores had fitted and
displayed their goods to these two women,
believing by their appearance that they
could and would purchase, and they had
been grossly imposed upon. The two had
only been idling away an afternoon around
town, trying on expensive gowns just for
amusement.
	A very lovely young woman, who is a
nurse by profession was sent to the case of a
young married woman who had no provision
in her home for her approaching sickness,
not any decent underwear or bed linen or
little wardrobe, but lounged around all day
in a soiled wrapper and slipshod slippers,
reading cheap novels, and every evening
dressed up in a lace trimmed gown and a
picture hat and sauntered out to meet her
husband. The nurse thought perhaps she
felt that while she, the nurse, was there she
might as well take things easy, but every-
thing indicated that these habits were the
usual thing and surely no true lady would
be so very negligent of herself.
	A lady just returned from a trip through
the northwest, made the remark how simply
and neatly the women she had met dressed,
especially on the streets, and then compared
them to our own girls at home, saying that
the evening previous she had been out to
the Lake, and a storm came up, and she
was quite sure she had seen hundreds of
dollars worth of millinery destroyed, not
to speak of the wet and bedraggled appear-
ance of the elegant summer gowns. Few
had wraps of any kind, and certainly their
health was menaced.
	Surely a well and elegantly dressed wom-
an is a beautiful sight but that does not
follow that one’s clothes are the standard of
one’s breeding. Good taste and simplicity
in dress; for street wear in particular, are


far more commendable than showy and ex-
pensive articles. Extreme in dress is not
good taste and an inordinate fondness for
dress often leads to paths of sorrow.
The true lady is always the lady whether
clothed in satin or home spun. Fine feath-
ers do not make fine birds.
						A.W. C


