[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 101 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has recently recorded a series of hymns ''Sermons in Song.'' The selection is beautifully balanced, beginning with a morning prayer, continuing with hymns illustrating some of life's problems and satisfactions, and concluding with a benediction. ''Mrs. Smith's intonation is outstanding.... The rich and spiritual conviction of her voice makes her solos impart an impression of _ classical grace.' Roy M. Darley, Tabernacle organist, is accompanist for the recordings. Margaret Cousins, former managing editor of McCalls Magazine, and herself a noted writer, is now book editor for Doubleday and Company. She is author of We Were There at the Battle of the Alamo, and she collaborated with Margaret Truman Daniels on her autobiography Souvenir. Santha Rama Rau, eminent author and world traveler, is a native of India. She was educated in England and the United States, graduating from Wellesley College. Her best known book Home to India describes her homecoming and her point of view after years abroad. Dr. Elizabeth McSherry, twenty-six years old, is a resident pediatrician at New York's great Babies Hospital. Hers is one of the most difficult and most sought after training posts in medicine. She was one of thirteen women in a class of 130 medical students at Columbia University. Vesta N. Fairbairn, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and wellknown California poet, critic, and teacher, is president of the California Writers Guild. Mrs. Fairbairn receives much honor and distinction in this position, following such eminent writers as Lee Shippey, Allan Vaughan Elston, Irving Stone, and Dr. L. E. Nelson. For more than thirty years Robert Frost was honorary president of the Guild, and served in that capacity until his recent passing. Mrs. Lee Breedlove, wife of Craig Breedlove, famous speed racing enthusiast, and mother of five children, in October 1965, won the women's international land speed record on the Salt Flats near Salt Lake City, Utah. She drove her husband's jet racer at an average speed of 308.56 m. P. H. Margaret Mead, anthropologist and author of many scientific works, has written a new volume called The Family, describing many of the basic elements which comprise this basic unit of society. Ken Heyman supplied the illustrative pictures, representing families in forty-eight countries. Mrs. Robert (Allegra) Snyder is the woman part of a man-and-wife team who have written, directed, and produced a film in color, called "'Bayanihan,'' for a Philippine dance company. It blends rituals, customs, and _ traditions of the Philippine people. Mrs. Snyder has performed and_ choreographed in top-level productions, and she teaches dance education through films.