[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 135 | Lesson | Theology • The First Presidency — Keys of the Kingdom | Roy W. Doxey]
THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Fider Roy W. Doxey Lesson 72 — The First Presidency — Keys of the Kingdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 90, 91, 92) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To understand the place of the keys of the Priesthood INTRODUCTION In December 1832, the Lord instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith that all who should become members of the School of the Prophets should, by ordinance, be clean from the blood of this generation. (D&C 88:138-141.) They were told that wilful sinning would bring the penalty of being turned over to the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption. (DHC 1:323-324.) KNOWLEDGE AND SIN On March 8, 1833, the Lord gave Section 90 in which confirmation is made of blessings wherein forgiveness of sins was granted by the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith was informed _ that his sins were forgiven (verse 1), and both Sidney Rigdon and in the gospel plan. Frederick G. Williams were also given the same assurance. The Doctrine and Covenants Commentary brings our attention to the fact that the sins of these brethren were not serious, but as men learn more of their responsibilities in the Church and also advance in understanding of the need for closer observance to the commandments, they recognize wherein they may improve their lives. (Pages 576-577.) Is it not true that more knowledge of gospel principles brings the conviction by the Spirit that further efforts must be made to perfect one's life? THE KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD What are the "keys" of the Priesthood? Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received these keys at the hands of John the 


 Baptist, Peter, James, and John and the heavenly visitants mentioned in Section 110. Without these powers the Lord's Church would not be a kingdom of order. With the prophet holding these powers throughout the world, he may direct the use of the Priesthood by every person who has received an ordination to the Priesthood. The ''keys'' constitute the power to direct the use of the Priesthood. An important principle, also, that every person should know is derived from an understanding of the functioning of these keys. No male ordained to the Priesthood may exercise this authority in performing ordinances unless he is given permission to do so. The Priesthood ordination bestows the power to act for the Lord, but the person's acts in using the Priesthood are not valid if the Church officer over him has not authorized him to use the Priesthood. For example, in the ordinance of baptism, even though one may be an ordained high priest, he cannot baptize unless the bishop of his ward or the presiding officer where he resides gives him permission to baptize. The bishop, in this case, holds the keys of authority in his ward. Similarly, a stake president holds keys for his stake. But, in both of these cases, neither bishop nor stake president has authority to function outside of the ward or stake over which he is set apart to preside. Thus, the powers of presiding, under the keys of the Priesthood, are limited to the jurisdiction given to the officer by the authority of the President of the Church. The prophet sees that the Lord's work is carried on throughout the world by confer- 136 ring local jurisdiction to the many officers who function under him. JOSEPH SMITH AND THE KEYS Six months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a revelation in which he instructed the Church that there is only one man at a time who holds all the keys of the Priesthood. At that time it was the First Elder of the Church—Joseph Smith. It was indicated in that revelation that the Prophet was to hold these powers "until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead" (D&C 28:7). Even the appointment of the Prophet to preside over the Church was to be done by the common consent of the Church, by the prayer of faith. (Ibid., verses 12-13.) Onehalf year passed and a situation arose in the Church that demanded a reiteration of the principle of one revelator for the Church. Another person claimed such a right, but the Lord's kingdom is one of order. In the course of this reaffirmation of this most important principle, the Lord said concerning Joseph Smith: And this ye shall know assuredly— that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me (Jbid., 43:3). Before the Quorum of the Twelve was appointed, the Lord made known that the Prophet would hold the keys of the kingdom throughout time. And eternity. Verily I say unto you, the keys of the kingdom shall never be taken from. You, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the church (Ibid., 90:3-4). THE TWELVE AND THE KEYS The expressions "oracles" and "even to the church" are explained. In this authoritative passage: In the plural it [oracles] means the Revelations given by God (Rom. 3:2; I Peter 4:11) Yet when the Prophet should be taken the "oracles" would be given to another, "'even to the Church." Therefore after the martyrdom the keys remained and were in possession of the Church and exercised through the presiding council, which at that time was the council of the Twelve Apostles, and in the Church the oracles are found and will continue unto the end of time (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 577). When the Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred, the President of the Twelve Apostles and the other members of the Twelve presided over the Church. What powers do the apostles possess which would give them authority to preside over the Church upon the death of the Prophet? Among others, President Wilford Woodruff has left his testimony of the conferring of the keys of the Priesthood by Joseph Smith upon the Twelve. The last speech that Joseph Smith ever made to the Quorum of the Apostles was in a building in Nauvoo, and it was such a speech as I never heard from mortal man before or since. He was clothed upon with the Spirit and power of God. His face was clear as amber. The room was filled as with consuming fire. He stood three hours upon his feet. Said he: "You Apostles of the Lamb of God have been chosen to carry out the purposes of the Lord on the earth. Now, I have received, as the Prophet, seer and revelator, standLESSON DEPARTMENT ing at the head of this dispensation, every key, every ordinance, every principle and every Priesthood that belongs to the last dispensation and fulness of times. And I have sealed all these things upon your heads. Now, you Apostles, if you do not rise up and bear off this kingdom, as I have given it to you, you will be damned." I am the only witness left on earth that can bear record of this, and I am thankful that I have lived to see the day in which I stand (Conference Report April 1898, page 89). What process continued the existence of the keys of the Priesthood following the martyrdom of the Prophet? At the time of the ordination of each apostle he is given all of the Priesthood authority received by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The conferring of the keys of the Priesthood does not diminish the Priesthood of the person performing the ordination. There are thousands of elders holding the same authority. Similarly, there may be many who hold the keys of the Priesthood, as the Twelve Apostles, but there is only one person at a time who holds these keys actively; that is, to receive revelation for the Church and to direct its activities. The Twelve Apostles hold these keys inactively; that is, they use these latter authorities when called upon by the President of the Church, and when the President dies, they use these powers to appoint the new President of the Church by revelation. THE KEYS AND WORTHINESS President Joseph F. Smith discussed these powers and the need for worthiness on the part of him who holds them, as indicated in verse 5 of Section 90. 


 If any man in that position should become unfaithful, God would remove him out of his place. I testify in the name of Israel's God that He will not suffer the head of the Church, him whom He has chosen to stand at the head, to transgress His laws and apostatize; the moment he should take a course that would in time lead to it, God would take him away. Why? Because to suffer a wicked man to occupy that position, would be to allow, as it were, the fountain to become corrupted, which is something He will never permit. And why will he not suffer it? Because it is not the work of Joseph Smith; it is not the work of Brigham Young or of John Taylor. It is not the work of man but of God Almighty; and it is His business to see that the men who occupy this position are men after His own heart, men that will receive instructions from Him, and that will carry out the same according to the counsels of His will (Journal of Discourses 24:192). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY ORGANIZED On March 18, 1833, ten days after Section 90 was received, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President, Sidney Rigdon, First Counselor, and Frederick G. Williams, Second Counselor. The Prophet recorded the event in_ these words:. I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my Counselors; after which I exhorted the brethren to faithfulness and diligence in keeping the comfnandments of God (DHC TI: 304). KEYS AND PRESIDENCY When the First Presidency meets as a quorum, the brethren act by reason of the keys of the kingdom. The Lord has revealed wherein this quorum's decisions would be valid—and also the 138 Council of the Twelve and the First Council of the Seventy— only by the unanimous voice of each member of the quorum. Then the virtues which should influence righteous decisions were also enumerated, such as meekness, patience, godliness, and so forth. (D&C 107:27-31.) When the President dies, the Quorum of the First Presidency no longer exists. This is what the Prophet Joseph Smith said in a meeting with the Twelve Apostles on January 26, 1836:... The Twelve are not subject to any other than the first Presidency... And where I am not, there is no First Presidency over the Twelve (DHC II:374). From the foregoing, it is clear that the counselors act under the direction of the President, and their authority exists only as long as there is a President. Otherwise, they, if apostles in the Quorum of the Twelve, return to their places of seniority in that quorum. The Twelve Apostles, holding the keys of the Priesthood, become the active leaders of the Church, with the President of the Twelve being in charge of the Church and the other members of the Twelve as counselors until the Quorum of the First Presidency is organized. In all matters the President of the Church presides; his counselors assist him. In the following verse the Lord sets forth clearly the powers of the President. And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom (D&C 90: 16). At this time (March 1833) the First Presidency was to hold not only the keys of the Church but also the keys to the School of the Prophets. (D&C 90:7.) But in both of these administrations Joseph Smith was to preside. (Ibid., verses 12-13.) THE PAST AND THE FUTURE Through the work of the First Presidency, preparation for giving the gospel of salvation to the inhabitants of Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) and to the nations was to go forth. Other nations were to hear the message through the missionaries who were to present the gospel to the Gentiles, first, and then to the Jews.- (D&C 90:8-9.) This instruction is in fulfillment of prophecy. With the complete fulfillment of this prophecy, yet future, the Lord's power will be demonstrated in the bringing about of a paradisiacal environment, which will characterize the millennial reign of the Savior. The gospel shall be taught in that day in the various languages. (Verses 10- 11.) OTHER DUTIES OF THE PROPHET At an earlier date the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in the "translation" (revision) of the Bible. The Prophet's present responsibility was to work on this revision and then to attend to his other duties. Only some of the responsibilities of the Prophet are mentioned in this revelation to indicate ways in which he was to preside over the affairs of the Church. The President of the Church is to receive revelation and thus to make known the mysteries of the kingdom. (D&C 90:13-14.) Here ~ LESSON DEPARTMENT again is repeated the important principle that the Prophet is to receive revelation for the Church and to "'set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom" (verse 16). Significant among the Prophet's duties was this counsel, which would be applicable to all members of the Church:. And study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people (Verse 15). Applicable to the Latter-day Saint is the admonition to beware of pride. To set one's house in order means to overcome the weaknesses which prevent close communion with the Holy Ghost. A part of this endeavor is to be clean in body and mind and to be industrious. (Verses 17-18.) TEMPORAL INSTRUCTIONS Verses 19 through 33 contain several instructions concerning temporal matters. For example, Frederick G. Williams was to have a home for his family; the debts of the Lord's storehouse were to be paid; and counsel was given on the number who should be accommodated in the home of Joseph Smith, Sr. In verse 25 the meaning of "let your families be small" pertains to those not of his immediate family who were receiving lodging in his home. Reference is made to Vienna Jacques, the only woman other than the Prophet's wife, Emma, who is mentioned by name in the Doctrine and Covenants. (Ibid., 90: 28-31.) She was to go to Jackson County, Missouri, and receive a stewardship from the bishop. 


 IMPORTANCE OF COVENANTS An outstanding message in Section 90 is the following: Search diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another (Verse 24). The expression "the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another" has at least two meanings. First, when one enters the Church by baptism he covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord. The member of the Church who does not continue in this agreement no longer represents the Lord and, thus, his actions cast reflection upon all members who are endeavoring to demonstrate their true citizenship in the kingdom. Secondly, the agreement to work for the salvation of the living and the dead was also made in the preearth life. "Joseph Smith, by revelation, instructed the Saints and said that the Lord 'ordained and prepared' the means, 'before the foundation of the world, for the salvation of the dead who should die without a knowledge of the Gospel.' "' (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Way to Perfection, page 176.) ZION WARNED In the concluding verses of this revelation, a warning was given to Zion that if she did not repent, she would be chastened until she was clean. (D&C 90:34-37.) The literal fulfillment of this prophecy is history. The saints were literally driven from Missouri because of their transgressions. (Ibid., 101:1-8; 105:1-10.) 140 Many of the prophets, subsequent to the expulsion of the members of the Church from Missouri, have applied this warning to us of a later period. Among these was President Wilford Woodruff, who said: We have been favored, as no other people have, with wise counsels. Their extent and variety are immeasurable. They cover every department of human life. So far as we have observed them, prosperity and happiness have been the results. Whatever difficulties we may have to contend with to-day are due, if not wholly, at least in great part, to our disregard of them (An Epistle of the Council of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Semi-annual Conference, October 10, 1887, page 9). SECTION 91 While the Prophet was revising the scriptures, he inquired of the Lord concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament. These books, being of uncertain origin, were once a part of the Protestant Bible, and they continue to be in the Douay version (Catholic). Section 91 informs us that although the books in the main were translated correctly there were many additions by the hands of men. It was unnecessary for the Apocrypha to be revised, the Prophet was advised, but by the Spirit the reader could distinguish between the truth and the spurious. SECTION 92 This revelation is a commandment that Frederick G. Williams be received as a'member of the United Order. The expression "you shall be a lively member" is a first principle with Latterday Saints. They know that the active member receives the manifold blessings of participation, one of which is to know that a commandment is being lived. (D&C 42:40.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the keys of the Priesthood? Who, today, holds these keys? 2. What provision has the Lord LESSON DEPARTMENT made for the continuation of the keys of the Priesthood although the President of the Church dies? 3. Discuss: "Remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another." 4. What warning did the Lord give in Section 90 that is applicable to us today? 5. What value do you think Sections 91 and 92 are to you? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 72 — '"'He that Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken" (D&C 88:83) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the @ Both King David and his son Solomon realized the wisdom of seeking and finding the Lord early in their lives. David, the psalmist, sang, "O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee" (Psalms 63:1). Solomon records, "T [the Lord] love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me" (Proverbs 8:17). David, who became one of the greatest of all Israel's kings, sought the Lord while he was very young and thus became a chosen vessel. When the great prophet Samuel, who also had sought and found the Lord early, was searching for a future king to take Saul's place, he came to Lord as early as possible in our lives. Bethlehem. By commandment of the Lord he sought one of Jesse's seven sons. Jesse, the proud father, brought his sons before Samuel and thought surely the Lord would choose his eldest. "But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Samuel 16:7). The Lord had chosen David because he had sought him early while still only a boy and his heart was fully in tune with the Lord's spirit.