[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 151 | Lesson | Literature • Facing Death — Part II Bruce | B. Clark]
LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 15—Facing Death—Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 443-444 and 448-472) For Fourth Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To help us view death with confident @ The lesson for this month covers five short poems and one longer poem, plus excerpts from four other poems—all concerned with the subject of death. As Latter-day Saints we understand that there are two deaths: physical death, which is the temporary separation at the close of mortality of the spirit from the body; and spiritual death. We also understand that all people, however righteous or sinful, will, through the _ resurrection of Christ, triump over physical death to a reuniting of the spirit and the body at the time of resurrection. Triumph over spiritual death through the atonement of Christ is also available to all people, but only those who repent of their sins and obediently live the laws and ordinances of the gospel will fully overcome spiritual death and live in eternal exaltation in the celestial kingdom. In earlier lessons we have seen how literature explores the problem of sin and triumphs over sin. This lesson is concerned, more affirmation rather than with dread. Particularly, with physical death and the assistance that literature can give in cultivating healthy attitudes towards it. ATTITUDES IN DEATH Probably the most solemn experience shared by all humanity is the inescapable fact of death —which comes to every mortal being. How we as human beings act and react in the face of death is and has always been one of the principal concerns of literature. Even more than love, death has been the central focus of literally thousands of novels, dramas, stories, and poems. In their views on death, writers tend to reflect the variant attitudes of people as a whole. Sometimes they fear it as mysterious and unknown, or look forward to it as a step toward eternal progression. Sometimes they dread it as a condition or suffering in consequence of mortal sin, or anticipate it as a place of bliss after mortal suffering. Some are 


 merely curious about it, or defiant of it, or resigned to it. Others treat it tenderly and some brutally. Still others speak of it optimistically or pessimistically, sometimes with sad beauty, and sometimes with grotesque ugliness. Theologically, a writer may either look on death as the end of existence, or he may look on it as a doorway to continued life. On pages 448-452 of Out of the Best Books are printed excerpts from four poems by James Thomson, Edward Fitzgerald, A. C. Swinburne, and Robinson Jeffers which give extremely negative and pessimistic views on death, ranging from hedonism (the doctrine that pleasure is the highest good), to nihilism (total disbelief in religion or in established laws). The reason these are included in the text is that the beauty and truth of the affirmative poems with which this lesson is primarily concerned are heightened by the powerful contrast of the negative poems. AFFIRMATIVE VIEWS ON DEATH For a full printing and discussion of the six poems developing attitudes fundamentally harmonious with the gospel, the reader will need to-see pages 453-472 of Out of the Best Books. Space here will: permit only briefer treatment, but still sufficient to feel the basic faith of these poets. First let us turn to Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616): Poor soul, the center of my sinful earth, Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth, 152 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? » Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross: Within be fed, without be rich no more. So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men, And Death once dead, there's no more dying then. This poem is not difficult as soon as we realize that the word "soul" refers to what we normally call the spirit, and that the '"'sinful earth" is the physical body, which in line 9 is also referred to as the "servant" of the soul. Shakespeare, in vivid, eloquent language is appealing for us to stop wasting so much time, money, and concern on the "fading mansion" of our body; rather we should cultivate the growth of the spirit within. For surely a tenant would be foolish to spend a fortune on a rented mansion with only a short-term lease. Therefore, Shakespeare concludes, '"'Within be fed, without be rich no more." This central idea of the poem is summarized in the beautiful closing couplet asserting that men should "feed on Death, that feeds on men"— that is, look through death to the life beyond, for once death is experienced, men will live immortally. JOHN DONNE'S SONNET ON DEATH The sonnet 'Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne (1571- 1631) is similar in both manner and language to Shakespeare's sonnet: Death, be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so; 'Fo those whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow 'Die not, poor Death; nor yet canst thou kill me. Form rest and sleep, which but thy pictures be, Much pleasure; then from thee much more must flow; And soonest our best men with thee do go— Rest of their bones and souls' delivery! Thou art slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men, And dost with poison, war, and sickness dwell; And poppy or charms can make us sleep as well And better than thy stroke. Swell'st thou then? One short sleep past, eternally, And Death shall be no more: thou shalt die! Why we wake Death, Death is here personified as proud and arrogant in its seeming triumph over life, but "Be not so" says the poet. '""'Those whom you think you conquer do not really die. Your victory is temporary and incomplete. You cannot really kill men; for after a short sleep in the grave, we wake eternally. Then death is no more. Indeed, death itself shall die!"' A MODERN POET'S VIEW Shakespeare's and Donne's sonnets were written centuries ago, but modern poets have also lifted their voices in exultation that life ultimately triumphs over death rather than vice versa. One of the strongest modern voices has been that of the great Welsh poet Dylan Thomas (1914-1953), LESSON DEPARTMENT whose powerful 'And Death Shall Have No Dominion" is printed on page 457 of the text. In the poem, Thomas vigorously declares the power of life over the power of death. Though the body be lost in the depths of the sea or smashed into fragments or otherwise totally destroyed, yet that which is vital and eternal shall live on—''And death shall have no dominion." Though even the mind, broken by disease or experience, may go mad, yet it shall be restored to its full faculties—"And death shall have no dominion." Moreover, not only life, but also the ideals we live by, are eternal: lovers may be untrue, men may lose their faith, and evil may dominate a human personality; but still Love and Faith and Goodness shall live on—"''And death shall have no dominion." ROBERT BROWNING AFFIRMS IMMORTALITY This month's lesson also covers two poems, 'Prospice' and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," by Robert Browning (1812-1889), whose vigorous affirmation of life's values here and hereafter we have already seen at various times earlier in these lessons during the past two years. '"Prospice'' is sufficiently brief that it can be printed in full here: Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat, I The mist in my face, When the snows begin, and the blasts denote I am nearing the place, The power of the night, the press of the storm, The post of the foe; Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form, Yet the strong man must go. 


 For the journey is done and the summit attained, And the barriers fall, Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained, The reward of it all. I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more, The best and the last! I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forbore, And bade me creep past. No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers, The heroes of old, Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears Of pain, darkness, and cold. For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave, The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiendvoices that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! This little poem, whose title means "look forward," is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude towards the experience of death: he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem, as with great confidence, Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ('"O thou soul of my soul'), who had recently died. In order fully to understand and appreciate this poem, we need to know that it grows out of the extraordinarily beautiful love, courtship, and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. After fifteen 154 years of rich marriage, Mrs. Browning died in Italy in 1861, and sometime thereafter Browning wrote "Prospice," expressing his confidence that their love is eternal. (For fuller comments on this beautiful love and marriage, see page 460 of the text.) Although it is too long to be printed in this Magazine, "Rabbi Ben Ezra" might well serve as the center of discussion for this month's lesson because it is both artistically and _ philosophically the richest of the six poems covered. The robust vigor of its tone begins with its very first stanza: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in His hand Who saith, ""A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" Following this assertion that God formed man's life as a united whole, youth and age each being integral halves, Browning then moves, starting with stanza 3, to a rejoicing that man is not a mere animal living in the selfish needs of the flesh. Instead, we are allied to God, who provides the example of unselfishness for us. "A spark disturbs our clod" —the spark of the divine spirit that inhabits the mortal body and separates man from the animals. Therefore, because of our immortal spirits that need to grow through the challenges of earthly experience, we should "welcome each rebuff" and "sting" and "pain" that are steps along the road of endless progression. We should accept life's challenge to "strive," "learn," "dare." Man is a mere brute unless the spirit 'within his body aspires to subdue and live above the desires of the animal flesh. But man does aspire. This is why he is man, and all according to the '"'whole design" of the Creator. "Perfect I call the plan,"' says Browning in stanza 10. And even as youth and age are two halves of mortal life, so body and spirit are two halves of man's total essence, each necessary to the other. (Stanzas 11 and 12.) Stanza 13 is a key passage in the poem, for here Browning states that, matured by life's experiences, man is "a god, though in the germ'—one of the most explicit statements in all literature harmonizing with the Latter-day Saint doctrine that men and women have the potential to become gods and goddesses. Note also Browning's rejection of the "scientific" theory of evolution that man is merely a "developed brute." Man has a divine spirit, says Browning, setting him forever apart from all other forms of life on earth. Beginning in stanza 14, Browning makes another analogy: Even as youth and age are halves of the whole of mortal life, and body and spirit are halves of the whole of man's essence, so mortal life and life after death are related parts of continuous existence— and Browning says he is ready to start on his "adventure brave and new' of life beyond death. The past and the present are both preparations for the future, and all are united in a perfect plan. Therefore, do not be afraid to face death, he says in stanza 19; for even as seeking should characterize youth, so knowledge should characterize age. And this can be "knowledge absolute" he Says in stanza 20, reaffirming his LESSON DEPARTMENT position in stanza 21 when he adds, "Let age speak the truth and give us peace at last." I realize, Browning says in stanza 22, that for every man who believes as I do about life and death and immortality, there may be ten who believe otherwise. The way of the world is to be weak in faith and to argue (see stanza 26) that since life is fleeting and the future uncertain, we should seize the pleasures of today. In answer to this point of view, Browning makes one of his strongest statements in the poem: Fool! All that is, at all, Lasts ever, past recall; Earth changes, but thy soul and God stand sure. What entered into thee, That was, is, and shall be. (from Stanza 27) Man's mortal existence, Browning repeats in stanza 28, is simply part of God's perfect and immortal plan, a school wherein man's soul can be given direction and growth. Look up, therefore, not down (stanza 30), and trust in God's divine wisdom, following his plan that will shape men to perfection for the eternal life ahead. Surely this is one of the great short religious poems of the world, and especially so to Latter-day Saint readers because its views are so beautifully harmonious with truth. The poem can be read in full on pages 461-466 of Out of the Best Books and is also easily available in almost any other book containing some of Browning's poems. In it Browning does not give Latter-day Saint readers theological knowledge beyond that we already have. The gospel gives us the 


 fulness of religious truth. Even so, it is reassuring to discover that one of the great poets of the world, in one of his major poems, expresses thoughts harmonizing with the truths of the scriptures. "We Are Seven'' The final poem in this month's lesson is ""We Are Seven" by William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Like the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, "We Are Seven" has an especial appeal to Latter-day Saint readers, because, although among all people there is a hopeful yearning that the family unit may endure beyond the grave, the: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is apparently the only Christian church which officially teaches that the family unit may so endure. On this — theme, and on the scriptural idea that we can sometimes be led by children and learn wisdom out of their spontaneous, intuitive feelings, "We Are Seven" is written (Text, page 471). Although this poem is fairly short, there is not space to print either the poem or a full discussion of it here. Literature leaders desiring to use it—and we assume many will, because the poem is very simple and lovely—will need to turn to pages 469-472 of Out of the Best Books. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. In line 11 of his sonnet Shakespeare counsels us to "buy terms divine." In the light of the sonnet as a whole, what does this phrase mean? 2. The climax of Donne's sonnet is the statement, "Death thou shalt die!" Explain the meaning of this. 3. Explain as fully as possible in Dylan Thomas' poem the meaning of the refrain "Death shall have no dominion." 4. As evidenced by '"Prospice" and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," point out specific places in which Browning shows insight into religious truth regarding death and life after death. 5. Is the little girl in "We Are Seven" intuitively wise or merely impulsive and stybborn? Explain.