[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 114 | Home | Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions — Part IV | Rosa Shurtz]
Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part IV — DESSERTS AND PUNCH Rosa Shurtz ® Nothing can finish a meal to perfection like a pie, cut evenly, set neatly in the center of the plate, and topped with a swirl of whipped cream or a little mountain of meringue. Prepared fillings are often more economical than starting from scratch, but sometimes the flavor isn't up to homemade. Try experimenting by adding more lemon juice, sugar, and butter to lemon filling. To make more volume for each package, fold the cooled filling into meringue instead of putting meringue on top. All fillings can use a little salt, more flavor, sugar, and a bit of butter. Don't be afraid to dress up a dessert with chopped nuts, grated chocolate, or whipped cream. Whipped cream can be an expensive item unless you are in a farming community. Try whipped topping made from dry milk crystals, which work very well in any dish using a gelatin base. Use the expensive cream for the finishing touches. On cobblers, crisps, or deep-dish desserts, part whipped dry milk topping can be folded into whipped cream. This adds to volume and cuts cost and calories. It doesn't hold well but must be used immediately. BASIC FRUIT PIE 114 qts. Juice from fruit 14 c. Lemon juice 114 c. Cornstarch 1% Ib. Butter 144 qts. Sugar 2 No. 10 cans water packed fruit, 1 tbsp. Salt drained Heat 1 quart juice to boiling. Mix one pint of juice with cornstarch and add, while stirring, to hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Stir in sugar, salt, lemon juice, and putter. Add drained fruit. Mix carefully. Cool and fill pastry lined pans. Cover with pastry. Bake at 425° thirty minutes until brown. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. May be poured into baked crusts and topped with whipping cream. Apricot Pie: use halved apricots. Berry Pies: 2 tsp. Cinnamon may be added with sugar. Cherry Pies: add red food color and almond flavoring. Peach Pie: almond flavoring and cinnamon may be added. Pineapple Pies: Tidbits or crushed pineapple. 114 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 6 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin 2 tsp. Ginger 114 c. Cold water 2 tsp. Nutmeg 214 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon 2 cans pumpkin No. 2 size 14, tsp. Ground cloves 3 c. Milk; 15 eggs, yolks and whites 1 tbsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cream of tartar Soften gelatin in cold water, mix pumpkin, milk, egg yolks, spices, salt, sugar, and cook, stirring until thick, add gelatin, stir until dissolved, and chill until syrupy and thickened. Add cream of tartar to egg whites, beat until stiff. Add two and a half cups of sugar, gradually, beating constantly, until stiff peaks are formed. Fold into pumpkin mixture. Pour into pie pans which have been lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham. Crackers, or ginger snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Six 9-inch pies or 50 tarts. BASIC CITRUS CHIFFON PIE 27 egg yolks 1 tsp. Green, yellow, or orange food 334 c. Sugar coloring 214 tsp. Salt 5 c. Boiling water 3 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or 214 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or grapegrapefruit juice fruit flavored gelatin 10 tbsp. Grated rind from any of the 5 c. Egg whites above fruits 5 tsp. Cream of tartar 334 c. Sugar Mix first six ingredients together and cook over low heat, stirring until mixture boils. Remove from heat. Stir gelatin into boiling water, and beat into hot custard. Chill, and when partially set, beat until smooth. Add cream of tartar, to egg whites, beat until frothy, and add sugar gradually. Beat to very stiff peaks and fold into gelatin mixture. Pour into pie pans lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham crackers, or ginger-snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Ten 10-inch pies. VARIATIONS: Strawberries or pineapple may be used, 3 cups juice drained from either. Use strawberry or lemon gelatin. Fold in strawberries or crushed pineapple. BASIC PARFAIT PIE 534, c. Crushed pineapple 2 qts. Vanilla ice cream 4 pkgs. Lime-flavored gelatin 6 nine-inch pie shells 1144 qts. Water and juice drained from pineapple Drain fruit, reserve juice. Add water to syrup to make 114 quarts. Bring to boil and dissolve gelatin in hot liquid. Chill until thick as honey. Whip at medium speed about 12 minutes or until double in bulk and thick and fluffy. Soften ice cream to thickness of stiff whipped cream and at low speed add ice cream and pineapple. Mix until just evenly distributed. Pour into pie shells. Chill until firm. Yield: 6 nine-inch pies. VARIATION: Any fruit may be used, canned or fresh. Add sugar to fresh fruit and let set. Drain juice. Use gelatin same flavor as fruits. Garnish with whipped cream. 


 OATMEAL CRUST 2 qts. Quick oats 1 tbsp. Salt 2 2/3 c. Sifted flour 2 2/3 c. Melted butter 2 2/3 c. Brown sugar Mix oats, flour, sugar, and salt. Add melted butter and mix until crumbly. Divide into eight parts and pack each part firmly into bottom and sides of nine-inch pie plate. Place an eight-inch plate on top of each to hold crumbs in place. Bake at 375° until brown, about fifteen minutes. Remove small plates several minutes after taking from oven. Cool and use for chiffon, custard, or cream fillings. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. SURPRISE FUDGE CAKE 434 c. Sugar 9 c. Sifted flour 3 c. Shortening 114 tbsp. Baking soda 114 tbsp. Vanilla 114 tbsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Salt. 1 qt. Water 134 c. Cocoa 2 c. Sauerkraut 11 whole eggs Cream sugar and shortening on medium speed 10 minutes until creamy. Add vanilla, salt, and cocoa, continue beating for five minutes on high speed. Add eggs, blend on high speed until light and fluffy. Sift flour, baking powder, and soda together, and add alternately with water using low speed. Wash and chop kraut coarsely. Drain well and mix into batter thoroughly. Bake in greased floured sheet pan at 375° for forty-five minutes. Cool and frost. Yield: 40 to 45 servings. CAKE ROLL 3 c. Pancake mix (buttermilk) 3 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt _ 1 tbsp. Vanilla 12 eggs Grease sides and bottoms of two pans 22'' by 14" by 1"; line with wax paper, grease again, and dust with flour. Put eggs and salt in mixing bowl and beat about 45 seconds on high speed. Add sugar gradually, beating at medium speed until fluffy. Add vanilla and pancake mix and beat about 20 seconds at low speed. Spread evenly in pans and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 400°. Sprinkle two large towels with powdered sugar, while cakes are baking. Loosen cakes around the edge of pans, turn onto towels. Peel paper from cakes. Roll in towels and let stand ten minutes. Unroll and spread with one of fillings, roll up, and refrigerate several hours before serving. Yield: 48 servings. PINEAPPLE WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 1/3 c. Cold water. 3 c. Heavy cream, whipped. 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 14, c. Powdered sugar 3 c. Drained crushed pineapple Soften gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Fold into whipped cream with sugar and pineapple. Spread on cake, reroll and refrigerate. FRUIT WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 3 c. Sifted powdered sugar 1 qt. Heavy cream, whipped 6 c. Fresh or frozen drained fruit, 1/3 c. Cold water blueberries, strawberries, or peaches Soften gelatih in cold water and set in pan of hot water to dissolve. Cool slightly. Fold into whipped cream. Add powdered sugar. Spread on cake, and spread fruit over cream. Reroll. 116 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS DEEP-DISH CHERRY PUDDING 31%4 qts. Sugar 1 tbsp. Mace 6 qts. Red cherries, pitted 114 c. Cornstarch 5 c. Sugar 2 c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt 8 eggs 214 qts. Pancake mix 1 gt. Milk Drain cherries. Bring juice to boil. Combine sugar, salt, and cornstarch with some of the cold juice and stir into hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Add cherries and bring to boil. Put two quarts cherries into each of three pans (16"' by 10" by 2''). Combine dry ingredients for batter into mixer bowl. Add shortening, milk, and eggs. Beat 30 seconds at low speed. Scrape bottom of bowl. Increase speed to medium and beat thirty seconds longer. Spread one-third batter on each pan evenly. Bake at 350° forty-five to fifty minutes. Serve warm with cream or ice cream. Yield: 50 servings. GOLDEN PUNCH 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen orange juice concentrated 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen lemon juice concentrated 2 cans (12 oz. Size) apricot nectar 2 cans pineapple juice 26 oz. Bottle sparkling water Add water to concentrate according to directions. Combine with juice and sparkling water. Add ice. Yield: about 7 quarts. NOTE: Orange and lemon powdered drink mixes used according to directions may be used as a substitute for concentrates. BUTTER CRANBERRY PUNCH 114 c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 12 c. Water 34, tsp. Salt 6 c. Jellied cranberry sauce 34, tsp. Nutmeg 3 qts. Pineapple juice ll4 tsp. Cinnamon Butter 114 tsp. Allspice Whole cinnamon sticks (optional) 214 tsp. Ground clove Butter, as desired Mix sugar and spices with three cups water and bring to boil. In a large pan crush cranberry sauce, add rest of water, and beat until smooth. Add pineapple juice and spiced syrup. Simmer about four minutes. Serve hot, with butter and cinnamon sticks for stirrers if desired. Yield: 50 servings. PARTY PUNCH 4 c. Sugar 214 c. Orange juice 2 c. Water 5 c. Pineapple juice 2 c. Lemon juice 12 oz. Maraschino cherries and juice 2 qts. Dry ginger ale Boil sugar and two cups water for ten minutes. Add lemon, orange, and pineapple juice. Chill for several hours. Add cherries, water, and ginger ale. Pour over ice or for special occasions add three quarts of ice cream to punch bowl. Yield: 60 servings. LUAU PUNCH 2 cans passion fruit juice 1 can pineapple juice 1 can grapefruit juice 2 c. Lemon juice 4 (26 oz.) sparkling water Pour over ice in punch bowl. Yield: 40 large servings - 80 small servings.