[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 107 | Fiction | A Valentine for Mother Kathryn | E. Franks]
Valentine for Mother Kathryn E. Franks m™ I must have been nine or ten, and I remember a_ February storm had just left the world outside snowy white. On the trees and fences the snow had drifted in unusual designs. In my own small bedroom the radiator hissed out in jerky sputters. I was hiding in my bedroom working on a fancy valentine for my mother. I had heavy red paper, real lace, white paper doilies, red ribbon, and a wonderful idea for mother's valentine. I was the eldest, and it was important to me that mine would be the prettiest one my mother would receive. The red heart was cut and the white lace nearly around the edge when my little sister Sara, who was four, came skipping into my room. She was trying to cut valentines from a make-it-yourself book. "Oooh," Sara exclaimed when she saw what I was doing. "That is going to be beautiful! May I have some of your lace? I'm making a valentine for mother, too." "No," I answered. "I'm busy. Don't bother me." Sara looked disappointed. She stepped back. Without saying anything, she left the room. After all, I remember thinking, if I give her all my ideas, her valentine will be as nice as mine. Another few inches of lace were pasted around the heart when my younger brother, Billy, came bursting into my room. He had come home from school. 'Look, Sis," he said eagerly, "we're making these valentine nut cups for our mothers. I goofed. Mine are all messed up. Will you help me fix them?" I knew then that if they were finished correctly they would be darling. They would make my valentine look pretty simple! 


 "No," I scolded, tossing the cups at him. "I'm not going to have time to finish my own." "All right," Billy said. "'I'll take some of this lace and fix them myself." I snatched away the lace and pushed him from the room. I was surprised when I saw mother nearby, putting away clothes in the hall closet. I was sure she hadn't seen inside, but I was certain she overheard all the nasty things I'd said. Her face looked sad. At bedtime I carefully placed all the trimmings with the partly made valentine in a big box, ready for school the next day. Mrs. Rodgers, our teacher, had promised us that we could work on our valentines the next afternoon during our art period. I remember how excited I was when it was time to clear our desks and start to work. I wanted to finish the outside of mine, so I could start thinking of a special verse. It had to be ready for the next morning, Valentine's Day. As Miss Rodgers handed out the red paper and the trimmings, the children crowded around my desk. "Look!" they exclaimed. "It's going to look just like a store valentine." Miss Rodgers stopped to admire it. She complimented me on my idea. I was certain then... This was going to be the nicest valentine my mother had ever received. The children were asked to take their seats quickly. Miss Rodgers stood in front of the class and began her cutting instructions. First, we were to fold the red sheet and cut the heart. "You know," she told us children, "it doesn't matter how you plan your design, or if there is 108 any design on the front at all. It's the message inside _ that counts. The words 'I love you' are what matters, really. Your mother knows by your actions how much you love her." Miss Rodgers said other things about the real meaning of Valentine's Day, but I couldn't watch her any longer, or listen to what she was saying. I think I gazed down a long time at my valentine. I fingered it slightly. I was looking at the valentine, but as a child, I was seeing myself quite clearly. I'd forgotten, I guess, what I was going to write inside. My valentine didn't look pretty to me anymore. I placed it back in the box. I decided to work on it after school. I was no longer in the mood. There were some things I wanted to do before I finished my mother's valentine. I hurried home after school. I found Sara and asked her into my room. I took her wrinkled book and showed her how to cut the hearts out straight. I tried to be patient while her small hands cut crookedly. Mother knocked on my door to inform me my friend was there to play. I told her I'd be out later, after I finished helping Sara. When Billy came home I sent him to wash his hands so we could work on his nut cups. I showed him how to paste the small red paper hearts on the outside and trim the tops with lace. "As soon as we finish," I told Billy, "we'll take our allowance and you can bike to the store for some tiny red hearts and some _ assorted nuts. We'll fill them and have the cups ready for tomorrow." Billy was delighted with the idea. It felt good to be the eldest. \ "They look swell, Sis. Thanks for helping me." Then he scooted out of the room with the money to go to the store. That evening I put Sara to bed and read her a story. I dried the dishes before going to my room to begin my school work. First, I tried to think of a good verse for mother's valentine, but I was too sleepy. I couldn't think. I remember how confidently I put it aside until the next morning. I turned out the lights and slipped under the covers. I overslept the next morning. When I woke up I heard Billy and Sara in the hallway already giving mother their valentines. I can feel it now, how near tears I was. Hastily I pulled out A VALENTINE FOR MOTHER the fancy, unfinished valentine from the box. I scrambled for the paste and lace... A verse. There wasn't time. I had to dress or I'd miss the school bus. All I could do was open the valentine and write in my best handwriting, "I love you, Mother," and sign my name. Funny thing about mothers... There was a proud smile on her face when I handed it to her, like a secret message between us. I think she loved that valentine more than any I ever made, or any I ever bought her afterwards. How am I sure? Perhaps I wasn't, not until I became a mother and today I received my first, one such valentine!