[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 143 | Lesson | Work Meeting • Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation) Hazel | S. Cannon]
WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness; (A Continuation) For Second Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To discuss and demonstrate various cleaning techniques and procedures and to show the value of efficient cleaning INTRODUCTION A clean orderly home lifts the heart and spirit. The scriptures speak of a house which is "swept and garnished," and Oliver Goldsmith, English poet, writes fondly of "his lov'd partner" and the "cleanly board." Latter-day Saint women have long been known for their thrift and industry in caring for their homes. "It will last longer if it's clean," echoes their feelings as they strive to protect and beautify the home and its furnishings. Decisions pertaining to cleaning equipment and supplies and specific cleaning _ must be made constanty. DOES EASY DO IT? The housewife is often confronted with an amazing and confusing array of cleaning equipment and supplies. These aids may be helpful, but sometimes they represent a poor investment, and over a period of equipment and supplies. Time do not prove to be the easiest and most efficient, after all. Most home equipment specialists agree that other than a good vacuum cleaner, equipped with attachments for dusting and dry soil removal and "getting into" difficult spots, cleaning equipment and supplies should represent a nominal investment. To Discuss: 1. What questions might you ask yourself to determine whether purchase: of new cleaning equipment and supplies is justifiable? Note to leaders: Try to elicit the following question responses from the class—How often will I use it? Can I use it for more than one cleaning job? Will it save more time than another article which I already own? Will it be easy to use or operate, to carry, and to store? Will it eliminate heavy work such as stooping, bending, lifting, and stretching? In terms of the saving of time and effort is the cost reasonable? 2. How would you advise a young couple relative to the cleaning equipment and supplies which they should buy in setting up housekeeping in a 


 small 'apartment in your locality? These might be listed quickly on the chalkboard under "Item" and "Why Chosen." It might be pointed out by the leader that rebuilt vacuum cleaners, if purchased from a reputable dealer, are much less expensive than new ones and are quite satisfactory. (A re-built machine is constructed of good used parts.) TRICKS OF THE TRADE 1. Are you a water enthusiast? Too much water, used time after time, for washing floors can be damaging to wood and other substances. 2. Use abrasive scouring pads sparingly and only when absolutely necessary on surfaces and floors, as they tend to destroy finishes. 3. A snowy bright dishcloth (in most cases it is a cloth, not a rag) can give you a lift as you work about the kitchen. If your dishcloth gets dingy between washings, soak it in a small amount of water to which a little chlorine bleach has been added (according to directions). The sink is ideal for this; both cloth and sink will be brightened. Rinse well. 4. A heavy coat of furniture wax (it is actually composed of several thin layers) will prove to be tender, loving care for furniture surfaces. It will help the wood resist spots, stains, and scratches. Tables of: all kinds, especially those used for dining, are protected in this manner. A little additional wax and "elbow grease" will remove old layers of wax. Always polish funiture with the grain of the wood. There are a few new wood finishes, however, which should not be waxed. Your furniture dealer will direct you. 5. Add two or three tablespoons of vinegar to a bucket of water in cleaning windows. It will clean efficiently and make them shine. Use this same solution on linoleum floors between soap washings. It will keep wax removal to a minimum. Many housewives like to polish windows with crumpled newspaper, or a chamois may be used for the complete operation, rather than a cloth. 6. Remove scratches from dark furniture by dyeing with iodine or a commercial preparation. For lighter woods apply the cut surface of a wal- 144 nut or a Brazil nut, or use a commercial scratch remover "stick." Mineral oil will help to conceal scratches on natural woods. 7. A mild, simple cleaning agent for general cleaning consists of soap jelly made by dissolving one cup of mild soap flakes, soap shavings, or detergent in one quart of boiling water. Pour into a wide-mouthed container and when congealed, use for various cleaning needs. Many modern women still prefer using their own homemade soap for both cleaning and laundry purposes. 8. A very effective cleaning solution for medium and dark colored natural wood finishes is one quart of hot water, three tablespoons of boiled linseed oil (available at paint and hardware stores), and one tablespoon of turpentine. Apply sparingly with a cloth, keeping moisture away from glued joints, until soil is removed. Polish with a clean, dry, soft cloth. 9. To remove grease spots from wallpaper use dry cleaning fluid sparingly (use the non-flammable cleaner.) If spots do not respond, apply French chalk or dry magnesia (available at drug stores) mixed with the dry cleaning fluid. Use a minimum of the fluid, keeping mixture just moist enough to adhere to the wall. Allow to dry and brush off. More than one application may be necessary. Experiment in an inconspicuous place first to see if paper will spot from the cleaning fluid. This method is usually very effective. 10. Sponges have many uses in cleaning. They are easy to handle, leave no lint, and can be squeezed dry with one hand. The newer cellulose sponges are less expensive than the natural ones. 11. Commercially treated cloths for quick touch-up metal polishing are great time savers. 12. One-half cup of ground glue added to a gallon of hot water will clean lightly soiled natural finished woodwork without harming the finish. It is especially fine for knotty pine and other natural finishes. The solution comes off with the next washing. To Discuss: Case Study: Mr. And Mrs. Allen are a retired couple. Their average- sized home is the happy gathering place for their married children and grandchildren, and bears the stamp of being truly "lived in." How would you solve Mrs. Allen's cleaning problems, giving the cleaning product to be used, the equipment, if any, and the method: 1. Several small food and grease spots on the off-white, plain textured wallpaper in the living room (may have been soiled at a recent family buffet supper). The paper bears the label 'washable,' which means very limited use of moisture. 2. All-over soil on the floral patterned, cotton tapestry-covered lounge chair in living room. 3. Scratches and some removal of finish from legs and rungs of dining chairs. 4. Black marks from shoes on the asphalt tile in the combination dining and family room. 5. An accumulation of hard water marks on the outside of the kitchen bay window, caused by the spray from the garden hose. SUMMARY Homemaking and _ housekeeping constitute the biggest business in the world today. Try the new, but hold fast to the old if it serves your purpose. Find the very best way of cleaning everything in your home. When you LESSON DEPARTMENT have problems, consult those people whose specialty it is to help you—the home economics departments of your local high school or university, government bulletins, dealers in home furnishings, the press, and, of course, the many delightful books and homemaking magazines. Housekeeping is truly everybody's business. To Do and Think About: 1. As part of the activities for the work meeting, a committee might demonstrate all or part of the following: (It might be well to use both commercial and homemade cleaning products) A. Cleaning and _ polishing of various metals such as aluminum, silver, brass, copper, etc. B. Shampooing of a small throw rug—it might be well to show a rug which has previously been shampooed by the same method and is now dry. C. Cleaning, removal of scratches, and polishing of a piece of furniture in Relief Society room, or a small piece of furniture brought from home. Two or more furniture finishes and/or colors in furniture might be used. D. The cleaning of any other items which it is felt would be beneficial to the class.