NEWS P. C. W. P. A.

	Mrs Maggie Downing Brainard of the
“Santa Clara Valley” is writing a profusely
illustrated article on the possibilities of
horticulture on the Coast setting forth its
advantages as a profession for women.
	The official seal of the W. P. A. will be a
fac-simile of the badge; a five-pointed star,
bearing the initial of the association and date
of inauguration.
	Mr. Geo. T. Gaden to whom the members
of the W. P. A. are truly indebted for
thorough acts of kindness and who was elected
an honorary member of the association, has
presented a beautiful gold badge (suitably
inscribed) to Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst upon
her retirement from the office of Cor. Sec’y.
of the W. P. A.
	The W. P. A. will make every effort to
entertain in as pleasant a manner as possible
the National Editors Ass’n and in doing thus
will not hold a March Convention.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Vore’s finely illustrated
article on Our Press Ass’n evoked most
praiseworthy comment. The article appeared
in the St. Louis Chaperone.
	Mrs. Lindon Bates of Portland, Oregon was
tendered on March first a handsome Reception
by the Illinois Woman’s Press Ass’n. This
as a compliment to the manner in which their
delegates were entertained at their recent
convention held in San Francisco. The
Reception was held at the Palmer House in
Chicago over 1200 invitations being sent out.
	Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst has accepted a
position on the staff of the National Journal
of Chicago and will henceforth represent
business interests on this Coast not conflicting
with the Californian.
	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, Mrs. E. O. Smith,
Mrs. Anna Morrison Read, Miss Mary
Lambert, Miss E. D. Keith and Mrs. L. M.
McCann have been appointed on the board of
Lady Managers for the World’s Fair in San
Francisco and Mrs Isabella Raymond and
Mrs. M. O. Stanton on the Santa Cruz Board.


Solid love, whose root is virtue, can no more
die than virtue itself.—Erasmus.
         
	He who holds back rising anger like a
rolling chariot, him I call a real driver; other
people are but holding the reins—Hindu.
    
	Give not thy tongue too great liberty, lest it
take thee prisoner. A word unspoken is, like
the sword in the scabbard, thine. If vented
thy sword is in another’s hand.


