SENTIMENTS.
E. B. Wells.
Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
	The Relief Society celebrate to-day a
Jubilee that reaches around the world. Never
before that there is any record of has a
woman's Jubilee spread over such an extent
of country. Throughout all the wards and
settlements, in all the Stakes of Zion is this
momentous event being commemorated by 
meeting and rejoicing together in praise and
thanksgiving to God. And not only here but
in other parts of the United States, North and
South, in Canada and Mexico, on the Sandwich
and Samoan Islands and New Zealand, in
Great Britain, in Holland and the countries of
Scandinavia, in Switzerland and Germany,
in Asia Minor, Australia and Tasmania.
What does this woman's Jubilee signify? not
only that fifty years ago this organization was
founded by a Prophet of God, but that woman
is becoming emancipated from error and
superstition and darkness. That light has
come into the world, and the Gospel has made
her free, that the key of knowledge has been
turned, and she has drank inspiration at the
divine fountain.

[Column 2]

All  humanity proclaims this the woman's
era. Everything important tends to emphasize
the fact; the spirit of woman's future destiny
rests upon the sisters, and they obey the
impulses of the times in which they live! the
voice of the hour! the fulfillment of prophecy!
They repeat the hallelujah of woman's
redemption; that has been echoed down
the ages. The women of Zion in every
land lift up their voices to-day in glad
Hosannas for the deliverance that has been
wrought out for them, and the blessings that
have come through this great and grand
organization established fifty years ago, and
by means of which so much good has been
accomplished, not  only in works of charity
and blessing, but in the development of the
higher attributes of the human soul, that tend
to purify, exalt and uplift the world. And
while we celebrate this day of days let us
cherish in sacred remembrance the memory of
those who are not with us, but have gone on
before; and especially should we all remember
the three noble pioneer women, who im-
mortalized their names, and reflected honor
upon all their sex, by their undaunted courage
in traversing the unknown desert plains with
the first pioneers to this valley. Let the
names of Clara Decker Young, Ellen Sanders
Kimball, and Harriet Page Young be handed
down to posterity, as the foremost Pilgrim
mothers in pioneering Westward of the Rocky
Mountains, and remember it was their fidelity
to the truth, that gave them the faith and forti-
tude to endure. And after to-day what new
awakening shall come to us who are still in the
field of woman's work? The refreshing remi-
niscences and rememberances of the past should
inspire us with renewed zeal and courage for
the future; and with a more divine consecration
of our labors to the help of all humanity.
	The choir then rendered in full voice and
strength the celebrated English anthem
"Daughter of Zion Awake from thy Sadness."
	This grand anniversary Jubilee exercises
were closed with a solemn benediction of
thanksgiving to God by Apostle John Henry
Smith.


