EXERCISES AT THE TABERNACLE.

	The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society March
17, 1842, was held in the Large Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City March 17, 1892, and was largely at-
tended by those resident in the City, many
strangers and tourists were also present. The
stands were handsomely ornamented with flower-
ing plants principally Calla and Easter lilies. The
large organ was draped with the stars and stripes,
the flags extending across and a large oil painting
of Joseph the prophet hung high in the centre;
below it an immense key made of the most beau-
tiful flowers, underneath which was the picture
life-size of Emma Smith the first President of the
Relief Society and on her right a picture of Eliza
R. Snow the second President, and on her left
that of Zina D. H. Young the present President.
	Prof. Evan Stephens Musical Director had
charge of the Tabernacle Choir, who furnished
the singing and Prof. J. J. Daynes accompanied
on the organ, the music was specially fine. On
the stand was Pres. Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency, Apostles John Henry Smith and
Abraham H. Cannon, President Angus M. Can-
non, Dr. James E. Talmage, and of the officers of
the Central Board of the Relief Society, Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young; Counselor Bathsheba
W.  Smith; Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary;
Romania B. Pratt, Ass't. Secretary; M. Isabella
Horne, Treasurer; E. B. Wells Cor. Sec'y.—also
Zina Y. W. Card.
	The exercises of this happy occasion opened
with the choir singing that Grand Invocation by
Eliza R. Snow,

	"O, my Father thou hast dwellest."

	Prayer was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon. The choir and congregation joined in
singing the hymn,

	"How firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord."

[Column 1]

	A most feeling and eloquent address of greeting
and welcome was then delivered by,
		PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	My brethren and sisters and friends, I ask an
interest in your faith and prayers on this great oc-
casion, so that the spirit of the living God may
direct the few words I may utter. I now in the
presence of God and before my brethren and
sisters, hail this welcome day of Jubilee which
has been set apart for us—the sisters of the
Relief Society to assemble together. O, that my
words could be heard by all people, not only by
you my brethren and sisters in this Tabernacle
and throughout Utah but that they might be
heard and understood by all the people of this
continent, and not only this continent but the
continents of Europe, Asia, Africa and the
Islands of the Sea.
	This day we greet you and all our sisters who
are everywhere celebrating this occasion in com-
memoration of the organization, by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, of the Relief Society.
	We praise God that our ears have been saluted
with the glad tidings of salvation again restored
to the earth, through the instrumentality of the
Prophet Joseph. We rejoice in the principles of
the Gospel revealed from heaven in this age; that
the Father and the Son condescended to appear to
Joseph, in answer to his fervent prayer for light
and knowledge, and that our Heavenly Father
pointed to His Son and said "hear ye Him."
These things cause us to lift up our hearts to God
with thanksgiving and blessing. This is a glori-
ous day in which we live. It is the dispensation
of the fulness of times when all things spoken by
all the holy prophets will be fulfilled. This is a
a great day for the sisters of the Relief Society.
The daughters of Zion have met here this day, as
also wherever they are organized, to celebrate
this day, the fiftieth anniversary of our organiza-
tion and to lift our hearts in praise to God. We
rejoice at having some of our leading brethren
with us today. We anticipate having a good time.
The peaceful influence of the spirit of the Lord
is with us; it is full of life and joy.
	A word as to the duties and labors of the mem-
bers of these organizations, of the Relief Society
is appropriate at this time; as sisters of this or-
ganization we have been set apart for the purpose
of comforting and consoling the sick and afflicted
the poor and distressed, particularly those who
love and fear God; to comfort one another in
every trial of life, and cheer the depressed in
spirit, on all occasions; this is our special mis-
sion, therefore keep this in remembrance. If we
continue to do these things in the spirit thereof,
the Lord, at the time when He comes to make up
His jewels, will approve of us.
	My sisters everywhere who have humbly em-
braced the Gospel and are true to it are my
sisters. I greet them as such. I pray God to
pour out His spirit upon all of you today, and
from this time forth. This is a day never to be
forgotten because of the goodness of God to us. I
hope the Presidents and members of every Relief
Society on earth will have such a good time today
as will never be forgotten by them. This is my
prayer and desire in their behalf. As sisters we
have to work out and secure our salvation. Let
us honor the Lord for permitting us to live in this
dispensation, also honor Him for the glorious
principles of truth, light and life which He has
revealed to us through His inspired servants.
	We pray and ask our Heavenly Father to bless
these our sisters, that they may continue to visit
the poor and the needy and see that none suffer
among us. I trust our object will be to improve
in good works, that the sisters, in addition to
what they have already done, will build houses
wherein they can hold their Relief Society meet-
ings and worship the Lord. I hope that the
sisters, through the blessings of God will be en-
abled to do this; that they will continue to sus-

[Column 3]

tain the hands of their Bishops, and work
unitedly; that they will not neglect their families,
nor idle their time away, but look after their home
affairs as well as attend to the duties I have named
Let us help our Presidents and each other and
stand shoulder to shoulder.
	We are blessed with glorious privileges, and
have been. The franchise so gloriously given us,
and enjoyed so long, has been taken from us with-
out cause. It may be restored to us again; let us
hope for this. Let us be pure and upright in our
lives and do good continually; be true and humble
all our days; may we be guided by the spirit of
the Lord day by day. Sisters let us bring up our
children in the fear of God. Ask Him to give
you a portion of His holy spirit to guide you in
all things. Do not neglect these matters sisters.
See that you perform your duties humbly and
faithfully every one of you. If there is one
mother present here who does not teach and in-
struct her children properly, in such a way as the
Lord approves of, I plead with you to do so. Call
your children around you in the absence of the
father, and pray with them. Teach them how to
pray and the proper manner in which they should
do so, that your prayers and theirs may be heard
and answered with blessings upon your heads.
Warn the children of the evils that surround us.
Lift up your warning voice against temptations
now so prevalent in our midst that they may not
become a prey to these evils, but grow up in holi-
ness and in purity before the Lord.
	Encourage home productions of every kind.
Support our paper the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by
subscribing for it. This paper should be in the
family of every Latter-day Saint.
	Above all things may we so live as to have the
spirit of the Lord dwelling in us continually.
Let me say to you sisters be true helpmeets to
your husbands. Be one with them in all things
in righteousness. Let your desires be to make
home what it should be.
	When Joseph received his first vision he was
told that his name would be spoken of for good 
or for evil by all men; from that day to the pres-
ent time, this has been verified. We this day
with the saints of God everywhere, honor the
name because of his inegrity to God and the
principles of light and truth which he was the in-
strument of restoring to the earth for our salva-
tion, and that of the whole human family if they
will but accept of the glad message.
	May God grant that we may stand firm and
faithful to the truth, walking in humility and
purity before Him; may His blessing attend this
people throughout the world on this great and
grand occasion, and henceforth. You mothers
and daughters of Israel we greet you and ask
the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon you
and upon all His people on earth. These are the
desires of my heart and may God grant them is
my prayer for Jesus sake. Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card next read in a very clear
and distinct voice the Revelation given to Emma
Smith, through Joseph the Seer in Harmony,
Penn., July 1830, and published in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, wherein Sister Emma is
called an Elect Lady.
		APOSTLE ABRAHAM H. CANNON.
	I feel pleased, my brethren and sisters, at hav-
ing this opportunity of assembling with so worthy
an association as the Relief Society. It must be a
source of pleasure to our sisters to look back up-
on the work which has been accomplished since
the organization, by the Prophet Joseph, of this
Society, and it must fill the hearts of many Latter-
day Saints with joy and gratitude to think of the
stupendous work which the sisters, connected 
with these Associations, have done. The great
help they have been to the Church of Jesus Christ
we poor mortals cannot conceive. But we do
know of much that they have ccomplished in


[Column 1]

their mission. We know of many homes to which
they have carried comfort and blessing of various
kinds; in which they have provided food for the
hungry and clothed the naked, and have ad-
ministered relief to those who were sick and
afflicted, God has been with these sisters in their
ministrations. By the power of faith and detection
which has attended them,a great many marvelous
cures have been effected among the people
through their prayers and good works. It has
been a testimony to those who have witnessed
these things that the power of God is in the
Church, and is bestowed upon all those who seek
Him in faith and in humility.
	The work which has already been done by the
sisters and the great good accomplished will be al-
most forgotten in the magnitude of that which the
future will develop, for as the Church shall grow
and as the honest in heart from the nations of the
earth shall be gathered, the field for the exercise
of the talents of our sisters will be greatly en-
larged, far beyond that of which we can now form
a conception, God will put it into the hearts of
those who stand at the head of this institution to
organize reforms and adopt such measures as
shall be of greater benefit to our sisters and to
the brethren than in the past. Their hearts and
sympathies will become greater in the work of
God.
	Now, it seems to me, from the opportunities
offered our sisters, even in this day they can use
an influence and exercise their talents for great
good among this people.
	We speak of charity, of relief which should be
given the poor, but it is mistaken charity to give
to those who are able to earn their own living.
Such charity means the encouragement of idle-
ness among this people, who ought to be a nation
of workers, and become proficient and industrious
in the various occupations of life. Not only young
women, young men and middle aged men, but
our older sisters also should have some object in
life and work for its accomplishment. They
should not alone be taught to use their brains but
also their hands for the accumulation of the materi-
al things of life which are essential to our welfare.
	I remember when upon my mission to Germany
of visiting some of the Industrial Schools which
are there established for girls and young women.
They were taught therein the art of cooking and
other household duties. They received instruc-
tions in these things, and were made to under-
stand, to a certain extent at least, the duties
which would devolve upon them when they be-
came wives and mothers. In these schools they
were also taught to sew and to do all kinds of
fancy work to which women's hands should be
accustomed. Other institutions are in existence
for the good and benefit of the young. It is con-
sidered a disgrace by the people there for a young
woman to grow up in ingnorance of the things per-
taining to her life here upon the earth. But how
is it with us? Among us today we find there are
many growing up with an idea that it is a disgrace
to work. Some of our girls seem to think they
are gaining great advantages in acquiring the ac-
complishments which are to be had at schools or
at home as the case may be, where they receive
knowledge of these things, but they forget the
duties which will hereafter devolve upon them as
wives and mothers in Israel. All such are illy
preparing themselves for the great responsibilities
which the near future will devolve upon them.
	In my estimation it is the duty of our sisters,
who have had long experience to impress our
daughters with the necessity of acquiring those
things which will be a lasting benefit to them.
Teach them the use of their hands, in economy,
in the management ol those things intrusted to
their care, so that when they become wives they
may not be such as will cause disunion in the
household, neither cause a feeling of disappoint-
ment in the hearts of their husbands, but rather

[Column 2]

be fully capable of performing the duties of wives
and mothers, and feel that they have something
to live for in this life.
	Here is a field, unlimited, for the exercise of
the talent of our Relief Society as well as our
Church schools. They should draw into their
Associations every young woman they can find
and teach them to love their fellow creatures here
upon earth and administer to their wants. The
sisters are capable of entering into the feelings of
their sex; of sympathizing with them in their dis-
tress, and of providing for them the proper
necessities in time of need. They should feel
that they have a mission upon earth other than
that of appearing well in society and of shining
brilliantly, because some others do this.
	Brethren and sisters I feel that God is with our
sisters in their labors in these societies, I also
feel in my heart to ask Him to bless and prosper
them, and assist them to do their part in carrying
forward His great work in these latter days.
Amen.
	An historical sketch prepared by Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, taken from the record
of the Relief Society was read by Dr. James E.
Talmage. The Tabernacle being such a very
large building it was thought wise that the read-
ing of written articles should be by young men
who could be heard in all parts of the house, al
though the sketches and addresses were written
by the ladies themselves.
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief Society,
and instructions given by President Joseph
Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the Church, a
number of sisters convened in the Masonic Lodge
room, on the 17th of March 1842, President
Joseph Smith, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards were present.
	President Smith stated that the meeting was
called for the purpose of making more complete
the organization of the Church, by organizing the
women in the order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair and Willard
Richards acted as secretary. After singing and
prayer, a vote was taken to know if all were satis-
fied with each sister present, and willing to ac-
knowledge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the names
of those present were taken as follows:—
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. Cowles,
Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes,
Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia Robinson,
Philinda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R.
Marks.
	Pres. Smith then explained some of the duties
that would devolve on members of the Society,
said they could provoke the brethren to good
works, look after the needs of the poor, and per-
form charitable acts. Women must assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the virtues
of the community. Said it is now in order for
the sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two counselors to
assist in the duties of her office. He would ordain
them, and let them preside just as the Presidency
presided over the Church, and if they needed his
instruction they could ask and he would be
pleased to give it from time to time, Let the
Presidency serve as a constitution and their decis-
ions become precedents for you act upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the designs
of the institution, let them be appointed and set
apart, as Teachers, Deacons &c., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and Sophia
Packard seconded the motion, that Emma Smith
be elected President of the Society, the vote was

[Column 3]

put by the chairman and pronounced unanimous.
The President Elect, made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her
counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary and
Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secretary and Elvira
A. Cowles Treasurer.
	Pres. Joseph Smith read the Revelation to
Emma Smith from the book of Doctrine and 
Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at
the time the Revelation was given, to expound
the Scriptures, to teach &c.
	He then read Scriptures to show that an elect
lady is one elected to preside. By request of
President Joseph Smith, Apostle John Taylor or-
dained Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist President
Emma Smith in the duties of her office, and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her former
ordination and blessed her to be a mother in
Israel, a pattern of virtue and to possess all the
qualifications necessary to enable her to preside
with dignity and give such instruction, as may be
requisite in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Pres. Emma
Smith and counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the question,
What shall this Society be called?" Mrs. Cleveland
and Whitney advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevolent,
Emma Smith and E. R. Snow argued in favor of
Mrs. Cleveland's choice. The gentlemen with-
drew their objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously carried.
	Pres. Joseph then said "I now declare this
Society organized with President and counselors.
All who shall hereafter be admitted must be free
from censure and admitted by vote. Pres. Joseph
Smith laid down a five dollar gold-piece to com-
mence a Relief Society fund and said "What I do
hereafter for charity, I shall do through this
society." Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1 00, Emma Smith, $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts. Willard Richards, $1.00,
John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd, meeting of the Society, March 30th.
President Joseph Smith said, the members of the
Society must act in concert, or nothing can be ac-
complished. To move according to the ancient
Priesthood this must be a select Society, separate
from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting April 28th. Pres. Joseph Smith
said he was present to speak upon the Priesthood,
as his instructions were intended only for mem-
bers of the Society, he wished those not members
to withdraw. After which he called attention to
the 12th chapter of Corinthians, "Now concerning
Spiritual Gifts &c," said the passage which reads,
"No man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by
the Holy Ghost should be translated no man can
know &c., continued the reading of the chapter, 
and gave instructions respecting the different
offices and the necessity of every individual, act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her, and filling
the office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to consider
the lower offices in the Church dishonorable and 
to look with jealous eyes on the position of others;
said it was the nonsense of the human heart, to
aspire to positions not appointed of God, that it
was better for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God shall say
to them "Come up higher," said it was talked by
members of the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they had
common sympathy, they would rejoice that the
sick could be healed. The time has not been be-
fore when these things could be in their proper
order. The Church is not now organized in its
proper order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commission given


[Column 1]
﻿to the ancient Apostles, "Go ye into all the world
&c.," no matter who believes these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all theat believe, whether male or female.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick, let
them do so, and let the good work roll on.  It is
no sin for anybody to administer to the sick that
has faith, or if the sick have faith to be healed by
the administration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to find
fault, spoke at some length on the difficulties he
had had to surmount, ever since the organization
of the Church, on account of aspiring men, said
the same aspiring disposition will be in this
Society, and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would instruct
the Society how to act according to the will of God.
He did not know that he should have many op-
portunities of teaching them, they were going to
be left to themselves, they would not long have 
him to instruct them, the Church would not have
his instruction long and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, according to his
prayer God had appointed him elsewhere.  The 
congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with their
confidence, their faith, and their prayers, those
whom God had appointed to lead.  Said the keys
are about to be given to you that you may be able
to detect anything false, as readily as the Elders.
If members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the 
heads of the Church have induced them to bear
with those that were corrupt, in consequence of
which all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example provoke
the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of going too
fast, resist evil and there is no danger, neither
God, men, angels or devils can condemn those
that resist everything that is evil.  As well might
the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as that soul
that resists everything evil.  You are now placed
in a situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in your
bosoms.  If you live in accord with your privi-
leges angels cannot be restrained from being your
associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent can come
into the presence of God.  If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.  The
devil has great power, his ways are deceptive.
Do not be contentious, but let the weight of inno-
cence be felt, which is more mighty than a mill-
stone hung about the neck, meekness, love, purity
these are the things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the veil will
be rent and the blessings of heaven will flow
down.
	After this instruction you will be more re-
sponsible, it is an honor to save yourselves, all
are responsible for themselves.  Then read the
13th chapter of Cor., "Though I speak with the
tongue of men &c.." said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’ virtues,
do not think yourselves more righteous than
others.  You must enlarge your souls towards
others. If you would do like Jesus and carry you
fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom, He had
manifested long suffering and we must do the
same.
	Said “Though one have the spirit of prophecy
&c.," though one should become mighty and do
great things, overturn mountains, and then
turn to do that which is evil, all former deeds
would not save them, but they would go to de-
struction.  As you increase in innocence, virtue
and goodness, let your hearts expand, let them
be enlarged towards others, you must be long-
suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of
mankind.  How precious the souls of men!  The
Society is to get instruction through the order
which God has established, through the medium of

[Column 2]
those appointed to lead, and I now turn the key
to you in the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow
down from this time, this is the beginning of bet-
ter days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross word,
but let kindness, charity and love crown your
works.  Do not envy sinners, exercise mercy to-
wards them.
	Let your administrations be confined mostly 
to those around you.  As far as knowledge is con-
cerned, it may extend to all the world.  But your
administrations should be confined to the circle
of your acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society.  Those ordained to lead
the Society are authorized to appoint officers as 
the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your
own tongue do not indulge too much in the gift of
tongues, or the devil will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your comfort.
But I lay this down as a rule, that if anything is
taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be re-
ceived for doctrine.
	Pres. Smith then gave instruction respecting
women administering to the sick by the laying on
of hands, said it was according to revelation, he
never was placed in similar circumstances, and
never had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting, May 26th,
the Prophet read the 14th chapter Ezekiel, and
said the Lord had declared by that prophet that the
people should each one stand for themselves and
depend on no man or men; in the state of corrup-
tion in the Jewish Church, that righteous persons
could only deliver their own souls. Applied it to
the present condition of the Church of Latter-day
Saints.  If the people depart from the Lord, they
must fall, they were depending on the Prophet,
hence there was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the Society.
Be guarded in your speech, no organized body can
exist without giving heed to this caution.  All or-
ganized bodies have their peculiar evils, weak-
nesses and difficulties, the object is to make those
not so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to virtue 
and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never mention
it again, then you will be established in power,
virtue and holiness and the wrath of God will be
turned away.  God designs to save the people
out of their sins.  Jesus said "Ye shall do the
works which we see me do," these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.
	The tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop N.
K. Whitney, Pres. Joseph Smith being present.
	Eleventh meeting June 9th.  Pres.  J.  Smith,
"It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship,
if one member suffers all feel it, by union of feel-
ing we obtain power with God, Christ said he
can to call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners in to his society, he
took them upon the principle that they repent.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to
forsake sin, as to take them by the hand and
watch over them with tenderness.  The nearer
we get to our Heavenly Father, the more we are
disposed to look with compassion on perishing
souls.  I say to this society if you would have
God have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other.  How mild the Savior dealt with Peter
saying,- “When thou are converted, strengthen
thy brethren,” at another time he said to him,
“Lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” The Society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting held in the Grove August
31st, 1842.  After relating recent difficulties he
had encountered while being hunted by his
enemies, he said the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare, in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf.  These measures were

[Column 3]
necessary, and your influence helped to bring
about my redemption from the hands of my ene-
mies. I have come here to bless you.  The
Society has done well, their principles are to
practice holiness.  God loves you and your
prayers shall avail much do not cease to let them
ascend to God in my behalf.  The enemy will
never get weary.  I expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect a tremendous warfare.
He that will war the Christian warfare will have
the angels and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him dur-
ing his absence, respecting baptism for the dead
which he would communicate next Sabbeth i
nothing should occur to prevent it.  He then
offered a fervent prayer to God in behalf of the
Society.  After the transaction of some business
in the adjustment of which Pres.  Smith offered
counsel.  Said he had one more remark to make
respecting baptism for the dead, which must
suffice for the present and until he had the oppor-
tunity to present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must have a
recorder present, that he may be a eye-witness
to testify of it.  It will be necessary in the Great
Council that these things be testified of.  It
should be attended to from this time.  if there
is any lack it may be at the expense of our
friends.  This was the last R. S. meeting that
Pres. Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of Pres.
Emma Smith and her associates, visiting sisters
were appointed to search out the needy, to find
work for the able-bodied to receive contributions
and to report conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extended to the
four wards of the city.
	1275 names were enrolled as members.  The
recorded receipts were $415.24.
	An appropriate song composed expressly for
the Jubilee by Emily H.Woodmansee, was beau-
tifully rendered by the choir,
	"O blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer."
PRAYER OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH, DELIVERED AT
	HIGH NOON, MARCH 15, 1892.
[Preliminary Remarks]
	I am sorry to announce that in consequence of
President Woodruff having a severe cold, he did
not feel able to attend this meeting and therefore 
desires to be excused.  He also desires that
the people would remember him in their prayer;
	Agreeable to the with of the Presidency of the
Relief Society we will unite in prayer.  I hope
that all the people who are assembled here will
lift up their hearts unto God, according to their
desires, for blessings upon the Relief Society
throughout all the world, and upon the Church
and those who have been called to preside, and
to labor for the promulgation of the principles
of truth.  We will now unite in prayer.
	O God, the Eternal Father, in the name of 
Jesus Christ thy Son, and in humility before thee
we thy people have assembled here, on this in-
teresting occasion, we desire to lift up our hearts
in prayer and in supplication unto thee, and we de-
sire, Heavenly Father, to draw near unto thee, in
spirit and in truth, in humility and in faith, and
we pray that thou wilt hear and answer our
supplications.  We are grateful unto thee O God,
the Eternal Father, that we are permitted to cele-
brate the 50th anniversary of the establishment
upon earth of this organization, which is called
the Relief Society; and we humbly pray thee
that in our hearts this day, we may feel that
gratitude which is due to thee, that we have
been permitted to pass through a half century,
in comparative peace, that we have been pre-
served by thy powerful arm, from the hands of
wicked men, and from those  who have sought
our destruction and overthrow.  We thank thee


[Column 1]
﻿Heavenly Father that we are permitted to meet
unmolested from the powers of evil and from
mobs, and from such things as were experienced
in the early days of this Church. We thank
thee that thou hast planted us safely and firmly
in these fertile valleys, and that thou hast given
us the rich bounties of the earth, and the fatness
of the soil for our good, our comfort, our pros-
perity and our happiness. While we have been
surrounded by influences which were not calcu-
lated to lead our children in the paths of
righteousness and truth, Thou hast preserved
us from the designs of the destroyer, and from
the powers of darkness. Thou hast given 
unto us a degree of light which has made our
hearts to rejoice and helped us to serve thee. 
Thou hast given us those blessings we have asked
for in righteousness, and power to overcome
many of our weaknesses. Thou hast given us
a desire to establish righteousness in the midst
of the people. Thou hast given us a desire to
establish thy Church in the earth, and to seek
righteousness. We pray that these desires may
continue from this time onward. That we may
live with an eye single to thy glory and labor to
establish thy work on earth, and bring to pass
thy purposes. Wilt thou look down upon us with
much mercy. We invoke thy blessing at this time
upon the aged mothers of the Relief Society.
Many have passed away and those that remain
who witnessed the establishment of that society
by thy servant Joseph Smith, are few, aged, and 
feeble. Wilt thou continue thy mercies unto them
and preserve their lives. Let thy spirit fill their
hearts with joy and peace. Sanctify unto them every
dispensation of thy providence, cause that their
hearts may rejoice in thee and their faith be
strengthened in thy promises.  May thy word
never fail. We pray thee from this time forth
to preserve thy saints, and these aged mothers
until they are satisfied with life. Wilt thou bless
all those who are associated with them through-
out the length and breadth of the land. Bless the
Presidents,Counselors and members of the Relief
Society throughout the earth, in Zion and in
foreign lands, upon the islands of the sea,
and  wherever they are met together this
day to celebrate this 50th anniversary. Wilt
thou be with them by thy spirit to bless
them, to cause their hearts to rejoice before thee. 
We ask thee to bless the mothers of Israel,and to
bless their daughters and bless thy servants and
all thy people. We would remember thine
aged servant President Woodruff, who is bsent
from us on this occasion.  Wilt thou cause that
he may be restored to perfect health and strength.
Continue the vigor of all his faculties; strengthen
him in body and mind, and wilt thou make known
unto him thy mind and thy will that he may be thy
mouth-piece unto thy people and be a father in
very deed unto thy Saints; wilt thou bless also
with him his counselors and the quorum of the
twelve apostles. Cause that the Presidency of thy
Church and the twelve apostles shall be one in
heart, one in spirit, one in purpose, one in their
views for the building up of Zion and the bringing
to pass of thy purposes. May thy servants and
handmaidens be devoted to the establishment of
thy Church in righteousness upon the earth.
O God, bless thy people with those mercies that
they desire in righteousness. Sustain thy servants
and people and preserve them from difficulties and 
the evils that surround them. May thy spirit
direct them and thy power attend them in all they
do. May they dedicate their lives unto thee and
increase in knowledge.  Grant every desire
in righteousness unto thy people.  Heal the
sick, comfort those that mourn; look down in
much mercy upon thy people.  Have mercy upon
the erring ones, call them from the error of their
ways and bring them to a knowledge of thy truth
that they may devote their lives unto thee. Help
us to acknowledge thee in all things.  Unite thy

[Column 2]
people. Bless the elements that surround us; and
the soil, that it may be fertile. Bless thy people
in their incoming and out-going. Grant,O Heavenly
Father, that thy servants whom thou hast chosen
to direct thy work may continue steadfast and
faithful. Bless thou thy handmaidens who have
assembled to commemorate this anniversary.
May we understand thy will and keep thy com-
mandments. Bless all thy people and the honor-
able of the earth everywhere. Fill their hearts with
thy peace. Give unto us such things as we most
need for we desire only such things as shall bring
to pass thy purposes upon the earth.  We humbly
ask all these blessings in the name of Jesus
Christ.  Amen.
		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
   Following is a synopsis of his remarks:
	“This Relief Society, he said, has always had
the hearty endorsement and the approval of the
First Presidency since its first organization fifty 
years ago. It had occurred to the speaker that it
would be an excellent thing to erect a building or
buildings, as the case might be, where there could
be a hall for the Society to meet, and which
would be in a measure self-sustaining. He did
not know whether this matter had been con-
sidered yet.  It had already been stated that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had presented the Society
with a building lot, and he did not see why the
plan of building could not yet be carried out.  It
appeared to him to be an easy matter.
	“With regard to the gift of tongues,the speaker
said, it was one very much liable to mislead. The
adversary can easily take advantage of it.  How-
ever, where the Spirit of the Lord directs it, it is
a good thing.  Sometimes, however, persons
speak under the influence of a wrong spirit.
	“In relation to laying on of hands by sisters, the 
speaker said it is a proper thing for mothers, who
have received their blessings in the house of God
to pray for their sick and to rebuke diseases.  It
is just as much the right of the mother as of the
father, although he, holding the Priesthood, can
do it by virtue of this, as well as in the name of
the Lord. The women are not especially called
upon to visit from house to house to administer to
the sick, but they can do so properly, if called
upon.
	“The speaker was thankful for the opportunity
of meeting with the Saints, and wished that the
Lord might bless the work. He exhorted all to
live their religion and do their duties faithfully.
	AFTER THE DAYS OF NAUVOO.
			By E. B. Wells.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   When the Saints left Nauvoo and during
their journeyings, the Relief Society meetings
were necessarily discontinued, though the
sisters never lost sight of the institution, nor
the promises made to them by Pres. Jos.
Smith, but continued their benevolent work
wherever and whenever an opportunity
presented itself; they were always ready with
willing hands and tender sympathies to
perform deeds of love and charity, and many
were in need of such kindly acts for those were
the days of toil, and of suffering, of scarcity
and of hardship.
   Among the foremost heroines of that event-
ful time should be indelibly engraven the
names of Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, these Mothers
in Israel with kindly deeds and loving words,
inspired many a fainting heart with faith and
courage, and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings, to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with roses,
but were full of thorns and fiery trials.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
   Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary

[Column 3]
societies in several wards and surrounding
places, and though all were comparatively
poor, yet they helped those in greater need,
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians,
whom we have ever thus tried to conciliate.
In 1855 when in a more settled condition Pres.
Young called upon the Bishops to organize a
Relief Society in each ward, and gave Sister
Eliza R. Snow a mission to assist them in
organizing and to take with her Sister Zina D.
Young as her Counselor. Of some of these
branches we have no record, but Bishop
Abraham Hoagland of the 14th Ward in this
City, organized a Relief Society Sept. 14,
1856 and appointed Sister Phebe W. Wood-
ruff President; and she chose Sister M. I.
Horne,  and Southworth her Counselors. 
About that time Bishop N. V. Jones also
organized the 15th, ward and chose Sister
Lydia Granger President, the 9th ward was
organized with Sister Taft President etc.,
other wards followed—but Johnson’s army
coming here, and the move South, which
occurred in 1858—interrupted the regularity
of the work of the Society and it was not until
after the return of the people to their homes,
and when order was again restored that the
Sooiety was perfectly organized; to bring
about these organizations throughout the
several Stakes of Zion Sister Eliza R. Snow,
Sister Zina D. Young and other sisters
associated with them, traveled and labored
assiduously in all kinds of weather, and in all
sorts of conveyances to assist in making a
permanent success of this institution for the
women of Zion.
	One or two important events bearing upon
woman’s work transpired during these years
that should be mentioned in this connection. 
The enfranchisement of the women of Utah—
which occurred in February 1870—the bill
passed the Territorial Legislature and was
signed by acting Gov. Mann, on the 7th of
Feb. two days later the City election took
place and the first ballot cast by women here
was for Mayor of the City. In June 1872 a
Woman’s paper was issued for the first time
in the Rocky mountain region. the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
   In October 1876—Pres. Young called upon
the Sisters to store up grain against a day of 
famine, and in accordance with that call, fifty
thousand bushels of wheat have been deposited
in bins and granaries mostly owned by the 
Relief Society. Undoubtedly this is the first
instance in the annals of history of women 
laying up stores of wheat.
   To enumerate all that has been done by the
Relief Society would take up too much valuable
time; but the works have been those of love
and charity and performed in the spirit of
meekness and humility.
	CENTRAL ORGANIZATION IN UTAH.
			By Sarah M. Kimball.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   A called meeting for the election of the
Relief Society Officers was held in the
Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, June 19th,
 1880. Pres. John Taylor, Sec. John Nuttal.
and Stake Pres. Angus M. Cannon on the
stand. On motion Eliza R. Snow was elected
to preside over all the branches of the Relief
Society in Zion.  Zina D. Young and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney were elected
Counselors, Sarah M. Kimball Sec. and M.
Isabelle Horne Treas. (Sec. John Nuttal
by Pres. Taylor’s request read from the Book
of the Law of the Lord.)
   July 17th Pres. John Taylor met with the
Relief Society in the 14th Ward Hall, gave
instructions and ordained the President,
Counselors and Secretary to their various
positions.
	July, 24th, 1880, the Relief Society took an
active part in the grand celebration of Pion ee


[Column 1]

Day in the fiftieth year of the organization of
the Church. Representatives of the Society
occupied ten carriages, the first carriage carry-
ing an elegant white silk banner with appro-
priate inscriptions.
	Feb. 1880 the Relief Society Secretary was
notified that she was expected to furnish a
general semi-annual stastistical and financial
report of the Relief Society at the President's
Office ten days prior to the 6th of Apr. and
Oct. The first general report is dated March
15th, 1881. It cembined the reports of
sixteen stakes, and gave a membership of
12,288, disbursments for six months $3,468,31.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney Counselor to Eliza
R. Snow departed this life Feb. 15th, 1882
her honored name crowned with the blessing
of Saints.
	In June 1882 the Deseret Hospital was
established with Eliza R. Snow Pres. of the
board of directors. Sept. 1882 Romania B.
Pratt was appointed Assistant Secretary.
	Jan. 21st, 1884 a grand ovation was given
in the Social Hall, in honor of the eightieth
anniversary of the birth day of Eliza R.
Snow.
	Apr. 1885 Annual Conference held at
Logan Cache Co. Utah, Relief Society report
included twenty-two stakes. Total number
of members 16,358.
	Last general Relief Society report (Oct.
1887) during the administration of Eliza R.
Snow, members 17,002, branches 302 disburs-
ments to charity for 6 months $7,689,80.
	Sister Snow in company with her brother
Lorenzo Snow and others, made an extended
European tour in 1872 and 3 visited Jerusalem
and compiled her interesting book "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists." Her
Poems and other writings are much valued.
	She traveled extensively in the various
Stakes of Zion always in the capacity of an
instructor, was everywhere received as a
loving friend and a wise counselor. As an
organizer she was unexcelled. Our beloved
Sister and President closed her mortal eyes in
the Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec.
5th, 1887 aged eighty-three years. Her
comparatively long life was eventful beyond
that of most women. This Jubilee day
March 17th, 1892, the name of Eliza R.
Snow will be reverently spoken in various
Relief Society branches and in many lands.
	Apostle John Henry Smith then read the
paper of Mrs. B. W. Smith, and A. H. Cannon
read the article of Mrs. M. I. Horne, both of
which will be found in another part of the
paper.

