			HORNE.

	[Read by Apostle Abraham H. Cannon at
the Relief Society Jubilee in the Large Taber-
nacle, Salt Lake City, March 17, 1892.]

	My Brethren and Sisters:—My heart is
filled with praise and gratitude to my Heavenly
Father that he has spared my life to meet with
you on this important occasion, to celebrate by
a grand Jubilee all over the world, the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the organization of the Relief 
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times. I am
thankful that I had the privilege of being as-
sociated with the first organization, and of hear-
ing instructions from the President, Emma
Smith. She exhorted us to faithfulness in the
discharge of our duties, and especially to
humble ourselves and not ask God to humble
us, as He might do it in a way that would 
not be very pleasant to us. These remarks
made a lasting impression upon my mind.
	After the martyrdom of our beloved Prophet
and Patriarch, the Saints were permitted to


[Column 1]

remain in Nauvoo till the Temple was com-
pleted, and many of us received our endow-
ments in that House of the Lord. Soon after
this the people were driven from their homes in
the middle of winter during heavy snow
storms and severe frost. I with my family
crossed the Mississipi river in the month of
February, 1846, and camped with the Saints
on Sugar Creek. After that the river froze
over and other companies crossed on the ice.
Early in the Spring we commenced our weary
journey through mud and storm to find a home
among the savages in the Rocky Mountains.
When we arrived at Council Bluffs a call was
made upon Pres. Young by the Government
for five hundred of our able-bodied men to go
to the Mexican war, which prevented us from
continuing our journey and necessitated our
going into Winter Quarters, where we were
seriously afflicted with that dreadful disease—
scurvy. In June, 1847, the saints were or-
ganized into companies to follow the Pioneers,
and I was with the first company that left
Winter Quarters. The trials, hardships and
privations that the people of God endured on
that long and weary journey were great and
can only be understood by those who ex-
perienced them.
	Children were born on the way before we
reached Council Bluffs, myself giving birth to
a daughter at Pisgah, the company started
forward on the third day after.
	When our pilgrimage was over we found
ourselves in a barren waste, inhabited by
Indians. But we were glad to find a resting
place where we could worship God without
fearing our enemies were coming upon us. The
weather was favorable for building, and the
brethren immediately began to saw logs and
erect small log houses, into which many of us
moved without having either doors windows or
floors.
	Here again there were many difficulties to
overcome. The ground was full of snakes
which used to crawl around our houses, but
these were soon killed or frightened away. The
timber was so full of bugs that it was years be-
fore they were entirely subdued. The mice
also were very numerous, running over us by
day and by night, and destroying considerable
clothing, etc., which caused great incon-
venience and trouble. We were also obliged
to live on short rations, digging roots to add to
our store, in order to make our supplies last
until something could be raised for food.
During that winter many of the Mormon
Battalion arrived, and we were under the
necessity of sharing our food with them. We
could put a little grease into a dish with a rag
in it to make a light, and parch a little wheat
to make our coffee, but when it came to making
soap we were put to our wits' end to get
material to make enough to do our washing. I
can hardly tell today how we did succeed. But
the Lord opened our way and blessed us with
cheerful, contented spirits and thankful hearts.
	I well remember the first harvest home we
celebrated. Apostles Parley P. Pratt and
John Taylor called upon the sisters to prepare
a.feast. They prepared what food they could
from their meagre store and set a long table
in the Fort. Although the food was plain and
everything was done in a humble way, our
hearts flowed with thanksgiving to our
Heavenly Father for the blessings conferred
upon us. Our table decorations were sheaves
of wheat and other things that had been
raised. Although the crops were light we had
enough to last us another year, and some to
spare to our brethren and sisters that came
the following year.
	The second year of our being in the valley
the crickets threatened to destroy our crops;
men, women and children had to fight them,
many were driven into the ditches of water
and were piled where there was any obstruc-

[Column 2]

tion, bushels and bushels. The Lord sent the
quails to devour them and thus we were saved
from starvation.
	In the spring of 1849 many of the people
left the Fort where we first located and moved
to their city lots. During the next few years
our numbers rapidly increased, and many
poor saints gathered. Pres. Young then found
it advisable to again organize a Relief Society.
You have heard a sketch read this morning
of the organization of the Relief Society in
this city both before and after the move, I had
the honor of being chosen as First Counselor
to our President Phebe Woodruff, and Sister
Southworth as Second Counselor, in the first
organization of the society in the Fourteenth
Ward, where we worked faithfully for the re-
lief of the poor, and made many useful articles
of clothing which were given to the poor to
make them comfortable for their journey during
the Move. We were re-organized in the same
ward by Bishop Hoagland in the year 1867,
with myself as President, and Sisters Wilmirth
East and Susan B. Wilkinson as counselors.
	The various branches of the Society have
been in good working order from that day till
the present, and their labors and the good
that has been done cannot be written, and are
only known by our Father in heaven.
	In the year 1877 the Relief Society was or-
ganized in a Stake capacity, and I was selected
to fill the office of President of the Salt Lake
Stake, with Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and
Sarepta Heywood as Counselors, Elizabeth
Howard Sec., and B. W. Smith Treas. Sister
Heywood discharged faithfully the duties of
her office until her death,when Sister Helen M.
Whitney was elected to fill the vacancy. The
officers were set apart by Pres. Angus M.
Cannon and Counselors. The first Quarterly
Conference of the Relief Society of this Stake
was held in March, 1878, and have been held
regularly up to the present time.
	I have been a worker in the Society from the
first, and have rejoiced in the work we were
called upon to perform in looking after the
poor, comforting the sick, watching by their
bedsides, and preparing proper clothing for
them when they passed away. A great many
of our brethren and sisters have been respect-
ably clothed for burial by the members of this
society. Thousands of dollars have been
collected and given to the poor, besides re-
sponding to other calls that have been made
upon us. Pres. Young advised the sisters to
build houses in which to hold meetings and
perform their labors. Many branches have
done this, and also built granaries in which to
store their wheat, according to the counsel of
President Young, who was always interested
in the advancement and progress of the sisters.
	In 1870 Pres. Young called me to fill an
important home mission—that of organizing
the sisters into what was then called the Re-
trenchment Association, its object being to
lighten the labors of the women and give them
more time to devote to mental and spiritual
culture. It was some time before I could gain
sufficient courage to perform this labor, but
Sister Snow urged me to do my duty, so with
fear and trembling I endeavored to do so. In
the spring I invited about twelve presidents of
branches of the Relief Society to meet with me
in my own house. They were all willing to
help in the work. We appointed a meeting in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall and had a good
meeting. It was then that a committee of
three ladies, viz:, Mrs. Amelia Folsom Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball, 
were appointed to wait upon Acting Governor
Mann and thank him for signing the bill giv-
ing the elective franchise to women. From
that meeting we adjourned to the Fourteenth
Ward Hall where an organization was effected
with M. Isabella Horne as President, and
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Margaret

[Column 3]

T. Smoot, Phebe Woodruff, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sarah M. Kimball as her Coun-
selors.
	After Sister Smoot moved to Provo, Sister
Howard was chosen to fill her place and after
Sister Woodruff passed away Sister Minerva
W. Snow was chosen to fill the vacancy; since
the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, Sisters
Elizabeth T. Webb and Elizabeth Stevenson
have been added to our number.
	Meetings have been held semi-monthly
since that time, and much good instruction has
been given, and many of the sisters have ob-
tained a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
and the divine mission of Joseph Smith, who
had never thought much about religious mat-
ters before attending those meetings.
	I feel thankful to my Heavenly Father that
He inspired the Prophet Joseph to organize
the Relief Society and thus open the door for
the advancement of woman. May the good
work continue. May we appreciate our privi-
leges and go forth faithfully in the discharge
of our duties as mothers in Israel is the earnest
desire of your co-laborer in the kingdom of
God.


