			STATION.

			Logan, Utah, March 7th, 1892.
TO THE FARM PUBLIC:
	The Territorial Experiment Station, which
is a department of the Agricultural College of
Utah, has so far matured its organization that
it is enabled to widen its field of work.
	During the present season it desires to co-
operate with the farmers of Utah in the investi-
gation of the following subjects:
	I. SUGAR BEETS. For the purpose of as-
certaining the yield, composition, best methods
of cultivation and cost of production of sugar
beets in the several sections of the Territory,
the Station will furnish the seed of one or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more farmers and test the beets for sugar at 
several periods of development, free of charge.
	Those receiving seed will be required to keep
the cost of production and yield and to for-
ward samples for analysis from time to time.
	To make the investigation of the fullest
value it will be necessary for farmers of the
several sections of the Territory to join in the
trial.  For this purpose I request those in-
terested to forward their names.  Seeds and a
circular of instructions will be forwarded to
those requiring them, about April first.
	II. ALKALI SOIL.  The Station will make
analysis of representative alkali soils for sev-
eral sections of Utah.  Those interested are 
required to forward samples.  Circulars of in-
structions for sampling will be sent to those
who desire to forward samples.
	III. IRRIGATION INVESTIGATION.  The
College and Station expect to make a specialty
of irrigation problems.  It has already accu-
mulated data bearing on this subject. Through
its Chemist, Engineer, and Professor of Agri-
culture with the appliances at their command
several lines of inquiry will be instituted.
	We desire to secure water from all of our
important irrigation streams, artesian wells,
and reservoirs at varying seasons of the year,
in order to ascertain the sediment carried and


the amount of plant food held in solution in-
cluding the gases.
	At a later date will have other requests to
make relating to irrigation problems.
	IV. The Station will render any assistance
that it can by way of identification of insects
and plants of interest to agriculture.
	V. INSTITUTE MEETINGS. The Experiment
Station Staff assisted by College Professors
will during vacation and probably during the
coming winter deliver lectures over the Terri-
tory at such points as interested citizens may
invite them and make the adequate arrange-
ments for halls. The traveling expenses in
part or in full according to circumstances
will have to be met by the locality extending
the invitation. One or several will attend
these meetings and remain for one or more
days as may be desired.
	The press will oblige by copying at least the
sections of this notice relating to sugar beets
and to irrigating water.
		Very Respectfully,
			J. W. SANBORN,
				Director.


