MRS. ZINA. D. H. YOUNG PRESIDENT.
				
	(Written Tor the Jubilee March 17th, 1892
by Dr. R. B. Pratt.)
	After the death of Eliza R. Snow, which
occurred Dec. 5th, 1887, Sister Zina D.
Young, who had been her first counselor, took 
charge until the semi-annual conference of the 
Church, April 8th, 1888, when she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Society.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards, after the
authorities of the Church had been presented,
said: “Ourlamented Sister Eliza R. Snow
has been president of the Relief Society ever
since its organization in these mountains, and 
has labored with unexampled diligence for its
welfare and advancement. Her death now
leaves the organization without a president.
Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor.
It is now moved and seconded that she be
made president. Sister Young was unanimously
sustained.”
	October 11th, 1888, President Zina Young
chose as her first counselor Jane S. Richards,
as her second Bathsheba W. Smith, cor. sec.,
Emmeline B. Wells. They were set apart 
under the hands of the First Presidency of 
the Church.
	The central board of the Relief Society was
then fully organized as follows: President Zina
D.H. Young; first counselor, Jane S. Richards;
second counselor, Bathsheba W. Smith; sec.
Sarah M. Kimball; assistant sec., Romania B.
Pratt; cor. sec., Emmeline B. Wells; treasurer,
M. Isabella Horne.
	One of the most notable features of progress
of the Relief Society was the inauguration of
annual and semi-annual conferences for women,
where special instruction peculiar to their 
work could be given by the President and her

[Column 2]
counselors and other experienced women, and
where verbal reports are made by the Presidents
of Stake and societies or their representatives.
Each society through these privileges is
enabled to receive the benefit of the combined
wisdom and intelligence of the whole
	The first general conference of the Relief
Society convened in the Assembly Hall of 
this City Saturday morning, April 6th, 1889,
President Zina D. Young presiding, assisted
by her counselors. Sister Young wrote an
eloquent address which was read by E. B
Wells. It consisted of special instructions
upon the duty of women as wives and mothers
and Relief Society work.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief 
Society, was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, October 7th, 1889, Zina D, Young
presiding. There were two sessions.
	Conferences were also held April 7th, 1890
October 7th, 1890, April 7th, 1891 October
7th, 1891 the third semi-annual conference
was held in the Assembly Hall in this city.
President Zina D. Young presiding.
	The approximate amount expended in
charitable work during the years 1888-89-90
91, in Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Sand.
wich Islands, London and Canada was
$70, 892.04. There are probably over 400
branch societies, with a membership of about
25,300. Besides gathering and dispensing 
this vast amount of means, the Relief Society
has organized and managed many enterprises
called home industries, such as the Woman’s
Co-op Store, millinery parlors and dressmak-
ing establishments. Many branches have
built and own their own halls and wheat
granaries. When we consider the many 
thousands of the poor and needy that this
money has comforted, fed, clothed and kept
warm, the scope and industry of the Relief
Society organization can in a measure be
realized. President Zina Young, her counselors
and other sisters travel extensively among the 
Stakes,organizing new branches and instructing
in the work. They have been indefatigable in
their labors and the fruits thereof are already
seen in every part of the Church which has
been blessed by their presence.


