[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: LOVE AND LADIES' SOCIETY. | Author: George Anderson]

	LOVE AND LADIES' SOCIETY.

		By George Anderson.

	Mr. President, and Ladies and Gentle-
men of the 20th Ward Institute:—I have
chosen for my theme, "Love, and Ladies'
Society." I will quote the words of God,
as recorded in the 2nd capter of Genesis,
18th verse: "And the Lord God said, it is
not good that man should be alone; I will
make him an help meet for him." Histo-
ry, both sacred and profane, bears ample
testimony that this grand truth has been
realized and understood by the eminent
men of race, from the days of Father
Adam to the present. Adam chose rather
to leave Paradise, than be deprived of the
society of his beloved spouse. And he said
that a man should leave father and mother
and cleave to his wife. Seth, Enoch, Me-
thusaleh, Lameck, Noah, Melchisedek, Abra-
ham, Jacob, Moses, Gideon, Samson, Boaz,
David, Solomon, and many others, whose
names are handed down to posterity in the
Old Testament, all demonstrated, by their
course and conduct, that they realized and
understood that it is not good that man
should be alone. It is evident that women
loved to associate with our Lord and Sa-
viour Jesus Christ, and that He reciprocated
their love, even after His resurrection. The
apostle Peter was married, and it is gener-
ally conceded that his brethren of the
twelve were also married men. If the apos-
tle Paul was not married, he evidently be-
lieved in this sacred ordinance, and con-
sidered that he had a right to lead about a
sister, or a wife, "as well as other apostles,
and as the brethren of the Lord, and Ce-
phas." (1 Cor., 9th chap., 5th verse.) Paul
proclaimed marriage to be "honorable in
all." (Heb., XIII. iv.) And forbidding to
marry, he denounced as one of the "doc-
trines of devils." (1st Tim. IV.) The history
given in the Book of Mormon, of Lehi,
Nephi, Amulek, Mormon, Moroni, and other
eminent men, testifies that they also were
lovers of ladies' society. If we turn to the
pages of what is called profane history, we
find the same characteristics manifested by
the world's eminent men. As illustrations,
we might mention Plato, Cicero, Alexander,
Mahomet, Ceasar, Charlemange, Bacon,
Napoleon, Nelson, Goethe, Scott, Byron,
Burns, Augustus, Buckingham, Palmerston,
Webster, and hosts of others, whose names
I have not space to mention. I do not claim
that the conduct of all these men whom I
have mentioned was in all respects exem-
plary in their associations with the daugh-
ters of Eve, but I do claim that they
demonstrated by their acts, they were be-
lievers in the doctrine, that it is not good
that man should be alone. As eminent be-
lievers in this grand truth in our own day,
we might make honorable mention of Jo-
seph, Parley, Willard, Jedediah, Heber,
Brigham, Daniel, and hundreds of other
prominent men in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	True, the Papal Church and various other
classes, or sects, including many of both
sexes, have, during the various epochs of
the world's history, as well as in our
own time, attempted to extirpate from
their natures this heaven implanted desire;
but the results of such unnatural efforts
never have been, and never will be, desir-
able to any sensible, right-feeling man or
woman, who understands things as they are.
What is there about the ascetic, or the mis-
anthrope to be desired? and who would
wish to be sexually apathetic? I have been
led to reflect on this and kindred subjects,

[COLUMN 2]

in consequence of being informed that quite
a number of the girls and young ladies of
our community, are attending a certain
school in this city, which is under the aus-
pices and influence of a so-called church,
that has for centuries promulgated this un-
scriptural and unnatural dogma, as one of
its prominent doctrines; and also, because
I have often known of some of the young
ladies of our city having gone home in the
dark, from meetings and other public gath-
erings, unattended by even a single male
friend; and I have felt chagrined to think
that some of our young men were appar-
ently so lacking in gallantry, and I have
thought that there must be something wrong
somewhere; for there is a sexual magnet-
ism, or some kind of an influence, which
attends every good, virtuous, honorable man
to feel blessed in her society. She inspires
his soul with noble aspirations, draws out
his devotional feelings, and brings him
nearer to his God.
	The social condition of society, in portions
of the so-called civilized world, to-day, is
such as to render it unsafe for a lady to
walk abroad, unless attended by a male
protector. In fact, she is not safe if left
without a protector, even in her own house.
And to-day this deplorable condition of
things exists, to some extent in this Terri-
tory. No elder, or male member of this
church, should ever make attempt to take any
unlawful or improper liberties with any of
the daughters of Eve. He should be a pro-
tector of female chastity and honor, at all
times, upon all occasions, and under all cir-
cumstances. He might meet a lady, either
by day or by night, on the highway or in
the byway, in the field or in the forest, and
she should find in him nothing but a pro-
tector and friend. She might even visit
him, under similar circumstances to those
under which the faithful Ruth visited the
honorable Boaz, and he would only treat
her in a similar manner. For temptation
is the only test of virtue.
	The importance of the duty of procre-
ation has been generally recognized, par-
tially understood, and has been encouraged
in various ways, from the time that the
Lord said, "Be fruitful and multiply," up
to the present. The present age may be
a partial exception to this rule, especially in
our own nation. In ancient Sparta, the
special duty of women was to produce
strong, healthy children for the State. It is
said that it used to be the custom in China,
for a public place, all unmarried men who
were over thirty years of age, and all unmar-
ried women who were over twenty, and have
them publicly punished. Similar customs
have prevailed among other nations.
	I allude to these customs merely as histo-
rical facts, and not as examples in all re-
spects worthy of imitation.
	Tradition and history, both sacred and
profane, point to polygamy as the oldest
form of marital associations. Polygamy
has been practiced in every age and in every
clime. Four-fifths of our race have al-
ways been polygamists. Mahomet, at his
death, left nine widows; and his followers
are said to number one hundred and forty
millions. I will here state that, if I was
an infidel and an atheist, that my knowl-
edge of human nature as it is, would still
lead me, as a citizen of the world, to favor
the toleration of polygamy.
	The feeling, or principle, which should
influence all the associations of the sexes,
should invariably be that Heaven-born at-
tribute—Love. Some one has said "Love

[COLUMN 3]

not; the thing you love may die." But my
experience has taught me that, "It is bet-
ter to have loved and lost, than never to
have loved at all." If we wish to feel as
we should feel, and live as we should live;
if we wish to be successful in the perfor-
mance of all life's duties; if we desire true
happiness, we must love and be loved, from
the cradle to the grave; and if, through
any unfavorable circumstances whatever,
we are deprived of "the bliss of loving,
and of being loved," our loss is incalcula-
ble. It is an axiom that there can be no
true love where there is no respect. Love
is the normal condition of our race.
	The new-born babe nestling in its moth-
er's bosom appreciates love, and the capaci-
ty to appreciate love continues (under fa-
vorable circumstances) to increase during
the periods of childhood and adolescence,
at which period that peculiar phase of love,
which seeks the society of the opposite sex,
is strengthened and intensified. And if
we are governed by correct principles, this
immortal passion will continue with us
through the journey of life, smoothing our
pathway, cheering, comforting and encour-
aging us in prosperity and in adversity, in
health and in sickness, and under all cir-
cumstances it will make our meeting with
the grim monster, Death, appear less terri-
ble; it will brighten our passage through the
dark "valley of the shadow of death;" it
will attend us in the world of spirits, and
will continue to inspire us to godlike deeds.
	"While life or thought or being lasts
	Or immortality endures."
	In conclusion, I will quote the language
of an able writer on this interesting and
important subject. In speaking of love he
says: "It is not confined to the gifted, the
high born or the rich, nor is it peculiar to
any period of the world, or to any condition
of life. All have possessed the sensibility, if
they have not experienced the passion; they
have felt the want of love, if they have not
enjoyed its fruition."
	"Love sheds on earth something of the
beauty and the light of heaven. Love de-
velops the noblest traits of humanity; and
often brings them out from those persons
who had given little promise of possessing
them until they were brought under the in-
fluence of this master passion. There is
nothing so great, so difficult, or so self-sac-
rificing, that love will not inspire men to
dare, and do. But it is not more in splendid
achievements or wonderful adventures, than
it is in the innumerable little things which
conspire to make up the happiness of social
life, that the greatest victories of love are
won. We cannot love any person, without
seeking his or her benefit, and in endeavor-
ing to benefit and please the object of our
affection, we are impelled to improve and
beautify ourselves, in order to become more
worthy of our beloved one's affection in re-
turn. And this leads us not only to adorn
our persons, but to polish our manners, and
cultivate our minds. Hence we are deeply
indebted to this sentiment, for those quali-
ties of mind and person, which combine to
constitute us social beings; since it does not
more certainly impel us to the acquisition
of what is beautiful and becoming in dress,
and deportment, than to the attainment of
intelligence, politeness, and to surround
ourselves with all the embellishments of
civilization. Love refines all that it touch-
es. Under its influence the rough boy be-
comes the respectful young gentleman, and
the awkward girl assumes the innate refine-
ment of the lady. Love paints the cheeks
with roses, adds more lustre and intelligence


to the eye, imparts strength and elasticity
to the step, grace and dignity to the mien,
courage to the heart, eloquence to the ton-
gue, and poetry to every thought. In fact
love is the poetry of life, and the life of poe-
try. Love has inspired in every age the
brightest dreams of fancy, and the noblest
conceptions of literature, and of art, consti-
tuting the perpetual theme which animates
the writer's pen, and tunes the "poet's lyre."

O happy love!—where love like this is found!—
O heartfelt rapture! bliss beyond compare!
I've paced much this weary world around
And sage experience bids me this declare—
If heaven a draught of heavenly pleasure spare,
One cordial in this melancholy vale,
'Tis when a youthful, loving, modest pair,
In other's arms breathe out the tender tale,
Beneath the milk-white thorn that scents the evning gale.
