[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: THE NEED OF THE HOUR. | Author: Unknown]

THE NEED OF THE HOUR.
	THERE never has been a time when
there was greater need of activity and
diligence in looking after the interests of
this community than the present. To
securely guard all the sacred rights of the
people of fair Utah should be the first con-
sideration of those who assemble in the
various districts and conventions. In these
serious matters partisanship should be un-
known. It is a common interest for the
well-being of the state with all its people
and not for the few who manipulate its
affairs. The whole commonwealth and
all the various needs, of all the departments
of labor, education, enterprise, and every-
thing which enters into the growth and
prosperity of a people depend largely upon
the work of these preliminary proceedings
being well and judiciously done. The
future development of a country of innum-
erable resources to be cultivated, and il-
limitable wealth to be produced by the
energy, perserverance, thrift and industry
of its sons and daughters, will depend
greatly upon the magnificence of the Con-
stitution which is soon to be formed by
delegates chosen from among the people.
O, that supreme wisdom may be given
them as it was to our forefathers, who
framed the glorious Constitution of our
great Republic. If they will only build
strong and well that the highest attainment
possible may be achieved by the state and
the' largest freedom and opportunity given
to all her citizens irrespective of sex.
	The men who frame the Constitution for
the State of Utah are expected to build a
structure that will be permanent, that will
have a sure foundation and will not need
continually patching up because it is not
equally well poised and properly balanced
in all its parts; the strangers who visit
beautiful Utah all agree that it has the ad-
vantage of almost any other section of
country in our broad land in natural
facilities and in beauty of location, and
therefore it should have the best, the wisest
and the strongest Constitution, to corres-
pond with its belongings.
	There is no doubt of the progress of the
Western world in time to come, and it can
already boast of its brave, grand, loyal and
patriotic sons and daughters, born in these
Western wilds of hardy pioneer ances-
try, and these brave, true, strong and
patriotic men (for women have not yet the
privilege) are about to take into their keep-
ing the future well-being of the new state,

[Column 2]
and to say what its laws shall be, or to
vote upon these momentous questions.
How will they consider the interests of the
sex who have no representation save
through them? Will their claims to citizen-
ship be guaranteed to them through these
great grand noble hearted sons of the soil.
They must be trusted with this live ques-
tion, it cannot be ignored for this is the wo-
man’s age of the world and now the imper-
ative need of the hour, is pending. Shall
woman see Utah crowned with the
honors of statehood and be content that
men shall represent her at the polls. Let
them take for their standard in this matter
the declaration of Abraham Lincoln, who
said, “I go in for all, sharing the privileges
of the government among those who assist
in bearing its burdens, by no means ex-
cluding women."


[Column 1]

