[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY EXCURSION. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY EXCURSION. 

	THE first excursion the Relief Society
ever had was celebrated on Friday, August
24, 1894. and was a most interesting oc-
casion. Some of the committee went over
to the Lake in the forenoon to look after
matters, and at 2.15 p. m. there were four-
teen cars crowded full to overflowing, 
left the depot en route for Saltair. Arriv-
ing at the pavilion baskets were deposited 
in the great dining hall and the committee
and their aids prepared for the program of 
exercises. The Relief Society banner had been 
hung in a conspicuous place, also the 
streamer representing the Silk Industry, 
noting the time the association was 
organized by President Brigham Young. 
	President George Q. Cannon who had 
been specially invited to speak and President
Angus M. Cannon, Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, E. B. Wells, M.
W. Wilcox, E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. 
Howe and L. D. Alder and several other 
members of the committee and of the 
Relief Society were seated on the platform. 
The Committee wore badges of white rib-
bon, the name Relief Society and the motto
"Charity never faileth" in gold letters, 
emblematic of the work of the Society. 
	The exercises opened with the favorite
hymn "O, my Father thou that dwellest," 
the large audience being asked to join in 
the singing. President Angus M. Cannon
offered prayer. 
	President George Q. Cannon gave a 
short speech suitable to the occasion upon 
the grand work accomplished by the Relief 
Society among the needy, the sick and the 
afflicted, and referred in terms of praise
and encouragement to the diligence and 
patience with which the sisters had labored, 
setting forth the aims and objects of the 
Society and the blessing it had been to 
many, and praying the blessing of the Lord 
upon the efforts made and upon the assem-
bly there gathered etc. 
	The Cecelia Club nine young ladies all 
fine singers rendered in excellent voice the 
song of "Mother's Lullaby." The Swiss
Warblers in costume, three ladies and two 
gentlemen in the quaint fashion of their 
native country were an attractive feature,
and their musical warble so well suited to
the Swiss mountains sounded well in the 
great open pavilion. Mrs. C. Louise
Boyden the elocutionist gave a "Model 
Discourse" (humorous) and Eli H. Pierce
sang a comic song. "There's a lock on the 
chicken coop door." Master Bertie Clive

[Column 2]
five years old, gave two selections on the 
violin and was loudly applauded; the child
is a musical genius, as was his father, who is 
now a fine violinist. Thomas Dobson who 
came over the plains with the hand-cart
company and had both his feet frozen, re-
lated a little of his sad experience, and then 
gave the Fisher's hornpipe. The Highland 
Fling by Miss Mabelle Derrick in costume 
was very pleasing, she gives it in good 
style, and the dress is specially becoming. 
Martin Lenzi gave one of his fancy dances, 
he is still light upon his feet, and dances
wonderfully, though in his 80th year. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Hunter a Scotch woman in her
Highland costume gave us a Scotch dance, 
(she is also somewhere in the seventies)
and fond of the exercise, complained the 
music was not fast enough; she has won
many prizes for her dancing in times past. 
Miss Lyle Young gave the old fashioned
Minuet, in the most graceful manner. Al- 
together the program was a success, though
we had one or two disappointments. Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edwards who was to have
sung a selection of her own but was too ill
to be present, and the Harmony Glee Club
(all male voices) which was expected to 
lead out failed, when too late to secure some
other number in its place, but all things
considered it was very satisfactory. After 
the exercises Richard Horne who had
called off the program pronounced the 
benediction, and the audience dispersed. 
	The lunch prepared by a refreshment
Committee of which Elizabeth J. Stevenson
was chairman, was most delicious and
appetizing. The entire Committee and 
those who gave their services to assist with 
the program were invited to partake of the 
bountiful repast. 
	The object of the gathering was particu-
larly to obtain means to aid in establishing
other home manufactures in connection
with the Woman's  Co-operative Store, that 
those who needed employment to obtain 
the necessaries and comforts of life during
the coming winter might have remunerative
work and not be dependent upon charity, 
which makes people feel so much better 
than receiving help. We cannot state now 
just how large a sum has been raised but 
as the percentage allowed was only one
fourth, it could not be a great deal. 
	The Committee  feel very grateful to all 
those who assisted in any and every way to 
make it a success and especially so to those
who so willingly and liberally gave their 
services to make the program interesting, 
those who sang, danced, recited etc. Mrs. 
Horne and the ladies associated with her
may congratulate themselves that the day 
was an enjoyable one and the party was a 
very happy occasion as a reunion for a 
faithful band of diligent workers.


