[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Orangeville, Wednes-
day, May 15, at 10 a.m. The conference
was well attended by Relief Society sis-
ters and a number of brethren. There was
present besides the Relief Society stake
officers, Sister Margaret A. Caine of the
General Board of Relief Society.
	During the morning session the speak-
ers were President Mary A. Sorensen,
Counselors Caroline A. Guymon and Mary
J. King, Elder Alma Jewkes and Sister
Caine.
	Reports of the Orangeville, Huntington
and Clawson wards were given. An in-
strumenal selection was nicely rendered
by Sister Maggie Cox, and a talk on the
“Life and Works of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee” was ably given by Lucinda
Curtis.
	In the afternoon, reports were given
by the presidents of the Castledale, Wel-
lington, Ferron, Molen, Desert Lake and
Castlegate wards. The speakers were
Sister Annie M. Larsen, Elder U. E. Cur-
tis, Patriarch Franklin D. Young and
Sister Caine. A duet was rendered by
Nettie Crawford and Fannie Cox. May
Poulson sang, “The Picture of My Moth-
er.” Sister  Nathalie Andersen gave a
talk on nursing.
	A good spirit prevailed throughout the
conference, and good singing was fur-
nished by the Orangeville Relief Society,
assisted by the brethren. The day was
perfect and everything seemed to com-
bine to make our conference a success.
	An officers’ meeting was held between
the forenoon and afternoon sessions, at
which Sister Caine gave special instruc-
tions to the officers and teachers.
	ANNIE MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Summit Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Coalville, June 16,
1907. Sister Susan Grant of the General
Board and Moses W. Taylor, Thomas L.
Allen and George W. Young of the Stake
Presidency, Prest. Celeste Y. Pack and
Counselor Sarah C. Taylor of the Stake
Relief Society Board were present.

[Column 2]
	After reading the annual report by
Stake Secretary Annie M. Wilson, show-
ing the society to be in a very prosper-
ous condition, Sister Annie Philipps and
Sadie Rasband of Park City sang a beau-
tiful selection.
	Sister Grant then addressed the con-
ference. She was very much gratified
with the splendid report of the presidents
throughout the stake, and spoke at some
length in regard to storing grain and Re-
lief Society work in its various lines.
	Sister Priscilla Evans of Coalville sang,
“Change Not the Old for the New.”
Sister Mary H. Neeley read a paper on
the “Mother’s work.” Prest. Moses W.
Taylor appreciated the work done by the
Relief society of the Summit stake, par-
ticularly in caring for the sick and poor.
Sister Mattie Salmon Baker of Alberta,
Canada, sang a solo.
	Prest. Pack was pleased with the unity
existing throughout the wards in the
stake and the general prosperous con-
dition of the same. Fourteen of the sev-
enteen wards were represented at the
conference.
	An officers’ meeting was held in the
Relief Society hall on Saturday and Sun-
day morning, the hall being crowded to
its utmost, many having to stand.
