[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: MOTHERS’ WORK. | Author: ANNIE LAKER, SUSANNA PUGMIRE, EM-]

		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
Lecture I. Self Control.
	He who reigns within himself and
rules passions, desires and fears is more
than a king.” 2nd. Parents should be
masters of themselves. 3rd. Be what
you wish your child to be. Anger begets
anger, love begets love.

Lecture 2. Spiritual Development.
	1st. The progress we make here goes
with us into eternity. 2nd. Insincerity in
religion. At all times be what you seem.
3rd. When you attend meeting go with a
desire to gain a blessing rather than for
pastime.

Lecture 3. Ideal Mothers.
	1st. Do not abuse your bodies by over-
work, for the mental powers are weak-
ened proportionately. 2nd. To govern a
family aright, the mother should enjoy
physical and mental strength. 3rd. Try
to be happy under all circumstances.

Lecture 4. Child Development.
	1st. The forming of brain cells and
nerve centres. 2nd. How to strengthen
a good trait and weaken a bad one. 3rd.
Direct rather than check a child’s act
ivities.

Lecture 5. Respect for all God’s Creat-
		ures.
	1st. “Ridicule is the weapon of
the ignorant.” 2nd. A plain face
and plain clothing should not be the basis
of our estimate of people. 3rd. Should
learn to value the conduct and qualities
of the mind above all else.

Lecture 6. Judge not.
	1st. Be careful in talking of things that
do not concern you. Children easily ac-
quire the habit. 2nd. Be just and merci-
ful in your estimate of people. 3rd. Look
for the good in your fellows and you can
always find it.

Lecture 7. Rights of Children.
	1st. In dealing with children do not
forget you were once a child. 2nd. Over-
indulgence harmful. Self-denial good for
children. 3rd. Do not indulge self and
demand too much of your children. 4th.
Treat them in such a manner that they
will learn self-government.

Lecture 8. Unity of Parents.
	1st. Parents should not oppose each
other in correcting their children. 2nd. 
The wife should not oppose her husband
in business matters, rather suggest and
advise. 3rd. When one parent finds it
necassary to deny a child anything, the 
other parent has no right to indulge the
child in that particular.

Lecture 9. Mothers as Public Workers. 
	1st. Is it selfish for a mother to devote
all her time to her family. 2nd. Benefits
received from working in the Church
organizations. 3rd. Woman’s advance-
ment depends on her own efforts not her
husbands. 4th. The first requisite to a
successful life in any capacity is to love
the work.

Lecture 10. Hospitality.
	1st. A hospitable person is usually un-
selfish, finds pleasure in sharing what he
has with others. 2nd. Hospitality does
not consist in elaborate preparation
alone, but of the kindness that prompts
our treatment of friends 3rd. Give ex-

[Column 2]
amples of what you regard as genuine
hospitality.

Lecture 11. Unselfishness.
	1st. No other quality is so far-reach-
ing in the home as this. The duty of
every member of the family to learn to be
unselfish. 2nd. When one member
shirks his duty the burden falls more
heavily on some other of the family 3rd.
to be a good citizen one must learn to do
his part, and not withhold his services
while he complains of what others are
doing.

Lecture 12. Patience.
	1st. The struggles of life end only in
the grave. Sorrow is the common lot of
all. 2nd. Do not magnify your own
troubles by dwelling on them. 3rd, Bear
in patience all the ills that you cannot
correct, for without a cross there is no
crown.
	ANNIE LAKER, SUSANNA PUGMIRE, EM-
ILY RICHARDS, HERMOINE HART, Commit-
tee.


[Column 1]
