[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: Holland and the Cause of Peace | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

HOLLAND AND THE CAUSE OF PEACE.
	The year 1907 will be remarkable in
many respects; and one very important
and notable event has been a real “Par-
liament of Man.” The first Hague con-
ference in 1899 had representatives from
twenty-six nations only, and that was a
beginning, but this year, 1907, the con-
ference holding its sessions in the “Old
Hall of Knights,” at the Hague, we may
say represented the civilized world. The
forty-six nations whose delegates were
gathered in that august assembly, what-
ever may be the achievements, mark a
significant period in human history.
	Looking backward in history, Holland
has made momentous progress for the
peace and welfare of the world.
	William Penn, in his remarkable essay,
published in Europe in 1693, a few years
before his last visit to Pennsylvania, con-
tains some astonishing statements on the
subject of what is termed today interna-
tional union. One paragraph reads: “The
United States of Holland, established at
Utrecht in 1579, was the great precursor
of the United States of America, and the
prophecy of the United States of Europe.”
	In this age it is apparent that great
powers are working for what the poet
Tennyson, who is so often quoted, called
“the federation of the world.”
	The motto of the Dutch Union was
“By concord little things become great.”
	It is said that the first large and con-
spicuous example in modern history of
liberty and self-government was given by
Holland. Its Dutch Republic antedates
the English Commonwealth as it ante-
dates the planting of New England which
it so signally promoted.
	New England owes a debt to Holland
for its generous hospitality to its exiled
forefathers.
	It is worth while to note the principle
of toleration in the history of Holland;
in this respect one of the greatest writers

[Column 2]
has said Holland led mankind. Motley
says “While religious persecution raged
over all the world besides, this Republic
became the refuge for the oppressed of
all nations.” Not only did our pilgrim
fathers turn to Holland but the perse-
cuted Huguenots in France turned their
faces to Holland when they prayed. In
view of many facts in history relating to
the Dutch Republic and religious tolera-
tion, it is not astonishing, but indeed it
seems a natural consequence that the gos-
ple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints should find so many fol-
lowers in the Dutch provinces, and such
freedom and liberty to teach and preach
its doctrines.
	One of the recent writers of modern
times says, “It was in accord with poetic
justice and the historic fitness of things
that the capital of Holland, the land of
Grotius and Erasmus should have been
chosen as the seat of the most august and
beneficent Congress of modern times;
for such surely history will pronounce the
two Peace Conferences at “The Hague.”
It was from the Government of the Neth-
erlands that the formal invitations went
to the nations. On the beautiful May-
day in 1899 when the first conference
opened, the flags of nearly all civilized
countries were thrown to the breeze from
the public buildings of the Dutch capital,
and in the afternoon the representatives
of twenty-five nations met for the open-
ing ceremonies in the Orange Hall of
the famous “House in the Wood.”
	M. de Beaufort, the Netherlands min-
ster of foreign affairs, called the meeting
to order. He said: “Her Majesty, my
august Sovereign, has put at the disposal
of this Conference the most historical
monument she possesses. This room,
decorated by the greatest artists of the
17th century, was erected by the widow
of Prince Frederick Henry to the mem-
ory of her husband.” He then explained
some of the allegorical figures of great
merit. One where Peace enters the
room to close the Temple of Janus.
He expressed the wish that it might be a
good omen for their labors, and after de-
liberations were concluded they could say
that Peace, which is shown to enter the
room, has gone out for the purpose of
scattering its blessings over all humanity.
It was there that on the 29th of July,
1899, the arbitration convention was
signed, which provided for settling differ-
ences by arbitrament of reason, instead
of arbitrament of arms.
	The corner-stone of the Temple of
Peace at the Hague has been laid in this
memorable summer of 1907, and of the
Parliament of Man; an event of peculiar
significance to Americans because of the
munificent gift of a million and a half of
dollars by Andrew Carnagie. This is the
material semblance of the good time
coming, and may the spiritual influences
also be a prophecy of the true spirit and
power that shall eventually come through
faith in God, and the everlasting gospel,
viz: “Peace on earth and good will among
men,” as foretold by the Divine Master,
the “Prince of Peace.”
	The Latter-day Saints are working for
peace, and for religious toleration in the
strict sense of the word, and they main-
tain the principles for which the Consti-
tution of our country stands, and one of
them is “An asylum for the oppressed of
all nations.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
