OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference held this month in
Salt Lake City, was replete with interest through-
out. The first morning the Tabernacle was
crowded, and each day thereafter, morning and
afternoon; and on Sunday hundreds went away
unable to obtain seats, while many stood in the
aisles and doorways during the service. A great
deal of emotion was evinced when President
Wilford Woodruff came on the stand just previous
to the commencement, of the afternoon services.
Never upon any Sabbath day in the Tabernacle
was there such an expression made of es-
teem and reverence as when this aged man
and servant of God appeared in the midst of
the people, after an absence of nearly three
years. It must have been a testimony to
him that he could not fail to appreci-
ate of the genuine love and esteem of the Latter-
day Saints. God grant him many such oppor-
tunities of meeting with the Saints, and may he
live to accomplish all that he desires to do for the
living and the dead, and his enemies have no
power to hinder him in the performance of the
great work to which he has been called.
	It is something to rejoice in, under the circum-
stances. that at such a multitudinous gathering as
that of Sunday, the 9th of October, that so many
of the quorum of the Apostles could be present,
and that the people might enjoy the privilege of
looking upon their faces, and of hearing them
speak and bear testimony. It was a good day for
Israel, and no doubt many hundreds went away
not only edified and instructed and comforted, but
happier in spirit and feeling at having been per-
mitted to behold again those who have borne in a
great measure the responsibility of the establish-
ing of this kingdom, and from time to time perse-
cution, affliction, hardship and privation, yet re-


mained firm, steadfast and immoveable in those
eternal principles upon which the Gospel is
founded.
	And thus, while passing through difficulties and
suffering for the truth’s sake, the Saints have
reason to rejoice in it all, knowing that the triumph
is sure, and the reward cannot fail.


[Column 1]
