SUGGESTIONS.

	In the word of wisdom, revealed to the
Prophet Joseph Smith, Feb. 27th, 1833, there
is a deep mine of wealth as yet only partially
explored, even by the Latter-day Saints, for
whose especial good it was given. Many beau-
tiful truths yet remain to be discoursed by
those who meditate upon this very comprehen-
sive revelation and seek for the same spirit by
which it was given, for truly "none can com-
prehend the things of God, but by the Spirit of
God."
	In that day the Lord said this revelation
was "to be sent greeting, not by commandment,
or constraint, but by the word of wisdom, 
showing forth the order and will of God in the
temporal salvation of all Saints in the last
days. Given for a principle, with a promise
adapted to the capacity of the weak and the
weakest of all Saints, who are or can be called
Saints; but at the general conference held Oct.,
1885, Apostle H. J. Grant, one of the mouth
pieces of the Lord, to whom He has promised
to give line upon line, and precept upon pre-
cept for the benefit of His children, as they
may require from day to day, said, "The word
of wisdom is adapted to all, and it comes to us
now by commandment, and is therefore obliga-
tory upon all to practice the same in the spirit
in which it was given."
	God designed man to live long upon the
earth in health and strength, with power to
labor and accomplish all He required of him;

[Column 2]
He designed him to live to the age of a tree,
not dragging out a miserable existence, but full
of life and vitality; but such a state is impos-
sible according to the systems of living adopted
by man, which tend to degenerate, but the word
of wisdom is full of the principles of regenera-
tion, and if observed, will gradually bring us
back to our normal condition as enjoyed by
the ancients, who could number their days by
the hundreds, not being cut off untimely by
disease, but yielding to old age because death
was pronounced upon them within a thousand
years, or a day of the Lord's time. 
	After defining the various uses to which the
products of the earth are to be put for the bene-
fit of man, the Lord expressly forbids the use
of "strong drink," but says, "It is for the
WASHING OF YOUR BODIES" Now, I think
the full import of this sentence is better under-
stood by the Saints in general as it was by  my-
self a few years ago. Though I had read the
revelation from childhood, and had avoided
the use of tea, coffee, and, to a certain extent,
other forbidden articles, still for many years I
was in a low, debilitated state of health, a
victim to a species of muscular rheumatism
of the spine, and other complications, which 
made life a weary burden, which, but for a
mighty faith in God, and an irrepressible hope,
I would have gladly yielded up as a cross too
heavy to bear. Being impressed with the
necessity of cleanliness, I strictly observed its
rules, as far as possible, though the bath was
my constant terror, in consequence of the ex-
cessive pain, fatigue and languor it occasioned,
also for the painful stiffness which invariably
followed, though using, as I thought, the ut-
most caution. One of our lady physicians,
who firmly believes that science and true religion
always agree, advised the free use of alcohol
over the entire surface of the body after each
ablution, referring me to this item contained
in the word of wisdom. I took the advice
of the Great Physician, revealed anew to me
individually—through His daughter, herself a
disciple of the divine art of healing, and soon
discerned that the bath, instead of being a
means of torture, became a source of pleasure
as well as profit. From that time I gradually
regained lost power, and feel that I have found
at least one of the hidden treasures, and am 
beginning to realize the promise, "That all
Saints who remember to keep and do these 
sayings, walking in obedience to the command-
ments, shall run and not be weary, shall walk 
and not faint."
	I have also learned through experience that
children suffering from any form of lung com-
plaint, or the weakness and debility attending
summer complaints, are greatly benefitted by 
being well rubbed with liquor. More than fifty
years ago the Lord again revealed—the first
time as revealed in the Apostle James, 5th
chapter, 14th verse, and again through His
Latter-day Prophet—the virtue of anointing
the sick with oil. This principle was not ac-
cepted at that time in the medical world, but
has since become universally acknowledged of
the utmost value in all fevers, though as yet
but few believe that "the effectual fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much."
The world may reject the fact of an open
channel of communication between the Creator
and His children, and particularly concerning
temporal matters, but this can be nothing less
than an insult to the Fountain of all intelli-
gence, who is the same yesterday, to-day and
forever. His power has not diminished, but
the lack of faith compelled Him to withdraw
His revelations from the children of men, but
He has again spoken from the heavens, He is
still the giver of every good and perfect gift,
and the day is near at hand when every knee
must bow and every tongue confess the Lord,
and acknowledge His hand in all things.
