			MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Maricopa Stake held
their quarterly conference at Zenos, Sept. 22nd.
1887,commencing at 1 p.m., Mrs.E. G. McDon-
ald presiding. A number of the brethren were
present, including Bro. Henry Rogers and
Charles I. Robson of the Stake Presidency;
also Bishop Pomeroy and Counselors. After
the usual preliminaries of singing and prayer,
the roll of Stake officers was called and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald made a few remarks,
and prayed that the Spirit of God would direct
us in our meeting. Desired to hear the reports
from the different branches. This was re-			
sponded to with the exception of the Tempe
branch, which was not in working order, on
account of the general move being made from
that branch.
	Coun. Adelaide Allen represented the Mesa
Ward; Prest. Lizzie McDonald, Lehi; Prest.
Ann Kleinman, Almy. All spoke in praise of
the faithful few in their several branches; the
few who were always ready with generous
hearts and willing hands to comfort those who
were in trouble and assist the needy; always
[Column 2]									
present at their meetings, and faithful to their
duties connected, with their organization.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt gratified with
the good reports which had been given, but felt
there was an inexcusable slackness with a good
many in regard to their meetings. Had visited
the different branches since last conference,and
felt gratified with the good spirit which at-
tended their meetings. Spoke upon the sub-
ject of slander and of the baneful influence it
exercised in a community if given way to; it
should not have a place in our midst; it had
brought sorrow and heart-aches to many an 
innocent person. Spoke of the trying times 
the Saints were passing through; let them re-
joice and trust in God, for He alone can carry
us safely through. Wished to hear from the
brethren present.
	Bro. Henry Rogers was pleased to respond
to the call made upon him. Spoke in regard
to the first organization of the Relief Society
by Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Most
High God. They were intended for good, and
were a great benefit when carried on properly.
“Let us avoid the spirit of fault-finding of the
ward, stake, or society.” Compared the
Saints to wheat and tares. “Are we wheat or
tares?” Exhorted the Saints to be faithful to
all their duties, that they might retain a name
and place in the Church and kingdom of God.
	Bro. Charles Robson spoke of the evil influ-
ences which are around us continually to lead
us astray. “Good and evil are placed before
us, which will we choose? Let us secure
eternal life by choosing the good continually.”
Spoke of the benefit of prayer. “Our hearts
should be lifted in prayer to God while we are
at our labors, and blessings will flow on every
hand. Let us pray for our officers, instead of
criticising them.” Gave some good instruc-
tions in regard to the principles of obedience;
exhorted mothers to teach this principle to their
children.	
	They were followed in their remarks by
Bishops Pomeroy and Stewart, who felt to en-
dorse what had been said, and to encourage the
sisters in their good work.
	The names of the Relief Society officers of
the Stake were then presented to the conference,
and were sustained unanimously; the statistical
and financial report was also read by the Secre-
tary.
	After a few remarks by the President, con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
“Guide us, O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Bene-
diction by Bro. Charles Allen.
