				MEMORY

	Thurlow Weed has given a most interesting
account of the method adopted by himself for
strengthening his memory.
	"When a young man," says Mr. Weed, "I
had to adopt a regular method for strengthen-
ing my memory, and I hit on one that was very
effective. I got married in 1818, when I was
working in Albany as a journeyman printer.
In a few months I went into business, establish-
ing a newspaper for myself, and some of my
friends thought I would succeed in politics,
probably because I impressed my views strongly
on those about me. But I saw at once that I
had a fatal weakness which I thought would
prevent it. My memory was a seive; I could
remember nothing. Dates, names, appoint-
ments, faces, everything, escaped me. I said
to my wife, "Catherine, I shall never make a
successful politician. For I cannot remember,
and that is a prime necessity of politicians. A
politician who sees a man once should remem-
bes him forever.' My wife told me I must train
my memory. So when I came home that night
I sat down alone, and spent fifteen minutes try-
ing silently to recall with accuracy the princi-
pal events of the day.  I could remember but
little at first; now I remember that I could not
then recall what I had for breakfast. After a
few days' practice I found I could recall more.
Events came back to me more minutely, more
accurately, and more vividly than at first.
After a fortnight or so of this, Catherine said,
'Why don't you relate to me the events of the
day, instead of recalling them to yourself? It
would be interesting, and my interest in it
would be a stimulus to you.' Having a great
respect for my wife's opinion, I began a habit
of oral confession, as it were, which was con-
tinued for almost fifty years. Every night,
the last thing before retiring, I told her every-
thing I could remember that had happened to
me, or about me during the day. I generally
recalled the very dishes I had had for breakfast,
dinner, and tea; the people I had seen and what
they had said; the editorials I had written for
my paper, giving her brief extracts of them;
I mentioned all the letters I had sent or re-
ceived. and the very language used, as nearly
as possible, when I had walked or ridden.
told her everything that had come within m


observation. I found I could say my lessons
better and better every year, and instead of
the practice growing irksome, it became a
pleasure to go over again the events of the day.
I am indebted to this discipline for a memory
of somewhat unusual tenacity,and I recommend
the practice to all who wish to store up facts,
or expect to have much to do with influencing
men."
	Scholars, scientists, and others engaged in
active intellectual pursuits, realize how neces-
sary to success is a good memory; and nearly
every person, of whatever mental calibre, from
experience organized into instinct, remembers
the hard facts connected with the daily routine
of work; but how few persons take the trouble
to cultivate the memory as a fine art. The
number of people who forget events, dates, and
names is astonishing. These excuse themselves
by saying, “I did not expect to have occasion
to remember.” The pleasures of memory are
a myth to them, and everything profitless that
will not be required for actual use to-day or to-
morrow. It is from this class that we recruit-
that vast army of people whose memories
though confessedly defective and untrained in
historical and literary matter, have always per-
fect recollections of damaging incidents and
facts concerning a friend's misfortunes or short
comings. In repeating a story about A, B, or
C, they resent as an insult the suggestion of
possible inaccuracies and crudeness.
	“Oh, no! I remember perfectly all about it,”
when, in fact, they remember nothing but a few
confused fragments, out of which they recon-
struct an entirely new series of facts and inci-
dents. The most important point in strengthen-
ing the memory is not that incidents and occur-
rences of minor consequence may be carried in
the mind for years; because the memory, like a
storehouse, can easily be overcrowded with
mental rubbish, but that the pith of one's daily
experience and learning may be impressed upon
the brain and become part of its structure. In
this way only can one add to substantial knowl-
edge day by day, and lay the foundation for
ready understanding, keen perception, acute
judgment, and quick wit.
	Said a lawyer friend: “I make it a point
never to remember a word of what I said in
any particular case; what I remember are the
facts, the mental research, the emotions, facul-
ties, feelings called into play by that case. and
from these recollections, which are the meat
within the shell, I am able to argue more and
more forcibly each time in similar cases.”
	This faculty for discarding the chaff and re-
taining the wheat of experience is to be ac-
quired only by persistent education and train-
ing of the memory to seize upon and appropri-
ate the substance of events and incidents and
not the verbiage.
	Begin in the school-room by educating
children to repeat, not the words, but the sub-
stance contained in the lesson of the text-book;
and the habits of thought and memory (and
not parrot-like utterance) will very probably
become fixed for a life-time.
						—Dress.


