		﻿THE MINORITY REPORT.

	It is a little satisfaction to know that there are,
among the Utah Commission, two men whose
opinions on the subject of more legislation for Utah
differ essentially from the majority, and who seem
to have some conscientious convictions, and are
not in favor of more severe laws or enforcement
of laws than what are already in force. The mi-
nority report to which we refer contains some
quotations from Madison and Jefferson that bear
strongly upon the question treated upon and every
true lover of justice would do well to bear them in
mind. Reference is also made to the Supreme
Court of the United States and the quotation made
is in unmistakable language.” The Supreme
Court of the United States has declared that
Laws are made for the government of actions
and while they cannot interfere with mere religious
belief, they may with practices. Con-
gress cannot pass a law for the government of the
Territories which shall prohibit the free exercise
of religion. The first amendment to the constitu-
tion expressly forbids such legislation. Religious
freedom is guaranteed everywhere throughout the
United States so far as Congressional interference
is concerned. [8 Otto, 145.]
	Madison says sententiously: “Religion, or the
duty we owe to the Creator, is not within the pro-
vince of civil government.”
	Jefferson says: “Believing that religion is a mat-
ter which lies solely between man and his God;
and that he owes account to none other for his
faith or his worship; that the legislative
powers of the government reach actions only and
not opinions, I contemplate with solemn reverence
that act of the whole American people which de-
clares that their legislature should make no law
respecting an establishment of religion, or pro-
hibiting the free exercise thereof." [8 Jefferson's
Work, 113]
	Upon the passage of the Act of March, 3, 1887,
similar views were expressed by distinguished
senators from Vermont and Kansas.
	Acting upon these fundamental canons, and in
accordance with the acts of Congress,
the commission has from time to time,
in official reports and otherwise, assured the Mor-
mon people that the government of the United 
States had no design to coerce them concerning
their church membership or their religious opin-
ions; and that all that was required; and all that
could rightfully be required, was that they
should come within the laws and abandon the
practice of polygamy. For example, in the com-
mission's first annual report, of November 17, 
1882, it said: "the legislation of Congress as we
understand it is not enacted against the religion of
any portion of the people of this territory. The
law under which we are acting is directed against
the crime of polygamy."
	These gentlemen give their ideas concerning plu-
ral marriage and its effects, which are entirely dis-
proved by facts as they exist here, but as it is not
expected that those outside the principles of the
faith of the Church can comprehend this higher
order of marriage as the Latter-day Saints do, it
is not strange that they should agree with other
writers upon the subject. Still men spending so
much time in the midst of this people, if they
were freefrom prejudice and disposed to investigate
carefully would be likely to arrive at different con-
clusions than such as they express in the following
paragraph:
	"In a larger view, polygamy is adjudged by the

[Column 2]
most enlightened nations to be a manifold
evil. It is the parent of caprice, cruelty and
license. It enervates the male and degrades the
female. Socially, politically and physically, it is
corrupting and deteriorating. Despotic in the
family, it is the prototype of despotism in the gov-
ernment. It largely accounts for the differing
characteristic of the Asiatic and European; for
the indolence and feebleness of the one, and the
energy and enterprise of the other. Inferiority is
its badge. In the armed contests of rival civiliza-
tions alike in ancient Greece and modern India,
it succumbed to the superiority of monogamy. It
is at variance with the divine economy if that,
originally God created but one man and one
woman, Adam and Eve, each as the only partner
in wedlock of the other. Logically and as a con-
sequence, it is irreconcilable to the idea of the
marriage covenant as practiced and revered by the
masterful Teuton, Celt and Anglo Saxon.
	In the matter of abolishing "polygamy" by en-
forcing at all hazards the Edmunds-Tucker bill
with all the pains and penalties thereunto apper-
taining, Congress nor the officers of the law have
never considered the cruelties thus in-
flicted upon women and children (leav-
ing men out of the question.) They
do not consider that the plural wife loves
her husband as sincerely and devotedly as the first
wife—that the children are completely robbed of
the parental protection of the father, as far as it is
in the power of Congress to do so. Can it be
possible that these men think seriously of the
broken hearts and ruined homes, and of the
many who have died in consequence? Or do
they deem it so small a matter to enter the sacred
precincts of a loving home, and rend asunder the
most holy ties of husband and wife, who have
solemnly covenanted before God and angels, not
only for time, but for all eternity? There is, how-
ever, a boundary over which they cannot pass, and
where they can have no jurisdiction, nor can they
sit in judgment there on their fellow beings.
	The questions propounded to Judge Zane by 
Hon. John A. McClernand of the Utah Commis-
sion, who, with A. B. Carlton made the Minority
Report to the Secretary of the Interior at Wash-
ington, D. C., are to the point, and the answers
are positive and brief:
	1st. Whether, in your opinion, the existing
laws, diligently and strictly enforced, may be
reasonably relied on to work the cessation of
polygamy as a practice?
	2d. Whether any case originating in the com-
mission of the crime of polygamy since the date
of the Edmunds-Tucker act has come under you
judicial notice?
	3d. Whether, in your opinion, the alternative
provisions of that act extending the electoral
franchise to those complying with their conditions,
and denying it to those not complying with them,
or who are otherwise disqualified, have materially
prompted the present movement for a constitu-
tional inhibition of polygamy.
(Signed.) 	Your Obedient Servant,
				JOHN A. MCCLERNAND.
	To the first question propounded within, I
answer yes.
	To the second question, I answer no.
	To the third question, I answer yes.
	(Signed.)					C. S. ZANE.


