THE “CHURCH SUITS.”

	Congress, at its last session as you
are aware, passed a law entitled “An
Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to
amend Section 5352 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in refer-
ence to bigamy, and for other pur-
poses,” etc.
     Under the 15th and 17th sections of
this law the Perpetual Emigrating
Fund Company and the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are
respectively declared dissolved, and
in this Act it is made the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States
to cause proceedings to be taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah to wind up the affairs of said as-
sociations.
     Pursuant to the duty thus imposed
upon the Attorney General, on the 30th
day of July, 1887, proceedings were be-
gun in said court by the United States
against the Perpetual Emigrating Fund
Company and its trustees, and the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints and its alleged trustees for the
purpose of disposing of the property of
the one and winding up the affairs of the
other: asking in these suits to escheat
to the United States large amounts
of property alleged to be held by these 
two defendants.  At the time of this 
writing nothing has been done in these 
cases further than to appear and an-
swer the complaints.  What the result
of these cases will be, we, of course
cannot now say.  It is proper, how-
ever, that we should speak upon this
important proceeding and let the
Saints know how the cases stand.
	The Perpetual Emigrating Fund
Company, as all of you well know,
was conceived and organized for but
one purpose, namely, to aid the poor of
our people in their humble efforts to
gather with their brethren.  It has
been for this charitable purpose, the
object of the generous bounty of the
Latter-day Saints, but at no time in 

[Column 2]
its history has it owned any real es-
tate, or any personal property, save
sufficient for its absolute needs each
succeeding year.  The Church on the
other hand has been the owner of
property, the gifts and bequests of an
earnest, sincere people, made for the
purpose of aiding in the propagation
of the Gospel of our Savior
Jesus Christ.  The effort now being 
made by our government to dissolve
or wind up these associations and
escheat their property, is the first of
the kind in the history of our people,
and is believed to be without histori-
cal precedent in this country.  When
we say we shall watch these cases with
deep interest, the Saints will readily
believe that it is not alone for the
property involved in these suits, but
also for the principles and rights that 
are at stake.

