DON’T, MOTHERS!

	An indignant but sensible friend of mine 
exclaimed the other day, “There should be a
law passed against tiny infants being paraded 
in public.” If mothers with babies three or 
four weeks old are able, with perfect safety for
their future as well as present good to be on
the streets, (which I very much doubt in this
degenerate age) well and good, if you run out
for an hour or two for a “change” but oh, do 
leave the little red, wriggling, writhing, bits
of humanity safe at home in their cosy cribs
away from the glare of sun and changes of
wind and weather.
	The public are not particularly interested in
your individual wonder, and there is such a
feeling of pity expressed for the little martyrs
on exhibition in trailing and multitudious
skirts, elaborate cloaks and fluffy hoods. Do 
let the downy human birdlings stay in the 
home nest until full fledged.		         	L.


GEMS.

	“The seeds of love can never grow but under
the warm and genial influence of kindly feel-
ings and affectionate manners.”

	“I believe in the democracy of the family.
If in this world there is anything splendid, it
is a home where all are equal.”

	The path from an open violation of con
science to a condition of religious doubt, is as
direct as that which leads to heaven.—J. G.
Holland.

	“In life it is difficult to say who do us the
most injury and work the worst mischief, ene-
mies with the worst intentions, or friends with
the best.”

	“An exacting temper is one against which to
guard both one’s own heart and the nature of
those who are under our control and influence.
To give and to allow, to suffer and to bear are
graces more to the purpose of a noble life than
c[-]ld, exacting selfishness, which must have, let
who will go without; which will not yield, let
who will break. It is a disastrous quality
wherewith to go through the world; for it re-
c[-]ives as much pain as it inflicts, and creates
the discomfort it deprecates.”


Princess Louise is said not to be the timid
dainty dame that princesses of the blood are
said to be. She has steered a canoe through
some of the roughest shallows of the Resti-
gouche, and has climbed perilous peaks at
dawn to make sunrise sketches. While in
Canada, she frequently returned from a ride or
drive at an unexpected hour, and, not finding
the groom at his post, rolled up her sleeves and
groomed the pony herself.


