DEAR SISTER WELLS:
*	*	*	All night of the first of
July last the thunder roared and light-
ning flashed but no rain fell.
July 2nd. The sun rose bright and
clear and we soon felt his piercing rays
which rendered the close cars oppres-
sively warm, but we endeavored to for-
get personal discomfort in admiration
of the beautiful passing panorama seen
from the car window. We seem to be
passing through one vast grove of tim-
er with occasional clearings to make
space for fields of corn which seems to
be the principal product of this region.
We have passed through Topeka and
other thriving little towns. An ex-
cursion train has just stopped at a beau-
tiful park, which is thronged with
young people in holiday attire, their
many sports and ringing laughter in-
dicating the lightness of their hearts.
We see them but for a moment, as it
were, and then plunge onward in the
midst of a dense forest of stately trees
of every species, and all ages from the
tiny sapling to the sturdy veteran of
many winters. All so interesting and
beautiful—many of them entwined
with beautiful ivy. In many localities
where the timber has been burnt out
to make room for farms, stumps of
trees are left which are almost invaria-
bly covered with this beautiful flower-
ing vine. One very large tree which

[Column 2]
looked like it might have died from old
age, was entwined even to the very top
with a lovely vine called the “wild oak”
with bell-shaped scarlet flowers thick-
ly interspersed among the green leaves.
How many lessons we learn from na-
ture; here she seemed trying to hide
the deformities and blemishes of her
children by throwing over them this
beautiful raiment, thus making them
even more attractive than originally.
Oh, could we but follow this sublime
example by enveloping the frailties
of others in a munificent mantle of
charity. We are traveling along the
banks of the Missouri river the fleecy
clouds of the summer sky and the
trees, the flowers and foliage are re-
flected in the water every tint true to
life, making a rapidly changing pic-
ture beautiful to behold.
We arrived at Kansas City at 5 45 p.m.
and were met by Mr. Hendersnot the
gentlemanly and courteous agent of
the D. and R. G. line—well known to
many of Utah’s travelers for his con-
siderate attention while sojourning for
a brief or longer period in this remark-
ably growing city. After a thorough
application of a liberal supply of aqua
et saponis, and partaking free-
ly of the contents of the lunch basket,
we felt more comfortable both physic-
ally and spiritually. My manly com-
panions then took a stroll to see the
sights in this, the largest city they had
ever seen. At 9 20 we again resume our
journey, and thanks to the kindness of
Mr. Hendersnot we are ensconced in
an elegant parlor car, each having a
fine reclining chair in which we pass
a very comfortable night.
July 3rd. The Sabbath morn dawned,
but rather cloudy, with a few rain-
drops falling, which served to enhance
the beauty of the scene the foliage and
flowers look so bright and clear show-
ing up the varied tints so beautifully.
We traveled for many miles
along the banks of the Spring
River in Missouri—that land
where the Saints suffered so many
trials and persecutions. I think the
most poetic imagination could not de-
pict a more romantic picture. The
pure clear water at times moving
silently and placidly beneath the
spreading branches of the ivy-clad oak.
at other points it forms cascades and
miniature Niagaria’s as it dashes over
rocks or fallen trees with musical
echoes that are heard even above the
harsher notes of the swiftly moving
train. Flowers too, nature’s fairest
gems are peeping through the luxuri-
ant grass that covers the moistened
banks—occasionally a stray sunbeam
causes the dewdrops on the leaves to
sparkle like myriads of diamonds. The
oldtime grapevine swings are here
formed by nature, where we see many
trees fallen by age covered with sweet
moss and lichen, nature here seeking
to hide deformities an example that,
even her higher species would do well
to imitate.
We are now traveling through the
fertile region of Arkansas timber and
vegetation seems to grow almost spon-
taneously, corn and cotton seem to be
the principal products. Whole groves
of timber are burned down to make
room for cornfields, trees are cut down
and left to decay by the change of time.
I cannot but experience regret that
this superfluity cannot be utilized for
those who live in sage brush and sandy
regions.
At 4 45 o’clock we reach Memphis
where the whole train passed across
the Mississippi River on the ferry boat
to South Memphis, a large old fashioned,
city mostly inhabited by negroes. We
were switched around from the main
depot to the “Union” a transaction
which occupied about an hour’s time
but gave us an opportunity to see
something of the city. How strange
to see the colored element predominat-
ing. Scarcely a white face can be seen,
when they see it, it is only
as overseers or superintendents
for the manual labor seems
to be all done by the negroes. We again
resume our journey and are being
carried swiftly across tbe State of
Tennessee. In the evening we saw a
demonstration of Southern character;
a man promptly put off the train for us-
ing abusive language to the conductor.
The man in question was under the in-
fluence of liquor and had annoyed
many of the passengers in fact the re-
pose of all on the train was disturbed
for he went from one car to another
shouting and staggering about, so that
his ejection was a source of relief to
all and we afterward obtained some
rest.
