INTRODUCTORY.

Dear Brethren and Sisters:
	It appears proper, at this Fifty-eighth
Semi-annual Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
that an Epistle should be addressed to
the members of the Church, in con-
formity with the custom which has
been observed at the past five General
Conferences.
DEATH OF PRESIDENT TAYLOR.
	As some of the Apostles are pre-
vented, by circumstances well known
to the Saints, from appearing in pub-
lic, the Church will naturally look for
some expression from them concern-
ing their feelings and hopes respecting
the work of our God. Especially at the
present time is deep interest felt in the
utterances of the Apostles, because of
the loss which the Church has sus-
tained in the death of PRESIDENT JOHN
TAYLOR. Twice before has the Church
mourned the death of its President,
and each time the event has produced
a profound impression upon its mem-
bers. In this instance this sad event
is invested with more significance than
it would have been had it occurred in
the ordinary way. President Taylor
died in exile. For about two years
and a half he had been compelled to
live in seclusion, and to refrain from
all public association with the people
whom he loved more than he did life.
	Through his decease the Church is
called the third time to mourn the de-
parture of the man who has stood as
its President and as the Prophet, Seer
and Revelator to this generation. The
experience which the Saints have
gained in passing through these trials
has been of exceeding value to them.
They have learned that God can take
care of his own work, and that they
need not worry nor yield to anxiety or
doubt concerning its management.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph there were pretenders who as-
serted that they had the right to take
his place at the head of the Church.
Some were deceived by their preten-
sions, not being familiar with the or-
der of the Priesthood.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
APOSTLES.
	For some time before his death the
Prophet Joseph was inspired of the
Lord to anticipate his own departure
from earthly scenes. This was shown
in various ways; but especially in the
great anxiety which he displayed to
bestow upon the Twelve Apostles all
the keys and authority of the Holy
Priesthood which he had received. He
declared in private and in public that
they were equipped and fully qualified,
and that he had rolled the kingdom of
God on to the shoulders of the Twelve
Apostles.
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S PERSONAL
TESTIMONY.
	I, Wilford Woodruff, being the last
man living in the flesh who was pres-
ent upon that occasion feel it a duty I
owe to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, to the House of
Israel, and to the whole world to bear
this my last testimony to all nations,
that in the winter of 1843-4, Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of God, called the
Twelve Apostles together in the City
of Nauvoo, and spent many days with
us in giving us our endowments, and
teaching us those glorious principles
which God had revealed to him. And
upon one occasion he stood upon his
feet in our midst for nearly three
hours declaring unto us the great and
last dispensation which God had set
His hand to perform upon the earth in
these last days. The room was filled
as if with consuming fire; the Prophet

[Column 2]

was clothed upon with much of the
power of God, and his face shone and
was transparently clear, and he closed
that speech, never-to-be-forgotten in
time or in eternity, with the following
language:
	"Brethren, I have had great sorrow
of heart for fear that I might be taken
from the earth with the keys of the
Kingdom of God upon me, without
sealing them upon the heads of other
men. God has sealed upon my head
all the keys of the Kingdom of God
necessary for organizing and build-
ing up of the Church, Zion, and
Kingdom of God upon the earth, and
to prepare the Saints for the coming
of the Son of Man. Now, brethren, I
thank God I have lived to see the day
that I have been enabled to give you
your endowments, and I have now
sealed upon your heads all the powers
of the Aaronic and Melchisedek Priest-
hoods and Apostleship, with all the 
keys and powers thereof, which God
has sealed upon me; and I now roll off
all the labor, burden and care of this
Church and Kingdom of God upon
your shoulders, and I now command
you in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ to round up your shoulders,and
bear off this Church and Kingdom of
God before heaven and earth, and be-
fore God, angels and men; and if you
don't do it you will be damned."
	And the same spirit that filled the 
room at that time burns in my bosom
while I record this testimony, and the
Prophet of God appointed no one else
but the Twelve Apostles to stand at
the head of the Church and direct its
affairs.
THE PRESIDENCY IN THE APOSTLES.
	When the Prophet Joseph had
passed away by foul assassination,
those who possessed the Spirit of God
and were living in close communion 
with it, knew the voice of the true
shepherd and were not deceived by the
claims of men who pretended to have 
authority. The body of the Church
followed the leadership of those whom
God had chosen, and whom His ser-
vant Joseph had been instructed to
prepare for this great responsibility.
The Twelve Apostles, with President
Brigham Young as their head, became
the presiding council of the Church.
	The lessons which the Church then
learned in regard to the Priesthood,
and the rights of the Priesthood, have
never been forgotten. When Presi-
dent Young was taken from us, there 
was no jar nor division of sentiment
among the Apostles; and among the
people there was scarcely a question as
to where the right of Presidency rest-
ed. President John Taylor took the
position which belonged to him, and
the work of God moved forward with-
out interruption, and with a union and
harmony on the part of all connected
with it, most delightful to wit
ness. He has stood at our head
for nearly ten years, and during that
period he has possessed the gifts and
qualifications which belonged to his
high office and calling. His entire
career is one that can be contemplated
with the utmost satisfaction and pleas
ure by all who love the truth and ad-
mire integrity in those who are called
to be servants of God. From the time
that he was baptized a member of the
Church until his spirit took its flight
from earth, he never wavered in his ad-
vocacy and defense of the principles of
righteousness. Under all the varied
circumstances through which he and
the people of God were called to pass,
in the midst of the deepest trials and
afflictions, his voice was always raised
in tones of encouragement and hope;
and when the storms were the fiercest,
he rose to the occasion and always
displayed undaunted courage and un-
flinching devotion to the Zion of God.
In the providence of God it fell to his
lot to be with the Prophet Joseph and
Patriarch Hyrum when they were
martyred for the truth, and he mingled
his own blood with theirs. Though
severely wounded on that occasion,
he miraculously escaped death. He
was a man whom the Lord loved.
The evidence of this is to be found in

[Column 3]

the fact that He chose him to preside
over His Church at the departure of
His servant Brigham. We feel thank-
ful to God our Eternal Father that we
have been permitted to live with and
enjoy the society of President John
Taylor and be his fellow-laborers.
Our association with him and the
Presidents and Apostles who have
gone before him into the spirit world,
we esteem as a great honor. We take
delight in anticipating the rejoicing
that we shall have when we shall be
permitted to mingle in their society.
	Once more, the responsibility of
presiding over the Church has fallen
upon the Council of the Twelve
Apostles. The Counselors of Presi-
dent Taylor; Brothers George Q.
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, being
members of the Council of the Twelve
Apostles at the time they were chosen
to be members of the First Presidency,
have, since his death, taken their places
again as members of that Council.
	Fifty-seven years and a half have
elapsed since the Church was organ-
ized. In looking around among those
with whom we associate to-day, how
few there are left of those who, under
the Lord, helped to lay the
foundation of this work and were the
companions of the Prophet in the
early labors connected therewith!
To-day there is but one Apostle left
of those who belonged to the Council
of the Apostles during the lifetime of
the Prophet Joseph, or, indeed, at the
time these valleys were first settled.
The other faithful Apostles who were
ordained under the direction of the
Prophet Joseph have all passed behind
the vail. Since the death of President
Young four have joined him in the
other world, and in the same period
six have been ordained as members
of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.
This gives some idea of the changes
which are occurring, and how rapidly
a new generation is taking an active
part in the building up of Zion.
THE LABORS OF THE APOSTLES.
	Those of us who have been at liberty
to travel, have devoted our time to
visiting the various Stakes, and in
meeting with them at their Quarterly
Conferences. Some of us have been
laboring in Mexico, others in Arizona,
besides visiting the Stakes in Idaho
and in Utah. These Quarterly Con-
ferences are attended with excellent
results. The people come together
and receive instructions and coun-
sel upon leading topics, and
much good is derived therefrom.
Though it involves considerable labor
for the Apostles to visit them, yet we
are encouraged in doing so by the ad-
vantages which those visits bring to
the people in keeping them informed
concerning general movements and
counsel. In these labors we have had
much joy and satisfaction, especially
in witnessing the increase of faithful-
ness on the part of the Saints.
THE PATIENCE OF THE SAINTS.
	Though many of the leading men
have been compelled to be absent,
some of them having been incarcer-
ated in prison, the people have, never-
theless, been steadfast, and have
sought with increased diligence to per-
form their duties. The persecution to 
which they have been subjected has
led the people to think and act for
themselves, and not to depend so
much upon others for guidance. This
can not fail to be attended with good
results. It is necessary that all the 
members of the Church should exer-
cise their powers of reason and reflec-
tion and thoroughly understand why
they take the course which God points
out. Intelligent obedience on the part
of His Saints is desired by our Father
in heaven. He has given us our agency
to think and act for ourselves,
on our own volition, to obtain a
testimony for ourselves from Him
concerning the truth of the principles
which He teaches, and then be firm
and unshaken in the performance of
all which is necessary for salvation.
	We have felt great satisfaction in
witnessing the dignity and courage

[Column 4]

which the Saints have exhibited
through the trials of the past three
years. Their conduct has been ad-
mirable. They have displayed great
qualities. The forbearance, patience
and fortitude which they have ex-
hibited are proofs that God has been
with them. Outrages which would
have goaded any other people into acts
of violence have been of frequent oc-
currence. In other communities men
and women would be desperate under
such treatment. But the Lord has
given His people power to control
themselves and peace has been main-
tained. Riots and bloodshed have
been avoided, and even under strong
provocation, when blood was shed, the
community restrained itself. Preju-
dice may prevent our nation and its
rulers from acknowledging, at the
present, how noble the demeanor of
the people has been under
these trying circumstances, and
with the strong provocations
which they have had to indulge in
outbreaks; yet the time will come
when all this will receive its proper
recognition and due credit will be ac-
corded the Latter-day Saints for their
magnanimity and self-control through-
out this entire persecution.
PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS, ETC.
	In the organizations which have
been established among our people in
all our settlements in these moun-
tains, the advancement and training
and benefit of all classes are amply
provided for. Among no people of
whom we know anything have such
provisions been made for the salvation
and care of the members of society of
all ages as among the Latter-day
Saints. If we and our children do not
progress in intelligence and in the
knowledge of all principles pertaining
to life here and life hereafter, it is be-
cause we do not avail ourselves of
those facilities which are placed within
our reach. We have the Primary As-
sociations provided for the benefit of
the young children of our Church, and
their instruction in those simple prin-
ciples which they can understand. We
also have Sunday schools for the
training and education of those of
larger growth. In them they can learn
the doctrines of salvation and the his-
tory of the work of God, and be pre-
pared for greater progress. Then we
have the Young Mens' and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, which have been organized, as 
their names imply, for the development
of the young people of both sexes and
their advancement in every thing that
will qualify them for lives of useful-
ness and honor. But besides these or-
ganizations we have the various coun-
cils of the Priesthood, to some office
in which every young man who is
worthy can be ordained. The young
women, as they increase in years, can
also find a sphere of usefulness in the 
Relief Societies which have been or-
ganized for he purpose of assisting
the Bishops and Counselors and
Teachers of the Wards in caring for
the poor and relieving the wants of the
suffering and distressed. So that by
means of these organizations, which
are of vast interest to us as a people,
every one from early childhood to ma-
turity, can be led forward step by step,
from one degree of knowledge to an-
other until fully qualified to discharge
all the duties of perfected and honor-
able manhood and womanhood.
	So far as we know. the sisters who
have charge of the Primary Associa-
tions are doing a most commendable 
work in arousing interest in the lit-
tle ones and in teaching them
in simple style those lessons
which are adapted to their under-
standings. We hope that in all our
settlements these associations will re-
ceive the constant care and attention
of our wise and judicious sisters. The
seed sown in the hearts of the children
by the instructions imparted there,
will produce in years to come an
abundant harvest that will gladden the
hearts of the Saints who witness it.
OUR SUNDAY SCHOOLS, ETC.
	The progress of the Sunday School


[Column 1]

cause in Zion continues satisfactory,
though undoubtedly somewhat re-
tarded by the enforced absence from
its labors and associations of so many
brethren and sisters who have in
former years taken an active interest
in its welfare. We notice, with pleas-
ure, the constantly increasing number
of schools, teachers and scholars re-
ported by the officers of the Union and
the evident care taken by the presiding
local authorities in our settlements to
have a Sunday School as one of the
first institutions established. We
are also gratified to learn that
in most of the foreign missions
of the Church Sunday Schools
and Improvement Associations
are being organized wherever
practicable. In Great Britain, in Con-
tinental Europe, in New Zealand, and
in the Sandwich Islands, as also in the
branches scattered throughout the
missions in the United States, these
institutions are found contributing
their influence in instructing and
forming the character of the children
of the Latter-day Saints.
	The Mutual Improvement Societies
are also accomplishing great good
throughout our settlements. In connec-
tion with them and the Sunday Schools,
we desire to remind our brethren and
sisters who are engaged in the praise-
worthy labor of fostering these insti-
tutions, that the original design in
organizing Sunday Schools and Im-
provement Societies among us was,
that the children and youth of the
Saints should be made wise in the
principles of the Gospel and their faith
be developed in the revelations of
God. This the officers and teachers
should keep constantly in mind. The
books used should be almost without
exception, the revelations of God as
contained in ancient and modern
Scripture, together with the other
works of the Church. The teachings,
while direct, brief and simple, should
be such as will increase the faith, de-
velop the veneration and love, and
draw out the intelligence of the youth-
ful hearers toward the divine princi-
ples of which by God's grace, we have
been made the custodians. All at-
tempts, however slight, to secularize
these institutions and to change them
so that they will not accomplish the
ends sought for in their creation,
should be discountenanced. The
spirit and teachings of the Gospel
should hold undivided control in all
our ministrations connected with this
cause. In the theological and other
classes all discussions should be
avoided as much as possible on sub-
jects which God in His wisdom has not
yet fully revealed. We know there are
many persons who appear to take more
delight in dwelling upon questions
which are mysterious and cannot very
well, in our present state of knowl-
edge be answered, than they do upon
those subjects which are plain and
simple and essential to present pro-
gress. But the Lord has revealed
so much that we can understand
and that we ought to learn in order to
be useful in the labors devolving upon
us here, that we need not enter into
discussions on subjects which in no
way affect our happiness here or eter-
nal salvation hereafter. In our theo-
logical classes, quorum meetings and
other assemblies, therefore, these de-
batable questions need not be dis-
cussed or be dwelt upon to occupy the
time of the members, to the exclusion
of more profitable topics. In the
Primary Associations, the Sunday
schools and the Mutual Improvement
Associations, singing should receive a
large share of attention. Singing ex-
ercises can be made a great attraction
and also a valuable addition to the ed-
ucation of the young. The interest
that is now taken among us in vocal
and instrumental music is a marked
feature of the times, and this taste
finds increasing opportunities for its
development in the facilities which are
now being furnished to all who desire
its cultivation. Instead of having a
select few act as choirs in these
institutions to do the singing for the
whole, the voices of all should
be united in harmonious [---]
in giving utterance to the feelings of
their hearts in hymns and songs. This
will increase the pleasure of the meet-
ings, and make all feel that they have
an equal interest in worship and re-
joicing.
THE RELIEF SOCIETIES.
	The mission of the Relief Societies
as organized among us, is truly grand
and beneficent. There is no limit to
their labors and usefulness while suf-

[Column 2]

fering and want exist in our midst. To
aid the needy by feeding the hungry
and clothing the destitute is distinc-
tively and peculiarly their mission. In
the energetic performance of their
duty human sympathy and divine
mercy are beautifully harmonized. In
extending relief to the poor, the love
of God and of our fellows is clearly
manifest. It is more praiseworthy for
a relief society to be able to say
"There are none in our Ward in need
of food, raiment or shelter," than to
report thousands of dollars in hand,
while the needs of the poor are un-
supplied.
	These societies have done a vast
amount of good among us, and the
members have been of great service in
assisting the Priesthood in the wards
in caring for the destitute and in sup-
plying the wants of those who have
been in need of help. In these labors
we desire to give them every encour-
agement and to invoke the blessing of
heaven upon them, and all their exer-
tions for the benefit of suffering hu-
manity.
THE CARE OF THE POOR.
	As the winter season is approaching,
it is proper that each Bishop and his
Counselors should take the necessary
steps to properly care for the poor
who live in their wards. They should
call the Relief Societies to their aid in
this labor. The reasonable wants of
the poor should be supplied and the
pangs of poverty and destitution
should be averted. God has greatly
blessed us in the fruits of our fields
and gardens, in our flocks and herds,
and in giving us comfortable habita-
tions and means to sustain ourselves,
and we should always remember the
words of the Apostle James: "Pure
religion and undefiled before God and
the Father is this, to visit the father-
less and widows in their affliction, and
to keep himself unspotted from the
world."
	While it has always been the
policy of our people to encourage in-
dustry and to repress idleness in every
form, and to expect all persons to
contribute, according to their ability,
to their own support; still there are
many cases where the aged and the in-
firm, or the unfortunate, cannot, with
the utmost exertion and economy, ob-
tain through their own labors suffi-
cient to sustain themselves. It would
be a great evil among us to encourage
any class in living upon the benevo-
lence of the community. No system
of begging should be permitted.
Those able to work should be fur-
nished employment. Persons who are
properly disposed will be glad to ob-
tain it in preference to being fed with
the bread of charity; and all should
be encouraged to labor according to
their strength. This policy, if wisely
pursued will prevent pauperism, de-
velop self exertion and confidence, and
produce self-respect. It is a cause
of great pleasure to think that beg-
gary is unknown throughout our set-
tlements There is no need for any
one, however destitute, to publicly
solicit alms. But while this is the
case, the sensitive and those who
shrink from asking aid, who conceal,
in some instances, their poverty,
should be carefully looked after by the
Relief Societies under the direction of
the Bishops of the wards, so that there
may be no individual in any of our
wards suffering for the want of food or
any other article necessary to sustain
or preserve life. The community whose
hearts are open to the cries of distress,
who are ready to administer of the
substance which the Lord gives them
to relieve their fellow creatures, may
always depend upon the favor of the
Lord, for he loves those who are kind
to their fellow-men, and who admin-
ister to their necessities, whose hearts
are tender, and who readily respond to
applications of this character which
are made upon them, or who antici-
pate them by giving freely to the desti-
tute.
FAST OFFERINGS.
	In some of our wards there is not
proper care taken in the collection of
the last offerings of the people. The
first Thursday in the month has been
set apart in the Church as a day of
fasting and of prayer. That day should
be strictly observed. Fast offerings
should be brought with a liberal hand
to the Bishop of each ward, that he
may be prepared to supply those who
are dependent upon the ward for sus-
tenance. Some wards require consid-
erable aid from the Church to help
sustain their poor, because their own

[Column 3]

fast offerings do not supply them;
while sometimes in the same Stake
there are other wards where there are
few, if any, dependent poor. Presidents
of Stakes should make arrangements
with the Bishops of the last named
wards to transfer their fast offerings
to the Bishop of some contiguous
ward which has more poor within its
borders than its own fast offerings
will supply. In this way all the peo-
ple can have an equal opportunity of
doing their duty to the poor.
THE LESSONS OF LIBERALITY.
	Experience has abundantly proved
that those who are attentive to those
and all other duties required by the
Lord receive His blessing. God does
bless those who devote themselves
with singleness of purpose to His
work. If proof of this were needed,
one has only to notice the condition of
Elders in the various settlements who
have spent years of their lives upon
missions. Though their home affairs
may have been left to the care of their
wives and children, they are not dis-
tinguished by their poverty from their
fellow-servants who have remained at
home.
	We have only to look around us to
satisfy ourselves also, that those who
are generous in contributing to God's
work are favored of the Lord. This
was the experience of ancient Israel,
and it is our experience. Yet in re-
gard to voluntary donations there is
too much carelessness, notwithstand-
ing all the precious promises con-
nected therewith. The Saints should
be reminded of the obligation which
rests upon them. Our children, also,
should be taught this duty, that it may
become a fixed habit with them to
punctually attend to these matters.
Those who have strictly observed
these requirements can testify to the
great pleasure and many rewards they
have received from their observance.
	This law of liberality appears to be
one of the safeguards which the Lord
has adopted to avert from his people
the evil consequences which follow
the possession of wealth. He has told
us that the riches of the earth are His
to give; but He has warned us to be-
ware of pride, lest we become as the
Nephites of old. We know the ruin it
wrought for them, and we should
spare no precaution to prevent wealth
having a disastrous effect upon us.
Many can endure poverty and be hum-
ble and live near the Lord who cannot
bear riches. They become lifted up in
pride and become covetous, and for-
get their God. Those, however, who
remember constantly the teachings of
the Lord concerning the earth and its
inhabitants, and who contribute of the
means which the Lord gives them to
assist the poor and help carry forward
the work of God, exercise a check upon
themselves and give Satan less power
to lead them astray. Under the pres-
ent system of affairs, those who ac-
cumulate wealth and are able to sup-
ply themselves and their families with
luxuries and advantages that are de-
nied their neighbors, are in danger of
becoming separated from the bulk of
the people and forming a distinct
class. But the day will come when a
more perfect order will be introduced.
Then it will be said there are no poor
and no rich in Zion—that is, we shall
not be divided into classes, but shall
all possess everything of this charac-
ter necessary for our comfort and hap-
piness. But until then, if we wish our
families and ourselves to remain Lat-
ter-day Saints, we must be especially
careful to guard against the deceitful-
ness of richers.
THE DUTIES OF THE SAINTS.
	The great labor which devolves upon
us, as members of the Church, is to
build up Zion. God has founded Zion,
and we should seek to extend its bene-
fits and blessings unto all mankind. It
should be our constant care to do
nothing that will weaken its influence
or power or retard its growth in the
earth. This we should constantly im-
press also, upon our children, that
they may grow up filled with an abid-
ing love for the work of God.
	There has been too much neglect
on this point. Many have pursued a
short-sighted, selfish policy; and have
worked to that which they believed
was their own individual advantage
without regard to the effect their ac-
tion would have upon the work of God.
Their eyes have not been single to His
glory. Such a disposition has proved
a snare to those who have indulged in
it; they have wrought injury to them-

[Column 4]

selves, not to mention the effect their
conduct has had upon Zion.
THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF MARRIAGE.
	The Lord has informed us that mar-
riage is ordained of God unto man.
The institution of marriage, in some
communities of which we read, is fall-
ing almost into disrepute. It is al-
leged that there is a growing tendency
in this direction among us. The cause
is doubtless, traceable to the in-
crease of wealth and the dis-
inclination of young men to take
upon them the burdens of a wife and
family. As we depart from the sim-
plicity of early days, we may naturally
expect that this tendency will increase
as young men may be restrained from
offering marriage to young ladies un-
less they can give them something like
as comfortable a home as they enjoy
under their parents' roof. Extrava-
gant or luxuriant habits or training on
the part of the girls will also have the
effect to deter young men from marry-
ing. Care should be taken by every
person of influence to counteract this
tendency, and to set before the rising
generation the advantages which fol-
low well-arranged marriages. No
community can prosper and maintain
a high standard of morality where
there is a large percentage of unmar-
ried young men and young women.
We should deplore the increase of
such a class among us, and all honor-
able means should be used to prevent
its existence. The young of both
sexes should be taught that it is not
necessary to happiness in marriage to
be in the possession of wealth. In
this country an industrious, economi-
cal married couple can soon surround
themselves with all the conveniences
and comforts essential to life and hap-
piness. The satisfaction each will
have in after years in the enjoyment
of the fruits of their joint industry and
thrift will amply repay them for any in-
conveniences or privations they may
have been subjected to in the early
days of their married life. The com-
forts thus accumulated will be doubly
sweetened unto them by the recollec-
tion of their exertions in common to
procure them. No rightly constituted
and educated young woman will refuse
an offer of marriage from a worthy, in
dustrious young man for no other rea-
son than that he is not able to surround
her at first with the comforts which
she may think she ought to have.
Young men, who have a due share of
the qualities which women esteem in
a husband, need not be afraid that girls
of that kind will refuse them, because
they may not be well endowed with
this world's goods. They will cheer-
fully bear their part of the burdens of
life without repining when confident of
the love and supporting and guiding
hand of their husbands.
AGAINST INCURRING DEBT.
	We feel led to caution the Latter-
day Saints against forming the bad
habit of incurring debt and taking
upon themselves obligations which fre-
quently burden them heavier than they
can bear, and lead to the loss of their
 homes and other possessions. We know
it is the fashion of the age to use credit
to the utmost limit, and it is custom-
ary for nations, states, counties and
cities to borrow money, issue bonds
and thus load themselves with taxes
to such an extent that large numbers
of the people are prevented from own-
ing land or even the houses which they
occupy. Thus the masses become ten-
ants and have to pay rent for land and
shelter. This is a great evil and one
that we,as a people and as individuals,
should carefully shun. Our business
should be done, as much as possible,
on the principle of paying for that
which we purchase, and our needs
should be brought within the limit of
our resources. The disposition to
speculate and to take chances upon
ventures of one kind and another
should be repressed. There are many
people who have been rendered home-
less in our Territory by the neglect of
this precaution. To raise funds to in-
vest in some scheme which has ap-
peared promising they have mortgaged
their homes, only too often, to be dis-
appointed and to find themselves with-
out a place of shelter for themselves
and their families. All this is wrong.
If the penalty for such unwisdom fell
upon the one through whose acts and
influence it is brought about, the con-
sequences would not be so deplorable;
but very frequently families suffer
and the bad results are widely
felt. We, therefore, repeat our
counsel to the Latter-day Saints,


[Column 1]
to shun debt. Be content with mod-
erate gains, and be not misled by illu-
sory hopes of acquiring wealth. Re-
member the saying of the wise man:
“But he that hasteth to get rich
shall not be innocent.” Let our chil-
dren also be taught habits of economy,
and not to indulge in tastes which
they cannot gratify without running in
debt.
 ZION SHALL NOT BE REMOVED.
	We have been favored, as no other 
people have, with wise counsels.
Their extent and variety are immeas-
urable. They cover every department
of human life. So far as we have ob-
served them; prosperity and happiness
have been the results. Whatever
difficulties we may have to contend
with to-day are due, if not wholly, at
least in great part, to our disregard of
them. Is not this the experience and 
testimony of all the faithful Saints
who have watched the progress of
events among us? Had we observed
these counsels, how many of the evils
from which we now suffer would
never have been known among us!
Our neglect of them has brought its
punishment, and the faithful can see 
it. But shall we not profit by the ex-
perience of the past and act more wise-
ly in the future? As the Lord has said
(Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 90, ver.
36 37),
	“But verily I say unto you, that I, the
Lord, will contend with Zion, and plead
with her strong ones, and chasten her until
she overcomes and is clean before me: For
she shall not be removed out of her place,
I, the Lord, have spoken it.”
	We should begin to understand that
God’s ways are infinitely superior to
our ways, and that His counsels, 
though they may seem to call for
sacrifice, are always the best and the
safest for us to adopt and carry out.
Thousands among us can testify to the
truth of this from individual experi-
ence. These thousands should com-
bine and create a public opinion in fa-
vor of obedience to the counsel of
heaven that will have its proper effect
upon our children and the inexperi-
enced among us.
	THE GLORY WILL BE THE LORD’S.
	We also should learn this great
truth, that God will have all the glory
and honor for the establishment of
His Church and Kingdom on the 
earth. Man cannot claim it in this or
any other age of the world. Nothing
but the power of God could have
brought forth the fullness of the Gos-
pel, organized the Church, gathered
His people to Zion in fulfillment of
revelation and performed the work
which has been accomplished. There-
fore, as Latter-day Saints, we are
obliged to acknowledge the hand of
God in all the blessings we enjoy.
	THE CONDUCT OF OUR LIVES.
	It should be the aim of all the mem-
bers of the Church to carry out prac-
tically in their lives the principles of
the Gospel. In no way can we better
convince the world of their truth than
in showing in our acts and dealings
with one another and with
mankind the elevating effect they 
have upon us. We make high profes-
sions, and there should be such a high
standard of purity of life among us as
to correspond with these professions.
Our children should be impressed with
this, and be taught that the name of
Saint is so holy that they only who
are pure in heart can claim it.
  If our religion does not lead us to
love our God and our fellow man and
to deal justly and uprightly with all 
men, then our profession of it is vain.
The Apostle says:
  “If a man say, I love God, and hateth his
brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not
his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he
love God whom he hath not seen?”
  We can best exemplify our love for
our God by living our religion. It is
vain to profess a love for God while
speaking evil of or doing wrong to His
children. The sacred covenants we
have made with Him strictly impose
upon us the duties we owe to one
another; and the great office of religion
is to teach us how to perform those
duties so as to produce the greatest
happiness for ourselves and for our
fellow-beings. When the obligations
of our religion are observed, no words
are spoken or acts are committed that
would injure a neighbor. If the Lat-
ter day Saints lived as they should do,
and as their religion teaches 
them to do, there would be
no feeling in any breast but

[Column 2]
that of brotherly and sisterly affection
and love. Backbiting and evil-speak-
ing would have no existence among
us; but peace and love and good will
would reign in all our hearts and hab-
itations and settlements. We would
be the happiest people on the face of
the earth, and the blessing and peace
of Heaven would rest upon us and 
upon all that belongs to us.
  If there be unhappiness and heart-
burnings and quarrelings and hatreds
among us, they exist because we do
not observe the religion which we pro-
fess. They are not its fruits. Where
these evils exist there is a crying ne-
cessity for repentance. If any feel in-
jured by the words or acts of their
brethren or sisters, the Gospel points
out and furnishes the way by which
this injury may be repaired. Instead
of talking about this to others they
should go to the person or persons
who have done the wrong and make
their feelings known. If satisfaction 
is then made, that ought to end the
matter; but if not, it can be reported 
to the proper officers of the Church for
them to take the necessary steps to
terminate the difficulties. In this way 
animosities and disunion can be pre-
vented and confidence be maintained.
	PARTAKING OF THE SACRAMENT.
	As Latter-day Saints, it is our gen-
eral custom to partake of the 
sacrament once a week. If
the teachings of our Lord, 
in remembrance of whom we observe 
this sacred ordinance, be regarded, no
one who has trespassed can be per-
mitted to share in it until he has made
reconciliation. It is the express com-
mandment of the Lord Jesus that no
one shall be permitted to partake of
His flesh and blood unworthily. A
more perfect system to prevent the
existence of improper feelings and
wrongs among brethren and sisters
can not be imagined. It the Saints do 
their duty, difficulties do not remained
unsettled beyond the Lord’s day when
they assemble to eat and drink in re-
membrance of Him.
	TEMPLE WORK.
	Notwithstanding the difficulties that
the Saints have had to contend with of 
late, they have pursued their labors in
every direction with unabated zeal.
This is particularly noticeable in their
attendance at the Temples. The wish
to avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties for attending to the ordinances for
themselves and their deceased friends
has; if anything, increased, and those
employed in these sacred buildings
have their time fully occupied in per-
formng their duties there. It is evi-
dent that the Latter-day Saints ap-
preciate the blessings to be obtained
through Temple work. When we
reflect that we have two buildings of 
this character already completed,
furnishing abundant facilities for
all who choose to go there to
obtain the ordinaces of God’s
house for themselves and for
those in whose salvation they take
so deep an interest, and that we have
another temple at Manti nearing com-
pletion, and one in Salt Lake City,
which we hope to see finished before
ong, our hearts are filled with glad-
ness and we cannot refrain from prais-
ing our God for His goodness unto His
people in permitting them, notwith-
standing the opposition and many dif-
ficulties they have had to contend
with, to erect such structures and to 
dedicate them, according to the pat-
tern He has given for these sacred
uses.
	No right feeling Latter-day Saint
can think upon this subject without
being thrilled with heavenly joy for
what God has done for us in our gener-
ation, furnishing us, as He has done,
with every facility to prepare us, our
posterity and our ancestors for that
eternal world which lies beyond the
present life. The Latter-day Siants
are, in truth, a highly favored people,
and praise to God should ascend from
every heart and habitation in our land
for the great mercy and goodness
which He has shown unto us. He has
made us promises of the most precious
character, and he has fulfilled them up
to the present time. We would be the
most ungrateful and unworthy people
that ever lived if, after receiving such
wonerful manifestations of His good-
ness, we slackened in our diligence or
failed in our obedience and devotion
to Him and His great cause.
	FOREIGN MISSIONS
	The treatment which the Elders have 
received in preaching the Gospel

[Column 3]
throughout the Southern States, as
we are informed by President John
Morgan, has been much better of late
than it has been at some other periods.
The Elders are listened to with more
patience and do not meet with so much
of the spirit of mobocracy and un-
reasoning hate. Additions are being 
made to the Church, and those who
emigrate from that region have gener
ally settled in San Luis Valley, Colo-
rado.
	The Elders in the North Western
States under the direction of President
W. M. Palmer, pursue their labors
with undiminished zeal and with mod-
erate success in bringing people into
the Church. These fields of labor
have furnished opportunities for num-
bers of our young men to gain experi-
ence in missionary efforts, and those
who have this privilege return home,
in the most of instances, better quali-
fied to assist the local authorities
where they reside in the labors of the 
ministry.
	In Great Britain the Elders meet
with considerable oppoisition in places, 
principally, however, from apostates.
They find that field a much more dif-
ficult one than it was in former years.
The hearts of the people seem to have
become hardened, and great indiffer-
ence prevails in regard to religion.
Still we learn from President George
Teasdale, who presides at the present
time over the European Mission, that
the Elders who zealously enter into
the labors of the ministry find abund-
ant cause for rejoicing in the success
which attends their exertions.
Throughout the Swiss and German
Mission presided over by Elder Fred
erick Schoenfeld, and the Scandina-
vian Mission presided over by Elder N.
C. Flygare, the Elders, are laboring
also with commendable zeal and with
gratifying results. An effort is being 
made at the present time to preach the
Gospel in Turkey, where Elders Jacob
Sport, J. M. Tanner and F. F. Hintze
have been, and are laboring, and even
the land of Palestine has been visited,
and in the late company of emigrants
which reached this city from Europe,
nine persons were gathered who had
received the Gospel in that 
land, a land hallowed to 
us as the earthly home of 
our Redeemer, and the soil of which
his sacred feet trod.
	On the Sandwich Islands the Elders
are laboring faithfully under the direc-
tion of President William King, and
everything is being done to improve
the condition of that people and to
save them from the destruction which
threatens the extinction of the race.
The plantation at Laie is still main-
tained, and the Elders who have la-
bored and who are still laboring there
enter with spirit into the management
of that property in a way to benefit as
much as possible the native Saints.
The attention of the Elders there is di
rected at present to the Navigator
Islands, where some few years ago 
two native Elders from the Sandwich
Islands were successful in baptizing a
large number of natives and organizing
them into branches. These Islands
have not been visited by any of the 
white Elders, but it is probable that
some of our Elders on the Sandwich
Islands may in the near future make a
visit there. 
	The letters which we receive
from New Zealand where Presi-
dent William Paxman presides,
continue to bring us gratifying intelli-
gence concerning the condition and 
progress of the work there. The
Elders are very successful among the
Maories. Many of the white brethren
have succeeded in acquiring the lan-
guage of that race, which is cognate to
that of the Sandwich Islands, and two of
them, Elders Ezra T. Richards and
Sondra Sanders, Jr, are now en-
gaged, we are informed, in translating
the Book of Mormon into the Maori
language. In Australia the Elders are
also laboring, but it is a much harder
field than among the natives of New
Zealand.
	HOME MANUFACTURERS.
	Frequent reference has been made in 
past teachings and in former Epistles
to the subject of home manufacturers.
It has been, and we feel it still ought
to be, a theme of inexhaustible inter-
est to Zion; yet there remains an im-
mense amount to be done in develop-
ing our resources and furnishing facil-
ities for the employment of the people.
It is pleasing to note the progress
which is being made in some direc-
tions. Our woolen manufacturers are
gaining credit for their excellence in

[Column 4
other communities as well as our own.
But we export considerable wool even
after all our facotries are well sup-
plied. If this could be manufactured
at home, it would add greatly to the 
wealth of our community, not only in
the profits which would accrue from the
use of machinery, but in the employ-
ment it would furnish to many 
of our citizens Besides the manufac-
ture of woolen cloths, there is excel-
lent quality which is placed on the 
market.
	The range of articles which are
manufactured in this Territory is
gradually increasing; and from the
feeling which now prevails we judge
that many more branches will soon be
added to those already in operation.
The manufacture of soaps of various
grades has now become a settled and
paying business. A fine quality of hats
is also made. Boots and shoes and
clothing, glass, white lead, lead 
pipe, native paints, brushes,
paper, printing type, starch,
pearl barley and oatmeal are all manu-
factured in the Territory, and many of
these articles in sufficient quantities
to supply the local demand and to ex-
port to some extent. It is an ecour-
aging feature in the most of these en-
terprises that those engaged in them
are seeking to enlarge their facilities
with the view to increase their produc-
tion. We have a large number of 
children growing up among us who
should be furnished with opportuni-
ties to acquire skill in mechanism,
manufactures, and other pursuits
which are necessary for the comfort
of man. It is not only incumbent upon
parents to seek for avenues of prof-
itable employment for their children,
but it should be kept in view by the 
leading men of the church in all our
settlements. An idle man’s brain, it
is said, is the devil’s workshop, and
no community can prosper and main-
tain a high standard of morality that
does not furnish employment for its 
members. Far better to work for low
wages than not to work at all. But
with proper care, and by putting in
use the experience that many individ-
uals in every settlement possess, there
need be no want of remunerative em-
ployment for the rising generation,
and for others who may come in from 
abroad. It may not always be kept
in mind, yet it is a fact, that any per-
centage of idle persons in a commu-
nity is a direct loss to the whole.
it is unfortunate also for a 
community, when the young
and enterprising are compelled 
to leave it and go elsewhere to find
employment or room for the exercise
of the talent of which they feel them-
selves possessed. Settlements that 
are in this situation will languish and
go to decay, while others that furnish
facilities for employment will become
thrifty and prosperous. The combi-
nation of capital by means of co-op-
eration would, in many instances, en-
able settlements to start branches of
manufacture and conduct them suc-
cessfully. C-imerical schemes, how-
ever, should not be encouraged, as 
their failure destroys confidence and 
makes it more difficult to obtain aid
for worthy enterprises which might be
made successful. Where co-opera-
tion has failed among us, it has not
been because of the principle is defect-
ive, but because of mismanagement,
sometimes from ignorance and care-
lessness, and sometimes, perhaps, from
selfishness.
	Our coutnry abounds in useful ele-
ments. We have a fertile soil, when
properly cultivated, and an admirable
climate. Grains, fruits, and vegeta-
bles, as well as all kinds of stock, can
be raised here, and as superior in
quality as can be found anywhere on
the earth. Care should be taken to
raised the very best varieties. Our 
horses, cattle, sheep, and poultry, as 
well as our grains, and fruits, and
vegetables, should be of the very 
best kinds, and no pains should be
spared to keep them pure. Our sus-
tem of irrigation does not admit
of the cultivation of large areas of 
land. Our farms are moderate in ex-
tent. This being the case, they should
be cultivated in the most approved
style, and the whole business con-
nected with a farm should be con-
ducted in a manner to bring the best
results. As facilities for education
increase, there undoubtably will be a
marked imporvment in the manage-
ment of all these branches of busi-
ness. 	
	PRACTICAL EDUCATION.
	It is gratifying to notice the interest


[Column 1]
that is being taken among us in educa-
tion; yet there is great room for im-
provement.  As the taste for what may 
be called book-learning increases,
manual labor should not be neglected.
The education of the mind and the 
education of the body should go hand
in hand.  A skillful brain should be
joined with a skillful hand.  Manual
labor should be dignified among us
and always be made honorable.  The
tendency, which is too common in 
these days, for young men to get a 
smattering of education and then
think themselves unsuited for
mechanical or other laborious pur-
suits is one that should not be allowed
to grow among us.  Of course it is
necessary as society is now organized,
that the professions, as they are
termed, should receive attention.  But
every one should make it a matter of
pride to be a producer, and not a 
consumer alone.  Our children should
be taught to sustain themselves by
their own industry and skill, and not
only to do this, but to help sustain
others, and that to do this by honest
toil is one of the most honorable 
means which God has furnished to his
children here on the earth.  The sub
ject of the proper education of the
youth of Zion is one of the greatest
importance.
	President Brigham Young during his 
lifetime established schools in Provo
and Logan, where the principles of the
Gospel have been taught in connection
with other branches of education, and
more recently similar schools have
been commenced, and conducted with
marked success; in Salt Lake, Beaver
and Fillmore Cities.
     The good results arising from teach-
ings received in the Provo and Logan
Academies are very apparent and
pleasing to all who have the interests 
of the young at heart, and we regret
that such institutions are so limited in 
number.
	Through the indefatigable labors of
Professors Karl G. Maeser, J. Z. Stew-
art and their associates, these schools
have done, and are now doing, a great
work in educational advancement, by
instilling a knowledge of the princi-
ples of the Gospel of life and salva-
tion into the minds of our children,
upon whose shoulders the Kingdom of
God must rest in the near future.
     We trust it will not be long before
schools of this kind will be established
in every city and village where the 
Latter-day Saints reside.  In the 
meantime, however, the Saints should
not fail to avail themselves of the
privileges that are now offered them in
the Provo, Logan, Beaver, Fillmore,
and Salt Lake Academies.

