NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Emily Faithful, writing on the coming
conference to consider the industrial position of
women, urges that three points must be in-
sisted upon:—First  The need of definite
training for girls. Second. The best work,
at fair market price must be given. Third.
Social prejudices must be abandoned, and
ladies must be encouraged to go into business.

	“I wonder what my great-grandfather
would say to me if he could come back to
earth,” said a young lady lawyer to a news-
paper reporter recently. “He was so angry
with my grandmother when he discovered that
she had gone beyond the four fundamental
rules in arithmetic, that he kept her shut up
for a week on a diet of bread and water, and
commanded her to let all books alone forever,
except the Bible. He thought it a disgrace,
poor man, that a daughter of his should be
willing to pursue such masculine studies, and
when she confessed that she liked to do sums
in the Rule of Three, he felt justified in resort-
ing to severe measures to check such unnatural
propensities. If he could see two of his great-
granddaughters practicing medicine and one
aspiring to law, he would think that grand-
mother’s love of study had broken out in a
worse form in this generation. What ghostly
flagellations he would bestow!” and she
laughed, shrugging her shoulders.

	According to Prof. Brinton, of the Academy
of Natural science, many important traces of
early man are to be discovered in the Mis-
sissippi Valley. Near St. Paul begins the modi-
fied glacial drift of an intermediate glacial
period. Fifteen feet below the surface in it are
found stone implements and remains of work-
shops. In Patagonia remains of fires, tools,
and implements of bone are found. These
things indicate a somewhat advanced stage of
civilization and were left by men who lived
here before the horse was extinct. From these
things it is inferred that a race, with race types
and characteristics, existed here as early, if
not earlier, than elsewhere on the globe. The
characteristics of the American race is color
ranging from copper to white; stiff hair and
little of it; foreheads retreating, compressed at
the sides, and low, eyes straight, noses dissimilar,
mouths large, chin round, small and regular,
expression hard and unpleasant. The sexes
are much alike in appearance, when they do
not wear garments fashioned for the purpose of
distinguishing them. The higher the develop-
ment of man, the more pronounced is the dis-
tinction between the sexes.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Aug. 30, 1887, as follows:
	Kate W. Eubank, Rutherford, Cal., Com-
bined Trunk and Bureau.
	Clementina J. M. Hayna, St. Louis, Mo.,
Furnace.
	Mary Jory, Salem, Ore., Pie-holder.


Amelia H. Lindsay, Pittsburg, Pa., Rotary
Engine.
	Nannie M. Showman, Newark, O., Combined 
Hair-curler and Crimper.	
	Mary S. Snow, Sacramento, Cal., Umbrella
or Parasol.

	Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending September 20, 1887, as fol-
lows:
	Anna E. Barber, Brodhead, Wis., Fruit-pre-
server.
	Caroline Haycock, Baltimore, Md., Cough
Remedy.
	Alice E. Mendenhall, Nisolia. Ky., Skim-,
ming Device for Milk-can.
	Julia Reinhardt, New York, N. Y., Skirt-
lining.


