Marshalling Our Forces for Home Safety Nellie O. Parker Member of Relief Society General Board Chairman Home Division, Utah Safety Council WHILE the best of the country's young manhood are giving their lives that we here at home may be safe and free, the accident casualties every year in our homes are more than 35,000 killed and 120,000 permanently injured, to no purpose and without good reason.
More than half of all accidents occur in and around the homes, and the greatest percentage of the victims are children under five and elderly people over sixty-five years of age. They are victims of ignorance, of carelessness, recklessness or neglect. Accidents do not happen, they are caused by some unsafe practice or condition.
The first National Home Farm Safety Conference was held in Chicago, February 17-18, 1942, to focus attention on the seriousness of the nation's home and farm accident situation, and to afford an opportunity for an open discussion of the problem so that plans could be made for a nation-wide safety program. As a result of this study, the Home and Farm Safety divisions were added to the National Safety Council program. Since then, a majority of the states have included a home and a farm safety division in their safety organizations.
Utah has kept in step with the na-
Traffic Safety Council was organized in 1939. In 1942, the State ranked second to Oregon in the Western Division for the best traffic safety record, and, in 1943, received the national grand award in the traffic safety contest.
The Utah Safety Council was formed May 19, 1944. Its scope was expanded to include the activities of the Utah Traffic Safety Council, the Women's Safety Council of Utah, and all other groups working in the interest of safety. The consolidation of these groups work under one head was made in the interest of efficiency and against duplication of effort.
The Home Division is new in the State and, as in the National Council, is in the pioneer stages of its plans.
A great nation-wide program has been inaugurated in which all our forces are harnessed to bring a safety consciousness to all Americans. The greatest stress is being placed on education and engineering, two of the three "E's" of safety. Enforcement, the third factor, cannot be used in the home as in industry and traffic.
This program of education should disseminate the knowledge of the safe use of the many products of this machine age that have found their way into our daily living. Individuals must be made conscious of unsafe conditions and unsafe practices.
Page 162 MARSHALLING OUR FORCES FOR HOME SAFETY 163. They should be awakened to a personal responsibility in guarding their own safety as well as that of others, and should exert every energy to assure their freedom from accidental injury. The importance of teaching safety in the home is being recognized as the first requisite in the safety program. It is believed that a child brought up in an atmosphere of safety will not be content with unsafe conditions and practices in later years, and that this training wiH have a profound influence on safety problems in general?in the home, on the highway, in industry. To assist in the education for home safety, the Red Cross has added another service?courses of instruction in accident prevention. It is now offering a course "Home Accident Prevention." Tliere is need, at present, for certified teachers to impart this knowledge to all groups of people. Those who take and fulfill all the requirements of this course can become certified teachers. It is an opportunity to help conserve human life, and also to destroy one of the potent forces which lead to distress and suffering. The Home Division of the Utah Safety Council is sponsoring classes in home accident prevention as a part of its program of education for home safety. It is issuing an appeal to people, in all groups and walks of life, to take advantage of the course not only for the benefit to themselves in their own homes, but also for the opportunity it gives them to do a fine human service. The Home Division is also planning for a designated week from April 8-14 wherein home safety can be specifically emphasized by all means available?by radio, by the press, by programs in churches, clubs, and schools, and by exhibits and surveys. It is hoped that by these activities a public awareness to the existence of hazards may be awakened, and a general desire to remove or avoid them be stimulated. The world would be a much better place in which to live if accidents could be prevented and, by marshalling all our forces to this end, much can be accomplished. 10 A LITTLE GIRL Jo Adelaide Stock Joy fills my heart, sweet, when I see The precious promises in thee. Thou art to me the soft perfume That sleeps within a summer's bloom. Thou art a song as masters sing Of love and youth and stars and spring; Thou art the bubbling of a fount; The cap of snow upon the mount. Thou art the gentleness of rain; Thou art the sweetness after pain; O thou'rt laughter after sorrow, Promise of the new tomorrow. Thou art dawning after dark. And the carol which a lark Showers down like unto leaven, On its way to God and heaven!