"I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doctrine and Covenants 82:10.)
LARKIN MORTUARIES
Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523
Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL 29, NO 7 JULY, 1942 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Supplies NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, placecards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
MARKERS FOR CENTENNIAL TREES
Cast bronze markers for Relief Society centennial memorial trees are still available. These markers have been especially made for this purpose and bear the inscription "Relief Society Centennial Tree?1942" in raised letters. The markers are three inches in diameter and attached to a 12-inch pipe made to be imbedded in concrete so that they cannot be pried loose.
Price $2.25, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy. Postpaid.
IN THY FORM. Words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen. 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK
The third edition of the RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK contains the two new centennial songs listed above and a new hymn, "O Father, Keep Us We Pray." The price of the new book including the three new songs is $1.00, postpaid.
BINDER FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This is a substantial, well-made binder, into which a total of twelve single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title Relief Society Magazine stamped in gold. This binder is a great convenience to Relief Society officers, class leaders, and other subscribers desiring to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together.
Price 75c, postpaid.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10. Postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
"A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY"
A special centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board during July. This valuable book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to the close of its first century, March 17, 1942. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, "A Centenary of Relief Society," and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible?fifty cents per copy. Postpaid?whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna S. Barlow
Ethel B. Andrew
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Pauline T. Pingree
Leda T. Jensen
Vivian R. McConkie
Mary G. Judd
Gertrude R. Garff
Rae B. Barker
Priscilla L. Evans
Luella N. Adams
Leona F. Wintch
Ann P. Nibley
Florence J. Madsen
Marianne C. Sharp
Nellie O. Parker
Edith S. Elliott
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 JULY 1942 No. 7
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Cover—Mormon Battalion Monument Dr, T. J. Howells 441
Brigham Young's Schoolhouse—Frontispiece 442
Education in Early Utah Dr. L. H. Creer 443
"Long May It Wave" Vesta P. Crawford 450
Preserving Our Homes in Wartime Mark K. Allen 453
In Retrospect—Chapter VII President Amy Brown Lyman 461
Reading for Understanding Harriet P. Johnson 472
Grandmother Found a Way Mabel Harmer 478
The Lure of Melody Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen 486
FICTION
The Century of Light Dorothy Oakley Rea 457
All of Hers and Half of His Caroline Eyring Miner 484
GENERAL FEATURES
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 475
Editorial:
''Wherefore Have We Fasted?"' Belle S. Spafford 476
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 490
Erratum: Martha McBride Knight, 497
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage, Chapter 9 499
Visiting Teachers—Scripture Reading as an Expression of Faith 502
Literature—Why the Bible Should be Studied as Literature 503
Social Science—America, The Land of Promise 507
General Presidents of Relief Society—Emma Hale Smith 511
POETRY
Miracle Belle Watson Anderson 449
Told At Sunset Grace Zenor Pratt 460
A Shirt Tale Alice Morrey Bailey 474
Nocturnal Visitors Olive C. Wehr 483
Worthy To Be Called Friend Gertrude Perry Stanton 485
To The Nauvoo Bell Mabel Jones Gabbott 489
My Son Passes Zina Card Brown 498
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. 248.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 55,500 

Mormon Battalion onuiient T. J. Howells, M. D. HE Mormon Battalion Monument commemorates one of the longest and most difficult infantry marches in history. This Monument, a structure of rare artistic merit, is the work of Gilbert Riswold. It is beautifully located on the Utah State Capitol grounds, and overlooks the great Salt Lake Valley. The Wasatch Mountains make an impressive background. This Monument typifies the 'Spirit of the West," and is unique and original in design. Impressive indeed is the bronze figure of the Mormon soldier mounted on the front of the structure. This rugged individual, poorly equipped, with inadequate supplies, marched 2000 miles over hot desert sands, trackless plains, and through cold mountain passes, from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, at the call of his country and his church. History does not record a march fraught with more dangers and greater hardships. The Mormon Battalion hero was the vanguard of civilization in the West. He possessed a spirit unconquerable, and with complete trust in God, accomplished a seemingly impossible feat. The Mormon Battalion Monument is beautifully executed. It is a delight to tourists and visitors; and today, more than ever before, it is an inspiration to all. Editor's note: The cover photograph is by Dr. T. J. Howells. This picture is a striking view of the Mormon Battalion Monument, bringing out in bold relief the predominating figure, the heroic Mormon soldier, and showing with unusual clearness the accompanying group which depicts the hardships and sorrows incident to this historical trek. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. Brigham Young's schaolhouse which was located on the site now occupied by Bransford Apartments, just east of the Eagle Gate..- 2 Vol. 29, No. 7 MAGAZINE JULY 1942 7. Education In Early Utah Dr. L. H. Creer University of Utah T has often been charged that | Brigham Young and Mormon Church leaders were not interested in education. Nothing could be further from the truth. Not only did Brigham Young maintain his own private school at great expense to himself and family, but as Governor of the Territory (1850-1857) and as President of the Church (1847-1877), he continually urged the Saints to establish better schools and advocated incessantly as a means to this end the progressive principles of free common schools and equalization in education practices through the medium of state aid. As the Pioneers were leaving Winter Quarters for their new Zion in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, the great Mormon leader, standing on the banks of the Missouri River, demonstrated his interest in education convincingly by counseling his co-religionists as follows: "It is desirable that all Saints should improve every opportunity of securing at least a copy of every available treatise on education—every book, map, chart, or diagram that may contain interesting, useful, and attractive matter to gain the attention of children and cause them to learn to tread; and every historical, mathematical, philosophical, geographical, geological, astronomical, scientific, practical, and all other variety of useful and interesting writing, maps, etc., to present to the general Church Recorder, when they shall arrive at their destination, from which important and interesting matter may be gleaned to compile valuable works on every science and subject for the benefit of the rising generation. We had a printing press, and anyone who can take good printing or wtiting paper to the valley will be blessing themselves and the Church. We also want all kinds of mathematical instruments together with all rare specimens of natural curiosities and works of art that can be gathered." And 'says Clarissa Young Spencer, Page 443 444 the President's daughter: "The Saints heeded his words, and any who could, tucked in an old textbook among the blankets and sent word back to those who were following to do the same." Immediately upon arrival in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Pioneers began the erection of buildings to serve the double purpose of school and Church needs. Meanwhile, the first primitive schools were held in tents or by the light of the campfire. Thus Mary Jane Dilworth held school in a military tent in the Old Fort beginning in October 1847, and George Albert Smith is said to have held classes by light of campfire at Parowan in 1851. Speaking of Miss Dilworth's school, Mrs. Spencer says: "The schoolhouse was an old military tent, shaped round like a wigwam and placed near the center of the fort. The teacher had the dignity of an old camp stool for a seat, but the nine pupils had to be content with logs. The school was opened with prayer, and the first day was spent learning a psalm from the Bible and singing songs. Writing matetials were varied and unique. Some of the pupils had slates and pencils, and others had pens and paper, but those who had neither took charcoal and wrote on smooth logs or dried bark of the white mountain birch. When nothing better was available for the mid-day meal, the children went out and dug sego roots." Mrs. Clarilla Browning, Ogden's first school teacher, records in her diary: "T arrived at Brown's Fort October 27, 1849. That winter I taught school in a log house situated about five blocks south of the present railRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 way depot. We had to collect letters from scraps of paper and old books; these we pasted on paddles. We also made letters on the inside and outside of our hands. In this way the children learned to read." "THE eighth enactment of the. State of Deseret, February 28, 1850, provided for the chartering of the University of Deseret with an annual maintenance appropriation of $5,000. Its purpose was twofold: "to provide a place where members of the rising generation might be schooled in good citizenship, and where district and ward teachers might prepare themselves to head grammar schools." The Chancellor and Board of Regents were commissioned to organize branch institutions elsewhere, prepare textbooks, and open a free school institution for the benefit of orphans and other indigent persons. Thus the first school legislation provided for the supervision of all primary schools by the Chancellor and Board of Regents of the University. The first Chancellor was Orson Spencer, and the personnel of the first Board of Regents included W. W. Phelps, Albert Carrington, Elias Smith, Daniel H. Wells, Hosea Stout, John M. Bernhisel, Orson Pratt, Daniel Spencer, William L. Appleby, Zerubbabel Snow, Samuel W. Richards, and Robert L. Campbell. David Fullmer was chosen treasurer. The University of Deseret under the title of "Parent School" was opened for the first time on Monday, November 11, 1850, in the home of John Pack in the Seventeenth Ward. Dr. Cyrus Collins, A. M., enroute to California and the gold fields, halted his journey long enough to instruct the first class, some forty EDUCATION IN EARLY UTAH men, and "lectured on history, literature, and philosophy." Before the end of the quarter, Doctor Collins had been succeeded by Chancellor Spencer and W. W. Phelps, "whose lectures were scholarly and inspiring, despite primitive surroundings." Owing to the lack of room, the school was organized for men only. The tuition was eight dollars per quarter. The second term was opened in February 1851, in the upper room of the Council House. At this session, forty pupils, male and female, were enrolled. Subsequently, the school was held in the Thirteenth Ward Hall. A few years later, however, owing to the lack of funds and limited patronage, the Parent School was discontinued. For neatly fifteen years, the University continued in abeyance with only a nominal existence. Then in 1867, the school was reopened as a commercial college under the supervision of D. O. Calder. The first "real University" had its inception in 1869 under the brilliant leadership of Dr. John R. Park. The only financial aid tendered the University by the Federal Govermment was an appropriation of $5,000 for a library. The books were purchased by Territorial Delegate John M. Bernhisel and freighted across the plains in 1851 by Wilford Woodruff. "The books consisted largely of ancient and modern classics," records Mrs. Spencer. "Two large globes were also brought by ox team. One was a map of the world and the other an astronomical map. During the Fourth of July celebratiton in "69, these globes, mounted on platforms, were hauled in the procession on wagons." In his annual message to the Ter- 445 ritorial Legislature in the fall of 1851, Governor Young commented: "The grounds of the University are partly enclosed with a very good wall, and a building designed for its temporary use is commenced in the Thirteenth Ward of this city." The site selected for the permanent location of the University was the present campus of the University of Utah overlooking the Valley from _ the east bench. And says Mrs. Spencer: "They decided to enclose the grounds with a rock wall, and one hundred thirty-five rods of this wall were actually completed by 1853, with enough stone hauled to build three-fourths of a mile more. The City Council passed a law designating ground in the vicinity as herding and grazing ground for the animals of the men who should be working on the University." HE Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah on October 4, 1851, passed the first law dealing with elementary education. It provided for the appointment by the Chancellor and Board of Regents of the University of Deseret of a Superintendent of Primary Schools "to provide for the formation of a uniform system of public instruction throughout the Territory." This relieved the Chancellor from direct responsibility over primary schools. By Act of March 4, 1852, the county courts were directed to divide the counties into school districts and caused to be elected three trustees in each, "who were to supervise the schools as well as levy and collect taxes for them." Thus were created the first school districts in the Territory. By Act of December 30, 1854, County Boards of Examiners, comprising three men, were created to 446 determine the qualifications of teachers and to compile statistical data for the Territorial superintendent. District trustees by this enactment were authorized to levy taxes and collect revenues "for buildings, appendages, repairs, fuel, etc.;" but not for teachers' salaries. Revenue for salaries was to be obtained solely through tuitions and private donations. This was a common practice in Utah until 1866. 'Throughout this early period, be it noted, Brigham Young advocated state aid for common schools, an idea far in advance of his time and one which failed of fruition until three-quarters of a century later. "Thus," says Neff, "purse control of the schools rested where it originated, exclusively with the local units." And _ further: "While this decentralized system which thus insured complete local autonomy, was democratic in the sense of that day, it militated against the poor, in that it rejected the principle of distribution of education costs according to the ability to pay. Failure to recognize that teachers' salaries was another charge against taxable property, was another prejudice that blocked progress." Practically every governor of the Territory, beginning with Governor Young urged and recommended the establishment of free common schools. For example, Governor Cumming in his annual message to the legislature on November 12, 1860, said: "But as yet you have no free or common schools, and I would again impress upon you the vital importance of appropriating a portion of the Territorial revenue to the establishment and maintenance of such schools." The substance of this message was repeated in 1861 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 by Governor Dawson, in 1864 by Governor Doty, in 1865 by Governor Durkee, and in 1869 by Acting Governor Higgins. But the problems were arduous and obstacles practically insurmountable. Lack of finances, common to any pioneer society, refusal of some Gentiles to pay taxes for the support of what they considered to be Mormon. Theological seminaries and this action defended in test cases before the district federal courts, and the complete indifference of the Federal Government toward the problem, precluded the realization of the establishment of free public schools within the Territory. The Territorial Legislature memorialized Congress for aid in 1852, 1853, 1854, and intermittently thereafter during the entire Territorial period. In the 1854 resolution, the situation was put most convincingly in this wise: "... Situated as we are remote from the multiplied facilities for improvement possessed by the other states and territories, and unable to avail ourselves of the advantages arising from the lease or sale of certain public lands, invariably appropriated for school purposes, from the fact that no land bill has as yet been passed for Utah; we feel to urge our claims upon the generosity of your honorable body with the assurance that they will meet a response, generous on your part and highly necessary and advantageous on ours; and your memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray." But to all such petitions Congress turned a deaf ear. "We have never had one dollar from any source to aid in the cause of education," said George A. Smith in a conference sermon October 8, 1865. "We have built our schoolhouses, hired EDUCATION IN EARLY UTAH our school teachers, paid the school bills of our poor—have done everything that has been done in education, without one dollar of encouragement from the parent government. I have been astonished at this. I suppose that it is the policy of the government to extend the facilities of education but it has not been done here; not one solitary dime has been received by Utah, while millions upon millions have gone into the treasuries of other states and territories for school purposes from the Federal Government." Even the two reserved sections in each survey township appropriated through the Northwest Ordinance (1787) for school purposes were withheld in Utah until statehood was acquired in 1896. | The most important educational law in early Utah was that of January 19, 1866, bringing for the first time the compensation of the teachers within the province of school appropriation. Up to this time, teachers' salaries had been - based on a four dollar to eight dolJar per quarter tuition; now it came under district taxable provision for school maintenance. Unfortunately, however, this provision was permissive, not mandatory. The law also provided for the appointment of the Territorial superintendent by joint session of the Legislative Assembly, and also for the popular election of county superintendents. DISTINCTIVE characteristic of the school system of this area was the degree to which it was permeated with Mormon religious thought and atmosphere. Note, for instance, the following account taken from the Deseret News of April 1, 1857: "On Friday 13th ult., we were present at 447 the examination and close of the winter term of the Twelfth Ward School, Bishop L. W. Hardy, principal, assisted by Miss E. R. Bunnell. The average attendance during the quarter has been 70 scholars, their ages ranging from four to twenty-five years. The principal classes are as follows: First Reading Class—text book, the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants—forty-three; Writing Class— forty; Arithmetic — twenty - seven; Grammar—eight; Geography—twenty-three. The smaller or infant class compose about one-third of the school. The introduction of the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants has been attended with the most happy results. Uniformity of books for a large class has been attained, the lack of which hitherto very much increased the labors of teachers and retarded the progress of scholars. Added to these, another benefit has accrued from the introduction of these books, namely the planting in the mind of the youth a knowledge of the Scriptures and of the sacred records and commandments revealed through the Prophet Joseph." The importance of religious instruction in the schools was stressed by Daniel H. Wells in his sermon of April 8, 1867. In part, he said: "Let us provide schools, competent teachers, and good books for our children, and let us pay our teachers. I would have no objection to seeing the standard works of the Church introduced into our schools that our children may be taught more pertaining to the principles of the Gospel — in the future than they are at the present." At the same conference session President Young remarked: 448 "IT do hope and pray that you, my brothers and sisters, be careful to observe what Brother Wells has said in regard to introducing into our schools the Bible, Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants, and all the works pertaining to our faith, that our children may become acquainted with its principles, and that our young men when they grow up to preach, may not be as ignorant as they have been hitherto. Introduce every kind of useful studies into our schools." And added Erastus Snow: "I cannot speak too highly in favor of those good books that have been recommended to our schools—the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants— and all other good books—for the foundation of all true education is knowledge of God." Because of the absence of free common schools, private schools, both Mormon and non-Mormon, were not uncommon in Utah Territory. Most interesting of these, perhaps, was Brigham Young's own school on the site of the modern Bransford Apartments, just east of Eagle Gate, concerning which the celebrated traveler, Albert D. Richardson, who visited Salt Lake City in 1865, has this to say: "By Brigham's invitation, I spent an hour in his school. Its register bore the names of 34 pupils; three were Brigham's grandchildren, all the rest his own sons and daughters. There were twenty-eight present, from four to seventeen years old, on the whole, looking brighter and more intelligent than the children of any school I ever visited. With three of the Prophet's daughters, I had some conversation. Their language is good and their manners graceful. One has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 a Classic face; and another is so pretty that half the young men of the Church are in love with her." Describing this same school, Mrs. Clatissa Young Spencer, who attended it during the early Seventies, says: "The object that would distinguish it from the modern school was the large round stove in the center of the rcom. Yards and yards of black stove pipe stretched away to the chimney corner, and around the middle of the stove was a two-inch ledge where our apples baked throughout the long morning. Towards noon as our stomachs became emptier, these apples sizzled with an almost unbearably tantalizing odor. Friday was always the one day of the week for which we longed, for on that day all studies and exercises were put aside for the afternoon and we would have a program of declamations, spelling matches, organ solos and singing, ending up with the school paper, which was made up entirely of contributions of the scholars. I recently saw one that was written in the early Seventies and found that Heber J. Grant, the present head of the Church, and myself were the only surviving contributants." "THE University of Deseret, revived in 1867, after a lapse of | nearly fifteen years, was reorganized in 1869 into the nucleus of a real university by Dr. John R. Park, the new president. Five new courses were announced in the first published catalogue; namely, Commercial, Normal, Preparatory, Scientific, and Classical. One hundred ninety students were enrolled during the first year, 1869-1870. The new program was received with enthusiastic acclaim. Note the following editorial EDUCATION IN EARLY UTAH from the Millennial Star (1871): "Utah has no cause to be ashamed but every reason to be proud of her present educational facilities. Considering the youth of the Territory and the peculiar obstacles and disadvantages under which she has labored in the past, her position and point of means of educating the young people is highly creditable. The faculty of the University combine an amount and variety of talent and ability that would do honor to much older institutions of the kind. The president, Dr. Park, is well qualified to fill with ability the position he occupied, his ideas in regard to a proper system of education being exceedingly clear and practicable. He is a believer in the common sense method of suiting the educational course to the mental organization of the pupil, instead of attempting to change the mentality of the pupil and make it conform to the course." In 1892, the year of Doctor Park's resignation, the Ter- 449 ritorial Legislature granted a new charter, and henceforth the University of Deseret became officially known as the University of Utah. The Census of 1860 shows that Utah possessed at that time twelve public libraries with 5476 volumes. Seven thousand nine hundred fortyfour pupils attended school during the year ending June 1, 1860. There were Only 323 adults over twenty years of age who could neither read nor write, as compared with 499 for Oregon, 18,989 for California, and 1,088,710 for the aggregate states. In fact, the Utah record for literacy was the best in the entire nation. By 1870, the total number of children enrolled in schools had reached 24,148. This was forty-four per cent of the entire population. Truly, the education record of Utah Territory during the pioneer period of its existence, despite the paucity of federal and territorial financial support, was surprisingly remarkable. 8 MIRACLE Belle Watson Anderson Each faded, drooping lucerne plant Stood like a weary child Bereft of food and husbandry In dearth and famine wild. The arid and undampened field Cast waves of rising sheen, And the glory of the promised crop Paled to an ashen green. Oh, then to raise the flood gates high, Send water down the hill, To watch each tender, struggling life Revive and drink its fill! To feel security surge forth In radiant strength again; To see the glowing miracle— A resurrected plain. "Long May It Wave". Vesta P. Crawford Your flag, and my flag! And oh, how much it holds— Your land and my land Secure wails tts folds. Of the United States was raised at Cambridge, Massachusetts, by George Washington. On June 14, 1777, Congress enacted a resolution "... That the flag of the United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white, that the union be thirteen stars, white, in a blue field, representing a new constellation." In 1818, Congress enacted a resolution "that the thirteen stripes, denoting the thirteen original colonies, be retained, and that a star be added to the blue canton for each state after its admission to the Union." The flag of the United States has seen the growth of America, a lib- _ erty-loving people spreading out into a spacious continent and claiming 'the land for the Stars and Stripes; a people struggling to make democracy function in a world where many people no longer recognize the power of the two words that made our country—liberty and union. - President Wilson once said that our flag has no other meaning than that which we, as citizens, give to it. We create the luster of the stripes, and we maintain the purity of the stars in the field of blue. "This flag," said the great PresiQO: January 2, 1776, the first flag dent, "under which we serve, is the.? Emblem of our unity, our power, our thought, and purpose as a nation. Page 450 It has no other character than that which we give it from generation to generation. 'The choices are ours. It floats in majestic silence above the hosts that execute those choices.... And yet, though silent, it speaks to us—speaks to us of the past, of the men and women who went before us, and of the records they wrote upon it." When we see the Stars and Stripes flung out in glory above the dome of the nation's capitol, above a state capitol, or waving aloft on the liberty pole of some small village, we see not only the patterned stars and the alternating stripes, but we see America, the nation. We see its past, its present, and the future ages. We see the land and the people. We see action and ideals, sacrifice and service. We see a banner beckoning to a world "that walks in darkness." The colors of our national emblem are sky-born. "The stars upon it," says Henry Ward Beecher, "are like the bright morning stars of God, and the stripes upon it are beams of morning light.... And whereever this flag comes and men behold it, they see in its sacred emblazonry no embattled castles or insignia of imperial authority; they see the symbols of light. It is the banner of dawn." "LONG MAY IT WAVE" The banner of dawn! Who of its children can look upon the flag without seeing the dawn and the spreading of its radiance. There is in the flag the patriotism of the voice of Patrick Henry, the sacrifice of Washington at Valley Forge. There is the sorrow and the hope in the face of Abraham Lincoln. The flag bears an imagery of sights and tones, pictures and "sound effects," in the colorful panorama of national growth. There is a memory of the sound of waters moved by the paddle of oars as exploring boats traverse the long rivers of America, as explorers follow the waterways to find the sources of the streams. There is the sound of the moccasin tread of the frontiersman as he threads his way deeply into primeval forests further to the West. And there is the sound that can never die: the slow and _ patient tumble of the covered wagons in the migration westward; the rumble and rattle, the rhythmic plodding, the sound of the tide of empire going forward under a pillar of dust. There is the sound of an axe chopping the forest trees, clearing the land. There is the jingle of harness as a plow is guided along the rows of dark soil. The flag stands for that spaciousness of land, that spacious freedom of the heart, which comes from a vast expanse of country. "A thoughtful mind, when it sees a nation's flag, sees not the flag, but the nation itself." NOW America. Stand at dusk on the heights above the Golden Gate and watch the sea mist disap- 451 pearing into the infinity of ocean. Then turn your face eastward and think of America. Stand at dawn on some high peak of the great "Rockies" or the towering Sierras. See the rose-tinted light of morning crowding out the shadows from deep canyons, shedding brightness on the far peaks, painting with splendor the looping of serried ranges that seem to have no end. Say to yourself— "This is America!" Walk in the silence of the desert, noting the shadow of rocks in a thirsty land, the stalwart courage of the Joshua tree, the white bloom of the Yucca whose nourishment is drawn from the dark earth. Walk further and see that rim of iron that long ago fell from the wheel of a traveler's wagon. See the forgotten embers of a campfire. Know that this, too, is America. Who can see the golden fields of late summer, the harvest of the wheat, without knowing in his heart that truly the land is precious and made for our dominion. God has freely given us the soil and the sunlight, the ever-returning seasons, and our hands and minds as tools to | fashion an earthly paradise. He has given us America and the flag. Look ye all—there standeth the pillar of our folk: Erect, it is the will and courage of our fathers, White, for the stalwart innocence of their purpose, Upnght, in their reaching to the heart of heaven. "The flag," says Charles. W. Stewart, eminent authority on the history of our national banner, "may trace its ancestry back to Mount Sinai, whence the Lord gave to 452 Moses the Ten Commandments and the book of the law, which testify of God's will and man's duty, and were deposited in the Ark of the Covenant within the 'Tabernacle, whose curtains were blue, purple, scarlet, and fine-twined linen. Before the ark stood the table of shewbread, with its cloth of blue, scarlet, and white. These colors of the ancient church were taken over by the early western church for its own and given to all the nations of western Europe for their flags. When the United States chose their flag, it was of the colors of old, but new in arrangement and design, and they called it "The Stars and Stripes." Our national standard is emblematic of that particular plan of life which has been slowly evolved from the hearts and hands of people of many races who have brought from their fatherlands the best thoughts of the Old World and mingled them with the ideals of the New World. BVERY day America still must prove that neither race nor color nor ancestry are greater than union, or more to be prized than liberty. Every day we, as a people, must prove the higher loyalty of hearts and hands united—the doctrine that since we are all God's children, there can be no just barrier between us. There should be no armed conflict in the parliament of the world. The flag stands for liberty, not license; for dignity and law and order. Truly it stands for free speech, but not for speech so free that our great nation may be reviled with bitter words. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 Truly the flag stands for freedom, but not for the freedom which would forget that people are not individuals alone, but are a part of their communities. As citizens, we select our law makers and those who shall administer the laws. As Americans, we may recall from office those who have violated their trust. But if we truly love the flag and the institutions for which it stands, we must in word and deed support those who have been chosen by the voice of the people. What tower, anywhere, can stand in strength with a storm of contention and criticism tearing at _its foundations. This is a time for us to realize that leadership is a solemn responsibility. 'The way is often clouded, and the steering of the ship is often difficult beyond our realization. If we are to fulfill the prophecy and build a promised land that glows as an example to all the world, each one of us, individually a flag maker, must see that we add only light and splendor to the banner of our country. We should give evidence of this by showing kindness to. All people everywhere, by living in harmony with law and order, by speaking with dignity and devotion. Then, we may fittingly be called Americans. "The Stars and Stripes voice the spirit of America calling to a nation of indomitable courage and infinite possibilities to live the tenets of Christianity, to teach the gospel of work and usefulness, to advance education, to demand purity of thought and action in public life, and to protect the liberties of free government.... This is the call of the flag of the Union." Preserving Our Homes In Wartime Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School No. III war should not blind us to the fact that we are fighting for a better world for our children to live in. We have pledged our all-out effort to preserve freedom to live as a democratic people. This ideal includes freedom to establish homes and to live in peace in the family circle with a minimum of interference from without. We say we are fighting for a future better world for our children, but in our desperation we may fail to make the present world as good for them as it could be. Children may be overlooked in the great task of winning the war. - Totalitarian states put loyalty to the state ahead of family loyalty. Motherhood becomes a function of the state like any other productive enterprise. But for democratic peoples, the central focus of the present struggle is the preservation of our homes and a fine heritage for our children. Nothing arouses our fighting spirit more than to visualize the possible desecration of our homes and suffering of our children. Family harmony is more important in maintaining sane attitudes in time of stress than almost any other factor. Morale, or sound mental health, is intimately associated with a wholesome emotional climate in the home. This has been demonstrated clearly in peace time, and it is doubly significant today. Studies O'": desperate effort to win this of delinquency in children have shown repeatedly that no other condition is more important as a contributing factor than unpleasant emotional relationships in the home. Broken homes, homes wherein parents have been separated, the psychologically broken home wherein the parents may still live under the same roof but are in constant conflict and who create an atmosphere of discord and tension, are the soil in which most of our children's behavior difficulties germinate. Likewise, on the adult level, maladjustments in one's vocation, personal failure, crime, and even nervous breakdowns often occur in individuals who live in an unpleasant or disrupted home atmosphere. Happily married people have been found generally to come from homes where the parents were happy together. One of the worst evils of war is that regulated family life becomes progressively more difficult as the war persists and intensifies. 'The enemy realizes what a vulnerable spot the home is in maintaining morale. He deliberately devastates civilian residential districts in an effort to break up the stabilizing influence of the family. He hopes that the broken morale of the broken family will infect defense workers and troops and thereby create a defeatist attitude. We have long known that an unpleasant atmosphere at home affects Page 453 454 morale more seriously than does anything else. One of our first rules for maintaining morale, then, should be to call a truce in all family differences. If for no other reason, we should now unite our forces because we have a common enemy. Surely - with deadly foes working and praying night and day for our destruction, we have no spare energy to fight each other in the home. Family squabbles in a very real way undermine our efficiency in such a manner that we are less prepared to meet the severe energy demands and strains of war. We should bury the family hatchet for the duration— and let us hope that during the war we forget where we buried it. HERE are many new conditions which accompany war and threaten family life. A first condition, and one that will become considerably more common, is the withdrawal from home of the father, or sons, for military or defense duty. Economic problems may follow, and certainly the reassuring influence of men in the home will be missed. These changes in the composition of the family may necessitate changing residence with the attendant strain of new adjustments. 'There may also arise problems of moral standards of parents thus separated, particularly on the part of men away from home. Another important change wilich may threaten the status quo of the family is the regimenting of women into arms plants and civilian defense. The novelty of these new assignments will attract many mothers who do not in reality need to leave their homes in order to maintain them financially, With defense work and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 high pay will come a new independence of women and a setting up of a higher standard of living than was possible heretofore. In many cases, women will be paid more than their husbands have been paid, and as a consequence there: may be a shifting to or sharing by fathers of motherly functions. This trend of women to leave the home is certain to create many problems of domestic adjustment and child management. Divorce may increase, and also juvenile delinquency. Should the war in America reach a more critical stage, not an impossibility in coastal and defense areas, the mass evacuation of children and women may be necessary. Evacuation is the most drastic kind of family dislocation. 'The sustaining etfect of the former dwelling, of the friendly neighbors, and of all the other things that give us a sense of "belonging" in the community is suddenly gone. The overburdening of facilities in the new community contributes to the difficulty of mak- — ing new adjustments. In England, psychiatrists have found that the effects of breaking up homes and evacuation are considerably more damaging to mental health of children than the terror of bombings. Juvenile delinquency increased markedly with the disruption of homes and the collapse of community services. Finally, the most common home condition threatening our mental health today is what we might call the psychologically broken home. The many new problems of today may result in the estrangement of parents, even though there is no separation. The strain and fear cre- PRESERVING OUR HOMES IN WARTIME ated by the war may warp parents' perspective and may cause disintegration in the personal relationships in the home. Prolonged stress may make parents irritable with each other and with the children. The need for being civil and encouraging to each other in the home is likely to be overshadowed by the urgency of other problems. New and widespread economic and social problems also will make their impact felt upon the family. For example, the rising cost of living and increasing scarcity of essential articles will foster the feeling of economic insecurity of families on fixed incomes. An uncooperative attitude toward Government restrictions and associated family disputes may follow. The restriction of the use of automobiles through rationing of new cars, tires, and perhaps gasoline is producing a tremendous problem of adjustment. Our personal and business lives have been organized with such dependence upon the automobile that it is difficult to realize how completely we may be required to reconstruct our lives on this new pattern. The "pinch" will be particularly severe on young people. We are confronted with the acute problem of finding substitute activities for them. We can hardly return to the horse-and-buggy days when there are none! Many of our communities will soon be strained by the great influx of people of all types and creeds from many parts of the land. Our schools may be crowded and new influences brought into our communities, and new types of recreation may present difficult problems with our young 455 people. On the other hand, many of our communities may be drained of their most able leaders and public servants, who will be called elsewhere for military service or defense work. All civil functions are likely to suffer from the tremendous pressure of war work. All of this, of course, presents a greater challenge than usual to the American home. The need for intelligent parental guidance and wholesome _parentchild relationships is obviously of greatest importance today. Parents must more than ever see through the child's eyes if they are to lead the way wisely through these troubled times. HAT, then, can we do in the family to meet the crisis of today? First, courage is contagious. The home should be the fountain of hope, faith, and courage necessary to see this war through to a successful conclusion. Parents should support one another through reassuring conversation and sympathetic under- 'standing of one another's fears and anxieties. But this reassurance should be realistic. The truest optimism is not blind to the ugly truth, but is based on the "long view" which sees ultimate triumph in spite of painful appearances. This kind of faith is founded on an intelligent weighing of all the facts in the case. Winston Churchill's is an excellent example of healthy optimism. He never underestimates the disappointments and losses, but he does not let untoward incidents shake his faith in the ultimate outcome of the war. In this connection, we should employ the family council plan. Many 456 of the disturbing factors in the home are repressed grievances, fears, or frustrations. Out in the family council clarifies our thinking and frequently helps to desensitize our emotional reactions to our problems. The practice of family prayer often serves the same purpose. A second aim we can set for ourselves is to radiate intelligent faith to those away from home—a son in the service, a father away at defense work, or a sister On a mission or at school. Keep the lines of communication open. 'Try to substitute in every possible way for the sustaining influence of the home. Write letters often, using humor; express often admiration for and confidence in those absent and what they are doing; sincerely, but cheerfully, express love and devotion. A third prescription for today's home folk is to sublimate one's emotions through working at tasks that may assist those away. Engage in some activity that makes you feel you are working for the same cause they are. England's experience teaches us that family war work projects are-especially valuable. A family organization may be a closely knit unit of considerable effectiveness Often talking them | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 in certain war tasks and in civilian defense. Fourth, the communal spirit of the family in time of trouble is ot great value. England's air raids were endured better when parents were not separated in air raid shelters. Neighbors received much support from each other through sharing common deprivations and SOITOWS. Fifth, remember that war should not do away with play. In fact, recreation is even more necessary in time of stress than any other time. The home will likely resume much of its former prominence as a social center. New kinds of recreation must be found, and the home can contribute much along this line. And, finally, the art of helpfulness is an ancient virtue which can now be re-examined in a new setting. Strange how calamities turn our hearts to virtues that we should have always practiced! 'There is no more effective way of lifting oneself to a better frame of mind than to try to help others to do so. The home affords innumerable opportunities to help oneself through helping others. (The problems of children have been only briefly mentioned here.. The next article will treat more fully their problems in wartime. ) FREeuEETS for Testaments by servicemen to chaplains and clergymen at USO centers have increased nearly 50 percent in the past few months. The American Bible Society reported that its daily issuance is now 9,000, or 4,000 more than in the early spring. The clergy is requested to distribute these books only on request. Both chaplains and local ministers continue to send in so many orders and reorders that, according to the Bible Society, the presses are working overtime, and books are being shipped the day they are bound. An increase of nearly three-quarters of a million volumes of scripture in one year is reported by the Society, accredited largely to the demands of the servicemen. (From United Service Organizations, Inc.) The Century Of Light (A Parable) — Dorothy Oakley Rea LIZA looked from the lone window of her roughhewn cottage and saw that the sun was sinking fast. She rubbed tired hands on her faded calico apron and murmured half aloud, "The sun will be gone soon, and I shall be in darkness here unless I hurry. How strange that the need of a light should stir me, to whose tired soul and body the warm darkness acts as balm." But Eliza cut her wicks a little faster and threaded them through the candle molds with deft fingers before she lifted the iron pot of yellow, beef tallow from the fire. As long, gray shadows prowled stealthily across the sill of the lonely little window, Eliza selected one candle, not quite firm yet, and held it to the hearth fire until a cheery flame danced onto the wick. She carried the metry bubble of light to the little window, and the shadows in the little room left the floor arid danced merrily on the rafters overhead, casting a gracious veil over all that was crude and unbeautiful about the room. Far out in the night, a few weary wayfarers saw Eliza's candle burning and were cheered. The night seemed less dark to them, and they went more surely on their way. As for Eliza, she drew her chair near to the bubble of light, and her tired eyes became bright as they fell upon page after page of treasured words that would give her much to think about through tomorrow's labor-loaded day. F, LLEN hummed a merry tune as she moved about her little house, hanging fresh white curtains to the windows that seemed to be everywhere. She wiped the smudge made by a small hand from one pane and turned to her small son. "Craig dear, does it help you to see out the window if you put your hands on the glass?" | "No, Mommy, but if I press my nose there I can almost see around the corner to where Daddy's working." Ellen laughed, "But, darling, you needn't try to peer around corners any longer. Now, there is a window on every side. How your grandmother lived in this place with only that one tiny square is more than Pll ever know." "But, Mommy, Harry Deal's grandfather says that Grandma's window was always smiling, and he says that ours are dull as blind eyes. He says that all the folks who were traveling hereabouts at night got their bearings from Grandma's window." Ellen smiled into the serious eyes. "And what else does Harry Deal's grandfather say?" "He says that no matter what evil thing was hiding out in the dark, it just was no longer there when Grandma put her candle here on this sill." "Nonsense, Craig, there are 'no evil things in the dark, except the deeds men hide beneath its cover." Craig sighed. "I hope you're right, but I'd feel a lot better inside if we had lights in our windows when Page 457 458 I'm bringing up the stovewood at night. Sometimes I drop 'most half my load tryin' to get out of the shadows of the orchard." That night the winds came and rain beat with small fists at Ellen's new windows. She was huddled in the far corner of the room with her book. Her one lamp sputtered fitfully, as the wick strained toward the small amount of oil that Ellen allowed herself each night. The light cast long fingers across the passage where Ellen read: "Let your light so shine...." Suddenly, she thought of dear little Craig, hurrying panic-stricken through the orchard. She went quickly to the mantle shelf where a row of unused lamps were standing. 'They had been her wedding gifts. She brought a jug of oil and filled them carefully. As each figurine of light stepped gracefully to the waiting -wick, Ellen glanced about the room and laughed aloud at its festive brightness. Carefully then, she drew aside her fresh curtains and let each lamp stand as a sentinel in a window. Ellen thought that it was strange that she had always had the lamps and the oil, and yet she had kept this lovely light hidden. Two bright eyes laughed at Ellen over a double armload of apple wood. "See, I didn't drop a stick tonight. I was almost to run when I looked up and saw the windows. Then I just walked along looking at the light, and I didn't once think of the shadows any more." "They'll be this way every night, Craig. You needn't be afraid any more." Across the little town, Grandpa RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 Deal laid a light willow to the wet flanks of his horse. The rain ran from the brim of his old hat, and he shook the water from his shaggy brows, to peer into the night. "They's a bridge along here somewheres. I should of toted in before dark, so's I could see my way. Whoa, there, Bess! Let's wait here a spell, ~ so's I can get my bearings." Grandpa Deal stood up lamely, looking about for some familiar landmark. Suddenly, across the town bright squares of yellow light smiled at him. "Well, praises be, there's a light in Eliza's window. I s'pose her sweet soul knew that there would be weary travelers about in this devilinfested night. Giddap, Bess, I got my bearings now." CRAIG stood in the open doorway of his radio control room, listening intently. The snow blew past him onto the rug and dissolved itself softly into puddles at his feet. His young wife turned from the fireplace. "Surely, Craig, you don't suppose that any plane is flying in this kind of weather? After all, it is New Year's Eve, and I'd like to be someplace a little more gay than at a deserted airport. Whatever possessed the city to buy this old shack for a signal station, anyway?" Craig closed the door and looked about the little room with its roughhewn walls and its little square windows. "Are you asking for infor- _ mation, Marie, or just being peevish?" Marie laughed. "I expect I was really being sulky. But just why did you encourage them to choose this old place? It reeks with age, THE CENTURY OF LIGHT and it would have cost so little to build a nice, modern one somewhere." Craig sunk into a deep chair near the hearth. "A pilot getting his location, my dear, is not concerned about the type of building he sees for a landmark when he is flying during daylight. At night, all he cares about seeing is a light. 'The location of this place is ideal. It can be seen from every direction. The land has been cleared and is level, and the wind doesn't blow here constantly." "And besides all that," Marie teased, "I think that you are just plain in love with the old place." Craig smiled wistfully. "See that strange-looking contraption in the corer? 'That was my grandmothers' candle mold. Grandfather was considering heat loss when he built this place, so he only made one window. But I've heard that there was a candle burning in it every night as long as Gran lived. There weren't any street lights then, and people used to look to Gran's candle for direction. "Now, those old lamps on the mantle.... How'd you like to have to use those to light our new home, Marie? Those were what my mother used. I remember when my dad made all these windows. It made the house look like a gilded castle to me when I was coming through the old orchard at night. Sometimes I'd be scared inside, and the lights from the windows would make me feel all peaceful and not afraid any more." Marie glanced at her watch. "Soon it will be a new year. Just think of all the years that have slid over this 459 dear old roof, weaving themselves into a century. I think I see now why you were so anxious to get the electricity over here. I've even suspected that you paid for it yourself." "Does it matter who paid for it, so long as folks are still traveling in the night and looking for a beacon to guide them?" Marie rose suddenly from her chair and was listening. "Craig, listen! Don't you hear a motor? It sounds very faraway, but I'm sure I hear Ta Craig was at his radio board, turning dials and adjusting headphones. "Hello.... Hello.... Station LT calling.... Come in.... Come in.... This is station LT; are you on the beam? Come in.... Come in.... Hello.... Hello.... Yes, come in. What's your location? You're too far west. Come east and look for lights.... Your fuel will hold if you drop easily and come in due east. Watch for lights.... Give me your panel reading now.... You're heading OK; keep your altitude and bank to the right. Tell me when you see the light.... See it? Can you see it? All right now, start dropping and come on in." The searchlight flung its giant arm across the sky and pointed a silver finger at the tiny plane in the winter sky. Marie and Craig stood fascinated, watching the great beam. The roar of the motor was becoming more distinct now. Craig directed the huge light onto the plane and watched it come soaring down the silver path, until at length he heard the welcome sound of wheels bumping along over the frozen earth. The little plane with its ice-coated 460 wings sighed gratefully as it stopped. The weary pilot blew on numbed fingers as he climbed out. "Where could a man get a good hot meal at this hour?" "Well, I guess all the cafes are..." Craig stopped and peered closely at the friendly face. "Say...! You're Harry Deal. What in the world are you doing here after all these years and on such a night?" "Oh, I just kinda got a hankering to see the old town again. You know, 'Auld Lang Syne,' and all that stuff. Funny, no matter where you travel, the place you stayed when you were a kid is always home." "Tt's been a long time, Harry, since we were kids together—right here. This used to be the old orchard, you know." "Yeah, how well I remember. I wondered if you'd keep the pledge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 "Pledge? What pledge was that?" Harry was smiling as he watched the great searchlight making its mighty arc across the sky. "You said that as long as you lived you were going to see to it that your grandma's candle was kept burning. You've really got it burning in a big way." As the three friends walked toward the little house with its smiling, bright windows, Harry Deal was pensive. "You know, that was a strange feeling I had up there tonight, like I was shut away from all the world and had no hope of ever getting back to it. It was like being awakened from a really bad dream when I finally saw your light. I realize now what Grandfather Deal meant by what he used to say." "What was it he used to say, Har- 99) Harry was almost reverent. "He used to say, "Well, there's Eliza's 58% TOLD AT SUNSET Grace Zenor Pratt If I might bring to skies that now are gray The sunset glow that charmed me late today, Put back the glowing crimson, saffron, blue, and gold— Recapture that lost beauty, and could hold The spell of those last moments and the thrill When sunset kisses the last purple hill With glory; touches green valleys with its magic light.. Then might I be content to endure one brief night. If I might hear again the cadence of your voice Waking my soul to live and to rejoice; | If I might lay my folded hands in silent prayer Upon your hair and let them linger there, And see again the light love brings into your eyes— Those visions fair which meant our paradise; Then might I wait in patience, without tears, However long might be the empty years. You made here one night." candle. I kin get my bearings now.'"' In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER VII Rerer Soctrery WELFARE Work AND RELATED ACTIVITIES: ELFARE work, which is one W of the most interesting and important features of the Relief Society program, and which was the first assignment given to the organization, has received renewed attention in the last quarter of the century. While the aims and objects of the Society were outlined in the beginning by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and general principles have been developed from time to time, actual detailed methods of helping people out of trouble were left for development by the Society, working under the supervision of the Presiding Bishopric. However, organized relief in the Society was introduced, demonstrated, and established by the Prophet himself when he contributed $5 to the charity fund and announced that what he should give to help the needy in the future would be given through this organization. The life of Relief Society has covered the most interesting period in the whole history and development of social welfare work. There has been more progress in this field in this century than in all the centuries which preceded it. Near one hundred years ago, there began a wave of humanitarian sympathy and scientific inquiry which — gradually spread over the whole country, creating a new interest in human beings.. Among the dominant ideas which were developed during the last half of the century are the following: that organized relief should replace indiscriminate giving; that the causes of poverty should be studied, both personal and environmental causes, and that destructive forces should be singled out for special attention and attack; that prevention of poverty, disease, and crime is much better and much cheaper than relief or cure; that old-fashioned charity which was largely palliative and paid attention only to those already in trouble should be replaced by modern welfare which calls for the getting to the very roots of the trouble; that mass betterment should go hand in hand with individual betterment; that the broad aim of social work should be that each individual shall be able to live a normal life according to the standards of the period and the community, rather than the narrower object which is merely the care of those who through misfortune or fault cannot gain this for themselves; that rehabilitation should be the goal in philanthropy; that wholesome recreation is necessary; that suggestive steps in family welfare are relief of existing distress, prevention of new distress, and the raising of human life to its highest level. As a result of new and intensive study, "definite principles have been formulated and new standards set up, training courses established, general instruction in colleges and universities and even in Page 46] 462 secondary schools given, and technical literature provided." Relief Society, wherever it has functioned, has been. A beneficiary as well as a factor in this development. Because of the nature of its work, it has received recognition and earnest attention. It has made a name for itself throughout the organized world of women. Humanitarian work is naturally appealing everywhere to everybody. I found in my missionary work that, to most people, unselfish humanitarian work is often more appealing in the beginning than theological doctrine—and ~ indeed it is practical religion. In 1916, special attention was given by the General Board to the work of the visiting teachers, and at the October conference of that year a visiting teachers' convention was held. The duties and responsibilities of these workers were reviewed and discussed, the use of new teachers' books which had been introduced at the beginning of the year was evaluated, and topics or messages were suggested for use in home visits. Following this stimulating convention and through the next few years, changes and readjustments were gradually made. The title "visiting teacher" was substituted for "block teacher," and the geographic divisions were designated as "districts" instead of "beats." The teachers were relieved of the duty of assisting in the distribution of relief or aid, which task was taken over entirely by ward presidents. Visiting teachers were still expected, however, to receive and carefully record contributions and to report cases of need and illness. New arrangements were made in 1921 whereby their reports could be given privately to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 president on work-and-business day rather than in the regular open meeting to the members, which had been the custom in the past. 'Teachers' messages were first published in the Magazine in November 1921 for use in 1922. In 1923, the use of the teachers' messages was required. The distribution of aid and the. Special work of family inquiry, analysis, and planning was to be the responsibility of the ward president, working in close cooperation with and under the direction of the bishop. During and after the last World War, and in the depression years which followed, family problems were multiplied and economic distress was increased everywhere; as a result of this, health and welfare agencies were taxed to the limit to meet the situation. Many human needs of long standing were revealed, and startling discoveries were made respecting existing conditions. It was found that there was need for better and broader service in health and welfare programs, closer cooperation between agencies, more effective coordination of community activities, and more comprehensive methods of helping people who were in trouble and distress. Training courses were given in connection with schools and universities in the fields of health and welfare. Red Cross featured courses in home hygiene and care of the sick, nutrition, first aid, and home service (family welfare). Relief Society women, ever alert to new and added opportunities, and quick to recognize any improved method of helping people out of trouble, took advantage of every means which would better fit them IN RETROSPECT for their many-sided, humanitarian program. The organization restated and reemphasized its views, some of which were: that the able-bodied should work and, where necessary, work should be provided for them; that the aged should be properly cared 463 and sailors, was grateful to the Latter-day Saint Relief Society for assuming the care of those belonging to the Church, and the Relief Society was more than willing to conform to the standards of care which were required by this national service organization. RELIEF SOCIETY CLASS IN RED CROSS SURGICAL DRESSING HELD IN GARDO HOUSE, SALT LAKE CITY, 1920 Front row, center, is Emma A. Empey, chairman, who represented Relief Society General Board for; that the dependent mother with minor children and dependent, neglected children should be helped adequately and intelligently; and that Relief Society welfare workers should be willing to better train themselves by study and practice in order to know when to help and how to help constructively, and, in the words of Dr. Edward T. Devine, the great philanthropist, "to minister in all things to the strength rather than to the weaknesses of those who are in distress and trouble." The Red Cross, which had taken over the care of families of soldiers It was a real pleasure for me as general secretary to be one of a delegation of four women selected to take a special course in family welfare work given by the University of Colorado and the Red Cross in the fall and winter of 1917, with field work in the city and county welfare department of Denver. The other members were Annie D. Palmer, of Provo, Cora Kasius, of Ogden, and Mary L. Hendrickson, of Logan. A rather spectacular incident occurred in connection with our sojourn in Denver, which caused us some anxiety. After we had been at work 464 several weeks, the Denver Post announced in large headlines that Amy Brown Lyman, the general secretary of the Mormon Relief Society, and several other Latter-day Saint women had come to Denver presumably to take a course in family welfare work, but that in reality these women were there to proselyte in Denver homes. The institute officials were greatly perturbed over the matter and called at our boarding place immediately to make apologies for the paper and to offer to make any retraction we might desire through the other daily paper. Two of our number were so insulted and outraged at being accused of such duplicity that they were determined to return home. They wondered if any of the institute members would believe this story. However, after consulting with President John L. Herrick, head of our mission there, we decided to pay no attention to the matter and to give up any idea of answering the article in any way. Beginning with the new year of 1918, I was made chairman of the Family Consultation Committee of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the Red Cross, and supervisor of Red Cross Relief Society family _ work, and the other workers were placed in charge of all Red Cross family work as follows: in Provo, Mrs. Palmer; in Ogden, Miss Kasius; and in Logan, Mrs. Hendrickson. In the fall of this same year, I spent another period in the charity office in Denver as a volunteer. Worker, with a view of becoming more familiar with the administrative work of this excellent office. In June 1919, a social welfare department with standardized social case: work. Was established at Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 Society headquarters in the office of the general secretary, upon the advice of President Joseph F. Smith and with the hearty approval of President Emmeline B. Wells. The object of the department was to serve (a) as a center for cooperative work in Salt Lake City between stakes and wards, and between Latter-day Saints and non-Latter-day Saint agencies in the interest of Latter-day Saint families in distress; (b) as a center for Latter-day Saint transients and non-residents in need; (c) as a Latter-day Saint confidential exchange and clearing house; (d) as an employment center or bureau for women and girls; (e) as a training center for Relief Society women engaged in charity and relief work; (f) as the official child-placing agency of the Church. As the work of the welfare department grew and additional workers were employed, it was moved from the general secretary's office and given a separate department (1921), although still under the direction and supervision of the general secretary, who for sixteen years (1915- 1934) directed the work. The development of this department, with the varied duties and numerous contacts involved, was an interesting and challenging experience to me and my fellow workers, and the work was so helpful to others that it brought encouragement and satisfaction. In 1920, the General Board conducted an intensive six-weeks' course in family welfare work at the Brigham Young University, and sixty-five of the eighty-three stakes sent sixtyeight delegates to the course. The class included one great-grandmother, sixteen grandmothers, forty-three mothers,. And eight unmarried girls. IN RETROSPECT Sixteen were between the ages of twenty and thirty years, sixteen between the ages of thirty and forty years, twenty between the ages of forty and fifty years, thirteen between the ages of fifty and sixty years, and three were sixty years of age. Follow-up work was later carried 465 gan an annual course of lectures in social welfare for the graduating class, which continued for seventeen years (1923-1940). Since that time, this work has been given at the University of Utah in connection with other' educational work for nurses. For a number of years, a similar lecCLASS IN SOCIAL WELFARE, BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, SUMMER OF 1920 Front row, center, is Amy Brown Lyman into the local divisions where additional institutes were held with local workers. Altogether, 126 institutes have been held in various localities, varying in length from four days to six weeks, the average length being two weeks—with a total attendance of 4155 Relief Society workers. Lessons in social problems, health,. And related subjects, given in weekly meetings, have created interest and stimulated helpful community projects. T the request of the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City, in 1923, the welfare department be- / ture course was given by the department to the graduating classes at the County Hospital and at the Holy Cross Hospital. Short courses in social welfare for nurses are included today in all hospital training schools, the object being to familiarize nurses with social and economic problems which are so closely related to health work in the field, and to prepare them to function more effectively as community leaders. Included in the Relief Society social welfare department from the beginning has been an employment bureau for women and girls, and since 1916 there has been a child-placing bureau. Designated by the First 466 Presidency as the official child-placing agency for the Church, the Relief Society was licensed in 1926 for this work and has functioned in this capacity since that time. A storehouse for clothing and supplies was established in 1921 by the Salt Lake City stakes for their own benefit. It was later taken over by the General Board; and under the direction of Nettie D. Bradford, a member of the Board, as chairman, clothing and furniture were received, renovated, and remodeled for distribution. This storehouse was a great aid to the welfare department and a benefit to the people. In order to promote closer cooperation between bishops and Relief Society presidents in the interest of family welfare work, the Presiding Bishopric in 1921 issued the following instructions: "The bishopric should invite the Relief Society presidency to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick, and those in distress." Previous to this, each agency had worked more or less independently. In the war years (World War I) and the depression years which followed, Relief Society women made great contributions in the interest of suffering humanity, cooperating with the Red Cross and other agencies in producing clothing, including _ knitted articles, in preparing surgical dressings, producing and conserving food, and in caring for the sick, distressed, and needy. At Relief Society headquarters we were busy from morning till night, and worked oftentimes late into the night. During the summers of 1924-1928, inclusive, under the sponsorship of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 the welfare department, and through the ccoperative effort of the General Board and some of the country stakes, and with a number of generous individual donors, malnourished children were sent to the country and cared for in hospitable homes for at least a two-weeks' period for each child. Many children enjoyed this privilege and in every instance gained in weight. In the five summers, 269 children, an average of fifty-four each summer, were given the opportunity. One little boy wrote to the office while he was away that he was having a wonderful time riding horses, helping to feed chickens and pigs, and to "pick the eggs." Representing the General Board, I was one of nine persons appointed as a committee on organization of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers which was organized and held its first meeting in October 1925. Inasmuch as sickness (physical or mental) is the greatest single cause of poverty, and inasmuch as poverty is often due to sickness, welfare and health workers have long felt the need of close cooperation; and in the Relief Society, health work has gone hand in hand with charity work. People are often poor because they are sick, or sick because they are poor. This alliance of poverty and disease has persisted in all ages and has often formed a vicious circle about its victims. Sickness eats up savings and eventually incapacitates individuals. It is especially disastrous if the breadwinner is affected. Not a single year has passed since its organization that the Society has not featured health work—health projects as well as health education. Charity workers estimate that IN RETROSPECT there is physical sickness in sixty to eighty percent of all families being aided, and this in addition to those afflicted with mental illness. Preventable sickness is often responsible for the death of men in the prime of life whose families are left with insufficient support, of mothers 467 Board of Health in the establishment of five milk depots in school buildings located in the western part of the city, for the purpose of supplying milk for babies during July and August, especially those in homes lacking refrigeration facilities. Fresh, cold milk was available twice RELIEF SOCIETY EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 1920 Seated at desk is Helen Woodruff (Anderson), employment clerk in early life, and of little children. Even where children recover from acute illnesses, they are often left with scars and injuries which are never overcome. Wasting diseases, such as tuberculosis and _ heart trouble, reduce many families to need. In 1916 and 1917, effort was made in Relief Society to increase the use of milk in the diet of children, even to the amount of one quart per child per day; also to impress upon mothers the importance of pure, clean milk for babies. Upon recommendation of Alice M. Horne, chairman of public health, the General Board cooperated with the Salt Lake City daily. Mothers who were able paid for the milk, and to others it was, furnished free of cost. The depots were in charge of nurses assisted by volunteer workers from the Relief Society, and supervised by the City Health Commissioner. 'The expenses were borne by the city, the Relief Society, and by a number of individual donors. In addition to supplying milk, babies were examined, calls were made at the homes, and classes for mothers were held. Hundreds of babies were benefited by this service. These centers pointed the way and were forerunners of the Well-Baby Clinics which were later established in many places, and demonstrated 468 the importance of a pure and adequate milk supply for babies and children. | | Relief Society women everywhere have constantly emphasized in their educational work the importance of milk in the diet of children and adults, and have promoted projects in order to secure funds for the purchase of milk for families not able to supply it in sufficient quantity for themselves. AFTER participating in classes for health instruction for nearly 100 years, after conducting classes in practical nursing and obstetrics for forty-eight years, and after supplying practical nursing service in most Latter-day Saint communities, the General Board took a step in the direction of providing better training for future practical nurses or nurse aids. In 1920, the Board persuaded the Latter-day Saints Hospital to try the experiment of offering a one-year course for Relief Society nurse aids who were recruited by the organization. The experiment was most successful, but was discontinued after the fourth year because this short ecourse jeopardized the standing of the hospital with the National Hospital Rating Bureau. The organization has continued its interest in nursing, however, by recruiting nurses for regular hospital training, which until recently was a real task for hospitals; by establishing two nurse loan funds in 1923 and 1926, respectively; and by setting aside funds for health, maternity, and child welfare. At the Relief Society April conference in 1922, upon recommendation of President Clarissa S. Williams and with the approval of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 Presiding Bishopric, it was decided to centralize the scattered wheat funds throughout the Church which amounted to nearly one-half million dollars ($412,000), to place them at interest with the Presiding Bishop's Office, and to use the interest from the fund for health, maternity, and child welfare purposes. 'Thus was initiated an important movement in the Society which, in connection with the work of cooperating agencies, notably state health departments in the Sheppard-Towner work, was a factor in reducing the infant, child, and maternal death rate in many communities through health centers, health conferences, physical examinations, and correction of defects. It was my privilege as a member of the House of Representatives the next year (1923) to introduce in the Utah Legislature the bill providing for Utah's acceptance of the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act: "to promote the welfare and hygiene of infancy and maternity." Under this provision, the Relief Society co-_ operated with the state health departments in other western states, as well as in Utah. In connection with this work, maternity chests were established in the local branches, together with readyto-use maternity bundles and _ layettes. The chests contained all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby. The bundles contained first necessities for the baby. The bundles and utensils were either loaned or rented. Relief Society women of today never lose sight of the fact that a large number of Latter-day Saint women have graduated in medicine; that two hospitals have been established by the Society—the Deseret IN RETROSPECT Hospital in early days (1882), the forerunner of our Church hospitals, and the Cottonwood Maternity Hospital (1924), which is still operating successfully; and that large donations of bed and table linen and sewing service have been contributed by them to our Church hospitals. 469 ity Chest, the State Woman's Com. Mittee on Unemployment, State Council of Defense, State Welfare Commission, Utah State Tuberculosis Association, and the State Training School for the Feebleminded. I have also had the opportunity of attending national meeta Ji RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE DEPARTMENT AT GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, 1942 While working in the Relief Society, I have had the opportunity of coming in contact with many other welfare agencies and _ institutions, and have learned to appreciate their work and their value. I have also served on a number of local and state welfare boards, which service has helped to broaden my views and sympathies, and to increase my understanding with respect to the varied fields of humanitarian work. Among these latter are: Family Service Society, Red Cross Home Service, Salt Lake Community Clinic, Salt Lake Hospital Advisory Board, Dental Service Society, Travelers' Aid Society, Legal Aid Society, Visiting Nurse Association, Communings as follows: National 'Tuberculosis Association, Boise, Idaho, 19109; American Child Hygiene Association, New Haven, Connecticut, 1922; and the National Conference of Social Workers, Pittsburgh, 1917; Kansas City, 1918; Atlantic City, 1919; New Orleans, 1920; Washington, D. C., 1923; Toronto, Canada, 1924; Denver, 1925; Cleveland, 1926; Des Moines, 1927; and Montreal, 1935. Through these avenues, I have been privileged to meet some of the noted social welfare workers of the day. MONG the many interests of the Relief Society, and a very special interest of my own for many 470 years, has been the study and proper care of those who are mentally ill and those who never grow up. Because of this interest, the subject of mental hygiene and child study was featured for a number of years in the educational department of Relief Society, beginning in 1926. This study resulted in increased knowledge and enlarged vision with respect to the mentally ill and handicapped, and in a better and more sympathetic understanding regarding them and their needs. In Utah, which was one of the few states without an institution for the care and training of the feebleminded, Relief Society women were the major factor in the introduction of a bill in the 1929 legislature providing for the establishment of such an institution, and in the passage of the bill. They wrote letters, made personal visits to legislators, and circulated petitions throughout the state which were presented to the legislature, containing in all 25,065 signatures. Legislators, on receiving these petitions, were not inclined to ignore them. Following the session of the legislature, Governor George H. Dern on April 17, 1929, appointed a commission of five, including himself as chairman, -to choose a site for the proposed new institution. The other members were D. A. Skeene, Roy D. Thatcher, John Booth, and myself. The commission first sought the advice of experts in states having the most successful similar institutions, and of professional people in the field of psychiatry, and even persuaded one superintendent, Doctor Allen, of the Vermont school, to accompany us through the state to inspect the sites—more than thirty— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 which had been offered. Others accompanying the commission were soil, hydraulic, and drainage experts from the Agricultural College, and members of the State Building Commission. 'The school was finally located on the bench north of American Fork, which in the opinion of all concerned was the most satisfactory site. In May 1930, when a board of trustees was appointed for the school, the members of the commission were all included. My term of office was five years, or until 1935. At the end of five years I was reappointed for seven years, or until 1942. The board was dissolved in 1941 by Governor Herbert B. Maw in connection with his reorganization program, and the members were all released. My service with the institution therefore covered a period of twelve years. Connection with this humanitarian institution during these twelve years was a real privilege. To see it grow from its inception to a great and successful institutionwas not only satisfactory, but thrilling. Each month I looked forward to our visit to the school, which included the board meeting, and also to the pleasant and profitable association with fellow board members who gave so freely and unselfishly of their time to this cause. Our work with the superintendent, Dr. H. H. Ramsay, who is one of the finest characters I have ever met, and who is so efficient, experienced, and outstanding in the fields of psychiatry and institutional management, was an education in itself, giving us new insight and understanding with respect to the many problems of these patients who are unable to plan for themselves or IN RETROSPECT work in their own interest. His infinite patience and sympathetic understanding of the children, their problems, handicaps, and needs, and his method of conducting the affairs of the institution, were an inspiration. In 1926, through the kindness of a generous friend, I was able to start two loan funds in the General Board. At that time I received a personal gift of $500, to be used in any way I might desire in connection with welfare work. After careful consideration, I presented $300 to the Latter-day Saint Primary Children's Hospital, which institution had cooperated so closely with the General Board in welfare for children, and with the $200 started the two loan funds—a social service loan and scholarship fund, later designated the Amy Brown Lyman Relief Society Social Service Loan and Scholarship Fund; and a_ public health nurse loan fund, later dedicated as a memorial fund to President Clarissa S. Williams. [N connection with its educational and welfare work, the Relief Society has established since 1923 six loan and scholarship funds, one temple grant, one prize poem contest, and one prize story contest. Following is the list: 1. A loan fund for college girls of the upper classes at the Brigham Young University, known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund, established in 1923;. An annual prize poem contest for Latter-day Saint women, known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest, established in 1923; ' 3. A nurse loan fund for girls desiring N 47] to enter hospitals for training, known as the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, established in 1923; — 4. A temple grant for temple service for women, known as the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, established in 1923; 5. A public health nurse loan fund for graduate nurses desiring to secure training in public health nursing known as the Clarissa S. Williams Relief Society Memorial Public Health Nurse Loan Fund, established in 1926, designated as a memorial in 1931, after her death; 6. A social service loan fund for college women desiting to study social work, social problems and related subjects, known as the Amy Brown Lyman Social Service Loan and Scholarship Fund, established in 1926, transferred for administration to the Brigham Young University in 1942; 7. A social service loan and scholarship fund known as the Louise Y. Robison Loan and Scholarship Fund, es-* tablished in 1932 and transferred for administration to the Utah State Agricultural College in 1939; 8. A woman's fellowship in social work for graduate women students at the University of Utah, known as the Amy Whipple Evans Woman's Fellowship in Social Work, established in 1937; g. An annual prize story contest for Latter-day Saint women, established in 1942. Any discussion of progressive welfare work in Relief Society could not be complete without mentioning the fact that Relief Society women worked unitedly for national prohibition, which Dr. Edward T. Devine declared was the greatest | piece of social legislation ever passed. 'This was achieved in 1918. What a tragedy that the law was repealed! (To be continued ) Reading For Understanding Harriet P. Johnson Member of Public Library Staff, Salt Lake City URING the high nervous teniB) sion of wartime with its exhausting mental strain and emotional excitement, our great need is to find some medium through which we may gain emotional and intellectual balance and _ preserve normalcy. The art of reading may assume great value to us as a means of bringing serenity into our lives. If you enjoy reading, the open book is a ready and sure means of freeing your thoughts from the deadliness of reality. There are books for every taste and mood; books to take your thoughts anywhere and in every fashion. Down through the ages we have had master thinkers who have given us in literature a panacea for every ill of life. We have had writers with the broad view of the philosopher, who see beyond the corruption of evil to the triumph of righteousness. We have had authors who deal with the beauty of truths everlasting and give to us a pattern for a better way of life. Read from such literary artists as John Ruskin who was primarily an apostle of righteousness. "No other man," said Carlyle, "has in him the divine rage against iniquity, falsity, and baseness that Ruskin has, and every man ought to have." For fifty years the writings of Ruskin took on a plea for a return to the simple virtues. He reminds the weary king and the tormented slave alike that the secrets of happiness "are in drawing hard breath over chisel or spade Page 472 or plow; in watching the corn grow and blossoms set; and after toil, reading, thinking, hoping and praying." Books are the means whereby the thought of the author is communicated to man—if man can but read the message. If man can read? Yes, it is true that very few can read in the sense of taking in the full significance of the printed page, to say nothing of exercising judgment upon it. Ask a dozen people to interpret the message from a page of Emerson's "Self-reliance." 'They will probably return with twelve different versions, yet Emerson had but one message. The successful reader is he who gains from the printed page all that the author intends to communicate—not only in thought, but in understanding. The term "a great reader" is often erroneously applied to one who reads a quantity of books. Men who fill their minds with unassimilated information Pope calls "bookful blockheads." A "great reader" is he who reads the best quality of books, and extracts from them their full meaning. Successful reading is not limited to college students. One receives the essential tools for reading in the grade schools when he learns the written symbols of language. Successful reading is but active thinking. To get the most out of books can become as exhilarating as the most absorbing game. Sometimes we select an article of READING FOR UNDERSTANDING quality to be read, and in attempting to read it we find ourselves confused. Under such circumstances there are two things we might do: First, we might get external help by going to textbooks, teachers, or other outside sources, but this does not fully exercise our own minds. The other alternative is to settle down and wrestle with the problem ourselves, giving to it our own best thought. Light fiction and other ordinary books do not require deep thinking, but great books that deal with fundamental problems demand _ active mental effort. If the same mental processes could be applied to all reading that are used in reading love letters, no thought would be lost, for that is one type of literature that is universally well read. The recipient reads every word carefully, weighing each one against the other, and considering each in relation to the whole. He rereads, considers many possible interpretations, rejects many, and finally accepts the most optimistic. Then he reads between the lines and finally, adds some original thought. There are some helps to thoughtful reading, such as note taking. Notes help one to retain what he has read, and may be a means of recording his own thoughts on the subject. Notes taken in a notebook or on paper in the form of an outline, setting forth the major topics and sub-topics with comments for judgment and understanding are very helpful. The process of writing is a means of keeping one mentally alert, and is certainly a valuable aid to memory. If it is important to read between the lines, it is equally important to 473 write between the lines. Many people have a false respect for paper, type, and fine binding; and would keep them immaculate to the extent of sacrificing the gifts of the author's genius. If one has a super-de luxe edition of a valuable book, he should buy a cheap edition which he will not hesitate to mark. Notations become a valuable part of a book. To pick up a book with one's notes of agreement or disagreement a year or two after having read it, is like resuming a conversation. However, a person should never mar a borrowed book or a book belonging to a public library. Respect for the rights and property of others forbids this. One must remember, too, that note taking is only a means of study. Too much dependence on notes prevents the article from becoming wholly his. Not until one can give the information to others without the aid of paper does the thought really become his. NOTHER important factor in reading for understanding is rereading. 'The value of rereading a book depends upon the book and the uplift it gives. A book of classic quality with broad and wholesome views will yield more entertainment, information, and understanding with every reading. It may become an inexhaustible fountain of enjoyment, information, and stimulation. However, returning to pages which a period of years before held surprise and charm sometimes makes melancholy reading. A book may be good at one stage of life and bad at another. Rereading is often a means of measuring one's mental progress. People reread books for different teasons. A sentimentalist rereads a 474 book because he enjoyed it in his childhood. Another type of person finds a book worth rereading because it echoes his own unchangeable prejudices. A one-book man is a man in a dangerous condition, as he is almost sure to be psychopathic—unless, of course, the book he reads is the "Book of Books." Readers have been classified as belonging to one of three broad groups. It may be interesting to grade ourselves. If we read such things as newspapers with understanding, we pass grade one. To grade two belong the readers of such books as The Ignorance of Valor or Overstreet's Brave Enough for Life. In grade three are those who reach a peak in reading for understanding— 4 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1942 those who assimilate such works as Einstein's books on higher mathematics. 'This classification seems to -omit fiction. But fiction is a form of reading indulged in by readers of all grades. Its value is largely measured by the reader's need for relaxation. We learn only from our betters. When the best books are read, there may be an inequality, to some degree, between the author and the reader. 'This the reader must overcome. It is a challenge to his skill as a reader. As he masters the printed page and gets the author's full message from it, his reward is an increase in knowledge and the satisfaction of accomplishment. A SHIRT TALE Alice Mortey Bailey We laughed at Grandma's romance when we read How she had washed his shirt; how every thread Was dear to her—his shirt, the handsome scout Who whistled, sang, who rode, who put to rout Their fears; this hero brave who led the train— For they were dauntless pioneers. The plain And canyon knew their west-turned feet. He tossed It laughingly—bestowing favor—crossed The wagon tongue and tipped her face to his So; for a breath, she thought—and hoped—his kiss Would take her lips. All day, the story goes, She hugged the shirt. They say she pressed her nose Deep in its folds, and breathed the scent of sage And dust and campfire smoke—each smell a page From his day's book—man-odors, mingled, strong.. At night, by firelit wagons, shadowed long Like galleon sails against the stars, she scrubbed The rough homespun. How lovingly she rubbed Is duly told—the gentle pats, the care She lavished, too. All this is charted there. We laughed at her, and called her silly, young (For she was scarce sixteen), that when she hung It up to dry, the sleeves in shadow etched, She fancied it was he with arms outstretched To her. Today I do not laugh, for I Washed your shirt and hung it up to dry. HAPPEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Oh how the heart in rapture thrills o'er the beauty of the Wasatch hills When like a crown the lilies lie sweet scented 'neath a cloudless sky. WENTY-FIVE years ago, in 1917, our boys went off to war to the sound of martial music 'mid tumult and shouting; glamour and glory was in every good-by; now in 1942, again is heard the tread of marching feet, but the glamour has departed and the farewells are like a solemn prayer. A great lesson has been learned from the solemn reminders of fields of white crosses and hospitals filled with disabled war veterans. This time the battle line is farther flung, this time our glorious flag, that never knew defeat until Corregidor, is threatened as never before; this time in greater faith we cry— Lord, God of Hosts) be with us yet, Lest we forget—lest we forget! IEUTENANT = FLORENCE McDONALD headed the nine heroic nurses who escaped by plane from Corregidor to Australia after the most horrifying experiences perhaps ever endured by women. Each had her own story to tell. For four months "Mac" supervised her nurses under an almost steady thud of bombs overhead in the deep recesses of Malinta tunnel, after their hospital had been smashed to smithereens. GEN ORITA ROSE DURLAND, of Havana, has been appointed attache of the Cuban legation in London. She is one of the few women diplomats in the world. ESSIE SCHOFIELD, former superintendent of recreation for Salt Lake City, has accepted an appointment with the army and navy recreation program of the American Red Cross to work somewhere overseas. RS. GROVER RICH, of Utah, was elected president of the National Order of Women Legislators at the recent convention held in Annapolis, Maryland. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT would "~ not have any of her help working in slacks and anklets. She thinks they may be all right for young slender women or where a woman's work can be better done with the slack apparel, not otherwise. NELLIE MAY KUNKLE DORAN, a Utahn now living in California, has published a volume of verses called Autumn Leaves, and Olive Woolley Burt, another Utah poet, has issued an attractive children's book called God Gave Me Eyes; Nina Fedorova's new book The Children is full of beauty and tenderness; The Castle On the Hill is the name of a new novel by Elizabeth Goudge. [eX= THOMPSON BLEAK, 96, who remembered once having conversed with Abraham Lincoln, and Mary Ann Richards Fleet, go, both remarkable pioneer mothers, died last spring. LAST June women were admitted to Princeton University's engineering department—the first women ever admitted to Princeton. 475

Vol. 29 JULY 1942 No. 7 Where Have We Wasted? (Isaiah 58:3) [N a day when tragic war encircles the globe and new trials and sorrows must be met almost daily, Latter-day Saints may well turn with renewed zeal to those principles and practices which build the Church and bring spiritual strength to the individual. Among these is the fast observance, a practice that is too often neglected or not fully adhered to, and one whose blessings and power many of us are inclined to minimize. The principle of fasting is an ancient one. The prophet Joel instructed the people: '"'Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house of the Lord your God and cry unto the Lord." Zechariah 7:1 records: "Speak unto all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When ye fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years, did ye all fast unto me, even to me." The Savior taught us the great principle of fasting when for forty days and forty nights He fasted in the wilderness. Paul spoke of the fourteen-day fast of those who were with him in the boat as he journeyed to the courts of Caesar. The word of the Lord came to Latter-day Israel through revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1831 and again in 1832. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:76 says: Page 476 Also, I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth. Brigham Young, referring to the institution of the fast day in-modern times says: "Before tithing was paid, the poor were supported by donations, They came to Joseph and wanted help in Kirtland, and he said there should be a fast day which was decided upon.: It was to be held once a month... And all that would have been eaten that day, of flour, or meat, or butter, or fruit, or anything else; was to be carried to the fast meeting and put into the hands of the person selected for the purpose of taking care of it and distributing it among the poor." President Joseph F. Smith, in Gospel Doctrine tells us, "that the Lord has instituted the fast on a reasonable and intelligent basis," and that the "... Leading and principal object of the institution of the fast among Latter-day Saints was that the poor might be provided with food and other necessities." The prophet Isaiah recognized this value in the fast. He taught, as do all men inspired of the Lord, the necessity of those who have, sharing with those who have not; and he saw the' fast as a means whereby this might be done?not in a spirit of "strife and debate" but with a spirit of brotherly love and EDITORIAL self-sacrifice to "undo the heavy burdens." Speaking of the principle of fasting, Isaiah said: "Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor. That are cast out to thy house? When thou seest the naked that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?" Latter-day Saints are admonished to abstain from two meals one day each month and to give the full equivalent to the bishop as a fast donation for the care of the worthy needy of the Church. President Heber J. Grant has'told us that" "The fast day donation alone, if we were absolutely honest with the Lord would take care of the poor among us." He says: "You cannot get a good meal for less than ten cents, and twenty cents a month for every man, woman, and child in the Church would take care of those who need care and are not chronic beggars." The difficulty with most Latter-day Saints is that while they believe in the principle of fasting, recognizing the worth of the purpose for which the fast fund is created, yet they fail to conscientiously appraise their own expenditures for meals, and are inclined to be content to contribute the amount set by the Church as the minimum amount per capita?or even less. I would suggest that on the Sunday preceding next fast day that each mother keep close account of what she spends for the two Sunday meals, and that on fast day at least that amount be contributed as a fast offering.  I sometimes wonder how we would like to have the Lord, who 477 provides all things, give us our portion according to our own recorded fast-day contributions. While temporal needs make a fast day needful, the greatest value of the fast is the spiritual value. Those who have need of great spiritual strength have ever sought the Lord fasting even as did the Savior when He fasted in the wilderness; and many there are who attest to receiving through fasting and prayer increased spiritual strength sufficient unto their most pronounced needs. Alma rejoiced in the spiritual power of the sons of Mosiah, declaring it to be the result of fasting and prayer:
Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel first appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly to see his brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God.
But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught they taught with power and authority of God.?Alma 17:2-3.
Fasting engenders a love for the Lord and for one's fellow men. Those who neglect to fast neglect to fully develop within themselves the true spirit of love for God and man. Isaiah sets forth the rewards of righteous fasting thus:
Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; and the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward.
Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am.?Isaiah 58:8-9.
Grandmother Found A Way
Mabel Harmer
EVERY few days now the newspapers tell of some new commodity which can no longer be purchased because either the materials or the factory is needed for the purposes of war. Some of these items are luxuries which we relinquish with merely an inner sigh of regret, but others are things which we have come to regard as absolute necessities; and we wonder what in the world we will do when our electric flatiron or the garden hose gives out, and we are unable to purchase another.
Grandmother must have felt much the same when she packed the small space allotted to her in the covered wagon. It must have been very difficult for her to decide what she could best do without when there would be no store to supply even her most acute need. When she finally arrived in this barren land and had to make her home and most of its furnishings from whatever materials could be wrested from the land and mountain forests, she learned a great deal about inventive genius. Grandmother found a way, however, and so will we?although compared to hers, our lot is an easy one.
Our homes, for instance, are already built, as are plenty of roads, canals, and public buildings. We will not have to put up walls for protection from Indians, or fence our farms to keep out stray cattle and wild animals. Most of us probably have enough clothing on hand to last for some years with ingenious patching and remodeling. It may help some in the years ahead, when it may not be possible to supply all of our wants by merely telephoning to the store, to recall just what Grandmother did in order to provide her family with some of the necessities of life, to say nothing of the luxuries.
In the first place, there was the home itself to be built, and there was no great concern as to whether or not the priorities list excluded bathroom fixtures, doorknobs, and stokers. Practically the only question was whether to go to the mountains and bring down logs for building materials or to find a patch of good clay and make adobies. If the decision turned to adobies, the entire family pitched in and helped to mix the clay with sand and water until it was of the right consistency, and then they would pour the mush into the sanded molds. Every day the adobies were turned in the hot sun until they had thoroughly dried and were ready for use in building the walls of the house. If the home was built of logs, the walls were chinked inside and out and then plastered with a mixture of mud.
The door was hung from strong wooden hinges. For a long time there was no glass available, so a piece of greased factory cloth was substituted for windows, which allowed some light to come through and kept the cold out. Obviously the roof could be made of neither logs nor adobies, and since there was no way of making shingles, the pioneers looked about for the next best roofing, which proved to be rushes or willows laid over log rafters with a heavy layer of clay spread on top. This homely roof gave ample protection except in the case of a heavy rain when leaks would develop, and every pan and bucket in the house would have to be brought into use to catch the dripping water.
In southern Utah where timber was scarce and at a great distance from the townsites, the first shelters were dugouts or willow wigwams which were superseded as soon as possible by substantial adobe homes. The willow wigwams served well enough for protection against the sun but were practically useless when persistent rains set in. A few farsighted pioneers, who had plastered their wigwams inside and out with mud were forced to open their "homes" to their less fortunate friends or relatives.
Except for the few pieces that had been carried across the plains, furniture was fashioned entirely from the materials at hand. The fireplace was made of smooth flat rocks, and the food was cooked in kettles suspended from an iron rod over the fire. Bread was usually baked in Dutch ovens. The furnishings were very meager at first, consisting usually of beds, chairs, and a table. The beds were built in the corner of the room so that the walls could form two sides while the other two sides were made of rails or poles. Pegs were driven into the walls and rails, and strips of rawhide were stretched tightly across back and forth from peg to peg. This network composed the bed springs which made up in sturdiness what they lacked in "spring." Chair seats were constructed in the same manner.
EVEN before the house was built, the pioneer father had to find ways and means of planting and later harvesting his crops upon which his family's very lives depended. A few plows had been brought across the plains, but nearly all other farm implements were handmade; some people even had to make their own plows. Elias Adams made his from mahogany trees which grew upon the mountainside, carefully selecting limbs of the right size and shape. The handles of oak were attached to the plow with wooden pins and rawhide. The oxen were hitched to the mahogany limb forming the plowbeam, while another sturdy limb served as the plow, which literally rooted up the soil instead of making a furrow.
When the grain was ready to be cut, sickles were brought into use, or sometimes it was simply pulled with everyone in the family taking a hand. Threshing was carried on by whatever ingenious methods could best be devised. Any small amounts of grain, buckwheat, or beans were threshed with a flail. When the wind came up, the mother would sometimes perch herself on a high stool and, holding her pan of wheat to the wind would shake it so that the wheat would fall onto a cover on the ground while the wind would blow away the chaff. Two pans were used in this process. As soon as one pan was emptied, a child who stood by would hand up another panful of wheat. No matter how tired their arms became, they would continue this as long as the wind lasted.
After the wheat had been threshed, there was sometimes no way of grinding it, so occasionally the wheat was boiled with potatoes and eaten in place of bread. For leavening, the children were sent out to gather the thin, white crusts of saleratus that would appear on the surface of the wet ground. This had to be boiled in kettles; and after it had cooled and the sediments had settled to the bottom, the liquid would contain enough soda to make the bread rise. When the Danish immigrants came, the pioneers learned from them how to make yeast, and no longer had to gather their leavening from the ground.
Cooking utensils and kettles were much more rare than if the metals had been requisitioned for the building of airplanes. In Lehi, Utah, for instance, there was an old iron kettle owned by "Grandma" Jacobs that went the rounds to the neighborhood for the making of molasses. It was cracked in a number of places, and the pieces had to be held together by an iron band. While the cooking was going on, the cracks were filled with a flour paste.
Tubs, barrels, buckets, and milk containers were all made of cedar wood obtained from the mountains. Since there were no iron bands to put around the barrels, tough willow branches were substituted.
There were no light bills to make an unwelcome appearance on the first of every month. The first lights were made by putting a rag with a button tied to one end into a dish of melted lard or fat. The rag would be lighted and would burn for some time, giving out a feeble light. Before long, candle molds were procured and tallow candles were made. These served for many years until kerosene lamps were freighted in from the East.
Matches were also homemade of small splinters dipped in sulphur. They were very scarce, and the pioneers were usually careful not to let the fire go entirely out. It is safe to say, however, that there was little time spent in pining for brighter lights, and the pioneers usually got along cheerfully with whatever they had.
One woman said that during the Civil War her father used to get a paper by stagecoach or pony express about once a month. The neighbors were all anxious to hear the news, so they would flock to their place in the evening, and everyone would pitch in and build a big brush fire to furnish light so that her father could read the news to them.
AFTER the wear and tear of a long journey across the plains, it is not surprising that the need for new clothes became felt almost at once. Very few people had been able to bring any extra shoes along, and nearly everyone arrived in the Valley in dire need of new footwear. "There was only one shoemaker," says Mary Bennion Calder, "and oh, the vows that were made and broken. The first to be considered were the men who worked in the mountains. It was only the lucky ones who had shoes even for Sunday. In the winter time clogs were used principally. The little children had cloth shoes made by their mothers."
A wide variety of footgear soon came into fashion. Some of the pioneers obtained buckskin from the Indians for moccasins and cut pieces from tops of their old shoes for the soles. Other shoes were made with leather tops and wooden soles. One brother from Denmark brought tools for making wooden shoes, but the children had a hard time getting used to them and they were never very popular. One boy said that he tried to wear them, but they hurt his instep, and he had to carry them when he ran.
The shoemaker had to put the shoes together with wooden pegs, and making them was a long and laborious process. One man, who thought to earn a little money by making pegs, worked half the night at his task, and when he brought them to the shoemaker the next morning he was told that they would have to be seasoned. Taking them home, he put them in the oven and then went about his day's work. In the meantime, his wife made a fire in the stove, not knowing that the fruits of her husband's industry were in the oven, and the pegs were burned to a crisp. He had earned six cents making the pegs which had now gone up in smoke, and had broken the blade of a $1.75 knife besides.
By 1852, the business of tanning leather for the manufacture of shoes began to flourish in the Valley. An ad in the Deseret News, May 15, 1852, reads:
Wanted, beef and horse hides. Calf, sheep and dog skins. $1.50 for large hides; $1.60 for calf skins, free from cuts and damages. We also want oil from bear, horse, wolf or dog, or from cattle feet, or we will buy the cattle. Pine bark and sumac wanted. Let us have calf skins soon and you can wear boots of home manufacture.
The sources of new clothing were extremely limited, so it is not surprising that during the first year in the Valley, when everyone lived in the Old Fort, the wagon covers were put into the dye pots, colored blue, and made into dresses for the women and children and trousers for the men. Some women also took their bed ticking, colored it with kinnikinnick bark and made new dresses. The pioneers had brought a number of sheep with them, and before long the happy day arrived when Grandmother could have a new dress by shearing the sheep, washing and carding the wool, spinning and weaving the cloth, and then cutting out her dress and sewing it by hand. We can readily believe that Grandmother did not have a new dress every season.
By 1851, the fleeces could be cleaned at the millers, who advised that "those wishing wool to be carded had to furnish the necessary grease, one pound to eight pounds of wool, perfectly free from salt." It was no easy task to operate an old hand loom, but the finished product was definitely all wool and a yard wide. There was quite a variety of dye materials to be gathered from the orchard or forest. Wild greasewood or rabbit brush made a pretty yellow; green came from sage brush or from mixing the yellow with indigo blue; madder root, raised in the garden, produced the red dye; and black came from logwood root. By dyeing her yarn different colors, Grandmother could get variety in her dress and have two or three gay stripes around the bottom of her skirt.
HOME production was vigorously encouraged by Brigham Young, who desired above all things that the people of the Territory become independent. He was not alone in this attitude, as witness the following item which occurred in the Deseret News, January 10, 1852:
Captain Davis Evans, Representative from Utah County, has made his appearance in the representatives hall clad in his own family manufactured habiliments, worthy the imitation of a nabob. We understand his wife cut and made his garments as well as spun and wove the cloth. Mrs. Evans is worthy to stand by the side of the lady in the buckskin sack whose name will be forthcoming by and by. Legislators, what have you to say for home production?
One of the reasons for sending settlers the long distance to southern Utah was so that they could raise cotton which was likely to be more scarce than ever now that the Civil War was raging in the South. An early-day resident of Santa Clara said that he procured a dozen seeds from a family that had come from South Carolina, and he raised enough cotton to have the sad experience of trying to pick the seeds out by hand. These neighbors from the South also showed them how to make a little cotton gin, built on the same plan as a clothes wringer, equipped with very small rollers which turned in opposite directions. The cotton would go through the rollers and the seeds would be dropped on the near side. It was necessary for two people to run the gin, one for each roller. By hard work, they would get about two pounds of cotton lint and four pounds of seed in one day.
One pioneer girl wrote in her journal: "By the time cotton became rather plentiful we had none, but were permitted to glean those partly opened balls that were left when the neighbors were done with their fields. We gathered several sacks full. By the firelight in the evenings we shelled out the cotton. We dried it further in the sun. I traded mine to a peddler for calico. It was yellow with little red and blue flowers. I thought it very beautiful. I was then twelve years old, and in the six years I had been in America this was my first new dress."
Three dresses that made history were the handiwork of Mary Benson Hull of Franklin. They were made from flax that had been grown by her husband, and Mrs. Hull wove and dyed the material herself. Red, colored by madder root, blue from indigo bought in Salt Lake City, and green from a combination of burdock and indigo blue produced a beautiful plaid cloth which was fashioned into dresses with full skirts and tight basques. These dresses were considered the finest dresses in town.
Even the very young girls learned to weave cloth, and more than one pioneer lass had her first new dress after she was able to weave the cloth herself. One such was Eleanor Jarvis, who at the age of seven learned to spin and made many pounds of both cotton and woolen material. By spinning for her uncles, David and Angus Cannon, she earned a calico dress and a pair of shoes for herself.
Needles were very scarce and had to be guarded carefully. Another rarity was a flatiron. William H. Anderson, who was a blacksmith by trade, shod the mules for some of the soldiers in Johnston's army as they passed through. He saved enough of the tips cut from the nails to make a pair of tongs and a flatiron. It was the first of its kind in Manti and was "lent out to the girls to iron the ruffles on their best dresses."
HATMAKING was another art of pioneer days. After the harvest, the women would go into the fields and glean for straw, but sometimes a special patch of wheat was grown just for hatmaking. The finer straws were used for the best hats, which were braided of eleven straws, while seven straws sufficed for the work hats. The straws were soaked until soft and then braided while they were pliable. They were pressed with an iron under a damp cloth and then sewed together in the right size to fit the wearer's head. Trimmings usually consisted of handmade flowers fashioned either of colored straw, cloth, or horsehair.
In most communities there was probably a wide variety in the hat styles, but in Orderville, where all the work was done on a community basis, the hats were all alike; and it was said that an Orderville man could be identified by his hat as far as he could be seen.
Grandma Hafen of Dixie made hats for half the people in her town. Writing of her millinery activities, she said: "I guess in those days I made enough hats to fill a wagon box. I would trade them for the things we needed. I remember making a hat for Brother Holt. It was white and turned up around the edge one inch. In exchange he made me a potato masher and a rolling pin out of nice white cottonwood."
Making all of the family clothing by hand, in addition to raising the materials for making it, entailed a great deal of work, and certainly there was no leisure time problem to worry anyone in those days. Many a mother sat up nights weaving after her day's work was done. Social affairs usually had to be combined with work, and consequently the majority of such events were "bees" of some kind or another, depending on whether it was fruit that needed to be cut for drying, quilts to be made, spinning to be done, or even wood to be cut which might bring on a woodchopping bee for the men of the family.
The men and women who pioneered this territory left a marvelous record of what can be done under adverse circumstances, and their achievements may well be a shining light to guide this generation through the dark days of the present and what may be the lean years of the future. Certainly no one who reads of the records of hardships and accomplishments of early days can help but feel that there is no such thing as real privation in this present day.
NOCTURNAL VISITORS
Olive C. Wehr
Last night when all was dark and still, A ghostly legion came over the hill From out of everywhere; And I was unaware, Because they seemed so few and slight, How large they could loom up at night To frighten foolish me. But now, I laugh to see How daylight dwarfs those imps so small There's nothing left of them at all!
All Of Hers And Half Of His
Caroline Eyring Miner
MRS. BENSON dragged up from the garden a large baketin full of husked corn, three yellow squash, and four tomatoes. On the top of the full baketin was an aluminum bowl filled with string beans that she was supporting against her ample breast.
"I'll have to get at those weeds or I'll get lost out there," she half muttered to herself, "It's not much of a garden, but it's better than none. If only Henry would help me with it a little bit, or even take an interest in it the way most men do."
She came face to face with Henry, who was pushing the heavy milk cart with its full cans of milk up the incline that led to the milk room.
"Look, Henry, what we've got from our garden. Now that's worth a lot. (Surreptitiously she was trying to interest him in the garden, baiting him to fertilize it another year, or at least to see to its getting plowed without so much nagging.) Now you see," she went on, "corn at fifteen cents a dozen would make this worth?one-two-three-four-five," she counted rapidly, and then estimated liberally, "well, about fifty cents anyway, and there's squash and beans besides. Why, Henry, you surely can see a garden is worth-while?and to think how I have to nag and scold to get it plowed; and it never gets a bit of manure on it with a whole world of it out there." She pointed to the corral with its fertile yards. "It just makes me sick, Henry, and every year it's the same thing."
She was off again, and Henry who had really been touched with the financial argument drew in his ears and started rattling the old cart. Sara always ended up on the self-pity note, and it made him tired. But, he'd learned not to pay too much attention to it?just kept his mouth shut and let her think she did all the work.
Sara realized she'd failed again, and chided herself as she climbed the half-dozen steps to the screen porch. "Henry looks tired and thin, and the poor man does have a lot to do. I'll just have to set these in the kitchen and go down and help him. These things will wait. Anyway, I always could work circles around Henry. He's so everlastingly slow. I have to do all my work and then half of his, too." She rather enjoyed talking things over with herself?it somehow made things clearer.
She rushed to the stove, turned the burner on, grasped the kettle from its hook above the sideboard and filled it about two-thirds full of water. Then she put in a teaspoonful of salt and a cup of cracked wheat and put the lid on securely. "Now breakfast can be cooking while I help Henry with the milk. I know how to manage," she congratulated herself. "I don't make a lost move. Now Henry?he takes an eternity to do anything; has to have every detail just so before he'll start. If I worked the way he does, I'd never get anywhere either."
She was just starting down to help Henry when John, who was three, woke up. "Good land, Johnny, go back to bed quick, it's nighttime. Mama just has to help daddy, and then she'll be right back." But Johnny protested, and Johnny won out as he always did because he had such a loud voice which would wake the other three children who ranged in the regular "two-year stair step" order?five, seven, and nine. Pants and shirts and shoes and stockings were pulled onto Johnny's chubby body, and he was allowed to go with mamma to help daddy.
Twice while she was helping Henry and having to wait for him, Sara rushed to the house to stir the mush and slam a few dishes on the table. That was system for you! Why if Henry'd do that, she wouldn't have to do all of her work and half of his.
As she vigorously stirred the mush, the doorbell rang. Sara pulled a dress over Lora's head as she ran to the door. Lora had been wandering around for sometime in her nightgown.
"Well, for land sakes, come in, Janie. We haven't even had breakfast, but I'll go with you. Just take me a second to slip something on. Didn't you say the sale was at Goodwin's? Just a second?I've been helping Henry; I could manage my own work, but you know how it is with all of mine to do and half of his besides." She went to the basement door and called, "Henry, I'm going down to the sale at Goodwin's with Janie. Breakfast's on the stove. Now do eat and see that the children get a good breakfast. They must all get all their clothes on first, too. And Henry, please put these vegetables I got on to cook?the beans won't be ready for dinner if you don't. I ought to be right back."
WORTHY TO BE CALLED FRIEND
Gertrude Perry Stanton
Friends are celestial visitors on earth To comfort and to hearten us awhile, Each differing, as one star differs from Another in its glory, yet alike. They are not comets in erratic flight, Whose orbits seldom intersect our own; Nor meteors flashing once across the sky, Leaving the darkness blacker than before. But they are like the sun, whose healing warmth Means hope and joy and growth; or like the moon, Whose rays, serene and lambent, bring us peace. Perhaps some are more like the distant stars, Constant and faithful, above all earthly storms, Teaching the lesson of eternity. How rich is he who can claim many friends.
The Lure Of Melody
Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen Relief Society General Board Member
All we have willed or hoped or dreamed of good shall exist; Not its semblance, but itself; no beauty, nor good, nor power Whose voice has gone forth, but each survives for the melodist When eternity affirms the conception of an hour. The high that proved too high, the heroic for earth too hard, The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky, Are music sent up to God by the lover and the bard; Enough that he heard it once: we shall hear it by and by. ?From Rabbi Ben Ezra, by Robert Browning.
THE word "melody" is of itself so velvety-soft in sound that one can easily see why it was chosen as one of the hundred most beautiful and euphonious words in the English language. Poets have freely used this word to paint their loveliest word pictures.
Melody is defined as follows: "A succession of single tones, having the relationship of a given mode or key and of a rhythmical structure. Also, a symmetrical whole so formed; an air or tune."?Webster.
"Melody is an agreeable succession of single sounds, in conformity with the laws of rhythm and tonality."?Louis C. Elson.
We might simply say that melody is any series of single tones expressing a complete musical thought. It may consist of two or more phrases. The following songs are examples of this: "Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes"; "Praise to the Man"; "Blue Bells of Scotland." These are analogous to asking a question and receiving an answer.
There are three types of melody?spontaneous, synthetic, and analytic. A spontaneous melody is one that is conceived and written entirely as if it were a product of inspiration rather than one of effort, work, or creation. Schubert's "Serenade," and "Hark! Hark! The Lark!" are examples of spontaneous melody, as is also Mozart's "Lullaby."
A synthetic melody is one which is evolved and created from the nucleus of a small musical idea, a rhythmic pattern, or a melodic figure. (A rhythmic pattern or a melodic figure is any small group of notes by which a composition is identified.) It may consist of two, three, or more tones. Examples of this type of development are found in Haydn's "Surprise Symphony," Brahm's "Lullaby," "Sweet and Low," "Flag of the Free," and "Jesus, Once of Humble Birth."
An analytic melody is one in which the original melody is divided or subdivided into fragmentary units and reconnected with other thematic material. This has been done by most of the masters of composition, especially in their larger works. Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony" (First Movement) is a striking example of this procedure, as is also Mendelssohn's "Wedding March," pages 11 and 12 in the Kalmus Miniature Orchestra Score. The song "Monotone" by Cornelius is an example of a melody written on a single repeated tone.
THERE are various concepts as to where and when melody first came into existence. The theological version is found in Job 38:7: "When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?"
The scientific version is that, as soon as speech and rhythm proved inadequate to express the inner self, men began to refine their means of address by lengthening the vowel sounds. This was specifically for the purpose of attracting the opposite sex with more individual appeal. It is thought that the songs of birds or other sounds in nature played an important part in giving primitive man his first pattern for imitation.
As civilization grew in refinement and culture, naturally these intonations and utterances became more pleasing to the ear. Thus began the growth of melody. Gradually the common folk found that they could express their feelings and moods more completely and effectively through melody than through ordinary speech and gesticulation. Especially was this true when words were used with the melody. They then discovered that they could more fully express their common interests and experiences through this medium than through any other. This was the beginning of Folk-song, the song of the people. The following songs are of this type: "Old Folks at Home," "Old Black Joe," "Massa's in the Cold, Cold Ground," "Long, Long Ago," "Comin' Thro' the Rye," "Loch Lomond," "Annie Laurie," "The Last Rose of Summer," et cetera. The Folk-song may have many verses, but all are sung to the same melody.
As time went on and the individual singer began to assert himself, there was felt the need of another kind of song, one with more variety of melody, of contrast, and more delicacy. This led to the creation of the Art-song, the song of the artist. The following are examples of the Art-song: "None But the Lonely Heart," Tschaikowsky; "The Wanderer," "Ave Maria," and "The 23rd Psalm," by Schubert; "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice," Saint-Saens; "Elegy," Massenet; Chopin's "Nocturnes"; and all such numbers that require real artistic performance. The poem which is used for the Art-song consists of few verses and embodies more of the poetic and emotional element with less of the narrative.
MELODIES may induce particular moods. Some of these are faith, love, fear, reverence, sadness, joy, patriotism, et cetera. Because of this fact, choice of melody varies with people. Some persons are attracted to a Folk-song while others prefer the Art-song. This choice of melody is naturally predetermined by innate gift and by training and experience. This means that one will appreciate and enjoy a melody in proportion as he can comprehend its significance and value. Thus we can say, with the philosopher, that to gain the most from a melody one must "Light well the fagots ye have brought."
A melody, to be classed as good, must have symmetry, balance, unity, and variety throughout. There must be a total absence of anything monotonous, except in melodies which for characteristic purposes have been written expressly to show monotony. There must be purposeful and regular harmony of design in the development of figural or thematic material. There must be total agreement between all phrases and periods.
In order to become more appreciative of music, it is necessary for one to be constantly hearing and studying melodies. The conductor and accompanist should carry this consciousness of melody to the point of saturation so that in their chorus work they can keep bright this "golden strand" of melody and subdue all other parts in its favor. In order to properly interpret a composition, it is necessary to learn to recognize even the fragments of the original melody as they may occur in it. The promiscuous habit of expressing dislike for any melody, whether on first hearing or not, is a very harmful one and should never be allowed to take root nor to prevail.
SINCE the scale, major or minor, complete or fragmentary, ascending or descending, is the fundamental nucleus of all melody, it is obvious that mastery of melody is predicated upon proper and complete command of the scale. One should become thoroughly familiar with the scale in all of its various phases and qualities. Facility in this direction of musical culture may be acquired by studying our hymns and noting the use of the scale elements within them and the procedure of their characteristic developments. For example, in the hymns, "For the Strength of the Hills," (fifth complete measure) and "Sweet is the Work," (first four measures) there is a complete ascending scale. In the first line of "Redeemer of Israel," the scale appears minus the two top tones. In the hymn, "Father, Thy Children to Thee Now Raise," we find in the first measure, and ending on the first note of the second measure, a complete descending scale. There is also a descending scale passage in the first line of words in the song, "When Christ Was Born in Bethlehem." The scale appears in fragmentary design in the beginning of such hymns as "Come, Come Ye Saints," "Praise God From Whom All Blessings Flow," and "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet."
Those engaged in musical activities especially will find it most interesting and profitable to study songs and instrumental compositions with this same procedure. In this way only can the real meaning and beauty of the music be expressed.
If singing breath or echoing chord To every hidden pang were given, What endless melodies were poured, As sad as earth, as sweet as heaven. ?From "The Voiceless," By Oliver Wendell Holmes.
Following is a partial list of musical compositions the melodies of which can be classified as great:
"Evening Star," Opera, Tannhauser................Wagner "Tr?umerei"...................................Schumann "Serenade"...................................Schubert "Melody in F"................................Rubinstein "Home, Sweet Home"...........................Payne "Adagio" (New World Symphony)................Dvorak (Set to the words "Goin' Home") "Air for the G String".......................Bach "Spring Song"................................Mendelssohn "Prize Song," Opera, The Meister Singer.......Wagner Second Movement of Fifth Symphony............Tschaikowsky "Pilgrims Chorus," Opera, Tannhauser..........Wagner "Moonlight Sonata," First Movement...........Beethoven "Unfinished Symphony," First Movement.........Schubert First Movement of Sixth Symphony.............Tschaikowsky "None But the Lonely Heart"..................Tschaikowsky "Love's Dream"................................Liszt "Celeste Aida," Opera, Aida..................Verdi "The Last Rose of Summer".....................(Old English Air)
TO THE NAUVOO BELL
Mabel Jones Gabbott
Ring out, O Nauvoo Bell, ring out once more! Too long thou hast been cold and silent, hushed? As if the closing of Time's restless door Had locked thy sacred tales within, and crushed Thy soul that would ring out melodiously The story of a people great and good, Who dared to die for that which they believed.
Too long thou hast been stilled. What history Lies hidden in thy tones?misunderstood! How often thou hast pealed in joy, or grieved!
Tell of the ancient mold where thou wast wrought Before thou braved the fierce Atlantic's roar, When to the Nauvoo Temple thou wast brought Long years ago from England's distant shore; And rescued by the Saints from charred debris, By oxcart crossed the prairies vast and wide Unto the Valley, in the mountain tops.
Tell of the sacrifices made for thee, Of old and young who journeyed by thy side, Of deep-walled streams, sharp cliffs, and countless stops.
Once thou didst call the Saints to kneel in prayer Within His Holy House. Again they heard Thy clear tones fill the early morning air: The call to waken, march. Oft thou hast stirred The lagging spirit to take heart again. Thy vibrant tune has cheered the Saints of God To find new strength, new courage, hope renewed, As driven, homeless, weary, oft in pain, The long unbroken desert wastes they've trod, To reach at last the basin's solitude.
Ring out, O Nauvoo Bell, ring loud and long! Commemorate this glorious century, As from the campanile, in sweet, pure song Thy sacred tales resound in melody. Ring forth the message of our heritage, That God is truth, and truth will find a way. Tell of the courage of our Pioneers, Of faith unparalleled in modern age. Ring out again that in this latter day We may keep bright the trust of former years.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer
Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS
Denver Stake (Denver County, Colorado)
WANDA HAYCOCK, president of Pueblo Ward Relief Society, submitted the following report of activities commemorating the Relief Society centennial in the Pueblo Ward:
"On March 17, 1942, at 2:00 p. m., we held a program, then planted and dedicated our tree. In the evening, we presented our centennial program, which featured music by Singing Mothers, other musical numbers, and a play, 'Why Relief Society?' We played the record which was sent from Salt Lake, and then presented a candle-lighting ceremony, 'Progressive Candles.' After the program, cake, ice cream, and a favor were served to all attending."
The Pueblo Ward Relief Society had only thirteen members in 1937; by the close of 1941 it had enrolled ninety-three members.
Pasadena Stake (Los Angeles, California)
PASADENA Stake Relief Society, of which Irene Ethel Boice is president, submitted a detailed report of its centennial celebration. The following quotations are excerpts from this report, which was prepared by Constance B. Madsen, centennial director:
"At the beginning of the season a detailed plan was prepared, designed to bring into activity during the year every ward in the stake and every member in each ward in preparation for the general stake celebration. It was remarkable how well this plan was carried out. Hundreds of women were brought into activity, and each organization succeeded in weaving the year's work into the celebration plans. The culmination was the bringing together of all the wards' efforts into one great and memorable demonstration.
"The day [March 17] was one of those typically glorious Southern California days?such a day as might have greeted our Pioneer mothers of Relief Society as they gathered beneath a shady bowery on one of those proverbially rare days in June back in their mountain retreat. From every direction, pioneer-clad women flocked into the spacious patio of the Pasadena Stake Center, their arms laden with many types of pioneer-to-modern relics and trinkets. Each ward had been assigned a room in which to arrange its exhibits; and in busy-bee fashion, the Relief Society 'queens' from the ten wards of Pasadena Stake rapidly set up their displays in interesting, artistic arrangements. Thousands of items, many of great value, were displayed. Indeed, the vast crowd of people?approximately a thousand?who moved from room to room viewing the array of objects, acclaimed the exhibits as highly superior.
"One of the outstanding features of the celebration was the display of ward books. Each book was a compilation of art, history, gems of literature, pictures, music, and testimonies, tying in the lesson work of the year. Choice bits from the ward books were incorporated in a stake book.
"Apparently quite oblivious to the chaos of a war-torn world, the people assembled here in peaceful quietude for the first meeting promptly at ten o'clock in the morning. Harking back to the first meeting of the Society in Nauvoo, the inspiring hymn, 'The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning,' was sung with spiritual fervor. A unique welcome address was given, in which the theme of the occasion and the aim of the organization were cleverly presented. Next was a delightful tree-planting service at which the appropriate song 'Trees' was sung beautifully, and a lovely tribute was given. This was followed by ten instructive, educational demonstrations. On the tick of twelve o'clock noon, good, substantial, home-cooked food was served in pioneer motif. Although plans had been made to feed no more than four hundred, the food prepared amply served the large crowd of approximately one thousand people. At two o'clock, after dishes and tables were cleared away, original skits with a wide variety of themes were presented in the recreation hall by the ten wards. Awards were presented to the wards with the winning skits.
"As the golden sun sank in the western sea marking the close of another day, a benediction was pronounced upon this memorable commemoration of the founding of the Relief Society organization. It was a day filled with events and happiness that might easily linger for many years in the memory of all who attended."
MEMBERS OF PASADENA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD IN COSTUME AT STAKE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Front row, seated, left to right: Laura P. Cheney, secretary; Irene Ethel Boice, president; Sarah Harrison, first counselor. Standing behind President Boice is Maple Hutchins, second counselor; Constance B. Madsen, centennial director, is at extreme left.
North Central States Mission (Minneapolis, Minnesota)
ULRIKA COOK, president of Duluth Branch Relief Society, submitted the following report prepared by Magda Syrstad King, centennial committee chairman of this branch:
"A colorful centennial pageant, adapted and directed by Magda Syrstad King, with music arranged by Dorothy Anderson Topliff, was presented by the Duluth Branch Relief Society. The pageant included three parts, as follows: The first part, 'General History,' depicted highlights of service in Relief Society under the leadership of the eight general presidents. These characters were represented mainly by the older women of our branch. In their authentic costumes they made an inspiring contribution to the evening's entertainment. The members who had joined our branch during the membership drive wore formal evening gowns and carried pennants depicting the steps of progress during Relief Society's hundred years.
"The second part, 'Local History,' showed the development of the local branch over a period of twenty-three years, and the growth of the different activities. In part three, 'Gathering of Zion,' all members were dressed in the national costumes representative of the various countries from which converts had come to live within the near influence of the Church. This scene impressed upon the group the idea of universal brotherhood among peoples throughout the world.
"All three scenes were presided over by a symbolical figure of the 'Spirit of Relief Society' as a guiding influence in all activities of the organization. The Singing Mothers' chorus sang two centennial songs, the occasion being their first public appearance. Small souvenir booklets were given to all who were present as a memento of an evening long to be remembered in our midst. A birthday cake and ice cream were served, concluding the entertainment."
CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, DULUTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION
Rigby Stake (Rigby, Idaho)
ORA J. HENRY, first counselor in Rigby Stake Relief Society, reported the centennial celebration in Rigby First Ward, as follows:
"The Rigby First Ward Relief Society commenced observance of the centennial by presenting, in conjunction with sacrament meeting, Sunday evening, March 15, the one-act play, 'The Great Fig Tree,' by Joseph J. Cannon. The radio program, broadcast from station KSL, Salt Lake City, March 17, from 8:00 to 8:30 a. m., came in very clearly and distinctly and was enjoyed by many. For our tree-planting ceremony we planted two juniper evergreens near the entrance of our chapel.
"On the evening of March 17, a banquet was held in the stake tabernacle, where members and their husbands were seated at five long tables beautifully decorated with candles and flowers, gifts from the Sunday School, Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary. A large birthday cake decorated with one hundred candles was placed for the centerpiece. A splendid program was presented, and three charter members of our ward Relief Society?Sally A. Cordon, Mary Ellen Call, and Hattie Robins Williams?were honored. Mary Ellen Call was also especially honored as the mother present having the most daughters and granddaughters engaged in Relief Society work. Recordings extending centennial greetings from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman were played as part of the program, and were greatly enjoyed. A conjoint dancing party of the Rigby First and Second Wards concluded the day's entertainment."
RIGBY FIRST WARD TREE PLANTING CEREMONY, RIGBY STAKE Juniper trees planted in observance of centennial are shown on either side of group.
Nebo Stake (Utah County, Utah)
MAUDE LUDLOW, secretary of Benjamin Ward Relief Society, reports their centennial celebration, from which excerpts are quoted, as follows:
"Although our ward is small, a very fine centennial program was put over under the direction of President Elsie Cornaby. It began with a tree-planting ceremony at _ ten o'clock in the morning. At two o'clock, a program honoring the past presidents of our ward was given; and in the evening, a pageant, "The Wheels of Progress,? was presented. This was followed by a dance in the ward hall. All in all, it was an outstanding celebration showing the growth of Relief Society, and it was enjoyed by all who attended." Logan Stake (Cache County, Utah) ROVIDENCE Second Ward Relief Society, of which Edna B. Poulsen is president, reports a very successful and enjoyable centennial celebration. Excerpts from this report, submitted by Mrs. E. B. Maughan, follow: "We had the unique privilege of honoring the five presidents of our ward Relief Society, all of whom are still members of our ward. A pageant portraying the Relief Society activities of these presidents was presented, under the direction of Eliza Zollinger.  "The story of their lives is the story of the growth of the community.. In the early days, the women were called upon to act as doctors and nurses. They prepared bodies for burial, and, in some cases, even made the caskets. They made burial clothes and cared for the sick and unfortunate. Now, much of the 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1942 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING CEREMONY, MEXICAN-INDIAN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, JUAREZ STAKE work of the Relief Society is in support of the great welfare program of our Church?canning fruits and vegetables, remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. "From the beginning of our ward, the Relief Society has helped to raise funds for the maintenance of the ward, and has helped to beautify the ward chapel and grounds. "To see all this in pageant form was stimulating and thrilling indeed." Juarez Stake (Chihuahua, Mexico) NELLE S. HATCH, president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, reported that the centennial was fittingly observed with an appropriate program, pageant, banquet, and dance in each ward in the stake. The cantata, "Resurrection Morning," by the late B. Cecil Gates, was pleasingly presented in both the Juarez and Dublan Wards, in addition to a pageant depicting the growth of Relief Society in the Church, stake, and ward, and a one-act play entitled "Why?" The Chuichupa, Garcia, and Pacheco wards each held a banquet, at which a birthday cake with one hundred candles was conspicuous. Also, a program showing the growth of Relief Society in the Church and this ward was presented. Chuichupa Ward compiled a very interesting scrapbook containing pictures and autographs of the ward members, both past and present. The small branches located at Chihuahuz and at Cananea Sonora made the day a special occasion with a buffet supper and program and an interesting party, respectively. Twenty-seven centennial trees were planted throughout the stake, and each tree-planting was made impressive with an appropriate ceremony. The accompanying picture shows officers of the Mexican-Indian Branch Relief Society and their husbands at their tree-planting ceremony. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 497 CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, EVANSTON SECOND WARD, WOODRUFF STAKE Woodruff Stake (Lincoln and Uinta Counties, Wyoming; Rich County, Utah) HARLOTTE BURLEIGH, sectetary-treasurer of Evanston Second Ward Relief Society, submitted the following report of this ward's centennial celebration: ""A Centennial Birthday,' a pageant written by Esther Warburton, assistant secretary-treasurer, depicting the organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and portraying the progress and achievement made by Relief ? Society, was presented by the Evanston Second Ward. The Singing Mothers' chorus, directed: by Miss Nellie Davies, contributed the music for the pageant. In the finale, the chorus and cast of the pageant sang 'A Song of Tnumph,' which was written for the centennial by the late Beatrice F. Stevens." In the background of the accompanying picture can. Be seen a representation of "The Spirit of Relief Society" and a large birthday cake under the "Arch of 'Triumph." ERRATUM Martha McBride Knight HE article, "The Eighteen Charter Members of Relief Society," by Marjorie M. Woolf, published in the May issue of the Magazine, page 306, states: "Her (Martha Knight) descendants, the Knights of Provo, are glad to remember Martha as their kin.'" Mary Belnap Robbins, of Smithfield, Utah, in a letter written May 30, 1942, states that, '"'Martha McBride Knight is not related to the Knights of Provo." MY SON PASSES Zina Card Brown My hearth is cold. The gray ash of loss is sprinkled on my brow. The sackcloth of lost dreams will not warm my leaden heart. I sit numb with shock. Till by-and-by memory fans to feeble life The coals that were so dead. "Tis a baby's smile that flickers Through those sodden coals?his first smile in my arms. It reveals the torch of faith I had let fall. On bended knee I grasp that torch and hold it once again To my sleeping hearth. It wakes to life anew, For I have added fuel of trust. Thus kneeling, With prayer's sweet mantle securing me from doubt's assailing blast, I feel my spirit warm within my breast. As I lift my head To smile at Hope, the last ash of my despair slips from my brow And is carried away by the gentle breeze of lcve That wafts itself from other hearts to mine. Oh magic breeze that whispers of that greater love that holds Its promise of eternal joys, whose embers ever glow?embers that Burst into light and warmth! Higher and yet higher grows the flame, Until that shaft of holy fire breaks through the veil of doubt's dark wall, And I behold the portals of that home where death has dropped his mask; I see the spirit born anew; earthly vestures fall away And reveal the splendor of the new-born soul. Symphonies of light and sound pour round me till my whole being vibrates To that great harmony. Exultant I see my child, a child no more, But come to man's estate and clothed in holy robes On which his earth life left no stain. O Holy One, hear my song of praise; keep bright this vision, That my steps shall tread the beam that lights my way to thee; Nor let me step aside until I too shall join the circle of Thy love Where dear ones gone before will take my hand. May this my first-born son be then my guide to one of Thy many mansions Which he was called to make ready for his own. Forgive the clouding doubt That one instant hid Thy face from mine. With my face toward the light I shall walk by faith until my summons comes. Dear Father, through Thy Son I pray and praise Thy holy name, And with full heart, made glad by Thy redeeming love, I humbly say, "Thy will be done." The above lines were written by Zina Card Brown, mother of Hugh C. Brown, after receiving a cable from the British War Office advising that he was listed as "missing in action" March 16, 1942, while flying with the Royal Air Force somewhere in England. LESSON, Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 9 The Sacrament Of The Lord's mee (Tuesday, October 6, 1942) Condensation of Chapter 9 of Articles of Faith by Talmage EH DEPARTMENT (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Sacrament After Jesus had instituted the sacrament of bread and wine among the Nephites, he said: "And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in my name;" (3 Nephi 18:11) It is in connection, then, with the fourth "'Article of Faith," that we study the sacrament. Institution of the Sacrament Among the Jews The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was instituted by Christ on the night before His crucifixion when He and His apostles were met in an upper chamber to observe the Jewish feast of the Passover. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." (Matthew 26:26- 28). Institution of the Sacrament Among the Nephites Christ visited the Nephites shortly after the ascension from Mount Olivet as recorded in 3 Nephi, chapters 11-26, inclusive. During His first visitation He instituted the sacrament among them. (3 Nephi 18; 3 Nephi 26:13) Fit Partakers of the Sacrament In the primitive church, Paul gave explicit directions concerning those who should partake of the sacrament. (I Cor. 11:26-30) While instructing the Nephites, Jesus laid great stress upon the fitness of those who partook of the sacrament. (3 Nephi 18:28, 29) In relation to the instructions given us in our day see Doctrine and Covenants 20:75 and 46:4.
Purpose of the Sacrament
From scriptural citations it is plain that the sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of Jesus; it is a testimony before God that we are mindful of His Son's sacrifice made in our behalf; that we profess the name of Christ and strive to keep His commandments that we may have His Spirit to be with us.
The Sacramental Emblems
Among both the Jews and the Nephites, Christ used bread and wine as the emblems of His body and blood. Soon after the Church was organized in the present dispensation, as the Prophet Joseph Smith was about to purchase wine for sacramental purposes, a messenger from God met him and said, "... It mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory.... Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine... Of your enemies...." (Doctrine and Covenants 27:2-4) Upon this authority, Latter-day Saints administer water in preference to wine.
Manner of Administering the Sacrament
It is customary for Latter-day Saints to hold sacramental meetings every Sabbath in their wards and branches. The authority of the priest of the Aaronic order is requisite in consecrating the emblems. The manner of administering the sacrament and the prayers to be given in consecrating the emblems are recorded in Doctrine and Covenants 20:76-79.
LESSON PLAN
Lesson Aim: To develop an understanding of the value and purpose of the Sacrament
Suggested Material Outline
I. The Lord's Supper A. The Origin The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was established by Jesus on the night of His betrayal and following the Passover meal which He and the Twelve kept in obedience of the Jewish law. He broke bread and blessed it and passed it to the others and said: "Take, eat; this is my body"; (Matthew 26:26) "... This do in remembrance of me." (Luke 22:19) After blessing wine, he said: "Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." (Matthew 26:27-28)
B. Its Purpose
C. Nature of the Emblems "... It mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory?remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins." (Doctrine and Covenants 27:2)
D. Manner of Administering the Sacrament Specific instructions are given in Section Twenty of the Doctrine and Covenants.
E. Fit Partakers Read 3 Nephi, 18:28-29. We should keep ourselves "worthy to partake of the sacred emblems" by a true faith in Jesus and His teachings and by genuine repentance.
II. The Sacrament is Analogous to a Weekly Baptism
At the time of baptism we publicly demonstrated, as best we could for our age and experience, that we were on the road to perfect faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that we had discovered and expected to continue to discover through practical experience, the saving power of true repentance. The partaking of the emblems of the sacrament is a weekly reminder that our faith in Jesus needs expansion and that repentance can still be an active force in our lives as we struggle toward perfection. In this sense the sacrament is analogous to a weekly baptism, and through it the child of eight, and in fact all of us, can move toward a fuller understanding of the saving power of faith, repentance, baptism, and all the principles of the Gospel.
III. The Sacrament as an Aid in Worship
Because of the music and the atmosphere of peace and quiet during the passing of the sacrament, an attitude of meditation is rather easily acquired. In this situation it seems natural to seek God. Genuine worship goes forward with comparative ease. Probably no other aspect of church service is so conducive to genuine worship. Because of this, the wise person makes use of this weekly opportunity to worship?to seek God, to find Him while solving a problem, and to adjust to the new "vision."
Suggested Method Outline
I. The subject, "The Lord's Supper," might be assigned to a member of the class as a talk. The passages of scripture cited should be read in an impressive manner.
II. Following the introduction to the topic, "The Sacrament is Analogous to a Weekly Baptism," the teacher might ask such questions as these: In terms of affecting one's way of life, how are the sacrament and baptism alike? Why is the sacrament so important in the life of the child who is baptized at the age of eight? Just how does the sacrament help build a fuller understanding of faith, repentance, and baptism? How does the sacrament help a person to build a Christ-like life?
III. After introducing the subject, "The Sacrament as an Aid in Worship," the teacher might lead the members of the class to describe the religious experiences which they have had during the passing of the sacrament. Such expressions are so personal that care will need to be exercised, but if the responses are free much good will result. The members might be asked to actually test out the sacrament period as a time for genuine worship. Each member should be urged to evaluate within herself the results. Such a project could lead to marked religious development.
IV. Mothers could be urged to teach their children respect for the sacrament period during a meeting by assisting the child to have a more complete understanding of its significance. As a closing sentiment, the teacher might conclude thus: "One need not languish for want of spiritual nourishment. Jesus promises, 'I am the bread of life; he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth in me shall never thirst.'"
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Lesson I Scripture Reading As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, October 6, 1942)
THE Bible has for centuries been regarded as the word of God. The Latter-day Saints also look upon the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price as the word of God. Our range of scripture thus becomes larger than that of any other Christian people.
In various ages the Lord has enjoined upon the Saints the necessity of scripture reading and study. Jesus tells us to "search the scriptures." (John 5:39) In our own time the Lord has said, "... Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also my word which shall come forth." (Doctrine and Covenants 11:22) Clearly the word that "hath gone forth" refers to the Bible; that which "shall come forth," to the Book of Mormon.
As a guide for living, the scriptures are unsurpassed. They are intimate, personal, and they touch the innermost life as well as our daily relationships and our attitudes toward God. They also form the basis of the civil and religious laws governing groups. The "Decalogue" is the foundation of secular government in most civilized countries. "The things which thou hast received in my scriptures," the Lord has told us, constitute "my law to govern the Church."
The power of the scriptures is shown by the influence they have had in molding the lives of men of all nations in all ages. The change which Christ's life and teachings work in people's thoughts and acts is a continuing miracle. Christ spoke to mankind in the language of love, which is the language of sacrifice. "In suffering for the world [He] adopted the only means of reaching the heart. The story of His life, His teachings, His sufferings, and His death has been translated into every language, and everywhere it has reached the heart."
In these times there is a special need for a sure guide to living, and this we can find in the scriptures. To be a good Latter-day Saint requires, however, not only prayer and meditation, but also study. "The Kingdom of God is like a treasure buried in a field, to be found by him who seeks it diligently."
It is not enough merely to know the scriptures; their teachings must be applied in our lives. Ideals and information are of little or no use unless we express them in our personal behavior and human relations. Some people know the scriptures only in a vague, indefinite way, depending on what they hear in religious gatherings. That is not enough. One must read and discover for himself the truths which they contain.
The custom of scripture reading in the family should be revived among us. Time can be found to do this if we have the will to do so and the faith that in the scriptures we shall find the way to the abundant life.
Discussion
1. Suggest ways of systematic, personal study of the scriptures.
2. Which would be more valuable to the family, individual or group reading of the scriptures?
3. Suggest ways of getting young people interested in a study of the scriptures.
Work-and-Business
NO lesson is published for the work-and-business department in this issue of the Magazine, as it is the plan of the General Board to make the subject matter for the course "New-Fashioned Thrift" as current as possible. The first lesson, "Peace vs. Wartime Habits," to be presented in the wards October 13, 1942, will appear in the August issue of the Magazine.
Literature
The Bible As Literature
Lesson I Why The Bible Should Be Studied As Literature (Tuesday, October 20, 1942)
(Class leaders should keep constantly in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature, and makes no attempt at interpretation of theological problems.)
Objective: To indicate some of the values to be gained from the study of the Bible as literature.
Lesson Topics
1. Why the Bible has not been widely studied as literature
2. Why it should be so studied
3. Two methods by which the Bible might be studied
Recently the United States Army began to distribute more than a million Bibles among the soldiers. President Roosevelt, commending the action, said:
Throughout the centuries men of many faiths and of diverse origins have found in the sacred book words of wisdom, counsel, and inspiration. It is a fountain of strength, and now, as always, an aid in attaining the highest aspirations of the human soul.
Many have deplored the fact that the Bible is not more widely read. Benjamin Franklin was at one time associated with a group of self-styled intellectuals in Paris. The general attitude of these people toward the Bible and anyone who took it seriously was scornful. They appeared to think that to read or quote the Bible was the mark of the ignorant. At the same time they were enthusiastic over ancient writings of races and religions other than those of the Hebrews and the Christians. At their meetings they would praise the beauty, spirituality, and profundity of such writings. The aim of each member of the club was to discover some new treasure from the Orient and bring it to share with the other members.
When it became Franklin's turn to entertain the group, he hired a famous actress to learn and recite the "Book of Ruth." He said: "I have found an ancient idyl which I think is unknown in Paris; certainly known to very few. I have brought a translation to lay before you. But to do full justice to the singular beauty of this masterpiece, I have brought this actress, whom you all know and admire, to present it to you."
The listeners were so moved by the pathos, the charm, the spirituality of the idyl that they exclaimed over it, and lamented that they had never heard of it before. When they had gone to extremes in their applause and praise, Franklin said: "This idyl is from the despised Bible?well-known to all Christian ignoramuses?in which book, if you care to look, you will find more and better literature."
Perhaps this story seems an exaggeration. But Bruce Barton in The Book Nobody Knows suggests that somewhat the same condition exists here and now.
Why the Bible Has Not Been Widely Studied As Literature
Wallace A. Armstrong, in How to Study the Bible, says he feels that the reason the Bible is not more widely read today is, in part, because the Bible, unfortunately, is not presented for reading or study in the form of other books, but is divided into paragraph verses, numbered in order. It is evident that this arrangement of Bible content has been productive of much ignorance concerning the real meaning, the larger truth of many of its books. It has led to the use of the Bible as a sort of "dictionary of religion," and little more. It has come to be, as Doctor Armstrong says, simply "a collection of texts to which we may go to gather ammunition, now to bombard an enemy, now to defend ourselves."
We must never forget that the chief value of the Bible is and will remain its religious value. But we should realize also that it has other rich values when regarded simply as literature. Dr. Richard Green Moulton in the chapter, "The Bible as Literature," in his World Literature emphasizes this point. He says the Bible is not only a source of spiritual life, but that it is something besides. It is, by the very meaning of the word Bible, literature; for Bible means a collection of books. Extreme reverence for its religious value has kept people from recognizing its literary values. In reality, if it is studied as literature, it more readily gives up its greater religious value. The discrimination of the literary forms in the Bible is essential for the full interpretation and force of the great book.
Why the Bible Should Be Studied as Literature
First of all then, the Bible should be studied as literature because such a study is a necessary adjunct to a proper spiritual interpretation of it. It is Doctor Moulton's opinion that, "It is only when each literary section has been understood as a whole in its plain or natural meaning that it is safe to go forward to the deeper spiritual signification."
Be that as it may, it is true that it does have the values that other great masterpieces have, for it is recognized as the greatest literature ever written. A few days before Sir Walter Scott died, he said to his son-in-law, Lockhart, "Read to me from the book." "What book?" he was asked. "Need you ask?" the great writer of many books replied. "There is but one."
But the Bible is more than a book; it is a library containing fifty-six different books, yet all are woven into one literary unity. As Bruce Barton says, "This great masterpiece contains many treasures." He emphasizes four. He says that first it gives a bird's-eye view of the development of civilization. It is a religious and historical record, starting with the origin of the earth, portraying the rise of nations, the development of a particular people and their emergence into national life, their rise and fall, their contact with the civilizations of Greece and Rome, and so on.
He next points out that the Bible offers an unmatched revelation of human nature, and that it has power to develop the best in man. He calls it "the world's best textbook in human nature," and quotes the following from William Lyon Phelps:
"Everyone who has a thorough knowledge of the Bible may truly be called educated; and no other learning or culture, no matter how extensive or elegant, can, among Europeans and Americans, form a proper substitute. Western civilization is founded upon the Bible: our ideas, our wisdom, our philosophy, our literature, our art, our ideals come more from the Bible than from all other books put together. It is a revelation of divinity and of humanity.... I thoroughly believe in a university education for both men and women; but I believe a knowledge of the Bible without a college course is more valuable than a college course without the Bible. For in the Bible we have profound thoughts beautifully expressed; we have the nature of boys and girls, of men and women, more accurately charted than in the works of any modern novelist or playwright. You can learn more about human nature by reading the Bible than by living in New York."
He says the third treasure is the Bible's story of the most successful life ever lived?the life of Christ which, after two thousand years, if His teachings were followed, would transform individuals and countries.
And fourth is the great book's purely literary offering. The Bible is the greatest literature of all ages, including proverbs, essays, orations, short stories, poems, dramas, and other types of literature. On this last point William Lyon Phelps says:
"Priests, atheists, skeptics, agnostics, and evangelists generally agree that the Authorized Version of the English Bible is the best example of English literature that the world has ever seen. It combines the noblest elevations of thought, aspiration, imagination, passion and religion with simplicity of diction."
He says that the characters are just as real to him as great men of our time. The book reveals the baseness of human nature and its folly, but it reveals also the grandeur and nobility of mankind.
Doctor Moulton points to the fact that our English civilization in all its varied phases sprang from two roots?Greek and Hebrew. That is another reason why we should study the literature which is the record of one of the foundation civilizations upon which our own rests.
As literature, the Bible can give us a widening of intellectual horizons, an enrichment of emotional experiences, an elevation of ethical standards, and, in addition, a delight in the charm and beauty of its style.
The Bible has had far-reaching influences upon other literature. It has inspired great dramas, novels, lyrics, and other types. Athalie, a tragedy by Racine; Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistes by Milton; "Saul" by Browning; Joseph and His Brothers, and other novels by Thomas Mann are but a few of the literary masterpieces either based upon or inspired by it. In addition to these pieces of literature, which have been completely influenced by the Bible, there are countless others which have been influenced in their messages, or beauty of style through allusions or figures of speech based upon it. Dante refers to the Bible hundreds of times in his Divine Comedy; Shakespeare and many others have reflected its influence over and over again.
What is true of the influence of the Bible upon literature, is also true of its influence on the other arts. Everyone has heard of the famed picture, "The Last Supper," by da Vinci, in Milan; of "The Last Judgment," in the Sistine Chapel of the Vatican; of the statue of Moses in St. Pietro in Vincoli, Rome. In fact, there are literally thousands of pieces of art based upon Biblical subjects. The beautiful madonna paintings by such masters as Frere, Bellini, Fabriano, Morelli, Ferrari, and Sassoferrato; the famous masterpieces inspired by the life of Christ, including "The Holy Family," the "Last Supper," the "Crucifixion," the "Transfiguration," by Murillo, da Vinci, Titian, Raphael, and others indicate something of the profound influence of the Bible upon painting. Equally striking examples may be found in the field of sculpture. Mention has already been made of Michelangelo's "Moses" (in St. Pietro in Vincoli, Rome). In St. Peter's, in Rome, is his lovely "The Piety," a statue of the mother of Jesus holding His crucified body in her arms. There are other pieces equally famous, not only by the older masters, but also by later ones. Among these famous pieces are the "Christ" and the "Apostles" by Thorvaldsen.
Music has offerings equally rich. Everyone knows and loves Handel's "The Messiah." Volumes of sacred hymns and anthems have come from passages in the Bible. It is quite evident, then, that to receive the most from these arts so influenced by the Bible, we need to know the literature which inspired them.
Two Methods of Studying the Bible as Literature
Many ways to study the Bible as literature have been offered by different writers. The following methods are suggested by Doctor Moulton: after the Bible has been restored to its full literary form (an essential for any literary study), it may be considered book by book?each book being regarded as a separate unit. The different books have intrinsic values in themselves. They should be classified according to their types; their various literary values should be emphasized; for instance, we should ask whether each book restores the past, holds up before us some ideal, gives us a deeper insight into human nature, etc.
Or the Bible may be studied as one large unit?an autobiography of a chosen people?holding within this historic framework many smaller units, such as short stories, dramas, poems?in short, all types of literature. (Doctor Moulton's The Modern Reader's Bible, with its notes, is adapted to the latter method.)
However, before the study of Bible literature itself is undertaken, consideration must be given to background and other related aspects of the study.
Lesson Helps
1. Discuss briefly some pieces of literature inspired by the Bible, such as "The Leper" and "Jephthah's Daughter" by N. C. Wallis, and "The Lost Word" by Henry Van Dyke.
2. Explain allusions to the Bible or figures of speech based upon it, found in some poems not using a biblical theme.
3. Show pictures of some painting or sculpture inspired by the Bible and give significant facts about the artist.
4. Compare Doctor Moulton's Modern Reader's Bible or Bates' The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature with ordinary versions, and point out how these books aid a study of the book as literature.
5. Read a choice excerpt from the Bible and discuss its literary merits.
References
(These books are listed here with the hope that possibly some of them may be available in public or school libraries, or elsewhere in local communities.)
Wood and Grant, The Bible as Literature Dinsmore, C. A., The English Bible as Literature Armstrong, Robert A., How to Know the Bible (Chapter III) Moulton, Peters, Bruce, The Bible as Literature (Introduction and Chapter I) Barton, Bruce, The Book Nobody Knows Bower, William, The Living Bible Moulton, Dr. R. G., The Modern Reader's Bible Bates, Ernest S., The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature Battenhouse, H. M., The Bible Unlocked Goodspeed, Edgar J., The Story of the Bible Goodspeed, Edgar J., The New Testament?An American Translation
Social Science
What America Means
Lesson I America, The Land Of Promise (Tuesday, October 27, 1942)
(Class leaders are warned to present the lesson and direct class discussion along the broad basic principles upon which the Government was founded. Partisan issues should be avoided.)
"... Look unto the rock whence ye are hewn." (Isaiah 51:1.)
"The story of the colonization of America is a fitting prologue to the telling of its purpose. Both natures of man invited him to the new world. The quest for gold was one. Many early attempts at colonization owe their beginning to the incentive of wealth. But the better nature of man summoned him to America in search of treasures richer than gold: his quest was for freedom, liberty, and equality of rights. Then the common people sought a haven in America because of religious persecution. Left alone to the task of clearing the wilderness, the colonists succeeded, without the aid of the parent government, and gardens and fields replaced the wilderness."?Snyder, America's Purpose.
AMERICA, throughout the centuries, was unknown to the people of Europe. It was a virgin land. Great forests covered the country from Maine to Florida and westward to the prairies beyond the Mississippi River. There were the buffalo, the deer, the bear, the moose, and elk, as well as the smaller animals. The timber wolf prowled through the forests, and the only inhabitants were the Indians. There were minerals?gold, copper, silver, coal, and every other precious metal known to man. The rivers were big enough to carry ships, and little did the early settlers dream of the great power locked up in the mountain streams. It was a "Land of Promise," and the early pioneers could well quote the words of Moses:
For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills; a land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey; a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass. When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land He hath given thee. (Deuteronomy 8:7-11.)
In tracing the history of our forefathers back to Europe, we find that their roots lie deep in the past of European nations from which came the multitude of immigrants, who with their descendants have peopled the United States. Many of our institutions, as our language, came to us from England, and "we must take account," says James Truslow Adams, "of influences from the many ancestral lands whence our people descended, but as generally understood and accepted by us, our history begins with the first discoveries and settlements along our coasts, little more than four centuries ago."
While the Spanish and French came to the shores of America in the sixteenth century, little influence did they have on the future of American civilization within the confines of the present United States. England was the first of the great nations to make permanent settlements. Puritanism was one of the forces of the age when England sent forth her colonists to these shores. The Puritans were made up of all sorts of minds, from those of the great noblemen and thinkers like Milton to the illiterate people of the soil. Great trading companies came into existence, and it was some of these companies that encouraged the colonization of the New World.
We do not wish to infer that the Puritan movement to America was exclusive of all other religious groups. Far from it! There will be people who lead these lessons who are descendants of the Quakers and other religious groups, but we emphasize the Puritan movement as an example of the qualities that Englishmen had in their national life four hundred years ago.
THE English people had a burning desire in their hearts to come to the New World where they could have their own homes and worship God as they pleased. They were not afraid to brave the unknown Atlantic in old wooden ships no larger than our ferry boats of today. They came with visions of a new life, but little realizing that their children would in future days be stirred to the loftiest thoughts and to greater religious and political ideals.
England, the three Scandinavian countries, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Holland, Russia?in fact, every European country?contributed to the settlement of America. Our English forebears took the lead, and our institutional life is almost wholly English. They all had religious and moral qualities, which gave wholesome sanction to differences of opinion. Although separated from Europe by the Atlantic Ocean?a much wider barrier in the early days of small, slow sailing vessels than now?the Eastern coast of America was within easier reach of the English, French, and Dutch than was any other lands these people could occupy. This helped in keeping in touch with the thought and culture of an old civilization.
By the time of the American Revolution, there were many religious sects settled along the Atlantic seacoast?Puritans, Quakers, Lutherans, Catholics, Baptists, members of the Church of England, Moravians, Methodists, and many others. The first settlements were English with some scattered neighbors from Holland, Germany, and France, showing that the roots of America go deep into Europe.
Throughout the ages, the English people had been developing their democratic government which rests on the will and consent of the people. In the year 1215, the Magna Carta was granted by King John, and centuries later the Petition of Right and the Bill of Rights guaranteed to the people such fundamentals as the right of trial by jury, the right to petition the King in case of grievance, freedom of speech in Parliament, and other elements of political rights which form a part of the English institutions. The Bill of Rights, particularly, was the forerunner of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, for it granted religious freedom and the freedom of the press?books were to be printed freely without censorship.
A new age had come to England as a result of the Protestant Revolution, and the Holy Bible was printed in the English language. Among the Puritans, Quakers, Lutherans, and all the Protestant sects, the teachings of the Bible became the divine standard of right living and thinking; at the same time, they found in the sacred volume the treasures of the noblest literature unrolled before them. They and their children read the "Book of Job," the prophecies of Isaiah, and the revelations of St. John. John Fiske tells us that it was a time when no English literature existed for the common people, but this "untold wealth of Hebrew literature was implanted in the English mind as in a virgin soil." To its pages they went for daily instruction and comfort, and with its strange Semitic names they baptized their children, and from its precepts they sought to build within the hearts of their children a rule of life that would "renew a right spirit within them." The holy scriptures gave them life and the vigor of new ideals. While at times there were violent manifestations of discontent, the different sects regarded the Bible with sacredness of feeling. In twenty years, twenty thousand Englishmen fled from England to join the Pilgrim fathers, and hardly a family was without a Bible, which accented to every man that he is a child of God.
PERSECUTION of one sect by another was not uncommon. The Puritans hated the Quakers, and as for the Catholics, all the Protestant sects were opposed to them, and yet in 1649 the Catholics in Maryland passed the first religious tolerance act in our history. A great lesson for our day is given in the history of Roger Williams, the founder of Rhode Island. Among all the Puritans who came to New England, there is no more interesting figure than he. This young preacher announced the true principles of religious liberty with a clearness of insight quite remarkable for his time. He wrote a pamphlet in which he denied the right of the colonists to claim the lands of New England. He held that the soil belonged to the Indians, and that the settlers could obtain a valid title to it only by purchase. When the Quakers were persecuted in Rhode Island, he led in issuing the statement: "We have no law amongst us whereby to punish anyone for only declaring by words their minds and understandings concerning the things and ways of God as to salvation and our eternal condition.... Let us not be compelled to exercise any civil power over men's consciences."
Such was the humble beginning of the great Puritan exodus from England to America which had so much to do with the founding and peopling of the United States. The Pilgrims of the Mayflower were but the pioneers of a mighty host. There were only one hundred and two on board the Mayflower, and over half of them died the first winter. At one time the living were scarcely able to bury the dead. At first they were crowded under a single roof, and the Indians brought them corn. During the first spring and summer, twenty-six acres of land were cleared, and a plentiful harvest gathered. Governor Bradford appointed a day of Thanksgiving. Town meetings had been held and a few laws passed. The New England town government was established throughout New England, and when the towns united in 1642, the people sent from each town representatives to a general court. This was the beginning of representative or republican government in America.
THERE is a noble truth to remember about the settlement of America by the English and other European peoples. Here in name and truth the Creator was confessed. His law was authority, and His Providence was trusted. The name of the Son of Man and His teachings were honored. The day of His birth and His rising from the dead were commemorated. It seems that the settlement of America and the formation of the Republic of the United States was an event ordered of God, for the bringing of His kingdom upon the earth. A republic is the highest form of political institution, so D'Tocqueville wrote, and the highest form of republic is one made of different nationalities, brought under one government and one flag. Such a republic was unknown, and the time came for it, and this was the only land where a nation of this kind was possible. The continent had been concealed until the right men, rightly trained, could build their homes in the wilderness and hold the ground for a purpose higher than they knew.
Governor John Winthrop of the Massachusetts Bay Company wrote in 1630: "The planting of New England will be a service to the Church of great consequence to carry the Gospel into those parts of the world, to help in the coming of the fullness of the Gentiles."
Orson F. Whitney, in his Saturday Night Thoughts, speaking of the restoration of the Gospel says of America: "In no other country on earth, without special divine interposition in its behalf, would this great and marvelous work have been permitted to come forth."
The American colonies became a republic, the first of its kind in the history of the world.
Suggestions for Study
Your lessons should suggest to you many topics for study. You will naturally choose subjects according to your likes. Recently a student said: "I would rather study the history of the Quakers in America than any other subject." So it will be with you. Try to find subjects in all the lessons that interest you, and study them.
For this lesson, we suggest for outside study, the Reformation in England, and the printing of the English Bible.
Why do we say: "The English colonists brought the Bible and the name of Jesus Christ to the world?" Give all the examples you can to prove this statement.
What do you think of the statement: "The settlement of America and the formation of the Republic of the United States was an event ordered of God?" Read Book of Mormon, II Nephi 10:11-13; I Nephi 13:12-20; 22:7-8; Ether 6:12.
What were some of the ideals in religion and other phases of life of your forebears? Tell about them to the class.
Your forebears brought to America beautiful folk songs and folklore of their home life. Have you preserved any of these?
What thought of this lesson has been very impressive to you?
Read in The American Citizen's Handbook, pp. 13-17.
General Presidents Of Relief Society
(For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States in lieu of social science lessons.)
Emma Hale Smith First Relief Society President (Tuesday, October 27, 1942)
At the age of twenty-one, Joseph Smith was employed in Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. He boarded with Isaac Hale and fell in love with his daughter, Emma, a graceful, dark-eyed girl of strong character. Her ancestors had had deep religious convictions; some had suffered for being Huguenots, one had been burned at the stake because he was a Protestant, and several had come to America for religious freedom. Emma, also, was to suffer for her convictions.
Her father, Isaac Hale, opposed her marriage to a youth who claimed to have visions and planned to establish a new faith. But the girl's heart was fixed on the young Prophet, even though he was a poor and persecuted stranger. Joseph's mother records that her son returned home and said to his parents: "I have concluded to get married; and if you have no objections to my uniting myself with Miss Emma Hale, she would be my choice in preference to any woman I have ever seen."
The parents were pleased and requested Joseph to bring Emma to live with them. Mother Smith wrote in her Life of the Prophet: "I set myself to work to put my house in order for the reception of my son's bride, and I felt pride and ambition in doing so..." She looked forward to the companionship of her daughter-in-law; and, indeed, the bride, married against the wishes of her own family, fitted happily and well into the home life of her new parents.
Emma, born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, was married January 18, 1827. The following September 22 was the time set by the Angel Moroni for Joseph to receive the golden plates. When he left on that secret nocturnal journey, the young wife left with him in his borrowed vehicle, and returned with him the following morning.
While awaiting the delivery of strong chest, Joseph concealed the plates in a birch log about three miles from his home. Then he went to Macedon where he was employed digging a well. Rumors spread that the valuable gold plates were in Joseph's possession. A threatening crowd, hoping to seize them, gathered near the Smith home. Joseph's mother was very anxious. "If I had a horse, I could ride to Macedon," volunteered Emma. In the pasture at that moment was a stray horse with a withe around its neck which, according to law, designated the horse as lost. It was brought to the house for Emma. In Macedon, the Prophet received an impression that all was not right. Hastily dropping his tools, he climbed from the well and walked toward the house, where he saw his wife, a graceful and expert rider, approaching on the sorry-looking nag with its hickory withe. He borrowed a horse from his employer and rode home beside his bride, to protect the plates at any cost.
Two months after the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830, the Prophet's wife was baptized. A few weeks later, Joseph received a revelation directed to Emma, his wife, which is the only revelation directed to a woman recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. (See Section 25) In this revelation, Emma Smith was addressed as an "elect lady" whom God had called. She was told to be a comfort to her husband in his afflictions. She was "to go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him a scribe," and "be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures and exhort the Church." Her time was to be given to "writing and learning much," and she was "to make a selection of sacred hymns" to be used in the Church. (Many hymns of her choosing are in our song books today.) The above revelation also contains a solemn warning to "Keep my commandments continually... And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come."
Most of his life, persecution dogged the Prophet's steps, and Emma had many trials, which she endured courageously, sometimes beside her husband and sometimes separated from him. There were changes, uncertainty, and frequent moves. The young couple had left Father Smith's home, and becoming reconciled with Emma's father, had bought the property next to his in Harmony, where the translation of the plates was continued with Emma sometimes acting as scribe. Later they went to Peter Whitmer's home in Fayette, New York, where the translation was concluded. From 1831 to 1838, they lived in Hiram and Kirtland, Ohio. In Kirtland, Emma supervised the boarding and clothing of the men building the temple, and was generous and hospitable to the Saints who were moving to their first gathering place.
The Prophet and his wife experienced bitter disappointment when their firstborn child died at birth in 1828, and again when their twin son and daughter died at birth, in 1831. However, instead of giving way to grief at this second calamity, they adopted the twin babies?a boy and a girl?of John Murdock, whose wife had died at the birth of these babies. The boy died in 1832, but the girl grew to womanhood and married. Emma Smith's kindness to her foster daughter and to the Saints, and her other fine womanly qualities have come down as a tradition in the Murdock family. Sister Smith later bore five more sons; one died, and four grew to maturity.
From Kirtland the Smiths moved to Far West, Missouri, where Emma endured bitter persecution. In 1839, when the Prophet was unjustly confined in Liberty Jail, his wife, with the other Saints, was ordered to leave the state. Carrying her two youngest children and with the oldest boy and the little girl clinging to her skirts, she crossed the frozen Mississippi River on foot.
In Nauvoo, Emma Smith established three successive homes. When a violent epidemic of ague swept the early settlement, the Prophet and his wife filled their house with the sick and cared for them personally. In order to accommodate more who were ill, they pitched a tent in the yard for the well members of their own household.
WHEN the Relief Society was organized in 1842, Emma Smith became its first president. Following parliamentary procedure, she conducted the meetings with dignity. She recommended the employment of a skilled widow as a seamstress, and encouraged prompt payment for this service. She suggested buying materials to be made into clothing for the poor. She thought a committee should visit the poor and learn their needs. Her practical, intelligent ideas helped to lay the groundwork for many Relief Society activities of today.
Four months after its organization, the Society prepared a petition asking Governor Carlin of Illinois to rescind an order to turn Joseph Smith over to his enemies in Missouri. Every member signed the petition, and Emma Smith, accompanied by Amanda Smith and Eliza R. Snow, went fifty miles to Quincy, to present it personally.
On August 31, President Smith attended Relief Society meeting and thanked the women. Two weeks before this, on August 16, trusted friends had conducted Emma to a little island to meet her husband who was eluding enemies. Joseph Smith wrote of the event: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band... When I took by the hand on that night my beloved Emma... The wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart... I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and the sufferings, and the joys and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board.... Again she is here?undaunted, firm, and unwavering?unchangeable, affectionate Emma." Yes, there were intervals of peace, with some prosperity, periods when Emma Smith, with her erect figure and proud, dark head, stood beside her husband, graciously dispensing kindness and hospitality, and enjoying many honors. However, after 1842, clouds continued to gather, culminating in the tragic martyrdom. When the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith were brought to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1942 the Mansion House, Emma was carried to her room, insensible. Five months later she gave birth to a son. She remained at Nauvoo and later married Major Bidamon. Before the martyrdom, Mother Smith, then a widow, had come to make her home with Joseph and Emma. Soon afterward, she became very ill. Speaking of her sickness, she wrote: "For five nights Emma never left me, but stood at my side all the night long." For several years prior to her death, Mother Smith lived with Emma. Emma Hale Smith died April 30, 1879, and was buried beside the Prophet Joseph Smith. References "Emma Hale Smith," Handbook of Relief Society, p. 109; A Centenary of Relief Society, p. 10. "Emma Smith the Prophet's Wife," Relief Society Magazine, April 1933, p. 236. "Emma Smith?Church Hymns," Relief Society Magazine, March 1939, p. 163. ASK FOR A FREE DEMONSTRATION DONALD G. LYMAN OTARION OF SALT LAKE. 511 McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me free beditiet "The Story of Otarion."' Name Address "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYSI"' OFFICE WORKERS ARE NEEDED Now! A few months of intensive training here will help you to qualify for work in Government or private offices. Ww L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Homemakers BE SURE TO USE SUGAR STAMP No. 4 BEFORE JULY 25th (it's worthless after this date) Don't let Saturday July 25th pass without getting your 2 pounds of sugar for each member of your family... For stamp No. 5 is good for a 4-weeks' sugar supply. HAVE YOU APPLIED FOR YOUR HOME-CANNING SUGAR? If you haven't as yet applied for your home-canning sugar allotment, now is an excellent time to do that, too, while our small fruits are abundant. It's your privilege and patriotic duty to can our fruits. To get your allotment, apply at your local rationing board. When you get either your regular weekly ration or your homecanning sugar, be sure it's HOME-PRODUCED SUGAR PERFECT FOR CANNING... GROWN IN YOUR OWN STATE 'Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." ?Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, 2:25. Ww LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St. 6003 Compton Avenue Dial 7523 Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2? Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 