Abraham Lincoln.
Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
steadfast, serene, worth fighting for
It's in you, the women of America, where lies the courage of humanity. It's in your serene confidence, your steadfast love, your spontaneous laughter. It's in your pride of looking lovely every hour of the day. So to a more beautiful you, guiding star for the man you love, we present fashions for a gallant spring... Styled with exquisite simplicity and subtle flattery, styled with your busy, busy life in mind. See these fashions at Z CM I, where emphasis is on high quality, durability, and all-occasion versatility. Assure yourself of these qualifications in everything you buy.
ZCMI
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
March 17, 1842
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Supplies NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, place-cards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
MARKERS FOR CENTENNIAL TREES
Cast bronze markers for Relief Society centennial memorial trees are now ready. These markers have been especially made for this purpose and bear the inscription ''Relief Society Centennial Tree?1942"' in raised letters. The markers are three inches in diameter and attached to a 12-inch pipe made to be imbedded in concrete so that they cannot be pried loose.
Price $2.25, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy. Postpaid.
IN THY FORM. Words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK
The third edition of the RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK has just come off the press. This book is exactly like the two former editions with the addition of three new songs?the two centennial songs listed above and a new hymn, "'O Father. Keep Us We Pray.'' The price of the new book including the three new songs is $1.00, postpaid.
BINDER FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This is a substantial, well-made binder, into which a total of twelve single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title "Relief Society Magazine'' stamped in gold. This binder is a great convenience to Relief Society officers, class leaders, and other subscribers desiring to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together.
Price 75c, postpaid.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter. Depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate. With costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50. Postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold-filled). With 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design. Size. And coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected' from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE BOOK
A special centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board about May 1, 1942. This book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to and including the general centennial observance. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, ''A Centenary of Relief Society.'' and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book will be fifty cents per copy. Members wishing to be sure of obtaining a copy may place advance orders for this book with their local Magazine representatives or with the office of the General Board, which will be filled in the order in which they are received. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. This valuable book will make an unusual and particularly appropriate Mother's Day gift.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Pauline T. Pingree
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew
Alice B. Castleton
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 MARCH, 1942 ~ No.3
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo?Back of Frontispiece Eliza R. Snow
Prophet Joseph Smith "I Now Declare This Society Organized'?
Joseph Smith First Presidency
Message?First Presidency
Council of Seventy Message to the Relief Society?From First Council of the Seventy Elder Levi Edgar Young
Presiding Bishopric Message to the Relief Society Presiding Bishopric
The Promise of the Gospel President David O. McKay
Relief Society General Presidents Annie Wells Cannon
The Rise of the Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley
The Joy of Progression Leah D. Widtsoe
In Retrospect?Chapter D President Amy Brown Lyman
Prize-Winning Story (Third Prize) Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
The Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll
FICTION
Men Must Work Vera Hinckley Mayhew
GENERAL FEATURES
Editorial:
Anniversary Thoughts President Amy Brown Lyman
Relief Society Passes Membership Goal Belle S. Spafford
The Cover
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon
Notes from the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Vera White Pohlman
POETRY
Morning Prayer Norma Wrathall
Mary-Martha Am I Courtney E. Cottam
Symbol William A. Forsyth 222
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

The Female Relief Society Of Nauvoo What Is It?. (Published in the 'Millennial Star,'' October 1842) It is an institution form'd to bless The poor, the widow, and the fatherless; To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. To seek out sorrow, grief, and mute despair, And light the lamp of hope eternal there; To try the strength of consolation's art, ' By breathing comfort to the mourning heart. To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where Distress presides, and wake up pleasures there; With open heart extend the friendly hand, To hail the stranger from a distant land. Tostamp a vetoing impress on each move 'That virtue's present dictates disapprove; To put the tattler's coinage scandal down, And make corruption feel its with'ring frown. To give instruction where instruction's voice Will guard the feet and make the heart rejoice; To turn the wayward from their recklessness, And lead them in the ways of happiness. It is an order fitted and design'd To meet the wants of body and of mind; To seek the wretched in their lone abode, Supply their wants, and raise their hearts to God. ?Eliza R. Snow. The Cover  Relief Society souvenir centennial plate is reproduced on the cover of this issue of the Magazine. The design of the plate is a copy of an old etching of the organization meeting of the Society, showing Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards, and the eighteen charter members. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. Pictures of the First Presidency and Council of Seventy are published through courtesy of Deseret News; the Council of the Twelve through courtesy of Salt Lake Tribune. PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Organizer of Relief Society, March 17, 1842, at Nauvoo, Illinois The Relief Society Magazine 

Vol. 29 MARCH, 1942 No. 3 "I Now Declare This Society ? Organized" ?Joseph Smith ARCH 17, 1842, in the Lodge Room over the Joseph Smith store the Prophet Joseph Smith uttered words that initiated a new day for Latter-day Saint women when he said: "I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors according to parliamentary usages." Addressing the eighteen women assembled on that memorable occasion, Elder John Taylor said that he "tejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of Heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner." He prayed that "the blessings of Heaven might rest on this institution henceforth." Throughout the past one hundred years, tens of thousands of women have rejoiced that this Society was organized. They have seen it move forward in a glorious manner, blessed of Heaven. Today it stands on the threshold of its second hundredth year with a membership of over 113,000 women grateful for the heritage of the past and eager to lend their strength to a great and glorious future. PAGE 151 Counselor J. Reuben Clark. Ir. Message From She First Presidency O the members of the WomT en's Relief Society of the Church, we send our greetings and blessings. We thank and praise our Heavenly Father for the century of great achievement which has given glory to your life. The Prophet Joseph himself established your Society for "the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of benevolent purposes," for "it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence." He promised that "knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth," knowledge that might "extend to all the world." He admonished that you were "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." For one hundred years you have walked along the paths the Prophet laid out for you. Your service of unselfish devotion, your loyalty to the priesthood, your love for the unfortunate, and your ministrations to the downtrodden, have made prophecies fulfilled of the advice, counsel, and exhortations of the Prophet; for you have nursed those who were sick, cared for those who were called home, comforted those who mourmed; you have fed those who were hungry, clothed those who were naked, warmed those who suffered from cold. You have sustained those whose souls were weary; you have enheartened those whose hearts were heavy.: The prayers of thanks and gratitude voiced by the poor whom you have succored have ascended to the Lord as sweet incense from a holy altar. The Lord has smiled down upon you and blessed you. He has accepted your labors as service to His Cause and for His eternal glory. May the Lord will that in the century which is to follow, your sisters who come after you may go along the paths you have trod. May they place on still higher planes the devoted service you were organized to carry on. May the Lord bless them even as He has so abundantly blessed you. May the graces of rare womanhood and glorious motherhood which have adorned you radiate from them undimmed. May they too fight the good fight and keep the faith, that eternal glory and exaltation shall be theirs. May they likewise, in the very highest and truest sense, live the admonition of James, showing to the world that "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world." May the Lord protect, preserve, and bless you always that His people may be strengthened and rejoiced to their salvation and exaltation. Heser J. GRANT J. Reupen Crark, Jr. Davin O. McKay PAGE 153 Berea L ges SI Richard R. Lyman. He Harold B. Lee, Sylvester Q. Cannon, Albert E. Bowen, F. Menil ohn A. Widtsoe. To The Members Of The Relief Society Greetings From She Council Of She Twelve By President Rudger Clawson HE Council of the Twelve Apostles congratulates you on the centennial anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. After one hundred years of faithful service the Society stands firmly and indispensably established as an integral part of the machinery of the Church. The Church is so organized by divine wisdom that every member is expected to find some useful duty to be performed, not only for his or her personal salvation, but also for the good and benefit of the Church and our fellow men. The Lord has placed upon the men the responsibility of Priesthood, with all its ramifications and requirements. -It is the duty of the Presthood to direct the organizations of the Church, their spiritual development, and the work of proselyting among the nations of the earth, that the righteous may be gathered out. To the women, responsibilities are given, suited to their more refined, sympathetic and charitable natures, which find expression more nearly in and through the activities of the Relief Society in caring for the poor, the needy, the sick and those who are in distress and called upon to mourn. This sympathetic and helpful labor our sisters are better qualified to impart. While this wonderful charitable organization, in the lead of the auxiliary work of the Church, did not come into existence until March 17, 1842, yet its need and importance were foreshadowed almost from the organization of the Church. In the summer of 1830, the Lord directed a revelation to Emma _ Smith, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, appointing her to certain duties, but these duties were not fully made manifest or exercised until the Relief Society was organized in 1842. At that organization the Prophet said that the expression "elect lady" had received its fulfillment and it meant responsibility to perform a certain work, and that work was given to this Society. Clothed with the mantle of mercy the Society has taught its members to be charitable, kind, and considerate of others. Not as the world dispenses charity have they labored, but in the unselfish love which builds up and strengthens not only the physical but the spiritual in their fellows. The mission of the Relief Society has always been the labor for the relief of suffering in this unselfish, uplifting influence which the world cannot comprehend. As the Church continues to grow, the Relief Society has an ever-widening field as an auxiliary of the Church. May the Lord continue to bless it and prosper it abundantly in the glorious field which is so essential to the welfare and progress of the Church. PAGE 155 FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVEN Left to right: John H. Taylor. Samue 'Hardy. Richard L. Evans, Levi Edg Inset: Oscar A. Kirkham. _ Message T'o The Relief Society From She First Council Of Seventy By Elder Levi Edgar Young HEN we think of what the \? Relief Society of the | Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands for, we recall two lovely sayings; one from the Prophet Micah, and the other from Pope's Universal Prayer. Micah, in speaking to the people of Jerusalem and Samaria, rebukes the princes and prophets of the House of Israel who have loved war instead of peace. The ancient sage then speaks of peace in the last days and defines what the Lord requires of the people who follow Him. In words sparkling with deep feeling, he says: He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and'to walk humbly with thy God. The other thought is from Alexander Pope's Universal Prayer: Teach me to feel another's woe, To hide the fault I see. That mercy I to others show, That mercy show to me. A life given up, to such thoughts as expressed by Micah and the poet Pope is a triumphant life, for it fulfills some absolute purpose in things that lie in the troubled fevers of the world. The members of the Relief Society of the Church go among the people who suffer in their feelings; who need the blessings of human helpfulness; who crave for some loying word in time of death; who hunger for some blessing in days of sorrow. 'They are messengers of happiness to the oppressed and the needy. They love mercy. They show mercy. It is their action of love and charity that brings the most subtle and tingling sense of happiness that can be felt by any human being. It is a conduct of life built up by faith and a feeling of joy which comes from service to mankind. No day is too cold, nor night too dark for them to go into homes far away to help in times of sickness and death. Always ready to bless the afflicted by carrying help, always bringing sunshine into homes where little children are crying, the Relief Sgciety sisters, blessed as they are, give a silent happiness to the stricken -heart and bid all who mourn to look to God. The First Council of the Seventy takes pleasure in this tribute to the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and hopes that in the one hundred years to come they may continue their dreams of service and fulfill the high purpose of their creation. PAGE 157 ?~ PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Left to right: Joseph L. Worthlin, LeGrand Richards, Marvin O. Ashton. Message To The Relief Society From She Presiding Bishopric "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God." 66 O do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God" (Micah 6:8) is the epitome of pure and undefiled religion, for in it are manifest the true principles of life and eternity. To do justly is the equivalent of living a righteous life; and true righteousness exemplifies part of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." To love mercy motivates one to deeds of kindness and helpfulness to his fellows; and to walk humbly with thy God portrays faith, obedience, prayerfulness, and love of God. The motherhood of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ is represented in a divinely inspired organization known as the Relief Society, the very title of which indicates its mission of service, helpfulness, and love for those in distress. The motto of this great women's organization could well be: "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God." In the Meridian of Time, the Priesthood of Aaron was restored; the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood followed, and all of the keys for the salvation, happiness, and exaltation of mankind were again placed on the earth. The Priesthood, a perfect order and system of government, affords an opportunity of service for every man. In the Church, be he young or old. But the Lord did not intend that the privilege of service would be (Micah) committed to the male membership of the Church alone, but that women should render a service peculiar to their instinct of motherly love; consequently, the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to call the women of the Church together and organize the Relief Society. The composite powers of the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ and the softening touch of the love of Latter-day Saint mothers has done much to alleviate pain, sorrow, and woe. There is not another united effort similar to it in the world; and over the 100 years since the Relief Society has assisted the Priesthood of the Lord, its great work of love, kindness, devotion, and helpfulness to those in the vale of poverty, sorrow, and sickness stands out as a shining example to the world. In this day of economic stress, this great organization of mothers renders an invaluable service under the direction of the bishops of the Church, the Relief Society being the most important aid available to the bishops in administering to the needs of those in distress; and every wise and prudent bishop, fully realizing that Relief Society mothers are home managers in their own right, calls upon them to visit homes where the powers of death, sickness, and want have manifested themselves, knowing that an accurate, complete report will be rendered, which makes it possible to give assistance intelligently and according to actual need. (Continued on page 220) PAGE 159 CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE Standing. Left to right: Sterling H. Nelson. J. Frank Ward, Marion G. Romney, Seated, left to right: Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman: Harold B. Lee, Managing Director:. Clifford E. Young, Alma Sonne, Thomas E. McKay, William E. Ryberg, Frances Cardall. Secretary; Mark Austin, Henry D. Moyle, Chairman. Gomittee members not included in picture: C, Orval Stott, Field Representative: dley, Storehouse pee Campbell M. Brown, Stringam A, in picture: John A. Widtsoe, A. E. Bowen, ishopric, Amy Brown Lyman. To The Relief Society Organization From She General Church Welfare Committee By Henry D. Moyle, Chairman the Church-wide Welfare Plan made by the First Presidency at the April, 1936, General Conference, three definite responsibilities were placed upon the Relief Society in these words: ik the official announcement of 1. Upon ward teachers, personal welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility of discovering and appraising the wants of the needy. 2. The Relief Society should cooperate in the work (of accumulating sufficient food and clothes for the needy) by directing and assisting needy sisters in drying and preserving fruits and vegetables, providing clothing, bedding, etc. 3. It will be the business and the responsibility of bishops and their ward organizations and Priesthood quorums and Relief Societies to see that full relief collections are made. (Official statement of First Presidency, April 1936) If the complete story of the activities of the Relief Society during the past six years in the development of the Church Welfare Plan under that assignment from the First Presidency were to be told, it would be epoch-making. It would tell of their courageous efforts to stimulate welfare activities throughout the Church, to supply vision and foresight to leaders who faltered, and to prod the slothful to righteous effort. It would relate of kindly visits to the homes of the needy, of the encouragement given to the weary and discouraged, of counsel and instruction given the improvident, and of lonely vigils with the sick and the distressed. It would speak of the hours of ceaseless toil to supplement the work of the unemployed that there might be "meat" in the Lord's storehouses to protect the unfortunate against a day of want and privation. | The unselfish service of the ward and stake presidents of the great Relief Society organization has been as tender as that of a mother to her family and is paralleled only by the fatherly solicitude of the bishops of the Church. Their example has inspired the entire membership with a selfless devotion to this cause of love and mercy that seeks to "wipe out all feeling of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief." Never have they lost sight of the thought that the "spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive especial care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered." In no small part due to the excellence of their teamwork with the Priesthood quorum leaders and ward bishops, a new day has dawned in the Church preparatory for the day when the world will come to our doors: and say, "Show us your way that we might walk in your path." In the early formative years of this Plan, the General Committee was associated almost daily with Sister Louise Y. Robison and _ her counselors, Sister Amy Brown Lyman and Sister Kate M. Barker, and General Secretary-Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund. Their untiring efforts and (Continued on page 221) PAGE 161 The Promise Of The Gospel In Helping Us To Meet Present-Day Crises. President David O. McKay N one of the most solemn occaQO sions of his entire munistry, Jesus said to his chosen Twelve: "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." These significant words contain both a promise and a statement of fact. The promise: If men will hearken to His "words" they shall find peace. The fact: In the world there is tribulation. There is also an implication that each is dependent upon the attitude and actions of men themselves. No one will deny that the world today is full of tribulation. A look at the map of the continents discloses the fact that Destruction ndes the waves of every ocean, and not a land but is or may be threatened with deadly bombardment. In the pathway of barbarous war, stealthily stalks the spectre of starvation, and lurking menacingly close, ready to add to the scourge of misery and death, are the ghastly destroyers, Disease and Pestilence. Sad though ? it is, in this world-wide holocaust the innocent must suffer even more poignantly than those whose. Guilt merits the disaster and death they have fostered. Tribulation means distress or suffering caused by oppression, persecution, affliction, etc., and these are PAGE 162 the result of injustice and cruelty on the part of those who at present would not only subjugate but exterminate all who refuse to subscribe to their dictation or to a particular way of life. The real source of all this lies in the hearts of men where are born and fostered the vices that breed suspicion, hatred, avarice, greed, enmity, dishonesty, treachery, _blasphemy, a denial of the existence of God and of an orderly universe. The result is that tribulation is rampant! The spirit of the antiChrist is abroad! The achievements of science in power, speed, and mechanism misapplied by gangsters and renegades are being utilized not for the progress and happiness, but for the oppression and subjugation of the peoples of the globe. Dictatorship is on a rampage while Liberty and Freedom seek for protection and effective means of defense! Whenever honor, virtue, and integrity are disregarded, seeds of sorrow and suffering are sown. In World War I, Belgium was invaded because of the violation of a sacred treaty considered by the perpetrators merely as "a scrap of paper." As a consequence, among other tragedies, beneath the ruins of Fort Loncin lie buried three hundred and fifty loyal soldiers who preferred death to dishonor. In the present war, a THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL broken promise preceded the invasion and subjugation of Czechoslovakia. As a result of treachery and jealousy over three thousand officers and men were massacred at Pearl Harbor?and so we might multiply illustrations, showing how tribulation and anguish of soul come from dishonor, deceit, ambition, suspicion, hatred, etc. Isn't it about time that man, the boasted crown of creation, began to use just a little of the God-given reason he possesses, and to seek earnestly and conscientiously for the "things" that will bring peace? The Gospel not only promises peace and contentment, but names the conditions upon which peace and contentment are predicated. These conditions apply to the nation as well as to the individual. A Promise Regarding the Land of America The Lord has promised that "This land (America) shall be a land of liberty," provided iniquity shall not abound.: "If they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever." It is interesting to note that on December 23, 1941, a member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States (Mr. Smith of Washington), made the following significant comment on the necessity of the nations to live more nearly in accordance with righteous principles: "The peoples and Nations of the earth, including ourselves and our own beloved country, have disre- 163 garded and violated the basic laws of the Universe, which are spiritual and moral. In his second inaugural address, one of the most sublime utterances of modern times, which we in this solemn hour would do wisely to read, Abraham Lincoln enunciated the eternal verity that Nations as well as individuals are subject to the just judgments of Almighty God for their conduct and deeds. "This terrible war of Armageddon which engulfs the world has come upon the children of men as the inevitable effect and natural result of sin, selfishness, prejudice, greed, ignorance, idolatry, and the worship of mammon. Men collectively have failed to heed the rules of life and the laws of Nations as revealed by God the Father in the Christian Bible. "Mr. Speaker, for many years it has been evident to thinking men and women that we are sowing the wind and would ultimately reap the whirlwind. Social injustice, industrial cruelty, racial prejudice, national selfishness, national arrogance, national pride, have brought upon all mankind the punishment and penalty which must inevitably follow as the final effect of wrongdoing and unrighteousness. The governments of the earth have failed miserably to properly appraise and evaluate the dignity and worth of human personality and the human soul. No Nation, not even our own, has practiced the virtues of true democracy ?Christian democracy. Democracy is not merely a political system?not only majority rule by popular elections and governments by parliaments and congresses. Democracy is far more than that. Democracy is individual liberty?equality of op- 164 portunity and justice for the individual. The Christian Bible truly reveals the certain method and perfect plan whereby such democracy ?the Kingdom of God?shall be attained and become a reality upon earth for all mankind. "My colleagues, the Nations and peoples of earth must go back to God the Father, no matter how hard, how long, or how bloody the road. The conflict in which we are now and will be engaged during the coming years. Shall determine the destiny and type of government for mankind for the next thousand years. By our courageous faith, by our patient sacrifice, and by our loyal obedience to God we shall build a permanent new-world social order, founded upon the enduring and eternal principles of Christian truth and justice. This will be the grand climax of mankind's age-long endeavor and imminent struggle to conquer the chaos of evil forces and achieve and establish the divine order of the ages?peace, plenty, and prosperity for all Nations and all mankind." Notwithstanding her many shortcomings, her weaknesses and sins, and the blunders of those who guide her destiny, in the main the United States has been as unselfish in her international dealings and as willing to help the downtrodden and oppressed, as any nation in all history. While God will inevitably punish her transgressions, He will as inevitably reward her virtues; so, in these days of tribulation, comfort and hope can. Be found in the promise of the Gospel that this nation is secure so long as it abides by the principles of righteousness and peace; and that "there shall be none to take away the land of their inheritance." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 Promise and Conditions for the Individual Conditions that will bring peace and comfort to the individual are as easily found and named as are the evils and vices that bring tribulation, and if cherished in proportion to their worth are as easily practiced. A few of the fundamentals of these Jesus referred to when he said: "These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace." Summarized they are (1) acceptance of Christ as the Way, the Truth, and the Life; (2) a love of God manifested in deeds; and (3) a love for one another. In other words, as the Savior said on another occasion: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,.. And thy neighbour as thyself." But skeptics and pessimists say that these principles are too general, too idealistic, that mankind is too near the beasts of creation, struggling to eke out an existence, even to attempt to apply them in daily life. In reply we say, men and women have practiced them and have been happy, and have made the world better in so doing. A group did it in Jesus' day, and they have influenced millions of lives since. 'There have been millions since their day, some heralded on the pages of history and others of whom the world has never heard who, through love of God, truth, and of fellow men, have "never yielded to the pressure of circumstances," and who, though they faced persecution and even death, could say in their hearts as the Prophet Joseph Smith declared as he turned into the path that led to his martyrdom: "If my life is of no value THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL to my friends, it is of no value to me." Such moral heroes ever strive and, to a great extent, succeed in adding to their "faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindiess; and to brotherly kindness, charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." It is gratifying to know that there are hundreds of thousands of men and women today who are turning their hearts yearningly toward the Way, the Truth, and the Life. The world needs millions more whose influence will counteract the evil spread by the multi-millions who love the world, the flesh, and the anti-Christ. The Spiritual Life the True Life of Man After all, the spiritual life is the true life of man. It is what distinguishes him from the beasts of the forests. It lifts him above the physical, yet he is still susceptible to all the natural contributions that life can give him that are needful for his happiness or contributive to his advancement. Though "in the world, he is not of the world." Jesus taught that men and women fail to live truly, and really amount to nothing unless they have spirituality. The spiritual force underlies everything, and without it nothing worth while can be accomplished. "Spiritual needs can be met only by spiritual means. All government, laws, methods, and organizations are of no value unless men and women 165 are filled with truth, righteousness, and mercy. Material things have no power to raise the sunken spirit. Gravitation, electricity, and steam are great forces, but they are all powerless to change the motives of men and women. The wealth of a Rockefeller cannot heal a_ broken heart, and the wisdom of all our universities cannot turn into the paths of nghteousness a wayward soul. Men can be born again only through religion." The Gospel, Glad Tidings of Great Joy, is the true guide to mankind; and that man or woman is happiest and most content who lives nearest to its teachings, which are the antithesis of hatred, persecution, tyranny, domination, injustice ? things which foster tribulation, destruction, and death throughout the world. "The fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Hope Even in Death Finally, a belief in the Gospel robs death of its terror, and gives assurance of eternal life for each individual. It is true that from the moment of birth we turn toward death; and Come he slow or come he fast, It is but death that comes at last. Yet, the promise of the Gospel is that "He that believeth in Christ, though he were dead, yet shall he live." What the sun in the heavenly blue is to the earth struggling to get free from winter's grip, so is the Gospel to sorrowing souls yearning for something higher and_ better than mankind has yet found in this war-ridden world, Relief Society General Presidents Personal Reminiscences 'Annie Wells Cannon S the centennial of Relief SoA ciety approaches, I am looking backward recalling faces and figures of the iia women leadEMMA HALE SMITH General President of Relief Society 1842-44 ers of the organization. Hundreds of them I have known, but outstanding among them are the "elect" women designated president. Truly grateful am I that I have intimately known them all, with one exception?Emma Hale Smith. Acquaintance with these women has been a rare experience that has enriched my life immeasurably. When I was a young girl, a choice group of "the leading sisters" occasionally met in a social way in the homes ofeach other. They would relate incidents and experiences of the early days in the Church, bear their testimonies and sing praises to PAGE 166 the Lord. Why I was permitted to be present on these occasions I know not, save that in later years I might testify of the things I learned. There were present women from Nauvoo, some of them charter members of the Relief Society. They often spoke of "Sister Emma," and from them I have in mind a picture of her like an etching. MMA HALE SMITH was a tall, raceful, dark-eyed woman with an oval face and an abundance of dark hair. She was high-spirited and animated. The early years of her married life brought many disappointments and sorrows which she met with courage. When at long last she had seeming security in her Nauvoo home, she was gracious in hospitality, generous, and sympathetic. | Under her leadership the Relief Society was well launched and started on its way to advancement. Again came persecution, her tragic widowhood, and the exodus from Illinois in which she elected not to join. To others fell the task to carry on. BLIZA ROXEY SNOW was held > by the women of the Church as an ne She was a distinct Hebraic type, refined, intellectual, and sublimely spiritual. Her presence demanded attention and respect, a silent, undemonstrative admiration. She had dark, piercing eyes, dark hair which she wore smoothly parted under a cap of black lace and velvet rib- RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS bon. Her attire was always neat and of somber colors, and she was most precise in speech and manner. The picture seems austere, but she was ELIZA R. SNOW General President of Relief Society 1866-87 teally very human, and her greatest desire was the welfare and advancement of the women of the Church, to whom her word was law. Only twice do I remember when her counsel went unheeded. Once was in the days of retrenchment and reform when she designed a uniform called "The Deseret Costume," advising its adoption. The older sisters were not enthusiastic, and the younger ones rebelled. After all, she was just about one hundred years ahead of the times, for the slacks and blouses worn today are very similar in style. Another occasion was on one of her birthdays when her friends gave her a long, black silk cape with a crimson velvet lining. She insisted that it be changed for one with a less brilliant lining, but they put it around her and seated her like a queen; she 167 laughingly yielded to their persuasions. She had a rather ascetic life, officiating daily in the House of the Lord, writing prose and poetry, ZINA D. H. YOUNG General President of Relief Society 1888-1901 studying and reading, and communing in prayer?a worthy example to Latter-day Saint women. ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG, known throughout the Church as "Dear Aunt Zina," was greatly loved for her broad charity?charity in accordance with the admonition of Paul. To her, Relief Society owes its watchword, "Charity Never Faileth." It is sweet to recall her kindly ways, her motherly solicitude, her beautiful madonna-like face, her soft voice and serene dignity. She was a good neighbor and an unfailing friend. She had an understanding heart, and those who heeded her wise counsel did not make mistakes. I recall many circumstances which were tragic enough to cause anger or 168 despair in those concerned, when Aunt Zina would grasp the situation in her calm, placid manner and create a peaceful atmosphere; her influence was like oil on the troubled waters. Her gifts were many.' She was an eloquent speaker; she could stir one to tears or wonder when she related stories of her experiences. She had the gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof. On the occasions referred to when the sisters met in their home socials, I have heard Elizabeth Ann Whitney sing in this gift and Aunt Zina give the interpretation; both were aged women whose voices generally were not good, but on these occasions their voices were like the voices of young women, and the words of blessing were in beautiful verse. ATHSHEBA W. SMITH was a queenly woman, large of stature and of commanding presence. She was the last survivor of that choice group of eighteen charter members of Relief Society, and she often testified of the Prophet Joseph's teaching on the blessed occasion of the organization of the Society. One of Aunt Bathsheba's characteristics was a sympathetic understanding of young people. She had had a romantic gitlhood and even in her eighties still enjoyed reading an oldfashioned love story. I recall with a'smile an occasion when she visited one of our Retrenchment meetings. Some of the sisters were advising the girls "not to follow the wicked fashions of the world, and to discard their frills and furbelows." Some of the girls spoke and promised to cut the ruffles from their skirts. Then Aunt Bathsheba stood up in all her dignity and said, "I was married at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 eighteen, and my husband, Brother George A. Smith, said to me, 'Don't think you are an old lady because you are married, and that you have BATHSHEBA W. SMITH General President of Relief Society 1901-10 to give up your girlish ways. Carry your starch bag in your reticule to keep the shine off your face, and be as beautiful as you can." (These were the days before make-up.) I believe there were not many discarded ruffles, and the girls all loved her. MMELINE B. WOODWARD WELLS was delicately exquisite in face and figure, keen of mind, refined, intelligent, loyal, and tender; yet with it all she was the most courageous and valiant woman I have ever known. For nearly forty years she was secretary of the Relief Society, during which time her life was like a golden thread weaving together the activities, struggles and achievements of the Society into a beautiful tapestry. The Exponent, the wheat, the silk, the Deseret Hos- - RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS pital, the Woman's Store, these and the lives of the Latter-day Saint women, all were her concern. She loved the society of children and EMMELINE B. WELLS General President of Relief Society 1910-21 'young people, and her beautiful testimony of her first meeting with the Prophet Joseph Smith and the scene in the Grove when the mantle of the Prophet fell upon Brigham Young has been borne to thousands from the pulpit and by the fireside. She had passed her eightieth birthday when she was called by President Joseph F'. Smith to the general presidency of the Relief Society, which office she held for eleven years. She was the last of that Nauvoo group, a silver link in the chain binding the old and the new. LARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS was the first of Utah's native daughters chosen for this office of General President of Relief Society,. An office which she graced with unusual poise and efficiency. As a young girl she was a bright, 169 industrious student and a_ leader among her playmates. At an early age she evidenced the qualities necessary for her later activities. She, CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS General President of Relief Society 1921-28 like a number of other young girls, was called into the Relief Society by President Brigham Young to learn to braid straw that we might be able to make our own hats. Clarissa was one who accomplished that end, most of us never did, but we all admired her dexterity immensely. When visitors came to our school in the Social Hall, we knew she would be the one called to show off the progress of our work. She could melt us to tears with her rendition of "The Bridge of Sighs" or "The Snow, The Snow, The Beautiful Snow." All these things were a preparation for success in her later years. She was a pleasing speaker, having a clear voice, and she was wise in her counsel and advice to the sisters. Her home life was charming. It was always delightful to visit there, for she was a gracious and 170 hospitable hostess. In Relief Society work she had a wonderful background, having held every position LOUISE Y. ROBISON General President of Relief Society 1928-39 from ward teacher to General President. OUISE YATES ROBISON presided for eleven years with queenly grace and dignity. She too came up from the ranks, having worked in the Church auxiliaries from childhdod. In her young married life she was active in ward and stake Relief Society work, so she came to her position as General President well qualified to carry on. It is a notable fact that in all the hundred years of the organization there has ever been marked advancement, never any retrogression. Sister Robison is tall and graceful with a beautiful, animated countenance. Courteous in manner, she wins admiration whereever she appears. She is extremely neat in appearance and in her work? her loveliness will be remembered when in her Red Cross costume she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 superintended the work in the gauze rooms; and she is lovely when in her white apparel she officiates among AMY BROWN LYMAN General President of Relief Society 1940? the sisters in the temple. She is held in loving admiration by all her coworkers throughout the Church. MY BROWN LYMAN is a beautiful woman with a charming personality. She possesses many gifts, not the least of which is that of making friends. She has a brilliant mind and is an expert in those things which she engages to attain. Had she chosen her own career as a young girl, one would have thought she would have chosen it along dramatic or artistic lines, but fate directed otherwise and led her into the field of social work, where she fitted perfectly into the Relief Society pattern. In an entertaining way she keeps large audiences or smaller groups in rapt attention while she relates experiences, de-. Scribes adventures, or gives instruc- (Continued on page 221) The Rise Of The Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley Member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board T the commencement of any great movement there are found inspired souls who dream dreams of mighty accomplishments. Their faith and courage never falter; step by step they go for-. Ward. We can well believe that in the early days of the Church, men, and women too, had visions of the Zion that was to be. Those who had heard the Prophet Joseph predict that the Saints should become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains must have caught his spirit and in hope looked forward to that day. The Prophet knew that women, as well as men, would play an important part in building the structure on the foundation he had laid, and therefore we are not surprised that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he organized the Relief Society on that memorable March 17, 1842. We can imagine that with prophetic eye he looked through the years, beholding the hosts of noble women performing their mission of mercy, bringing comfort and peace | to thousands, teaching and guiding the mothers of Israel, becoming a bulwark to the Church. He and others were dreaming, too, of the needs and opportunities of youth, for there was organized in Nauvoo, during the winter of 1843, a group which might well be called the forerunner of the Mutual Improvement organizations. We read: One evening, in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Heber C. Kimball, the follies of youth and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the frivolous manner in which they spent their time, and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc. Then Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them special instruction and advice which the spirit of the Lord might suggest to him, which if followed would doubtless lead to a reformation in the conduct of his young friends. The proposition was received with delight and acted upon with alacrity.... A number of young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings where Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light mindedness, pride, and frivolity, and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced. The address was so well received that it was voted, almost by acclamation, to hold a similar meeting the following week. Decided to meet in Brother Farr's schoolroom as Elder Billings' house was too small. Then follows an account of several meetings held in succession, at each of which Elder Kimball spoke to the young people in "that simple, plain, and affectionate manner which goes directly to the heart." At the fifth meeting, President Smith was present and appears to have been deeply moved by the number in attendance, and also by their attitude, Since he had organized the PAGE 171] 172 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE. CENTRAL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 eo (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I. A. Female Relief Society in the spring of 1842, no doubt the subject of charity and benevolence was still upon his mind, for he advised these young people to assist the needy and unfortunate. He gave them as an immediate project the case of a brother who was lame and without a home. At first the young men met alone to formulate a plan to carry out this and other relief work, but it was soon decided to ask the young ladies to join them. They therefore organized under the name of "Young Gentlemen and Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo." "This society met on the last Tuesday in each month at 6:00 91 p. M. Thus the older women and the young girls were brought into active participation in the work of the Church. We have no historical account of any organization of children, but "Aunt" Emmeline B. *Times and Seasons, Vol. IV, p. 154. Wells always insisted that there were a few children's meetings held in Nauvoo, conducted by some of the sisters. HE dream of auxiliary work, and particularly the part women were to play in it, persisted after the entrance into the valleys of the mountains, but the tasks of those beginning years in Utah were so strenuous that a period of time elapsed before efforts were made toward a realization of this dream. As early as 1853, however, a group of pioneer women, no doubt with the memory of their beloved Nauvoo Society still fresh in their minds, met in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, to organize themselves into a unit for women's work. Other organizations soon followed in the various wards of the city, evidently with the full encouragement of the authorities of the Church, for in 1866 we find Eliza R. Snow, that woman of THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES inspired mind and soul, appointed by President Brigham Young to assist the bishops in organizing ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church, a work which she continued until the end of her life in 1887. Then in 1869 came the retrenchment movement, in which both the older and the younger women were to be so vitally concerned. President Young had noted in his travels among the people that they were vying with each other in the matter of entertainment as well as in dress. Often the women were kept from their meetings in order to make preparations for meals. This troubled him and, meeting M. Isabella Horne, another pioneer woman of outstanding character, while she was visiting in Gunnison, he said to her: Sister Horne, I am going to give you a mission to begin when you return to your home?the mission of teaching retrenchment among the wives and daughters of Israel. It is not right that they should spend so much time in the preparation of their food and adornment of their bodies, and neglect their spiritual education.' Mrs. Horne entered upon this new duty with humility, but with energy. After counseling further with President Young, Sister Snow, and others, the ward Relief Societies were called together in her home, and the matter was presented to them. The sisters manifested much interest and informally organized themselves, thus beginning the Senior Retrenchment Association. This was the commencement of the *History of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, p. 31. 173 uniting of a group of wards, and presaged the stake unit. But President Young had further plans. Like the Prophet Joseph, he was deeply concerned over the welfare of the young people and could also see that they were essential to the growth of the Church. On November 28, 1869, in the old-fashioned parlor of the Lion House, he called together his family to effect an organization among his daughters which was destined to spread until it should touch the lives of all the young women of the Church:.... The husband and father sat, as was his wont, in the middle of the long room by the round table. Beside him was his loved friend and counselor, President George A. Smith, and on the red velvet davenport, the seat reserved for visitors, sat Sister Smith. At his right hand was "Aunt" Eliza R. Snow, with her tall, slim figure neatly and plainly clad, her fine old Hebrew face with its deep-set eyes and clear-cut, regular features composed with their usual customary serenity. Around the room were ranged the rest of the family as usual. President Young proceeded to give his reasons for calling them together:. I have long had it in my mind to organize the young ladies of Zion into an association, so that they might assist the older members of the Church, their fathers and mothers, in propagating, teaching, and practicing the principles I have been so long teaching. There is need for the young daughters of Israel to get a living testimony of the truth. Young men obtain this while on missions, but this way is not. Opened to the girls. More testimonies are obtained on the feet than on the knees. I wish our girls to obtain a knowledge of the Gospel for themselves..... We are about to organize a Retrenchment Association, which I want you all to join, and I want you to vote to retrench in your dress, in your tables, in 174 your speech, wherein you have been guilty of silly, extravagant speeches and lightmindedn?ss of thought. Retrench in everything that is bad and worthless, and improve in everything that is good and beautiful. Not to make yourselves unhappy, but to live so that you may be truly happy in this life and the life to come.* The officers chosen were: Ella Y. Empey, president; Emily Y. Clawson, Zina Y. Williams, Maria Y. Dougall, Caroline Young, Dora Young, Phebe Young, counselors? all daughters of President Young. Now Sister Snow had a dual responsibility, not only to place the older sisters on a sure foundation, but also to assist the younger women. In a very few months both the Senior -and Junior Retrenchment Associations were going forward rapidly and successfully. In Salt Lake City there were branches in most of the wards, and others were being effected in Ogden, Cache Valley, Box Elder County, Provo, and other places, generally under the direction of this great woman. On May 28, 1870, there occurred in the Fourteenth Ward the ninth meeting of the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Association, the minutes of which are the first on record. These minutes indicate the close bond of fellowship and love between these "mothers and daughters" which was to continue into the future and always: Sister* Zina D. Young said that we had met to serve God, that she was happy to see so many of the sisters together. She stated that the Female Retrenchment Society had never been organized in public; that they had met at Sister Horne's and organized there, but it was necessary to do 'Ibid, pages 7, 9, 10. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 so in public. She then presented Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne as presidentess of the Ladies' Co-operative Retrenchment Association. Unanimously accepted.. Sister Eliza R. Snow then said she wished to make a few remarks with regard to the Young Ladies' department. It was President Young's suggestion, because he thought they would have more influence, as the reform was to consist not only in table retrenchment, but in the trimmings, and trailing dresses, also short ones. [She hoped] that the sisters, when they begin to retrench in long dresses, might not shorten them so that modesty blushes.... If the angels were to come in our midst, how would they be able to distinguish us from the Gentiles?' What a busy decade that must have been from 1870 to 1880! As new wards and stakes came into existence, so also the women's groups multiplied. In 1872, the first woman's magazine of "Mormondom" came into existence?The Woman's Exponent, under the patronage of Brigham Young, Eliza R. Snow, and others. This paper although not owned and controlled by the Relief Society, was the accredited organ of the Society. Lula Greene Richards was its first editor, serving for a period of five years, during the last two years of which she was assisted by Emmeline B. Wells, who succeeded her as editor. These two young women became well known and loved among the Saints, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow, both of these editors possessed the sweet gift of poetry. With his interest in youth ever fresh and intense, President Young saw fit to organize in 1875 the young men of Zion, giving Junius F. Wells the important task of supervision. He named this organization "Young 'Ibid, p. 33, 34- THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Men's Mutual Improvement Association." This influenced the young women, and they at once desired a similar name, so that by 1877 we have the "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association." And with this change, the word "Retrenchment" seems to fade from the picture in both the younger and older groups, Relief Society coming again into its own. ANP now a new opportunity for women was dawning in the field where, after all, they are at their best ?that of working with little children. There had been some faint beginnings along the line of organized work with children before this. ?perhaps at Nauvoo, and also among the pioneers. "Aunt Louisa's (Wells) Manner Meeting" had captured some boisterous youngsters and taught them lessons in courtesy and gentleness and the cardinal virtues of honesty and_ truthfulness. Here and there, weekday groups are believed to have sprung up tempotarily. But in 1878, another great woman came into the foreground with her inspired thought of organizing an association for little folks. It was in March, 1878, that Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers, of Farmington, Utah, thought of an organization for little boys where they could be taught '"'everything good and how to behave." She noticed that many of them were allowed to be out on the streets at night and were learning things that little boys should never learn. Some of them were growing up to be "hoodlums" rather than Latter-day Saints and gentlemen.* She consulted Sister Snow, who ~ conferred with the leaders of the ?The Children's Friend, April, 1940, p. 166. 175 Church, and the result was that Bishop Hess of Farmington, where Sister Rogers resided, gave her permission to preside over an organization for children. Immediately the thought came to her that girls should be included, especially to participate in the singing, so she again sought Sister Snow's advice by letter. The answer from Sister Snow was written from Salt Lake City, August 4, 1878. It said, "My dear Sister Rogers: The spirit and contents of your letter pleased me much. I feel assured that the inspiration of heaven is directing you, and that a great and very important movement is being inaugurated for the future of Zion.... You are right?we must have the girls as well as the boys?they must be trained together.' It was Sister Snow who named this newest of organizations over which women were to preside?The Primary; and it was she who later outlined the program which should bless the multitudes of Zion's boys and girls. Thus, by the close of the 70's, the dream of women's work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was well on its way to glorious fulfilment. IGHTEEN-EIGHTY! The Jubilee year of the Church and the birth of a new epoch in the auxiliaries! Eliza R. Snow, who up to this time had guided the work of all three branches of the women's work?for the older women, the young girls, and the children?was now to relinquish part of her heavy responsibility. She was asked by President John Taylor to call together all of the women for a "Sisters' Conference" as he desired to "Ibid, p. 167. 176 separate the work, at least in part, and to place it under three central (general) boards. Two meetings were held, one in the Tabernacle and one in the Assembly Hall. In the first meeting the Primary Board and the Relief Society Board were organized in the order named. Louie B. Felt was made president over the Primary Association, and Eliza R. Snow was made president of all the Relief Societies. In the afternoon Elmina S. Taylor was selected to preside over the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association. From this eventful hour the two new presidents took their place among the honored Latter-day Saint women leaders. The full story of the work of those early General Board members would make interesting reading. In buggies and whitetops they traveled, for days and sometimes for weeks at a time, throughout the stakes and wards, establishing local organizations, strengthening those already begun, and putting into operation new plans as they were born. There were programs to formulate, "guides" to prepare containing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 texts for study, correspondence to carry on, and the many other details incident to the work of these new organizations. Other magazines were to be founded, one for each of these groups; there were departments to be organized with graded courses of study, and new assignments to be fulfilled as they were received from time to time from the presiding Priesthood. A new day in the women's auxiliaries had arrived?a new day of intensified effort, expansion, progress. NE hundred years have passed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women. Eliza R. Snow and those other choice spirits have gone to their rest, leaving behind a rich legacy. The dream is in part fulfilled, but new visions beckon onward. The first of these three groups proudly commemorates its centennial anniversary, while we of the other two organizations pay our tribute of love and honor. United in a great purpose, whether serving the mothers, the youth, or the children, the womanhood 6f the Church must ever move forward to its high destiny. ~~ MORNING PRAYER Norma Wrathall ? Today is here! The sun's cascade, new pearled, Splashes the early sky with sparkling hues. Above the sounds of waking birds, the world Rouses to life, gives me this day to use. Now I make haste to strive with eager hand? Oh, let me know the way to work with skill, Not err in sin, nor waste, but understand, So, when these hours have gone, their pattern will Reflect against the glowing evening sky The same bright colors that the morning knew; Fulfillment of the promise made, if I Keep willing hands and heart steadfast and true. The Joy Of Progression What Relief Society Means To Me Leah D. Widtsoe WO forces are ever present in the mortal world. One leads men toward their Father in Heaven; the other leads downward toward Satan who is the author of darkness. Nothing in this world is static; every living thing is either growing or retrogressing. Human beings are either becoming more intelligent, are improving their lives day by day, or they are becoming less active, less willing to learn and thus less useful. It is impossible for one to stand still intellectually or spiritually or to always be content with things as they are. If we are not climbing upward, growing, learning, improving ourselves, we are bound to be on the downward track. If we can grasp this great truth and understand its deep significance we have learned one of the greatest lessons of life. There is no compromise with truth; no halfway measures will insure progress. It is wise to plan that life shall be so lived from day to day that one is increasingly just a little nearer the source of light and truth instead of farther away. The Right of Choice The blessed privilege enjoyed by all God's children is that each has, or should have, the inalienable right of free agency, the power of choice, the right to use his will to do right or wrong, to obey or to disobey law. However, there are so many tempting lanes to follow, so many distractions along the way, that unless one Adam. Has a guide one is apt to get lost or to err in judgment, at times unintentionally. That all may be guided in this upward reaching toward the light is the purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Fortunately the Gospel as a guide to a happy, useful, and successful life is within the understanding and reach of every son and daughter of It is designed for the use and uplift of all men, women, and children, and its blessings cannot be monopolized by any race, or class, or age group. In its scope, provision is made for the development and comfort of every soul?man, woman, and child. There is work for each to do in climbing upward for his own soul advancement as well as to assist in the upward climb of others. The Relief Society for All Women For this purpose the Priesthood was restored and the different auxiliaries in the Church were organized. The Priesthood is held by all righteous men in the Church. Through the organization of the Relief Society, provision was made that all the women of the Church should have the opportunity for growth and uplift by the use of their own faculties according to their faith and works. Unquestionably the Prophet was inspired to organize the womanhood of the Church so that they too might have the opportunity to develop their innate gifts, to study and achieve a better understanding of the Gospel with its power to lift PAGE 177 178 all God's children. It is a blessed thing to know that our Father in Heaven loves his daughters quite as much as He does His sons and has provided for their welfare and progTess. The sisters who were active in this first organization, just one hundred years ago, were united in their desire to assist in caring for the refugees from the country roundabout whose homes had been destroyed by their enemies and who kept pouring into Nauvoo for protection. The Nauvoo sisters shared their homes, and used all their spare time in sewing for the men who were working on the Nauvoo Temple as well as for anyone in their midst who might be in need. When the suggestion was made that they organize themselves into a Society for helping the poor and unfortunate, they went to the Prophet for his advice on the drafting of their constitution. He replied to them: "This is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord. But He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren?and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood." The leaders of the Church met with the sisters, and the Relief Society was organized. The brethren suggested that the name "Benevolent Society" would be expressive of the aims of the Society, but the women preferred the name "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." The women had their way, and thus our Relief Society was born and christened. The Prophet met with the sisters many times, and as a result of his inspirational guidance and their unRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 tiring efforts, the aims and policies of the new Society were gradually formulated and crystallized. At. A Relief Society meeting held on June 9, 1842, the Prophet said: "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to telieve the poor, but to save souls." What a glorious mission for the womanhood of Christ's Church! This had been considered the special prerogative of men and ministers; but a modern Prophet under inspiration had the vision of the mothers of the race extending their upbuilding powers far beyond the limited circles of the individual homes. The scope of the Society has gradually developed until it may be said to rest on a stable, four-square foundation: 1. It provides for the all-round physical and mental development of the individual woman; and by lifting her, the home and family are benefitted. A definite educational program is a vital part of Relief Society activity. 2. The Society gives the opportunity for every woman to benefit others outside her home, as well -as herself and family. To care for one's own advancement only would be but a selfish aim; but through study and responsibility every woman is better prepared to care for self and others positively, that sickness, delinquency, and misfortune may be measurably prevented. It is so much better to use our powers to prevent sickness and sin than to devise means of relief or of cure. This is and should always be our greatest aim. 3. The Society helps to provide for those in distress; for in spite of the greatest care and precaution, misfortune may and does at times overtake everyone. Therefore, the Society is a great blessing to all members in time of trouble or when in need of intelligent help for causes beyond control. 4. Possibly of greatest importance is the opportunity the membership has to study and apply the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that their spiritual natures may be THE JOY OF PROGRESSION developed and the Gospel be more completely understood and lived by them day by day. Thus they are preparing themselves to be better mothers, wives, and companions of those who hold the holy Priesthood of God. In brief these aims may be thus stated: (1) self improvement; (2) uplift of others and prevention of evil; (3) relief of distress or misfortune; (4) spiritual growth and development for all. 'Thus it may be seen that the scope of the Society is much. Broader than its name indicates. Why Attend Relief Society? Every woman needs some activity outside her home. Her life is so confining, so engrossed with hard though uplifting work and petty details, that were she to have no outside interests it would be easy for her to become stale and unprogressive in her outlook on life. If her outside activities are merely social, she is apt to become shallow and to deteriorate mentally as well as spiritually. The Relief Society offers just the stimulus needed by every woman for constant self-improvement, as well as for the upbuilding of family, home, and community. So, if one were to ask me tersely, "What does the Relief Society mean to you, and how has it blessed your life?" I should have to answer thus: First, it gives me the chance to be a social human being. Through it I am able to meet congenial women who have the same ideals that I have and who are striving to grow and improve themselves as I am. Even though some of them may not be congenial at first, I learn to appreciate them and like them better as I know them better. They are of my time, and most of them have problems to meet that are similar to mine. So I enjoy knowing these 179 women, and from a social point of view alone my time is well spent in going to Relief Society.. I am aware _that we may not all have the same conditions financially, nor have we had the same chances for education, travel, and other advantages, yet we are all working for the same goal? improvement for self and others? and I cherish the opportunity of being one with these women and mingling with them weekly throughout most of the year. Second, I am able to learn something definite every time I go to my Relief Society meeting. 'The programs are so arranged that I receive some benefit every time I attend. I am also often entertained and greatly interested by the varied activities. Members are encouraged to study at home the lesson that is to be given the next week. If I am wise, I do study during the weekh? if only for a few moments at a time ?the coming lesson, for thereby I learn more and enjoy the lesson hour much more as well as being more highly profited thereby. Third, the program in recent years has given much help for improving. Family relations as well as stimulating a greater interest in social and mental health and well-being. Anything that will help me to bea better and healthier person is worth while; and even though I am a grandmother and my family is reared, yet I learn many things that I am glad to pass on to my daughters and friends. Women of all ages constitute the membership of Relief Society, and improvement is there for all. Fourth, the Relief Society has. Helped me greatly to cultivate the few gifts that have been given me 180 and to learn how to become selfreliant. I realize keenly my limitations, yet the Society has encouraged me, as it does every member, to try - when asked and to do my best. I have learned to avoid criticising ? others as I hope others will refrain from doing when my faults become too evident. In other words, the Society helps women to think, speak, and act for themselves?to be independent human beings, not just echoes of their "Lords and Masters" or mere passive members of society. By improving our minds and all our opportunities, we become much better and wiser companions for our husbands and children, or for our friends and dear ones should we be unmarried. Fifth, the Society stimulates and helps to satisfy my craving for the finer things of life. It is easy for a busy mother to become so absorbed in the daily grind that there is no time for anything but the newspapers?and often they are neglected. Good literature should be the companion of everyone who desires to grow, and the Relief Society program helps all to keep up an acquaintance with the best in literature. The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me, and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring me. Another joy that the Relief Society has brought me is the exquisite pleasure of listening to the Singing Mothers of modern Zion. It has been my lot to travel widely and visit many of the stakes of Zion. Always when I see the groups of whiteclad women, ready and able to sing the songs of Zion as well as some of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 the lovely classic music of the masters, my heart is thrilled beyond measure; for I know that singing mothers are always better mothers. If mothers sing, children will sing also. I love the name "Singing Mothers," for every mother should sing to her babies in her home, and especially should she sing in her heart for the great gift of motherhood. Every woman is a mother at heart, and whether or not she has been blessed with children, she may sing with the rest of us. The beautiful music given by these singing groups is always uplifting. I have heard as fine music and as well rendered a program from them as from any chorus I have ever heard and much better than some I have heard. Even though some of their renditions may at times fall short of standard, yet I know their very attempts to sing together make them better women. 'Those who practice good music are far less prone to gossip and backbite than they would be were they not engaged in such uplifting work. If the mothers of Zion cultivate good musical taste and practice what they learn we may be sure that we shall all be better people. May the voices of the Singing Mothers of Zion never be stilled, and may their efforts increase until the earth shall be filled with song instead of hatred and war! Sixth, and of greatest benefit to me, is the opportunity the Society affords me to study my religion, to become more and more conversant with the great truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If the Gospel was given in the beginning and restored in our day for the benefit of every individual on earth, then it is just as THE JOY OF PROGRESSION necessary for women to study and practice its precepts as it is for men. Indeed, their need may be greater, for as the mothers of men it is their duty to guide and direct their families during their most formative years. The Priesthood quorums meet weekly and study different phases of Gospel principles. Because of the Relief Society, the women may also meet weekly and have the chance to study and learn increasingly more and more of restored truth. Were it not for the Society I might not have my privilege of definite, consecutive study of Gospel principles. It is often difficult and sometimes well-nigh impossible for women to leave home Sunday morning to attend Sunday School, or Tuesday evening to attend Mutual; but by planning wisely, most women may arrange to leave for an hour or two one afternoon a week to attend the Relief Society meeting. This is my chance to become conversant with the principles of the Gospel, to develop the spiritual side of my nature, and to get nearer to my Father in Heaven while I learn more of His hand-dealings with His children. Of course, I could and do study the Bible and other Church books at home, and while I receive much benefit therefrom, it is not as stimulating as when discussion is made possible by the many points of view expressed by the members of the Society. Intelligent group study is often more beneficial than individual effort, though the latter is also essential to progress. The study of theology always lifts me to a higher conception of life and gives me added strength to carry on my daily duties. It also makes me a 181 more interesting companion for my husband and a much wiser guide and friend for my children and _ their friends. If my husband were indifferent to the Gospel or even were he not a member of the Church at all, it would be all the more important for me to be faithful in my attendance at Relief Society that my own and my family's lives might be enriched thereby. A Wealth of Benefits One of the greatest attractions of Relief Society to me is its beautiful democracy. Any good woman may become a member if she so desires? there is nothing "exclusive" or "high-brow" about our Society. All the benefits here enumerated may be possessed by any woman who will join, and all are invited to participate in some phase of the varied activities. This is as it should be in the Church of Christ and as it must be in the world before peace may reign. Equal opportunity for progress and happiness must be available to all the people of earth. The Gospel teaches how it may be done. I wish that more young women would become members of the Society ? especially young mothers. The program is particularly needed by them and is adapted to their use. So many problems arise in the home that receive new light after study and discussion in the Society program. Really, the most crucial need is here, for only as there are better, wiser mothers, may the race improve and may sin be conquered. The home is indeed the cradle of all progress. If mothers cannot leave young children at home, a room in the (Continued on page 221) In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER III STUDENT, 'TEACHER, TRAVELER N the fall of 1888 I entered the Normal Department of Brigham Young Academy. My sister Susan and I were driven to Provo by father in a farm wagon along with some furniture and supplies, and we were located in a large room near the school where we were to do light housekeeping. Each week end provisions from home were sent to us across Provo Bench. The school was then located in the old Z. C. M. I. Warehouse near the railroad depot, where it had been housed since the fire had destroyed its original home, Lewis Hall, on Center Street. It occupied the whole second floor of the warehouse, with several offices and the laboratory on the ground floor. To me the school was a surprise, a marvel, and a delight. It did not matter that the building was a plain ordinary warehouse, nor that the desks were long, crude, table affairs with chairs of the kitchen variety. It was the spirit and atmosphere of the institution which were so fascinating and satisfying. I had heard a great deal from my brothers and sisters and other former students about how fine the school was, how the spirit of the Gospel permeated every quarter, and how the students regarded religion as the most important subject in the whole curriculum. I had anticipated much, but the reality exceeded my expectations, and I found that the wonders PAGE 182 of the school had not half been told. That year seemed to me to be the happiest of my life, and the world such a fascinating place in which to live. It was during this period that I met and fell in love with my future husband, Richard R. Lyman, so why shouldn't it be the happiest time of my life? As I think of it now, the school was really as remarkable as I then thought it was, for it featured those things which are most important in this life and in the life to come. There were a number of excellent teachers, but the most important, best loved and honored was, of course, Dr. Karl G. Maeser, who stood at the head and was really the soul of the institution. Tall and thin, dressed in a Prince Albert coat, he personified the idea of the old professor, and ruled the school like a general. 'Trained for his work in Old-World education centers, he was an educator of the first rank, a fine scholar, and a finished teacher. His enthusiasm and earnestness, his unwavering faith and _ spirituality, his fine character, and his daily life were a constant inspiration to his students and stimulated them to greater effort and accomplishment than they had thought possible. He loved the calling of a teacher and often said he hoped he would be able to teach in heaven. I was a member of his Theology class, in connection with which we had a IN RETROSPECT AMY BROWN, AGE 18 monthly testimony meeting, and I was also a member of his classes in History of Education, Theory and Practice of Teaching and, occasionally, Elocution, when he substituted so ably for the teacher of that subject. Next to my own parents, Brother Maeser influenced my life. Our daily devotional exercises brought us all together each morning when there would be singing and prayer, a message from Brother Maeser or one of his associates, and special instructions, if there were any to give. A quotation from an address I gave at the B. Y. U. Alumni banquet in June, 1941, further describes school life in 1888: "School life as I knew it under Brother Maeser at the old B. Y. A. When school was held at the warehouse was. Interesting, profitable, happy, satisfying, and wholesome. 183 As I look back, I recall many fine extra-curricular features. For example, on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock there was a special meeting (or chapel service it might be called) in the school assembly hall for students. It was known as the Missionary meeting. Impromptu speaking was encouraged, and anyone who had the desire might address the assembly. Students ambitious to become public speakers, sometimes, unbeknown to their class mates, prepared these so-called impromptu speeches. Returned missionaries also enjoyed the privilege of making reports here. These meetings were always well attended. "Then there was the Domestic Department established to look after students during out-of-school hours. In each boarding place, one student was appointed to act as monitor. It was his duty to look after the rest and to report regularly in Domestic meeting, held monthly, as to how things were going, and whether school rules were being observed. Students were not expected to be out at night, even until 7 o'clock, without special written permission from Brother Maeser himself. Nine o'clock was considered a late hour. These permission notes were signed ?Msr. "For recreation we had Polysophical Society which held forth every Friday night, when excellent literary and musical programs were given by the best talent available in the school. And once in five weeks there was a student dance in the school assembly hall which began at 8 o'clock and closed promptly at 12 o'clock. We were so happy in those dances we did not notice the poor, splintered floor. We were not ex- 184 pected to frequent public dances. Nor did we. I never heard anyone complain, however, about school re- | strictions. Everybody seemed satisfied and happy." I was graduated from the Normal School in June, 1890, and was selected, with several others, to make a short speech at commencement exercises. It was customary then for a number of students to appear on the commencement program. Graduating with me in the class of 1890 were two of the choicest spirits and most faithful and devoted friends I have ever known, and two of the finest and ablest persons this state and Church has produced ? they were Prof. Alice Louise Reynolds and Dr. George W. Middleton. We studied together, and together we prepared for our final examinations. This close friendship with these two precious souls covered a period of fifty-two years and ended only with their recent deaths, which occurred less than one year apart. Miss Reynolds was like a sister to me. My home was her home. She came and went as she pleased and was always welcome. During two summers she joined us in study ?one summer at the University of Chicago and one summer at Cornell University. While my husband was presiding over the European Mission she spent the summer with us in London, where we visited many historic and literary shrines together. Dr. Middleton, so greatly beloved by every member of our family, came to our home often, on friendly as well as professional calls. He always called on Christmas morning, and since his death Christmas morning is for us no longer the same. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 A few weeks after my graduation, I was engaged by Brother Maeser to go back to the "Y" and take charge of what was then known as the "Primary Department," and under his supervision and direction, in the fall of 1890 I began my work as a teacher, at a salary of $40 per month ? one-third cash and twothirds tithing script. In 1891, the B. Y. A. Was moved from its temporary home in the Z. C. M. I. Warehouse to its new home on the new campus, in the northern part of the city, now known as the lower campus. The new building, college hall, was considered a real palace by the students. Here we had central heat, a telephone, and other conveniences. I taught in the Training School of the institution for four years and had the privilege during that time of working under President Benjamin Cluff, Jr., who was a constant inspiration to both his teachers and students, and Prof. George H. Brimhall, that dynamic and forceful teacher and builder of character, who was in direct charge of the Training School. In addition to my work in the Training School, I taught, at different periods, needle work, physical education, and during an emer- - gency I served as matron of the school. I used to feel at times that teaching in a Church school had its handicaps, especially for young women who loved fun, parties, and dancing as I did. The teachers were supposed to be very circumspect and to set a good example, which was rather hard on the younger faculty members. Party dresses with low necklines and short sleeves were not very common and were taboo for us. "THE FACULTY OF B. Y. A., 1890? Front row, left to right: Mary Lyman (Gowans), Otillie Maeser (Phelps), Amy Brown (Lyman). Center row, left to right: Ephraim E. Gowans, Prof. Benjamin Cluff, Jr., Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Prof. Joseph B. Keeler, Emil Maeser. Back row, left to right: Prof. George H. Brimhall, Prof. N. L. Nelson, Prof. E. B. Isgreen, Hyrum Anderson. One great disappointment that I remember distinctly was when I was advised not to take part in a grand masquerade ball given in the Provo Theater by the society folk of the town. It was really the ball of the season, and all of my girl friends dressed and masked for the occasion. I felt quite rebellious at being ad- 'vised. Not to-take part and argued the point with Brother Maeser. I told him I had been held down all my life, and that I was tired of being a bishop's daughter and a Church school teacher. [ think I even shed a few tears about it. But I finally gave in, and sat in the front' row of the dress circle?we called it baldheaded row?with the older people, where I watched my friends enjoy all the fun that accompanied those old masquerade balls. For several years I boarded in the Maeser home, where I was treated as a daughter of the house. It was a home of order, system, regularity, 186 -and immaculate cleanliness, as well as a home of rare culture and refinement. Sister Anna Meith Maeser, daughter of an educator, wife of an educator, born and reared in a home of luxury and refinement in the great art center, Dresden, Germany, was an expert and frugal housekeeper and homemaker, and looked constantly to the welfare and comfort of her distinguished husband and his household. Because of her understanding and appreciation of the rare abilities of her husband, and of the importance of his work and mission as a great teacher and leader, and because she realized his great need for proper care and consideration in his strenuous work, she always subordinated herself and her personal interests to him and his work. She felt that first things should come first. She was innately modest and unassuming, and willing to remain in the background. Her abilities and qualifications were therefore not generally known or fully appreciated. Brother Maeser never had one moment's concern about how the income could best be spent, about the condition of his home either inside or outside, or about his personal effects and clothing. His always immaculate and dignified appearance in his well-pressed trousers and Prince Albert coat was due in no small measure to the attention and care of his practical and devoted wife. While visiting Germany in 1938, we were thrilled when President and Sister A. C. Rees informed us that our tour through the East German Mission would include visiting branches in and about Dresden. We had hoped that we might be able to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 visit this famous city with its great art gallery, reputed to be one of the best three in the world, where there are many famous original paintings, including Raphael's "Sistine Madonna" and Hoffman's "Head of Christ." We were also interested in the city because it was the birthplace and former home of Sister Maeser who had been a second mother to me. She had often told me of her father's work there as director of the Budich Institute, a noted Lutheran college where she herself was educated, of her lovely childhood home of luxury and comfort, and of her ? marriage in a fashionable Lutheran church to her sweetheart from Meisen, who was her father's chief assistant and vice-director of the Institute. We were also overjoyed to find that a short side trip from Dresden was planned to visit the elders in Meisen, which was the birthplace of our beloved Brother Maeser. We went to the house where he was born and saw the sacred little slant-ceilinged upstairs bedroom where he first saw light. As we stood there we seemed to hear again the ringing testimony of our precious teacher, which had been his greatest source of comfort and an inspiration to his students. We signed our names in a book which had been placed there by Dr. James E. Talmage. | How appropriate for Doctor Talmage, the brilliant student and faithful follower of Brother Maeser, to seek out the birthplace of this great teacher and have a tablet placed upon it! We also went to the china factory where Brother Maeser's father, who was an artist, painted china, and where the chair in which he sat as he painted is still preserved. We found they were still using the identi- IN RETROSPECT cal rose pattern which he used so long ago. The cups and saucers and other pieces looked exactly like those the Maeser family brought to Utah and treasured so highly, and which I remember so well. I was deeply touched on this day. After these visits I marveled more than ever at the courage and bravery exhibited by Brother and Sister Maeser in giving up so much for the Gospel, in facing so bravely the hardships and poverty of their early days in Utah. Through all their trials and tribulations they never faltered in their loyalty to the Church. One of my most prized possessions today is a gift book from Brother Maeser?a beautifully-bound book? Scott's Lady of the Lake, presented to me on my nineteenth birthday. On the flyleaf are to be found these words: "Feb. 7, 1891. To Miss Amy Brown, in kind remembrance of her teacher and friend. Dr. Karl G. Maeser." Teaching children is always interesting whether in a private or public school. From the B. Y. A., I came to the schools of Salt Lake City, where under that able educator and gentleman, Dr. J. F. Millspaugh, who was then superintendent, I worked at a salary of $100 per month, which seemed a fortune to me. Professor William M. Stewart had offered me a position in the Training School at the University of Utah, but I felt that I had served my time in teacher-training work. The Salt Lake City schools were then operating under a board of education which was anti-Mormon, and which a few years previously had reorganized the school system and eliminated practically all Latter-day Saint teachers, and imported teach- 187 ers from the outside to take their places. When I began teaching here in 1894, there were only a few Latterday Saint teachers in the entire city. What a blessing that much of the prejudice against the Mormons has been overcome! I heard Anna Garlin Spencer, a brilliant American woman, say in an address that prejudice should be classed with other destructive forces such as war, poverty, and disease. It was always a mystery to me why some people who were so antagonistic to the Mormons chose to live among them. While I was still at the B. Y. U., the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, April 6, 1893. Upon the invitation of President Francis. M. Lyman, I accompanied him and his daughter, Mrs. William H. King, to the sessions on the first day. It was one of the most thrilling spiritual experiences of my life. As I sat there during those impressive services I thought, as no doubt did many others, of that other April 6, 1853, forty years before, when the cornerstones of the great edifice were laid, and of the hardships and struggles of the people during these many years in their efforts to carry on the work; also of the long years of steady and continued effort which had been put forth to produce this sacred and magnificent temple. The dedicatory prayer was offered by President Wilford Woodruff, then 86 years of age. As he stood there before the people with hair and beard as white as snow, the essence of purity, gentleness, and faithfulness, he reminded me of the prophets of old. In later years as I became intimately acquainted with President Woodruff, my appreciation and admiration of this gentle 188 and righteous man were unbounded. Since that time I have visited all of the temples erected by the Church except the Nauvoo Temple, and I have visited a number of times the spot upon which it stood. I also had the privilege of attending the dedicatory services of the Canadian Temple, August 26, 1923, and the Arizona Temple, October 23, 1927, which were dedicated by our beloved prophet and leader, President Heber J. Grant, who in his ringing voice thrilled his hearers with his glorious prayer and with the earnestness of his testimony. HE summer of 1895 was a redletter period for me, for it was then I took my first long trip from home?a trip which made such a great impression upon me that I always enjoy recalling it. Traveling about the country in those days before the invention of the automobile was much less common _ than it is today. The tour included Chicago, Ann Arbor?where I went to attend the graduation exercises of my fianc? at the University of Michigan?New York, Boston, and Washington. Returning, I visited my father's people in Illinois. I had made great preparation for the trip by replenishing and refurbishing my wardrobe. I remember especially the beautiful, cream silk formal dress trimmed with white passementerie, which I wore to the grand senior ball at Michigan University. I traveled to Ann Arbor with President Francis M. Lyman, my future father-in-law, one of the most genial and lovable personalities I have ever known, and an ideal traveling companion. While in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 college town, I was the guest of my brother, James L. Brown, later Professor of Education at the B. Y. U., and his interesting family. The commencement exercises at this great University and the social functions connected therewith were full of interest and excitement for me. Richard R. Lyman was president of his class, and we were shown many courtesies and were entertained lavishly by his friends. It was said of him at that time that he was the most popular student on the campus. He had been president of his class in his sophomore year, and was elected president again in his senior year. This is the highest college honor the students can confer upon a classmate. And as if that honor from his classmates were not enough, twenty-five years ago he was elected president of the class (1895) for life. He made friends largely because he could not help it. He likes people and believes that on the whole the human race is pretty good. I was rather startled at the attention he received from the charming Michigan coeds. This set me to thinking. I had the honor at this time of being presented to President James B. Angel of the University, who gave us an unhurried and extended interview. President Angel was one of the greatest college presidents of his day. He was very courteous and kind and was especially interested in President Francis M. Lyman?his background and his people. Of him President Angel made sympathetic inquiry about a number of former Utah students who had attended Michigan University and had made notable records there among them were George Sutherland, William IN RETROSPECT H. King, James H. Moyle, and Benjamin Cluff, Jr. There was great warmth in his greeting and charm in his manner. I saw New York with a group of Z. C. M. I. Buyers and members of their families. It would be difficult to explain how thrilling New York was to the women members of the party, this being their first visit to the great metropolis. Born and reared as I had been in a small village, this was especially the case with me. The elevated railroad and the subway were equally mysterious, and the theaters and business districts marvelous. Many courtesies were extended to the party by the various business houses with which Z. C. M. I. Was connected. It was interesting as well as gratifying to note the respect in which this great Mormon institution was held among business men in New York. My father's people in Illinois received me very kindly, especially his sister, Aunt Sarah Thomason, who took me into her home and her heart and escorted me about to visit a number of the nieces, nephews, and cousins. They were all interested in me as the daughter of a favorite relative and as the first of his children to visit them. They felt as if he had been almost lost to his family 189 when he joined the Mormons. Then there were some who were quite curious, as they had never before seen a Mormon. I visited the old cemetery near Pinckneyville where many of the Browns and been buried, and the old homestead and farm where my father had lived and worked and played, the fields and forests where. He had roamed?all of which he loved so dearly, but had left for the sake of the Gospel. The farm was bordered on one side by a dense, virgin forest which had purposely been left in its native state. Here I saw huge hardwood trees, the largest and loveliest I had ever seen, especially the maples and oaks. Beneath them there grew tall ferns, ivy which wound itself about the trunks of the trees, and gorgeous, sweet-smelling, wild herbs and flowers. After seeing his former home and surroundings in this beautiful and fertile country where corn grows taller than a man, sometimes ten feet high, I could understand why he loved trees and verdure and why he had worked and struggled so hard in his mountain desert home to produce trees. I have seen him many times carry water in a bucket across a field to refresh a beloved shade tree. (To be continued ) Relief Society Jubilee a celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842, was held in the large tabernacle in Salt Lake City, March 17 tourists were also present. 7, 1892, and was largely attended by those resident in the city. The stands were handsomely ornamented with flowering Many strangers and plants, principally calla and Easter lilies. The large organ was draped with the stars and stripes, the flags extending across, and a large oil painting of Joseph, the Prophet, was hung high in the center; below it was an immense key made of the most beautiful flowers, underneath which was the picture, life size, of Emma Smith, the first president of the Relief Society, and on her right a picture of Eliza R. Snow, the second president, and on her left that of Zina D. H. Young, the present president.''?Relief Society Minutes. Prize-Winning Story Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest VERA HINCKLEY MAYHEW Men Must Work Vera Hinckley Mayhew Third Prize MARY stood between Sister Faulk and Jane Bower as they sang "Let's Be Kind to One Another." The melody soared and filled the small basement room _where Relief Society was held. Such a plain little room, old furniture, faded draperies, chairs that didn't always stay up; but it was beautiful to Mary. So was the small, lumpy woman beside her, because if it PAGE 190 hadn't been for Sister Faulk, Mary's life would have been ruined. Her throat tightened until she couldn't sing as her mind flew back to that day three months before that had been the turning point in her life: OM was already up when Mary awoke that morning. She could hear the scratch of his razor. She pushed her feet into a pair of shapeless PRIZE-WINNING STORY mules and thrust her arms into a shabby house coat that was none too clean. Out in the kitchen she spread a cloth on the table, not caring that it didn't hang straight and that there were spots on it from the day before. She put bowls and spoons at four places and a package of ready-cooked cereal, a bowl of sugar, and a bottle of milk in the middle of the table. Almost before she had finished, the children slipped into their places, filled their bowls with cereal, heaped the cereal with sugar and poured on milk. 'Tom came in and began to eat in strained silence. Mary just sat. Her abstraction was so complete that she didn't notice when the children slipped from their places and went outside. Only when Tom pushed away his half-eaten food and rose from his chair with such suddenness that it went clattering across the kitchen floor did she look up. "Mary," he said, "don't you even care about the children? Neither Sally nor Ray had washed for breakfast. Do you have any idea where they have gone? This isn't Kaysville, it's Los Angeles, a pretty big place to turn six-year-old kids loose in.. "They'll come back when they're hungry," she said listlessly. "Which should be soon," he answered, "judging by the kind of breakfast they had." He looked with loathing at the table. "This is no food for growing children, nor for a working man either. You've got to snap out of it. I know I was a brute to tear you away from your mother. But after all you're a married woman and should be grown up if you are ever going to be." 191 "I don't want to do anything," she said. "I'm so lonesome I could die. For four months it's been like this. I tell you I can't stand it." She put her head on her hands, and the tears spilled out between her fingers. Tom pulled on his hat as if it were a live thing that had offended him, and walked out of the house. Without waiting to clear the table Mary went into the bedroom and threw herself across the unmade bed. Why had they ever come to this terrible place? They had been so happy back home. Tom had a job ?not a very good one, but they could have managed. Mom lived just around the corner. She invited them to dinner often or brought over something she had cooked. Mary could depend on leaving the children with Mom while she had an afternoon with the girls or went in to Salt Lake for the day. If her work got behind, Mom would help her for a half day to get her work caught up. Then Tom got a chance to take a job in this airplane factory, and nothing would do but. They must pick up and move. Mary had no idea how long she had been crying when the doorbell rang. Her eyes were red and swollen, but she didn't care. Even if it were only the Fuller Brush man, she'd talk to him. She couldn't buy any brushes, but she'd keep him talking as long as she possibly could. For a few minutes she might forget the way Tom had looked at: her. As if the mess they were in was her fault! He was the one that had moved away from Utah. GHE got up from the tumbled bed, pressed a cold cloth against her burning eyes and went to the door. 192 For a minute she was sorry that she had. The two women on the step were so neatly dressed that her house coat suddenly looked as bad to her as it really was. The parched grass on either side of the walk was a reproach. With an almost defiant expression she asked them in and found chairs for them. "Are you Mrs. Martin?" the older of the two asked. At Mary's nod, she continued. "We're Relief Society visiting teachers. I'm Sister Faulk, and this is Jane Bower," she said, indicating her companion. "We haven't seen you at Church." "We took the children to Sunday School once," Mary said, "but: it was so dreadful not to know anyone that I never went again. Tom usually goes to Church Sunday evening, but I stay here with the children." "Try again soon, won't you?" Sister Faulk asked. "This time you'll know Jane and me." Mary found it hard not to respond to the smile of genuine friendliness on the woman's face. "I know how hard it is to be away from home for the first time," Mrs. Faulk continued. "I had that experience twenty years ago, and Jane came here a bride about six months ago. She was fresh from a round of parties, and the quiet almost got her at first." Jane smiled at the older woman's teasing. "I disliked the quiet at home and the noise outside," she said, "but I like it here now." Mary felt swift surprise. 'These women had been as lonely as she was, and they had overcome it. But then, they hadn't left someone like Mom. She didn't intend to get used to it. She meant to make Tom go back. She found herself telling them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 about her life at home. She wanted them to understand why she could never like it here. She wanted Sister Faulk to know that her life hadn't been like just anyone's. She had an uncomfortable feeling that Sister Faulk understood too much. The rest of the day Mary was able to accomplish more. In the back ? of her mind was the feeling that she would like to earn the good opinion of Sister Faulk. She decided that she wouldn't quarrel with Tom any more. 'That night when he came home she would talk to him calmly, make him see that she could never be happy here. Surely he would understand that it was better to live where you could be happy than to have any amount of money. That night when Tom came home, the children, clean and smiling, were waiting for him eagerly. The odor of roasting meat and the good, spicy smell of fresh baked gingerbread came out to him. When dinner was over and the children were in bed Mary came into the living room where Tom sat reading the evening paper. "Not working tonight?" she asked. "Not tonight," he answered, and didn't explain that he had felt too discouraged about conditions at home to put his mind on mechanical problems, and that he had passed up the weekly research appointment. She snuggled on the arm of his chair and rubbed her cheek against his hair. "Let's talk a few minutes," she said. "After you left this morning I cried a long time. I was so lonesome that when you were cross I couldn't stand it. Then the Relief Society teachers came, and somehow I saw my house through PRIZE-WINNING STORY their eyes. I could see that you were right when you said that we couldn't go on like this. I can't seem to get up an interest in anything when I'm so miserable, and there are so many things I don't know how to do. Won't you see if you can't get your old job back or make contacts with some other firm back home? To be there with family and friends is so much more important than any money you can earn staying here." Tom's arm dropped away from her waist. He had felt so encouraged?and now this. Her seeming improvement was only a build-up to get her own way. His voice was tight as he answered her. "It isn't a matter of money. I thought you understood that. We are living in perilous times, when it is every man's duty to do all he can to preserve our way of life. Down here I'm able to work with others to improve our war equipment. Those improvements will be just as important when peace comes again. I'm taking a man's part in a man's struggle." Mary stood up and faced him. "Doesn't it mean anything to you that I'm perfectly miserable?" she asked. ? "Yes, Mary, it does. It means so much that if you can't adjust I'll have to give up and go back. I'll have to forget my dreams of doing something really worthwhile and_ take you back where your mother can take care of you." His lips tightened bitterly. Mary walked over to the window and looked out. As far as she could see the lights were winking?a million lights in thousands of homes and not one house that held a 193 friend; a labyrinth of streets down which she could walk and no one to speak to her; a hundred stores to fight her way through and no one caring whether she got what she wanted or just got trampled. If I can't adjust, she thought. Why must the woman always adjust? A line from an old school reader came back to her: "For men must work, and women must weep." She supposed it was the same in every generation. A lot had been said about the emancipation of women, but when it came right down to it a woman stayed home and waited for some man to come back to her. "Will you give me three more months?" she heard 'Tom say. Three more months of loneliness in the midst of crowds! 'The lights of the city blurred and became a huge ball that spun around and around. She tossed her head to clear her eyes and spoke in a hopeless tone. "Yes, you can have your three months, and I'll make every effort to adjust. I'll play fair." "That's my girl," he said as he took her in his arms. One of us has to be unhappy, she thought, and it might as well be me. It did feel good to be in his arms again. "If you just can't get used to it, darling, I'll take you home, I promise," he said. She crept up closer to him. "THE next Sunday, Mary took the children to Sunday School, and Sister Faulk introduced her to several people. Then Jane came in and sat by Mary, giving her hand a tiny squeeze that seemed to say, "I'm glad you're here." A day or two later Sister Faulk brought her daughter to stay with 194 Sally and Ray, and she took Mary downtown to a cooking class. 'They shopped together frequently and almost every morning talked a few minutes on the telephone. One day at Relief Society the work director handed Mary a piece of cloth, a pattern, and a pair of scissors. "Follow the cutting guide, and you can't go far wrong," she said. Mary sat down and studied the pattern layout carefully. 'Then she pinned the pattern on the cloth and began to cut. Her fingers trembled, and she felt sort of all gone in the pit of her stomach; but others around. Her were cutting, and she would, too. Jane showed her how to cut the notches, and someone else showed her how to be sure the pattern was straight with the material. Finally, the dress was cut. Having cut it, Mary wanted to sew it. She made arrangements to go to the Relief Society room on afternoons when the sewing machine was not in use. When she had finished the dress, it was just the right size for Sally, and she decided to borrow the pattern and make one like it for her own little girl. The night Sally's dress was done, Mary dressed the child in it for dinner. She could hardly wait for Tom's comment. Sally had been cautioned not to say a word until Daddy did, but she strutted and preened as if she had never had a new dress before. It was pink with rather wide white stripes and pockets crosswise of the material. It had a little, square neck that set off Sally's little, round chin to perfection. "Hello," Tom said, "here's my sweetheart all dressed up. A package from home, Mary?" he asked. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 "Mommy made it," the child shouted. "Mommy did? How come?" 'Tom asked. "I've been helping with the welfare sewing at Relief Society," Mary answered.. "I made a dress all alone for the ward donation to the welfare plan, and it turned out so well I made this one for Sally." "It sure is swell," he said, his eyes shining. The next morning an electric sewing machine was delivered. 'There was a card tied to the leg. Mary opened the envelope and read: To my wife, who is a grown-up woman. With all my love. Tom. Tears filled Mary's eyes. She had never been so happy before. She was growing up, and she liked the sensation. She liked the Tom who came home to her evenings now, too. He stepped so joyfully and had such a fund of things about his work to talk over with her. When they invited ? people into their home or when they went out she noticed how other men listened to 'Tom, and her heart beat with pride in him. ONE morning, when the three months were almost up, she got a letter from her mother: You seem to be liking it down there in California, and I am glad.. While we miss you, we know that you must be where Tom can do his best work. For a while I was worried about you. Even if Tom had given in to you and come back home your marriage couldn't have been successful. Whatever came up the rest of your lives, whether he said anything or not, you would know that he felt that if you hadn't spoiled his big chance things would have been different. A woman can't let her husband down in something PRIZE-WINNING STORY big and ever mean the same to him again. I've been interested, too, in what you've said about your friend, Sister Faulk. Relief Society must still be doing business at the old stand. Once when you children were all sick my Relief Society visiting teachers came in with food already cooked, and they took my clothes home to launder. They made it possible for me to get through that siege. I remember, too, my mother's story about the time her father was on a mission to England. That was in the early days of the Church, and Mother was just a small girl. Her little brother was very sick, and Grandmother hadn't been able to leave him in order to work, and the cupboard was painfully bare. Mother and her smaller sister were playing on the floor, although it was long past bedtime. Grandmother was sitting at the bedside of the boy. She seemed to have forgotten she had other children. At the door, and when Mother opened it two women came into the room. One of them folded Grandmother in her arms and said, "I just knew you needed me tonight." They stayed all night. The next morning the child was better. Arrangements were made to get food and fuel until Grandmother could work again. These visitors were called the Necessity Committee in those days, but the work they did was just the same as that done by the visiting teachers today. The necessities, though sometimes different, are just as real today as they were a hundred years ago. I'm glad they found you, dear, and glad you could take advantage of their help. Mary raised her eyes from the page and sat thinking. Four generations of her family helped in time of need by Relief Society visiting teachers! Her mother was right. Her need had been as great as her grandmother's, although it was different. She had Tom with her, but she had nearly lost his respect; and love can't last long when respect is gone. She had been a woman who hadn't grown up. She had needed the help of a kind, wise woman. There was a knock ? 195 Sister Faulk had been that woman. Her gifts of food had made Mary cook so that the plates wouldn't go back empty, a thing her country training couldn't have tolerated. The books and magazines Sister Faulk brought her to read had contained just the things she needed to see her problem straight. The older woman had praised so lavishly, never saying that Mary had improved, just commenting on what a fine person she was. Mary's thoughts were broken into by the telephone ringing. The voice that came to her was that of her dear friend. "Mary, I was wondering if you would be my assistant on this visiting teaching job. We are trying to double the number of our visiting teachers this centennial year. Jane is going to take a new partner, and I'd like you for mine." Tears of gladness filled Mary's eyes that Sister Faulk should want her. "I think you are grand to give me the chance to do for someone else what you have done for me," she said. so Mary stood between Sister Faulk and Jane Bower singing, "Let's be Kind to One Another." In her heart was another song of gratitude for what these women had done for her and the opportunity that was now hers to do the same for someone else. How glad she would be to be one of those to bring about the "centennial of service." "Let each be a sister, brother," she sang, and breathed a little prayer that she might truly be a sister?a good Relief Society sister. EDITORIAL 9 Vol. 29 MARCH, 1942 Anniversary Thoughts N this the one hundredth anniversary of the Relief Society of the Church, the 113,000 members, scattered throughout the world, lift up their hearts and voices in praise and thanksgiving to their Heavenly Father for the blessings this organization has brought to them. We are grateful for the opportunity it offers for helpfulness to others and for self-development; for the unselfishness of its service; for the loftiness of its ideals; for the splendor of its spirit; for the grandeur of its achievements. We are grateful that one hundred years ago in those dark days for woman, when her status was uncertain and her privileges few, there was one man among men who boldly and bravely took the initiative and raised her to her proper sphere. All honor to the Prophet Joseph Smith who, when the Church itself was only twelve years old, gave official recognition and standing to the women of the Church he founded, by giving them an organization which furnished them opportunity for full self-expression and growth, for the exercise of their humanitarian instincts, and for their physical, mental and spiritual development; who advocated the doctrine that women should stand by the side of men and grow and progress with them. His advocacy of this principle was among the important contributions of Joseph Smith to the Latter-day Saint home and family. Mingled with our feelings of appreciation for our blessings, at this time, are those of sorrow and grave anxiety. How sad that in the midst of the commemoration of our century of progress and accomplishment for women we find the world involved in a cruel and heartless war, with all the horrors and sacrifices involved. How tragic that women who bear and bring up sons do not have more influence with respect to the abolition of war! In these days of anxiety let us regard one another with tenderness, love, and sympathy; let us put our trust in the Lord and unite in fervent appeals to Him for strength and courage to meet life each day as it comes with faith and composure, and to turn men's hearts to ways of peace. Our greatest source of help and comfort at any and all times lies in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and in the spiritual security which comes from a testimony of its truthfulness. It is my testimony that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true; that it has been restored in its fullness in these latter days; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God; that the Father and Son appeared to him in vision; that he heard the voice of God say, "This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!"; that the Prophet was the instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father in restoring the Gospel in its fullness. ?President Amy Brown Lyman PAGE 196 EDITORIAL - 197 Relief Society Passes Membership Goal THE announcement of the General Board that, according to a preliminary tabulation, the Relief Society has exceeded its centennial membership goal of 100,000 by achieving an enrollment of more than 113,000 as of December 31, 1941, is cause for rejoicing among Relief Society workers everywhere. This announcement was made February 11, 1942, and was included in Official Bulletin No. 24, dated Febtuary 19, 1942. 'This outstanding achievement brings to a brilliant culmination the intensive four-year membership-building program launched in 1938. During the past four years, Relief Society women everywhere have worked with interest, enthusiasm, and efficiency in the interest of increased membership. Their vision, resourcefulness, and diligence have been an inspiration, and the result of their efforts stands as a monument to their powers of achievement, an achievement as magnificent and far-reaching as any single achievement in the history of the organization. At the time the membership program was launched, the Society had an approximate enrollment of 75,000 women. For the first three years of the campaign, approximately 5,000 new members were enrolled each year. At the beginning of 1941, 9,000 new members were needed to reach the centennial goal of 100,000. Spurred on by the establishment of new quotas in each stake and mission, based on the number of Latter-day Saint families in each division, the women set to work with a will, and enlisted during the last year of the campaign more than 22,500 new members?a phenomenal record for so short a period. When we realize that in four years time more than 38,000 new members have been enrolled, and that this number represents an increase of more than 50 percent of the enrollment as of the end of 1937, we have some comprehension of the magnitude of the accomplishment. This magnificent achievement is not due to any single individual or group, but is the result of an all-out effort. The Relief Society General Board, stake boards, ward officers, teachers, and members, other Church auxiliaries and the Priesthood have all endorsed the movement and have contributed to a realization of the goal set. We particularly appreciate the endorsement of the movement by the First Presidency, and the active cooperation of stake and mission presidents, bishops, and branch presidents. Their support has encouraged the women and has been an important factor in the actual enlistment of new members. While figures have been very much to the fore during this intensive campaign, they were after all merely a mark to aim at and a gauge for measuring progress. The great objectives of the movement were the building of Latter-day Saint women and the strengthening of the Society, that it in turn might be a strength to the Church. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father for the inspiration that brought about the membershipbuilding program and for the diligence that has carried it to so glotious a culmination.?B. S. S. HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon To lighten the load for others brings gladness to one's self. ALICE HEGAN RICE, author of Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, died last month. In her writings she expressed a helpful philosophy; for instance, "I've made it a practice to put all my worries down In the bottom of my heart, then sit on the lid and smile." ILY DJANEL, new Metropolitan soprano and world-famous "Carmen," is a French refugee. She was singing in Paris five days before it was taken by the Germans. She has taken New York by storm?not of artillery, but voice and charm. | Si saab COCHRAN, ?famous aviatrix, has been assembling about 400 American women flyers to augment the present so British women ferry pilots in the British Air Transportation Auxiliary. [ JEUTENANT COLONEL POLLY POTTERS, head of the Eaglette Flying Squadron, a group of 64 Southern California women, has offered the services of the Squadron to the United States as ferry pilots and general assistants to the army, navy, and coast guard. OMEN taxicab drivers have made their appearance on San Diego streets. These cabbyettes are necessary to meet the shortage of men drivers leaving for service in the army and navy. NANCY MERKI, fifteen-year-old Portland, Oregon, girl swimmer, holds a world record with four AmerPAGE 198 ican marks, and seven national championships. She was noted the outstanding woman swimmer for 1941. CAROLE LOMBARD'S | tragic death in an airplane accident closed the brilliant career of one of filmdom's beloved characters, and created many changes in the motion picture world. MARY FIELDS GARNER, age 106, Emily Hodgetts Lowder, 101, and Tressie Heath Burgess, go, Utah pioneer mothers, all well and hearty, received honors this last winter on their anniversaries. How marvelous to have lived a century of usefulness! ELIZABETH PUGSLEY HAYWARD, honored civic and Church woman leader, Sophie J. L. McKean, a Gold Star mother, Genevieve Alice Pyper, Ann Nebeker, and Genevieve Bourne, of Utah, and Louise L. Fisher, of Idaho, are listed among the prominent women who died this past winter. All were daughters of Utah pioneers and earnest workers in Church and state affairs. ELEANOR DARK'S Australian story, The Timeless Land, Dragon Seed by Pearl Buck, Marion Alive by Vicky Baum, Saratoga Trunk by Edna Ferber, and Lonely Parade by Fannie Hurst, are among the latest outstanding books by women. Notes. FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS Norwegian Mission (Oslo, Norway ) KRISTOFA SONSTEBY, president of the Relief Society in the Norwegian Mission, wrote from Oslo on October 23, 1940, as follows: "We thank you for the Relief Society lessons received some time ago, both sets at the same time. We had then lost all hope of getting the lessons in time to get them translated and sent out, so we had worked out a lesson plan ourselves, and the Relief Society had started their meetings the first Tuesday in September. We decided then that the organizations could continue with the program on which they had 'started. We hope that is all right with you. The lessons may be used next year. It is hard to tell how the mail connection and the conditions will be by then. "In our organization here in Norway we have selected for our theology lesson Apostle James E. Talmage's book The Articles of Faith. The district sisters' lessons are worked from Apostle John A. Widtsoe's and Sister Leah D. Widtsoe's book The Word of Wisdom, A Modern Interpretation. In our third meeting we read and discuss the world's best authors. Instead of using lessons in the social service meeting, the sisters do sewing and mending for poor people, and discuss cooking and preparing of food. Elders have helped to write. "All of us are well, and the Relief Society sisters attend their meetings as before and are interested in the work. "I thank you in behalf of all of us for your kind greetings sent through the General Secretary, and we also thank all our sisters over there for the prayers ascended in our behalf." Argentine Mission (Buenos Aires, Argentina) FOLLOWING are excerpts from a letter dated January 7, 1942, from Corraine S. Williams, president of Relief Societies in the Argentine Mission: "We had a very successful bazaar on December 6; we found the date before Christmas much better than in March (our fall). "Also, I might mention that each of our branches has a little bank, into which each sister can put from ten to twenty cents as often as she is able. This amount is donated directly to the welfare plan. "We are making plans for our celebration in April. We have an original production which several of the It will contain original music, dances, and dialogue, and of course is entirely in Spanish. I will try and send a synopsis of it in English at a later date. We have titled it "The Light of the World, or A Guiding Hand. PAGE 199 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 RELIEF SOCIETY AT ANCHORAGE, ALASKA RELIEF SOCIETY AT FAIRBANKS, ALASKA Dressed in their Alaskan parkas, INSTITUTE Or ee 452 SOUTH REDWOOD ROA SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 231 RELIEF SOCIETY AT FAIRBANKS, ALASKA, JUNE, 1941 May Oldroyd, president, at extreme right. Seventh from the right is Martha Swanson, baptized in May, 1941. "As yet we are living in a land of peace and have felt no personal privations more than a quite drastic raise in prices. We are very thankful for the blessings that we receive and for the privilege of serving in the mission field." Northwestern States Mission (Portland, Oregon) EDITH WILLIAMS, president of the Relief Society at Anchorage, Alaska, sent the accompanying picture and the following report dated November 11, 1940: "This being the first Relief Society organized in Anchorage, Alaska, we are very proud of our branch. "We are having very good success with our meetings. We meet at homes?one month's meetings are held at one sister's home, then we rotate. Her little daughter is by her side. "Our organization consists at present of sixteen members, and we have one or two visitors attend each meeting. A very lovely Relief Society spirit prevails among the sisters, and we are following the lessons as outlined." Pictures are also shown of the Relief Society at Fairbanks, Alaska. Southern California Mission (Los Angeles, California ) N August 22, 1941, Myrtle Owen, counselor to Connie Pace, president, called at the office of the General Board with the following report of this energetic and resourceful Relief Society in an isolated mining town: "In the little mining town of Hayden, Arizona, although we are miles from any of the branches of the Church, we are trying to carry on a a Russian Eskimo, who first met missionaries in 1940 while they were tracting. She was 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 RELIEF SOCIETY AT HAYDEN, ARIZONA Relief Society and Sunday School. "Hayden is situated in the hills 100 miles from Mesa, 75 miles from Tucson, 42 miles from Globe. We have no place of our own in which to hold meetings. Our Sunday School meets in the K. P. Lodge hall, and Relief Society meets in*the ladies' room of the smelter club (this room is rent free). "In 1933, this place closed down and most of the families moved away. In 1937, it reopened and people moved back. We wanted to have meetings, so some of the ladies attended a meeting in Tucson and asked the mission president to send us someone to organize us. In November, 1937, we held our first meeting. We had the Handbook and several Magazines, and the majority of us had been workers in Relief Society before the shutdown. We have seventeen enrolled and had an average attendance of eleven for the past season. It is impossible to have food sales or bazaars, so we sponsor picture shows to get a little money. We can't do the regular Church welfare work as we'd like to, but this year once a month we contributed articles of food. We have helped the Red Cross, and so far this year (including August's quota) we have turned in 143 garments and have about 580 hours to our credit?more than any of the other organizations here, according to the Red Cross leader. "We have every available Latterday Saint lady enrolled. During the summer the president contacted five ladies who had never joined?two of these ladies are on cattle ranches in the hills and can't attend very often; one is a school teacher and can't attend; one is a young mother who will come; and one sister is seventyseven years old, and although she has been a member of the Church NOTES FROM THE FIELD for fifty years, she had never been able to attend a Relief Society, so now after all these years she asked to join with us and will attend when her health will permit. Of our present enrollment we have six nonmembers enrolled, and four of those are regular attendants and have missed few meetings in the past two years. We have eleven Magazine subscriptions, and three of the subscribers are non-members. This summer's enrollment of five new members will swell our membership." Hawaiian Mission (Honolulu, T. H.) ARMADA B. COX, president of Hawaiian Mission Relief Societies, submitted during 1941 the two reports which follow: "April 26, 1941 "The ninety-ninth birthday anniversary of the Relief Society was not forgotten in the Hawaiian Mission where appropriate programs were held in the various districts and branches. One of the most outstanding was at Kalaupapa, Molokai (the leper settlement), where members of the active branch dramatized the organization of the Relief Society by Joseph Smith. The eight General Presidents of the Society also were impersonated. "Another outstanding observance was in the Hilo District, where a bazaar, program, and dance were held under the able supervision of Mrs. Makaiwa Loa, president of the Hilo District Relief Society. (See accompanying pictures.) This was in connection with the district's semiannual conference held March 15 and 16, 1941. A feature of the pro- 203 gram was an hour's concert by the Hawaii County band. Many beautiful Hawaiian quilts and other handwork, also delicious Hawaiian cakes, were displayed. Sister Loa and her helpers from the six branches of the district deserve much credit for the success of the bazaar and conference, as do the missionaries of both the Japanese and Hawaiian Missions." August 6, 1941 "The making of a major portion of 14,500 white, red, and blue paper Hibiscus flowers for a prize-winning Independence Day float was the free-will offering of the Relief Society of the Paia Branch, Island of Maui in the Hawaiian Mission. 'The organization has but twenty-four members, five of whom are not members of the Church. The float, in the form of a battleship, was entered in the parade by the Maui Agriculture Company. Mrs. Martha Hokoana, president of the Paia Relief Society, was asked if the 'Mormon Women's Club' could make 4,000 paper Hibiscus, and she replied in the affirmative. Asked what the charge would be, she replied that the women would donate their services. "About July 1, it was found that the elaborate plans for the float called for nearly 15,000 flowers instead of the 4,000 originally asked for. Other women and girls, also the Mormon elders, were called upon to help under the direction of the Relief Society, and the float was finished late the night of July 3. It easily won first place. "Because of their splendid and beautiful work, the sisters won much praise in newspaper stories and otherwise, and have been promised substantial help if and when they GROUP OF MISSION AUTHORITIES, HILO DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS AND HELPERS, L. D. S. 'GYMNASIUM, HILO, HAWAII, MARCH 15, 1941 Seated in front, left to right, are President Jay C. Jensen and Eva B. Jensen of the Japanese Mission; Mrs. Makaiwa Loa, president of the Hilo District Relief Society; President Armada B. Cox of the Hawaiian Mission Relief Society, and President Roscoe C. Cox of the Hawaiian Mission., RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, HILO DISTRICT, HAWAIIAN MISSION, MARCH 15, 1941 Showing part of the Hawaiian quilts and other handiwork displayed, and also a group of Hilo District Relief Society officers and workers; famous Hawaiian cakes were also displayed, but are not included in the picture. NOTES FROM THE FIELD ELDER WILLIAM J. CHAMBERS, OF EDEN, UTAH Standing in front of prize-winning float for which Paia Relief Society on the Island of Maui made most of the 14,500 Hibiscus blooms. Need it. They have been invited to have a booth in a large carnival sponsored by the Maui Agriculture Company in September, and will be given fifty percent of the proceeds for a new chapel expected to be built in the next few months." Reports from Mrs. Cox indicate that the Relief Societies in the Hawaiian Mission are growing both in number, unity, and effectiveness. In her letter of January 26, 1942, she said: "I think the Hawaiian Mission did its full share toward bringing the total Relief Society membership in the Church to 100,000 by 1942. There were actually only twenty-two organized and active branch Relief Societies in the Mission when I arrived in July, 1939... Now we have thirty-six, and all seem to be increasingly active and enthusiastic. Many Relief Society members do not belong to the Church?at present. "During 1941 there was a net increase of ten new branch organizations with a corresponding expansion in activities and membership, while visits and help to the needy and sick have greatly increased. Food raising, food preserving, sewing, quilting, and other projects are being carried on; much help was given toward construction of the Oahu Stake Tabernacle; help has been and is being given toward new chapels, gymnasiums, and recreation halls, and toward keeping buildings and grounds in a clean, inviting condition. And the missionaries still find many faithful 'mothers' among the Relief Society sisters who render services for these young men and women that should be greatly appreciated by the real mothers back in Utah and other states. 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE TORONTO BRANCH OF THE CANADIAN MISSION Seated at extreme left are Jemima Davies, president of the Toronto Relief Society, and Emily J. Smith, president of Relief Societies of the Canadian Mission. "Communication between the Islands has not been up to par since December 7; also work for me has been greatly increased, and working hours have been cut down by nightly blackouts. However, all is well here, and there has been considerable increase in all Church activities that are permitted under present conditions." Canadian. Mission. (Toronto, Ontario, Canada) HE accompanying picture shows the members of the Toronto Branch Relief Society gathered in the recreation hall of the chapel where light refreshments were served between the two sessions of the Toronto Branch Relief Society conference on September 29, 1940. Margaret Zuber, secretary-treasurer, who submitted the picture, reported that "at the evening session Elder David A. Smith, president of the Canadian Mission, was present and_ stressed the importance of Relief Society work, also the importance of women's membership in the organization. The Singing Mothers rendered several numbers, including 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' " Syrian Mission (Aleppo, Syria) ABRAHAM HINDOIAN, branch president at Aleppo, Syria, in a letter dated September 7, 1941, and received by the General Board February 18, 1942, wrote: "I thank you that you remembered us by letter dated May 16, 1941. 'The Relief Society lessons for 1941-42 are in hand. They reached us just in time, August 18, 1941. We are indeed NOTES FROM THE FIELD grateful. Through your help our sisters are progressing more and more in their understanding of the Gospel. We are thankful to the Lord that in these latter days He sent a prophet to this earth, and we are grateful to be members of His Church. We appreciate our active Relief Society sisters who help to carry on this great work. All our Relief Society members hope to hear from you and ask that you remember us in your prayers. If you remember, today it is two years since the war started on September 7, 1939." South African Mission (Mowbray, C. P., South Africa) THE following excerpts are from letters dated November 29, 1940, and January 13, 1942, from Josephine H. Folland, president of Relief Societies in the South African Mission: "We are near the close of our year's work, and are very happy, for in spite of these perilous and uncertain times we have had a very successful year. Although we have done considerable war work, we have not let it interfere with the Relief Society program. Almost all of our knitting was done at the homes of the members, and we devoted a few hours each month in our workand-business meeting to the making of bandages for the Red Cross. "Our ' smallest Relief Society, Eerste River, which has been able to raise through their efforts in selling homemade jams, jellies, boutonnieres, and eggs (a profit of a penny a dozen) a sum of just over ten pounds. Their accomplishment has been really remarkable. "The women this year (1940) for 207 the first time have been interested in quilt making. We have made several here and in the branches. It is quite a new art for these women. We have had to use feathers or a blanket as padding, because wool or cotton bats are not obtainable here. "Our auxiliary year closed November 30, 1941, so I would like to review just a few of our activities during the past year. "Just a year ago Our missionaries left us. I must say that I was a little discouraged with the thoughts of trying to carry on this important work without their help and 'support. But as I look back over the past year, we have been able, with the help of our Heavenly Father, to have our meetings as usual and have really been able to carry on the work very well considering these anxious and perilous times. "We have indeed been blessed with immediate peaceful surroundings and with all the necessities of life, with very few inconveniences, _such as no white flour, small quantities of butter, and now rationing of petrol. "Many of our young men are away on active service and also our young women, but the women, especially our fine Relief Society members, have been able to fill in the gaps splendidly. "We held our old folks' dinner, Relief Society conferences, and socials throughout the year as usual, even though most of our members have war duties in addition to their other duties. "Three of the larger branches held very successful bazaars, realizing proceeds enough to care for the charity work for the coming year, which we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942. A GROUP OF WORKERS AT ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR HELD NOVEMBER 5, 1941, MOWBRAY, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA Josephine H. Folland, president of South African Mission Relief Societies, is seated, center. S THE FANCY-WORK STALL, RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION Josephine H. Folland, Mission Relief Society president, at right. NOTES FROM THE FIELD RELIEF SOCIETY AT FREMONT, NEBRASKA The president, Mildred Powell, is at the left on front row. Anticipate will be very heavy. Our attendance record has fallen down a little, owing to the war activities, but we were able to send in fifty subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. "We are busy planning our centennial programs." Western States Mission (Denver, Colorado) LUCEAL R. CURTIS, president of Relief Society in the Western States Mission, sent on December 30, 1941, the accompanying picture of the Relief Society which was organized at Fremont, Nebraska, March 25, 1941, with nine members. She reported that "this little group has established an enviable record in that they have 100 percent Magazine subscriptions, and they have paid their membership dues in full." Eva S. Sumner, president of the Relief Society at Hanna, Wyoming, another branch of the Western States Mission, wrote on January 13, 1942: "Our Relief Society is nearly four years old. Last year we organized a Sunday School in Hanna. "Today, at our work-and-business meeting, we celebrated the birthday of our oldest member, Sister Annie Tate. She was born in England January 11, 1853, and in 1888 she and her husband emigrated to America. She has lived in Wyoming ever since. "Sister Tate has been a constant subscriber to Relief Society publications since 1890, first to the Woman's Exponent and then to the Relief Society Magazine. She spends a great deal of her time reading. She also crochets and makes hairpin lace. At the close of our meeting today we served a luncheon to eighteen members and friends." 210 Tahitian Mission (Papeete, Tahiti) VENUS R. ROSSITER, president of Relief Societies in the Tahitian Mission, wrote on December 20, 1941, as follows: "The Articles of Faith have been translated into the Tahitian language, which we shall use in our lesson work. "With our branches so widely scattered and communication so infrequent, I have not yet learned the conditions of the Relief Societies of the remote islands. In Papeete, Takaroa, and Hikuru, they are functioning as they were a year ago before the departure of the missionaries. "We are happy in our work here notwithstanding the great disadvantage of being without missionaries to carry on the work and encourage the Saints on the isolated islands of the mission." Swiss Mission (Basel, Switzerland) "THE following excerpts are from a letter from Elder Max Zimmer, acting president of the Swiss Mission, which was received during the summer of 1941 by Elder Thomas E. McKay, European Mission president in Salt Lake: "We appreciate very much your kind attention in sending us the Relief Society lessons so early. This - gives us time to do good work in translating and adapting them. Last year we received only the Theological and Church History material. As a substitute for the Social Science course we used the very fine and practical teachings and instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society sisters in Nauvoo, as contained in Elder Joseph Fielding Smith's compilation of the Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 Sister Stoecklin approved of it, and I collected and translated the texts, and we sent them out as a mimeographed nice little 'heft' of twelve pages. 'The sisters are now about through with these lessons, which, according to all reports, were liked and enjoyed very much by them. "To us, receiving and reading Church publications from headquarters has, spiritually speaking, the same effect as rain on a thirsty desert. "Our Relief Societies go on with their good work just as usual. Meetings are held regularly, and the charity work and other activities are going on as before. We organized a new Society in the little, but lively, branch of Langnau, with Sister Schwarzentrueb as president, and are planning to organize two more, one in Olten and one in Wattenwil. The sisters are really doing a great work. Last spring and summer, when most of our men were called into the army and a number of our branches were temporarily left without any brethren at all, we asked our sisters to meet with the women and children, holding meetings as far as possible and keeping the branches alive. Of course those branches were visited by the mission supervisor or by older brethren from nearby branches at least once a month to administer the sacrament and take care of special cases, but the sisters responded in a splendid way to our call. This is also true in regard to the Relief Society visiting teachers; they too are a very fine help, especially in branches where we are very short of ward teachers?and this is still the case in most of our branches. "We look forward to March 1942, with great anticipation, and though comparatively small in numbers, we NOTES FROM THE FIELD want to join the Church in commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of the organization, and make it the climax of our membership drive which has been going on since last winter." In a letter dated November 2, 1941, R. Simond, Swiss District president, acknowledged receipt of Relief Society lessons for 1941-42, which were translated before being forwarded to the Society. He added: "Up to now we have nothing to complain of. We have been able to hold meetings as we liked, but in winter we have to combine some organizations with others to save some coal, as fuel is short over here. In regard to food, we still have plenty, although we have to be careful and count well, but we must be thankful to the Lord to have spared our little country up to now." British Mission (London, England) MARIE W. ANASTASIOU, president of the British Mission Relief Societies, sent the following report of conditions in a letter dated December 18, 1941: "The Relief Society organizations in the British Mission are functioning without interruption. With the help of President Anastasiou, the sisters in the office, and my board members, we manage to keep going. Of course the war conditions do not permit free travel and even meeting in board meetings regularly. The sisters are scattered, and we only meet occasionally by arrangement. However, we are glad to say that there are at the present time forty-six Relief Societies functioning. In the reports received from November, 146 meetings were held. Each Society is in funds and has been able 211 to carry on the meetings, the lessons, and generally adhere to the program outlined in the Relief Society Magazine. Regarding the Relief Society Magazine, approximately ninety subscriptions are in operation now. "Regarding the centennial celebrations, we have published in the Star the summary of recommendations contained in Bulletin No. 18. Immediately after Christmas we propose to devote a greater space in the Star to our work. Two articles by Sister Lyman have been published? one in November and the other in the first issue of January, 1942. "At our annual district conferences, held during the summer months, it was an inspiration to attend meetings, the attendance of women at some of these conferences being as high as eighty-five to ninetyfive. Our meetings were very profitable indeed. The sisters manifested eagerness and readiness to continue to function in various auxiliary organizations, especially in the Relief Society "We return from each conference very much encouraged by the Saints' devotion. "There is a Relief Society supervisor in each of the fourteen districts in the mission. The sisters are very much handicapped in being unable to travel, but nevertheless our monthly reports reach us with fairly good regularity. "During the last year and continuing to the present time, the sisters are knitting woolen articles for the Red Cross and are assisting local organizations in war work. We have sent in the past to the refugee organization in London several parcels of clothing received from the branches of the mission. This work 212 was done by the Relief Societies. We have just suggested that every Relief Society send us five shillings from their charity. Fund, and the total amount received shall be sent to Mrs. Churchill's Red Cross Aid for Russia. _ "We are happy to say that there is no distress or want among the members who have been bombed, as they were taken care of as much as it was possible in the circumstances by the branch and district presidencies; and major relief came, of course, from the Government. All of them are rehabilitated, and as far as we know there is no want or suffering. None of our members have suffered physically in the past air raids." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 More than a year earlier, Mrs. Anastasiou wrote on December 3, 1940, as follows: "We have organized a clothing fund wherein we can help the distressed and the homeless. I am enclosing the letter which we received from the authorities. We have had numerous letters of this nature, so I thought I would enclose one just to let you see our Relief Society is being recognized, not only by the Red Cross, but by the London County Council." 'This letter was from the Public Assistance Department of the London County Council, thanking the Relief Society for much-needed clothing for the Gibraltar evacuees.. MARY-MARTHA AM Courtney E. Cottam Today I did the simple tasks of home, Erasing chaos left by children's play; Neatness ushered in a singing peace? My hands were Martha's hands today. Today I soothed to rest a troubled child, Walked with a lad who might have lost his way; Gave courage to one bending with his load? My heart was Mary's heart today. With Martha's hands I minister to man; With Mary's heart I ease his weary way; I pray that I may always do His will, With Martha's hands, with Mary's heart, each day. The Relief Society Magazine Drive MAGAZINE representatives are once more to be commended upon the results of their efforts. The present Magazine circulation is approximately 55,000, due in large measure to the faithfulness and diligence of stake, ward, mission and branch Magazine representatives, actively supported by Relief Society executive officers and a loyal Relief Society membership. The increased enrollment in the wards and branches, due to the intensive work during the past year in connection with the membership-building program, appears to have given impetus to the work of Magazine representatives and to have been an important factor in the success achieved. The General Board is sincerely appreciative of all that has been accomplished, and acknowledges the direct relationship of the success of Magazine work to that of all other phases of Relief Society work. The General Board is pleased to announce that this year a one-year free subscription to the Magazine will be awarded to 'all representatives securing subscriptions equal to 75 percent of the ward or branch enrollment, irrespective of the number of subscriptions secured. Heretofore in order to obtain this award a minimum of at least 25 subscriptions was required together with a subscription percentage of 75 or above of the ward or branch enrollment. This new ruling means that free subscriptions will be awarded to. 298 representatives. In compiling the Magazine honor roll we note that a number of wards and branches based their percentages upon the membership figures as of December 31, 1940, rather than of December 31, 1941. Instructions to stake Magazine representatives state: "In compiling reports first verify ward enrollment with enrollment as shown on annual ward reports as of December 31 of the same year." Those Relief Societies which mistakenly compared the 1940 membership with Magazine subscriptions entered during the calendar year 1941 may not have achieved as high a percentage as they thought, inasmuch as the membership count at the end of 1941 was much higher in most wards and branches than at the end of 1940. Disappointments due to this misunderstanding are most sincerely regretted. Heretofore in publishing the honor roll wards and branches have been classified according to enrollment in three groups, as follows: Group A, those Societies with an enrollment of 100 or over; Group B, those Societies with an enrollment of 50 to 99 inclusive; Group C, those Societies with an enrollment of less than 50. Wards and branches in which subscriptions were secured equal to 75 percent of the ward or branch enrollment, together with their respective Magazine representatives, were listed on the honor roll according to percentages secured. In order that stakes, wards, missions, and branches may mote readily find their respective listings, the honor roll for 1941 is presented herewith in alphabetical order. PAGE 213 Stake or Mission Alberta Alpine Australian Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Box Elder Burley Cache California Riverside District El Dorado District Fresno District PAGE 214 HONOR ROLL Ward or Branch Hartley Highland Adelaide Brisbane Enmore Hurstville Melbourne Oyster Bay Woollahra Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Lanark Liberty Ovid. Paris Second Sharon St. Charles Collinston Howell Park Valley Penrose Stone Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cowley Lovell West Powell Pingree Springfield Romedale Atlanta. Boise Fourth Brigham Second Evans Perry Pella Unity Logan Fourth Sonora Coalinga Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. 18 78 47 92 225 106 17 155 46 131 30 88 44 259 28 97 9 75 11 122 28 go 25 78 48 96 459 75 43 100 36 80 55 100 21 78 31 79 35 76 7? ws 17 85 74 76 10 83 28 92 40 98 32 114 30 107 772 86 49 114 17 94 67 106 74 Re a) 125 91 170 94 33 132 35 113 23 77 11 79i 100 46 115 21 100 44 102 46 102 53 106 162. 80 34 77 6 75 Magazine Representative Annie Orr Louella Binns Violet Cook Gertrude L. Latter P. M. Brown Margaret Rood Ethel Parton Katie Hokin Ellen Woolley Mavis L. Burroughs Dorothy Steel Emma Collins Theone Smith Hattie Findlay Effie W. Stock Lovina Jenkins Barbara S. Norris Elizabeth Eborn Edna K. Morgan Merietta Sorenson Della R. Hulme Hazel Long Bertha Peterson Geneva Whitney Veda B. Mason Emma Carter Dott M. Simms Christine Neal Ann E. Gwynn Lova Kinghorn Mary Youst Dorothy Yorgason Sally Griffin Hope B. Eyre Bertha M. Hile Irene E. Safford Sarah E. Cammack Vera Lloyd Esther Thompson Lillis H. Melander Sarah H. Horsley Cleo Andersen Ida Y. Thorne Alice Freer Afton Baker Rachel Fuhriman Ellen S. Mellon Amy A. Johnson Eleanor Ihnen e HONOR ROLL Stake or Mission Ward or Branch Imperial Valley Dist. Brawley Monterey Bay Dist. Northern Arizona District Riverside District Santa Barbara Dist. Santa Rosa District Shasta District Carbon Cassia Chicago Duchesne Eastern States Emery Emigration Franklin Garfield Granite Idaho Idaho Falls Juarez Kanab Salinas Chino Valley Prescott Second Beaumont-Banning Lompoc Santa Paula Geyserville Red Bluff Price Third Spring Glenn Spring Canyon Oakley Third Milwaukee Milwaukee South University Utahn Bradford Buffalo Canandaigua Harrisburg Newburgh Philadelphia Reading Scranton Trenton Wilson Orangeville Twelfth Fairview Mapleton Junction Hawthorne Nibley Park Hatch Kelly Toponce Ammon Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Third Lincoln Chihuahua Chuichupa Dublan Garcia Juarez Pacheco Moccasin Enrollment 12 | 215 Magazine Representative Tessie Slocum Amy H. Merrill 82 Ida H. Turley Subscriptions No. Pct. 9 75 14 82 9 39 108 16 145 11 79 9 75 5 83 12 g2 126 84 39 % 53 79 24 80 46 79 15 83 49 Ki 15 79 6 100 15 mt 11 100 7 100 10 91 38 119 8 114 6 100 6 120 13 87 98 84 151 102 92 100 29 OF al rg 201 81 142 76 12 86 ei 95 11 85 93 78 128 107 95 76 103 78 5? ? 13a O44 5 83 24 109 40 105. Fe 47 80 9 ? 8 80 Veda Scott Lucy Lyle Shirley Stauffanson Leona Southwick Mary L. Sanders Mrs. Alma Ryan Junie Allred Myrtle Whorff Nina Fadis Lovina Critchfield Mildred Hilbig Vivienne Hart Ingeborg Friberg Matilda Wright Mary Ellen Lovell Winifred Couch Nellie Lodge Grace B. Loye Adelaide M. Horning Doris Bulkley Pearl D. Yeager Ella Brown Marion Thoburn Emma Grace Hare Louise Tuttle Nellie Kendall Annie W. Gilbert Cora Knapp ~ Hattie M. Ipson Charlotte Stout Emma Armstrong Valera Johnson Fern Cooper Reta E. Bowler Christie Heath Ila Sams Phoebe Peterson Laura Hops Ellen Jensen Jennie Bowman Theresa T. Wagner Cora Judd Jennie Bowman Ida Kartchner Mildred Farnsworth Margaret M. Johnson Margaret Heaton 216 Stake or Mission 'Kolob Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Millard Minidoka Moapa Montpelier Morgan Mt. Graham Mt. Ogden Nampa Nevada RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 Ward or EnrollSubscriptions Magazine Branch ment No. Pct. Representative Springville Fourth = 187 140 75 Lela Sumsion Diamond City 20 15 75 Adeline Simmons Edmonton 26 26 100 Irene Barber Picture Butte - 30 23 77. Eva D. Salmon Harvard 147 115 79 Thelma S. Schmidt Providence First 78 62 79 Clara Astel Young 28 24 86 Emma Speth Compton 110 85 77 Jessie Hall ' Santa Ana 70 54 77 Ruby B. Martin Wilmington 56 55 98 Ada Parkins Adams 167 133 80 Edith Hance Wilshire 175 148 85 Myrtle C. Foulger Challis 18 14 78 Virga Stevens Leadore 13 14 108 Leda Dalby Daniels 13 13 100 Louise Gilgen Holbrook 32 28 88 Alice J. Hubbard Malad First 77 75 97 Esther Hess Portage 66 52 80 Esther E. John Reynolds 15 12 80 Mabel J. Smith Woodruff 22 17 77. Afton Ward Gilbert 27 24 89 Donetta Fuller Lehi 42 33 79 Minerva Rothrock Mesa First 147,111 76 Rachel Johnson Mesa Fifth 119 89 75 Lucy D. Chesley Mesa Fourth 84 87 104 Grace Burton Mesa Third 106 86 81 Nina Stapley Pine 25 23 g2 Ina P. Hunt Superior 26 23 88 Abbie Bell Flowell 22 19 89 Ruth Allen Scipio 136 102 75 Nora Ivie Acequia ? 47 42 89 Ella Harrison Hazelton 31 31 100 DeLila Wickham Rupert First 43 52 121 Martha A. Probst Bunkerville 56 43 77 Tamzen Adams Littlefield 14 15 107 Leona M. Corbridge Logandale 53 52 98 Lillian Adams Mesquite 82 62 76 Josephine Hughes Bern 26 20 77. Myrtle Steckler Geneva 31 28 90 Rosetta Teuscher Montpelier First 75 64 85 Cleone Bagley Nounan 19 17 89 Florence Bartschi Raymond 15 13 87 Eleanor Saxton Wardboro 19 20 105 Evva Dalrymple Richville 22 18 82 Lillie Clark Slide 24 21 88 Bernice Redden Las Cruces 8 7 88 Marguerite Pyper Solomonville 31 26 84 Lucy Barney Ogden Ninth. 197 147 75 Marguerite Roberts South Weber 4 23 85 Inez B. Bowman Melba 28 21 75 Myrtle Wood Nampa Second 104 81 78 Mary E. Dixon Callao 8 7 88 Inez Tripp HONOR ROLL Stake or Mission New York North Central Sts. North Davis Northern States East Michigan Dist. Indianapolis District South Ohio District Detroit District East Michigan Dist. Ward or Branch Carlin McGill Manhattan Queens Glasgow East Layton Detroit West Flint Pontiac Saginaw East Wisconsin Dist. Green Bay Indianapolis Dist. North Indiana Dist. North Ohio District South Illinois Dist. South Indiana Dist. South Ohio District West Iowa District West Michigan Dist. West Wisconsin District North Weber Oakland Ogden Oquitrh Palmyra Phoenix Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River. Lindhurst Cambridge City Indianapolis North Indianapolis South Fort Wayne Muncie Cleveland Decatur Farmer City Springfield Linton Terre Haute Cincinnati Sioux City Jackson Lansing Eau Claire Marriott Elmhurst Martinez Maxwell Park North Ogden Ogden Fourth Hercules Palmyra Spanish Fork Second Phoenix First Phoenix Second Eugene Grant McCammon Swan Lake Woodland Manavu Sublett Subscriptions No. Pct. 22 96 156 111 48 94 49 78 17 106 1 93 46 = 87 119 87 56 - 80 ? 75 16 100 9 100 4 80 13 108 11 92 34 J 66 100 19 76 17 85 13 81 12 80 6 86. 12 86 14 82 23 96 a" 95 7 88 12 100 26 100 a, 93 26 100 79 95 39??87 56 81 151 92 145 81 18 86 20 100 79 97 87 113 76 36 g2 8 89 69 75 25 86 19 go 145 95 8 80 217 Magazine Representative Charlotte Ferguson Louisa Johnson Ida Sprung Laura Schroeder Lucy M. Tippetts Ella Weaver Mabel Quay. Margaret Sharrer Hulda C. Anderson Evelyn Kane Margaret Sharrer Gertrude Ethington Hazel Branham Sarah Parry Lavina Smithen Lillian Abbott Irene Schatz Mabel Campbell Lena Hansen Fannie P. Little Annje Neilson Pearl Cloward Bertha Galbraith Phoebe Thomson Violet' Anderson Rachel H. Anderson Marian Romriell Marie Henderson Mary L. Edwards Mattie L. Hanks Persis Horn 218 Stake or Mission Reno Rexburg Roosevelt Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph San Diego San Francisco San Juan Santaquin-Tintic ' Seattle Shelley Snowflake Southern Arizona South Los Angeles South Summit Star Valley Taylor Ward or Brarich Alturas Portola Sparks Tonepah Winnemucca Independence Leota Ione Sacramento Tracy Pine Valley St. George Center Santa Clara Veyo Alpine Vernon Miami Pima Logan Heights Balboa Redwood City San Jose Bluff Elberta Bellingham Lincoln Renton University Vancouver, B. C. Goshen Claysprings Heber Joseph City Linden McNary Winslow Woodruff Binghampton Downey Firestone Grant Huntington Park Matthews. Maywood South Gate Vermont Marion Etna Freedom Osmond Magrath Second RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 Enrollment 8 21 86 12 23 41 14 15 81 17 14 96 Subscriptions No. Pct. 9 ne, 2a 129 74, 86 11 92 25 109 35 85 a 79 14 93 101 125 15 88 12 86 '75 sir 79 Ui 94 28 122 13 93 57 76 143 86 42 78 50 91 4o 89 48 75 13 93 2 94 a 75 40 118 18 120 64 81 29 85 61 go 26 104 26 93 53 85 9 82 16 89 50 79 2a 82 50 76 725 83 28 go 44 a 35 76 U2 89 80 75 99 100 98 82 68 94 25 81 39 78 87 78 'ae 80 100 95 Magazine Representative Mable R. Schick K. E. Maxwell Merlyn K. Lampman Clara Logan Thora S. Nickols Pauline Perry Leona Jorgensen Ellen Hyde Zella E. DeVault Carrol Greenhalgh Emma S. Snow Flora M. Brooks Mrs. Archie Gubler Esther Chadburn Ruth Cleveland Ella L. Grau Ella Sims Lydia Zufelt Nancy Bird Henrietta Anderson Charlotte Showers Eliza Horsfield Eva Johnson Harriet Barney Ella M. Petrie Rhoda T. Avery Marie Marlowe Elva Rousell Gladys M. Hailes Nellie Roos Margaret Witt Ruby G. Porter Maurine Porter May Thomas Celia Gardner Rae Wakefield Hortense Bowler Louisa Done Rosine Bauer Florence Heath Elisabeth Winkler Marie Jenkins Dora Wagstaff Elizabeth Bowen Lola L. D. McCoy Delila Hamman Claire Selander Zella B. Johnston Marion Wolfley Martha Brog Mabel Allred Frieda R. S. Henderson HONOR ROLL. Stake or Mission Teton Texas Timpanogos Twin Falls Union Uvada Wasatch Washington Weber Weiser Western States West Jordan Woodruff Yellowstone Ward or Branch Tyrells Lake Warner Bates Jackson Alexandria Austin Pride Lindon Pleasant Grove First Buhl Filer Kimberley Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Baker Imbler LaGrande First Ursine Center Daniels Heber Third Fairview Washington Clinton Hooper Kanesville Ogden Eleventh Fruitvale Letha Belle Fouche Canon City Carson Casper Clovis Craig Freemont Fruita Gallup Glenwood Springs Meeker South Omaha Bluffdale Copperton Herriman Lark Riverton Second Hilliard Chester Egin Farnum Subscriptions No. Pct. 12 120 12 4) 28 97 29 116 9 225 13 81 _ 79 52 76 100 83 326 76 62 77 20 91 42 98 83 75 85 77 41 108 26 81 57 id 12 100 24 96 44 83 124 98 25 81 45 76 86 80 155 78 28 80 114 76 5 79 20 87 11 g2 13 163 6 75 25 83 6 100 = 75 4 88 al 100 18 138 8 89 7 12 120 5 a 79 60 80 58 116 a acd 75 99 27 117 46 96 pis OG 16 84 219 Magazine Representative Clara E. Selk Bertha F. Shields Sady Furniss Emma Thompson Willie Mayo Ernestine Furr Tressie Noble Cosby Rogers Emma Harper Maud Hutchison Ophelia Cox Marilla Fife Melvina McEwen Lenore Carroll Helma Bailey Saddie E. Shelton Bernice Sanders Emma Stringham Zelma Hollinger Lila Christensen Sarah C. Price Annie K. Moulton Mary M. Avey Thelma B. Brown Wanda Beus Florence Naisbitt Aleen H. Hansen Catherine Rose Sophia Ivy Oretta Thornock Sadie Meredith Eula M. Herrin Francis I. Newville Gene Drollinger Jean Jolene Reynolds Delora Livingston Ival Anderson Alice Lang Plainnie Davis Geneve Bair Viola Castle Grace L. K. Comrolley Ida Hardman Gwen C. Knudsen Agnes Dansie Lillis Sandstrom Blanch Myers Naomi Lym Martha Williams Eva Dexter LaVera Hendrickson Stake or Ward or EnrollSubscriptions Magazine Mission Branch ment No. Pct. Representative Green Timber zy 6 86 Dora Stegelmier Heman 23 20 87 Fanny Hunter Twin Groves 40 46 115 Selina Richards Young Kirtland os 52 95 May W. Bond Note: Reports were not received from Juab, Oahu, and San Luis Stakes Message From She Presiding Bishopric (Continued from page 159) The Relief Society has endeavored throughout the century of its existence to educate its members in the correct principles of welfare work, emphasizing the importance of a type of assistance which never demoralizes the individual because of a literal overgenerous supply of necessities, but which, rather, encourages the individual to maintain a degree of self-respect, and which helps in such a way as not to cause him undue humiliation or a feeling of futility. This great mothers' organization advocates: First, to put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God. Respect for the individual and for his personality is a fundamental principle in the art of helping, and, far more important than all, Relief Society teachings aim to maintain the morale of an individual so that he will not lose his independence and allow others to do for him what he can do for himself. Second, any normal individual may require temporary assistance, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a society self-sustaining. Such help causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. If all relief agencies, be they of a religious or governmental nature, would but follow these two fundamentals in social welfare work, there would be little need of concern for the destiny of our great nation, the element of demoralization would disappear, and men would again become strong. There is in the hearts of these "Angels of Mercy" an abiding faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Priesthood, which builds faith and courage in the hearts of those who are beset with many. Of life's problems. Aside from waging a war against poverty, this great organization of women affords its membership many wonderful opportunities in the fields of culture, literature, theology, domestic science, and recreation, literally making it possible for thousands of women who live in the remote parts of the Church to come in contact with the finer things of life. "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy, God" is more than an axiom with the mothers of the Church, it is an actual daily practice in their lives and a shining example of what Paul termed pure religion when he declared: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." (James 1:27) 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 Message From General Church Welfare Committee (Continued from page 161) constant attention to the many details necessary for the proper coordination of the work of the Relief Society with the Priesthood of the Church has unquestionably been largely responsible for the accomplishments of this great women's auxiliary organization in the Welfare Plan. The same can truthfully be said of the present leadership, Sister Amy Brown Lyman, Counselors Donna D. Sorensen and Marcia K. Howells, and General SecretaryTreasurer, Vera White Pohlman. Appreciatively and almost reverently, we, the General Church Welfare Committee, acknowledge your very great accomplishments in the Church Welfare Plan as you celebrate the centennial of your organization. AH She Joy Of Progression (Continued from page 181) meetinghouse may be _ provided where someone may care for the children while mothers attend the meetings. My final tribute to Relief Society is this: For many years my life has been enriched, and I have been made a partaker in the great joy that comes from learning new truths and from a sense of growth and development. My attendance has helped me to be more tolerant, more understanding of human mistakes and suffering, and to have a more intelligent desire to remove the causes of evil amongst us. It has taught me more of the meaning of love for fellow man and given me a deeper insight into the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which alone offers the way to peace and progress for all mankind. I am deeply grateful that the Lord made it possible for woman through study and effort to take her place by the side of man intellectually and spiritually in the march of eternal progression. = Relief Society General Presidents (Continued from page 170) tions. Her extensive travels and excellent education have given her a fund of interesting information, and socially she is a favorite, giving liberally of her talents in the entertainment of friends. No one can predict what awaits Mrs. Lyman in this war-torn world, but whatever comes, she will meet the need and emergency with the same courage as have her predecessors. All have been magnificent women fitted for the day of their leadership. PAGE 221 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1942 SYMBOL William A. Forsyth Last night the earth was dark and dull With a rumbling, rolling cloud; From mountaintop to mountaintop It formed the valley's shroud. Today no clouds are in the sky; The air is fresh and new. This morning marked the season's turn? The grass was wet with dew. Today a lone, brave panzy bloomed ? When it heard a robin sing; A purple splotch on neutral gray? Sure symbol of the spring. 'The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes, but in liking what Ww LARKIN MORTUARIES Dial 7523 Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine one has to do." Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. 