RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
20 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!"
In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- —you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job.
Ask for our "Bulletin of Information"
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City. Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No, 690
'130 complete compare with any other aid regardless of price withthe
$11 McIntyre Bldg.
'Be of good courage, and He shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord." Psalms 31:24.
LARKIN MORTUARIES
Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126
When Buying Mention RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523
OTARION of SALT LAKE Salt Lake City, Utah
Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
THE GLORY OF GOD IS
A Centenary of Relief Society
NOW OFF THE PRESS!
A CENTENARY OF RELIEF Society
A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished. Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title "A Centenary of Relief Society" and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in gold.
96 pages, size 9x12 inches
Over 500 pictures of historical interest.
The price of the book has been kept as low as possible—50 cents per copy, postpaid—whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of 50 cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts.
Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Cover "Education"
IN the cover of this issue of the Magazine is reproduced one of four plaques designed by Avard Fairbanks, Utah-born sculptor, for the base of the proposed Relief Society centennial memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square, Salt Lake City.
Education," the title of this plaque, suggests the instruction and training which further the development of the individual and which advance him along the path of eternal progress. The sub-title, "The Glory of God is Intelligence" (or, in other words, light and truth) is from the Doctrine and Covenants 93:36 and is filled with deep meaning for Latterday Saints. The dove, the symbol of the Holy Ghost, is directly below the word "education," giving great significance to the word. The three standing figures, symbolic of science, art, and religion, represent the three great fields through which truth is conveyed to mankind. In the hand of religion are two sticks. Records compiled by the ancient scribes were referred to as ''sticks."" The sticks in the hand of religion represent the Bible and Book of Mormon. The globe in the central portion of the panel represents the world. The figures are intent upon the affairs of the world, and, more too, they are seeking to learn the eternal and universal truths as well. The lines from the world signify the orbit connecting the whole panel with the realm of the universe. The seated figure at the observer's right is the teacher, and is symbolic of the great educational program of Relief Society. The four books represent the standard works of the Church—Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price.
Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen.
The Frontispiece
The harvest scene used as a frontispiece picture for this issue of the Magazine is from a photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Pauline T. Pingree
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Alice B. Castleton
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Priscilla L. Evans
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Florence J. Madsen
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Ann P. Nibley
Anna B. Hart
Ethel B. Andrew
Gertrude R. Garff
Leona F. Wintch
Edith S. Elliott
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 OCTOBER, 1942 No. 10
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Cover—'Education" Back of Contents
Reaping of a Century—Vesta P. Crawford Back of Frontispiece
Wheat Field (Photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D.) Frontispiece
Relief Society The Hand Annie Wells Cannon
The First Line of Defense—The Home Elder Rufus K. Hardy 671
In Retrospect—Chapter X President Amy Brown Lyman 676
History Perpetuated by the Potter's Nephi L. Morris 673
Rationing: The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop President Amy Brown Lyman 690
Little Memories That Sweeten Life Nellie O. Parker 703
Give Thanks For What Justin C. Stewart 709
Lucile Wallace Wolf 710
Lella Marler Hoggan 713
FICTION
Martha Robeson Wright 684
GENERAL FEATURES
Editorial—The Development of New Leaders 706
"Happenings" 707
Notes to the Field 708
Organizations and Reorganizations 708
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 715
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony—Spiritual Gifts 724
Visiting Teachers—Interest in Missionary work as an Expression of Faith 727
Work-and-Business—Eliminate Household Wastes 729
Literature—Types of Literature in the Bible—Prose 731
Social Science—The Declaration of Independence 735
General Presidents of Relief Society—Zina D. H. Young 738
POETRY
Reaping of a Century Vesta P. Crawford—Back of Frontispiece
Dreams Mabel Jones Gabbott 705
From This To Dusk
A Woman's Awakening Ruby Johnson 712
Hortense Spencer Anderson 742
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 8-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Discontinued

Reaping of a Century wees P. Crawford. Here are the sheaves so bravely won For all the waiting world to see, We hold the harvest in our hands— The reaping of a century. And yet, because the yield is great, The gleaning rich with golden grain, We can never cease our planting And let an idle field remain. We still must pray for April rain And for the glad returning sun, We still must labor in the field— We cannot say our work is done; As long as ordered earth shall turn Around its long established track, The seed time shall return again And God will bring the autumn back; Forever in the field of life There will be hunger and a need For all the gleaning we can give— A waiting multitude to feed. Ever the field in wider span Shall be a place for us to grow, And we shall find our destiny In service where the valiant go; The bearded grain we reap today Shall be tomorrow's vital seed, The amber harvest rich and ripe Shall serve another urgent need; This golden reaping cannot be A latent span to lean upon, The challenge of our heritage Still beckons to a further dawn; We shall see again the bladed wheat In measured beauty on the field, We shall gain another harvest. And we shall glean tomorrow's yield! Note: This poem was written for a particular episode in the pageant "Woman's Century of Revealed Light'' which was to have been presented as a part of the Church-wide Relief Society centennial observance, to be held in Salt Lake City, and which was postponed due to the war. As this poem was being read, fifty golden-haired women were to have advanced down the aisles of the Tabernacle symbolic of the harvest of a century being carried into the new century. vol. 29, No.10 MI AGAZINE 3 octosse i942 if ~ Relief Society Rufus K. Hardy - Of the First Council of the Seventy N October of 1894, Robert Louis Stevenson influenced and inspired the chiefs of Samoa to open a thoroughfare across their island, which by them was called the "Road of Gratitude." It was cut through the rank tropical forests, and since its opening it has been kept in repair by the pure-blood tribal chiefs of Samoa. Addressing a letter to these chiefs on the above date he said: "Chiefs! Our road is not built to last a thousand years, yet in a sense it is. When a road is once built, it is a strange thing how it collects traffic, how every year as it goes on, more and more people ate found to walk thereon, and others are raised up to repair and perpetuate it and keep it alive." Later, because of this and his other great achievements, and _ because of the love of thousands for Stevenson, there was inscribed on a bronze memorial in St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh, Scotland, to his memory, this prayer: Give us grace and strength to forbear and to persevere, give us gaiety and a quiet mind, spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies. From tropical isle to the teeming centers of Europe went the beloved | name of Robert Louis Stevenson. This could not be retarded, for the life of Robert Louis Stevenson was motivated by love, compassion, human interest, and a brotherhood that embraced all races and all creeds. ARCH 17, 1842 a society was organized within the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by the Prophet Joseph Smith in which the tender, loving consideration of the women of the Church might find expression and function in the serv-. Ice of helping others. This organization has reclaimed many souls, supplied food for the hungry, stopped the crying mouths of babes, clothed those destitute, and acted as a veritable angel in keeping families together who had concluded divorce was the only Page 67] 672 remedy. In pioneer days when no doctors were available, Relief Society women, as midwives, brought children into the world; they dressed and prepared hundreds for burial, kept vigil at sick beds, permitting worn-out mothers to have a little much-needed rest. The Society has conducted regular meetings for its members in almost every part of the earth, teaching the membership, now Over 115,000, to appreciate and love the gentle teachings of Christ; to understand the Gospel revealed through Joseph Smith the Prophet; to read and study the religious history of the Americas and God's dealings with them as contained in the Book of Mormon; to study the classics, music, and science. To have its members gain a knowledge of world events and trends is also a part of the great program of Relief Society. The Society has thousands of splendid visiting teachers whose responsibility is to visit the homes and to receive contributions made to the Society. The great work of disbursing many charities is done smoothly and without one cent of cost to the Society.. All this is under the management of the women of the Church who receive no financial compensation, so that a dollar given to Relief Society for charity means one dollar distributed to those in need. Wonder of wonders—especially in our day! Thrift, industry, and prudence characterize the actions of this beneficent organization. In New Zealand, the Relief Society has been so busy helping to prepare the soldiers to leave for the front, making socks, mufflers, sweaters, gloves, etc., and also assisting their government in many other RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 ways—as they did so nobly during the last -great catastrophe which came to that land in the form of an | earthquake—that they have become veritably indispensable. [' is necessary that every good influence be put to work at this crucial time, that personal grief and remorse and sorrow be trampled under the busy feet of this army of willing workers. You wives, sisters, and sweethearts of the men who have gone to war, or shall go, keep for them your best thoughts. Store these good thoughts up from week to week and send them in your letters to our beloved soldiers. What a wonderful thing a letter from the local Relief Society would be toa soldier boy; yes, it would be a breath of courage from his own ward and locality. It would cast a tay of sunshine that he would not forget. Your blessed organization has always been filled with angels of mercy; yes, and with stoics as well. Now is the time for personal urge and fixed response to your great privileges, with your trust always in Him who never fails. A short time ago, Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve, and I were met and greeted by thousands of men and women at Apia, Upolo, Samoa. Among this great throng stood four hundred women clothed in beautiful white dresses made from tappa cloth which was beaten from the bark of trees by their own hands. 'They were members of your renowned organization, the Relief Society. A little later, we sat at dinner with Govermor Turnbull of Samoa, and (Continued on page 689) The Hand Nephi L. Morris Venerable to me is the hard hand—crooked, coarse; wherein notwithstanding lies a cunning virtue, indefeasibly royal, as of the sceptre of this planet. N a determined effort to formulate a definition of man, Plato proposed the following: "Man is a two-legged animal, without feathers." Cynical Diogenes promptly plucked a rooster bare and stood it before his class with the introduc-. Tion: "Behold Plato's man!" Close examination disclosed that there was a differentiation which Plato had not seen; and that was in relation to the nails of the two animals. So they added "with broad flat nails." The amended definition stood as satisfactory down through many centuries until about a hundred years ago, when another definition was adopted. It described man as an animal of tools; and that still stands as it points out in substance a distinguishing difference between man and all the other animals which God placed on the earth back on the "border of time." When the erosive forces had produced fertility of soil, and the clouds were made to hang in the sky ready to moisten the earth by atmospheric change, and the life-giving sun had made the air vibrant with life and light, God came down and planted a garden in a favored spot wherein he placed man. His first great command to man was to multiply and replenish the earth and have dominion. Then, because of man's —Carlyle, '"Two Men." disobedience, he was expelled from his lovely garden called Paradise, and as a seeming penalty for his wrongdoing God said, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread." In other words, man was told to get to work. We are not told how much God did for man in the way of furnishing him with tools. Gardeners must have tools, however. One thing is certain, and that is that God gave man the hand. N° other animal on the earth has such a facile and altogether useful organ as the hand. Did you ever stop to consider the endless variety of functions which it performs so naturally? First of all, consider its mobility and flexibility. It is the one organ of the body that can minister to the local needs of the entire body —practically to every spot of it. First of all, in the matter of eating and drinking, then. The important matter of cleanliness, then in dressing a wound, or in the care of the hair, the nails, etc., the hand is indispensable. This flexibility is affected by the diversified variety of joints in the arm at the shoulder, where a ball-and-socket joint is the basis of its mobility. 'Then consider the elbow joint with flexing muscles and marvelous wrist and numerous finger joints, and, last of all, the "broad flat nails" back of the sensiPage 673 674 tive nerve centers at the finger tips, which make it possible for man to use such thing as a fine Cambric needle Or, as in surgery, to treat with instru- ° ments the delicate structure of the human eye and ear. - The hand, with four fingers and a thumb moving in opposition to each other, becomes the incomparable medium of expression which has done more for man's development and progress than any other bodily function. What the mind conceives, the hand expresses or executes. With the hand, man can fashion tools and wield them. Well might it be styled the "royal sceptre of this planet." Without the hand the human mother could not care for her newly born as well as does the eagle or the lioness. No soft fabrics could be woven to bind its little body. No nourishing food, suited to its needs, could be supplied when the first generous fountain became quenched in the mother's breast. Without the hand there could not have been constructed walls and a roof to shelter the mother and babe from the scorching sun of the tropics or the winter's chilling blast in more rigorous climates. We Learn to Do by Doing. OW very little did God do for man in the beginning beside giving him the raw material and the hand with which to work. He evidently intended that man should be a working animal. God made no domicile for man excent it were the cleft in the mountainside or the shades of the fading foliage of the forest. He provided no clothing for him beyond the pelts of wild animals or the fragile fig leaf. He made no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 couch for him to recline upon, except it were the cold earth in which he was destined to find his final rest. But what a wonderful journey has man traveled from these primitive conditions to the modern sanitary home, wholesome and artistic in all its appointments; from sheltering forests or mountain caves to solemn temples and gorgeous palaces; and from the skins of animals (save it were the fine-dressed furs) to the white and purple of the loom, or the broadcloth and woolen fabrics that come from the man-made devices developed into the mills of industry. Devices of man's invention are made possible only by the use of the handmade tools. And machines, after all, are but complicated tools that have made industry so productive as to make ample provision for the many and to produce wealth to the comfort of all. All such had their origin in this marvelous organ which is peculiar to man. 'There are tools as ponderous as locomotives, steam shovels, derricks, and cranes that lift thousands of tons, or instruments so delicate that man may weigh the dot of an "I" on a leadpenciled note, or measure the amount of heat thrown off by a small candle five miles away. This indicates the range of man's genius in supplying his increasing wants. God gave him a hand with which to fashion and use tools and thereby supply human needs and gratify man's desires. Sometimes the hand instinctively does that which the mind doesn't perceive. By work and specialized skills, man has conquered and subdued the earth until it yields in abundance to supply his needs. He has subdued the beasts THE HAND of the field until they are willing servants in bearing his burdens. Finally, he invents the wheel, the combustion chamber, and the automobile, and, thereby, with tools almost displaces the horse and the ox, his age-long servants. But the cow he has cultivated and improved to the highest degree of excellence until she has become the foster-mother of more than half the infants that are born in civilization. The fowls of the poultry industry are made more productive than ever as a superior source of food. With the submarine and the airplane, man has all but conquered the sea and the air. With the radio, time and space are reduced to mere modicums of inconvenience. 'The voice of man can be carried around the earth in so small a measure of time that it seems instantaneous. What is equally miraculous is that sounds of sublime beauty, or the reverse, may be graved by a needlepoint upon prepared substance and be made to repeat those recordings thousands of times at man's will and pleasure. IVILIZATION is said to consist of the changing of matter. The great science of architecture would have been no more than poetic fancy of grace and utility in the human mind, but for the hand which gives tangible expression to these concepts. It is the hand that brings forth in tangible form the sublimity of architecture. It is also expression which develops and unfolds the mind. A child, or an adult, may have its brain crammed full of impressions, tangled and chaotic, but is of little use until through the hand or 675 the tongue, those mental impressions can be comprehensively expressed. 'Without the hand and tools there would have been no characters defined to represent thought, no writing on tablets of clay or stone, nor any alphabet out of which to form words. There would have been no written language; no type; no paper; no books; no press. 'There would have been no fine arts, painting, sculpture, pottery, tapestry. -Without the hand, there would have been no weapons of defense, for physically man is no match for the ferocious beasts and brutes that roam the earth. But with the hand and its cunning skills, man is master of all. ° How pitiably helpless would the human infant be without the hand. It could not even crawl on all fours; it could not walk, but for the aid of the hand; the infant's many falls in learning to stand erect are softened by the protective mobility and the strength of the hand. When it takes its first steps, it is done with the aid of the hand. And when grown to physical efficiency, it uses the hands as an aid in walking. When old and bent with the burden of many years man still walks with increased reliance on the hand, only then he holds a supporting staff in his grasp to make his enfeebled step more sure. And when he finally reaches the end of the long journey, it is by the kind and loving hands of others that he is gently borne to his final rest where he may rest from all his labors. "My right hand is to me as a god," said Virgil. No one can fully consider the marvels of the hand without acknowledging the divine intelligence which made it. Annie Wells ——_— _ President Amy Brown Lyman honor to pay tribute to Annie Wells Cannon, for I regard her as one of the most outstanding women of our Church and our state. She was also my life-long friend. With such parents as Daniel H. Wells, one of the founders of this state and a counselor to Brigham Young, and Emmeline B. Wells, fifth general president of Relief Society, pioneer leader, humanitarian, and author, Sister Cannon had a rich background and a noble heritage; but she herself was specially endowed. Hers were rare gifts of the spirit, rare gifts of the mind, and rare gifts of the heart. Sister Cannon was essentially a a Church woman, genuinely religious, profoundly devout. Always she was true to her faith and true to her convictions. Life was her testimony of the: Restored Gospel of the Master and of the mission of Joseph Smith. This, her abiding testimony, was the foundation and basis of her religious philosophy. It was largely this unfaltering faith and this knowledge which helped her to meet, and to meet calmly, the various vicissitudes of life. She was a student of the scriptures and she was well versed in both Church history and Church procedure. 'This unusual woman had a brilliant and active mind and great mental capacity. All her life she was a | DEEM it a privilege and a great student and a learner. She was quick to learn, and she seemed to be able Page 676 The guiding light of her to retain most of what she read and heard. Her memory was remarkable. She was a veritable bureau of information, and she will be greatly missed by the many who went constantly to her for information. Sister Cannon was tender of heart and sympathetic. To those who were discouraged and low in spirit, she was a real comforter. As the Relief Society president of her stake, she took a personal interest in the welfare work, and she personally spent much time doing active service among the sick and needy. In connection with this work, she established a large maternity cabinet thoroughly fitted out with medical supplies and other useful articles. This was the first cabinet of the kind used in the Relief Society, and furnished a pattern which was adopted in other stakes. This is still housed in the Pioneer Stake hall. She also established in this building the first Relief Society stake library in the Church. How appropriate that her funeral services should be held in this stakehouse, the headquarters of her official work—here where she was such a familiar figure in the pulpit. Sister Cannon was a strong and dependable character and had the courage of her convictions. She was never afraid to speak her mind, and we used to feel that she was usually right. Annie Wells Cannon was a dutiful daughter, a faithful wife, and a devoted mother of twelve children, eleven of whom survive her. The love and admiration of Sister Cannon ANNIE WELLS CANNON for her mother was remarkable. It amounted almost to worship. Often in discussing her mother's work, I have remarked to her that she herself was as able in many respects as was her mother, and that in some respects she excelled her mother, that the chief difference was a difference in opportunity. She was always disturbed by such comments, and would almost resent them. Sister Cannon was a gifted writer of both prose and poetry. For fifteen years she was assistant editor of the Woman's Exponent, which was edited for forty years by her mother, Emmeline B. Wells. Sister Cannon contributed articles often to our local magazines and newspapers, and her page, "Happenings," as it appeared in the Relief Society Magazine has been one of the most popular departments in the periodical. Her last installment appears in the September issue of the Magazine. When the last copy came into the office, we knew that she was tired since "only part of it was in her own handwrit-. Ing. The rest she had dictated to a daughter. To her husband in his. Literary work as editor of the Deseret News and - other Church publications, she was "a real asset. ANNIE CANNON began _ her public service sixty-eight years ago when she was but fourteen years of age, by acting as a visiting teacher in the Relief Society. We can see her in our minds' eye as she went about with a senior worker from house to house carrying a_ basket which held the contributions that in those days were made mostly "in kind." 677 ANNIE WELLS CANNON Former Member of Relief Society General Board She later held various positions in both ward and stake. For sixteen years she was president of the Relief Society of Pioneer Stake, and for twenty-eight years she served on the General Board, where she was an invaluable member. Here she worked on important committees, attended stake and national conventions, and traveled extensively in the stakes and wards of the Church. In our Board, she was not excelled as a committee chairman or a committee member. Sister Cannon was especially interested in the Prize Poem Contest which was established by the General Board in 1923. It was at her suggestion that the Board, in this its centennial year (1942), published a volume containing these prize poems and other selected poems written by Mormon women. This volume contains 328 poems and is titled Our 678 Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse. 'To Sister Cannon was given the responsibility of choosing, compiling, and helping to arrange these poems, in which task she was assisted by a committee of the Board. This work was necessarily trying and taxing, but it gave her supreme joy and satisfaction because of her intense interest in the project. And all this she accomplished in her eighty-second year. This excellent volume contains a number of her own poems and also a lovely portrait of her own dear self. It will ever be a monument to her - industry, her talent, and her outstanding ability. Next to her family, Sister Cannon loved Relief Society, and Relief Society loved her and was greatly entiched by her service. In addition to her Church work, Mrs. Cannon was active in many phases of civic and community welfare. She was a member of the House of Representatives in the 1913 session of the Utah State Legislature, when she gave hearty support to the Dependent Mothers' Pension Bill, and the bill providing for equal guardianship of children, both of which were passed at this session. She was a devotee of women, and a consistent champion of their rights —among them the right to vote, and the right to hold office. She took an active part in the national woman suffrage movement. She was a patriot of the highest order, a student of political science, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 and took an active part in politics. She was a strong believer in party politics. She greatly valued her citizenship and never failed to vote. She was a charter member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and a past president; a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club; a. Member of the Utah Order of Women Legislators; the first president of the Utah War Mothers, and the president of the Service Star Legion for a period of two years. Many years ago she helped to organize, under the direction of Clara Barton, the first Red Cross Chapter in Utah, and during World War I, she was chairman of the canteen service for Utah. Mrs. Cannon was appointed by President Hoover (then Secretary of Commerce) chairman for Utah of the European Relief Council, and under her able direction a. Substantial sum of money was raised for relief work in the Balkan States. She was for many years a director of the Salt Lake City Library Board, and chairman of the Children's Department. ° She was chosen as one of the seven outstanding women of the state by the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs in 1934, the first year the organization made such a selection. In all her public work Mrs. Cannon has given volunteer service. The public is certainly indebted to her, as it is to any individual who contributes so much time and talent to the public welfare without financial remuneration. Editor's note: Annie Wells Cannon died at her home in Salt Lake City, Wednesday, September 2, 1942. The above address was given by President Amy Brown ag at the funeral services of Sister Cannon held in is Pioneer Stake hall, Salt Lake City, Saturday, September 5, 1942. The First Line of Defense— The Home Helen Spencer Williams First Counselor, General Presidency of Y. W. M. I. A. Of December 7, as beds were being made and dinners prepared, as Sunday "bests" were being donned for church, over the radio came the never-to-be-forgotten news of war. The first impact of that terrifying message produced hysterical concern for the present, yet dulled for the moment the realization of what families would be facing in the months and years to come. Little did mothers and fathers sense how changed their households would become, what new personalities their children would assume, or what they or their carefree sons and daughters would be called upon to meet. The news was announced, and in those first hours of shock only the fact that our country had been attacked seemed important. Those first horrible hours and days have passed, and as the weeks have gone into months, we have learned what war means— good-byes have been said and are being said to our sons, to our husbands, and to our sweethearts. Civilians have been transplanted into a military way of life. Anxious hours have been spent watching for the mailman. Hearts have stood still as wires have been received containing sad or perhaps hopeful news. " The war is in every home, town, and state. During these last ten months we have learned somehow to live in a war-torn era. Parents know now that expressed bitterness and resentment ()* that quiet Sunday morning against what is, cannot and will not keep families together, and that families must somehow, in spite of present conditions, live in a state of normalcy. With the changes which have been brought about in family life, mothers have been called upon to assume a more important role than ever before. With serenity of spirit, control of emotions, stoical bearing, and a spiritual outlook, a new appreciation of family and home life will grow. Girls, boys, young women, and young men, and even mature married sons and daughters are needing guidance and understanding as they have never needed it before in the history of this generation, and parents must be constantly present and ready to provide these. The war of a quarter of a century ago brought its problems and its heartbreaks, its aftermath of reconstruction that cannot be forgotten. From it we have learned one blessed lesson—that life does go on, that war does end and peace come. Those who met that other conflict with firmness of spirit, with faith in God, with firm adherence to ideals, were able to take up the threads of life and to weave again a pattern of life and happiness. E are now in the very midst of the turmoil of this present conflict. Only if mothers can and will wisely meet these new situations, and if they will help their sons and daughters to meet the new situaPage 679 680 tions in which they find themselves, can there ever be any hope of solution to our present vital problems. Is it not imperative that mothers make homemaking their paramount business? In so many ways mother is needed in the home, especially now, to guard against too many war radio programs being turned on; to see that little ones play with toys other than guns, airplanes, tanks and bayonets; to safeguard children against phone calls from strangers; to give words of comfort and advice at just the right moment; in short, to keep home life in normal balance. No greater accomplishment could be credited to a mother and father than to keep a family reacting normally under the stress of these difficult times. 'To do this takes intelligence, time, patience, and unbounded faith. It means sticking to and on the job" constantly. It is doing one's duty to. Church and community, for no country, church, or community is any better or more sound than are its homes and families. } The girl of thirteen, fourteen, and up through those early adolescent years, finds that present-day situations involve her in a complexity of emotions quite unheard of before. She feels grownup and important. A well-traveled man visiting in a midwestern city made the statement that he was aghast at the number of very young girls he saw on the streets all hours of the day and night unaccompanied by an adult. "Why do their mothers permit it?" he asked. It was in this same city that thousands of Uncle Sam's boys were stationed for training and recruiting, making it particularly important that the girls not roam the streets, for their. Own - streets. ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 sake, and also for the sake of the boys. Surely a situation of this kind can be remedied if mothers will be companions to their daughters, if they will know where their girls are and what they are doing every moment of the twenty-four hours. In towns and cities, in view of the war situation, civic-minded persons should take it upon themselves to see that the curfew law is rigidly enforced for the protection of both boys and girls. Newspapers might well print editorials to influence parents to keep their children home, urging them to make home the kind of place where children want to be. Influential speakers might profitably talk on the subject in churches, cantonments, and schools. It is very important for mothers to be at home when their adolescent girls arrive from school, to make home life so inviting, and themselves so companionable and pleasant that girls will not want to roam the True there is an excitement in the air which stimulates these children who are just budding into womanhood. It makes them want to dress _ up and feel they are a part of this great world drama that is being played. But girls should not be allowed to roam the streets alone no matter how large or small the community in which they live. If only time could swing backward and retrieve some of the old customs prevalent in grandmother's day—that children should not be seen without their elders nor be allowed to go to social functions without chaperons— 'a bit old-fashioned perhaps, but certainly a safeguard. _ There is the unpopular girl of late THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE adolescent period who looks upon this present situation as her chance for attention from the opposite sex. She may have always been a square peg in a round hole, but now boys by the hundreds are thronging the community in which she lives—lonely boys away from home and their loved ones, boys who welcome the companionship and company of a girl, and yet who are not always too particular as to how they meet her. This is pethaps the reason why we see so many older girls going about unattended, with the light of invitation in their eyes and a welcoming smile for companionship on their lips. Do these girls need counsel and mothering more than they have ever needed it before? Someone must take the time and be sufficiently interested in them to inform them that these soldier boys away from home, family, and friends do not as-a rule look upon a "pick-up" date with any degree of seriousness. Many have left sweethearts back in their own home towns of whom they are truly fond. But in the loneliness of hours with nothing to do and no place to go they seek these girls who have let the influence of seeing so many boys around intoxicate them to the point of lack of judgment. Could these girls be made to understand that it is far better for them to be in their own homes, to occupy themselves with wholesome activities, even though less exciting, they would be more secure and would be able to look toward years to come without any feeling of regret. Mothers, now more than ever, need to give companionship to this type of girl and with the real genius of mothering wrap a cloak of protection about her. 681 There are the girls left in small towns, particularly in rural districts, where every fellow of companionable age has been called away, where truly there is a dearth of young manhood. These girls too often feel the call of the city, of work away from home. Unless parents know where a young girl is going and the situation she will meet there, they should keep her home at all costs. A young woman from a small city told of her second year in nurses' training at a hospital where for the past six months there had not been one available male escort for any one of the nurses. "It is all right," she said, "to talk about our having recreation, swimming parties, sewing bees, reading groups, but at our age we want and long for the companionship of young men who like to do the same things we like to do." It is very easy for parents who have lived their lives, who have had their fun to say with very superior intelligence, "Well, they can just get along all right until this is all over." But this is a serious situation which requires consideration and good judgment if one would meet it well. This particular nurse planned to go to a larger city for her vacation. In her own words, she said, "I'm going to dances, and I'm going to have dates. I'm old enough to watch my step, but also I'm old enough for the companionship of someone besides my nurse associates." It is unfair to place all the blame on the strange young men who have been placed in stranger towns if girls make themselves available to them without introductions. Stand on the corner some Saturday night in any busy city where soldiers throng the 682 streets. 'There is often more invitation on the part of the girls than there is on the part of the boys. Something fine should be instilled into every girl's heart and mind that will prevent her from speaking to or taking up with a boy of whom she knows nothing. IN more than one home during this wartime, mothers are being confronted with the question from college-age girls, "Why should I go back to school? Why should I complete my education? I have a chance to— take a job and earn more money than father is earning. Why shouldn't I doit? What good does education do any way? There is no chance for a future, for marriage, or a home. Why shouldn't I take life as I find it?" What reasoning and what good judgment parents must extend to their girls who make these queries! An education is something that can never be taken from a person, Jet war and depressions happen, or come what may, it is priceless. Several months of big salary may mean new clothes and an addition of material things which overnight may be lost, but education and the influence of school environment will endure forever. Parents should urge their daughters to go on with their schooling if possible, and to continue a normal pattern of life insofar as they are able in spite of the lack of normalcy which is everywhere surrounding them. In the very study of and concentration upon subjects, which will always be vital, will come a sense of security and an anchoring to fundamental truths. Also into this present-day picture comes the character of the hurriedRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 up wedding, the bride who in all the ecstasy of a few rushed days of furlough, marries and says good-by to her sweetheart husband. Perhaps they had been planning for a long time to be married at some future date, but when the time for parting came, they decided it was foolish not to take their marriage vows. Goodbyes were said, and the gir] who has not had time enough to become oriented to married life, finds herself at the home of her parents feeling much as she did before the marriage ceremony. Still loving gaiety, excitement, fun, she now realizes that all of the restrictions of marriage are placed upon her—she must not be seen escorted by any other young man, she must turn her thoughts away from dates and parties which require male partners, and she must adjust herself to a different type of entertainment. Again the mother of the family must give her a sense of security, must awaken in her the sense of the responsibility of married life, must encourage her to write the kind of letters which will help her husband to withstand temptation, and which will encourage him to keep trust in his Heavenly Father. The hours must be filled with necessary things. So many of these little war brides find that they are to become mothers. None of the joy or anticipation of that event to come should be minimized. A new baby in a home always brings a sweet spirit of unity and love if it is welcomed. One of the most serious problems which confronts this modern generation comes to the young married couple who have two or three children. The sudden allure of remunerative jobs presents itself, and THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE together the couple begin to talk of the possibilities of bringing someone into the home to tend the children so that both young father and mother may go to work. They plan to save to buy the home they have wanted ever since they were married. 'They reason that with the golden wages being paid in defense plants, in munition factories, they will have more money than they could possibily use, more than they ever dreamed of having. 'They could easily save a large percentage of it for the rosy future that will some day come. These young married folk are perhaps in their middle thirties. They do not need anyone to balk their plans, or to sternly tell them they are wrong, for perhaps they are not, there being some situations in which it would be wise for both mother and father to avail themselves of what they call the golden opportunity. But they do need to have pointed out to them that the most important job they have to do is to see their little ones properly cared for, to keep home and family together. Much of this money which they are intending to earn will be taken up in taxes. Proper help is expensive and difficult to secure, and seldom is hired help as frugal as the mother of the family. When all the answers are given, will there be so very much saved for that future, dreamed-of home? Even if a nest egg is laid aside, is it worth the price paid? The cost might be the possible neglect of babies and their training in their preschool and earlyschool years when they so sorely need their own parents to direct them. Every young wife should ask herself: "By working, will I be un- 683 dermining my husband's faith in himself and in his ability to take care of his family?" - We may even go into the older age bracket and look at the daughter who has been married twenty or twenty-five years, whose husband on that December 7, as he listened to the news, felt a sudden and urgent patriotic wave come over him. How many hundreds of families have seen father, husband, enlist. The wife who for a quarter of a century has leaned on and counted on her husband to help her rear her family, finds she is suddenly left to meet the problem of rearing adolescent boys and girls alone, of perhaps supplementing the financial income. She becomes bewildered, depressed and ofttimes even neurotic with her new responsibilities. Family life suffers because mother is not equal to the new order of things.: These are times when every ounce of spirituality and intelligence must be brought into the picture. These are times when a mother's role becomes more important than it has ever been before, whether mother be young, middle-aged, or in the grandmother class. A new spirit of understanding, of recognition of problems as they are, and of working out a solution to every one of them, is needed. If the need of the hour could be summed up in one sentence, it would be this: "As never before, stay close to your children; do not neglect them; give them understanding and love. Ifa mother is capable of doing only one job and doing it well, then it should be the job of mothering." Give Thanks For What? Martha Robeson Wright would not know that a house lay beneath the willows and branches that formed a roof for the cave-like place known as a dugout. It was cut deep into the side of the hill, with its door facing east, and any traveler on the country road would pass it without a glance. It was safer that way, of course, though the occupants of the dugout would have enjoyed seeing other white faces oftener. But it was their hope that the Indians' keen eyes would not detect their hide-out and drop in on them for food; there was no food to spare. Many of the Indians lived more comfortably than most of the settlers in this year of 1860, but the white man's food seemed to please the red man's palate.: The November cold had frozen the winter rains into the ground. The roughhewn walls inside the hovel shone, glistening with frost. No firearms hung above the fireplace as in most pioneer huts. There was no fireplace; just rocks piled in a rectangle high enough to support the thick, green bough from which hung one black iron pot. The smoke found its way through a small hole in the interlaced branches and out through the doorway that was hung with an old buffalo hide. Een the deep-rutted road, one David Johnstone; Mary, his wife,. And their twelve-year-old daughter, Clarissa, sat huddled around the fire. The man was gaunt and hollow-eyed, his body taut against the cold as if defying it to conquer him. His grey eyes expressed a combination of bePage 684 wilderment and determination. His mouse-colored hair was lifeless and dull. The woman was still pretty, and her eyes, blue as the wild asters, fringed with thick, dark lashes, watched her husband with compassion and pride. She might have been buxom and graceful, but now her figure was emaciated and slightly stooped, wrapped in its thick, woolen shawl. Mary dished out the steaming mush into thick bowls. The girl, Rissy, reached from the piece of upended short log where she sat and took a bowl in her cupped hands. "Hum...! Itmakesa good handwarmer, Mamma." Her mother smiled. "Get some of it inside of you." She handed a bowl to her husband. "It makes a good stomach-warmer, too." Rissy held her face over the steam that arose from the mush, and it lost a little of its pinched look. Her brown hair, braided in two pigtails, hung out on each side of the bowl as she leaned over it. Her undernourished body could not be seen for the long, full woolen skirt that enveloped her. Her slender feet and ankles were wrapped in strips of sacking. Her worn, unlaced shoes lay near the fire. She had been holding her feet as close to the flames as she could get them. "This morning I wanted to starve before I'd eat another bite of this corn-meal mush," Rissy said solemnly.. ' Her father turned his hollow eyes on her face and looked at it intent- GIVE THANKS FOR WHAT? Ly. Then he searched the face of his wife. He found no reproach. "We must have a change of diet," he said slowly. "Tomorrow is Thanksgiving." Mary opened her mouth, but could not say a word. She had forgotten. Rissy jerked her face quickly from above the steaming bowl. "Thanksgiving, Papa? Why, last year in Boston we. Her father nodded. "Yes, Rissy. This,' his hands motioned toward the little room, "is like something in a dream, isn't it? There are times when I wish I had never heard of Utah." "David." Mrs. Johnstone stood close and placed her gnarled and cracked hands on his shoulder. "David, do you think we did wrong to come here? To give up everything? To live like this?" They seemed to have forgotten Rissy, who watched them as she ate her porridge without waiting for the molasses to sweeten it. Her parents looked deep into each other's eyes. Her father slowly shook his head. "No. It wasn't wrong. But to watch you suffer, to see Rissy cold and puny, to -work so hard, our hands bleeding, our feet full of sores, our backs breaking—I... I can't understand!" "It may be to test us," Mary said. "Does it seem right that God should demand so much?" Gently Mary took his thin face in her rough hands. "Don't lose faith. We're not complaining. You are so dear to me. It is hard for us to do unaccustomed labor and live under such hard circumstances, but 685 we'll manage." "If we can just last —T the winter." He turned his head first to the right and then to the left to print a kiss on each of her calloused palms, his sensitive, scholar's face lighted by an inner glow. "You are my heart," he said softly. Mary's eyes filled with tears. 'Then she shook her 'head with a quick gesture as if to fling them away, and looked at her daughter. "Here, Rissy, Pll put some molasses on your mush. Do you want some, too, David?" "Mine's all gone." Rissy scraped the spoon noisily around the sides of the bowl. - "I'm warmer already. I wish we'd worked a few days for Brother Randsome. We could've had some potatoes, too, for a change." Her father sighed. "We had strength for just so much, Rissy. I hope what we have lasts until spring. It will if we are careful. I shall attempt to find something to do iv exchange for food that will relieve the monotony for Thanksgiving Day." "Please do not try to walk too far. You aren't strong enough," Mary Johnstone said, and added brightly, "Rissy and I shall go to bed and knit. We must finish those stockings before her feet freeze." David wrapped himself in a long, heavy coat with a cape around the shoulders. He waited until his wife and child had climbed into the bed that was made of four young tree trunks, bark still on them, set into the ground, with balsam boughs for springs and mattress above the split-log sides. He tucked them in 686 with the worn and patched quilts and blankets.. "It won't be too long. Should Indians come, don't let fear show in your faces." "I hope they won't come." Rissy lifted her face for a kiss. "They can't be as hungry as I am all the time." Mary and Clarissa waited until the buffalo-hide door dropped back into place before they began their knitting. Busy people do not have much time to talk at their work, and Rissy and her mother made their needles fly as fast as their cold fingers could manage. It seemed a short time, though most of the afternoon had gone, when Mr. Johnstone came through the door with a dark-green, rough and warty object in his arms. "Papa!":. "Squash!" he announced, holding it out in both hands. _ "What did you do for it?" asked his wife. "I walked over to Mrs. Berner's. She's been querulous of late, her niece complains. Wants the Bible read to her in German; her niece cannot read German. Mrs. Berner is half blind. So I read for three hours and got this lovely squash." "Isn't it beautiful? Could we have it tonight, Mamma?" Mrs. Johnstone looked at the vegetable, mentally caluculating how much it would cook down. "If we have some tonight, there will not be much for a feast tomorrow. If we wait, it'll seem more like Thanksgiving." Rissy tried not to show. Her disappointment. "How do you cook it, Mamma?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 "Cut it open, scrape out the seeds, cut it into pieces, peel it! It won't take long to cook. Molasses will sweeten it." "Ugh! Molasses makes it too. Much like corn meal." HE next morning, after she had dressed, Rissy watched her 'mother prepare the squash.. She had been so restless during the night that her mother had to scold her for turning and tossing. With the three of them in the crude bed, it might tumble down if one turned too much. They had to sleep together to keep warm. "Here's some hot water to drink." Mary Johnstone said. "We can eat this cold corn meal sliced. Then there'll be room for this lovely squash in the kettle. If we don't move around too much, perhaps we won't get very hungry before the squash is done." "Tell about the first Thanksgiving, Papa," Rissy demanded as she took her slice of cold mush and shuddered a little at its slick coldness. As they chewed down the hardened, cold mush and sipped the hot water, David Johnstone told about the Pilgrims. "A great many of them died the first winter before the friendly Indians showed them how to use corn. English people had never heard of human beings eating corn." "Good thing we know." Rissy gave a sigh as she swallowed. "We'd all be dead." "Something to be thankful for," Mary Johnstone began, and stopped as she saw her husband's eyes on the buffalo-hide door. It was sway- GIVE THANKS FOR WHAT? Ing a little. Someone was outside listening to them. Or was it an animal? Rissy put her hand to her mouth to scream, but her father shook his head sternly. She stuffed her fist against her lips. David Johnstone placed his cup of water and the small remaining piece of mush on a box that stood by the fire. "Hello!" he called, and wet his nervous lips. "Come in." | There was absolute silence for a second. Then the hide moved and a tall Indian stepped into the room. His face was begrimed from the smoke of many fires inside of tepees. He solemnly raised his hand, then walked over to sit on the bed. He looked about him, then with a grunt beckoned toward a second Indian who now stood in the doorway. The second arrival moved with great dignity and sat down beside his companion. David Johnstone arose and cut more mush and handed it to the Indians, passing Rissy as he did so to whisper from the corner of his mouth, "Don't look so frightened." The two dirty brown men gravely accepted the offering of food and bit into it eagerly. A look of surprise that was comical spread over their faces. They spat out the mush, making faces of disgust. It was without salt and clammy. They mo- _tioned to David Johnstone, and held out the mush. David Johnstone nodded. "Yes. It is all we have. Weare very poor." The second Indian motioned toward the kettle where the squash was bubbling and the steam was rising. "Him food?" "Squash! Today is Thanksgiving." 687 "They can't understand you, dear," Mary said, "I hope they hurty and go." "No go." The first Indian grinned as he watched the embarrassed face of the white woman. "Hungry." "Tt will soon be cooked." Mary Johnstone assured him hurriedly, "and we will gladly share it." The two savages nodded, then began to bounce on the bed. Rissy forgot her terror of the Indians in terror that the bed would break. Neither her father nor her mother were strong enough to chop more trees now for a new bed, and the ax was not sharp. She stared in horror at the four posts that were beginning to sway with the movement of the Indians. The Indians stopped bouncing when they saw Rissy's face. The first Indian pointed a dirty finger at Rissy and demanded: "Papoose sick?" Rissy sat up in indignation. "I'm not either sick. I'm not sick. I'm hungry. I'm always hungry. None of us get enough to eat. Then you come in and take what we have. You don't even like it, but we have to eat it. I'm not sick." "Clarissa!" Mary Johnstone spoke severely. She never called Rissy by her full name uniless she were angry. Rissy's face colored, and her eyes dropped in shame. "I... I'm sorry." The Indians looked at each other, shrugged their shoulders and grinned. "Wynno papoose. Heap wynno papoose," they said together and then pointed to the pot. "You no eat?" asked the first Indian. "When it is done." The second Indian arose and 688 prowled around the small room. Even in the coldness of the place the white people could smell the strong odor of the Indians' bodies. He stood in front of David Johnstone. "You no gun? No shoot?" David Johnstone shook his head. "I have no gun. I traded it for food. I do not like to kill." The first red man joined the second, and they stood close beside the white man. Mary, feeling something was amiss, went to stand beside her husband. "Merricats?" "Merricats?" David repeated, "Is that an Indian word?" They shook their heads. Ricats? Said. "Do you mean are we Americans or Mormons?" Both Indians nodded vigorously. "We are Americans and Mormons," said David Johnstone. Before he could say more, the Indians began to grunt and talk in their own language. Mary stepped toward them to explain further, but they pushed her away. Rissy was too terrified to move. "You no lie? You Mormon?" the first Indian said, addressing Mr. Johnstone. Mr. Johnstone fearlessly assured him that they were Mormons. Then to his surprise, the second Indian grinned. "We friend," he said. Badly shaken, David managed a smile and a handshake of friendship. "We eat now." The Indians settled themselves again on the bed 'and waited for the white woman to serve them. Mrs. Johnstone, somewhat recovered from her fear "MerMormons?" the first one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 and surprise, when she saw the visitors meant no harm, ladled out the contents of the kettle with a large -wooden spoon and poured molasses on top of each serving. Her bowl contained less than the others. She ~ offered spoons to the Indians, but they preferred picking up the hot squash with their fingers. They ate like gluttons, and when they had finished, they held out their bowls for more. Rissy swallowed her food in gulps and wished someone would strike the Indians dead—or something. David and Mary kept their eyes on their food as they ate. The noisy eating of their visitors almost made them ill. "More!" Mary showed them the empty kettle. Without further word, they stood and handed their empty bowls to Mary. Then they turned and went out the door. The buffalo robe flapped behind them. David sat on his stool. His knees were shaking. Mary's face registered disgust. Ruissy began to cry. "To... To spoil our nice Thanksgiving. 'The mean things! We even forgot to. Give thanks." "And we had thanks to give. They: might have harmed us," said her mother. "Why did you admit you had no gun, David? They could have killed us." David smiled wanlv, "They knew. They did not see any firearms. They could have overpowered us, had I had a gun." "They got their old stomachs full." Rissy felt of her own stomach. Mary Johnstone put the bowls into a pan, rinsed out the black pot, and after filling it with clean water, put it over the fire to heat. "They GIVE THANKS FOR WHAT? Did look quite healthy, didn't they?" she said. "We don't even have enough to eat on Thanksgiving Day. I wish we were back in Boston." "Rissy." Her father and mother both spoke together. She threw herself in her mother's arms. To save fuel, they went to bed. Rissy and her mother knit on the socks while David told stories of the settlers who went to new lands for religious freedom. Rissy almost forgot her desire for more food. Then, without warning, the two Indians came again into the dugout. They stalked into the room, carrying the stiff carcass of a young deer. Hurriedly, the white people crawled out of bed and put on their shoes. The small animal filled one side of the room. Without a word the Indians tied its hind legs with a rawhide thong; then stood on the up-ended log stump that had been Rissy's seat at dinner and passed the thong over the rafters. 'The deer swayed gently and starkly. David Johnstone's face seemed to grow less colorless, his eyes began to shine. Mary clasped her hands in front of 689 her and her lips trembled. Rissy's mouth was wide open in amazement, and her thin hands were shaking. The first Indian held out his hand. "You friend. You no kill Indians. White man need meat. Makum strong." The second Indian gesticulated, pointing first at the deer and then at the girl. "No gun. No kill venison like Indian can. Venison good for sick papoose. Wynno papoose— no let sick. White man no fat. Squaw no fat. Give all food to Indian. Now Indian give food." 'They grinned and nodded their heads vigorously. 'Then they were gone. "Wait." David ran through the door to thank them, but they had disappeared into the forest. He joined his family who stood watching the dangling deer. "Heavenly Father," he said softly, "we thank Thee for this day." "Amen," said Mary, and Rissy said it, too, but her mind was on the deer. "Mamma. How long will it take to cook it?" she asked. Cn _ RELIEF SOCIETY (Concluded from page 672) his gracious wife, in the very home built by Stevenson, but now used as the Governor's mansion. Stevenson's grave was a little way up on the top of a hill, looking down on the home he loved. We talked of Stevenson, and among the many beautiful things which 1 remembered he had said was this: "To travel hopefully is better than to arrive." So, to you members of this great organization I say: hopefully and cheerfully go on in your selfsacrificing duties. It is far better than to arrive. In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER X INTERESTING PEOPLE travels as an officer in the Relief Society, I have met many interesting and important people, nonmembers of our Church, some of whom I shall introduce to my readers. I have also visited a number of very interesting homes. I would like [T° connection with my work and to say at the outset that I have often. Observed that no matter how important and famous people are, they are only men and women after all; that human nature is much the same wherever found; and that people who are really great are often more humble, charitable, understanding, and more free from prejudice than many others. Madame Mountford Madame Mountford (Lydia von Finkelstein. Mountford), famous world traveler and lecturer on the Holy Land—the customs, religions, and historical relations of the people, and on Oriental life in general—was one of the greatest living exponents of the Bible. She made several visits to Utah and gave a series of lectures in Oriental costume in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. Through Professor Alice L. Reynolds, a mutual friend, I had the opportunity of meeting Madame Mountford personally on a number of occasions and of learning quite intimately of her interesting life and great work. She was a large, powerful, handsome woman, and as she appeared before her audiences in OriPage 690 ental costume, she was very effective. She was an eloquent and dramatic speaker, with a voice that was easily heard throughout the 'Tabemacle. She had lectured in most of the Christian countries of the world, and in thought she took us to these countries. } She attended the Relief Society April Conference in 1899 and gave an interesting and eloquent address. She promised to represent the Mormons truthfully wherever she went, and this she did ever after. Charlotte Perkins Gillman Charlotte Perkins Gillman, niece of Henry Ward Beecher, famous sociologist, brilliant lecturer and author, appeared on the public platform in Utah a number of times, and never failed to visit her Relief Society friends in Salt Lake City. On her visit in 1912, the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association gave a large reception for her in the Relief Society board room. In 1919, she spent one whole day with us in the office discussing social and economic problems as well as Mormon beliefs and practices, and as she chatted she sat knitting on a lovely blue shawl. It seemed remarkable to me that such a busy woman, such an intellectual expert, could be so domestic as to knit. In 1917, at the National Conference of Social Work in Pittsburgh, Mrs. Gillman, who was one of IN RETROSPECT 691 ry FOUR PRESIDENTS OF NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN Left to right: Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, 1911-1916; Mrs. Philip N. Moore, 1916-1925; Dr. Valeria H. Parker, 1925-1929; Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, 1931-1935 the principal speakers, took me as her special guest to a dinner given in her honor by the officials of the Conference. May Wright Sewall May Wright Sewall of Indiana, one of the most brilliant and scholarly women of her day, great friend and champion of Mormon women, first visited Utah in July 1901. At that time, as the president of the International Council of women, she was for four days the guest of the General Boards of Relief Society and Y. W. M.1. A. She not only made interesting addresses before the women's groups of our city, but she spoke at the Sunday services in the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle on the subject of "Internationalism." I was greatly thrilled to meet Mrs. Sewall at a large reception given in her honor by Emily S. Richards, our own suffrage leader and Relief Society General Board member, at her beautiful home. In 1913, Mrs. Sewall again visited Utah as guest of the Mormon women. During the several days she was here, she made the Relief Society office her headquarters. Here she received mail, wrote letters, received callers, and planned the remainder of her lecture tour. As general secretary, I was delegated to be at her service, to keep track of her appointments, go on errands, and help her in any way that she desired. Her abounding energy, her ability to make short-cuts in her work, to arrive at quick decisions, and her gifts as a conversationalist, a public speaker and writer were remarkable. She had several conferences with President Joseph F. Smith and thanked him for his support of the Church women in connection with their - membership in the Council and appealed to him for a continuation of this support and encouragement. She told President Smith that the work of the Mormon women had done much to create the good will now existing toward the Mormon people as a whole. Lady Aberdeen I first met Lady Aberdeen of Great Britain, president of the International Council of Women for a period of thirty-six years, at the Congress of 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 Jane Addams Mary E. Richmond Women held at the San Francisco Fair in 1915. Accompanied by Lord Aberdeen, she was touring the country giving lectures to raise funds for her philanthropic work in Ireland. I was authorized by the General Boards of Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. To extend an invitation to the Aberdeens to include Salt Lake City in their tour and to give a series of lectures in Utah. I felt rather shy and uncomfortable about performing this task since I had never before had any contact with English nobility or titled foreigners from any country. Lady Aberdeen, always democratic and approachable, soon put me at ease, however, and she very readily accepted the invitation. Lord and Lady Aberdeen were royally entertained in Salt Lake City with luncheons and banquets; and her lecture at the Salt Lake Theatre was well attended and _ successful. Susa Young Gates was general chairman of arrangements for this visit. Sister Jeannette A. Hyde and I were asked by the general committee to serve as escorts to these distinguished visitors on their trips to Ogden, Logan, and Provo. The Logan trip was assigned to me. I found these Dr. Anna G. Spencer Grace Abbott titled people not only appreciative but very interesting traveling companions. I was surprised to see among their luggage a rather large, black, rectangular wooden box, and wondered why it had been brought along. The | mystery was solved when at about 4:00 p. M. Lord Aberdeen put it on the seat opposite them, opened it up and set about to prepare "tea." The box contained an alcohol stove, a thermos bottle with hot water, a tea pot, cups and saucers, trays, a small bed-table, bread and butter, and a variety of small cakes. Without any help whatever from Lady Aberdeen, he prepared and served "tea," which they greatly relished, as ably as any woman. This was a strange procedure to me then, going to all this trouble and eating so near to the dinner hour, but while living in Europe later I found that afternoon "tea" is a real institution observed even at theatre matinees and in all places of business. I met Lady Aberdeen later at meetings of the International Council in Washington, D. C. In 1925, YugoSlavia in 1936, and in Scotland in 1938, and on all of these occasions IN RETROSPECT she spoke of her pleasant visit to Utah, of her good friends here, and of those interesting side trips to Logan, Ogden, and Provo. Lady Aberdeen, a countess in her own right, was a great humanitarian and philanthropist, an outstanding organizer, an eloquent speaker, and an able writer. She was, I think, better known to the women of the world than any other woman in public life. She always maintained that it is one of the duties of women to help to maintain the peace of the world. Baroness Boel It was a real pleasure to me to meet and become acquainted with Baroness Boel of Belgium who succeeded Lady Aberdeen in 1936 as president of the International Council. After her election at the Yugo-Slavia meeting, she received the delegates from each country separately. 'There were three of us from the United States. She talked to us at length in good English and pleaded for the continuation of the interest and support of the women of the United States. Her knowledge of the work of the women throughout the world was amazing. She is an humanitarian and an experienced public worker. She is large in stature and large of heart. Her knowledge of the three official languages of the Council—French, English, and German—is a great asset. Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer When I met Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer of New York in 1921, she told me of her first acquaintance with Mormon women thirty-three years before at the organization meeting of the Council in Washington, D. C. 693 May Wright Sewall Madame Lydia von F. Mountford in 1888, and how all down through the years she had met with pleasure each new delegate from Utah. She never failed to show me courtesies which I greatly appreciated. For a number of years before her passing in 1931 at age eighty, she was the only one left who had attended that early meeting when, as a promising young woman of thirty-seven years, she had appeared on the program. Mrs.. Spencer was the last link in the organization which connected the early women leaders with those of today. She was one of the rarest spirits and one of the most gifted women of her time. She was slight in figure, but straight as an arrow; delicate physically, but possessed of a powerful intellect and remarkable mental clarity. At the close of a discussion she was able quickly to eliminate all irrelevant matter and to bring together in logical arrangement that which was of value. As a public worker she was original, resourceful, constructive, and wise. She was greatly beloved personally for these qualities and also for her gentleness, modesty, frankness, honesty, and the sweetness of her nature. Mrs. Spencer was known as a suf- 694 fragist, a philanthropist, preacher (ordained ), teacher, and writer. She had been a special lecturer in several great universities and on the day before her last illness, she gave a lecture in her course on "The Family" before 178 students at Columbia University—and this in her eightieth year. As an author, her best known books are The Care of Dependent, Neglected and Wayward Children, and The Family and Its Members. Four Presidents of National Council The four presidents of the National Council of Women, whom I as a delegate and officer came to know well, were Dr: Kate Waller Barrett, of Alexandria, Virginia (1911-1916), Mrs. Philip N. Moore (Eva Perry), of St. Louis, Missouri (1916-1925), Dr. Valeria H. Parker, of New York City (1925-1929), and Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, of New York City (1931-1935), all remarkable women —women large of soul, free from prejudices, ardent crusaders for right, with a keen sense of justice. They were outstanding as executives and presiding officers. All four have visited Utah on a number of occasions when the Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. Have had the honor of entertaining them. All of them have been friends to Mormon women and, whenever occasion called for it, have warmly defended them. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett Dr. Kate Waller Barrett was a philanthropist, sociologist, physician, and a fluent and attractive public speaker. She was a highly intellectual woman of rare culture, beauty, and grace, with a magnetic personality RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-OCTOBER 1942 and bottomless sympathy. Until the time of her death, she was president and general superintendent of the national Florence Crittenton Mission which provides home care for unfortunate unmarried mothers. Mrs. Barrett was a typical Southern lady, a kinswoman of General Robert E.. Lee, and presided over a typically hospitable Southern home, in which I had the opportunity of being her guest. Mrs. Philip N. Moore Mrs. Philip N. Moore was one of my closest and choicest friends in the National Council. _She served very efficiently as president for nine years. Her husband, a noted civil engineer, was an acquaintance and friend of my husband, and when I first met Mrs. Moore at a board meeting held in her own home in St. Louis in 1918, she immediately took me under her wing and was ever after _a kind, devoted and motherly friend. She made me feel that I was helpful - to her in the business affairs of the Council, and always welcomed me heartily as a delegate to the meetings. Some of the choicest letters I have ever received were from Eva Perry Moore. When the nominating committee asked me to run for recording secretary in 1925, I rather hesitated, feeling that there might be enough prejudice against a Mormon woman holding such an important office as to precipitate unpleasantness and possible unfavorable publicity. Mrs. Moore called me to her hotel room the evening before the election to discuss the matter, and when I told her why I hesitated, she said: "Just leave that to me," which I did. I IN RETROSPECT was unanimously elected to the office next day. Mrs. Moore came to the Council aS a representative of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the largest member organization. When the women of that organization were given the privilege of nominating the new president for. The Council in 1916 they chose Mrs. Moore, for a number of years president of their own organization, whom they considered their most outstanding member. She was a fine public speaker and one of the ablest executives and presiding officers in the country. She conducted the regular business affairs of an organization with efficiency and dispatch, and never appeared to better advantage publicly than when conducting great national meetings where good judgment, parliamentary skill, and poise are essential. She was a woman of whom all Americans could be proud. A prominent officer of the International Council said of her: "Mrs. Moore is one of the most intelligent. And attractive American women I have ever met. She has all of the qualities which make American women so much admired, and none of the purported failings which are sometimes credited to them." Dr. Valeria H. Parker Dr. Valeria H. Parker, physician, educator, lecturer, and writer, is well known throughout the United States for the outstanding work she has done in the interest of social hygiene. She is a member of the staff, a consultant, and the director of field extension for the American Social Hygiene Association. " Large of stature, powerful of intellect, and with a rare 695 gift of eloquence, she is a forceful and convincing public speaker and is an ardent crusader for health and morals. She stands squarely for equal moral standards. She organized and presided with poise and dignity over the fourteenth biennal meeting of the Council held in New York in 1927. This outstanding event stamped her as a real executive. | considered it a great privilege to work with her at that time as recording secretary of the Council. Doctor Parker has been a real friend and admirer of the Mormon people. Because of her great interest in young people, she has especially appreciated the work of the M. LA. I have heard her say repeatedly that she regarded the recreation program of our Mutual Improvement Association the best in the whole United States. Miss Lena Madesin Phillips Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, a lawyer by profession, was president of the National Council of Women when it sponsored the International Congress of Women held at the "Century of Progress" Fair in Chicago in the summer of 1933, and which was attended by delegates from thirty-one nations. This Congress was conceded to be the greatest and most brilliant gathering of women ever held in this country. To finance it required the large fund of $100,000 which was raised under the leadership of Miss Phillips; and when the convention was over, there was a balance in black. As a vice-president, I was familiar with all the plans and arrangements for the Congress and my admiration for Miss Phillips and her ability is unbounded. She is a 696 student of current problems, both national and international, and is known for her vision, brilliance, courage, and, above all else, for her common sense. To see her in action as a presiding officer in either a small executive meeting or at a great congress of women is an inspiration. To witness the operation of her keen legal mind, and the dispatch and fairness with which she deals with all questions, and her wise decisions is an education in leadership. Miss Phillips is known both nationally and internationally as a great organizer and leader of woman. She was the founder and organizer of both the National and International Federations of Business and Professional Women. She has served as president of the National Federation for twelve years, and since 1930 has held the position of president of the International Federation. In this latter capacity she has presided over large conventions in America and in several European countries. She is loved and admired today by the business and professional women the world over as their loyal friend, leader, and champion of their nights. Carrie Chapman Catt Carrie Chapman Catt, orator, noted suffrage leader, and peace advocate, on her visit to Salt Lake City in the summer of 1919 paid a visit to Relief Society headquarters. She made a number of addresses during her stay in Salt Lake City, one of which was given in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. I heard President Charles W. Penrose say that hers was one of the best addresses he had ever heard given by either a man or a woman. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 We were all greatly impressed by Mrs. Catt's marvelous ability as a speaker and by the magnetism of her charming personality. She has a vibrant voice, great learning, culture, and charm, and a subtle sense of humor. She was royally entertained by the suffrage leaders in Utah, headed by Emily S. Richards, and she was cordially received by President Heber J. Grant. I have met and heard her speak a number of - times since, and my admiration for her has increased with the years. Mrs. Catt, the most interesting figure in the Woman's Centennial Congress held in New York City in December 1940, was one of its chief promoters. She has been one of the foremost leaders in the interest of world peace and in the fight for the rights of women. Today, at age 82, she heads the Committee on the Cause and Cure of War. She calls upon the women of the country to "war on Prd war. Mrs. Catt has been designated by Ida M. Tarbell as the country's leading stateswoman, and in 1933 she was chosen by the women of America in a nation-wide poll as one of the twelve great women who have made the most valuable contribution to American progress during the past one hundred years. Jane Addams Jane Addams, the great social pioneer, writer, lecturer, peace advocate, founder of the famous social settlement, Hull House, was in her lifetime known the world over as America's most revered woman. One lovely summer morning I went down to the office early to complete an im- IN RETROSPECT portant piece of work, and as I sat at my desk alone I heard someone walk gently down the hall into the outer office. I looked up and there in the doorway, bare-headed, stood the famous and lovely Jane Addams. Not feeling well, she had stopped in Salt Lake City for a day or so on a return trip from California. While her traveling companion made a side trip to Yellowstone Park she was resting in the Hotel Utah. She said that upon learning that she was so near the Relief Society office she had decided to walk over since she had always admired the work of this organization and the splendid service it has given, and she added, "I value highly my acquaintance with my Mormon friends." She remained for over an hour, manifesting keen interest in our work and our plans. I had met Miss Addams on a number of occasions before and had heard her speak at a number of important meetings. My closest contact with her was in the summer of 1902. While studying at the University of Chicago I attended a number of her lectures at Hull House, and upon assignment from my professor, I spent several days at this famous settlement to obtain material for a term paper. She gave me the privilege of several personal interviews. I visited Hull House again in 1911 with Sister Emmeline B. Wells and other delegates to the National Council meeting in Chicago, and we were luncheon guests of Miss Addams in the famous Hull House dining room. But, of course, this visit to our office was the highlight of my acquaintance with Jane Addams, and it was a great honor for the Relief Society to have as a visitor this distinguished woman 697 who had been called the 'best beloved woman in America" and the greatest woman of her time. The name of Jane Addams is always included in any list of great American women, and usually stands first. Dr. Emil Ludwig, the historian and biographic appraiser of reputations, stated in 1928 that the four greatest living Americans in their order were: Thomas A. Edison, Jane Addams, John D. Rockefeller, and Orville Wright. Ida M. Tarbell in 1930 listed Jane Addams among the fifty living women who have done most to advance the welfare of the United States; and in 1933 she was one of the twelve American women chosen by the women of America in a nationwide poll as the great women leaders of the past century. Miss. Addams' dying words were: "Don't think of me in veneration, but carry on my humanitarian work." Karl De Schweinitz Karl De Schweinitz, author of Growing Up, an excellent book for adolescents, and The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, which is well known to Relief Society women all over the Church, is one of the most dynamic and stimulating personalities I have ever met. An outstanding welfare worker and executive, he was for many years general secretary of the Family Society of Philadelphia, and is now professor in charge of the school of social work of the University of Pennsylvania. Following is an excerpt from a letter he wrote me in 1927 regarding the use of his book by Relief Society: I am delighted to have your letter of June 27 with your interesting report. It is a great satisfaction and pleasure to know 698 that you have found The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble of service. This is precisely the use for it that I had in mind when I wrote it. Mary Richmond I first met Mary Richmond, director of the charity organization department of Russell Sage Foundation, and one of America's greatest welfare workers, in Kansas City in June 1918, at a meeting of the National Conference of Social Work. During the previous winter in a course of study in home service given by the University of Colorado and the Red Cross in Denver, we used as a text her book Social Diagnosis, considered the best available text on social case work, and we also read and discussed The Good Neighbor, another of her publications. This work is based on the parable of the Good Samaritan, and it portrays what genuine neighborliness consists of. Be-- cause I had become so much interested in her books, I was naturally interested in the author herself and was eager to see her and to hear her speak. I had often wondered what type of woman it would be who could write such a book as Social Diagnosis. Great was my delight when in Kansas City I had the opportunity of meeting Miss Richmond personally at a small luncheon given in her honor by a few welfare workers. I was especially pleased when I was placed almost directly opposite her at the table where I could view her interesting countenance and_ hear every word she spoke. While I realized from her writings that Mary Richmond respected, honored, and valued highly the sacredness of human personality, that she was always sympathetic with human beings and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 their frailties, and that she was an outstanding scientist in the field of human nature, still I had no idea that one so famous could be so gentle, democratic, and unspoiled. Miss Richmond was plain and simple in her dress, and had a beautiful, motherly face. She was so gentle and friendly and there was so much warmth and charm in her manner that all reserve was broken down at once. If I should compare her with a flower, it would be one of the old-fashioned garden variety, beautiful and modest, yet sturdy and dependable. ) DrelawardT. Renae Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York City, eminent author, educator, and social economist, is one of the most brilliant, interesting, and stimlating friends I have known. For over a half century he has held a high place among educators and welfare workers, and is greatly honored and respected by them for his many and great contributions in the fields of education and human welfare. He is known to many Relief Society women through his books Normal Life, The Family and Social Work, and Principles of Relief. I first met Doctor Devine at the National Conference of Social Work. In Atlantic City in 1919 when, in the Family division meeting, he became interested. In some comments I had made about the Mormon Relief Society. At the close of the session he chatted with me on the great pier for an hour, and thus began a friendship which has lasted through the years. He became greatly interested in the social aspects of Mormonism and later visited Salt Lake City a IN RETROSPECT number of times. He has given lectures at both the B. Y. U. And the U. Of U. Miss Lillian Wald I had the privilege in the summer of 1919 of meeting Miss Lillian Wald of New York City, the founder of Henry Street Settlement, an institution similar in character to Jane Addams' Hull House in Chicago, and the originator of the system of district nursing established today in most of our larger cities, and of the first city school nursing in the world. As a young nurse, Miss Wald was led by a little child into the squalor of an east-side tenement to the bedside of a woman who was giving birth toa baby. The poverty and dirt made such a deep impression upon her that then and there she decided to devote herself to improving the conditions of the poor. Following a convention in Atlantic City, a small group of family welfare workers from the west, upon invitation, visited Henry Street Settlement and a number of social welfare agencies in New York City. Miss Wald received us very kindly, _ invited us to eat luncheon with her, and spent the greater part of the day explaining the work and background of the institution. It was a thrilling experience. Miss Wald, famous for her work, is soft-spoken and sweetvoiced and is the essence of modesty, simplicity, and kindness. She much preferred to talk about her work rather than herself. Grace Abbott Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau of the Department of Labor from 1921 to 1934, was one of 699 America's great women. I have always felt greatly honored in my personal acquaintance and intimate friendship with her. A protege of Jane Addams, she spent much of her life in human welfare work, for which she was richly endowed by nature and well fitted by training. She was a direct and forceful speaker and writer, was president of the National Conference of Social Work in 1924, and American representative on a committee created by the League of Nations for the purpose of devising standards for the protection of women and children. My acquaintance with Miss Abbott began in 1923 when I received a letter from her expressing appreciation for some legislation I had sponsored as a member of the Utah House of Representatives that year. This was followed by a long period of work with her in the interest of maternal and child welfare. The Relief Society, which had already looked ahead and set aside the interest on its wheat fund for maternity and child-welfare work was not only willing but was in an excellent position to cooperate with other agencies in this important work. Miss Abbott's first work in the Children's Bureau was the investigation of infant mortality. The latest census (1912) had shown that three hundred thousand babies under one year had died in the United States during that year. Also that there was an annual loss of 20, coo0 mothers, and there were indications that there had been very little improvement since that time. During the summer of 1926, Miss Abbott telephoned me to see if I could arrange for an appointment for 700 her with Senator Reed Smoot who was at that time in Salt Lake City. She was worried about some problems connected with the Children's Bureau and was anxious to consult the Senator. She said she and her sister, Edith, and Miss Sophonisba Breckenridge were vacationing in Colorado, and that if I could arrange for a meeting with the Senator they would all three come to Salt Lake City and would be pleased to hold a meeting with the welfare workers here. 'The appointment was readily arranged for with the genial Senator, _and the social workers of this city had a rare treat at a dinner meeting with these noted women as speakers. Grace Abbott -has since passed on, but her sister, Edith Abbott, a great teacher and educator, was then and still is dean of the graduate School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, and Miss Breckenridge, trained lawyer, brilliant and talented educator, ls professor of public welfare administration in this same famous school. Following are a few brief excerpts from letters I have received from Grace Abbott which show her friendliness and appreciation: September 4, 1926 Washington, D. C. My dear Mrs. Lyman: This has been a very busy week or I should have written more promptly to thank you for all your courtesies to us while we were in Salt Lake City. I had a most interesting time seeing "America's most beautiful city"... I am especially grateful to you for your help and interest in the Maternity and Infancy work, and for that matter, the whole welfare program of the Bureau. Sincerely yours, (Signed) Grace Abbott ington early in October.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 September 17, 1928 Colorado Springs Dear Mrs. Lyman:; Miss Lenroot forwarded your telegram. I wish I could go to Salt Lake City. I would love to see you, as there are many things I would like to talk with you about. | But I am not doing any speaking this fall and winter.... I hope to get back to Wash-.. | hope your work goes well. Sincerely, (Signed) Grace Abbott 1931 Colorado Springs Dear Mrs. Lyman: I have been convalescing here after an illness and have thought of you and my visit to Salt Lake City as I listen to the beautiful organ at the Temple each week. We are very grateful to you for sending Mrs. Cannon to us—she has been a great help and fitted into a difficult situation beautifully. My best wishes for the New Year. (Signed) Grace Abbott The Mrs. Cannon referred to is the former Anna Laura Stohl, one of the welfare workers from the Relief Society office. Because of her outstanding ability I had no hesitancy in recommending her to Miss Abbott for a position in the Children's Bureau, and it was a great satisfaction to me that she made such an excellent record there. In the death of Miss Abbott, the people of the United States, and particularly mothers and children, lost a great humanitarian friend. She worked intelligently and untiringly to the end that maternal and infant mortality might be reduced throughout the nation. Success crowned her efforts. Next to the giving of life is the saving of life. IN RETROSPECT Miss Kersten Hesselgren and - Dr. Lydia Walstrom While in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1938, visiting the Relief Society organizations of that mission, I had the opportunity of meeting two prominent Swedish women — national characters—Miss Kersten Hesselgren and Dr. Lydia Walstrom. This came about through the courtesy of President Gustive O. Larson of the Swedish Mission. It was a renewal of acquaintance with Miss Hesselgren, whom I had met before in America. She at one time had served as president of the National Council of Sweden, and at this time she was a member of the Swedish Riksdag (parliament). She received us very cordially in the lobby of the parliament building, and escorted us to the gallery where we witnessed the Riksdag in session and heard her make an impassioned speech in the Swedish language, which I. Of course, could not understand. The subject of the discussion was a bill providing for vacations with pay for all workers, which she later informed me passed and became a law. After the session, Miss Hesselgren escorted us through the building, introduced us to some prominent members of the Riksdag and chatted freely with us in perfect English on a number of pertinent subiects. She is an interesting and widely-read woman, and she is acquainted with a number of American women who are also acquaintances of mine. Doctor Walstrom, a friend of President Larson's, also a master of English, is a well-known Swedish writer. She said she was especially pleased to see me, as she had noted 701 by the paper that I was to be an American delegate to the jubilee meeting of the International Council to be held in a few weeks in Edinburgh, and she was anxious to discuss with me some features of the program. (President Larson was responsible for this newspaper publicity). She told me she attended the convention of the International Council when it met in Norway in 1920, and had objected vigorously to the Mormon women being permitted to take part in the proceedings. She said she had long since changed her mind. Her early attitude, she said, had been due to misinformation. We had a very interesting and profitable hour with her, discussing various Mormon beliefs and practices. She is a beautiful and charming woman, a lady in her own right, and she lives in a lovely old home. Mary McCleod Bethune, For many years the National Association of Colored Women has belonged to the National Council of Women of the United States, and one of their greatest leaders, whom I have met many times, is Mary McCleod Bethune, who was born of Negro parents, both slaves. She is a gifted and eloquent public speaker and often moves an audience to tears when she discusses the background, handicaps and problems of her people and tells of the desires of their leaders to uplift the colored race and help them secure justice. Mrs. Bethune is remarkable for her great accomplishments both for herself personally and for her people. She is the founder of the Bethune Cookman Institute for colored children, and she has established a home 702 for delinquent Negro girls. She is active in all phases of social, educational, and moral betterment among her people. Her name appears in Ida M. Tarbell's list of fifty living American women who in her opinion have done most to advance the welfare of the United States. Mrs. Mary Church Terrell While living in London, I attended with Doctor Lyman the religious conference known as the World's Fellowship of Faith. He had been invited to appear on the program to discuss the subject "Mormon Beliefs." Listed among the speakers was Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, a tall, angular, dark-complex- C ioned American woman with gray, slightly wavy hair. Her subject was racial problems and the church. I was greatly surprised at first to learn that she is part Negro. She discussed. The problems of the Negro race and made a passionate plea for justice for them. At the reception which followed the meeting, she sought the Mormon missionaries to discuss with them some of the features of Mormonism. She told us she admired very much the Mormon people, their beliefs and standards, with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 which she seemed to be familiar, but she criticized the Church severely because she said she understood that it does not permit Negroes to hold the Priesthood. She asked us for suggestions regarding the Negro question in the United States, and when asked what she thought of segregation for the Negro she flared back at once: "In such a case, where would I go? I am half white." I met Mrs. Terrell again in 1940 at the Women's Centennial Congress in New York, where she was listed and honored with other famous women as one of the American women leaders in theology and social science. 'This same list included, among others, the names of Edith Abbott, dean of the School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, and Sophonisba Breckenridge of the faculty of the University. Mrs. Terrell was graduated from Oberlin College in 1884. She studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, and she also studied in Germany. She is the author of Colored Women in a White World, which includes an introduction by H. G. Wells. (To be continued) 4 —— WALK on an October morning brings a renewal of faith and hope. It is uplifting to arise early enough to catch the glory of the dawn, when earth is moist and the challenge of a new day strengthens the soul. Quietude is here. All autumn's beauty touches the heart: limbs stripped of their summer plumage, crumbled leaves mingling with the soil—this is the end of pageantry, but the promise of the springs that always come. From you, October, I take a drink of courage; it will sustain me through a long, long day.—Ruby Johnson. History Perpetuated by the Potter's Skill Nellie O. Parker Member of Relief Society General Board HERE is a feeling of delight in being reminded of events and pleasant associations of the past. Memory seems to bring them back mellowed and glorified, and the re-living enriches life, adding joy and understanding to the present. A friend once said, "I am never lonely or bored, although I live alone. There are so many things in my home to remind me of friends, of interesting experiences, of places I have visited, that I always have something to think about. I remember that in Venice I found this picture in a quaint little shop after having ridden in a gondola. I can still feel the romance of it. This figurine came from Rome, and there is a story with it, too. The 'old blue' Staffordshire plate came across the plains in Grandmother's metal chest. 'Old blue' is greatly coveted now, but it is for its close association with Grandmother that I treasure the plate most. "This," she said, holding up a volume of poetry, "was a birthday present from Mother, the last she ever gave me. We were all home that night and had such a wonderful time—one of the happiest of my life. I love to recall it now.' Thus, she continued to ames out her mementos. Souvenirs and mementos are usually collected for the purpose of keeping alive in one's memory an event or an experience. In the words of Emily Dickinson, "They ring memory's bell and let the thoughts run in." And as the years go by, they usually become more precious, in many cases becoming treasured heirlooms. Commemorative plates are a favorite form of memento. They usually enshrine a great man or woman, a beloved scene, or a historic occasion. Portraying great events and epochal occasions, they make history live again. Capitalizing upon the popular desire of people to collect and own commemorative plates, the Josiah Wedgewood and Sons, Inc., of England, well-known makers of Wedgewood pottery, recently originated and produced a set of plates of old London scenes, including Westminister Abbey, 'Trafalgar Square, Tower of London, etc. 'These plates are intended to be mementos to hand down to posterity, valued not only because they are historical symbols, but because of the hazardous conditions under which they were produced in war-torn England, and also because the proceeds from their sale was turned over to the British War Relief Society to aid the war effort. These plates will be a reminder of this tragic and significant time in world history. The charm and atmosphere of Carvel Hall in Annapolis, Maryland, is greatly enhanced by the beautiful and historic plates in the famous old hostelry's dining rooms. One can Page 703 feel that he is living again in the time of Washington, a time of powdered wigs, lace ruffles, and strong sentiments in favor of freedom. Many alumni associations of large universities have established commemorative plates to help. Their members retain the fond memories of their school days. ON March 17, 1942, Relief Society reached a very important milestone in its history—it's one-hundredth anniversary. Surely this great occasion should be perpetuated for those who come after. One hundred years of noble ideals which actuated a vast record of loving, humanitarian service and high achievement merits commemoration by enduring and impressive symbols. A commemorative plate was chosen as a souvenir the women of the organization would greatly appreciate. There was much thought and careful consideration given to the selection of a suitable motive or subject for the plate. When The Deseret News discovered among its files an old zinc etching of the first meeting of Relief Society, which it reproduced in connection with one of President Amy Brown Lyman's talks, the quest ended. This was the very thing—that epochal occasion when the Prophet organized women and a great century of enlightenment and opportunity for them was ushered in! The author of the drawing was unknown. Local artists designed a border of wheat to encircle the picture—wheat, that sustainer of life which has figured so prominently in Relief Society history and which typifies so well the nature of the Society as it works for human welfare. These artists assisted in perfecting the picture for the copper plate from which the design was transferred by the artisans to the earthenware. Due to war conditions and restrictions, it was difficult to find a pottery company which could guarantee the making and delivery of the plates in time for the centennial anniversary. A famous overseas company saw great possibilities in the making of a Mormon historical plate and was eager to make the Relief Society commemorative plate, but the insecurity of ocean travel made the placing of a contract with them inadvisable. The Vernon Kilns of California were given the assignment and have produced a very attractive and meaningful plate. By viewing this plate, one can imagine himself entering the room above the Prophet Joseph Smith's store with its three windows facing the street; he can feel the eager expectancy of those eighteen women who had just been organized into a society; he can follow them as they courageously launched forth into the untried fields of participation in public meetings and leadership among women. 'Their inexperience makes one marvel at their remarkable achievements. 'Their great desire to be helpful to those in need, their earnestness in working together to make better the conditions with which they were confronted, will ever be an inspiration to those who know how well they served. This commemorative plate is a reminder of the guiding strength and God-given inspiration of the Prophet and his companions, Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards, as they 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 HISTORY PERPETUATED BY THE POTTER'S SKILL instructed the women and 'made their contributions to the charity fund of the Society. It prompts one to recall the womanly dignity and culture of Emma Smith as she presided, and the efficiency and fidelity of Eliza R. Snow as she made a record of the meeting. That first meeting was a humble but important occasion. The seedling that was planted that day has grown into a great tree with farreaching branches, whose roots are still nourished by inspiration and by the desire to help others in need and to raise human life to its highest level. 705 The Relief Society commemorative plate preserves for posterity the story of the organization meeting of Relief Society and creates new interest in the Society's great mission of human service. It inspires women of today to high endeavor, to be as capable, as versatile and as resourceful as those heroines of a century past. Truly an epochal occasion is recorded and enshrined by the potter's skill; the Relief Society centennial plate is a memento which the daughters of Relief Society mothers will count among their prized possessions. Ye DREAMS Mabel Jones Gabbott I polish my pottery, yellow and blue, Bright pieces of clay in odd shades of each hue. The years have been long since the ancient Malays With herbs and with roots, in crude Indian ways, Were molding and painting such jars all by hand And letting them dry on the hot southern sand. Today in the factories polished and fine, Are thousand of plates and cups made just like mine, But I love the beauty of each tinted piece. The romance of pottery never will cease For me, for I see in each bright colored hue The dream, ages old, of some potter come true. OQ, EDIT ORIAL eS Vol. 29 OCTOBER, 1942 No. 10 She Development DURING periods of economic depression, epidemic, war, or other abnormal conditions, the regular way of conducting one's affairs is usually interferred with. Patterns of living, methods of procedure, standards that have been laboriously established, feel the impact of these unwonted circumstances, and individuals are left confused, discouraged, and often at a loss to know how best to proceed. New ways of accomplishing one's purposes must be worked out, and this is usually fraught with fear and anxiety. We are all so constituted that we like the established way of doing. We prefer the familiar, the tried and tested road, to the new and untried, and so we cry against those things which make us find a new way, often looking with disfavor upon the new and condemning it without giving due consideration to its merit. Among the many new situations brought about by the present war, and one which will be felt in our Relief Society organizations, is that of women going to work in defense industries. A recent issue of a popular magazine states: ""Today factories all over the United States are putting women on assembly lines... With more than goo, coo of them now working in war industries." Since little more than a year ago, "the number of men leaving for military service has trebled. That means 3 times as many jobs are being dished out to women. That means that for every 5 men who leave, only 1 new man is hired; the Page 706 of New Leaders other four replacements are women." The flow of women into industry will rob Relief Society of many capable officers and class leaders. Societies in defense areas will be particularly affected. One ward Relief Society president reports that five class leaders have resigned because of accepting employment. A _ stake president reports that one of the most pronounced problems of the stake is the officering of the ward organizations due to the fact that so many women are now working. 'These are but representative of the situation in a number of wards and stakes. This is a disheartening situation, but it is one which can be adequately met if those responsible for the well being of Relief Society will courageously strike out upon a new path and make use of new and heretofore untried material. In practically every local organization are women with ability—developed and potential—who, if properly appealed to, may be drawn into service. Some of them may be backward women who, prefer to let their more experienced or more confident sisters take the lead, but if they can be made to feel that they are genuinely needed, they will usually respond and render excellent service. The new members who were enrolled during the recent membershipbuilding program offer a fertile field for the selection of leaders. Many of these women are very capable and if given responsibility will fill positions of trust creditably. If no re- EDITORIAL sponsibility is given them, some may lose interest in the Society and even drop out. Activity is a law of life. One of the functions of Church auxiliaries is to provide opportunity for leadership growth. Relief Society offers an ideal situation for this: Relief Society members are sympathetic and understanding. 'They are deeply appreciative of effort. They are willing to help one another succeed. 'They are disposed to be patient with those who are learning. They are inclined to be free from severity in judging the work of one who is striving to serve. 'They are genuinely anxious to see their sisters sucCee. The present disturbing situation in our Society brought about by so many women working presents an opportunity for us to center upon 707 one of our important responsibilities —the development of new leadership strength. The challenge is for those responsible for the success of the work of the Society to be alert to the abilities of all the members; to learn of their interests and qualifications through observation, through intimate conversations with the women themselves, and through inquiring about them. This is a time for intelligent careful planning, for consideration of foundations on which good building may be done later. We should not be defeated by the problems of the day, but should push through the annoying difficulties to the larger fields of opportunity and success. "Wind and storm but strengthen a growing tree."—B. S. S. 'Happenings "to be Discontinued ig is with sincere regret that the Magazine announces the discontinuance of "Happenings," due to the death of Annie Wells Cannon, author of the page. First appearing in the July 1931 issue of the Magazine, and continuing monthly since that date, "Happenings" has been one of the Magazine's most popular pages. Introduced by a poetic verse appropriate for the month, composed by Mrs. Cannon, the page has contained items of current interest about noted women. Attention has been called to the latest books by women. Birthday fetes and other occasions honoring Latter-day Saint women, particularly those of advanced age, have been recognized, as have the deaths of outstanding Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Cannon's occasional comments on world conditions or events reported in the column have been particularly apropos. In addition to "Happenings," Mrs. Cannon has contributed choice poetry and many excellent articles to the Magazine. Her knowledge of Relief Society work due to her many years of active service in the Society, her familiarity with Relief Society history, her acquaintance with Relief Society leaders, and her rare literary gift have made her articles interesting and of inestimable value. From June 1905 until February 1914, Mrs. Cannon was associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine. Her literary works, both prose and poetry will be sincerely missed by The Relief Society Magazine readers, Woteds. To THE FIELD ORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, October 1941 Stake or Mission Stakes Farr West Humboldt Lake View Mt. Jordan South Ogden Missions Northern Calif. Stake or Mission Stakes Bear Lake Benson Box Elder Cottonwood Moroni New York North Weber Oakland Roosevelt South Sanpete St. Joseph Summit Zion Park Missions Argentine Brazilian Hawaiian Mexican New England Northwestern Sts. Formerly Part of North Weber Reno, Nevada, and Mt. Ogden Weber East Jordan Mt. Ogden California Mission Appointed President Nellie W. Neal Sarah C. Martin Fern B. Fowers Minnie Ballard Olive M. Christiansen Mary S. Ellsworth REORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, October 1941 Released Veda Shepherd Lulu E. Johnson Grace V. Price Lyle M. Berry Elillian Ivory Eva F. Driggs Nellie W. Neal Anna L. Ellsworth Elsie M. 'Taylor Clarice B. Tuttle Milla T. Wee Katherine M. Judd Josephine Sandberg Corraine S. Williams Amelia W. Bowers Armada B. Cox Vera P. Anderson Valeria D. Young Florence G. Smith Appointed President ~ Amy M. Athay Leona McCarrey Josie J. Jeppson Florence H. Bennion Leona Irons Eva Haglund Melva O. Stratford Ruth Savage Hilton Margaret Wiscombe Anna S. Rasmuson Wilda Merrill Mary E. Wright Inez Burgener Kate Barker Ada P. Seegmiller Eldred L. Waldron Mary B. Done Pierce Bertha S. Reeder Edna H. Bennion % Date January 18, 1942 July 26, 1942 March 22, 1942 June 14, 1942 December 7, 1941 January 2, 1942 Date May 17, 1942 July 12, 1942 July 12, 1942 July 13, 1942 August 2, 1942 May 17, 1942 March 29, 1942 May 31, 1942 April 26, 1942 August 16, 1942 June 21, 1942 November 16, 1941 June 6, 1942 August 1, 1942 February 25, 1942 July 1, 1942 August 13, 1942 December 12, 1941. January 14, 1942 NEW RADIO SERIES—"DRAMATIZATIONS FROM THE LIVING BIBLE" 4h General Board highly recommends the new series of radio programs "Dramatizations from the Living Bible" scheduled to begin October 16, 1942. This program will be broadcast from station KSL at Salt Lake City each Friday evening from 7 to 7:30 p. M. Mountain Wartime, an hour when, it is hoped, most members of the family can listen together. This series will continue for fifty-two weeks—one full year. Incorporated in these half-hour dramatizations is some of the world's finest music, majestic choral renditions of anthems centuries old when Christ was born. Recordings | of these programs will be available for the use of stakes and wards, details of which will be published later, Page 708 Rationing Note: The following information with respect to rationing, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, State Consumer Relations Officer, Office of Price Adminstration, will be found of interest to Relief Society women: HE basic idea of rationing is not new to Mormons, and indeed in one form or another was carried on by American pioneers generally. Essentially, rationing means simply that where a limited supply of a given commodity exists, all shall share equally. Thus all people share on a democratic and equitable basis in the sacrifices imposed on the civilians of a country engaged in total war. Most citizens deem it a privilege to make this small contribution, this small sacrifice, to help their country at war, especially when they remember that some of their countrymen are making the supreme sacrifice to protect the security of their homes and the freedom they hold so dear. While the idea of sharing with our neighbors is not new to America, official rationing programs developed and conducted by the Government for the 132 million people in this country are new. Literally thousands of people must be recruited and trained to handle the job. Fortunately for all of us, this is done almost entirely by volunteers. For example, when the registration for the basic sugar ration was undertaken, some 9,000 school __ superintendents throughout the United States with their boards of education contributed their time and money. They recruited many thousands of teachers to assist in the job. The members of the thousands of local war price and rationing boards likewise are volunteers, except for paid secretaries to assist the larger boards. The whole problem of rationing is complicated 'by the fact that several different methods must be used for the rationing of different commodities. This is illustrated by two commodities we are now rationing, sugar and automobiles. Sugar is used almost universally. The problem of determining how much should be allowed to any one person is merely a problem in arithmetic. The anticipated supply is simply divided by the number of individual and industrial consumers, and the quotient is the amount allowed. Automobiles, on the other hand, never were used by everyone. This, coupled with the fact that the shortage of cars is so severe, makes it a problem not of simple division, but rather of classifying all users of automobiles and allotting cars only to those most essential to public health, welfare, and the war effort. The English system of rationing clothing illustrates still a third method. In this instance, a group of related items must be considered at once. For while it is true that all people use clothing, there is no single article that is used by everyone. For example, office workers would have little or no use for overalls. Accordingly, the English ration clothing by issuing a book of coupons. Then each item of clothing is given a ration point value. For example, a pair of man's socks might have a value of two ration points, while a man's suit might have a value of forty _ (Continued on page 741) Page 709 The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Lucile Wallace Wolf Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the needy: She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. ANDICRAF'T to the Pioneer woman meant not only the creating of things beautiful, but also the creating of needed materials and articles for daily living. As she settled in the West and established a permanent home, she produced with her own hands unusual quilts, counterpanes, curtains, hand-hooked and braided rugs, carpets, even painted and embroidered pictures to adorn the plain walls, utilizing the means available to make for her family a home of beauty and culture. These wonderful women wove the materials that clothed their families, often exchanging this for other needed goods made by fellow craftsmen. Many of these women, converts to the Church, did beautiful weaving, which they had learned in the Old World. As the silk industry was developed in the Valley, lovely ribbons, and silk yardage were made. These Pioneer women, resting from the strain of a hard day's work, found comfort in creating a piece of beautiful lace for a baby's dress or for a dainty collar, for a frill to pin at the Page 710 _ (Proverbs chapter 31:10-38) neck, or for trimming for an otherwise plain sheet or pillowcase to be treasured and used in time of illness or for the special guest. Most of us remember our grandmother's or great-grandmother's lovely bits of lace, crocheted, knitted, netted, or hand loomed. Many wonderful samples of Pioneer handwork are left for us today, and we marvel at the skill and artistry involved. One of the loveliest quilts the Mormon Handicraft Shop has had, was made by a woman eightyfour years old, who pieced the beautiful flower-basket design and then added to each basket appliqued garden flowers in original design. Beautiful handwork was the delight of the Mormon Pioneer woman. Appreciation for beautiful handwork is the heritage that has made the Mormon Handicraft Shop possible. N the summer of 1937, at a time of stress when family incomes needed to be augmented, the Relief Society General Board opened this very unusual Shop. The purpose of the Shop was to encourage the making of fine handiwork, to preserve the THE MORMON HANDICRAFT GIFT SHOP skills practiced by our Pioneer women, and to afford opportunity for supplementing family incomes through the sale of the beautiful articles made. ~The Shop was first located on the second floor of the Bureau of Information on Temple Square, but was later moved to its present location at 21 West 'Temple Street—a splendid location for tourist trade. Articles accepted for sale in the Mormon Handicraft Shop must meet the highest standards of workmanship. Material must be good and colors correct. Persons wishing to send their work to the Shop pay a small annual membership fee. Ward and stake Relief Society organizations are encouraged to hold membership in the Shop, which entitles members of the organization to enter work without taking out an individual membership, provided their work meets the requirements of the Shop. Persons participating in the Shop range in age from twelve to eightysix years of age. An eighty-six-yearold woman provides beautiful knitted lace which trims a pillowcase and sheet set. Because the membership of the Church is made up of people from many lands, there is great variety and diversity of talent found in the articles in the Shop. The use of motifs that are characteristic of the State of Utah and of the Church is encouraged: the sego lily, the state flower; the beehive, the state symbol; the state protected seagull; the famous Mormon Tabernacle; the covered wagon, etc. Among the many interesting articles to be found in the Shop are the 711 Mormon Pioneer dolls, which are sent to doll collectors all over the United States. Since September 1938 over 3000 dolls have been sent to doll collectors. 'These handmade dolls are eight inches tall and are dressed in characteristic pioneer costumes of 1847. 'They are named good old pioneer names: "Aunt Susan" in her little print dress and sunbonnet; "Aunt Sara" with her little shoulder shawl and knitting a stocking; "Aunt Mary" holding a baby with its long white dress and little white bonnet; "Uncle Silas" in characteristic costume; then, "Aunt Susan" and "Uncle Silas" dressed in "Sunday best.": For the Relief Society centennial a special group of dolls was created to represent the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women present at the organization meeting of Relief Society. Another item that is becoming quite famous is the attractive teatowel set that comes from Nampa, Idaho; and the infants' dresses from Heber City are exquisite. Back of the exquisite handwork of the Shop are many fascinating human-interest stories; for example, an invalid with a serious heart ailment makes the little felt articles that sell as fast as she can produce them. Another woman suffering so with arthritis that she must use a wheel chair makes the lovely crochet doilies with beads crocheted into the designs, and with the money received from her work she buys war bonds. Ever so many women in their seventies receive a check each month for the articles they supply. 712 "THROUGH the Mormon Handicraft Shop many family incomes have been increased, and real missionary work is taking place. The hundreds of visitors coming to the Shop take away with them or send to their friends the beautiful articles made by Mormon women. They are 'delighted with the fine workmanship and the reasonable prices—articles ranging from twenty-five cents up. Lovely quilts and other handmade articles are being sent all over the United States. A woman of prominence recently purchased three lovely quilts for her country home in Alabama where she has all earlyAmerican furnishings. A famous singer who recently visited Salt Lake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 bought three beautiful quilts, and each time a certain famous concert pianist comes to Salt Lake City he visits the Shop and makes a number of purchases. Men in the service of our country visit the Shop daily, finding there appropriate gifts for their loved ones at home. At the present time the Shop is preparing for Christmas, and unusual and beautiful articles are being added to the stock daily. Mormon. Handicraft Shop is fulfilling the purposes for which it was established and merits the interest and support of Relief Society women. FROM THIS TO DUSK Ruby Johnson It is half-past sunset. Swift from the cares of day I come to drink of this— ° The prelude to a summer night. I lie in deep damp grass. Along the sky line wispy pinks Sift through gray cloud-fluff, And soft dust flakes, Borne by the first sweet breeze of evening, Settle on my bed of grass. Above me the gnarled old boxelders Lean low and bend from path to road, Their shadows tagging as they sway, Their red bugs scuttling up-limb to seek a dark safety. How magically you change to dusk, You twilight with your lingerings of light And clouds touched with mother-of-pear!! Yes, I can trace your beginning, But not your ending. Just as Summer's warm breath Cools gradually to Fall, So you go quietly to meet the dawn. I hope that I, now young, May wear my aging years with grace And sweet dignity. May I walk nobly to meet death— Just as you, before my rested eyes, Meet, in beauty, the deep dusk—and night. Little Memories That Sweeten Life Lella Marler Hoggan I love old roads that lure my feet along the way of quiet streams With rustic spans where I may pause and weave a golden web of dreams. EMORY is one of the choice gifts of life. We may lift ourselves from the strenuous cares of everyday or even from the depths of sorrow and despair on the golden wings of memory. Whatever strength of character we may manifest, whatever physical or intellectural powers we may possess, they are ours because of what has gone before. The past is rich in memories of wholesome experiences and delightful adventures. 'There is a wealth of truth and beauty, of love and laughter stowed away in our dreams of yesterday. And because no life is patterned all in golden gladness, we shall also find among the relics of the past, failures and losses, disappointments and broken dreams. Day after day as the swift moments fall Weare hanging pictures on Memory's wall. The painter is ready, and dark or fair, Our thoughts and acts are pictured there. —Selected It has been said that there are persons who lock the door to the Gallery of the Past and throw the key away. They tell us that it only makes them morbid and melancholy to remember what has gone before. Such persons do not realize what they are withholding from themselves. The past is one of our greatest teachers. We can make of it a friendly, genial —Grace Ingles Frost companion if we will but learn to manage Our memories. Let us be assured that it is possible, in a measure, to choose which pictures we shall hang on the walls of memory and which ones we shall view from day to day. What we put into the Gallery of the Past and what we later take out, is largely a matter of choice. We are forever confronted with the necessity of determining what constitutes life's values. We must choose what we shall leave or take, what we shall cherish or discard. Why should we not also choose from the past that which shall yield us the most in true values. Why should we loiter in the shadows when it is just as easy to rise to the sunlit heights? There is no reason for recalling past failures and disappointments in preference to remembering glad surprises and generous blessings. Let us learn to enjoy the past. Let us think of it as a great storehouse of treasure from which we may draw according to our needs. And let us use care and judgment in our selection of what shall be stored away for future use. ONG ago a rare motto was found upon a sundial in Italy—"I mark only the shining hours." How much more delightful the journey of life Page 713 714 could be made for each of us if we would learn to do that very thing, "mark only the shining hours." Should sorrow or tragedy come into the home, if we will hedge it round about with comforting, sustaininy words and actions, then, by the law | of association, the memory of these kindly deeds will accompany the remembrance of the heartache whenever it comes to mind. A young girl said she always remembered with pleasure a certain painful illness she once experienced, because each day during her illness a friend had played soft, sweet music in the room next to her own. Instead of grieving hopelessly over the loss of a loved one, is it not possible to recall their noble characteristics, rejoice in them, and try to lift our own life to a higher plane of action? "The only way I can show my appreciation of my brave, sweet mother," said Helen, "'is to try to be to my children what she has been to me." "Harold would not want me to go about in sackcloth and ashes," asserted Mary. "Even though he is dead, he is still my husband, and he expects me to bravely carry on the beautiful work we have begun together." The memory of a happy life sustained her in her loss. "T never think of the time when Benny was lost," said Elaine, "without feeling a little thrill of joy, because of the prayer we offered as we all knelt around Aunt Alice's chair, and because of the miraculous man- -RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 ner in which Benny was later restored to us." There is a fable that is good to remember of two buckets which were used for drawing water from a deep, cool well. | "Dear me!" complained the first bucket," no matter how full I am when I come up, I always go back empty." "Well, well," replied the second bucket, "I was just thinking that no matter how empty I am when I go down, I always come up full." Sometimes we get a false view of life and emphasize thoughts that when later recalled will bring only bitterness. And regret. If we make a definite effort to record things that are good to remember, things that will later bring joy and satisfaction to the soul, we shall be able to recall them at will through the years. And if we ignore the regrettable happenings, time will eventually wash them off the slate. There are many. Ways of securing the thoughts which we desire to make permanently ours: We can keep a little book of "Happy Memories." We can make a scroll of "Prayers." We can gather a collection of "Choice Poems" and "Favorite Hymns." And we can. Make a scrapbook of "Fun and Folly" for the gray hours when our enthusiasm runs low. These are a few of the many ways we can secure the glad memories that will sweeten life and hold us to the fulfillment of our -dreams. A 4—- _ FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420. RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCES Idaho Stake (Bancroft, Idaho) "THE Kelly-Toponce Ward Relief Society, of which Elva A. Call is president, submitted the following well-written account of its centennial party successfully held on March 17 despite unfavorable conditions, including sickness, bad weather, bad roads, and the sudden death of one of the members on the morning of the anniversary: "A beautiful and chaste woman is the workmanship of God, the true glory of angels, the rare miracle of earth, and the sole wonder of th world." —Hermes. "Basing our centennial program upon this thought the Kelly-Toponce Relief Society depicted the lives of the eight general presidents of the Relief Society of the Church and the five presidents of the KellyToponce Relief Society. Our president gave a short, inspirational talk on "The Gains and Benefits of Relief Society." 'Two readers, one dressed in old-fashioned costume, the other modern, read a very brief history of all the general presidents of the Church. Women carefully chosen to represent the physical make-up of each president and appropriately dressed for the character represented, came to the stand and were seated in a semicircle. The ceremony was very impressive, and the history and progress of the Relief Society was brought out in this way. The poem 'Songs of the Pioneers' was read, and two verses of each song mentioned in the poem were sung by a Relief Society chorus. "We then honored our own beloved presidents with brief talks on their lives, stressing some of the fine things they had contributed to the lives of the people and to the advancement of our own Relief Society. The bishop gave a tribute to the Society, and the centennial prize poem, 'Brave Privileged Feet,' was read, after which the Relief Society sang 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' After the benediction the sisters served refreshments." This Society gave a Relief Society pin to five retiring officers, the presentation being made by the bishop. Pasadena Stake (Pasadena, California) "THE Montebello Ward Relief Society, of which Agnes Heath is president, held its centennial treeplanting service on March 22, 1942 at noon. The program was as follows: Singing 'by the congregation, "America The Beautiful" Page 715 716 PLANTING CENTENNIAL TREE, MONTEBELLO WARD, PASADENA STAKE President Agnes Heath in print dress at right A history of the ward Relief Society and a record of the tree-planting are preserved in a compartment in the cement in which the tree marker was set. Welcome by the Relief Society president Reading, 'Prayer of the Forest" Vocal trio, "Trees" Audition of the centennial phonograph record sent by the General Board Tree planting and dedication of the tree Accompanying is a picture of the tree planting. The General Board commends this ward for the complete historical material prepared by it, copies of which were preserved in a unique manner. An excellent summarized history of this fouryear-old ward Relief Society signed by all officers, special workers, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 e class leaders, a list of all members of the Society as of March 17, 1942, a copy of the program, a shorthand transcription of the beautiful and fitting dedicatory prayer for the centennial tree by Bishop Herbert J. Bingham, and snapshots of the treeplanting service and of the congregation in attendance were sealed in a compartment attached and cemented in with the bronze marker for the centennial tree. San Fernando Stake (Los Angeles, California) HE following report of the flourishing Elysian Park Ward Relief Society was submitted by Anne Aardema, ward reporter, and Bishop William E. Lund: "The Relief Society of the Elysian Park Ward of San Fernando Stake in Los Angeles, California, is growing by leaps and bounds, In our quest for new members, we have had the thrill of doubling our membership. We have placed The Relief Society Magazine in three times as many homes as in the previous year. "Our president, Jennie Harris, and her counselors Zelda Shipley and Olive St. John are the inspiration under which the drive for membership has flourished. "Our classes have been very interesting and helpful. We found the class on family life helped us personally to iron out many problems. In this time of crises the lessons on home management are of vital importance to every woman in the Church. The literature and theology lessons have broadened our vision and given us a new desire to NOTES FROM THE FIELD better live our religion. "To celebrate our birthday of one hundred years, we held a ward party. Several hundred people attended. The Relief Society planted and dedicated a beautiful fir tree in honor of the occasion. The service was held at twilight and was very impressive. We are inclosing a picture of the tree service. "We love this work. We sincerely hope every woman in the Church will attend her Relief Society and enjoy the blessings obtained from it." Los Angeles Stake (California) LARA W. ARMSTRONG, sectetary-treasurer of Hollywood Ward Relief Society, sent the following comprehensive account of the observance of the centennial in 717 this ward: "In commemoration of the centennial of the Relief Society, the Hollywood Ward held a celebration on 'Tuesday morning, March 17, 1942. "President Geneva Cooper presided and announced the program. She welcomed all present, among whom were four stake officers and Bishop Raymond Kirkham. She gave a brief outline of the organization of the Hollywood Ward Relief Society in June 1922, and of its work and progress. "After the invocation by Geneva Dunn, former secretary, we were happy to hear by transcription greetings from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. "A play of pioneer. Days in three scenes under the direction of Reta PLANTING CENTENNIAL TREE, ELYSIAN PARK WARD OF SAN FERNANDO STAKE In the picture are former Bishop John J. Mollinet, present Bishop William E. Lund, and Relief Society president, Jennie Harris. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 SINGING MOTHERS OF HOLLYWOOD WARD, LOS ANGELES STAKE In costumes in which they sang cantata, "Messengers of Mercy" on March 17, 1942. RELIEF SOCIETY OF WILSHIRE WARD, LOS ANGELES STAKE In the patio of the Los Angeles Stake House near the spot where the centennial tree was planted, March 17, 1942. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Watkins, with narration by Mona Kirkham, was presented in connection with the cantata 'Messengers of Mercy' by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Chorister Dorothy Winters.. The three sections of the cantata, "The Call,' "The Message,' and "he Challenge' were given, respectively, at the close of each of the three scenes of the play. Soloists were Agnes Thorup and Karma Thompson, sopranos, and ' Arvonia Jones, contralto. All who took part wore old-fashioned costumes, as shown in the accompanying picture. "After the benediction by Catherine Webb, all gathered outside the chapel for the tree-planting ceremony. This opened with the singing of "The Spirit of God Like a ie Fire is Burning' led by Mary Rex, stake chorister. Bishop Raymond Kirkham gave the dedicatory speech after which he planted the tree, an Italian Cyprus. A bronze marker with the inscription 'Relief Society Centennial Tree—1942' had been placed nearby. President Geneva Cooper read the names of past and present officers of the Hollywood Ward Relief Society. 'Those who were present, including the stake officers, responded to her request to place a shovelful of earth around the tree. | "The dedicatory prayer was given by Beulah McAllister, first counselor of Los Angeles Stake. "A delicious buffet luncheon was served in the recreation room. A large cake decorated in blue and RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL TREE PLANTING IN WASHINGTON STAKE, WASHINGTON, D. C. The shovel is held by Elizabeth G. Hales, president, and her counselors, Marjorie B. Cottam and Pearl Hale Goodsell, and Secretary-Treasurer Mary C. Waldron await their turn at the shovel. The tree is supported by presidents of the six local Relief Societies in this stake—Fairview Ward, Mollie Moats Stoops; Baltimore Ward, Cleopha M. Perry; Capitol Ward, Ethel L. Neeley; Arlington Ward, Annie C. Burton; Chevy Chase Ward, Anna Laura S. Cannon; and Washington Ward, Eleanor M. Farr. The women in long dresses participated in the centennial pageant, March 17, 1942. 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 SCENES FROM MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT Presented February 28, 1942. Top: Organization of Relief Society; center, The Choice Land; bottom, The Album. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 721 SINGING MOTHERS OF MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE WHO SANG AT CENTENNIAL PAGEANT At center front (wearing corsages) are stake Relief Society president Erma Stewart, chorister Leona Lines, and organist Levene Ferrin. Yellow with the inscription 'Relief Society Centennial 1942' made an attractive centerpiece. The Hollywood Ward choir sent an exquisite basket of flowers for the occasion. "One hundred and twenty-five were present to enjoy the celebration which was an event long to be' remembered." - Mount Graham Stake (Safford, Arizona) HE Relief Society centennial was observed in this stake by a stake celebration on February 28 held at the time of the stake quarterly conference. Erma M. Stewart, stake president of Relief Society, and Clare K. Claridge, stake secretary, sent the following report: "On the afternoon of February 28 we held our tree-planting ceremonial. We planted a Himalayan Pine on the grounds of the Roosevelt Park. The reason that we planted this tree in this community park was that we have no definite stake house, but use the Safford and Layton Ward chapels for stake purposes. As these ward Societies were planting their trees on these grounds, we thought it might be a nice public gesture to plant our tree in this community park. "At our ceremonial two members of the stake presidency were present, President Spencer Kimball who gave a talk and First Counselor J. Harold Mitchell who offered the dedicatory prayer. A member of the American Legion, who has charge of the park, accepted the tree for the community following its presentation by the stake Relief Society president. All present helped to cover the roots with dirt. | "We are enclosing pictures taken of our pageant which was presented Saturday evening, February 28, and a copy of the song, 'Oh Blessed is the Land,' composed by our stake chorister, Leona Lines, which opened the second scene of the pageant." The Mount Graham Stake Relief Society centennial pageant was in three parts: (1) Organization of Relief Society, (2) The Choice Land, 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 OFFICERS OF SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, LOGAN STAKE, AROUND SERVING TABLE AT CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Left to right, seated—Elizabeth Stewart, activity director; Jennie McBride, organist; Mary M. Larsen, first counselor; Laura A. Watkins, president; Alice W. Skanchy, second counselor; Luella R. Lear, secretary; Mary Bjorkman, home topic leader; Irene T. Fletcher, activity director; standing—Gladys McPhee, visiting teachers' message leader; Margaret LeRoy, librarian; Ragnhild Broberg, chorister; Aletta Sorenson, work director; Connie Raymond, theology leader; Ina Carlson, social science leader; Ella C. Richards, Magazine representative; Evelyn Hansen, organist. March 17, 1942. RELIEF SOCIETY OF FAIRMOUNT WARD, SAN DIEGO STAKE, TAKEN AT CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION This ward Relief Society was honored on this occasion by the presence of Stake President _ Wallace Johnson and Bishop John Morse. Alberta Morse is president of this ward Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD (3) The Album. Accompanying are pictures representative of the three scenes and also the chorus of Singing Mothers which participated in the pageant under the direction of Chorister Leona Lines assisted by Organist Levene Ferrin. Logan Stake (Logan, Utah) HE Logan Seventh Ward Relief Society celebrated the centennial on March 17 with a program consisting of several features. First, was the presentation of the cantata, "Resurrection Morning," by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Ragnhild Broberg. The general presidents of Relief Society and the past presidents of the Seventh Ward Relief Society were honored at a candlelighting ceremony. A dance and floor show followed, and _ refreshments Pieced PAINTING OF FIRST MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY WHICH HANGS IN RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM OF LOGAN SEVENTH WARD, LOGAN STAKE Photographed with the picture are the executive officers of the Seventh Ward Relief Society—left to mght, Luella R. Lear, secretary; Alice W. Skanchy, second counselor; Laura A. Watkins, president; Mary M. Larsen, first counselor; and the artist, Irene T. Fletcher, who painted the mural. Were served to the 300 guests in attendance. All decorations were in Relief Society colors. The Seventh Ward Relief Society is the proud possessor of a large mural, measuring three and one-half feet by seven feet, which hangs in the Relief Society room, and is believed to be the only one of its kind. This picture was painted by Irene T. Fletcher, a talented member of the Seventh: Ward Relief Society who has a large family and is one of the activity directors for the monthly work meeting of Relief Society. 'This mural depicts the organization meeting of Relief Society in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. A reproduction of the painting appears in the accompanying picture which also shows the executive officers of the Seventh Ward Relief Society and the artist. Sheology and Sestimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage Chapter 12 Spiritual Gifts (Tuesday, January 5, 1943) _ Condensation of Chapter 12 of Articles of Faith, by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) Spiritual Gifts Characteristic of the Church It is characteristic of the ways of God that he manifests His power by the bestowal of a variety of enabling graces, which are properly called gifts of the spirit. Whenever the power of Priesthood has operated through an organized Church on the earth, the members have been strengthened in their faith and otherwise blessed by the possession of spiritual gifts. 'The existence of these spiritual powers is one of the essential characteristics of the Church; where they are not, the Priesthood of God does not operate.... And behold I (Mormon) say unto you he (God) changeth not; if so he would cease to be God; and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miracles. And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and depart from the tight way, and know not the God in whom they should trust. (Mormon 9:19-20; see also Moroni 7:35-37) Page 724 Nature of Spiritual Gifts The gifts here spoken of are essentially endowments of power and authority, through which the purposes of God are accomplished. These gifts have been promised of the Lord unto those who believe on His name, and are to follow obedience to the requirements of the Gospel "... And that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do;..." (Doctrine and Covenants 46:8-9) Miracles are commonly regarded as qccurrences in opposition to the laws of nature. Such a conception is erroneous, for the laws of nature are inviolable. All miracles are accomplished through the operation of the laws of nature, which are the laws of God. (See Jesus The Christ, LESSON DEPARTMENT "Miracles," pp. 147, 151) Any enumeration of the Gifts of the Spirit cannot be made complete by man, yet the more common have 'been specified by inspired writers and by the word of revelation. (Doctrine and Covenants 46:13-33) Mentioned among these are: the gift of tongues and interpretation, the gift of healing, visions, dreams, the gift of prophecy, and revelation. For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby.... And all these gifts come from God, for the benefit of the children of God. (Doctrine and Covenants 46;11- 12, 26) The Testimony of Miracles Since scriptures aver that spiritual powers of the baser sort have wrought miracles, to be valid as a testimony 725 of truth, miracles must be wrought in the name of Jesus Christ, and to His honor in furtherance of the plan of salvation. Imitations of Spiritual Gifts Satan has shown himself to be a skilful imitator (see Exodus 7, 8 for the miracles of the magicians of Egypt). 'The development of the healing gift in the Church today is imitated by the varied faith cures and their numerous modifications. Spiritual Gifts in the Church Today The Latter-day Saints claim to possess within the Church all the sign-gifts promised as the heritage of the believer. And ye must give thanks unto God in the Spirit for whatsoever blessing ye are blessed with. And ye must practice virtue and holiness before me continually. Even so. Amen. (Doctrine and Covenants 46:32, 33) LESSON PLAN Article 7—"We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc." Lesson Aims: 1. To heighten one's appreciation of the spiritual gifts bestowed by the Father upon His children. 2. To acquire an intense desire to live in such a way that some of these spiritual gifts will be granted to each. (The above aims should be thoroughly understood by each member of the class as well as by the class leader. The lesson should be studied and taught with a view toward having each member try to aid in their accomplishment, so far as his own appreciation and his own desires are concerned. The teaching aids for this lesson, from the presentation of the aims to the final question, are intended to assist in an accomplishment of these objectives for each individual in the class. The class leader might have the aims written on a blackboard before the class, and either read them herself to the class or have a member read them. Comments from the class may be asked for, in order that the leaders may see if they are thoroughly understood by all.) Introduction (The following introduction should be "lectured'""—not read—to the class in an interesting but informal manner by the class leader. She may supplement it with similar material, or her own comments, if she so desires. ) Such things as visions, miracles, been characteristics of the true and prophecy are and always have church, and they are given to those 726 who are faithful and who seek diligently after spiritual guidance and knowledge. Seldom are they given indiscriminately to those who cannot honestly and effectively abide such a gift. Even though it is promised that in the latter days God's Spirit shall be poured out upon all flesh, yet the direct recipients of His Spirit will be those who are faithful and persistent in the proper use of their intelligence, because it is the laws of faith and industry upon which such blessings are predicated. The admonition that "Faith without works is dead" also is pertinent to this situation. "Today many persons think of the flying of the airplane, the transmission of speech by radio, and especi- "ally the seeing of persons by television as being truly miraculous. Sometimes the word is applied to that which is thought to be natural in every way but yet is understood by the person speaking." However, Dr. James E. Talmage in Jesus the Christ says: "We arbitrarily classify as miracles only such phenomena as are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 unusual, special, transitory, or wrought by an agency beyond man's control." As members of a church which has adopted as one of its Articles of Faith, a belief in the gifts of vision, prophecy, healing, et cetera, it is especially fitting that each member appreciate such gifts, and so desire to be the possessor of some of them that he will be both faithful enough and diligent enough to warrant their being bestowed upon him. "... The soul who regards the miracle in its true nature as but one element of the system of Christ, possessing value as a positive criterion only as it is associated with the numerous other characteristics of the Church, will not be deceived." 'God will perform miracles for His children and under the hands of His priesthood if the requests are abounding in faith and genuine in purpose.. This may be a source of great help," for "Among believers they are to serve for encouragement and as incentives to higher communion with the Spirit." Questions and Exercises A. Questions The following questions are designed to aid the class leader in accomplishing the aims of the lesson by the discussion method of teaching: 1. Of what significance to our belief in _the unchangeability of God's. Behavior, is Mormon's declaration that miracles will not cease so long as there is left one man upon the earth to be saved? 2. In what way is it wise for believers in God to accept as the chief purpose of miracles, their power of continued enlightenment and comfort, an evidence of Divine favor? 3. Let several class members name a modern invention or discovery that they consider in the nature of a miracle, and give reasons why it is so regarded by them. 4. How might the following quotation from Talmage help one to understand how faith and diligence contribute to performance of miracles? "May we not believe that when Israel encompassed Jericho, the captain of the Lord's host and his heavenly train were there, and that before their supermortal agency, sustained by the faith and obedience of the human army, the walls were leveled."" (Read from the Bible, in the Book of Joshua 5:13-14.) 5. Of the following gifts treated in the textbook, which would you prefer to re- LESSON DEPARTMENT ceive? Give reasons for your choice. (1) Ability to speak in tongues and to interpret such languages (2) Power of healing (3) Faith to be healed (4) Receiving of visions and dreams (5) Spirit of prophecy and revelation (6) Power to perform miracles (7) Opportunity to see miracles performed 6. What may one do, so far as faith and diligence are concerned, in order to murtit this gift? 7. Let each relate (in as interesting a manner as possible) an occurrence in which a spiritual gift was exercised. 8. Discuss: "For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracles among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until after their faith." (Ether 12:12) 9. How might one distinguish between miracles performed through faith and diligence. And those performed otherwise? B. Exercises The exercises may be carried out by the teachers and class members during the month between the theology lessons. This will help them to translate into active practice the appreciations for and the desires to 727 receive spiritual gifts, which have been acquired from this lesson. 'The exercises need not be discussed in class unless the class especially wants to discuss them. In assigning them, the class leader may dictate them to the class toward the end of the period, or she may have them on a blackboard for the class to copy. Perhaps it is possible in some instances to have typed or mimeographed copies ready to give to the class. 1. Read one of the Gospels (Matthew, Mark. Luke, or John) and make a list of all the miracles which were performed by Jesus or His disciples. Tell how faith and industry weie concerned in each. 2. Visit with one or several members of the class, and keep the conversations directed toward incidents concerned with the beliefs as expressed in the seventh Article of Faith. Try to decide in each case discussed how faith and diligence contributed to the bestowal upon the person of the particular gift in question. References Talmage, James E., Jesus the Christ, pp. 147-151. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks, PP. 247-258. A Visiting Sleachers. Messages to the Home Lesson 4 Interest in Missionary Work as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, January 5, 1943) HE responsibility of spreading a knowledge of the Restored Gospel throughout the world was placed very early upon the members of the Church, "Lift up your voices and spare not," the Lord said in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith given in February 1831, when the Church was not yet one year old. "Call up- 728 on the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord;" (Doctrine and Covenants 43:20) Thus we are told not only to preach the Gospel, but we are informed why we should do so, that everyone may have the opportunities of revealed truth. Anciently the disciples of Christ were required to "preach the Gospel to every creature." Early in this dispensation, the machinery was set up by means of which the Restored Gospel might be made known to mankind. It is the missionary system of the Church. When missionaries are called, they have the privilege of refusing if they choose. Rarely, though, does one refuse to heed a call to preach the Gospel. The missionary system has grown very gradually as the Church has increased in membership. During recent years more than two thousand men and women have been kept in the field at one time. Then there is the home mission. Within the stakes and wards of the Church, men and women are called to visit nonmembers of the Church with a view to interesting them in the message of the Gospel. This system is growing yearly, and brings thousands every year into the Church. There 'is also a vast auxiliary missionary work going on in our Church. It is the missionary work done on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 Temple Square, in Salt Lake City, Utah, which includes the Tabernacle Choir, the Tabernacle Organ, and the group of guides who show tourists around the grounds and who explain the Gospel to them. The various phases of missionary work carried on at Hill Cumorah are also interesting people in our religion and are opening the way for the regular missionaries. We can express our faith in the Gospel by aiding this missionary work whenever and wherever there is opportunity to do so. We can respond to any call that may be made of us to spread the Gospel at home or abroad. We can individually help to support those who may be called, by gifts of money or by encouraging them in some other manner. But the most effective way of expressing our faith in the Gospel is to live it, so that, as Jesus put it, "others, seeing our good works, may glorify our Father which is in heayen." If the Gospel makes us better and happier, others who observe this will be led to investigate it, with a view to making their lives better and happier. Discussion 1. In what very effective way are we all missionaries in our daily lives?. 2. Give some instances of the results of missionary work, either from your own experience or from the experience of others. 3. How did our missionary system affect the development of Western America? —-=— ll LESSON DEPARTMENT 729 Work-and-Business New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 3 Eliminate Household Wastes (Tuesday, December 8, 1942) "f ASTE not, want not." This axiom taught and, of necessity, practiced by our grandmothers, can well be revived and used to advantage today. There is no place for waste in wartime America. It is not only patriotic to save, but smart and thrifty as well. One need only to look around and see bulging garbage cans and boxes to realize the vast amount of waste there is. Other visible evidence may be found in closets, attics, basements, garages, farmyards, barns, sheds, etc. Hidden waste lurks in the refrigerator, in the kitchen sink, on the rack behind the door, under the rug, or in the grain bin. Spoilage of food, due to bacteria, yeasts, and molds, and destruction of clothing and fabrics, due to moths and embedded dirt, alone cost the nation's families many hundreds of dollars each year. Added to these are the work of ants, termites, mice, _ rats, rust, acids, water, fire, etc. To clear the deck and discard all the unused things does not mean to waste them. What is outmoded in one household may be used advantageously in another. 'There are agencies in every community that can utilize almost every commodity. However, to save to the point of wasting is not good economy. Unusable articles should be destroyed, otherwise they waste space as well as time and effort in handling. Old papers and rags, especially those used with oils or cleaning materials, may cause spontaneous combustion which in turn may cause great waste by fire. They are best cared for in covered tin containers. Speaking of tin, the small-sized, rustproof cans from which soup, vegetables, etc., have been used, can be reused for jelly, marmalade, or molds for various kinds of food. Care should be taken when the can is opened the first time that no rough edges remain to injure the hands. In some places the Government has asked that all tin cans be saved for reconditioning. Out of control, water, so vitally needed in many places, may go to. Waste or may be the means of causing extensive waste. The dripping of the water in leaky plumbing tends to wear away the seat and other parts of faucets and pipes to the extent that replacement becomes necessary. Overflowing toilets and clogging of wash bowls cause damage and waste to floors, linoleum, wallpaper, etc., all of which could be avoided by minor precaution. Since at the present time labor is at a premium, the housewife, once shown, can easily learn to replace old washers on faucets and mend leaks in hose or pipes. A piece of adhesive tape and a ten cent clamp can be used satisfactorily in an emergency. Drain pipes and traps can be kept clean if at regular intervals they are flushed out with a hose attached to the hot water tap turned on full force. Care should be taken in the use of acids, chemicals, or commercial preparations in cleaning plumbing fixtures; some of them mix readily with the grease and form soap which hardens and causes more trouble. The enamel finish on sinks, wash bowls, stoves, and refrigerators will be much marred if such things as lemon or grapefruit juice, Sani-Flush, fingernail polish, or paint remover are spilled on them. Kerosene may remove dirt and waste without harm to plumbing fixtures, clothing, and other household articles. Oil stoves or kerosene lamps should never be refilled while lighted as serious waste of life and property have resulted from such careless action. A GOVERNMENT report shows that as high as 28 percent of the food bought by American families is wasted. This large amount, lost - through ignorance or carelessness, could well feed many families. In order to prevent food spoilage, it is important to have the proper kind of storage or protection. Most foods can be protected by these three general kinds of storage—dry, moistcool, and refrigerated. 'To economically and skillfully handle, prepare, and use foods is a challenge to any housewife. 'Too large, unpalatable, 'unattractive servings contribute to a high percent of waste. 'Two smaller servings are more appetizing as well as more economical. It is best not to plan to have too many leftovers, especially vegetables. But there are many ways of utilizing leftovers where necessary. Small portions of vegetables or meats may be made into good salad or creamed dishes. Molded, cooked cereals, fried and served with syrup or fruit sauce make a nourishing and tasty breakfast or luncheon dish. Sour milk or cream makes delicious waffles, gingerbread, salad dressing, or spice cake. Dried crusts and slices of bread or stale rolls can be steamed or sprinkled with water and heated in the oven, or they may be ground and used in various kinds of puddings, escaloped or casserole dishes. Stale cake may be crumbed or steamed and served with fruit or vanilla sauce. Grated or chopped bits of hard cheese can be used in sandwich fillings, cream sauce, salads, or escaloped dishes. According to some experts, American housewives have offended greatly in the waste of cooking fat. The Government has now asked them to save it for use in making glycerine from which explosives and other war materials are made. Glycerine is used in making many other household things, such as lotions, soap, cosmetics, antiseptics, and food flavoring. Fats and oils can be clarified, so they may be used for cooking, in various ways. Water or raw potatoes added to the cold fat and heated slowly to a moderate temperature for fifteen to twenty minutes, then strained through fine cloth will remove objectionable odors, flavors, or: color. Too high temperature (the smoking point) decomposes some fats, especially butter and margarine, and causes them to become rancid more quickly. If all kinds of fats are used for cooking, each kind should be kept in individual containers and used according to the 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT flavor desired. If fat is salvaged for Government use, all kinds may be put together. The ones of higher melting point mixed with those of lower melting point make the whole more compact and easier to handle. Soap, another vital article, should be conserved. Small bits can be made into a jelly by dissolving in boiling water, or they may be put into a soap shaker and used for dish washing or hand laundering. "I will waste nothing." 'This part of the Consumer's Pledge, if seriously followed by every household, would save many hundreds of dollars, much 731 time and energy, and make happier people. Questions for Discussion 1. Have class members come prepared to discuss methods they have used to save and conserve in the home. 2. Name all the ways you can in which food may be wasted. 3. What agencies in your community assist in the salvage of commodities no longer of use in the home? 4. How could members of the Relief Society work together to salvage materials for which they have no further personal use? See "Salvage For Victory Program," Relief Society Magazine, August 1942, p. 553. Te [Oram The Bible As Literature Lesson 4 Types of Literature in the Bible—Prose (Tuesday, January 19, 1943) Objective: To recognize some of the difficulties accompanying the literary study of the Bible and to consider literary types in the Bible. Lesson Topics 1. Difficulties 2. Types 3. Bible prose Difficulties to be Met It is very important for class leaders and members to keep constantly in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature. This can obviate one natural difficulty— that of recurring questions regarding theological matters which would be considered in a religious study. Studying the Bible as literature will naturally make its spiritual values more easily understood and appreciated, but that is not the chief concern in these lessons. As literature alone, the Bible has no peer. Doctor Moulton says, "The intrinsic worth of the Old Testament is second to none of the world's great literatures. Moreover it has, in common with the literature of Greece and Rome, been the main factor in the development of our modern prose and poetty. For the English speaking people no liberal education will be complete nn; | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 in which classical and Biblical literatures do not stand side by side." Lyman Abbott discusses two chief difficulties confronting the student accustomed to considering the Bible from the theological point of view. The first is that it seems to the student irreverent and inconsistent with any theory of inspiration to think of the Bible as mere literature. He, of necessity, must change his attitude of mind. His next difficulty is the problem of knowing "what is wholly true, what only partially true, what is the Word of God, and what the human husk which contains it." Mr. Abbott explains that the first difficulty is a product of intellectual habits which have come down to us from the Puritans who were very prosaic and looked with suspicion upon poetry and fiction, for they confounded fact with truth and thought nothing could be true which was not 'fact. The Puritans condemned all novels, tales, and dramas as dangerous, if not vicious, and could not imagine that the Bible contained any such elements of peril. The Bible, if we regard what it says about itself, abolishes the other difficulty. The Great Book tells us that it is a hidden treasure and that the reader must search for the treasure and separate the gold from the alloy. Mr. Abbott says, "A revelation of truth which exempted us from toil and research and released us from intellectual and moral responsibility would be no revelation at all." | | | Doctor Moulton explains difficulties of another kind which have beset the literary student. He says literature implies something more than correct form and charm of diction. It is made up of a great variety of forms, such as lyrics, dramas, essays, and stories. The discrimination of such forms is essential, not only for the full force, but even for the interpretation of a literary work. If a person should read a drama under the impression that he was reading an essay, he would fail to get the significance of what he was reading. This is exactly the kind of thing that happened in connection with the Bible. We are aware that the scriptures _ date back to a time in which the art of manuscript writing was not highly developed. At that time "manuscripts scarcely divided words and sentences, much less indicated distinctions between prose and verse, between one meter and another, between speeches in dialogue or even the simplest divisions in straightforward prose." The Biblical materials were, in short, preserved in manuscripts in which all literary forms looked alike. "Tt appears," Doctor Moulton continues, "that the form of our modern Bibles has been given to them, not by the sacred writers themselves, but by those who had charge of the scriptures at the time when manuscripts began to indicate differences of form. These writers happened to be men who cared nothing about literary form, but who regarded the Bible as material for commentary. The form such commentaries would give to the Scriptures would naturally be that of texts for comment. So it was in the form of numbered texts or verses that the Bible came down to our translators. Even the most elementary distinction of form, that between prose and verse, was LESSON DEPARTMENT not discovered in relation to the Hebrew Scriptures until more than a century after the King James' Version had been completed." It is a fact that most of the Bibles used today are still in this medieval form. Even though they may be translated correctly, they. Still "remain a double misrepresentation of the sacred original, since they ignore, on the one hand, the literary varieties in form and, on the other hand, they preserve in their chapters and verses a structure which is alien to the Bible itself and is the creation of medieval commentators." To note the difference between these early formless manuscripts and the rearrangement of the material by the commentators, then between these and Doctor Moulton's Modern Readers' Bible or Mr. Bates' later literary version is impressive. (Doctor Moulton illustrates some of these differences in the preface to his Bible and in chapter I of his World Literature.) It was this "'accident of tradition" which has made the Bible unnecessarily obscure and robbed it of the power to give the pleasure it should give as great literature. In the form found in the ordinary Bible the unit is the sentence, whereas in literature the unit is a drama, a short story, an essay, or a lyric. 'Doctor Moulton points out two things that are necessary to the realization of the Bible as literature in the truest sense. First, it must. Be printed in its complete literary structure. Dialogue must appear as dialogue, with distinctions of speeches and names of speakers; that is, the different types must be distinguished. The student must analyze the work 733 as he would any other work of literary art, regarding it as a whole while examining the mutual relations of its parts. Second, there must be a feeling always "'after that unity which is the soul of a work of art." Only when all this is done can the Bible take its proper place among the literatures of the world. Types of Literature in the Bible The Bible contains, as mentioned before, practically all the types of literature. For instance, the prose of the Bible includes history, short stories, idyls, prophetic discourse, philosophy, essays, orations, letters, etc. The poetry includes lyrics, dramas, and narrative poems, some of which approach the epic. 'The Bible, as described in an earlier lesson, is an historic framework—a connective tissue holding together the higher literary forms just mentioned. It is in these higher forms that we get the life and spirit of the whole. History tells us what men have done. Literature goes a step farther and tells us how they have felt about it. Literature gives an autobiography of the inner life of men—of his ambitions, ideals, struggles, frustrations, and attainments. The Bible has been called the autobiography of a chosen people. An autobiography reveals both objective and subjective phases of the writer's life. The Old Testament is the history of the people of Israel presented by itself. 'The New Testament is the history of the Primitive Church presented by itself. It is as though the children of Israel rather late in their history finally fully realized their sacred mission and 734 set themselves to think out the successive stages in their development, inserting in the account of each of these epochs, the stories, songs, dramas, and so on, which had originated in each stage. The New Testament developed in much the same way. Probably when the followers of Christ found oral narrations of the great events in the Master's life beginning to weaken, they undertook to construct a narrative from testimonies of eyewitnesses and others to give a permanent and unified record of the whole ministry. This would include successive sayings, letters, sermons, and so on. (The literary work of the daughters of Mormon pioneers employs a very similar method.) The Prose of the Bible Saintsbury, the critic, speaking of a group of literary masters says: "Great as they are, they cannot approach, as writers of prose, the company of scholarly divines who produced what is probably the greatest prose work in any language—the Authorized: Version of the Bible in English." Much of the best prose in the English language has been written by authors saturated not only with the spirit but with the language of the Bible. John Ruskin, perhaps the greatest master in the Victorian period of pure, idiomatic, vigorous and eloquent English prose, ascribes his excellence to the fact that his mother required him in childhood to commit to memory and to repeat to her over and over again many passages of the Bible. Later lessons will consider some of the prose masterpieces of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 Bible. At this point but a few excerpts can be given to illustrate its excellence. — The well-known reply of Ruth to Naomi comes to mind at once as an illustration of tenderness and devotion expressed in faultless prose closely bordering poetry: And Ruth said, "Entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, 1 will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my god: Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me." The Book of Ruth is excellent prose not solely because of its diction and phrasing, but also because of its plot, character delineation, and other characteristics which it shares with good stories. The sayings of Jesus are excellent examples of choice prose. They are made vivid and impressive by means of exact diction and _ figurative speech, as in the following: The foxes have holes and the birds of the heaven have nests, but the son of man hath not where to lay his head. The Bible is a priceless storehouse of such excellent writing. Lesson Helps 1. Bring to class The Modern Readers' Bible or World Literature by Richard Green Moulton and allow the members to see the illustrations of the early Bible texts and to compare them with the form in the Modern Readers' Bible or The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature, by Bates. 2. Find. Illustrations in the Bible to show that the literary form makes the meaning and spiritual significance more clear than the regular form does. (Compare, for instance, "Song of Songs' in the Moulton or Bates book with the King LESSON DEPARTMENT James Version.) 3. Illustrate some of the prose types in the Bible by reading a short narrative, a brief essay, a letter, etc., first defining each type and pointing out its characteristics. 4. Memorize favorite passages. References Bates, Ernest S., The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature. McAffee, The Greatest English Classic. 735 Fifield, S. Wendell, How to Use the Bible. Moulton, The Modern Readers' Bible. Moulton, World Literature. Thomas, John M., and Espenshad, A., Bible Readings. Beveridge, Albert J., The Bible as Good Reading. Knox, Raymond C., Knowing the Bible. Giddard, Grace H., and Baldwin, D. M., Types of Literature in the Old Testament. Os "Seand Sasamec What "America" Means Lesson 3 The Declaration of Independence (Tuesday, January 26, 1943) The foundation of our empire was one not laid in the gloomy age of ignorance and superstition; but at an epoch when the rights of mankind were better understood and more clearly defined than at any former period—George Washington. The Americans are the first people whom Heaven has favored with an opportunity of deliberating upon, and choosing the forms of government under which they should live.—John Jay, tirst Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. IKE all great documents of religious and political history, the Declaration of Independence was an expression of the ideals of liberty which the American people had come to believe as a result of their lives in this new land. It embodied in sentence and phrase principles of government which were a contribution to the world's political and civic life, for it was a select people who came from England to America in the seventeenth century. The Puritans and Quakers and Church of England members were among the best class of the English people. Coming from a district known as East Anglia, which was one of the intellectual centers of England, they were a strong-minded, thoughtful, self-controlled, and self-sacrificing people, and these deep religious and moral qualities gave a wholesome sanction to all kinds of honest labor and institutions. Women came to be freer; they had a higher degree of education than the women of the Old World. Class distinctions were abolished. Birth and money meant little in going into the wilderness to redeem the soil. It was the character of the people that counted. The forefathers of Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, John and Samuel Adams, James Madison, Benjamin Franklin, and the many other great 736 characters at that time developed unusual courage and determination, strong convictions, and strong initiative. When the day of the struggle for existence was over, they began to assert themselves in new ways of life and to mold a new system of education and civic endeavor that would eventually become the warp and woof of a _ new government. The Declaration of Independence was passed by the second Continental Congress on July 4, 1776. The Revolutionary War had already begun, and General George Washington had the year before taken command of the newly organized American Army. A statement in the immortal document is one of the most significant thoughts of our political history. It reads: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal and are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights among which are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness; that to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." We have in this sentence the fundamental idea of government which has come to be one of America's distinct contributions _ to the world. Out of it grew the very spirit and meaning of the Constitution of the United States, for it embodies the right of the people to govern themselves, both collectively and individually. When Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence he realized that true democracy was conducive to individual opportunity, which gave every person freedom to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 develop the full measure of his be- 'ing. Our government was instituted to preserve and protect that equality. It did not mean that it would give privileges to some and deny them to others, but all—both men and women—were to be free to work out their destinies as God would have them do. George Eliot once said: "Not God himself can make man's best without best men to help Him." So with government. Men must be trained to live their best, and this' is another phase of the functions of democracy. Such thoughts were in the minds of those men who gave their lives and honor for the immortal Declaration. 'They believed then as men believe today, the significant words of Chief Justice Russell of England: Civilization is not dominion, wealth, material luxury; nay not even a great literature and wide-spread education, good though these things be. Its true signs are thought for the poor and suffering, chivaltous regard and respect for women, the frank recognition for human brotherhood, irrespective of color or nation or religion, the love of ordered freedom, abhorrence of what is mean and cruel, and ceaseless devotion to the claims of justice. The Declaration of Independence should be read, for it gives better than anything else the ideals of the. Fathers of our Government. The truths written into the document are the thoughts that had been developed during our colonial history, and were fundamental to the political. Opinions of the colonies. It declared that the Thirteen States were free and independent states, and for this principle of freedom, the colonists fought. One hundred and fifty years ago, The Abbe Genty, a distinguished French schol- LESSON DEPARTMENT ar, published an essay on the "Results of the Discovery of America by Europe." At the end of his paper, he says: "The Independence of the Anglo-Americans, as expressed in their immortal Declaration of 1776, is the event most likely to accelerate the revolution which is to renew the happiness of the world. In the bosom of this new Nation are the treasures which are to renew the world." He named the relief to crowded Europe as one of the blessings which are to come to mankind. The emancipation of slaves, the end of conquest, universal peace, the conversion of the world to Christianity are others, for America acclaims all the inhabitants of the world as children of God. The closing paragraph again shows the faith of the delegates in the high civic rights common to the people. We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in General Congress Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by authority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor. The Declaration of Independence was not a form of government, but a statement of grievances against the mother country, because of unjust 737 laws passed by Parliament regulating trade, commerce, and taxes in colonial America. After the signing of the Declaration by the members of the Continental Congress, a constitution was proposed for a central government, but it was not until 1781 that Congress adopted what was known as the Articles of Confederation, which failed to bring about a unity of the colonies. "The founders of the Republic," says Beck, "could only learn from their errors, but it is their great merit that they had the ability to profit in the stern school of experience, of which Benjamin Franklin said, 'is a dear school, but fools will learn in no other." Historians hold that two great circumstances saved the infant nation. One was the invaluable aid of France through such men as Lafayette, and the money that was furnished by France, and the other was the personality of George Washington. In the French Alliance, Washington saw the power of Providence. In his order at Valley Forge, celebrating the Alliance, he said: "It having pleased the Almighty Ruler of the Universe to defend the Cause of the United States, and finally to raise us up a powerful friend among the princes of the earth, to establish our liberty and independence upon a lasting foundation, it becomes us to set apart a day for gratefully acknowledging the divine goodness, and celebrating the important event, which we owe to His divine interposition." The Declaration of Independence embodies the political philosophy of America and is fundamentally the belief in the brotherhood of man. It behooves us, therefore, to heed the 738 advice of Abraham Lincoln, when he said: "I charge you to drop every paltry and insignificant thought for any man's success. It is nothing.... But do not destroy that immortal emblem of humanity—The Declaration of American Independence." In a letter written by Thomas Jefferson to _ James Madison, August 30, 1823, he says: "I pray God that its principles will be eternal." Questions and Subjects for Discussion 1. Give all the reasons you can why the American colonists wanted to be free from England. (Naturally, the new country in time gave the people new ideas and new tasks. ) 2. Have some one read aloud the first part of the Declaration and also the last paragraph. What is impressive in them? 3. Why did the colonists hesitate in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 sanctioning the Declaration? 4. Read something about the personale of the Congress which drew up and passed the Declaration. Particularly read up on the life of Thomas Jefferson. 5. The original draft of the Declaration is in the National Library in Washington, D. C. For a few cents, the librarian will send you a facsimile copy, oF will tell you how to obtain one. References Becker, Carl, The Revolution Fiske, John, The American Revolution Van Tyne, C. H., The American Revolution Van Tyne, C. H., The Cause of the War of Independence Channing, Edward, History of the United States Muzzey, David S., Thomas Jefferson Greene, E. B., Foundations of American Nationality (Any one-volume history of the United States will be helpful to you.) Eve of the % General Presidents of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. ) Lesson 3 Zina D. Huntington Young Third Relief Society President (Tuesday, January 26, 1943) O Mormon woman has been more beloved than Zina D. Huntington Young, familiarly known throughout the Church as "Aunt Zina," a gentle, soft-spoken person, gifted with great faith and spiritual power. She was born of distinguished ancestry, January 21, 1821, in Watertown, New York. At fourteen she was baptized into the Church, and the same year received the gift of tongues. -In Kirtland the gift of interpretation of tongues came to her. She never studied a foreign language, yet she rendered hymns and prayers given in tongues in the most musical and beautiful of poetic English. She also spoke with ease and eloquence, LESSON DEPARTMENT and was noted for the beautiful and moving prayers she uttered. In the ' sickroom, where she exercised her faith as well as her unusual ability to nurse, her presence was a benediction, After joining the Church, the Huntington family moved to Kirtland, Ohio, thence to Far West, Missouri, from there to Quincy, Illinois, and then in 1839 to Nauvoo, Illinois. In each place they suffered the usual persecutions of the Saints. In Nauvoo, father, mother, Zina, and her brother Oliver, were all prostrate with chills and fever. There was only twelve-year-old John to take care of them. Hundreds of others were lying ill in tents and wagons. Emma Smith and the Prophet Joseph himself came to render assistance to the Huntingtons, and later sent their foster daughter to help them. Zina's mother died, and only two of the family were able to attend the burial. Of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, Zina wrote: "My pen _ cannot utter my grief.... But after a while a change came, as though the released spirits of the departed (the Prophet and the Patriarch) sought to comfort us in that hour of dreadful bereavement." In her journal she described another important historical event: "When the Twelve teturned, the mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham. When I approached the stand, President Young was speaking. It was the voice of Joseph Smith, not that of Brigham Young. His very person was changed.... All witnessed the transfiguration...." In Nauvoo, Zina became a member of the Relief Society. With her tenderness and gentle touch, she 739 soothed the sick. With her gift of understanding and ability to enter into the feelings of others with sympathy and delicacy, she comforted the distressed. Even before the organization of Relief Society, Zina was familiar with the ways of charity, for she had often driven around Kirtland with her mother, who, self-appointed, looked up the needy and suffering and asked the more prosperous for what the poor, required, then distributed what she received. While quite young, Zina Huntington married Henry Jacobs and bore him two sons, Zebulon and Chariton. In February 1846, she left Nauvoo and went to Mount Pisgah where so many people were dying that it was almost impossible to bury them. For lack of coffins, many were laid away in their burial clothes, with only split logs at the bottom of the graves and brush at the sides. Own father died here, and she was left alone with her small sons. Mr. Jacobs had gone East rather than West, and did not plan to return. Zina went on to Winter Quarters. Brigham Young and his company left for the West. The women remaining behind felt deep anxiety because of wolves and Indians and other threats, and they held frequent prayer meetings and exerted all their faith for the pioneer band. Here Zina, with her rare spiritual gifts and her ability to inspire or revive faith in the hearts of others, was a great help. "Aunt Zina" married Brigham Young, and in Utah lived first in the primitive "log row" on his estate, then, later, in the Lion House. She bore him one child, Zina, but she took into her pleasant apartment her husband's four children by Mrs. Zina's - 740 Clarissa Chase Young and reared them as her own with tender affection. She kept the home atmosphere pleasant and serene. Like other pioneer women, "Aunt Zina" made her own candles, soap, molasses; dried her fruits; spun, knitted, dyed and wove cloth, and made clothing. She was an early riser and a quiet, efficient worker who --accomplished much. She took the course in nursing and midwifery taught by Dr. Willard Richards in the very early days of Deseret, and went often to the sick, taking not only her practical knowledge, but likewise her gifts of faith and healing. She seemed to understand the natures and dispositions of her patients, as well as their symptoms, so thoroughly that it is said doctors frequently consulted her regarding those who were ill. Because of her wisdom and sympathy and kindly spirit, she was often referred to as "Zina the Comforter." Sister Young was also an. Able teacher. She taught pioneer children in school, and for more than forty years was a teacher in Sunday School, and after its organization she worked in Primary. She was a friend to the poor in all ways; no one could give alms more graciously, "Charity never faileth,"" was her watch-word, and this meant charity of the spirit as well as of the purse. ROM the first, "Aunt Zina" assisted Sister Eliza R. Snow in Relief Society work in Utah, and became her first counselor when Sister Snow was made president. 'Together they traveled by stagecoach, buckboard, or carriage, over frozen wastes or desert sands, to organize new branches of Relief Society or PrimaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1942 ty. In Southern Utah they traveled over a thousand miles by carriage and wagon, going to remote hamlets and villages through disagreeable country where, as sister Snow said, "the curse had not begun to be taken off." Sometimes they had to camp overnight in lonely and dangerous places. Once Sister Snow herself drove twenty-six miles over a fearful toad. Sometimes they held three meetings a day. However fatigued they might be, these two inspired women carried with them a faith and an uplifting influence. That transcended all bodily ills. The Saints, struggling against discouragements and bitter hardships in those faraway places, never forget their visits. In those meetings "Aunt Zina" frequently testified of the wonderful appearance and influence of the Prophet Joseph when he had spoken to the Relief Society members in Nauvoo of the destiny and power of women. In 1888, Sister Zina Young became general president of the Relief Society, and rapid advancement continued for the Society. In her life-: time she saw the organization grow from one branch to six hundred. In 1891, the Society affiliated with the National Council of Women, and in 1892 the Relief Society became an incorporated organization. Sister Eliza Snow once wrote in the Woman's Exponent that nothing was so important for Relief Society women as the building up of the kingdom of God. But practical es of pioneer life were a necespart of the building up of the tin iorns The people had to make themselves self-sustaining, and home industries were largely the means to that end. It was amazing what those LESSON DEPARTMENT already busy pioneer women did to start and encourage and make prosperous those same home industries. Regarding grain saving, in which activity "Aunt Zina" was an ardent worker, President John 'Taylor said, "If you women can... Succeed in saving wheat for an emergency, it will be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship that can occur." Like-. Wise the women showed wonderful organizing, executive, and business. Ability in their various other undertakings, such as straw manufacture, 'knitting of woolen goods, and many other enterprises. President Young was especially interested in the silk industry in Utah, for which great hopes were held, and in 1876 he set apart his wife Zina to supervise this work. She had charge of President Young's own large cocoonery and mulberry orchard, from which thousands of trees were transplanted throughout the state. As usual the Exponent was the means of communication. Sister Young asked everybody who had had experience in raising silkworms, to write the results of their experiments to the Woman's Exponent, so that all might reap the results of their experience. She also wrote instruci 741 tions and gave information and encouragement through the magazine. Zina Young attended National Suffrage Conventions in Omaha and Chicago, and in 1892 the World's Congress of Women, where she presided over a meeting conducted by the Relief Society, which was attended by many leading women of the Council. In the World Congress of Women Ministers, convened at the same time, she was invited to sit on the platform, and had the opportunity of explaining the Gospel to many influential and intelligent women. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, "Aunt Zina" was appointed to preside over the women. She died on August 28, 1901. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 115 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Relief Society Magazine, August 1915, P- 347; March 1921, pp. 130-136 Pictures Handbook of Relief Society, p. 108 Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Relief Society Magazine, August 1915, p. 344; March 1921, p. 128 RATIO NING (Concluded from page 709) points. Thus the consumer must decide which article of clothing he needs most. So we see that rationing is not a simple thing, but that it is the only way we have to get an equitable distribution of scarce goods. By proper compliance with the rationing program, every citizen can demonstrate his patriotism in times of total war. A pamphlet, "Recipes To Match Your Sugar Ration," and one entitled '"'Rationing Why and How," may be obtained from the General Office of the Relief Society, or from the Consumer Division, Office of Price Administration, Atlas Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. A WOMAN'S AWAKENING Hortense Spencer Andersen AMBITION In high achievement, flaming genius wrought From shapeless stone, with chisel dipped in life, A sculptured child, born from illusive thought, Where beauty, power, and charming grace ran rife. With curved contours this glowing marble stood Revealing clear-cut features in sublime Faint shades of light, within a moon-washed wood; Surrounded by blue rosemary and thyme. I stood enwrapped in deep humility And admiration for this splendid find. I marvelled at the eminent degree To which trained hands carved out this form designed. To emulate this skill, I thought I'd found A worthy aim to weave my life around. UNDERSTANDING Into my unskilled hands God gave a son, His bodily form perfected by His will, With muscle, nerve, and sinew here begun, And a quickened mind life's project to fulfill. Yet this fine structure clothes the embryo Of a man's emerging self... To challenge me To use, with skill, my gifts, and learn to know The lofty power of deathless artistry. To guard his form there is a daily need;. And here is that more impressionable than clay, A spirit, mind, and character to lead, Emotions, actions, moods, and choice to sway. To guide his restless will shall be my goal, To help unfold a great immortal soul. PRAYER Page 742 Today I kneel in prayer. This precious core Of a man's eternal being, here exposed To my impulsive touch—untried before— Will prove its worth, and leave my marks disclosed. Great sculptors say, it takes long, patient years Of study, work, and practice to set free The deft, resourceful eraftsmanship which gears The genius to artistic mastery, I have no time for practice, nor to err, So give me strength, and wisdom, God, I pray; Oh whet my tools of faith and love and prayer; Show me the work I must perform today. Forms carved in stone are worthy of man's esteem, But to mold great. Character is art supreme. FOR ENRICHMENT OF RELIEF SOCIETY LESSONS Story of the Bible (Hurlbut) 200 illustrations....$2.50 Through the Bible (Theodora WilsonWilson) 62 new, different pictures $2.50 Story of the Bible (Bowie) 21 new, beautiful PICTUTES un. Eeeee ene$1.95 Story of the Bible (Egermeier) Adapted for children __--$2.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street For service or repair of dz Electric So ppliances.. SEE YOUR ELECTRICAL DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. ATTENTION CHORISTERS "Messengers of Mercy" A Twelve Minute Cantata with Three Choruses SEESCALL" "THE MESSAGE" "THE CHALLENGE" Written for Singing Mothers in Three Parts by Minnie D. Warner and Gladys Rich Suitable for all Relief Society Programs Single copies 50 cents each Twelve or more copies 35 cents each Order From MINNIE D. WARNER "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- —you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job. Ww Ask for our "Bulletin of Information" L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Salt Lake City, Utah 846 20th St. P. O. Box 958 Ogden, Utah 2c Paid U. S. POSTAGE "SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 raat "A little knowledge is a dangerous thing... HE Relief Society has always taught its members thoroughly the lessons in right living which make for happiness and a full life. The fruits of these teachings—contentment, well-being, industry—are to be found on every hand in the homes and on the farms where Relief Society members live. Most people know what the principles of right living are; the Relief Society shows its members how to translate those principles into—LIVING. Similarly, as printers we feel that it is not enough to merely "follow copy" in the execution of an order; we believe it is part of the contract to serve minutely the best interest of our client, to give him full advantage of our craftsmen's skill in lay-out and typography and the other myriad details that make merely good printing OUTSTANDING PRINTING Call or write THE DESERET NEWS PRESS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah