Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart If you have a way of saving time, energy, or money, which has proved practicable, or, if you have found a way that has helped you in your home or family, write it up very briefly and send it to Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, at 931 Elm Avenue, Salt Lake City. One dollar will be given for every article published in the Magazine. Those who wish articles returned must enclose stamped, self-addressed envelope. There was no place in my clothes closet to install a rack in the usual way, so I took several nickel towel rods and attached them upside down on the under side of the shelf and ceiling. This makes a most convenient arrangement for clothes hangers. The rods are rigid and makes easy sliding and moving of hangers. When cooking a "boiled dinner,' several cheesecloth bags may be used, one for each kind of vegetable to be cooked. They keep the vegetable from being broken and are easily removed when the dinner is ready to serve. Put leftovers, such as vegetables, creamed fish or meats into popover bowls or small enamel cups. When needed they can easily be warmed by placing in a pan of hot water and one lid will cover them all. When the family is tired of fresh canned fruits, such as pears, peaches or apricoats, etc., or there are bits left over, they can be scalloped and delicious deserts made. Add sugar and spices desired, to fruit and cook a few minutes, add lemon juice and a little of the grated rind. Butter some bread crumbs. Place alternate layers of fruit and crumbs until baking pan is full, placing crumbs on top. Bake in moderate oven until well browned. Whipped cream or pudding sauce maybe served with it, if a little heavier desert is wanted. Sometimes children who do not like milk can be induced tc drink it by adding a little concentrated fruit syrup or cocoa. A speck of cinnamon, two or three drops of vanilla, a half teaspoon of sugar, added to a cup of milk may answer the purpose. One housewife who serves delicious grapefruit puts a table spoon of honey into each half of the fruit and let stand several hours in a cool place. 
 Every housekeeper who prepares Boston baked beans knows it requires at least five to six hours in a good oven to cook them. Every time during the winter that you prepare them try having a hot sterilized jar at hand when they are done. Fill the jar with beans and seal immediately. Set the sealed jar in a pan of 'hot water, cover and let the water boil around the jar for one hour. Remove from water and cool. They are ready for any emergency without extra trouble, save heating and are good for next summer's picnic. A signal honor has come to one of Utah's young women. Miss Helen Wixcey was elected president of the Association of Foreign Students of the University of Paris, France, at a meeting of that society held recently. Miss Carol Wolfe, of Baltimore was elected vice-president, and Signor Cesar d'Angels, of Rome, secretary and treasurer. The membership of the association is made up of stu- ' dents from England, DenMISS HELEN WIXCEY mark, Sweden, Norway, Russia, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Polland, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Japan, India, Egypt, Brazil, Mexico, Canada, Australia, Italy and Austria. Miss Wixcey is the daughter of W. T. And Mary Bouton Wixcey of Salt Lake City. Her great grandparents and grandparents were among the early Utah pioneers. She is the grand niece of Mrs. Louie B. Felt. As a student of the University of Utah she majored in modern languages, and in the summers spent her time at the University of Mexico City, and in the Spanish families of the Mexican villages of Southern Colorado. Last year she taught French and Spanish at the University Training school. Having been awarded the John R. Park scholarship, she left for Europe last June with a party conducted by Prof. W. A. Kerr of the University of Utah. It is interesting to know that Miss Wixcey is giving volunteer service in teaching at a Settlement house in Paris. We may well be proud of this honor, which indicates such ability in leadership, that has come to one of Utah's young women.