Dr. Albert Edward Winship This month marks the eightieth anniversary of the birth of Dr. Albert E. Winship, noted educator and editor of the Journal of Education. We are publishing in this issue of the Magazine a tribute in verse to him from Professor Alfred Osmond of the Brigham Young University. Last year Doctor Winship was the recipient of tributes from all parts of the United States. The Pennsylvania Teachers' Association presented him with a beautiful gold watch, and the National Education Association gave him an album with tributes from educators all over America. The educational fraternity has every reason to be grateful to Doctor Winship for what he has done in their behalf. Many communities are indebted to him for the whole-hearted manner in which he has championed their rights; yet we doubt if even Massachusetts, his native state, is more sincerely indebted to him than the state of Utah. Hei has never hesitated to speak boldly 'for Utah, and to extol the virtues of her community life and of her leaders. It was Doctor Winship, who said in one issue of the Journal of Education that Utah county alone had produced more artists and musicians than any other county of similar population in the United States. Doctor Winship has visited Utah many times. He first came through when the railroad made its advent into the valley, and was a member of the editorial party that crossed the continent in recognition of the fact. He has often related that the members EDITORIAL 81 of this noted party were the guests of President Brigham Young and that part of their entertainment consisted in a trip to American Fork canyon. Doctor Winship has been very generous to the Relief Society, both in spoken and written word. Not infrequently has he published paragraphs in relation to the work of the organization, and this year he has complimented the Magazine by copying three poems from local authors published in its columns, thus carrying the name of the Magazine everywhere that the Journal of Education is distributed. We congratulate Dr. Winship in having reached the ripe age of eighty, and wish him God speed as he journeys on through life, heartening and breathing a blessing on all with whom he comes in contact. Great Names February always suggests the names of the great to us, in America, in the main, because this month chances to mark 'the anniversary of the birth of both George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Yet any suggestion of men in their class is apt to arouse at any time a discussion of great men. In this respect it is interesting to note the distribution of people of talent in various parts of the world. If one were to visit the city cemetery of Vienna, he would find monuments there to Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Supe, and the great waltz king, Strauss. It is safe to say that no other cemetery in Europe or America is the resting place of so many musicians of note. When we were in the city of Vienna we met a gentleman who bewailed the fact that the Germans had not produced a greater number of scientists than they had. The man said, "Oh, I do envy the English, for not only have they given the world an unusual number of poets of the first order. But their country is the birthplace of Spencer, Tyndale, and Charles Darwin. We would remind our readers that the German people have given the world not only the great musicians buried in the cemetery at Vienna, but also Richard Wagner and Johann Sebastian Bach, not to name a goodly number of musicians of minor talent. Next to Germany in musical fame, Italy holds the record. Such composers as Verdi, Leoncavalli, and Puccini mark Italy as the home of much opera of the very first order. In addition to these noted names, Italy has given us an unusual number of great opera singers. We need only call to mind such names as Caruso, Scotti, Tetrazini, and Galli-Curci to prove this fact. Italy has produced many painters. In the period of time known as the 
 Italian Renaissance she produced more great painters than any other country in the world. Today she is probably surpassed only by France in the number of her painters and in the quality of their work. The French are a very versatile people, perhaps outclassing any other European nation today in the variety of their art output. An Englishman once said to me, "I know the moment I see the flowers on a woman's hat whether they have been made in France or England. If made in France the coloring is vastly superior to that produced in England." An engineer once remarked in my hearing that there is a finish about engineering instruments made in France that is peculiar to the French product. What we especially noticed when we were in Paris was the fact that that city has a number of very artistic bridges, and an unusual number of beautiful public buildings, perhaps a greater number than any other city on the continent. England is noted for writers, preachers, and statesmen, and in this particular she perhaps leads the world. This we believe to be true, despite the fact that France has certainly made a most enviable record in the number of authors of the first rank that she has produced., When we come to America, we find that she has led the world in great inventors. It was a common remark during the War that Europe must needs depend on America for someone who would be clever enough to invent a way to destroy submarine warfare, and in this particular America did not disappoint Europe, she did invent the way by which submarine warfare was overcome.