[Vol3 | February 1916 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in March. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. REBECCA. (Before this article is read, the account in the Bible should be carefully gone over. Genesis, chapters 24-27.) Rebecca is a character. A good many women, you know, are not. The same thing, for that matter, may be said of men. Rebecca is more than a name which you vainly strive to de- velop into a personality. The personality is already there, de- veloped before your eyes, and all you have to do is to see what is set before you —though sometimes you have to use a micro- scope and always your head. Drawn with the fewest possible — strokes an art known only to those old Bible writers — she stands out in bold relief, a woman of flesh and blood with the eternal values unchanged. Rebecca is, first of all, a woman of rare physical beauty. On two different occasions we are told that she is "fair to look — upon" once when she stands there at the well in all the glory of her young virginity, fresh, energetic, generous, and then again as she is set over against the fair daughters of the Philstines when she, a matron, goes with her husband to their country, and all unconsciously enamors the lustful king. The details of her life as given by the sacred writer, are few but tremendously significant. We first see her at the well when the aged servant of Abra- ham came wife-seeking for Isaac. She is a young woman, over- sowing with vitality, physical and spiritual. Out of the kindness of her heart she gives drink to the camels, too, although the stranger has asked drink only for himself. The conversation ended, she "runs," in the picturesque phrase of the Biblical nar- rative, to her mother and the household, to tell them of the new arrivals. She has courage and decision of character, for when her father and her mother hesitate about sending her to her future husband into a strange country and to a strange people, she im- mediately answers, "I will go!" 
 We see her next just before the birth of Esau and Isaac. A sign has occurred which gives her distress and concern. What does she do? Sit and brood in alarm over it or run with the deli- cate secret to some one who perhaps would know as little about it as the inexperienced young wife? — Not at all she is too self- reliant for that. — Instead she goes to the Lord how we do not — know, nor does it matter, but with such faith and trust in him as to obtain an answer that not only comforts and sustains her but reveals the larger purposes of God. "Two nations," she is told of the Lord, "are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated even from thy bowels. The one people shall be strong-er than the other people and the elder shall serve the younger." Here the; Lord condescends to give Rebecca a revelation that touches the future of two peoples. The next time she appears before us in the narrative is in the fan^ous sceen of the transferred blessing, overhearing the now — aged Isaac telling his elder son, Esau the wild, the impulsive, the roaming Esau, —who isloved by the gentle, retiring Isaac more than is the quiet Jacob, to bring him a "savory offering'' that he in turn may bless him. Now, this blessing was an important and significant event in the life of a follower of Abraham in those days. So Rebecca induces Jacob, her favorite son, to assume the appearance of the elder son, to anticipate him in the offering, and to receive the blessing in his stead, as he has already received from him the birthright. The plan succeeds. Rebecca has often been severely censured for this deed. Ex- amination of all the facts in the situation, however, will serve to — throw the incident in another light. Isaac is very old a hundred and thirty-seven years. Moreover, his physical, and perhaps his mental, powers are greatly enfeebled. Rebecca's powers, on the contrary, are as alert as ever, to all appearances. Isaac is about to go counter to what she, and perhaps he, knows is the will of the Lord, as revealed to her. For the Lord told her specific- ally that "the elder shall serve the younger". Now, she prob- ably knew that she could not accomplish her end by direct means. So she used indirect means. Perhaps she has less im- plicit faith in the Lord to do his own work than Abraham would have had in the same situation, but that is because she wants to act rather than merely to think. At all events, she is with the Lord, whereas Isaac is about to be, and but for her would actually be, against the Lord. Her final appearance is when Jacob is sent away to obtain a wife for himself. Esau, forgetful of the covenant, marries daughters of the land. But Jacob must marry from "the seed". So Rebeccca suggests that Jacob be sent away to her kindred for a helpmeet. These facts and incidents show a strong woman, one with: an abundant vitality, i)hysical and spiritual, with independence such as one would not expect in the East of the olden time, with a quick, resolute decision of character, and with great insight into the hidden purposes of the Lord, coupled with faith and trust in him, full of resource and tact. QUESTIONS. Who was Rebecca? Give each of the four incidents related of her. What characteristics does she exhibit in each? What do you think of her "deception" of Isaac? Show that Rebecca was a suitable companion to her husband. What dififerences do you observe between the customs of those days and ours? LESSON IL Work and Business. Second W^.ek in March. LESSON in. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in March.