say with Maggie, it is our only joke. It is what every woman knows. Questions 1. Mention some woman or women in history who are given credit for helping their husbands in their careers. 2. Tell the story of some woman you know personally who has assisted her husband in his career. 3. Do you think there are still men who expect a great deal of help from women without giving them any credit? 4. Relate the story of some man, either mentioning his name or not as you think best, who acknowledges that his wife has assisted or is assisting him in his life's work? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson 12. Care of Intellectually Inferior Children. (Based on Chapter XIII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) In the last lesson we considered the causes of juvenile delinquency. We noted there the general importance of mental factors, especially mental deficiencies, in the causation of juvenile delinquency. In the present lesson we are going to look more specifically at the causes and treatment of feeblemindedness. The author of this chapter, Dr. Arnold Gessell, is both a physician and a psychologist. He is a very competent authority in this field?director of the psycho-clinic for children at Yale University. A. The Causes of Feeblemindedness: When they learn for the first time that defective heredity is not the only cause of feeblemindedness, many parents are genuinely surprised. While it is true that most cases of mental deficiency are traced to an inherited defect in the family stock, it is also true according to the best authorities, that from ten to fifteen per cent of all feeblemindedness is the result of disease, injury, or some other malevolent factor operating directly upon the fetus or the young infant. It is notorious that such things as (a) alcoholism of the parents at the time of conception, or of the mother during pregnancy, (b) head injuries, (c) defects of nutrition, (d) whooping cough and (e) other children's diseases, seriously interfere with the normal development of the cerebral cortex?that outer layer of the brain which has most to do with the behavior function called intelligence. This being the case, it follows then that in our attempt 'to control feeblemindedness we must be just as much concerned (a) adequately to care for the child during pregnancy, (b) to prevent injury at birth, and (c) to avoid accident or disease during early childhood, as we are that mentally defective adults shall be sterilized or denied the privilege of marriage.
B. The Measurement of Intelligence: When the term "measurement" is used in connection with intelligence a wrong impression is likely to be created. Unlike the measurement of weight, or distance, for example, the measurement of intelligence is by no means accurate. While the intelligence test is a vast improvement over all other known methods of appraising intelligence, it is, nevertheless, an imperfect device and one that calls for skill in its use and interpretation. For instance. The I. Q. (i. e., the test-score) assumes that the child is at his best physically and mentally when he takes the test. In the second place it assumes that the child fully understands what is required of him by the test. Thirdly, it assumes that he co-operates willingly and eagerly in the test. Finally it assumes that the only factor operating to raise or lower his performance, and therefore his score, is his intelligence. It will readily be seen that these assumptions may or may not be true in actual practice. The best method of testing intelligence now employed by institutions caring for feebleminded children, is to supplement the results of intelligence tests by physical examination and a life-history. This life-history includes the child's developmental record of disease, his reactions to other children, his interests, habits, and, where school adjustment is attempted, his success or failure in educational work.
C. The Treatment of the Feebleminded: Medical and physical treatment of feeblemindedness, as the author points out, is a negligible factor in the control of mental deficiency. The real treatment is largely educational, psychological, and social. The elements of any state program for the care of mentally defectives should include the following:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school, for the low grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
In view of the fact that the 1929 legislature is now considering the establishment of a state training school for mental defectives, such a program is of vital importance to the people of Utah at this time. Utah has the unenviable distinction of being one of only three or four states in the Union without such facilities. Feebleminded children in Utah must either be sent to Idaho, Colorado, Oklahoma or some other nearby state school, or else remain at home. The injustice is great in either case. If these children remain at home, they become a burden to their parents; they are the object of ridicule and jest in the neighborhood, and are virtually denied their right to some kind of education. If they are committed to an out-of-state institution, the cost of care is exorbitant, for they are charged the special rates of the non-resident. Furthermore, parents are unable to visit them oftener than once or twice a year because the cost of travel is prohibitive.
QUESTIONS
1. What other factors than heredity can cause feeblemindedness?
2. What is the correct definition of an "idiot," an "imbecile," a "moron?"
3. What are the dangers of an uncritical use of mental tests?
4. Why is it necessary early to detect and train feebleminded children?
5. What should a school curriculum for feebleminded children include? What should be its key-note?
6. Why is Utah so backward in establishing adequate facilities for its mentally handicapped children?
7. What facilities exist in your local schools for the special treatment of dull and backward children?
Karl G. Maeser A Biography by His Son
From affluence and social standing in aristocratic circles of Germany to humble stations in Utah, from wealth and comfort to poverty and actual want, from an aristocrat to a man of the common people, from a military disciplinarian to a kind and helpful father of thousands in the world of education, and, above all, from a skeptic and scoffer to a devout and resolute believer in, and defender of, the principles of the doctrine of Jesus Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints, this, in brief, is the remarkable series of disclosures concerning a great but humble life briefly set forth in the first book published by the Brigham Young University?Karl G. Maeser.
The book is written by his son Reinhard Maeser, now also deceased, long a teacher in the institution founded and brought into greatness by the faith and works of his illustrious father. The first chapters might well be termed "The Martyrdom of a Devoted Hero." Most of the early incidents are tragic. The trials and disappointments of a mind cultured and comprehensive and of a soul sensitive and conscientious; a battle fierce and long-drawn out against unaccustomed environments; adverse conditions of a new and extraordinary sort, exactly calculated to sting to the quick the proud and sensitive soul of the German scholar called to teach a district school in pioneer educational days in Utah,?these are the pictures shown in the neat text of the little volume about a big man.
The record of his missionary labors in Germany, of the offers of his friends and family to induce him to give up the Latter-day Saints, and come back to be one of the ornaments of German society again?these topics form another interesting and characteristic period of the life of Karl G. Maeser; and upon them many a missionary will delight to dwell.
The period of the infancy and development of the Brigham Young Academy will be of intensive interest alike to the present students of the Brigham Young University and to those of far earlier years, who enjoyed the unique privilege of coming under the instruction of this magnetic character builder and inspirer of youth.
The final honors, which a grateful community at last showered upon him, form a record that is full of fascination even to strangers. To those who were associated with the events recorded, the narrative tingles with a beauty and glory that is not strictly personal to the life of Dr. Maeser, but carries one into the sacred realms of a truly intellectual and religious atmosphere.
The book is likely to excite the dismay of the mere man of the world, who will exclaim, "Is heaven so unkind as this to its choicest children?" But it will act as a challenge and stimulus to the mind more heroic, which will get from these narratives the inspiration to aspire and the fortitude to suffer, in order to live the higher life, with "those immortal souls who live again in lives made better by their presence."
If I Could Only Live By Alfred Osmond
If I could only live to see unkindness An exile, banished from my mortal ken, I would not fear to face the final blindness That comes at last to all the sons of men.
If I could only live to see devotion Exalted on the throne of righteousness, I would not fear to face the final motion That seals the fate of human happiness.
If I could only live to see my Nation Become a Christian land in very deed, I would not fear to face the separation That proves the folly of a faithless creed.
If I could only live to see the day When all the drums of war would cease to beat, I would be happy and would gladly say That life is beautiful and death is sweet.
"I advise young men and women to save the most precious years of their lives by securing a business education, that they may go forth fully equipped early in life."?Andrew Carnegie.
?the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement.
L. D. S. Business College
Write today for full particulars.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids?
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
GLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine