[Vol16 | January 1929 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: A Song for New Years Shirley Reid Gudmundsen]
A Song for New Year's By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen
'Tis Old Year's Night. The room is dim. The faint moving shadow on the little table Of polished walnut Far from the sharp white flames That dance over red embers in the fireplace.
These, and the lighted globe on the fir tree In the corner, Cast a soft glow, that catches All the sparkle of the tinsel, All the glitter of the little tin track On which the toy train Has circled noisily, dutifully, for a week.
Against a chair leg The round-eyed doll reclines As though in musing, sweetly.
And the air is filled With filmy haze of incense, Sandalwood, From the Joss on the mantel. His sleepy face is wreathed in smoke As though it might be a token Of the peace, with all existing things That wrap about his soul.
'Tis New Year's Morn. A little space of minutes makes it so. And now The room is filled with light, efficiently, And all its corners are illuminated.
The table and the tree have lost their quiet magic Of half darkness, And the hearth is but a fireplace For warming.
The door is opened; On the frost night is borne Medleys of the noise That seek to make a mark on fleeting time.
The cold air rushes in, Dispels the smoke of incense, Makes as though to bring New roses to the doll's cheeks, New thoughts for those round eyes to startle at.
My Neighbor Alice M. Walker Poem awarded first prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
Life was so full of petty care I had no time to really live, No happiness had I to share, No song to sing, no joy to give.
Each day passed by on weary wings, Each night brought only brief surcease, I could not sense the greater things, Could only work, and wait?for peace.
And then you came, and lo, it seemed That through your eyes I learned to see Life, beauty, faith, of which I'd dreamed But never hoped could come to me.
I learned the joy of daily tasks, And found the calm of cloudy days, I came to know that Duty masks The entrance to Life's sweetest ways.
You went away, but still I hold The power you gave, to smile and sing, To tinge the darkest clouds with gold, And see God's hand in everything.
Etched Josephine Spencer Poem awarded second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
The horizon a hazy line; Foreground, a patch of crusted brine; Buff beach, brown shore, a waveless sea? With noon sun burning all the three.
South edge of serrate, Vandyke peaks; Pale island headlands laid in streaks Against the west; a northern shore Set dark against the lake's blue floor.
