Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in March)
PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
Honesty: Honesty is honor in action. Honesty is righteousness on the wing. It is applied conscience. When Cervantes said, "Honesty is the best policy" he meant, it pays to be honest.
First, with Ourselves: Honesty with one's self means being true to one's conscience; and the highest trueness to one's conscience is to keep it in the light of the best obtainable light. A thoughtful conscience means an elevated conscience. One of Dr. Maeser's favorite admonitions to his students was: "Be your self, your better self," meaning, be honest with your higher impulses, your loftier thoughts, your nobler ambitions. None but the depraved lack the desire to be honest; and as we are loath to believe in utter depravity, it is difficult for us to think of any one who has lost all desire to be honest. Honest desires are the pearls of great price; in the ethical world, they are insurance investments against moral bankruptcy. The desire for self-honesty is the "Thirst after righteousness" spoken of in the beatitudes, Matthew 5:6. Desires for self honesty, thoughts of self honesty, determinations of self-honesty, act and react on each other, giving to and getting from each other the power that makes for the happiness of being honest. The joy of inner honesty is close kin to the strength of inner cleanliness; they stand together, desiring only that which is lawful.
Have you felt that hunger for goodness, Craving the Millennium here? A yearning to be full of kindness, With never a hope nor a fear?
Have you burned with a thirst to be honest, Just for Honesty's sake? Have you longed for a thrill that is present When give is better than take?
If you have, there is started within you The kingdom for action to build, Where the hunger and thirst will continue And your soul be constantly thrilled.
Even thrilled with joy of desiring To do and be all that you should; Filled full of the high power of loving The being and doing of good.
Thus filled with a thrill, you're fulfilling The promise He made on the mount; Living the life most worth living And counting for most you can count.
If it pays to be happy, then inner honesty pays. "He who deceives others is a knave, but he who deceives himself is a fool." ?Maeser.
Honesty in the Outer World: Honesty in the outer world means honesty with others, sociological honesty. Honesty in communication creates lasting confidence, without which all productive and exchange industries would go to the wall. Crooked characters, like counterfeit coins, owe their existence to the honesty there is in society. It is the existence of the true that makes the false of even apparent value. "Truth crushed to earth will rise again; the eternal years of God are hers; while error, wounded, writhes in pain, and dies amid her worshipers." Honesty makes friends; fraud finds only fellow conspirators. Honesty creates wealth; fraud filches it. Honesty merits power; fraud usurps it. Honesty with others gives us lasting values of confidence, friendship, and reciprocal helpfulness. These create opportunities for the making of an honest living, in which no financial obligations are assumed without expectation of meeting them, no promises made without determination to keep them. It is no disgrace to accept aid in hours of need, but it is dishonest to borrow or run bills with no intention of keeping faith with those who trust us. The thought of "looking the whole world in the face" as Longfellow's Village Blacksmith did, is almost thrilling to one who senses the paying value of honesty with others. For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?Matt. 16:26. Dishonesty with others is social soul sickness; discovered, dishonesty is death to the social soul.
Honesty in the Upper World?Honest with the Lord?Theological Honesty: "The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is his delight"?Prov. 15:8. Who are upright? The honest?those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; those who pray for the building up of Zion and pay their tithing; those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; those who pray for the divine support of leaders and stand for their counsel and advice. Honesty of desires, of belief, of works, has some compesation in the theological field; but the greater returns come from honesty of action. Absolute honesty is to be looked for in ideals, in angels, in deities; and the expectation of receiving rewards without merit in the upper world seems sufficiently inconsistent to check any insincere approach to the Lord; and we are led to the conclusion that ordinances without honesty avail nothing. Honesty in Spots: The conduct of individuals and groups points to a nearly universal spottedness of honesty. Many who are truthful in general are specifically untruthful in the matter of tax assessments. Persons who would be horrified at the thought of stealing, have a conscience that will permit them to fill the craws of their chickens from their neighbor's garden. And not infrequently there are people who "would not for the world"' directly rob their neighbors of sleep, but will keep a dog that makes the night uncomfortable to slumber seekers. That man was an exceptional one who, at the close of the harvest season, called a boy to him and said, "Jesse, you have more than earned your monthly wages, you have done a full man's work; I will pay you a man's wages." Grades of Honesty: There are three grades of honesty: First and highest, the free agency honesty. This grade comes from persons who need only the opportunity to be honest; they are the honest in heart. Second grade?the fear-prompted honesty. This grade comes from those who are honest in order to escape penalty; to them the evil is not in the dishonesty but in its being found out. Third grade?forced honesty. This grade comes from characters who are deprived of the opportunity of being other than honest. Only first grade honesty has in it the germ of honesty with self, Is honesty increasing? On the whole, the world is becoming more honest, and better; like individuals, however, it is honest in spots. Education and experience have led to a higher appreciation of honesty as something that pays, in many ways?pays, in fact, in all of the long ways. In every line of life dishonesty is being viewed more and more as not only wrong but as sheer folly. Clearer and clearer it becomes that to be honest with the Lord is to be honest with one's fellow men; and to be honest with others is to be true to one's self?one's better self. Clearer and clearer in the handwriting of progress is seen the truth, It Pays to be Honest. Thirteen Things that make for improvement in honesty: 1. Submitting to honest self examination. 2. Cultivating desires for honesty. 3. Making honest confessions to self. 4. Entertaining thoughts of honesty. 5. Encouraging ambition to be honest. 6. Teaching honesty. 7. Acting honesty. 8. Fighting fraud (a) within (b) without. 9, Demanding reform (a) individual (b) group. 10. Trying to be what one would have the many become. 11. Insisting on respect for property rights in the, home. 12. Requiring children to give an account of things brought 13. Trying to find the owner of things found. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein are secret prayer and self examination closely related? 2. What are the fruits of inner honesty? 3. When is one making an honest living? 4. Explain being "honest in spots." 5. Show that dishonest enterprises are dependent upon honesty. 6. Discuss: Honesty does not require that truth be told regardless of circumstances; nor that the whole truth be always told. 7. Why are April Fool untruths not dishonest? 8. Does honesty forbid a respectful reception of an unwelcome caller? Give reasons for answer. 9. Discuss: Discovered dishonesty is death to the "social soul." 10. Name some of the best fruits of (a) self honesty; (b) social honesty. 11. Quote the beatitude that promises pay for inner honesty. 12. Where must we look for absolute honesty?  13. Who are the members of our Church whose prayers are a "delight unto the Lord?" 14. Mention ten things that make for the increase of honesty. 15. Discuss the value of respecting property rights in the home; of the custom of requiring children to tell where they get things that they bring home; of insisting upon an effort to find the owner of "found things." 16. Discuss numbers eleven and twelve in this lesson as things that make for training in honesty. 17. Is honesty increasing? See Article "Why Education?' by President Frank S. Harris and N. I. Butt, Deseret News, Saturday, November 24, 1928. LESSON II Work and