Business (Second Week in March) Teachers' Topic for March?Activities of the Relief Society. Why the Lessons in Practical Religion and Testimony I. To emphasize the importance of an every-day salvation as not only a preparation for, but as a part of, eternal life. II. To bring together material from the fields of revelation, human experience, and thought, for study and discussion. III. To indicate how ideas and inspiration may be made over into character through the formation of habits. IV. To stimulate interest in self-examination with a view toward self-improvement. V. To inspire a spirit of "weary not" in the work of lifting society to higher levels of life. VI. The lessons show the indispensability of, and point the way toward:; a. The conscientious life. B. The clean life. C. The honest life. D. The temperate life. E. The industrious life. F. The loyal life? as essential parts of the abundant spiritual life. VII. The plentitude of material in the lessons provides for study, sufficient to interest the most investigative students, and this plentitude suggests the propriety of being sufficiently selective in the presentation and discussion to guard -against trenching upon the time for testimonies. - LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) BIOGRAPHY JAMES MATTHEW BARRIE James Matthew Barrie, British novelist and dramatist, was born at Kirriemuir, a small village in Forfarshire, on the 9th day of May, 1860. He received his education in the Dumfries Academy and the Edinburgh University. From Mrs. Barrie's quasi-autobiography, Margaret. Ogilvy, we learn that before he went to school he wrote tales in the garret; and at Edinburgh he wrote the greater part of a three-volume novel. A publisher presumed this novel was the work of a clever lady and offered to publish it for one hundred pounds, but the offer was not accepted. Mr. Barrie found his way to literature through journalism. In February, 1883, he became leader-writer on the Nottingham Journal. He contributed a number of special articles and notes to this journal and thus obtained training and provided an opening for his personal talent. Soon after this he began submitting articles to London editors. In 1884 his article on "An Auld Licht Community" was printed in the St. James Gazette. More Auld Licht "Idylls" followed and in 1885 Mr. Barrie moved to London, where he continued to write for the St. James Gazette, The Home Clinic and the Edinburgh Evening Dispatch. His first book, Better Dead, was published in 1887 and was followed by Auld Licht Idylls in 1888, which was a collection of Scott's village sketches, portraying the life and humors. Of his native village. In 1889 A Window in Thurms was published, which, together with the Idylls, gave in full measure Mr. Barrie's gift of humanity, humor and pathos, with abundant evidence also of his original and vernacular style and the whimsical turn of his wit. In 1891 his first long novel, The Little Minister, appeared. In 1894 he published Margaret Ogilvy, which was based on the life of his mother and of his own relations with her, tenderly and beautifully written. Sentimental Tommy appeared the following year, and was completed by a sequel, Tommy and Grizel, published in 1900. In 1902 The Little White Bird was published. In this book he portrays his tenderness for child-life and gives full play to his whimsical invention. It contained the episode of Peter Pan, which suggested the play of that name. During this time Mr. Barrie had been developing his talent as a dramatist. In 1892 his play, Walker, London, appeared with much success. In 1893 he wrote, with Sir Conan Doyle, a play called Jane Annie. In this year he married Miss Ansell, who 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE had acted in Walker, London. He found much success in The Professor's Love Story in 1895; and in 1897 his dramatized version of The Little Minister probably confirmed his popularity as a dramatist. Mr. Barrie, who had been a struggling journalist of the early nineties, had by this time become one of the most prosperous literary men of the day. In 1903 three of his plays held the stage; and in 1904 Peter Pan, a poetical pantomime in which the author portrays some of his most characteristic and permanently delightful gifts, was produced. In 1905, Alice, Sit by the Fire, and in 1908, What Every Woman Knows, were added to his list. As a dramatist Mr. Barrie brought a method that was wholly unconventional and a sigularly fresh fancy, which contained also a shrewd touch of satirical humor. In literature with the simplest materials he achieved an almost unendurable pathos, never forced, but always salted with humor. Robert Louis Stevenson said of him, "there was genius in him, but there was a journalist on his elbow." What Every Woman Knows, By James Matthew Barrie In Barrie's play of four acts What Every Woman Knows, we are first introduced into the home of the Wylie family consisting of the father, two sons and a daughter. They are proprietors of the local granite quarry. This has not always been true, for Alick, the father, was throughout his working days a mason in this same quarry. It is the brother David who has raised them to this position. They have one sister, Maggie. Maggie admits that she is twenty-six years of age and is as yet unmarried. The play opens with her brothers David and James joking about marriage, for they are both bachelors. A note in the play says you do not know David and James until you know how they love their sister Maggie. They agree that she has set her heart on love, "not merely love," they say, "but one of those grand noble loves; for though Maggie is undersized she has a passion for romance." David addresses his father by asking, "did you tell her who got the minister of Galashiels?" Alick: "I had to tell her and then I bought her a sealskin muff and I just slipped it into her hands and came away." James says: "Of course, to be fair to the man, he never pretended he wanted her." Then David says: "None of them wants her. I was thinking, father, I would buy her that gold watch and chain in Snibby's window. She hankers after it." James, slapping his pocket: "You're too late, David. I've got them for her." Then David says: "It is ill done for the minister. Many a pound of steak has that man had in this house." The brothers have made up their minds not to retire at their usual hour, which is 10:00 p. M. They know that Maggie will be in presently to remind them that it is bed-time. They think it wise not to let her know why they are sitting up, but when she comes in they are not artful enough to keep the truth from her. They tell her they have been told by the police that a man has entered the window of the house several times and they fear that he is after their silver-plate. Under the circumstances Maggie refuses to go to bed. In a short time the intruder enters the rooms. He goes directly to the bookcase where there are some five hundred volumes, takes a book from the case saying it is just what he wants and begins to read. They recognize the man who came in through the window as John Shand, a young student who is trying very hard to make his way through the University of Edinburgh. The brothers conceive the idea of offering three hundred pounds if at the end of his college career he will consent to marry Maggie. They make it very clear to Shand that if Maggie should make up her mind to marry in the meantime that she is at perfect liberty to do so, but they insist on Shand standing by the contract. Maggie shows some embarrassment at this proposition and tells Shand in a half-hearted way that she hopes that he will not feel bound if he really cares for somebody else. In the course of their conversation it develops that John is twenty-one and Maggie's brothers say she is twenty-five. Pretending to a stricter honesty than that of her brothers she says she is twenty-six. Later, when John is gone, one of her brothers says he thought she was twenty-seven. In the beginning of the second act we find John waiting for the results of the election, for he is running for Parliament, a fact which indicates that he has finished his education. Maggie is all aflutter. Finally they have the election returns. John announces that he is elected by a majority of 244. "I'm John Shand, M. P." he exultantly exclaims. Maggie, weak in her limbs says: '"You're sure you're in, John?" John says: "Majority, 244. I've beaten the baronet. I've done it, Maggie, and not a soul to help me; I've done it alone." Alick asks: "What are you doing, Maggie?' She replies: "This is the House of Commons, and I'm John, catching the Speaker's eye for the first time. Do you see a queer little old wifie sitting up there in the Ladies' Gallery? That's me. Mr. Speaker, sir, I rise to make my historic maiden speech." Then a conversation ensues in which Maggie shows that she is very eager for the marriage to take place. She reminds John that she has waited a year longer than the contract called  for. She tells him she would like to release him from it but she has not the strength. However, she takes the contract and tears it in two, but John feels that he is morally obligated to marry her despite the fact that she insists that she has no charm and consequently does not hold it against him at all that he is reluctant. Finally she tells him that if he only had a sense of humor it might all be different. John says: "I cannot call to mind, Maggie, ever having laughed in my life." Maggie: 'You have no sense of humor." John: "Not a spark." Maggie: "I have sometimes thought if you had it might make you fonder of me. I think one needs a sense of humor to be fond of me." John does succeed in his public life. His addresses attract a good deal of attention. People say there is a unique quality about them and they actually coined a word which they called "Shandisms," to describe them. As he continues there are some of his acquaintances more analytical than others who suspect that John's work is not solely his. The bill to be introduced into Parliament relative to the rights of British women is being generally discussed by John's friends and acquaintances. Finally the Comtesse says to Maggie: "There is someone who helps out Mr. Shand." Maggie says: "There is not." Then, comes the reply, "It is a woman and it is you." Maggie says: "I help in the little things." Comtesse: "The little things! You are the pin he picked up and that is to make his fortune. And now, what I want to know is whether your John is aware that you help at all. John enters at that moment and provides the answer. He says: "Maggie! Comtesse! I've done it again." The Comtesse appreciates the fact that Maggie does much of the work and addresses her saying: "You divine little wife. He cannot be worthy of it. No-man could be worthy of it. Why do you do it?" Maggie shivers a little and replies: "He loves to think he does it all himself. That is the way of men. I am six years older than he is. I am plain and I have no charm. I should not have let him marry me. I am trying to make up for it." As John matures we are told that much has come to him that we had almost despaired of his acquiring, including nearly all the divine attributes except the sense of humor. ? Now there develops a love affair between Sybil and John. Sybil has charm but she lacks the sense of humor. Maggie is conscious of the situation and offers to release her husband. Maggie's brother David says to John: ?How long has this GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH been going on?" referring to the flirtation between Sybil and John. John: "If you mean how long has that lady been the apple of my eye, I am not sure, but I never told her of it until today." Maggie, who is knitting, looks thoughtful. She says: "I think it was not until about six months ago, John, that she began to be very dear to you. At first you liked to bring in her name when talking to me, so that I could tell you of any little things I might have heard she was doing; but afterward, as she became more and more to you, you avoided mentioning her name." David finally says: "Well, we won't go into the matter. The thing to be thankful for is that it is ended." Alick, the father, who is looking very old, replies: "Yes, yes, that is the great thing." But John says: "All useless, sir. It is not ended. It is to go on." James, the brother, says: ?Man, I could knock you down." Maggie: "There is not one of you could knock John down." David exasperated says: "Quiet, Maggie. One would think you were taking his part." Maggie replies: 'Do you expect me to desert him at the very moment he needs me most?" David: "I suppose you understand you will have to resign your seat?" (Having reference of course to the seat in Parliament.) John: "I am mortal sorry, Maggie." Sybil: "And J also." Maggie soothingly: "I am sure you are, but as it cannot be helped I see no reason why we three should not talk the matter over in a practical way." John: "If you can understand, Maggie, what an inspiration she is to me in my work." Sybil: "Mrs. Shand, I think of nothing else." Maggie: "That is fine. That is as it should be." Then they begin to plan about when Maggie should leave them, and she says it could not well be before Wednesday as that is the day the laundry comes home. And John says: "It is the day the House rises. It may be my last appearance in the House." Maggie, sympathetically: "You love the House, don't you, John, next to her. It is a pity you cannot wait until after your speech at Leeds. Mr. Venables won't let you speak at Leeds, I fear, if you leave me." John: "What a chance it would have been, but let it go."  Then they agree that the separation shall not occur for a month, and Maggie arranges that John shall go to the cottage of the Comtesse where he can be alone and work on his Leeds address. John accuses her of doing this to separate them. He says it is just a wife's trick. Then she takes up the telephone and asks the Comtesse to arrange for Sybil to be there also. John and Sybil are not present when she does the latter thing, so she tells John that the Comtesse wants Sybil to be there. Later Maggie pays a visit to the Comtesse. As soon as she arrives she hears that there is something wrong about the speech. She finds John depressed. John had left an outline of his speech and Maggie has fixed it up and now hands it to Venables whose business seems to pass on this particular speech. When Maggie comes into contact with John and Sybil she explains that she is ready to leave with her brothers. She says: "You see my brothers feel they cannot be away from their business any longer and so if it would be convenient to you, John, I could travel with them by the night train on Wednesday." John: 'This is just the 21st." Maggie: My things are all packed. I think you will find the house in good order, Lady Sybil. I have had the vacuum cleaners in. I will give you the keys to the linen and the silver-plate. I have them in that bag. John: ?Why should you be so ready to go?" Maggie: "I promised not to stand in your way." John hesitates and Maggie says: "Don't you love her any more, John? Be practical." Sybil: "At any rate I have tired of him. Oh, best to tell the horrid truth. I am ashamed of myself. I have been crying my eyes out over it. I thought I was such a different kind of woman, but I am weary of him. I think him?oh, so dull." John: "Are you sure that is how you have come to think of me?" Sybil: "I am sorry, but, yes, yes, yes." John says: "My God, it's more than I deserve." Then a discussion ensues as to whether anybody has ever helped John. He says: "Nobody has ever helped him." Maggie says: "Not even Lady Sybil?" John: "I am beginning to doubt it. It's very curious, though, Maggie, that this speech should be disappointing." Maggie: "It is just that Mr. Venables has not the brains to see how good it is." John: "That must be it. No, Maggie, it is not. Somehow I seem to have lost my neat way of saying things." Maggie, almost cooing: "It will come back to you." John, forlorn: "If you knew how I've tried." Maggie: "Maybe if you were to try again and I will just come and sit beside you and knit. I think the click of the needles sometimes put you in the mood." John: "Hardly that; and yet many a Shandism I knocked off while you were sitting beside me knitting. I suppose it was the quietness." John: "Maggie!" Maggie: "What is it, John?" John: "What if it was you that put those queer ideas into my head." Maggie: "Me?" John: 'Without your knowing it, I mean." Maggie: "John, could it be this, that I sometimes had the idea in a rough womanish sort of way and then you polished it up till it came out a Shandism?" John: "I believe you have hit it, Maggie: to think that you may have been helping me all the time and neither of us knew it." Mr. Venables enters and the Comtesse says: "He wishes to see you, Mr. Shand." And she adds: "About your speech." John says he has heard enough about that. The Comtesse adds: "I think it is about the second speech." And John in astonishment adds: 'What second speech?" Maggie says: "You had left the first draft of your speech at home, John, and I brought it here with a few little things I have added myself, just trifles. Things I used to suggest to you while I was knitting; and then, if you liked any of them, you could have polished them and turned them into something good. And now she (meaning the Comtesse) has shown it to Mr. Venables." John: "As my work, Comtesse?" Maggie says: "It is your work?nine-tenths of it." John: "You presumed, Maggie Shand! Very well, then. Here he comes, and now we'll see to what extent you've helped me." Venables: "My dear fellow. My dear Shand, I congratulate you. Give me your hand." John: "The speech?" Venables: "You have improved it out of knowledge. It is the same speech but those new touches make all the difference." They talk the matter over and agree that John's success is due to a combination of work. John shivers and Maggie asks: "Why did you shiver, John?" John: "It was at myself for saying that I could not live  with you again, and I should have been wondering how for so long you have lived with me. And I suppose you have forgiven me all the time and forgive me still." Then Maggie says: "John, am I to go or are you to keep me on? I am willing to stay because I am useful to you, if it cannot be for a better reason." His hand feels for her and she draws near to him. Maggie: "It is nothing unusual I have done, John. Every man who is high up loves to think that he has done it all himself, and the wife smiles and lets it go at that. It is our only joke. Every woman knows that." Problem of the Play The problem presented in this play is that of the assistance the wife gives the husband in his work. Her part is usually done quietly without ostentation. There are women everywhere in the world, companions o fmen who have achieved success, who know with Maggie that they have been an important part of that success, whether their husbands acknowledge it or not, and who