[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Portrait | Author: Christens]
Portrait of Freedom. A Poem Sequence Alberta Huish Christensen 644 Immigrant Speaking 12 They ask of me, for they do not know, What is this freedom in your new land? And I say to them: Freedom it is, where all in my house Are safe. Men do not take us away, one from another. And freedom it is, to speak all things — What is in the heart and what comes to the mind Sometimes they are happy words, Sometimes questions. In my new land, I speak all words To my family, to friends, to all people. Freedom it is, to speak all things. Most wonderful it is, the right to believe, To teach the little ones (nine children I have). No one there is to stop me, Saying, "There is no God." Freedom it is — the right to believe. So I say to them, for they do not know, Freedom it is, that does not build a wall. Freedom is my country — my new land! Do Not Forget (Words for Today) Do not forget the nights upon dark water, The pathless waves of sea; Do not forget the bravery Of men seeking uncharted harbors, Wilderness of mountain and the barrier stream. Do not forget their dream To own, to sow, to reap, And then to sleep In peace and unafraid. Recall the winter months at Valley Forge And men with neither shoes nor food; Remember one in solemn prayer Who wept for them — Who wept for them, in the white wood. Do not forget how Founding Fathers built That deep foundation, on a misty reef; Their shaping of conviction, word by word, With implements of phrase not used before. Oh, hold inviolate their firm belief. Recalling one who framed by taper light The watchword of a nation, not yet born, Remember yet another, lean and tall — A lonely man upon a lonely road — Anguished, and yearning for the guns to cease, Who held the soul enslaved, Too great a price for peace. America, my Country, Do not forget. 645 Please call me Tiinin Myrtle M. Dean LLIE Stevens — sixth grade — A this information was neatly printed on a placard and taped just outside the door of the room in the Benton school. Allie was there early to greet her pupils as they came in. Thirty seats ran in rows through the room. A frightening sense of responsibility swept through her as each child entered and looked her over. 'Their new teacher, a woman, slight of figure, and an easy mark, probably, was the judgment many of them were forming right now, Allie thought. After a brief greeting and a curious glance at her, each went to locate the seat he preferred. The students who lived far from the school came in on buses. It was one of the boys who came with this group that caused Allie to wonder, and left her vaguely disturbed. He came in hesitantly, and glanced about. She thought the look he gave her held more than mere curiosity. He did not search about for a special seat, but went uncertainly to the back of the room. He sat heavily in one on the last row. There was something in the boy's 646 face that she could not divine. Was it mere shyness or heart hunger, or perhaps the boy had been ill? Something in his eyes made Allie's heart turn over in sympathy akin to pain. Allie had taught school in her home town for two years before she was married. David was on a mission. When he returned they were married in the temple and came to live in Benton, David's home town. Little Cindy had been born a year later. Now as Allie saw fathers, driving fine cars, stop to let their children out for school, and go on about their business, her heart gave a wrench of pain. 'This morning she had left Cindy at the kindergarten for her first day. David would have been so proud to see her sparkling eyes as she ran to the teacher. Why did she have to lose David when they had only begun their lives together? She had asked so many times. She had tried hard to keep bitterness out of her heart since he died. When the school board had asked her to teach, it had seemed a challenge, and might be a way to turn her thoughts from her own PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY troubles, now that Cindy was in school. As Allie called the roll, she made some mental note on each pupil as he answered his name. 'They were each so different. She wanted to evaluate them fairly. She must gain their respect and understanding. Carol Adams — a blonde girl, with a child face and grownup manner, she thought. Evelyn Carroll — a pleasant child, with dark sparkling eyes, was the judgment. Ronald Gardner — a lad who likes fun more than study, Allie found herself thinking. Jimmy Stuart — a show-off, and maybe a bully. Allie checked herself hurriedly — first impressions may count, but I don't want to draw hasty conclusions, she thought. She continued on through the roll. 'Thirty boys and girls. She came to the name of the boy on the back row — Timothy Parker — She called his name and smiled, trying to assure him that she was a friend. He answered his name quietly. 'There was a slight response to her smile. Again, that puzzled feeling swept through her. I must get acquainted with his mother. This boy seems so different, Allie told herself. As the days passed, 'Timothy nearly always recited well, yet at times, he sat with a faraway look and gazed out of a window. Sometimes she called his name twice to bring his attention back to the class. Some days she felt that she was reaching the boy, then he would fall back on his unresponsive manner. Allie began to feel almost frustrated with trying to reach him. 647 HERE is nothing like having a pupil reveal himself in telling of a true experience, Allie told herself, a few weeks after school started. "I would like each of you to write a composition. The subject is to be, 'A Trip I have 'Taken.' Tell of the things you did, the place you went, and with whom." Would Timothy really express himself so that she might understand him better? "Do you know Timothy well? Do you live near him?" she asked one of the boys who rode in on the same bus as Timothy, from the south benchland. "Timothy lives farther out than I do," John told her. "He lives with his uncle on a little farm. You know his father and mother were killed in a car accident a few years ago. His little sister, too. Timothy was with them, but he was only hurt and got well. His uncle has a lot of kids of his own," John added. This revelation left Allie weak and ashamed that she had not sooner tried to learn more of Timothy's real life. She had just kept probing from the surface. "Timothy doesn't talk much. He won't say anything about his folks. They say he is a little queer since the accident," John said. "John, I hope we will all be kind and understanding of Timothy. He is really a bright boy. It is only this deep shock and his sorrow that cause him to act differently," Allie explained. "Golly, he has had lots of trouble. He stayed with his grandmother after his folks died. She was real old, and she died last year, so that is why he stays with his uncle 648 now." John related these facts with serious eyes. Allie wondered now if she had made a mistake in asking for a composition on the subject she had. A trip, when probably the only trip Timothy would be able to think of would be this tragic trip of the accident. She watched carefully as the papers were handed in for 'Timothy's name on one of them. Maybe he would not write at all. Her hands trembled as she shuffled through the papers at the end of the day. Relief filled her as she saw Timothy Parker at the head of the neatly written page. "A Fishing 'Trip to Hilton River," was the title. The class showed interest in the things their classmates had expetienced, as each one read his story. Allie began with Ronald Gardner. His was a trip to the circus. Carol Adams told of a trip to Yellowstone Park. Jimmy Stuart's trip, as a teacher might expect from Jimmy, "A Trip to the Moon." The amusement the class displayed satisfied his ego and paid him for his effort. "Timothy, may we hear of your trip now?" Allie asked, trying to keep unusual concern from her vOICe. The boy hesitated briefly, then moved to the front, and after a fleeting, fearful glance at his class, he began his story. "A Fishing 'Trip to Hilton River,' he announced. The boys sat up straighter as he mentioned fishing. Confidence came into Timothy's voice more and more as he heard the chuckles of his classmates and saw the interest in their eyes as he read. Sentence after sentence in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 boy's story revealed to Allie the closeness and love 'Timothy had felt for his father. "My father was a good fisherman. Mama fixed us a nice lunch and sent it along in a basket. I felt sort of funny at first when I baited my hook, but I didn't want Father to think I was a baby." 'Timothy's eyes sparkled as he read: "I felt a hard tug on my line. 'I've got a bite. A real hard one,' I told Father. 'Don't let him get away. Hold your line tight, Timmy.' I reeled fast and here came in a whopper of a speckled trout. I hoisted him onto the bank. 'You are a real good fisherman, Timmy,' Father said. He always called me Timmy." "That is excellent, Timothy," Allie said. 'Tears were close behind her eyelids and she blinked them back hurriedly. "My father called me Timmy," spoke so much of tenderness and love from this boy's father. She wanted to call him Timmy now, but thought, maybe the boy would want the name held for only his own to call him. "I am very pleased with all of your stories. I feel that I know all of you better," Allie told them. ACH afternoon Allie stopped by the kindergarten to get her little Cindy and take her home. One evening they came upon Timothy as he walked along the street on the outskirts of town. Allie wondered that the boy should be there after school, instead of riding the bus home as usual. It was several miles to the South Bench homes. She saw he had several parcels in his hands. "Timothy, oh, Timothy," she PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY called out to him. "Come and ride. We will drive you home." The boy turned in surprise and hesitated a moment. Then, with a grateful look, he hurried over and climbed in the seat beside little Cindy and his teacher. "Did you miss your bus, Timothy? It is a long walk out to the bench," Allie said. "I had to stop at the drugstore and get some medicine and some things for my aunt. The baby is sick, and my uncle doesn't get off work in time to get to the stores,' Timothy explained in a tired but uncomplaining voice. Allie looked at the boy closely as he rode beside her. He was a handsome lad, with dark brown eyes which held too much of sadness, his features made thin by loss of stimulating and happy surroundings to give him strength of body and spirit. How David would have loved such a son, Allie thought. Cindy seemed delighted by Timothy's company. She chattered happily, told him about her school, asked questions. He answered her, seeming to feel at ease and a smile was on his lips and a sparkle was in his eyes. "Is my Mommy your teacher?" Cindy asked him. "Yes, she is.' The way the boy replied made Allie feel that he was pleased that she was his teacher. "Now, Cindy, you mustn't ask too many questions," Allie told her. Cindy needs a companion at home, too, Allie thought. I'm sure She is lonely. I let myself fall into a depressed mood too often. I'm not very good company for her. As they stopped at the Parker's house, Allie noted the surroundings. 649 A small white cottage with peeling paint. 'The yard was small and somewhat cluttered. 'There was no adequate place for children to play. "Cindy, you wait a minute in the car, dear. I want to help Timothy in with his parcels," Allie said. "I'd like to meet your relatives, 'Timothy. You have quite a few things to carry, too, with all your books and things." "Thank you for bringing me home, Mrs. Stevens." The boy's voice was grateful. Mrs. Parker came to the door, a question in her eyes. 'There was a small child clinging to her skirts. Mr. Parker sat in a chair across the room with a baby in his lap, who was coughing and crying pitifully. Two small boys came in from the kitchen door, scuffling and arguing over a ball one of them had tucked in his hands behind him. Oh, dear, this is no time to try and call on Timothy's people, Allie told herself. She hurried to explain her presence there. "Ym Timothy's teacher, Mrs. Parker. I just happened along the street and saw Timothy walking, so I drove him home. It is so nice to be outside these evenings after being in the schoolroom all day." Allie didn't want the boy's folks to think she was censuring them. "Won't you come in?" Mrs. Parker invited in a tired voice. "Timothy has spoken of his teacher. I hope he is a good boy in school," she added. Timothy hurried on ahead and into the kitchen to deposit his things. He wants to evade a report on his deportment, Allie thought. She answered promptly, so that he might hear, "Timothy is a good stu- 650 dent, and is always obedient at school." Allie stepped inside. "I won't sit down," she said, as Mrs. Parker drew up a chair. "My little girl is waiting for me in the car. I do hope the baby will soon be well." As she went out she noticed a girl of about ten setting the table in the kitchen. Another small girl came in carrying a little gray kitten which was trying to squirm from her too-tight grasp. That makes six children I have seen here. All of them are younger than Timothy, Allie thought. No wonder their mother seems so overburdened and weary. Timothy must feel that he is an added burden. As Allie went out she saw 'Timothy peeking through the kitchen doorway. He had changed into everyday clothing. The boy would probably find home chores to do. He smiled and called to her, "Thank you, teacher, for driving me home." ' To see a smile on this boy's face gave her a warmth inside. She returned his smile, and replied warmly, "Pll see you tomorrow, 'Timot y." "T like Timothy, Mommy. He is a@emice boy. He talked to me,' Cindy said as they drove homeward. "Timothy is nice, darling. Glad we took him home." I'm Dre caer brief replies to Cinqueries, Allie was meditative ee ble Since seeing the condition of the Parkers, she was more concerned than before over this troubled boy.