[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Baking | Author: Robinson]
Roll out on floured board lightly 672 BAKING DAY AT HOME 673 and cut in about 3" squares. Then cut the squares into triangles. Brush with a bit of egg white saved from the eggs. Sprinkle with sugar and bake at 400° oven for about 10 minutes. Serve immediately. Orange Filling for Rol 6 medium-size oranges cut in pieces 1 c. Granulated sugar 2 tsp. Grated orange rind 3 or 4 tbsp. Soft butter Peel and cut oranges and combine with grated rind and sugar. Cook until a heavy syrup forms. Roll out dough and spread with melted butter and with the orange mixture which has been cooled. Roll up like a cinnamon roll and slice. Bake at 400° about 20 minutes. Makes filling for about 30 to 4o rolls, depending on how thick you spread it. Cinnamon R Jl Elling 2 tsp. Cinnamon % ¢. Softened butter 22 c. Brown sugar 1 c. Seeded raisins cooked plump Roll out dough on board and spread with softened butter. Then sprinkle with brown sugar, cinnamon, and raisins. Roll up and slice % inch thick. Let the rolls double their bulk and bake at 400° for about 12 to 15 minutes. Both of the above rolls are better when iced. I also ice the plain raisin rolls. Agnes Just Reid I called the roll in my garden This bright September day. Most everyone was present, Flaunting his colors gay. Golden glow, dahlia, pansy, "Mum," Delphinium, "glad," Morning glory, petunia, The best we had ever had. Alyssum, low and thrifty, Poppies so bright, so gold, African daisies, roses Blooming in spite of the cold. I gave them a hearty greeting, But my throat was strangely dry, I hope they didn't know it — But I also said goodbye. It is never too early for making gifts cum. Any season is gift-making time, and the wise and provident homemaker considers the convenience and joy which come to her and to her loved ones when appropriate gifts are on hand for birthdays, Christmas, and other special occasions. Have you ever stopped to think how many gifts and home decorations you can actually make with very little expense? You do not need an idea so fresh and original that no one else has ever heard of it. Use a basic idea and add unique touches, making the details of color and trimming a little different. Soon you will see how a pattern can be changed to become your original handiwork. Here are some suggestions for attractive and lovable gifts for children. Finger Puppets Puppets are for sale in many shops, but not like the ones I shall instruct you to make. Flere personal touches are added to a basic idea, and we come up with something the children will love. To make them you will need baby socks, felt, cotton, sequins, upholstery fringe, yarn, needle, and thread. You need only two basic head patterns to make the following finger puppets. The round head makes a rabbit, clown, Santa Claus, snow man, and as many more as you can think up. The profile head makes a dog, donkey, sheep, and many more animals, just by changing the ears. Look in children's color books for ideas, also ear patterns. 674 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Use the foot of a white sock, cutting the heel part off. Stuff the entire foot with cotton. Now, take a piece of yarn and tie tightly around the sock, allowing more for the body part than you do for the head. You will find the head part is round as it should be. With needle and thread, sew sock together at place where you cut off heel. This is where the feet of your doll will go. Take the foot pattern and place on green felt. Cut two pieces and sew them together on machine. Now, secure these feet to bottom of doll by tacking carefully. The clown's cap is made from a corner of a square piece of felt. The tassel is red and this is a small ball from upholstery fringe. Use a ruffle of red net for cap brim. With needle and thread, secure to head of doll. Use a larger ruffle of net around throat of doll, and three balls from red fringe down the front. The clown's face is decorated with small pieces of felt and sequins. These dolls have no arms. To make them you will need men's socks, large and small sequins, small squares of felt, yarn, and upholstery fringe. You will need bits of net for decorating the clown. There are dozens of clever ideas for making these dolls. Some of them are cute with words stitched on saying different things. One might say, "Love me," another might say, "I'm sweet." These letters are cut out of felt and stitched on with sequin beads. You might make 'Merry Christmas" dolls and let them sit about your living room to add that novelty touch when decorating the home for Christmas.