[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
r
Birthday  Congratulations  to 
on  his  Eighty-Ninth  Birthday 
At  this  time  in  the  month  of  September,  Rehef  Society  women  in 
all  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church  extend  birthday  congratulations 
to  President  David  O.  McKay.  In  gratitude,  and  with  thankful  hearts 
for  his  blessed  years  upon  the  earth,  we  rejoice  that  a  Prophet  of  the 
Lord  lives  among  us  and  directs  the  Church  and  all  its  activities  and 
organizations  through  the  power  of  revelation. 
In  these  latter  days,  in  a  time  of  multiplied  membership  in  the 
Church,  we  are  among  those  whose  hearts  are  lifted  up  to  know  thai? 
the  voice  of  President  McKay  has  been  heard  among  the  nations  an 
that  thousands  in  many  lands  have  looked  upon  his  face  and  have  par- 
taken of  the  inspiration  of  his  devoted  leadership.  From  early  manhood 
and  into  his  late  years.  President  McKay  has  carried  afar  the  message  of 
the  everlasting  gospel  and  has  bridged  the  continents  in  witness  of  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  He  has  visited  every  mission  of  the 
Church  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
It  is  our  prayer  that  President  McKay's  stirring  words  of  testimony, 
his  message  of  comfort,  his  witness  of  the  Christ  and  the  everlasting 
gospel,  may  be  long  upon  the  earth.  May  his  influence  be  upon  the  gen- 
erations to  come,  that  thousands,  from  the  shining  example  of  President 
McKay,  may  have  their  own  lives  illuminated  on  the  pafliway  of  eternal 
progress. 
636

""mmim^.- 
eptember  8,  1962 
*«?;^*^«.-^^^.^««*?«g,,^„»«g  •*  >,■»««»**    •yi^iy?**'^'*-* 
Great  Britain   Ireland 
Canada    Peru    Brazil    Argentina^ 
Uruguay  Mexico  Chile  Central  America 
South  Africa    Austria    Switzerland    Germany 
France    Netherlands    Norway    Sweden    Denmark 
Finland    Palestine   Syria    New  Zealand    Australia 
Jd|^n  Korea  Philippines  Rarotonga 
Tahiti   Fiji   Sanioa   China 
lawaii

ur  Redeemer 
'Tor  J  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter 
day  upon  the  earth  .  .  ."  (Job  19:25). 
LJE  who  can  thus  testify  of  the  hving  Redeemer  has  his  soul  anchored 
in  eternal  truth. 
That  the  spirit  of  man  passes  triumphantly  through  the  portals  of 
death  into  everlasting  life  is  one  of  the  glorious  messages  given  by  Christ, 
our  Redeemer.  To  Him  this  earthly  career  is  but  a  day  and  its  closing 
but  the  setting  of  life's  sun;  death,  but  a  sleep,  is  followed  by  a  glorious 
awakening  in  the  morning  of  an  eternal  realm.  When  Mary  and  Martha 
saw  their  brother  in  the  dark  and  silent  tomb,  Christ  saw  him  still  a 
living  being.  This  fact  He  expressed  in  the  two  words  '\  .  .  Lazarus 
sleepeth.  .  .  ." 
If  everyone  participating  in  Easter  services  knew  that  the  crucified 
Christ  actually  rose  on  the  third  day  from  the  tomb  —  that  after  having 
mingled  with  others  in  the  spirit  world.  His  spirit  did  again  reanimate  His 
pierced  body,  and  after  sojourning  among  men  for  the  space  of  forty 
days,  ascended,  a  glorified  soul,  to  His  Father  —  what  benign  peace  would 
come  to  souls  now  troubled  with  doubt  and  uncertainty! 
While  it  is  true  that  knowledge  of  individual  immortality  does  not 
depend  upon  the  actuality  of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus,  yet  the  establish- 
ment of  the  fact  that  He  arose  from  the  grave  and  communicated  with 
His  disciples  would  furnish  in  many  ways  the  strongest  support  of  that 
hope. 
638