[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Our McKay]
635 Birthday Congratulations to ( Sashes D with on his Eighty-Ninth Birthda oo - eee 55 - o le I ©. _ r, at a Seen - a > a _— a I At this time in the month of September, Relief Society women 'in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulati¢ os to President David O. McKay. In gratitude, and with thankful hearts for his blessed years upon the earth, we rejoice that a Prophet. Of t Lord lives among us and directs the Church and all its activities. 2 id organizations through the power of revelation., i — In these latter days, in a time of multiplied snernberstin "in. The™t Church, we are among those whose hearts are lifted up to nae; that~ et ry the voice of President McKay has been heard among the nations-and*) that thousands in many lands have looked upon his face and have-par taken of the inspiration of his devoted leadership. From early manhood and into his late years, President McKay has carried afar the message of "= _the everlasting gospel and has bridged the continents in witnessof- = dispensation of the fulness of times. He has visited every mission of Church upon the face of the earth. It is our prayer that President McKay's stirring words of tStimant (= his message of comfort, his witness of the Christ and the everlasting Bs gospel, may be long upon the earth. May his influence be upon the gef-s erations to come, that thousands, from the shining example of President) McKay, may have their own lives illuminated on the pathway of eten ne progress. = tg D peptember 8, 1962 Great Britain Ireland Canada Peru Brazil Argentina © )Uruguay Mexico Chile Central re +. South Africa Austria Switzerland Germany" ice Netherlands Norway Sweden Denmark Finlaiid Palestine Syria New Zealand Australia "a ur Redeeme "For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth " (Job 19:25). HE who can thus testify of the living Redeemer has his soul anchored in eternal truth.

[Our Redeemer Lives David O. McKay]
