[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Irene | Author: Board]
Irene B. Woodford Released from General Board — T is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the release" of Irene B. Woodford from the General Board of Relief Society as of August 15, 1962. Her release is necessitated by her appointment t the Adult Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Irene Briggs Woodford was called to the General Board on Februa 19, 1958. She came to this position with a thorough knowledge of Reli Society work and a background of gospel study and continuous service 1 the Church since her conversion in Canada in 1944. During her time of service as a member of the General Board, Sist Woodford has given unstintingly of herself. She has accepted eve assignment willingly and has been meticulous in the performance of ea one. She has served on the theology, social science, poetry, short sto convention, and mission lesson committees. Sister Woodford combines the proselyting spirit of a convert wi the seasoning gained from holding responsible Church positions. Brings to her new and important position both secular and gospel scho ship, coupled with rare judgment and a sweet spirit. The members of the General Board and Relief Society sisters eve where extend to her their appreciation and love and best wishes as $ begins her new Church calling. ERRATUM THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Hi. Dates for the Annual General Relief Society Conference, as announced on page 588 of the Magazine for August 1962, are in error. 'The correct dates are October 3 and 4, 1962, with schedules as follows: 'The General Session will be held on Wednesday, October 3, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It ls suggested that Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this General Session of the conference to which the general public is mvited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 3, from io to 12 in the 'Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 4, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 3, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. 656 Photograph by Harold M. Lambert The Summit Mabel Jones Gabbott I have reached the summit, and this place Is good; yet I have come too soon, or so It seems. I loved the climb; I loved to race The wind; I loved to flatten new laid snow With quick and eager step; to mount the rocks In conquest of the trail ahead, rough, Perhaps, but always up and new. Walks Now are smoother. Is it enough? The coming up held wonder, and the bend Of wisdom, and surprise, a constant store Of truth, fresh-cut; and challenges to send A mind full forward, to a heart's red core. Why am I so reluctant to descend? All this I have and more — much more. 657 Relvef Society -A Must Jeannene J. Nelson RIP, drip, drip. As Melinda 1) lay in bed, she could hear the familiar drip of the rain as it hit the tin air vent on the roof of their four-room house. Melinda wondered if it rained every day in Southern California, or if she and Les just moved here from Utah in an unusual year. At any rate, the rains came down every Tuesday — Relief Society day. 'To Melinda, the week just wasn't right unless she went to meeting. Relief Society was a must on her list of events. Today was a special day — theology and testimonies. 'The sisters' testimonies established strength for the whole month. And now for the news. "Well, rain or no rain, the clock radio still goes off, and Les still has to go to his teaching position at the engineering college," sighed Melinda as she jumped out of the cozy warm bed to catch the alarm before it went off. She and Les didn't really need to set the radio alarm, because fourmonth-old Bryan usually awakened at six. But then, there was always a chance that he might sleep until seven, and then everyone would be off schedule. Melinda prepared Les' breakfast of grapefruit, cereal, and milk. As usual, little blue-eyed Bryan was wide awake and anxious for his breakfast. 658 six o clock With Les off to school and Bryan back to bed, Melinda _ leisurely washed the breakfast dishes. Another rainy Tuesday, why does it rain on Relief Society day? Thought Melinda, as she watched the rain pour down into the already overflowing street. Because the Tain was coming so fast and hard, Les had driven to school. He usually walked on 'Tuesday. Melinda's thoughts were interrupted by a radio report: "Traffic is congested on Manchester and LaBrea, due to slick roads caused by the heavy rain. Motorists are advised to drive cautiously." "Guess I best forget about going today..." Melinda mused unhappily. As she scurried about the living room straightening the morning newspaper and setting yesterday's sewing in order, another news item came over the radio: "Sixty homes in South Inglewood have now been evacuated because of the flooding waters." Oh, dear, Melinda said to herself, these rains are taking control of everything. We had better stay home for sure. As Melinda was making this final decision, the telephone rang. "Hello. Oh, Sister 'Timothy, how are you this fine rainy morning?" Sister Timothy explained that she RELIEF SOCIETY — A MUST thought the rain had let up some, and she was going to go to Relief Society and take her two little boys. "I'd love to go, but it was raining pretty hard this morning, so Les drove to school. Oh, no, it's too far out of your way for you to come and get us," Melinda protested. Sister Timothy said that she would be over in fifteen minutes. "Come on, Bryan, we've got to hurry. You and your mother are going to Relief Society — rain or no rain." Bryan smiled up at Melinda as if to say, All right, Mom, it's all up to you. "Maybe we should call Daddy first and tell him we won't leave the door open for him when he comes home at noon." Melinda dialed the college number, and Les was called to the phone. "Les, Sister Timothy is going to stop and take us to Relief Society, so we won't leave the door open for you. Do you think it's all right for us to go?" As Melinda hung up the phone, she said to Bryan, "Daddy said to make our own decision. A big lot of help he is!" Bryan just continued to smile up at his mother. ELINDA and Bryan were ready when Sister Timothy pulled up in her white station wagon just outside the door. Melinda opened the door and dashed into the back seat. "Did you ever see so much rain?" Melinda asked. Sister Timothy replied, "I keep thinking that it will quit sometime. I've had the radio on, trying to de- 659 cide which way we should take to get to the chapel." Sister Timothy started out cautiously. The drains weren't taking the waters off very fast, and the streets were filling. "Maybe you should have brought an extra bottle in case we get stalled somewhere along the way," Sister Timothy remarked. "Maybe I should have. Well, we've just got to make it, Relief Society is a must." Melinda surveyed the streets as they progressed. Some of them had water flowing over the sidewalks. Maybe she and Bryan should have stayed home. "We can't go down Inglewood Avenue, look at the stalled cars. We don't want to be among them," Melinda said. "Shh, here's a weather report," Sister Timothy said quietly. "This is a news extra: Cars are stalled on Arbor Vitea and Inglewood. Motorists are advised to take other routes. Please drive carefully." "We can still make it down LaBrea, then," Sister Timothy was saying, as they drove cautiously along. Melinda continued to look down each overflowing street. After what seemed hours to Melinda, she heard Sister Timothy say, "Here we are, and it only took us twenty minutes. Looks like the rains are going to let up, too." Melinda, Bryan, Sister 'Timothy, and her two little boys darted for the chapel entrance. What a beautiful spirit dwelt inside. Every sister was so warm and _ friendly. Every effort was worth it — rain or no rain, they had made it to Relief Society. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 3 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, makes plans to spend the summer at the family mining claim in Montana, where assessment work is required to hold the property. After a long train trip and a hazardous ride up the mountain, the family arrives at the cabin in the wilderness. ARIAN ran up the dirt path M to the cabin. Sue's voice echoed such fright that Marian momentarily forgot her own fear of the wilderness. As _ she neared, she could hear the children's excited voices mingled with Sue's near hysteria. "What happened? What's the matter?" Marian hurried inside. "A bear, Mommy! A bear!" Baby Jill came running to Marian. "It was a wildcat," 'Tommy "a great big wildcat with." "Oh, Mother, it was a little old muskrat," Jim said. "That's the first time I've seen one so far away from water." "Maybe he was lost," said Jed. "Yes, he was lost," Tommy repeated. Marian felt like sinking in the nearest chair, her knees were so weak. She looked at Sue, who was still standing in a corner with both palms pressed against her cheeks. "Sue, everything's all right now, dear. It's gone." 'He won't come back again, Sue." Jim was quick to defend his wood 660 said, friends. "They don't like to be this far away from the water." "He squeezed outside under that board." Tommy pointed to the floor. "You scared him," Jed said. "Tll bet you did, Sue," Marian said. "He'll surely have something to tell his family about, won't he?" Sue managed a weak smile and relaxed. Marian put her arm around her shoulders. "How about helping me unpack some of these things, honey? We had better start getting something ready to eat." Jim and the twins brought in fresh water from the well and firewood from the shed. "Sure am glad Dad and I cut plenty of wood last fall," Jim said as he put an armful in a box behind the stove. The rest of the day was spent in getting things straightened around. Sue and Marian heated water and washed all the tin plates, cracked china, and black pots and pans they found in the cupboard. Jim got out the two coal-oil lamps, but there was no coal oil. There were four sleeping bags and several blankets on the bedroom shelves. Sue and Marian took the dusty bedding into the yard and shook it well. What I could do with my automatic washer, thought Marian! Jill kept close to Marian's heels, OUT OF THE WILDERNESS and Sue seldom went outside the cabin door, but the four boys were in their glory. Jim took the twins and Tommy to see his favorite haunts, and they gathered wild flowers and small rocks. Marian found a broom with only half a handle, but the more she swept, the dustier the floors seemed. "We'll have to make the beds as best we can until we get our other boxes," Marian told Jim and Sue. "You didn't bring any bedding, did you?" Jim asked. "Only some sheets and pillow cases." "Sheets and pillow cases ina cabin?" Jim smiled. "Mom, we don't need sheets." But Marian's look told him he hadn't better tease... Anyway, he knew she would find out soon enough that there were no pillows. Marian had to admit to herself that the cabin was quite cozy there in the dimming eventide. She looked from one child to the other and smiled to herself. Sue and Jim were just finishing up the dishes. The twins were taking stock of their treasured rock collection, while Tommy and Jill looked on admiringly. Marian found herself quite content, and even a little pleased with the day's accomplishments. UT, as she opened her eyes on Monday morning, Marian felt a hundred years old. All the bending, scrubbing, and trying to clean what would not come clean, had tired her. Even though they had rested on Sunday, the hard bed had made her flesh tender. She yawned and stretched, then her gaze followed the ray of sunlight from the small window across the floor to 661 where it rested in Jill's butter-yellow hair. Jill and Sue were sound asleep. 'They both had smiles playing at the corners of their mouths. Marian couldn't hear a sound from the next room where the boys were bedded down. 'This mountain air and the chores must be good for them, she thought, and she smiled to herself in spite of her aches and pains. The family took turns washing in the tin' basin, then dressed. 'They ate heartily the pancakes Marian made from the packaged mix. And though there was no milk this m