[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Out Wilderness]
Mending  the  broken  cell,  the  fractured  boneP 
You  cannot  pierce  the  tree-dark  wilderness. 
Where  cities  rise,  tomorrow,   tower-high; 
Or  see  their  scholared  men  intent  upon 
The  search  for  truth,   from  layered  earth  to  sky. 
Tracing  the  path  of  evidence  and  cause 
With  slide  rule  and  the  searching  lens; 
Defining  fossil  and  the  deuteron. 
But,  looking  Plymouthward,  how  well  you  see 
That  hunger  cuts  irrelevance  away. 
And  that  compassion  is  a  friendly  fire; 
That  memory  can  rear  a  sinewed  wall 
Against  the  apathy  of  lost  desire. 
Oh,  looking  Plymouthward,  how  well  you  see 
That  faith  grows  tall  to  meet  adversity. 
Need  you  see  more,  young  Bradford,  from  the  dunes? 
Four  months  after  the  arrival  of  the  Mayflower,  in  1620,  William 
Bradford,  age  thirty-one,  was  elected  Governor  of  Plymouth  Colony. 
He  held  the  position  for  approximately  thirty  years.  The  survival  and 
prosperity  of  the  Plymouth  Colony  were  largely  due  to  his  great  faith 
and  guidance. 
641 

Philadelpliia  Sui 
Significaiice  and  Sound  (To/e//erson  171 
Do  not  remember  Monticello  now. 
Or  tidelands  where  Rivanna  River  flows, 
The  pale  magnolia  night,  a  moon  full  set 
On  terraced  gardens,  cyclamen  and  rose. 
Do  not  recall  the  music  of  her  voice, 
A  meeting  of  the  eyes,  a  gilded  fan  — 
Remembrances  can  tear  the  hour  apart, 
And  you  must  speak  tonight  for  every  man. 
You  phrase,  rephrase,  then  write,  yet  write  again, 
Deep  urgencies  are  crying  to  be  heard  .   .  . 
"Created  equal  .   .   .  self-evident"  — 
Significance  is  focused  in  a  word. 
Oh,  do  not  dream  of  Monticello  now, 
Think  only  concept,  syllable,  and  sound; 
Your  phrases  will  be  sun  to  pierce  the  dark, 
Your  words  —  a  treasure- vessel  —  outward  bound: 
Thomas  Jefferson,  a  delegate  to  the  Continenta 
Congress  of  1776.  which  convened  at  Philadelphia 
Pennsylvania,  was  assigned  the  honor  of  draftint 
the  Declaration  of  huiependence.  Only  duty  tc 
country  could  lure  him  from  his  beautiful  Monticelk 
home  in  Virginia  and  his  beloved  wife  Marth 
Wayles  Jefferson. 

Q_0I*   (Constitutional  Convention,  1787) 
Prelude 
Although  unnumbered  summers  come  to  leaf 
And  pass,  as  winds  across  the  dormant  field, 
Leaving  no  imprint  on  the  land,  no  yield 
Of  image  in  the  heart,  this  heirloom  sheaf 
Of  days,  from  waning  May  through  mid-September, 
History  has  bound  against  time  and  ember. 
Of  Those  Who  Did  Not  Sign 
These  lines  are  of  a  patriot  three  who  stood 
Upon  the  edge  of  greatness;   each  declined 
That  immortality  time  has  assigned 
To  names  affixed,  for  evil  or  for  good. 
Conviction,  stoutly  held,  made  them  reject 
The  structure  they  had  labored  to  erect. 
Yet  here  is  testament  that  they  would  keep 
Its  basic  cornerstone  —  did  keep  and  use. 
And  here  is  witness   that  they  held  heart-deep 
The  sacred,  the  inherent  right  to  choose. 
Of  Those  Who  Signed 
These  are  the  signatures  of  seasoned  men, 
The  war  drum  silent  now,  its  passion  spent  .... 
Homespun  and  velvet  clothed  they  came, 
Wlio  sealed  approval  with  a  written  name 
To  \vords  engrossed  and  paragraphed  upon 
A  parchment  reservoir  of  clear  intent. 
Here  compromise,  opinion,   swift  debate. 
And  all  the  worded  currents  of  dissent 
Have  merged,  as  tributaries  to  a  stream 
Merge  into  even  flow.     Recall  how  deep, 
How  wisely  wide  the  channel  of  their  dream. 
How  like  a  lantern  hung  against  the  night  — 
These  signatures  of  freedom,  uncoerced; 
Like  pilot  flares  of  wonder  that  ignite 
The  embered  hope  to  flame  and  flame  again; 
How  like  a  spring  to  whitened  lips  that  thirst! 
These  are  the  signatures  of  men  who  made 
The  spirit  of  a  people  word-articulate; 
The  yearning  hope,  the  fear,  and  the  intensity 
Of   their  belief,    that   man   in   God's   design   is    free. 
^''(M 
["^i 
am 

Portrait  of 
Freedom 
A  Poem  Sequence 
Alberta  Huish  Christensen 
jrgJVb, 
x^^y 
Imraigraiit 
Speaking  i962 
They  ask  of  me,  for  they  do  not  knoNS', 
What  is  this  freedom  in  your  new  land? 
And  I  say  to  them: 
Freedom  it  is.  where  all  in  my  house 
Are  safe.  Men  do  not  take  us  away,  one  from 
another. 
And  freedom  it  is,  to  speak  all  things  — 
What  is  in  the  heart  and  what  comes  to  the  mind, 
Sometimes  they  are  happy  words. 
Sometimes  questions. 
In  my  new  land,  I  speak  all  words 
To  my  family,  to  friends,  to  all  people. 
Freedom  it  is,  to  speak  all  things. 
Most  wonderful  it  is,  the  right  to  believe, 
To  teach  the  little  ones  (nine  children  I  have) . 
No  one  there  is  to  stop  me. 
Saying,  "There  is  no  God." 
Freedom  it  is  —  the  right  to  believe. 
So  I  say  to  them,  for  they  do  not  know. 
Freedom  it  is,  that  does  not  build  a  wall. 
Freedom  is  my  country  —  my  new  land! 
644 

Do  Not  Forget  (Words  for 
Today) 
Do  not  forget  the  nights  upon  dark  water, 
The  pathless  waves  of  sea; 
Do  not  forget  the  bravery 
Of  men  seeking  uncharted  harbors. 
Wilderness  of  mountain  and  the  barrier  stream. 
Do  not  forget  their  dream 
To  own,  to  sow.  to  reap, 
And  then  to  sleep 
In  peace  and  unafraid. 
Recall  the  winter  months  at  Valley  Forge 
And  men  with  neither  shoes  nor  food; 
Remember  one  in  solemn  prayer 
Who  wept  for  them  — 
Who  wept  for  them,  in  the  white  wood. 
Do  not  forget  how  Founding  Fathers  built 
That  deep  foundation,  on  a  misty  reef; 
Their  shaping  of  conviction,  word  by  word, 
With  implements  of  phrase  not  used  before. 
Oh,  hold  inviolate  their  firm  belief. 
Recalling  one  who  framed  by  taper  light 
The  watchword  of  a  nation,  not  yet  born, 
Remember  yet  another,  lean  and  tall  — 
A  lonely  man  upon  a  lonely  road  — 
Anguished,    and    yearning    for    the    guns    to 
cease, 
Who  held  the  soul  enslaved. 
Too  great  a  price  for  peace. 
America,   my  Country. 
Do  not  forget. 
645 

Pka^e  ca//rne  7/M/ny 
Myrtle  M.  Dean 
ALLIE  Stevens  —  sixth  grade  — 
this  information  was  neatly 
printed  on  a  placard  and 
taped  just  outside  the  door  of  the 
room  in  the  Benton  school. 
Allie  was  there  early  to  greet  her 
pupils  as  they  came  in.  Thirty  seats 
ran  in  rows  through  the  room.  A 
frightening  sense  of  responsibility 
swept  through  her  as  each  child 
entered  and  looked  her  over.  Their 
new  teacher,  a  woman,  slight  of  fig- 
ure, and  an  easy  mark,  probably,  was 
the  judgment  many  of  them  were 
forming  right  now,  Allie  thought. 
After  a  brief  greeting  and  a  curious 
glance  at  her,  each  went  to  locate 
the  seat  he  preferred. 
The  students  who  lived  far  from 
the  school  came  in  on  buses.  It  was 
one  of  the  boys  who  came  with  this 
group  that  caused  Allie  to  wonder, 
and  left  her  vaguely  disturbed.  He 
came  in  hesitantly,  and  glanced 
about.  She  thought  the  look  he 
gave  her  held  more  than  mere 
curiosity.  He  did  not  search  about 
for  a  special  seat,  but  went  uncer- 
tainly to  the  back  of  the  room.  He 
sat  heavily  in  one  on  the  last  row. 
There  was  something  in  the  boy's 
646 
face  that  she  could  not  divine.  Was 
it  mere  shyness  or  heart  hunger,  or 
perhaps  the  boy  had  been  ill?  Some- 
thing in  his  eyes  made  Allie's  heart 
turn  over  in  sympathy  akin  to  pain. 
Allie  had  taught  school  in  her 
home  town  for  two  years  be- 
fore she  was  married.  David  was 
on  a  mission.  When  he  returned 
they  were  married  in  the  temple  and 
came  to  live  in  Benton,  David's 
home  town.  Little  Cindy  had  been 
born  a  year  later. 
Now  as  Allie  saw  fathers,  driving 
fine  cars,  stop  to  let  their  children 
out  for  school,  and  go  on  about 
their  business,  her  heart  gave  a 
wrench  of  pain.  This  morning  she 
had  left  Cindy  at  the  kindergarten 
for  her  first  day.  David  would  have 
been  so  proud  to  see  her  sparkling 
eyes  as  she  ran  to  the  teacher.  Why 
did  she  have  to  lose  David  when 
they  had  only  begun  their  lives  to- 
gether? she  had  asked  so  many 
times.  She  had  tried  hard  to  keep 
bitterness  out  of  her  heart  since  he 
died.  When  the  school  board  had 
asked  her  to  teach,  it  had  seemed  a 
challenge,  and  might  be  a  way  to 
turn    her  thoughts    from   her   own
