[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 644 | Special Feature | A Prophet in These Latter Days — Birthday Congratulations to President David | O. McKay]
A PROPHET I Birthday IN THESE [I Congratulations to LATTER DAYS fF President David 0. McKay @ Now in this time of autumn, there is rejoicing throughout the Church in many lands, and a feeling of praise and gratitude for the leadership, the direction, and the inspired counsel of President David O. McKay. In the wards and branches, in the stakes and missions, in all the borders and boundaries where the gospel message has been received, the saints, in their hearts, have a deep and abiding faith in President McKay as the prophet, seer, and revelator. For the women of the Church, the birthday of President McKay has special import and significance, for he has repeatedly counseled and advised and directed the sisters toward a full understanding of their privileges, their duties, and mission and blessings as wives and mothers and their responsibilities as members of the divinely established Relief Society. At this time, it is well to remember and to consider again the farreaching and eternal import of some of the treasured words of President McKay. The responsibility of Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home-building (""Home-Building As an Art,' The Relief Society Magazine, January 1936, page 10). Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. The mother's image is the first that stamps itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness the first assurance that there is love in the world ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," bid, January 1940, page 20).... The influence of Relief Society is rapidly becoming world-wide, that influence carries with it great responsibility. I emphasize this increasing power and influence of Relief Society and of womankind in general, having 644 et President David O. McKay one purpose in mind: That increased attention be given and more intensified effort put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true, civilized Christian society ('""Woman's Influence," Jbid, December 1950, pp. 798-799). Ever keep in mind that you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives... - Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Approach marriage with the lofty views it merits.... Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside.... Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home.... Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other. Learn the value of self-control. _.. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents ("Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home," Ibid, May 1953, pp. 284-285). The women of the Church acknowledge the goodness of the Lord in giving them the guidance and direction of his inspired prophet President McKay. We are grateful to President McKay for his tender, loving watchcare over the sisters of the Church 645 RNR KKK IIIT TI SRK eneees acattecacaconentetcecacecscetshctetatatstcestatatetenevaconeeeeecanenerereconeneeacererereceenen acacecececereserenee SORKIN HHH OSS KKK ene, oneee eee, eseee x en, one, - SKK XKKKS KR epentance SIRI octet, o oe KKKKK T KK MO Henry D. Taylor SSO RK; ' SSSR SRK Assistant to the Council of the Twelve RRR ecateronete SRK, 5S SO QORSS2 @ In the world today there are two forces at work, one attempting to build man up, and inspire and bless him. The other, one of evil and hate, leading to degradation or destruction or both.

The ancient prophet Mormon was aware of these forces, and wisely counseled his son Moroni: ''Wherefore, all things which are good cometh of God; and that which is evil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually. But God inviteth and enticeth to do good continually...". (Moroni 7:12, kB) These forces were at play even before we came to this earth. The scriptures relate the story of a great council that was held in the heavens where plans were discussed for peopling the earth. We learn that two plans were presented: one by God the Eternal Father, the other by Lucifer, the Son of the Morning.

The plan submitted by God 646 COCCCCCOCCCCCCCCCCC CCS SOY, COLO CECEEOOEOECOS eeceseeastatararererseseseseseseeeerennnsets RRR WLRLKS PCLLSSCCCCCCOCEEEEEECEEOS LLC CCCCCCCCOECEECCEECES LSSSCCCCCOCCCCCEECCECOOS S PCLSSOCCCOOCEEEEOEOEES eetebetehchctetetetctetetctchctetelcleten YQ the Father provided that man would have the right to choose between good and evil, and freely exercise his agency. Jehovah, who in this life became Jesus the Christ, accepted the Father's plan, and wanted all honor, credit, and glory to be given to the Father. Lucifer proposed that all of our Heavenly Father's children would be saved, but it would be by force, with no right to make choices. For the part he would play, he selfishly demanded that all honor and credit be given to him. When Lucifer's plan was rejected, he became angry, and, leading a third of the hosts of heaven after him, waged war against the righteous hosts led by Michael, a supporter of Jehovah. For his rebellion and disobedience, Lucifer and his followers were cast out of heaven, and denied the blessing of obtaining mortal bodies. He became known as Satan, the devil. associates ave been attempting Ofttimes Ww ponder the putto lea he souls of men astray poses of God in allowing us the through sim and wickedness rivilege of coming to earth. 1° another most important truth: was given vision in which he "For pehold, the Spirit of Christ beheld 4 large assemblage of is given to every man, that he spiritual beings: (Moroni Be And there stood one ong them The P ophet Jo eph Smith that was like unto God, and he sal _ unto those ere W th him e jearned of the tw powers indiwill £0 down, f there lS space there, cated above one of hi annual and we will take of th materials, e have glory } the same kingdom Wl who 18 Satan, rT hi innumer those who ke their first estate; an able associates. H Pro het was they wh keep their secon estate given an planation this eXoon bas glory — por ne perience when it was pointed ou es oe = ever (Abraham that Those of us who kept out first re, the estate were privileged to come to glory of God and the power of darkearth and possess mortal bodies, Bess, that you may now hereafter the to prove ourselves and determine two powers and never be influenc. Or overcome by that wicked oné.- - - ia would keep our second (Comp. Hist. Vol. 1, pages 18-79) - estate by doing all that our As we think of Satan going do. In this new experience we about his diabolical way> leading are allowed to make decisions, appealing to th weaknesses © the Tl to choose, for W ich the flesh, We may b assured 0 principle Jehovah fought so val one simp bu fundamenta jantly against S in the wat ray for strength d strive W! Tentionally We shou d learn DY all our might to keep the comour mistakes and avoid repeating mandments f the Lord We them The Lord, 17 his wisdom, can be stronger han the forces kindness, and mercy has proof the adversary: vided a Way hat we can be forSubmit yourselves therefore to God.: Resist the devil, and he will flee from by and through the beautiful you.
