[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 655 | Fiction | A Dress for Sherry Lynn Frances | C. Yost]
Frances C. Yost We were all glad when Mama took the dressmaking course sponsored by the Relief Society. We were glad for a lot of reasons. For one, it gave Mama three days of vacation with her friends. Mama is sort of isolated on our farm, and it did her the world of good to be able to chat and sew and try on with the other ladies taking the course. Instead of taking lunches, the sewing class went over to the school cafeteria and ate dinner the same as we students do. When I knew Mama was coming over for lunch, I sort of hung around the cafeteria after I had eaten, just to see Mama. She's so pretty, and she is always so glad to see any of our family. You would think she would get tired of us, but she doesn't seem to. Whenever Mama sees us, especially if she hadn't expected to, she seems as happy as if Santa Claus had dropped in unexpectedly in the middle of June. As I said, we were all happy when Mama took the dressmaking course. We are happy because we knew if Mama learned to sew she could make things for us. Mama had been too timid to try to sew. And It's mighty expensive to buy dresses for three girls, even if you watch the sales, as Mama always does. I remember so well Mama saying: "Now you girls help all you can with the work each morning so I can take the dressmaking class. I'm to make a cotton dress for myself, and when I've finished I'll know how to lay out a pattern, how to fit, how to sew, and how to press. And would you believe it, I'll learn a little about modeling! And then I'm going to teach all three of my girls everything I have learned. And besides that, I'm going to start right in sewing for you girls." You can imagine how excited and thrilled Margaret Ann and Nancy and I were when she said that. Of course we pitched in and made beds and did dishes and everything before school, and after. Mama's dressmaking class went well, and Mama said she enjoyed every minute of it. We were all so proud when Mama wore the dress she made herself. Nancy and Margaret Ann and I could hardly wait until the day that Mama would take us all shopping for fabric for our first dresses. THEN one day when Mama was going to town she said: "Sherry Lynn, shine your shoes and wash real well, and put on your brown plaid dress, and you can go shopping with me. I believe if we will be extra careful on grocery buying this week, we can buy some fabric for a dress, and I'll try to make it."' I must have looked disappointed, instead of bubbling joyfully as Mama had expected, because Mama said: "Sherry Lynn, don't you want to go shopping for fabric for a dress?" "Ves, Mama, but." I didn't have the heart to tell Mama that Nancy and Margaret Ann and I had talked about all going shopping together for fabric for each of us. We had visualized Mama sewing up three dresses in quick time. In our dreams we had just forgotten that Mama had to plan and figure to buy extras, and that fabric for. Dresses for us three just wouldn't come all at once. We should have known that we would have to take turns, as we always did, with shoes and winter coats and things. I looked at Nancy. She's two 656 years older than I. I wouldn't want Nancy to feel hurt about not going to buy fabric. Nancy is so very pretty, and she's just as nice as she is pretty. But Nancy was looking happy about Mama's taking me. I looked at tiny Margaret Ann. She's two years younger than I. Why hadn't Mama promised her the first dress? Margaret Ann is a cute little pixie. You just can't help but love Margaret Ann.

I thought Margaret Ann would break into tears and beg to have the first dress, but little as she is, she seemed happy that I had been chosen. "Do you want to go and pick out the fabric, Sherry Lynn, or would you rather I bought something in which you would look nice?" "Oh, I would rather go, Mama! It's just that I had hoped Margaret Ann and Nancy could go and get some yardage, too. If you would rather let one of them go, I could wait." Mother is always so lavish with praise if she thinks we are unselfish, and she hugged me close, and said I was a good girl, and she would like very much to take all three, but their time would come. I wondered why Mama had chosen me to be first on the dressmaking list. Then I remembered the book on psychology Mama had been reading which pointed out that the middle child was often neglected, and I knew why I had been picked out to be the first for a new dress. So that's how I happened to go shopping with Mama. We looked at material in all of the dry goods stores. Then there it was, the fabric I really wanted. It was draped around a manikin and it was beautiful! I wish that I could paint a picture of this yardage. If you will think of the prettiest single pink rose you have ever seen, add a couple of lovely green leaves and a tiny stem, and then lay that one rose on a pale pink background, you will have a swatch of the cloth. Now think of dozens of this same lovely pink rose, and you will have the yardage which I chose. Mama liked the fabric, too. I could tell by the light in her eyes and her big smile. But she frowned slightly when she saw the price per yard. It was more expensive than she had wanted to pay. Mama felt the cloth and studied it carefully. I knew she was taking a thread count. I didn't pester about buying this certain piece, but stood close by, with my eyes squeezed tightly shut, and said a silent prayer, ever so hopefully, that Mama would decide on this lovely rose fabric for my very own dress. When the clerk came up and asked if she could help, Mama said, '""We want a length of this material, but I want to buy a pattern first." My heart did some flip flops, I was so happy. Going through the pattern book was fun, too, and then we saw the exact pattern we wanted. Mama had the clerk get the pattern which was my age size, and we went back to the fabric counter. I was glad to get there because I feared someone might come and buy the whole bolt of lovely rose fabric while we were picking out a pattern. A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN The clerk was about to cut the cloth the length the pattern called for when Mama said, "Please give me an extra yard." I knew what Mama was thinking. Mama wasn't right sure of her dressmaking ability yet, and if she should make a mistake, she wanted enough cloth to cut another sleeve, or waist, or whatever might be needed. Mama let me carry the package after the clerk wrapped up the fabric, the zipper, the thread, and the pattern. I don't know when I have been so happy, as I was walking out of the store with it tucked under my arm. WHEN we went to the grocery store, Mama bought only the essentials. And I didn't tease for goodies, as I have sometimes. Valentine's Day was on its way, and Mama promised she would get the dress made by then. I could hardly wait for Mama to start working on the dress. Then one day, after Mama was caught up with the washing and ironing and the mending and darning, she started cutting out the dress. Since the pattern we had bought was just my size, Mama sewed while I was in school, and didn't have to fit it. When Nancy and Margaret Ann and I came home from school Mama said happily: 'Well, I have your dress all finished, Sherry Lynn." It was beautiful hanging there on a hanger. The dress had a fitted bodice, and a really full gathered skirt. The sleeves came almost to the elbow with a ruffle around the edge. Because the dress had the lovely rosebuds all over, it just didn't need extra 


 trimming. My heart almost stoppped_ with rapture as [I slipped into the dress, while my sisters and Mother watched. "Oh, dear!" I looked at myself in the mirror, The dress hung big and queer, Mama was so disappointed I did not say a word. She started pinching in the waist, and trying to raise the skirt, but we all knew to make the dess fit me, would be more work than she had already done to make it. "Let Nancy try it on, Mama." I must admit I was fighting tears, but I wasn't going to break down and cry in front of Mama when she had worked so hard to make it. I let the dress fall off me, and handed it to Nancy who put it on. A dress just couldn't have fit anyone better than that dress fit Nancy. "It's yours, Nancy," I said, smiling. I was happy for her to have it, but disappointed. Oh, let's face it, I was so disappointed I could hardly stand it. Nancy stood sort of primping in front of the big mirror, but she said, 'Sherry Lynn, I just could not take it from you. Mama, let's put it away until Sherry grows into it." Mama's mind was racing ahead of all of us. Sherry Lynn, and I haven't wasted a speck. Actually I cut it out to advantage. Pll just use some pale pink and Dll design you a dress out of what is left, and it will be really clever." Mama picked up a pencil and started sketching on an envelope. The dress she designed, I wish you could see, but I'll try to tell you about it. The yoke was of 658 plain pink and on each shoulder was appliqued a single rosebud cut from the fabric. Then the lower part of the bodice was of the rosebud material. A full overskirt with scallops was of the rosebud fabric over a plain pink skirt. We could all see at a glance that the dress Mama had designed would be just as lovely and quite a bit fancier and cleverer than the one she had just' finished. All three of us jumped for joy and shouted, "Make it, Mommie, just as you have designed it," Mama had a lot to do, but the day before Valentine's day she finished the dress, When we came home the dress was hanging, just waiting for me to slip into it. It was so lovely, I could just see myself at school looking like a valentine all wrapped in pink and rosebuds. Nancy took the dress from the hanger, and held it for me to slip into, as I hurried to take off my brown plaid dress, "Nancy! I'm smothering, [ can't get through!" "Oh, dear, it's too little," Mama moaned. And it was too small. There just wasn't any use trying to shove big old me into it, so I took it off before I tore it, T held up the dress, just loving it, and looked at cute little Margaret Ann. "Put it on, honey," I said. Margaret Ann slipped into it, and it fit perfectly. She looked as cute and beautiful and lovely as a cupid could. I'm not selfish, and I was really glad for Nancy to have the first dress, and for Margaret Ann to have the second one, but I was so disappointed I knew I would cry like a baby if I stayed there a second longer. I ran clear upstairs and hid myself deep in the closet. Hidden away all by myself, I cried and cried. After all the tears in my system were cried out, I started to analyze myself. I wasn't crying because Nancy and Margaret Ann had new dresses. I had wanted that all the time. I was crying because I had told all the girls in my class that on Valentine's Day I was going to wear a dress Mama had made for me. I just couldn't face the girls at school with my same old dark brown dress. But there in the closet, I decided I would have to, and I crawled out of my hiding place and washed up and went down for supper. THe next moming Nancy turned over in our bed and looked at me. I could tell she hadn't done much sleeping either. Then she spoke sort of timidly and softly so no one would hear. "Sherry Lynn, do you mind if I wear the rose petal. Dress for Valentine's Day?" "Of course not. I want you to wear it. It was made to be worn on Valentine's Day, and it is yours to wear." Margaret Ann, sleeping in the little single bed next to us, turned over then and spoke to me. "Sherry Lynn, is it all right if I wear my new dress today, too?" "Of course it's all right, Margaret Ann. I'd feel bad if you didn't wear it." I laughed and shrugged my shoulders, as I pulled on my same old plaid dress, then slipped on A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN my work apron. I hurried down first to help Mama with the breakfast.: As I walked into the dining room there hung my white Sunday blouse. I should have known Mama would stay up and wash and iron it so I would look nice for Valentine's Day, too. But can you imagine my surprise when I saw beside the blouse a bright red corduroy jumper! Mama was smiling ever so sweetly when she spoke. "Sherry Lynn, I've stayed up half the night making this jumper, and if it doesn't fit, I'll chew the whole thing up like our billy goat would." I didn't have to be told to take off my dress and try it on. As I unpeeled my old brown dress Mama stood ready to slip the jumper over my head. I smoothed the skirt and moved in front of the big mirror and then just gasped. It fit perfectly, and I looked really neat and tailored and trim. I had thought lately I was too big for kisses, but I knew then that no one is too old to show love and appreciation. I turned and hugged Mama hard, and kissed her on the cheek. As I did, her salty tears and mine blended into great big tears. But we didn't care, we just hugged each other even more. As we left home to go to school with our valentines in a box, Nancy and Margaret Ann and I were singing, '""My Funny Little Valentine."" And in my heart I was thanking my Heavenly Father for giving me such a wonderful mother, and giving us all three Valentine dresses at once. 659
