[Vol10 | August 1923 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Call of the Hills Helen Kimball Orgill]
The commercial value of by-products is evident. Not a few industrial institutions make their profit from the sale of the by-product rather than from their leading article. By-products in the spiritual realm are of very great importance. Recently a lecturer visiting our state said. "Character has been styled a by-product of duty well done." During the recent visit of President Harding, we had as guests in Salt Lake City four persons prominent in educational work in the state of Massachusetts. They had frequently been at meetings where the Chief Executive of the Nation was the guest of honor and the speaker of the evening. They had listened to President Harding on not a few occasions; yet they say that this is the first time that they have even known a gathering of this sort to be opened and closed with prayer. They characterized the meeting as most impressive. The organ recital, the anthem, the invocation and benediction, the unity and seriousness of spirit manifested by the audience were after all the things which gripped their souls. These were by-products, but to our guests, unused to secular meetings conducted in such fashion, they were the things of greatest import.
The Motherhood of Marcia Helen Kimball Orgill
The Class Sorority Reunion went pleasantly on. Seven young matrons, with reminders of by-gone days, were jovially entertaining themselves. Drifting from one subject of conversation to another they finally spoke of certain girlish ambitions of some ten years previous.
"I wonder who of us is realizing the dreams of youth?" questioned Dorothy Garner, the brilliant student of the class.
"Most of us aimed at careers, but right in our hearts, I think we wished for love in a cottage," laughingly answered little Bessie Lovering.
"Yes, but I haven't given up music by any means," cried Gloria Strong, who had been reared in the lap of luxury. "And Fred doesn't want me to, either."
"And I am still interested in Civic Welfare," declared Stella Grey, assuming a pompous air. Indeed, none wished to be considered a sluggard in the eyes of the others.
"If I remember correctly," began Della Bernard, "Marcia is the only one who openly declared that nothing would please her more than to be the proud possessor of a large family of boys and girls."
All eyes were turned to Marcia Blain who chanced to be the only Latter-day Saint among them. She was tall and slender with violet-blue eyes and dark wavy hair. There was a certain air of distinction about her which the others did not possess. She was indeed a lady with some of the purest of the royal blood of Israel flowing through her veins. But today Marcia did not meet their gaze with the old time enthusiastic defense of her ideals.
"You're living up to your early intentions Marcia?" said Bessie, "I'd call three children already, a pretty good beginning."
"And another one expected." There was a note of bitterness in Marcia's voice which her friends did not fail to notice. "But believe me, it will be the last one," she finished.
"Oh, I don't blame you." They were unanimous in their sympathy, considering that she had done her part well. But in spite of their attitude, how cowardly she felt, how disloyal to her cherished motherhood! She remembered, how during the university school days she had ever valiantly upheld the principles of her religious faith to these young girls of other denominations, winning the love and respect of each one, and


was this the end of it all? Her very words today had proved to them that her religion was too idealistic to be practical. She was indeed too miserable to heed the earnest discussion which her words had occasioned.
"Of course, I want children," conceded Bessie, "that is, a boy and a girl. That is all the average person can afford to rear in these strenuous times."
"Yes," Gloria seemed to be thoughtfully choosing her words, "after I'm successfully settled in my musical career, I'd like one. It might interfere with our plans, before then."
"Don't feel bad, Marcia, four isn't such a large family," one tried to console her, "my grandmother had ten."
But Marcia's troubled look came from a deeper cause than her old school-mates discerned. The subject was soon changed and farewells were being said. With forced gayety Marcia made her adieus, being anxious to feel the cooling breeze upon her throbbing temples.
Deciding to walk rather than take a street car she quickened her pace and soon felt the exhilaration of the exercise. As she reviewed the conversation of the afternoon, her mind kept reverting to an incident of several days previous when she had informed her handsome young husband of her expectancy. He had answered most irately, "Good land." It was inconceivable that her Garth, who upon similar occasions had been her comfort and mainstay, should act in this way, when one kind word meant so much. It was true that he was hungry and tired at the time and tried afterwards to make it up but the sting remained.
When Marcia finally reached home, the sound that first met her ears was a croupy cough, emitted from the direction of the children's bed room. It was four-year-old Jimmy, taking his belated afternoon nap. This but added to her feeling of woe, for by living up to a household budget, the little fellow had gone without rubbers. Rubbers did wear out in such a short time when people were having difficulty in getting ahead, financially.
But soon baby Grace was burying her dimpled hands in "Muzzie's" hair and troubles were for the time being forgotten. It was not often that the young mother was able to leave home for a whole afternoon, the girl who assisted with the house work attended school. Assuming a cheerful mien, Marcia took possession of her little home again. But the equanimity of other days was decidedly disturbed. It was disconcerting to say the least for one to feel certain, deep-rooted ideals fairly rock and reel as if ready to fall in ruins,
THE MOTHERHOOD OF MARCIA 389
As if in defense of herself Marcia thought of different ones of her acquaintances. "Not many of them are having large families," she mused. "Even Erma Mason, the most fervently religious girl in the ward stopped at three." But no peaceful decision could be arrived at.
Small wonder is it that the morrow being washday everything seemed to go wrong. The children were more troublesome than usual though their mother was sensible enough to know that they but mirrored her own mood. But Marcia felt that the worst part of the day had arrived when at one o'clock amid a cluttered confusion of lunch, recently partaken of, and unstraightened house after the wash was over, Mother Blain entered immaculate in her lavender and white.
"I was on my way to Mrs. Bond's reception and thought I would just slip up the back way and say 'hello.'" Mentally Marcia was not giving a very pleasant welcome, but she tried to be cordial. "Do come in the front room, away from all this," waving around the room. There was a slight quiver in her voice which the mother-in-law, being quick of perception, noted. In spite of the pleasant greeting, with her understanding heart she felt that all was not right with Marcia. The air seemed surcharged with a discordant something.
"How are you, dear?" The kindly-toned voice expressed a world of sympathy and an evasive answer choked in the younger woman's throat. In a moment her troubles were being told with a tumultuous outpouring of the heart.
"Yes, my child, I think I understand," were the gentle words spoken. "But come now, you need a change. Slip on a fresh house apron and come home with me, for the afternoon."
Marcia looked bewildered. Half a dozen excuses shaped themselves but before they were uttered the mother-in-law continued: "I'll send Hannah over to straighten up for you and we'll phone Garth to come there for dinner tonight; now I'll help get the children ready."
Soon the little procession was winding its way through the back lane, little Grace clinging to "gramma's" fingers with Kathleen and Jimmie racing back and forth, full of the exuberance of childhood.
"You shouldn't have missed that reception, mother," reproached Marcia.
"O, that was of no importance," she answered with a small wave of the hand.
After performing the few tasks allotted the maid, the two


women went out to enjoy the cool of the late afternoon upon the front veranda.
"Of course," Mother Blain began, "times have changed and people have changed with them but the Latter-day Saints should at least remain true to their ideals. The Lord expects us to be different, for did he not say, 'Come out of here, oh, my people'"
"Oh, I know it sounds all right, but there are many drawbacks and I'm beginning to think people are right in curtailing their families according to circumstances," said Marcia.
"How often I've heard my dear old mother tell of pioneer days," continued Mother Blain, with all their hard times each woman had one great ambition and that was to rear a worthy family to God. Circumstances seldom stood in the way, so determined were they to do the right. But modern ideas and times have had their effect and occasionally we forget that we have a birthright to guard; some, I'm sorry to say, are selling theirs."
"And one by one these grand old pioneers are passing to the great beyond. We need them to remind us to live up to our privileges," said Marcia very thoughtfully.
"Yes we do," answered the older woman. "How would you and the children like to go out into the country for a couple of weeks with me? I know of an old house where boarders are welcome."
"Oh, nothing would please me more, but you know Garth and I had planned our vacation later in the summer."
"Well, go then, too. This is my treat, so you won't refuse, will you? We can fix matters up with Garth all right."
Marcia did not refuse; she was only too glad to get away from the household grind for a spell. Feeling all out of tune with the world and herself she welcomed any change that might mend matters. However, it was harder to part with Garth than she had imagined, for it was their first separation since marriage. But he cheerfully helped the little party off, never confessing the loneliness which obsessed him. After a few hours' ride through shifting scenes of country life the train pulled up at a small station. They were met by a jovial, middle-aged farmer, who escorted them to a two-seated buggy drawn by lead-grey mares. Their hearts were warmed at once by the hospitable manner of their host.. _s "You've picked the right time to come," he began when once they started to swing at an easy gait along the sandy road. "Strawberries are in full swing and the trees are red and black with cherries." "O, goody, goody," cried Kathleen and Jimmy in chorus. "I know we'll have a lovely time," cried their mother partaking of the enthusiasm of her offspring. How good it did seem in the days which followed to taste of the joys of country life. THE MOTHERHOOD OF MARCIA 391 But never was Marcia happier than when sitting out in the shade watching the children in their bare-foot glee and listening to the words of wisdom as they flowed from the lips of her mother-inlaw. Having been motherless since early childhood she fully appreciated the kindly interest of this noble woman. "For several years,' she began one afternoon, "there has been a spirit of restlessness among the women of the world. They have begun to question the world-old platitude that motherhood is woman's noblest calling. The word 'career' begins to be more popular than 'mother.' Naturally our Latter-day Saint women have caught the spirit to a certain extent and a great danger threatens. Oh, how my heart thrills when I think of the lessons our Bee-Hive girls are receiving. I'm certain that the plans were Heaven-inspired. And in these girls lie the hope of motherhood in our Church." In rapt attention Marcia sat, and as the words were finished her gaze shifted to a hill some two miles distant which rose higher than the surrounding ones. "J'm going to climb that hill this afternoon," she remarked, "when it gets cooler." To her companion's questioning glance she answered, "I must have it out with myself." Ah! Wise young person that she was to have thus early learned such a great truth! Those who have reached the heights and found places in our halls of fame could never have done so had it not been for the hours which they have spent in solitude, feeling the throbbings of the universe, listening to the voice of Nature. Yes, Nature has messages for all of us if we would hie ourselves away from the "maddening throng," for she speaks her most eloquent language in the silence. For about a mile Marcia followed a barbed wire fence which separated the sagebrush hills from the farm lands. Then she started off over the hills and was soon climbing toward her destination. As the ascent became steeper she had to break a trail through the 'underbrush, now and again. The walk was exhilarating and she enjoyed it immensely. Near the top, spying a flat boulder, she sat down upon it. Then glancing around at the rustic scene she was soon conscious of a certain cadence and rhythm which permeated this secluded spot. There was a gentle swishing of the bushes, in the breeze, interspersed with the melody of the winged songsters. Even the chirping sound of a cricket seemed to have a place in the harmonious whole and Marcia felt thrilled to know that she also belonged to the vast scheme of things. The problems of creation seemed more easily solved under such conditions. She felt that every plant, bird, or insect, recreates itself according to will divine. Marcia was looking down the hill at some larkspur, growing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the rank beauty of its primal freedom, and she thought, "No more right have I to eliminate the use of the God-given function of Motherhood than have those flowers, were it possible, to cease blooming." 'Then she poured out her soul in gratitude to the Creator of us all, that this awakening had not come too late; that she might yet fulfil her destiny and become a worthy mother in Israel. A feeling of joy and elation possessed her. How she longed to get home and take out her volume of Perfect Jewels, and read from the old masters. She was certain she could do it more understandingly now. Then glancing at the sun just dropping out of sight beyond the distant hills, she rose and retraced her footsteps. When about half way back she met the children with their grandmother. All three were chattering at once, telling what had happened during mother's absence. But Mother Blain silently - studied her countenance, she must have felt satisfied for she offered a silent prayer of thanksgiving. While his family was away from home, the young father being of steady habits, spent most of his evenings at home in the little bungalow reading or working around the place. His mother had left two books, casually suggesting that he read them. One, whose title was, Auto Suggestion did not at first look enticing, but was soon absorbing his attention and interest. He was led to see the wonderful possibilities of what psychologists call suggestion in the study of the mind. Garth Blain had begun married life with the vision of as bright a future as could be desired. He had taken a position with an advertising firm which suited his talents well. His employers recognized his ability and gave every reason to believe that he would be advanced in the firm, but these promotions had never come. Others had been chosen in his stead. Garth could not tell why, had any one asked him, but the fact was that he had drifted into a rut. Upon several occasions -when he was discussing different phases of business success with friends and acquaintances the remark had been dropped, that "You can't raise a family and get anywhere now-a-days." The psychologists could have told Garth that heeding these statements, began the slump in his business career. After reading the above-mentioned book he sat in deep thought. Then it came to him like a dash of cold water in the face of his lethargic consciousness that success is not measured by the number dependent upon a man, but rather by his point of view. He had known it before in a hazy sort of way, and in fact the book had said as much but this particular truth seemed to come from some divine source for his individual good. At any rate, he was impressed and determined to try out the principle, THE MOTHERHOOD OF MARCIA 393 not saying anything about it to anyone, which was a good thing, for Satan is ever on the alert to thwart, our "right about faces" in life. It is therefore best to keep him in ignorance as much as. Possible. So it was a wiser and happier Garth who met his dear ones at the station a few evenings later. After embracing each one in turn he looked intently at his wife, exclaiming, "I say Marcia, you're looking ten years younger." Laughingly, she met his gaze and declared, "The best part of going away is returning." A few months later Marcia was seated in an easy chair in the cozy, little living room. Serenely she was looking at a downy little head nestled in a crib, marveling over her happiness. Garth had received a promotion in the firm with prospects of another soon. The future indeed looked bright. The door bell rang and a caller was ushered in. It was Erma Mason. After greetings were over, she continued, "I hope you'll forgive me for not coming sooner, Marcia, but I just couldn't. The sights of these little new borns fill me with, what shall I say? Well, jealousy for one thing. You know the greatest unhappiness in my life is caused from the fear that perhaps I shall have no more." "Erma, is that true? Do you really want more?" "Why Marcia, did you think differently?" Surprise was registered in both countenances, but Erma never guessed what this confession meant to her friend, for through it a shattered ideal was rebuilt. Be a Friend Be a friend. You don't need money, Be a friend. You don't need glory. Just a disposition sunny; Friendship is a simple story. Just the wish to help another Pass by trifling errors blindly; Get along some way or other; Gaze on honest effort kindly; Just a kindly hand extended Cheer the youth who's bravely tryOut to one who's unbefriended; ing; Just the will to give or lend, Pity him who's sadly sighing; This will make you some one's Just a little labor spend friend. On the duties of a friend. Be a friend. The pay is bigger (Though not written by a figure) Than is earend by people clever In what's merely self-endeavor. You'll have friends instead of neighbors For the profits of your labors; You'll be richer in the end Than a prince, if you're a friend. ?Anonymous. Selected. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS, 1923 Relief Society Nurses Relief Society Nurses Receive One-Year Certificates Fourteen Relief Society nurses, completing a one-year course at the Groves L. D. S. Hospital, were awarded certificates Wednesday evening, June 23, 1923, at the exercises held in the Relief Society reception room at the Bishop's Building. The nurses committee had attended to the preparation of the room, decorating it in roses. At the appointed hour Ethel R. Smith, of the General Board, played a march and the nurses with Miss Josephine Eagar entered the room and took the seats assigned. Counselor Jennie B. Knight acted as chairman for the occasion. The following program, which proved both pleasing and profitable, was carried out: The opening number was the hymn, America, sung by the congregation. Prayer was offered by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts who, in 1898, began the first nurses' course. A report of the work of the class was made by Miss Josephine Eagar who has had charge of the young women at the L. D. S. Hospital. This was followed by a violin solo by Prof. Kenneth Roylance. Miss Geneva Frost, of Riverton, presented a paper on the value of the Relief Society One-Year Training Course. Mrs. Lillian H. Coles entertained with two readings. Two numbers, with violin obligato by Prof. Kenneth Roylance and piano accompaniment by Miss Emma Ashton, were rendered by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, the musical director of the General Board. The address to the graduates was made by Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve, who reminded the nurses that whatever knowledge they may have is but a small portion of the marvelous knowledge of God, and he admonished them in cases where they are at a loss to know what were best to do to seek the Lord for guidance rather than to experiment. ~ President Clarissa S. Williams made a brief address to the nurses, telling them to honor their calling. She reminded them that they should not desire to seek in any way the honors of the three-year graduates, and trusted that everything they did would be in honor. She then presented the certificates to the nurses as they filed past her to the music of the piano. Elder B. F. Grant, superintendent of the L. D. S. Hospital, before offering the benediction expressed his satisfaction in the fact that the Relief Society had established a nurses' course in connection with the L. D. S. Hospital, and said that he thought it pas one of the best pieces of work that the Relief Society was loing. 
 At the close of the program light refreshments were served in an adjoining room and the graduates had an opportunity to visit with those who had assembled for the evening's exercises. In order that the readers of the Magazine may have some information in detail in relation to this class, we are publishing herewith the report presented by Miss Josephine Eagar: Annual gd of the Relief Society One-Year Course in the L. D. S. Hospital I present to you the annual report of the third graduating class of the Relief Society one-year training course for nurses, at the Dr. W. H. Groves L. D. S. Hospital. Beginning August 1, 1922, our enrollment was 6. August 2, 1922, eleven more young ladies reported for duty, making a total of 17. December 31, 1922, the number enrolled was 16, one having completed the time required in the hospital and one having returned to her home on account of physical ailments and one extra entering. During the first two weeks of January, 1923, four more had completed their work with us and returned to their homes, leaving an enrollment of 12. January 15, 1923, eight more girls were admitted, giving us a total of 20, two of whom had finished the required time with us during the month of February, giving us on March 1, 1923, an enrollment of 18. At present we have an enrollment of 14, a loss of four since March, all of whom have returned to their homes, some on account of physical ailments and others due to inability to adapt themselves to the work. Tonight we are graduating these 14 young ladies, ten of whom will complete their work in the hospital within the next few weeks, some having to remain longer on account of sickness, while the other four will not have finished until December of the present year. During their stay with us these girls are privileged to spend their time in the hospital, doing practically the same work as the regular training school girl during her first. Year of training and are under the same regulations. In addition to their regular class work, arrangements are made whereby every girl is priviledged to attend some religious service on Sunday and Mutual Improvement meetings while in session. Twice a month we have been highly honored by an invitation to join with the three-year girls in listening to some of the best speakers in the city on religious and other interesting topics, as well as some very enjoyable musical programs, Our morning devotional exercises have been a source of great pleasure to us, at which time, we joined in song, reading and prayer. One of the to-be-remembered events of the year was our Christmas eve social. We hope that the coming year may RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES 397 bring us a number of social occasions, for we have felt the need of more such activities in the home. We feel very much indebted to a number of the doctors who have given their time in lecturing on vital subjects pertaining to our work, and for their devoted attention in time of sickness, we appreciate also the consideration and courtesies extended to us by the hospital management. We have been visited only a few times by the members of ? the General Board of the Relief Society, due no doubt, to the fact that a great many things demand their attention. You will notice, by referring to your program, that only one member of this class is a permanent resident of Salt Lake City, the others coming from different parts of Utah, as well as other states where doctors and nurses are scarce and where much of the caring for the sick is done by any person who is willing to assume that responsibility. How much better these girls will be able to meet these conditions, we are able to judge only by the favorable reports that have reached us about former graduates. A In their close associations together the girls have put forth - their best efforts, each having been a stimulus to the other, both in their studies, and in their work in the hospital. They have been conscientious, dutiful and energetic. I have enjoyed very much my association with these girls, and trust that they will go on seeking knowledge along the lines that will better prepare them for their chosen calling. May they have joy and deep satisfaction in their work, which will come only by earnest and persistent efforts, coupled with faith and dependence on Him who is ever ready to help those who seek Him. ?Josephine Eagar. Appended to Miss Eagar's Report is a List of the Names of the Relief Society Nurses With Their Respective Homes Miss Maybelle Collette........  Smithfield, Utah Miss Margaret Cutler........................ Burley, Idaho Miss Geneva Frost...........Riverton, Utah Miss Melva Gilbert.........Arcadia, Utah Miss Carrie E. Hall....................... Showlow, Arizona Miss Mildred Hansen............. Elsinore, Utah Miss Jessie A. Hassell........... Mammoth, Utah Mrs. Hazel B. Henrie....................... Panguitch, Utah Miss Jewel Howze..........Meigs, Georgia Mrs. Bessie Johnston................ Idaho Falls, Idaho Miss Vera Lettie Lingren.................... Blackfoot, Idaho Miss Margaret Nielsen.........:............. Oak City, Utah Mrs. Anna S. Petersen..............Omaha, Nebraska Mrs. Kathryn Simmons.................. Salt Lake City, Utah Items About Woman MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS VISIT SALT LAKE Miss Mary MeSkimmon of Brookline, Massachusetts, was a visitor in Salt Lake City, June 26th and 27th of this year. Miss McSkimmon is the president of the Federation of Teachers' Organizations of the State of Massachusetts. The Journal of Education has this to say of Miss McSkimmon: "Massachusetts teachers have a real Federation of teachers' organizations in the state including the State Teachers' Association. "The membership is 15,000 due-paying members. It has always been a harmonious association though there are divergent interests. "Its success is due in large measure to the president, Miss Mary McSkimmon of Brookline, one of the most efficient elementary school principles in the country, and one of the most accomplished women teachers in New England, ranking in professional appreciation with the women college presidents. "Miss McSkimmon is the only person in 'America who has been president of a State Association with thousands of members, who has been re-elected year after year." Other Massachusetts teachers visiting Utah on their way to the National Education Association meeting held in Oakland and San: Francisco, were Miss Annie Carlton Woodward of Summerville, Miss Ada E. Chevalier of Brookline, and Miss Mary E. O'Connor of Taunton. These women are all prominent teachers of the Bay State. MRS. HARDING VISITS UTAH We congratulate Utah in having as a guest on the 26th and 27th of June, the first lady of the land, Mrs. Warren G. Harding. This is the fifth occasion of a visit of the wife of the president of the United States to Utah. Mrs. U. S. Grant was the first. She was here October 3, 1875. Following her came Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes, Sept. 5, 1880. Mrs. William H. Harrison, May 9, 1891, Mrs. Woodrow Wilson Sept. 23, 1919. ANOTHER WOMAN ENTERS BRITISH PARLIAMENT Another woman has been elected to the British Parliament, Mrs. Hilton Phillipson. Like Lady Astor and Mrs. Margaret Wirthingham she succeeds her husband in the House of Commons. What is of interest in this particular case is that Mrs. Hilton Phillipson was elected on a conservative ticket while her husband was a liberal candidate., ITEMS ABOUT WOMEN 
 CATT RETURNS FROM EUROPE When Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt returned from the meeting of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance lately held at Rome, when Mussolini declared for suffrage of the women of Italy, she was given a dinner in the big ballroom of the Baltimore Hotel which was broad cast by Weaf and heard all over the state of New York. Mrs. Catt stated that the only good thing that had come out of the war, so far as she could observe was the resolve which had led the women to "stand up and fight for themselves." The attendance at the congress in Rome convinced Mrs. Catt that the women's movement is the only united one in the world. While Mrs. Catt declined to be re-elected president of the International Woman's Suffrage Alliance, she is still the president of the Pan-American Association for the Advancement of Women. MRS. KNIGHT AND MRS, LYMAN RETURN FROM EAST Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Counselor, and Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, have recently returned from a five-weeks' trip in the East. While away, they attended the meetings of the National Conference of Social Workers, celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the meeting of that organization. The attendance broke all former records. Practically 4,000 delegates from many countries being in attendance. Speakers of rare ability were there, and subjects of vital importance to social workers were presented daily.. Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Lyman also attended a board meeting of the National Council of Women which was engaged in preparing a program for the next meeting of the International Council of Women to be held in the United States.. They reported that subjects of vital interest to that organization were being considered in this meeting. They also visited a goodly number of social institutions throughout the East. They bring back a very glowing report of the work done at Mooseheart. They visited Relief Societies in the Eastern, Northern, Central, and Western States Missions. Lady Astor is encouraged at the support her prohibition bill is receiving. The bill aims to prohibit the sale of liquor to young persons. A good deal of publicity has been given to Miss Catherine Clay of Newark who studied for more than a year at Barnard College and took a degree, meanwhile caring for her home and three small children. 
 A movement to modify the curriculum of the English girls' school has been considered. The critics of the present course of study suggest the elimination of Latin and Greek from the intermediate course. They state that these studies were introduced to make the girls' schools correspond with the boys' schools. History and geography will be greatly reduced and emphasis placed on a thorough study of English and other modern languages. The governor of Idaho has appointed Irene Walch Grissom as Poet-Laureate. We know of the ability of Mrs. Miller of Colorado, and judging from the poem submitted and published from the pen of our Idaho Poet-Laureate, she, too, is a woman of poetic gift. Perhaps a Utah woman might be found who would honor such a position, if we went in search of her. THE SHEPPARD-TOWNER ACT The Sheppard-Towner Maternity Act, which the United States Supreme Court now declines to disturb, places at the disposal of the States fixed sums to be distributed annually for five years. It apportions them on a basis of population. It stipulates that a State shall get its share when it appropriates a like sum from its own treasury for the same use. The money of course will go to educate women in maternity and child hygiene. If all the States accepted the federal offer, the national government would spend in the five years $7,680,000. We are especially pleased that Utah has qualified. Mrs. Olive Streechley, former secretary to Lady Astor, M. P., in outlining the work of the British women in politics, said: "Tn our agricultural districts it is more than obvious that the granting of the vote has awakened the farmers' wives to a most gratifying extent. During Lady Astor's campaign we found that the women on the farm could tell every point in her career." MISS CUMMINGS GOLF VICTOR OVER MISS FARLANE IN FRANCE Chantilly, France, June 25 (Associated Press.)?Miss Edith Cummings, of Chicago, scored an easy victory over Miss Mae Farlane of England, 9 up and 7 to play, on the first day of the women's international. Golf championship here today. She will meet Mlle. Gaveau, for several years champion of France, in the second round tomorrow. "Home, Sweet Home" We regretted to omit from the May issue of the Magaztne matter relating to the centenary of the writing of John Howard Payne's justly famed song, "Home, Sweet Home," but the Mothers' Day material crowded it out. At the time "Home, Sweet Home" was written, the author was living in Paris, near the Palais Royal, the old French palace noted for being the residence of Cardinal Richelieu. In 1907 he lost his mother. The memory of her had much to do with the train of thought and feeling that resulted in the writing of the song. "Home, Sweet Home" was first sung about the middle of May, 1823, at the Covent Garden Theatre, London. It was introduced into a play called "Clari" and sung first by Miss Marie Tree, sister of Ellen Tree, afterwards Mrs. Charles Kean. The song "took fire," resulting in the sale of more than one hundred thousand copies within the year. In this sale, Payne did not share.. He was cheated by both the publisher and manager, his name not even appearing on the title page of the song. He did not hear it sung in his own country until 1832, nine years after the date of its composition; but he did hear it sung under most pleasing circumstances in the city of Washington during the administration of President Millard Fillmore. A distinguished audience had gathered to hear Jennie Lind. In the auditorium were President Fillmore, Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, * General Scott, and Howard Payne. We include the description of this event by Gertrude M. Ridgway, as published in The Outlook.: "The closing song on the program was Greetings to America, written expressly for Jennie Lind by Bayard Taylor. The applause was most enthusiastic, and Daniel Webster emphasized it by arising and making a profound bow to the singer, who turned toward Payne and sang, 'Home, Sweet Home.' The audience was electrified and gave full expression to its enthusiam at the end of the first line." At present Gali-Curci is including it in her program with marvelous effect. Two or three versions of the song are extant. We present three, the first being the original draft by Mr. Payne: *Mid pleasures and palaces thought we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home! A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there (Like the love of a mother Surpassing all other), Which, seek through the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere. (There's a spell in the shade Where our infancy played), Even stronger than time, and more deep than despair! 
 An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain; Oh, give me my lonely thatched cottage again! The birds and the lambkins that came at my call, Those who named me with pride, Those who played by my side), Give me them, with the innocence dearer than all! The joys of the palaces through which I roam Only swell my heart's anguish? There's no place like home. HOME, SWEET HOME 'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home: A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there. Which seek through the world is not met with elsewhere. Chorus Home, home, sweet, sweet home, Be it ever so humble there's no place like home. I gaze on the moon, as I trace the drear wild, And feel that my parent now thinks of her child; She looks on that moon from our own cottage door, Through woodbines whose fragrance shall cheer me no more. An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain Oh, give me my lowly thatched cottage again; The birds singing gaily that came at my call; Give these, with sweet peace of mind, dearer 'than all: If I return home overburdered with care, The heart's dearest solace I'm sure to meet there, The bliss I experience whenever I come Makes no other place seem like that of sweet home. Farewell, peaceful cottage! Farewell, happy home, Forever I'm doomed a poor exile to roam; This poor, aching heart must be laid in the tomb, Ere it cease to regret the endearments of home. ?Words by John Howard Payne. 'Mid pleasures and palaces, though we may roam Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home! A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there Which, seek through the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere! Home, home, sweet, sweet home! There's no place like home! There's no place like home! An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain! Oh, give me my lowly thatched cottage again! The birds singing gaily that came at my call! Give me them!?and the peace of mind dearer than all! Home, home, sweet, sweet home! There's no place like home! There's no place like home! ?John Howard Payne, Washington, Aug. 10, 1850. Milk as a Food By CY. Cannon, Department of Animal Husbandry Brigham Young University A good many people have an idea that milk is nothing more than a drink, and that outside of the little cream that is obtained from it, there is no food values in it. In each one hundred pounds of average milk there is found: 87 lbs. Of water 4 lbs. Of butter fat - 314 lbs. Of casein and albumin (protein) 5 Ibs. Of milk sugar 34 lbs. Of ash (mineral matter) It therefore consists of 87% of water and 13% of solids or dry matter.: When the water is taken from the milk, this water is bound to have no more value than water taken from any other pure source. We then find that the food value of milk is locked up in the 4% of butter fat, the 3 1/4% of protein, the 5% of sugar, and the 3% of mineral. Undoubtedly everyone considers turnips a good food. No one would ever consider buying them as a drink, and yet turnips contain more water and a great deal less food value than an equal weight of milk. Fresh tomatoes, carrots, beets, cabbages, onions, squash and other vegetables are found to have more water in them pound for pound than milk. A. Knowledge of the place milk occupies among foods must be gained before one really begins to appreciate it. Food should do two big things in the body; one is the furnishing of energy for the body processes and movements and the other is the supplying of materials for new growth and for the maintenance of the body balances so as to insure health. Value of food for the first purpose is usually measured by the energy in it, while for the second purpose it is usually measured by the protein content. The following tables give an idea of the relative value of milk from these standpoints. From the energy standpoint: 1 quart of milk is equal to 7 oz. Of steak 4.3 eggs 8.6 oz. Of fowl From the protein standpoint 
 1 qt. Of milk is equal to 12.5 oz. Of steak 9 eggs 14.5 oz. Of fowl Combining these two measures of food value into one table, Greaves says that one quart (two pounds) of milk is equal in value to 2 lbs. Of codfish 3 Ibs. Of fresh fish 2 lbs. Of chicken 4 lbs. Of beets 5 lbs. Of turnips 2 lbs. Of potatoes 6 lbs. Of spinach 7 lbs. Of lettuce 4 Ibs. Of cabbage = 8 eggs There is another factor of vital consideration in selecting a food other than the factors of energy and protein, and that is the food balance or nutritive ratio. Proper nutrition can only be obtained when a sufficient amount of the flesh-forming, as well as the heat-producing foods, are present, whether it be for growth, the restoration of material consumed by the labor of brain or body, or for the supply of heat to make up for the loss of heat through external cold. Milk supplies all of the elements necessary for these things. By examining again the composition of milk you will note that protein supply is furnished by the casein and albumin, the fat by the butter fat, the carbohydrates by the milk sugar, and each in such amounts that the balance between the flesh-forming foods and energy-producing foods is almost perfect. The mineral balance furnished by the milk is more nearly perfect than that furnished by any other food. Qlualitatively, the ash of milk contains the same ingredients found in all animal matter. Quantitatively, it follows very closely the composition of the young at the time it is taking the milk. By comparing the cost of milk as a substitute food for meat and for eggs we find that Is as cheap as sirloin Milk at steak at Or eggs at 7 cents-a quart 16.3 cents a pound 17.6 cents a dozen 8 cents a quart 18.6 cents a pound 21.1 cents a dozen 9 cents a quart 21.0 cents a pound 22.6 cents a dozen 10 cents a uart 23.3 cents a pound 25.1 cents a dozen 11 cents a quart 27.9 cents a pound 30.2 cents a dozen 15 cents a quart 34.9 cents a pound 37.7 cents a dozen MILK AS A FOOD 405 One must remember that the above values are given for average milk, but it ought to be understood that milk varies considerably from the average in the quantity of solids found in it. The State law places a minimum on the percentage of fat and the total solids that should be in milk when sold. That minimum for Utah is 3.2% of butter fat and 12% of total solids. Milk may vary upwards until there may be as much as 6% or 7% of fat and over 15% of solids. As a food the latter kind is very much more valuable. Dr. A. F. Woods, President of Maryland College, says, "Milk, more than any other food, combines most completely, and in the most favorable form, at the lowest cost, all the elements needed to promote growth and sustain the hupan body. Milk has absolutely no substitute for growing children. It deserves to rank, therefore, as our most important and necessary food." Note: The above article touches only one phase of the milk question. The author hopes to discuss other phases at a later date.. My Heart is in the Desert Nina Burnham McKean
All the desert seethes and shimmers 'Neath the noon day's burning sun. Cruel mirage floats and glimmers; Brilliant, green-hued lizards run.
Night fall finds the desert sleeping; Full moon, low hung, molten gold. Anguish, deep; too deep for weeping, Weighs my heart with woe untold.
Barren desert, sun-scorched, burning? Flames of love my soul consume: Purple shadows, tender turning; Dead, my love 'neath cactus bloom.
