[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: THE MEETING IN SALT LAKE CITY. | Author: Unknown]

THE MEETING IN SALT LAKE CITY.
	Mrs Margaret Blaine Salisbury has been
appointed by the president, Mrs. Richard-
son for Utah, to take charge of the work of
this State.
	The meeting held at her residence on
Saturday afternoon Nov. 27, was for the
purpose of organizing.a committee for this
enterprise. Letters were sent out before-
hand not only to women in this city but in
Ogden, Logan, Provo and Park City. A
number of ladies responded to the call, and
at the time appointed Mrs. Salisbury stated
the object of the meeting, and the ladies
assembled then and there elected Mrs. Salis-
bury permanently to fill the office to which
she had been appointed by the central or-
ganization. She was authorized by vote to
appoint a secretary and such other officers
as were needed to assist in the work. Fol-
lowing this suggestion the chairman ap-
pointed Mrs, C. E. Allen, vice-chairman
and representative of the First Congressional
district of Utah; Miss Hester Harkness, secre-
tary; Mrs. F. J. Fabian, treasurer, and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, press representative.
	Mrs. Salisbury read an address which
stated all the important facts concerning
the movement, and read from the will of
George Washington that part relating to the
founding of such an institution, and also
how the funds left by him for that purpose
had been lost; the chairman also read the
Senate bill upon the subject, therefore the
ladies present were informed of the object
in view and the needs of such a magnificent
building as would be required for the pur-
pose named.
	Mrs Allen spoke upon the necessity of
the people of this State proving their inter-
est in the movement, bringing out clearly
the idea of American patriotism.
	Mrs. Fabian spoke briefly upon the
great need of a university where such
degrees could be given as were obtained in
foreign institutions and avoid the neces-
sity of so many thousands of young people
going abroad to study. Mrs. Kinney made
some practical suggestions as to how the
money should be raised.
	A committee on resolutions was appointed
and later an important resolution submitted
and passed unanimously to aid the chair-
man in matters to be considered in the
meeting to which she is called as delegate
from Utah. The meeting is to be held in
Washington on December 14th, and Mrs.
Salisbury expects to leave in a few days for
the capital.
	The money which the women are prepar-
ing to raise at the present time or in the
near future is to build an administration
building as a nucleus of the university, and
is to be entirely woman’s work or a memor-
ial from the women of this country to the
immortal Washington.
	The cost of the building is estimated at
$250,000, and the proportion for Utah is ex-
pected to be $1,000. It is anticipated that
the corner stone will be laid Feb. 22, 1899.
A part of woman’s work will be to arouse
an interest in the school children of the
country to aid in the enterprise, and the
committee of women propose to make the
first offering for this building on Feb. 22,
1898.
	The committee of ladies already appoint-
ed at the meeting held are, besides the
officers whose names are: already given,
Mrs. Frank J. Cannon and Mrs. Whalon of
Ogden, Mrs. Hoyt of Park City, Mrs.
Coray of Provo, Mrs. Luther Foster and

[Column 3]
Mrs. George W. Thatcher of Logan, and
from this city Mrs. Hurd, Mrs. M. B. Jen-
nings, Mrs. Hoyt Sherman, Mrs. Blanche
Taylor, Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, Mrs.
Downey, Mrs. Wygant, Mrs. C. W. Ben-
nett, Mrs. C. S. Kinney, Mrs. M. C. Fox,
Mrs. Woodward, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs.
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The meeting adjourned to meet at the
call of the chairman, after the plan of the
work had been formulated in Washington.


