[Vol2 | April 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Theology and Testimony Baptism]
Guide  Lessons. 
Lesson  I. 
Work  and  Business. 
First  Week. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
Second  Week. 
Lesson  II — Repentance. 
(a)  The  First  Fruit  of  Faith. 
(b)  A  Gift  from  God. 
(c)  The  Spirit  of  God  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 
(d)  Real  Repentance. 
(e)  Damnation  no  Part  of  the  Gospel. 
(f)  Sin,  a  Wilful  Transgression  of  Law. 
(g)  Condemnation  Measured  by  Culpability, 
(h)  Some  Souls  Incapable  of  Repentance, 
1.  What  is  the  result  of  a  cognizance  of  sin? 
2.  How  can  we  obtain  faith? 
3.  Do  you  see  any  difference  between  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  ? 
4.  What  is  real  repentance? 
5.  What  is  the  "Mormon"  idea  of  damnation? 
6.  What  can  you  say  of  sin  ? 
7.  When  we  transgress  a  law,  what  is  the  result? 
8.  How  far  are  we  to  blame  for  our  sins? 
9.  When  is  a  man  unable  to  repent? 
REPENTANCE. 
The  First  Fruit  of  Faith. — The  first  fruit  of  faith  is  re- 
pentance. Repentance  follows  as  naturally  as  kindness  follows 
love,  as  obedience  springs  from  reverence,  as  a  desire  to  be  con- 
genial with,  succeeds  admiration  for,  one  whose  example  is 
deemed  worthy  of  emulation.  God  commands  all  men  every- 
where to  repent.  A  desire  to  please  Him  and  become  acceptable 
in  His  sight,  leads  the  soul  of  faith  to  repentance. 
A  Gift  from  God. — No  repentance  is  possible,  however,  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  "giveth  light  to  every  man  that

GUIDE  LESSONS.  161 
cometh  into  the  world"  (Doc.  and  Cov.  84:45-47).  This  is  what 
makes  repentance,  no  less  than  faith,  a  gift  from  God.  When  His 
Spirit  ceases  to  strive  with  men,  they  no  longer  desire  to  repent, 
and  are  deHvered  over  to  the  buffetings  of  Satan.  They  dehver 
themselves  over  to  those  buffetings.  They  make  their  choice  be- 
tween the  spirit  of  good  and  the  spirit  of  evil,  both  of  which  are 
in  the  world,  influencing  the  spirit  of  man,  and  they  receive  their 
wages  from  the  master  whom  they  list  to  obey. 
The  Spirit  of  God  and  the'  Holy  Ghost. — A  distinction 
should  be  drawn  between  the  Spirit  "that  enlighteneth  every  man," 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  whose  gifts  are  given  to  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  The  former  is  an  influence,  proceeding  from 
the  Divine  Presence ;  the  latter  a  personage,  one  of  the  Godhead, 
concerning  whom  the  Prophet  Joseph  says :  "The  Father  has  a 
body  of  flesh  and  bones,  as  tangible  as  man's ;  the  Son  also ;  but 
the  Holy  Ghost  is  a  personage  of  Spirit.  Were  is  not  so  the  Holy 
Ghost  could  not  dwell  in  us"  (Doc.  and  Cov.  130:22). 
The  Prophet  says  further  upon  this  subject:  "There  is  a 
difference  between  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Cornelius  received  the  Holy  Ghost  before  he  was  baptized,  which 
was  the  convincing  power  of  God  unto  him  of  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel,  but  he  could  not  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  until 
after  he  was  baptized.  Had  he  not  taken  this  sign  or  ordinance 
upon  him,  the  Holy  Ghost  which  convinced  him  of  the  truth  of 
God  would  have  left  him." — ("Joseph  Smith's  Teachings,"  p.  69.) 
Real  Repentance. — Repentance  is  not  that  superficial  sor- 
row felt  by  a  criminal  when  caught  in  the  act  of  wrong-doing — a 
sorrow  not  for  sin,  but  for  sin's  detection,  for  being  taken  in  trans- 
gression. Chagrin  is  not  repentance.  Mortification  and  shame, 
alone,  bring  no  change  of  heart  toward  right  living  or  right  feel- 
ing. Repentance  involves  remorse;  but  even  remorse  is  not  all 
there  is  to  repentance.  In  its  highest  meaning  and  fullest  meas- 
ure, repentance  is  equivalent  to  reformation — a  resolve  to  "sin  no 
more,"  backed  up  by  conduct  consistent  with  such  a  determina- 
tion. "Repentance  is  a  thing  that  cannot  be  trifled  with  every 
day.  Daily  transgression  and  daily  repentance  is  not  that  which 
is  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God"  ("Joseph  Smith's  Teachings," 
f.  136).  "Bv  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his  sins. 
Behold,  he  will  confess  them  and  forsake  them"  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
58:43).  This  is  a  real,  genuine  repentance.  All  who  truly  re- 
pent can  be  forgiven.  These,  and  these  alone,  are  ready  for  the 
cleansing  process — baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins.  Without 
repentance,  there  is  no  forgiveness,  and  consequently  no  remission 
of  sins. 
Damnation  No  Part  of  the  Go.spel. — Damnation  is  no  part 
of  the  Gospel.  Damnation  or  condemnation  is  simply  the  sad 
alternative,  the  inevitable  consequence  of  rejecting  the  means  of

162  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
escape.  When  men  hear  the  Gospel  and  refuse  to  obey  it,  they 
come  under  condemnation.  This  cannot  be  helped.  God  would 
save  them,  but  they  will  not  be  saved.  They  are  free  agents,  and 
they  damn  themselves.  Says  Joseph  the  Prophet:  "When  God 
offers  knowledge  or  a  gift  to  a  man,  and  he  refuses  to  receive  it, 
he  will  be  damned."  Not  because  God  wishes  to  damn  him,  but 
because  damnation  is  inevitable  when  one  rejects  the  offer  of 
salvation. 
Sin,  a  Wilful  Transgression  of  Law. — A  man  sins  when 
he  goes  contrary  to  light  and  knowledge — that  is,  contrary  to  the 
light  and  knowledge  that  has  come  to  him.  One  may  blunder  in 
ignorance,  and  suffer  painful  consequences ;  but  one  does  not  sin 
unless  one  knows  better  than  to  do  the  thing  in  which  the  sin 
consists. 
Condemnation  Measured  by  Culpability. — They  who  re- 
fuse to  repent  will  be  damned ;  they  damn  themselves  by  that  re- 
fusal. But  damnation  is  not  necessarily  permanent,  and  like  sal- 
vation or  exaltation,  it  exists  in  degrees.  The  degree  of  con- 
demnation is  according  to  the  measure  of  culpability  in  those  con- 
demned.    Even  the  damned,  who  repent,  can  be  saved. 
Some  Souls  Incapable  of  Repentance. — Some  sinners  can- 
not repent.  Their  sins  are  of  such  a  heinous  character  as  to  pre- 
clude it.  The  spirit  of  repentance  cannot  lay  hold  upon  them. 
Their  conduct  has  so  grieved  it,  that  it  is  completely  withdrawn. 
Consequently  they  cannot  repent,  and  that  is  what  makes  their  case 
hopeless.  If  they  could  repent,  they  could  be  forgiven;  but  not 
being  able  to  repent,  the  pardoning  power  cannot  reach  them. 
There  would  be  no  unpardonable  sin  if  all  sinners  were  capable  of 
repentance.  Those  who  cannot  repent,  who  have  committed  the 
sin  unpardonable,  are  called  sons  of  perdition. —  (From  "Gospel 
Themes.") 
Genealogy. 
First  Week. 
Lesson  III — Individual  and  Family  Histories. 
1.  Begin  your  work  of  recording  with  known  facts. 
2.  Write  all  your  own  data. 
Birth. 
Baptism. 
Marriage. 
Birth  of  each  child. 
Death  of  any  child. 
Endowment  date. 
Official  positions  in  Relief  Society  or  other  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations.

GUIDE  LESSONS. 
3.     Write  same  data  about  husband. 
163 
4.  Write  same  data  about  children. 
5.  Write  same  data  about  parents. 
Note. — The    Genealogical    Society 
record  book,  which  is  on  sale  for  $1.25. 
living  family  record. 
SAMPLE  PAGE. 
has    prepared  a  living 
It  is  invaluable  for  the 
NAME  IN  FULL:     
-RRSrDF.NfnC- 
T ndex  Page 
IMPORTANT  EVENTS     ETC 
DATE 
Important  Events,Et« 
DATE 
Day 
Mo. 
Yr.  : 
1 
Day 
Mo. Yr. 
Born  at      
Blessed  by  
 
Baptized  by   
Confirmed  by        
Schooling  commenced  at   
Graduated          
Ordained   a   by   
Ordained  a   by.   _. 
Ordained  a   by   
Married  to        
Married  by   at      - 
Endowed  at 
 
Patriarchal  Blessing  by   
Mission  to    
Returned  from  Mission.   
Migrated  from   to   ^   
Avocation    ..  
 
Height...  Weight  ..  Chest  Size... 
Color  of  Eyes  ..Color  of  Hair   
General  Condition  of  Health  ..  _ 
Specially  Interested  in..      .. 
1             - 
Home  Ethics  and  Art. 
ETHICS. 
Lesson  IV — Integrity. 
(a)  The  principle  of  whole-hearted  uprightness  in  an  indi- 
vidual is  sometimes  called  integrity. 
(b)  Dependableness — which  may  be  named  as  one  phase  of 
integrity  is  of  supreme  importance  in : 
1.  Business  life. 
2.  Social  activities. 
3.  Domestic  relations. 
4.  Religious  affairs. 
Carelessness  in  any  and  all  these  relations  amounts  at  times 
to  dishonesty.