[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 7 | Special Feature | Woman's Glorious Purpose Harold | B. Lee]
Woman's Glorious Purpose him and the children, can go through the temple. ENLIST THE AID OF THE PRIESTHOOD Next, I would say, enlist the aid of the Priesthood in meeting what to you may be insurmountable problems. There is a tendency to bypass the bishop— they say he is too close to us or he is too young and inexperienced, they fear he will not keep their confidence—which may be just an escape. I had a call from Meridian, Idaho, I guess I shouldn't have said that, but it is out, early in the morning, and the telephone operator said it was a collect call. I am always suspicious of a collect call and, in fact, I don't always have the money to pay it if that were done, but the operator said "She says she belongs to your Church and she is in need of help." And all I said was "Well tell her to look across the street and her bishop may be there, the stake president may be there, that is a fully organized stake, and there is nothing that can be done from this distance that couldn't be done by the officers and leaders right there at her elbow." The bishop has at his command all the forces of the Priesthood, as well as the auxiliaries, to set in motion and, if we were to attempt to legislate, we would have to get in touch with the bishop through the stake president. So, we are just wasting time to come to the General Authorities and leap-frog over the bishop and the stake president. I had a letter from a sweet girl whose marriage I performed 

11 January 1968

 some years before, and it started out about the problems, and I thought, here is a temple marriage that has failed. Immediately we began to have problems. We tried then and have tried since to figure out just why. There was no particular thing that consistently precipitated our difficulties. We were active in the Church and attended our meetings; we prayed; we paid our tithing; we returned to the temple regularly. We loved each other so and had such expectations for our marriage. Then we were expecting a baby and, in spite of our very great happiness in anticipating this child, things seemed to go so bad as to seem insolvable. Almost a year after we began, we knew we couldn't continue together any longer under such conditions, and I called the bishop, who was also our friend, and we went over. The three of us talked—a little. You know, I don't recall anything particular that was spoken except the questionable encouragement he offered by saying that he and his wife had had a difficult time after awhile when they were married. The inference was, we solved our problems, why can't you? But when we left the bishop's office we knew we _ had reached the turning point somehow. We had touched the bottom and we were on our way up. I can't explain why or what happened, but we did start up and we've been on our way up ever since. Because they followed the route of the bishop. FAMILY HOME EVENINGS I asked a mother in a family if they were having Family Home Evening, and she wrote back and said: I mentioned a serious illness. I hope this doesn't seem vain, but for the first time I realized how important I was to my children. As I lay helpless to care for any of their needs, and knowing that— except for my Heavenly Father's intervention—my influence upon them in this life was ended, how desirable and precious seemed the hours in the weeks and months and years ahead. I deter- 12 mined many things then concerning how to use that time, were it granted to me. One was to spend time nightly reading and talking to the children. I fall short, but we usually spend an hour five evenings a week together. Besides the other things they have been interested in, I have read most of The Book of Mormon to them from the children's volumes. It was my idea at first, but not for long. I have no doubt that it is meaningful to them when I hear my eight-year-old offer thanks in his prayers for the prophets who kept the records, or when my five-year-old son is thankful that Nephi got away safely into the wilderness with the faithful when Laman and Lemuel sought to kill him. Our experience has been that any time we have an opportunity to help our children expand in their love and understanding of the gospel and the Father who created them, our love for one another also increases, and our family solidarity is influenced in the most significant way. For this reason, the Family Home Evening is of paramount importance to us. Now, you mothers, over the Church, we are preparing some of the finest lessons that have ever been prepared for families to be taught by fathers and mothers in every home. We have printed 650,000 manuals to be placed in every home in the Church. You are missing a great opportunity in every home where that Family Home Evening Manual is not being studied. MOTHERS STAY AT CROSS ROADS OF THE HOME Finally, the last that I shall mention, keep the mother of your home at the "cross roads" of the home. There is a great danger today of homes breaking down because of allurements to entice mothers to neglect their being at home as the family are coming or going from the home. Now I recognize the necessity of some mothers being required to earn sustenance for their family. I am recognizing that, but even here Relief Society presidents and bishops should take care lest they fail to lend all aid possible to permit the mother of small children to be with them, if possible, in planning the nature of work or the schedule of time. All this hes within the province of the Relief Society working with the home. HOME-—A ROOF OVER A GOOD WOMAN Well, just a few simple suggestions of the mother's role in the home. If we were to define the home as I know it to be so true, I would say, a home is a roof over a good woman. God grant to the mothers of this Church the powerful influence to be Woman's Glorious Purpose wielded fully to say as the old patriots, oh, if you remember, "I am only one, but I am one. I can not do everything, but I can do something, and what I can do, by the grace of God I will do." And someone put it in these words, "Give what you have to give, you mothers. It may be better than even you dare to think that it is at the time." That the Lord may help you so to do and rise to your great opportunity as the mothers of men; the creators of the atmosphere in the home that will go far to their strengthening when sons and daughters are all too soon taken away from your influence. May you build on that strong foundation and teach the mothers under your influence to do likewise, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Sa THE HARVEST Linnie Fisher Robinson The years blow, burn, at the day's long turning To excellence or ill, and void of sound; The slow pulse measures in silent churning, And the dark hair whitens a circle round. But, oh, the wrecked hopes, the songs long stilled, The flame's quintessence beyond human eyes. The soul expands as it fashions and gleans And the heart rejects all that dust implies. In silent chambers, visitless, unseen, Small cherished dreams are nourished more Than the dawn of day or the spring's new green; More than the strong loves beyond the door. The heart holds all, even as it must, And the harvest of age is the heart's long trust.