Vol. IX JUNE No. 6 THE MEASURE OF SUCCESS How puny are our human standards with which we measure our own or other's successes or failures in life. In youth we are fired with ambition, we feel that the stars only compass the height of our desires. With that limitation given by weak mortality, we choose some certain high place, in civil or religious life as the particular goal which we must reach in order to achieve the success which we fancy we shall deserve by reason of our gifts, our desires and our strivings. Individuals and their attainments are set up by us as models or standards by which we may measure our own ambitions. Life treats us all roughly. It is part of the Design; and we knew all about it before we came here. But we had forgotten; and when disappointment, failure in this or that direction evertakes us we sometimes get bitter, resentful and too often discouraged. The feeling of rest in success is never present with anybody who is genuine or who is worth while. Some stupid and vain people are puffed up by riches or power. But each true so-called successful man or woman sits struggling on his or her particular mountain peak, looking upward to some other higher peak with EDITORIAL - 345 hope mixed with despair, and looks downward on the thorny road traveled with agonized memory of the past. We women?how we long to be good or great?and we seldom realize for we carry such heavy burdens?that some one is looking at us with envy or admiration, wishing to attain to our own height sometime, some way. Ask yourself, could anyone call you or me successful?we who make so many daily failures?who come so far short of our youthful ambitions? Could anyone look upon you or me as ideal characters, holding positions they aspire to? Yes, yes, indeed. Faulty as we are, our daughters, the young girls near us, even some of our friends may think us fine or even great, and wish to grow to be like you and like me. Then are we successful? Not if you ask me?I am not; and yet?and yet? Look at the great women of our past?did they consider themselves sticcessful? Consider our honored "Mother" Lucy Mack Smith! She who saw her kingly sons smitten down in the flower of achievement, whose own life went out in oblivion and poverty. Recall Eliza R. Snow?greatest and most wonderful of all our women leaders and organizers. Childless, in delicate health all her life, dying alone, surrounded by those not of her kindred, and herself buoyed up only by her indomitable will and faith in God. Remember those who have followed her?how little they received compared to their deserts or their desires. Look about you todav?none of our leaders. No, not one, would say. "yes," if asked if they had been really successful. Then what consolation shall we find in this inquiry? What is there in this lesson of life? The power to measure success! If life has permitted you measurable health, measurable opportunity to work, to strive, to overcome, and you have measurably overcome, then you may consider yourself a measurable success. It is not what you achieve in worldly paths, it is what you overcome in spiritual matters that counts for success.. To overcome? little horrid temptations?to overcome the dislikes of people, the repeating of evil tales, the treating of other harshly, and to control fear in all ite manifestations: If you and I have done any or all of these things, and are doing them every day, then, indeed, you and I are successes, genuine successes. The failure of the human will?the failure to struggle, to overcome, to climb?that is the only failure.; Life's valuations differ with differing people. Tell me what you conceive success to be and I shall at once know you for what you are, not for what people think you are. 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE