[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 543 | The Home | Work Meeting for September — Teaching the | Gospel In]
WORK MEETING Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 9—Vocational Goals and Marriage (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For September 1965 To point out that a wise mother may guide youth toward satisfying vocations and a happy marriage. INTRODUCTION Few individuals perhaps achieve their full potential while in this life, but the cultivation of one's potential, as a human being, may be spoken of as an over-all life objective. This means that the significent goal for any child is the develipment of his inherent capacity, so that he may know satisfaction and fulfillment in this life and be prepared for a greater joy in the eternity to come. This cultivation-effort will embrace areas of education, of vocation, of voluntary service to others, of spiritual understanding, and of marriage. The mother may exert a substantial influence in each of these areas. This lesson will discuss two important factors in achieving one's potential—that of selecting a vocation OF EDUCATION Education is basic to a full appreciation of life and may be an important factor in the selection of a satisfying vocation (employment). We well know, however, that education is not attained through academic training alone. We are aware of the importance of experience and of the influence of personal association outside the home and with family members within the home. We also know that if we are to appreciate the various aspects of life we need some knowledge of "history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man (D&C 93:53). This knowledge will give us an appreciation for the fine arts, for world cultures, as well as some technical and scientific knowledge which are of such imporand that of selecting a marriage tance in today's. Challenging companion. World. 543 nn JULY 1965 How may a mother help her children appreciate the privilege of going to school and the blessings of an academic education? VOCATIONAL GOALS Vocational counselors impress upon us the need to consider individual talents and interests realistically, as we choose vocational goals. If one is to spend perhaps years at a specific type of employment, that employment should be one which will give some personal satisfaction and fulfillment. It should be one for which a person is adapted. (See lesson 6, under headings "Each Individual is Precious" and ''Discovering the Inherent Ability.'') How may a mother cooperate with teachers in discovering the special interests and aptitudes of her children? (Suggestion: Consult with teachers about the matter. Be aware of classroom projects which involve individual initiative and encourage children in line with these projects. ) Frequently, hobbies enjoyed in childhood reveal inherent abilities which later, may develop into lifetime vocations. Fathers and mothers may give special guidance to sons and daughters by helping them see the training which various employments involve, and, to some extent, what the rewards may be. What are some of the specific goals of employment which a mother may help her children to see and desire? (Suggestion: the satisfaction of being useful to society; the joy of accomplishment; the satisfaction of financial remuneration.) 544 WORDS OF CAUTION Sometimes a mother may speak disparagingly of certain occupations which are not in line with the "family tradition.""' How may this influence children? Sometimes mothers' express such high regard for the professions that children may feel that they are "letting the family down" unless they become doctors, lawyers, professors, business executives, etc. They may feel that unless they become outstanding in a professional way they will not fulfill their mother's expectations. What may this do to a son whose potential lies in the area of manual skills? How may a mother help her children to see that we need various professions and varied skills; that if all sons were surgeons or lawyers, there would be no one to build houses, to install the plumbing, to manufacture cars for transportation. How may a mother help her daughters to feel that the roles of wife and of mother are of prime importance? That the goals to be achieved are challenging and also rewarding? Will a mother's positive statements made occasionally be sufficient, or will an everyday attitude be more effective? CHOOSING A MARRIAGE "Choosing a marriage' may imply two areas of choice. First, that there is a choice of the marriage partner and, second, that there is choice as to the type of married life that will result. In many cultures of the past, and even in some of the present day, the individuals most concerned play little or no part in the matter of choosing the marriage partner. This discussion applies to those situations only, in which the candidates for marriage are personally involved in the matter of choosing the marriage partner (companion). "How do I choose a mate?" Should your son or daughter ask you this question, how would you reply? A counselor for youth, Dr. Lowell Bennion, gives this answer: "Choose in the light of the life you wish to achieve." With this answer in mind, we may say that the answers to both of the following questions are dependent upon the kind of life one wishes to achieve. "'What may I expect from marriage?" and '"'How do I choose a mate?'' Do you believe that most young people today have clearly defined marriage goals? If so, how do you think they would be listed, in order of importance? Why do you think about this as you do? THE PREPARED PARTNER We may hear this statement, "A person gets out of marriage just what he puts into it." Achieving happiness' through marriage, really is not this simple. A marriage involves more than one person. Although one marriage partner may be well prepared to contribute personal qualities which make for a "good" marriage, if the other partner is immature and ill prepared to contribute similar qualities, this marriage may have a poor chance of achieving happiness. A mother shares with the faLESSON DEPARTMENT ther the responsibility to help their children prepare for marriage; to have worthwhile, clearly defined goals in mind, and to choose the marriage partner as wisely as possible. Mothers should help their children see that "Just because two people think they are in love does not mean that they are insured a happy marriage forevermore. In addition to a strong feeling of love, they also need knowledge, understanding, and wisdom to have a successful marriage in the modern age" (Rex A. Skidmore). HOW AND WHEN How and when shall parents guide children toward wise marriage choices? We are reminded that influencing youth toward happy married life is a gradual, lifelong process; that advice on marriage should be given so wisely and gradually that children will desire, formulate, and move toward worthwhile marriage goals, naturally, while at the same time not being denied their free agency. It is suggested that guidance be given subtly; that a sense of humor may be an invaluable ally in "nutting over" ideas. A mother who is earnest, yet obviously in good humor, may have a better chance of impressing her child with constructive counsel, than if she is obviously agitated and apprehensive. Sometimes, the unexpected comment may be more effective than the usual, expected statement. Illustration. A father who was somewhat concerned about his son staying out too late, said: 545 Pon what Per- ' SOnali ar important to Marriage, you." ernity of the MarSon: « ell, [ fuess character rlage Covenant, €NCompasses far would be first I think that's about the more than mere "motional and most important 'don't suppose we'g Physica] attraction = Dappy * «didn't bo ave that; Integrity + t Dad is ] Iki Per "Pps the most Important ate ways tallking Premarriage Counsel tha Parents Mother: «p Put characte; first, Can give their Children Is to rear also. And I Suppose yoy mean honesthem In an xemplar home. Ty and fairness, ability to distinguish Here, Children See firsthand how a a rong and to choose the a happy Marriage Works, Here Son: « wouldn't want her to be they become Part of family tradiJust wrapped UP in herself. Like som tions which embrace sound, morBirls see 10 be. I hope [ won't be al values: they learn the Teason like that, ¢ the for tithe aying, and acquire the a meee abit of Paying it; they learn the i of d upon the degree Of emotij nal aturity you have 546 ar: Yes, Son, you May tak Ospe] Principles shoe but don't be in before eleven eternal family: Son: ( Who j definitely Surprised) and "Why not?" Preparation of gen Father "I think Ill study in your j]: room, and J wouldn't want to be dis the love of Parents turbed earlier than that. Members or each o The son was home very short] now the reason a alter eleven Was this a subt] temple Marriage Way of Suggesting that eleven O'clock w S an 4ppropriate time for this Son to be jn? Air and inner questioning, IMprove the line 09 comMunicatio —— able) x 1 SO essentia] IN parent and child lati OF PRIME IMPORTANCE r Marriage?" th questions mj ht Preface a profit able dialogue between mother Of prime Importance mM the an son. It m ght Proceed some Matter of Marriage Counseling of wy at in this youth jg the Idea that Parenta] Counsel shal] begin Mother: T shall 4nsWer your ques arly and contions, son. By asking some questions tinue Consistently It Should take of you. What wou] You expect to Place before the children become get nm marriage?" hich at th:: on 4pPiness, w Ich at the Pres involved "motionally: ent moment, s ©Ms merely Setting the In Counseling children On martight gir] » rlage, th basic + achings to be Mother: « Used are those of th love and the } a based On the et PROF ITABLE DIALOGUE Shoy W unselfish both ave observed, » Perhaps, have ass; achieved. Each one must be willing to share and to compromise." Son: 'Of course I'd like her to be good looking, neat, and all that." Mother: "Good." Son: "But she does need to be interesting—have an inquiring mind, so we could communicate, talk things over, get the same point of view on things." Mother: "At least on most issues. How about her religious beliefs?" Son: "I think I could settle for a difference of opinion here and there, but I think I wouldn't be completely happy, being reared in this home, unless we had the same basic religious faith." Mother: (ignoring the last statement) "Which of course for you means." Son: "A temple marriage. You knew I'd say that. But really, Mother, I'd want a temple marriage, and I'd want children, too." Mother: "So much for choosing the girl. Now, what general satisfactions would you expect to get from marriage?". Son: (Thinking a moment) "Happy home life, which would include the Church, a satisfying job, some status in the community—I guess that's it." Mother: "I'll give you an A on that question. Wife and children — the Church—a vocation—the community." Son: "The job is mighty important." Mother: "Of course it is, very important—vitally important. But employments may change—the family is forever." Should this mother feel reasonably secure in her son's ability to choose a marriage partner wisely? What might a mother do to help a teenage son who is contemplating marriage see that he is not ready to assume the financial responsibility of marriage (where she feels sure that he is not)? Would telling him that many teenage marriages do not last because the partners are not mature LESSON DEPARTMENT enough to handle the responsibilities of a family, be very effective at this stage of his romance? What might a mother reply to a son or daughter who says: "It's my life—my concern whom I marry." (Suggestion: Whom the children marry is the concern of their parents, for as future grandparents they are definitely concerned as to who shall parent their grandchildren. ) Reconstruct the above dialogue using a daughter instead of a son. What values will be imvortant to her? Such a conversation, in its entirety, might never take place in your home; however, portions of a similar one might. Would it provide an opportunity for you to appraise the influence of gospel teaching in your home? Would you find in it opportunity to reemphasize certain important values, or give additional counsel? What would this be? NEEDED TODAY Perhaps there was never a time when youth was more in need of wise counseling and of a firm foundation of right and essential values than at the present time. A permissive morality (or lack of morality) is exerting great pressures upon today's youth. They need the assistance of wise parents to help them meet these pressures. They need the fortification of stable homes, they need good parent-son and_ parentdaughter relationships so _ that each may speak freely and honestly about the problems of courtship and marriage, of chastity versus the so-called "new moral- 547 of Morality as Tevealed in the Old Testament, the FOR DISCUSSION Questions as they appear in the lesSon, plus the following: may a mother help youth _