[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 521 | Fiction | Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 3 | Shirley Thulin]
There were some X-rays she RING AROUND HER HEART wanted to check. When the elevator doors opened, Kathy and David stepped out. "Hi," David greeted her. Kathy didn't say anything. "Hi," Joan returned his greeting. Y "Going up?" he asked. "Ves." "Mind if I ride along?" Joan grinned. "Not at. All, David. You, too, Kathy?" "No. I'm due in the lab, see you." David waited until the doors slid shut and then, as he pushed the right button, he turned and smiled at Joan. "What's so amusing?" asked him. "Nothing amusing. It's just that well, Miss Morgan, you know how everyone's saying I mean that... Well, some are saying about Tom." Joan looked at the boy. He was only out of high school, but as tall as a man, and right now his eyes sparkled. "Yes, I know what they're saying about Tom about me." "Well, I don't agree with them." "You don't? How come?" "Because he does feel sorry for himself, and today right after you left I went to see him. He talked to me, Miss Morgan, and that's she 


 the first time he hasn't sent me away." "What did he talk about?" "He asked me what I was planning on doing in the future. I told him I was just working here so as to save enough money - to go to school. He asked me what my major was going to be and when I was planning to start." "He did? Oh, David, that's wonderful." "Then I told him if he'd learn to handle a wheel chair by September, I'd take him with me to register." "What did he say?" "He just turned to the wall and said he didn't want to go to any old university... That it wouldn't do him any good to learn anything." "David, you just keep talking to him. We'll have him up in no time." Joan finished the day with a light heart. She hadn't thought of talking to Tom about school. This is it, she told herself. This is really the way to reach him. She went to her room to change. There were some things she needed from the nearby shopping center. She was disappointed to find that Kathy wasn't in their room. Funny, she thought, how you always want to share good news. Joan paused for a moment on the top step of the building. The view of the city from the hospital was always inspiring to her. The little starlets of light had begun to twinkle from some of the houses, and they comforted her. There are people in those little houses, Joan told herself. People with families and with problems and with things happening. The 526 houses were nestled against a green tree backdrop and seemed to be like fortresses, protecting their own families, and yet the windows and doors seemed to smile a welcome to strangers. Joan already felt a part of this town, and there, high on the hill, looking down at the city, she felt that she wanted more than anything else to live in one of those little homes and be part of a family. The walk to the store was pleasant. The evening was cool and the employees in the shop were friendly. Like a different world, she thought. No more than a couple of blocks away, but they have never heard of Doctor Desmond or Doctor Niles or Tom. They didn't accuse her of anything with their eyes or have secret meanings in their words.... They were just nice people waiting on a customer. As Joan came near the nurse's dorm, she saw Kathy coming along the walk. "Kathy." Kathy almost didn't stop, but then she did, and Joan could tell she was reluctant and wondered why. "Is something wrong?" "Oh, not anything really. I mean, nothing new, anyway." "I wanted to talk about the plans for the week end..'.. How long a drive is it?" "Only a couple of hours. The bus leaves at five P. M. So we'll leave right after our shift tomorrow." "Kathy, would you rather I didn't go with you? I mean, has something happened to change your mind?" Kathy smiled then, a very slow smile. "No, I haven't changed my mind only, oh, Joan, if you Left to right, J, lety Presidency. > Secon. Hewitt: First €ports: «! Re, Visiting te t Y guests Present."