To President Heber J. Grant
Among the deeply appreciated letters received by President Grant on his eightieth birthday was the following
AN APPRECIATION
"THIS morn at dawn, while scarcely yet awake, remembrance came that this was the Natal Day of our great Leader—that he had reached the milestone marked "Four Score." There welled within. My soul a prayer of gratitude and praise for what his life has meant of uplift and of service to mankind. Perhaps few days have passed in all those eighty years, when someone was not cheered or gladdened by some thoughtful, kindly act of his. It seemed as though I saw again his mother's radiant face, when, as she finished reading his most recent note to her, she smiled and said: "Unless he comes himself he almost always writes a note to me each day which shows his loving thoughtfulness." Next came a prayer that God would spare him long, and give him health and peace, with increased wisdom as the years shall come and go. At once I seemed to feel that mine was only one of a half million who, this day, were praying thus. A multitude with hearts in unison, asking the same great boon. How could he be other than a man of God—strong in the strength that God alone can give—wise, tender, helpful, sympathetic, when all these prayers were offered that he might be such a man? Strange would it be, indeed, should faith like this remain unheeded! And so my gratitude found new expression in the thought that even faith and confidence and prayer of mine, might have availed in some small measure to bring lengthened life and health and blessing to our Leader who is much beloved. Richly blessed my life has been through mingling with his kindred and himself. His mother while my neighbor taught me much of cheerfulness, of patience and implicit faith and trust in Providence. Ever since my girlhood, have I shared the blessing of his wife's companionship; and her fine intellect and spirit as well as rich experiences and opportunities that have come to me through her, have left sweet memories that are priceless. From the ten lovely daughters who have come to bless our President's home, have I gained much. Rachel—far-seeing, frank, practical, efficient, does honor to her noble heritage. Lutie — sympathetic, generous tactful, whose heart is educated more highly even than is her splendid mind. A true neighbor in its finest sense she proved to be, when for almost half a score of years it was my blessed privilege to call her mine. Flo — typifies the home-loving, home-making mother, and yet with all gives generously to others from the riches of her well stored mind. And who can measure or enumerate the joy and comfort given by Edith, through the sharing of her glorious gift. She knows no cast of rich or poor, of high or lowly born, but ever goes to place of sorrow or of mirth to love, to serve, to bless. With Anna we have shared a gift of more material kind—delicious viands prepared by her own capable hands, and many homes are richer in happiness because the things she knew so well she taught to makers of these homes.
TO PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
To Mary, the ever calm and placid daughter, I am much indebted. She gives me treasures from the deep springs of her intellect and spirit that refresh my soul and furnish food for thought through future days. "Aunt" Emily's daughters I have not known so well, yet have loved and admired them for their poise and charming personality. More than thankful have I been for luck or chance or circumstance that the younger two came to live beneath the same roof in lovely Deseret, for several weeks. They came thither while I chaperoned a group of charming girls on a vacation trip. 'Twas Frances' trousseau they had come to make, but Frances had her thoughts amid the clouds—on music or on Wallace, so gifted Emily planned and wrought as though by magic. Of course she let all of us
help just a little on the lovely things that are so thrilling to girls' hearts, and so the music and the stitching and the close association of those few short weeks, brought friendship that became more valued with the years that came and went, while Emily still was here. Among the fourth generation there are some whom I have known and loved from their childhood until now, when they bring their babies to make friends with me. Besides all this, the daughters chose their husbands from among the families of my friends. In several instances have I known five generations on both sides—in others three or two. And so for President Grant and all who share his honored name we pray like Tiny Tim "God Bless You Every One." —May Booth Talmage.