Our Inspired Leaders By Grace C. Jacobsen
IT was a year or two previous to the great financial crash of 1929, as I remember it, that Bishop John Wells came to Sanpete as a visitor to the quarterly conference representing the General Authorities, bearing an important message to all Latter-day Saints. At that time we were enjoying the heyday of prosperity and making plans for a greater future in expansion and investments in material wealth. The parable of the Savior was being repeated. Old barns were being torn down and new ones built wherein to store the good things of the harvest, the "Golden Calf" was ready for the worshipers, and then on that calm Sunday afternoon this man of God arose, and addressed the people on their temporal salvation. Much of that sermon fell on unheeding ears, and the soundness of that advice was not generally recognized. The seeds of inspiration fell on shallow ground and the sun of prosperity soon burnt them up. There were some, however, who listened and profited thereby. To recall all the speaker said is impossible, but the following was the kernel of truth that has lived on and borne fruit an hundredfold: "The Latter-day Saints are to build up the waste places of Zion by tithes and offerings unto the Lord. They should be industrious, and wise in the use of their time and means. Live in peace and good will toward each other and all men. Keep out of unnecessary debt, and above all let all wildcat schemes alone." As we look back over the recent past and see the homes and farms lost, the wreckage and sorrow wrought by the evil of living above the ability to pay, it is sad, indeed, especially when fair warning had been given.
TODAY wildcat schemes have become a national industry. Rackets spring up like mushrooms, with never-ending numbers and varieties. This sly false viper, reaches its polluted fingers into every nook and crevice of our national structure. This public enemy invades the blooming garden of babyhood, and destroys its lively buds without shame. It sears the field of promising youth without dread, and creeps with stealthy step into the domain of men and women, slinks into the home, robs the aged, undermines business, exacts its pound of flesh from misfortune, grief and even death itself. No one is safe, no one escapes unless he be wise and lets all wildcat schemes alone. How we need to follow the advice of our Inspired Leaders!
ONE of the most illuminating books written on this subject is "The Run For Your Money," written by joint authors Ellison and Brick, which is now in the second printing. This book is the result of a thorough investigation of the racketeering game and shows how these human leeches make vast fortunes off the trusting, honest people who can be fooled into the net of deception so carefully spread for their feet. "Pray always that ye enter not into temptation." 'Know the truth and the truth shall make you free," are the safest guide posts in life, and the source of never-failing strength and security.