							VIOLET OWENS


[Column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. [-]. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
------	
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake,held
at Bluff, September 21st, 1885, Prest. Jane M
Walton presiding. Present on the stand, with
the officers of the Relief Society, was Sister-
Slade of Burnham Ward, Stake Counselor
Wm. Halls, Bishop Nielson and Counselors
and Bishop Burnham from Burnham Ward.
After the usual opening exercises, the statisti-
cal and financial reports of the several branches
were read; also a letter from Sister E. R. S.
Smith was read and much appreciated.
	The brethren and sisters who spoke were
filled with the good spirit, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of Mormonism. Bro.
Wm. Halls spoke on the sphere of woman,
and felt thankful for this organization.
	Bishop Burnham exhorted us all to remem-
ber the good instructions we had received, and
felt to bless all good people.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few appropri-
ate remarks, and conference was then adjourned
Until March, 1886. Singing. Benediction by
Bishop Nielson.
		JANE M. WALTON, Stake Prest.,
		IDA E. NIELSON, SECRETARY pro tem.
------
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The twenty-sixth quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle in Brigham city, on
the 8th of September, commencing at 10 a.m.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun.
Susannah P. Booth. Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said she felt thankful
that she had the privilege of being present;
thankful that so many enjoyed the same privi-
lege; encouraged the sisters to attend these
meetings. Spoke of the necessity of the secre-
taries making the reports correctly.
	The various reports were then read by the
secretary, Mary E. Snow, also the Resolutions
of Respect to our departed sister, Mary Stark,
were read by Emilia D. Madsen, and accepted
by the assembly unanimously.
	Bishop Tingey had enjoyed himself greatly
by attending the ladies’ conference; had won-
dered at so few being present. Related a cir-
cumstance in the life of the Prophet Joseph
and David Whitmer, showing how the sisters
who attend meeting will gain the blessing and
Spirit of the Lord, instead of those who ne-
glect to come. Said, "Your work and cares
will be lightened by coming together and
gathering strength.” Compared the persecution
of the present day with the Book of Mormon
—how the ancient Saints passed through severe
trials. Said, “We must be faithful, you and I.
Why should we be faithful? That the bless-
ings of God may be poured out upon us.”
Spoke of coming times, and fervently praised
the goodness of God.
	Prest. Snow wished the sisters to be punctual
in the afternoon. Announced the Primary
Fair would be open at noon. Singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Benediction
by Bishop Tirigey.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Sister Harriet Hunsaker. The condensed
report was read by the secretary, Mary E.
Snow.
	Sister Hubbard,  President of the Relief
Society of Willard City, reported verbally,
and said, “We should put every good desire
into practice; many of us think we have hard
times, but as we progress we shall have all we

[column 2]
can bear. Our Heavenly Father is constantly
watching over us, hence we should try to live
so that we may always have His Spirit with
us.” Said many good things in her gentle,
peaceful way. Prayed the Lord to bless, us
all. Miss Fannie Graehl, Treasurer of the
Stake, read the account of the treasury.
	President E. A. Box: “1 have resolved that
I should spend one half day at least at this
conference. I have not attended many—not
because I consider these conferences of small
importance, but rather otherwise, and thought
that the sisters were more capable of counsel-
ing and instructing each other, being better
acquainted with the different vicissitudes each
one had to pass through. It has often been
said that these organizations are a great help
to the Priesthood, and I am well convinced
thereof. There is one thing sure and certain,
the Lord delights in His servants and in His
handmaidens who wish to learn concerning
His will. The more time we spend in meeting,
the less time we have to contend with the
other influences that surround us every day.”
Encouraged and expressed his appreciation of
the work of the sisters. “The trials that we
are passing through at the present day are
such as should cause every one to reflect—our
young men, our brethren and sisters, it is
true that this life is short, it is true that we
should look more to our spiritual affairs than
to our temporal. We may do many things
that are wrong and think it is right, through
our weakness, this we will be forgiven; but if
we persist and do willfully wrong, we will not
be forgiven.” Bro. Box spoke very lengthy
and with warm inspiration, and dwelt a great
deal on the power of a mother’s influence over
her children. Related an example of a man,
good and true, who went many miles: away
preaching the Gospel. He had a very unwise
wife; and their children are now the bitterest
enemies to the Church, and of another man
who apostatized, but his wife was firm and true,
and taught her children pure and correct
principles; her children are true and staunch
to-day.
	Bishop Jensen, from Bear River City, en-
dorsed what had beea said. “There is a great
deal of work for the mothers.” Spoke of the
signs of the times, and highly appreciated the
good accomplished by the Relief Society.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: “We want to learn to do
our duty properly; we want to understand princi-
ples;we want to work in harmony with thePriest-
hood, not to use an influence against them."
Encouraged the sisters in their good works.
	Sister Olivia Widerborg: “I earnestly ask
an interest in your faith and prayers. I feel 
to live my religion. Let us try to the end of
the journey of life to live so that we, may enter
into the presence of our Heavenly Father.”
	Sister Susannah P. Booth: "I never had
more determination to try and live my religion
than at the present time.” Spoke of the many
duties there are for us to fulfill as mothers, as
members of the Relief Society and as Latter-
day Saints. 
	Prest. E. A. Box stated that it was necessary
that Prest. Harriet Snow should have a new
counselor, and Sister Olivia Widerborg had
been selected.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. of Honey-
ville Relief Society, reported verbally. Said,
“I feel an interest in living my religion; let us
pray that we may be able to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord.”
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua Society, re-
ported verbally, and felt happy to be one with
the Latter-day Saints.
	Prest. H. Snow made closing remarks, and
adjourned conference for three months. Sing- 
ing. Benediction by Bishop Tingey.
