	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued)
	My mother's babe was a little over a month
old when father left with the pioneers. A
little black eyed, rosy cheeked girl, between
twelve and thirteen, had been given to them a
few days previous to father's leaving, whom
they adopted as their own. Her mother had
died on the journey from Nauvoo, leaving a
number of little children, that were taken by
different families. They came from England,
and the father was rather a worthless sort of
man, and seemed to care very little for child-
ren.
	The members of my mother's household
numbered fourteen, including herself. Three
of them were young men who were adopted in-
to father's family—Peter Hanson, George
Roads and Jacob Frazier, and three young
women—Harriet Sanders, father's wife,
Jenette Murray, a cousin of mine, Mary Fors-
green, Lucy and myself and five little brothers
made up her private family. Wm., her eldest,
acted as a guardian, and attended to the wants
of the families under his charge. Brothers
Daniel Davis and James Smithies were his as-
sistants, and helped to raise gardens and pro-
vided the needfuls to sustain life. The younger
boys attended to herding the cows, and they
were occasionally nearly frightened out of their
wits by Indians, who wanted to drive away
their cows. One day my little brother Charley
went out with them and had the misfortune to
lose his only hat; and had to go without for a
time, till he was so badly tanned that he was
usually called the half breed, and when asked
his name would invariably answer, "Charley
half-a-breed." He was only five years old, and
supposed that to be his real name. His hair
was very heavy and nearly black, and his skin
was fair, but after becoming so thoroughly
tanned, no one could believe him to have been
otherwise than dark.
	We had a varied and peculiar experience
from the time that we were left, till the return
of the pioneers. Things looked rather dark,
and to all appearance there was no earthly
source to which we could look. When one
meal was eaten, how the next was to be ob-
tained was something of a puzzle. But when
things looked the darkest, and want seemed
most imminent, some way or other we were
provided for, and relief came sometimes in a
way most marvelous. But to return:
	As I have previously mentioned, the scurvy
was raging in our midst, and a good many had
already died in consequence. Only a very few
potatoes could be obtained at that time of the
year, and for what we did get we had to pay a
high price. I, being among the poorly ones,
was indulged in this luxury, and which I shall
never forget, with the nice tea, which mother
had purchased of Aunt Sabra Granger, it be-
ing superior black tea, that which Col. Kane
had sent her.
	On the morning of May 6th I was delivered
of a beautiful and healthy girl baby, which
died at the birth. Thus the only bright star,
to which my doting heart had clung, was
snatched away, and, though it seemed a need-
less bereavement, and most cruel in the eyes of
all who beheld it, their sympathies were such
that, by their united faith and prayers, they
seemed to buoy me up to that degree that death
was shorn of its sting, till I could say, "Thy
will, not mine, be done." Three weeks of
suffering followed, when I was dressed one day,
but I took cold and was again prostrated, and
lay in a critical state for another three weeks,
a part of that time in a cold clammy sweat,
until everything on me was as wet as though
it had been drenched in cold water, and
death seemed determined to claim me, but I
was saved for a purpose. Before I was able
to sit up, the scurvy laid hold of me, commenc-
ing at the tips of the fingers of my left hand
with black streaks running up the nails, with
inflammation and the most intense pain, and
which increased till it had reached my shoul-
der. Poultices of scraped potato, the best
thing, it was considered, to subdue the inflamma-
tion; it would turn black as soon as applied,
and for all they were changed every few
minutes for fresh ones, it was all to no effect.
By this time I had lost all faith, and patience,
too, and, with a feeling of desperation, I arose,
and, taking the wrap and everything with it,
I threw it with such force that it went into the
fireplace on the opposite side of the room, say-
ing, "There you can stay, for I will never do
another thing for it!" and to my great surprise
I had no occasion to, as the pain and disease
had left me, and from that moment I felt no
more of it. Still there were other obstacles in
the way of my full recovery; though I was free
from pain, I remained in a feeble state for
some time, so that I had to lie down a goodly
portion of the time.
	In the early part of June a merchant, Amos
Davis, brother of Daniel Davis, and Mr. Kim-
ball, brother to the late John Kimball of Salt
Lake, arrived from Nauvoo with goods and
groceries and the best of wines, liquors, etc.
My mother rented them her dining room for a
store, and boarded them. This was an open-
ing as unlooked for as if manna had rained
down from heaven.


