EDITORIAL NOTES.

	DR. E. R. SHIPP makes a specialty of practis-
ing and teaching the art of obstetrics. The
present term of her school closes December, 1885,
and another begins on the 2nd of January, 1886,
when new students will be received on the most
favorable terms. For full particulars communicate
with Dr. E. R. Shipp, personally, or by letter, No.
18, Main Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. H. AMELIA F. YOUNG returned on
Saturday, October 31st, from a visit to some of
the Eastern States. Mrs. Young left the city on
the 27th of June last to visit relatives, friends and
acquaintances, and has traveled quite extensively
in the east, visiting Buffalo, New York, Boston,
and many other places. She returns in good
health and spirits, well satisfied with her "summer
out."
	A SISTER who called on us recently from St.
David, Arizona, gave a very interesting account
of the Relief Society of that place, under the
presidency of Sister Maria McRae. The Society
are preparing to put up a good sized house, in
which meetings can be held; the foundation is laid
and the adobies are made, and considerable means
has been already made through the industry and
perseverance of the sisters, and it is expected
that they will have a Fair,which will be sufficiently
elaborate to raise means to furnish the building.
This is quite an undertaking for the sisters in a
small place,and where everything is so new. They
deserve very great credit for their energy and en-
terprise.
	ON Monday morning, October 19th, Sisters
Sarah M. Kimball and Elmina S. Taylor of this
city, and Sister Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington
left this city by the Utah Southern train to visit
the associations in the southern part of Utah Coun-
ty. Arriving at Santaquin, they held a con-joint
meeting of the Y. L. and P. A. The next day
they visited Goshen, where they held two meet-
ings, one with the Y. L. and the other with the
Primary. On Wednesday they visited Payson,
where they were joined by Sister Elizabeth How-
ard of Big Cottonwood, and they held three meet-
ings, one with the Relief Society, one with the Y.
L. and one with the Primary Association. On
Thursday morning Sister E. Howard joined Sister
M. W. Snow at Spanish Fork for the purpose of
visiting with her the Relief Society and associa-
tions in Emery Stake. The other sisters visited
Salem, and held two meetings there, one with the
Y. L. and one with the Primary. The following
day they went to Spanish Fork—Sister Mary John
and Annie Smoot had come over from Provo
—where they held three meetings, all numerously
attended. The Primary there they found to be a
very superior one. Saturday they went to Spring-
ville, and held a meeting with the Relief Society
and Y. L. The sisters enjoyed their visit very
much indeed, and no doubt they accomplished
much good among those they visited by their
counsel and encouragement.


