							MARY ANN SMART.

	DIED, in Holden, Oct. 9th, 1885, of old age, Polly
Stringam, wife of the late George Stringam. Sister
Stringam was born in Broom Co., New York, April 3rd,
1803. She embraced the Gospel in the year 1832, and
strove to keep its precepts by being truthful and exemplary
in her daily life, and was among the first who joined the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, and has been an active member
in the different settlements where she has been a resident.
She was loved by all who knew her for her kind, motherly
ways; her mind was always reaching out to do good. She
loved to speak of the goodness of God, and converse on
the principles of life and salvation. She donated freely to
the poor, and was ever on hand to do good.
	Mother Stringam has five living children, sixty-six grand
-children, sixty-five great-grandchildren, and many near
and dear friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting house,
which was well filled. Apostle Erastus Snow preached the
funeral discourse, followed by W. H. King, of Filmore.
Mother Stringam departed this life without a struggle, with
a full hope of a glorious resurrection, and on her death-
bed bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
			KATE STEVENS, Asst. Secretary R. S.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we re-
cord the death of our most esteemed sister, Marie Lindeloff,
who departed this life Oct. 5th. 1885, at her residence, in
Plain City, Weber Co., Utah, after suffering one week with
congestion of the lungs.
	Deceased was born at Tirop, Sweden, on the 28th of
August, 1823. Baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in 1858; emigrated to Utah in 1861.
She has been a member of the Plain City Ward twenty-
three years.
	Sister Lindeloff was, for a long time past, very often ex-
pressing her desire to do something to help others, and,
although a very weakly woman, seemed so anxious to
work, and many times in meeting would,say, “If I could
only do some good!” Finally she determiued to go to the
Deseret Hospital, where she worked as nurse and Matron
for nine months, ministering as an angel of mercy to the
sick and the dying, while she always comforted those who
mourned. She was very much beloved by both officers


and patients, and expressed great regret, in consequence of
ill health, at leaving so many dear friends there.
	Sister Lindeloff has, for seventeen years, been a most
faithful teacher in the Relief Society in this place. Her
house was always open for meetings and business of the
Society. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause she had espoused, diligent and faithful in all her
duties, kind and benevolent to the poor, charitable to the
erring, meek and humble in spirit, exemplary in all the re-
lations of life, with an unfaltering faith in God and her
religion. She was beloved by all who knew her, and died
in the hope of a glorious resurrection to inherit eternal life
in the mansions of the just.
				ALMIRA RAYMOND, President,
				M. A. W. SPIERS, Sectetary.


