NOTES AND NEWS.

  "Mrs. Ole Bull is again at home at Elm-
wood." 
   "Mme. Nilsson has been decorated with
Russian and Danish orders.
   "In Green Co., Ind., a woman is sheriff and
has charge of the jail.”

 "Mrs. Grant, it is said, receives half a bushel
of letters and newspapers every day.”

   "Mrs. Helen Jackson is said to have had an
income of $3,000 a year from her writings
during her most active literary period.”

   "Mme. Christine Nilsson, it is said, has final-
ly determined to settle in England, and is
sumptuously decorating a house in Kensington
Court.”

   "Jenny Lind will sing in public this summer
for the first time in twenty-two years, in aid of
the Children's Infirmary in Norwich, Eng-
land."

   "Colonel T. W. Higginson contributes to
the current number of Science an article on
'American Flash Language,' with lists of words
and phrases.”

   "The New Era for October publishes in full
the paper read by Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney be-
fore the Association for the advancement of
Women, on "Woman in the Brahmo Somaj.”

   "At the recent rifle festival in Austria, a
Tyrolese peasant girl carried a standard that


was first used in 1646, when the women of
Bregenz, the canton to which she belonged,
victoriously repelled the Swedes."
   "The census of 1885 gives the whole number
of women in Massachusetts as 1,009,036. There
are 66,607 more women than men in the State.
This is an increase since the census returns of
1880 of 402."
  "The City in which municipal suffrage has just
been granted to women is Madras, not Madrid,
as was erroneously stated in the telegraphic
despatches. So much the worse for Madrid,
and so much the better for Madras.”

 The total number of self-supporting women
and girls over ten years of age in the United
States is 2,647,157. This number does not in-
clude the unpaid domestic labor in the home,
which is done by the wives, sisters,and mothers,
who are said to be ‘supported’ by their male
relatives. The census enumerates these women
among those "employed in no gainful labor.”
—Boston Transcript.

 “Mrs. Le Brenton, who died recently in
England in her seventy-eighth year, was a
niece of Lucy Aiken, the historian, and a
grandaughter of the well-known Gilbert
Wakefield, names which recall a long-past
literary generation. Though not a writer by
profession, she had a ready and graceful pen,
and will be remembered as the author of a
memoir of Mrs. Barbauld, and of a more re-
cently-published book, "Memories of Seventy
Years," which abounds in anecdotes and recol-
lections of such persons as Coleridge, S. Rogers,
Crabb, Robinson, George Dyer, the G. D. of
Elia, Flaxman, Stothard, Professor Smyth,
Malthus, Joanna Baillie, Ram Mohua Roy, and
many others whom she had known in early
life."


