IN MEMORIAM.

	"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
		A shadow on those features fair and thin.
	And softly, from that hushed and darkened room,
		Two angels issued where but one went in.”

	DIED, suddenly, of heart disease, at 23 minutes to nine,
on the morning of October 2nd, Miss Cornelia Pearl Cook,
at the residence of her mother in this city. Deceased was
born June 5th, 1843, at La Fayette, Onondaga County,
New York, and was the second daughter of Dr. Wm. J.
and Sophia Cook.
	Miss Cornelia, as she was generally called, was the sister
of Miss Mary E. and Miss Ida I. Cook, well known in Utah
in the capacity of teachers, who have obtained marked
celebrity in the profession. 								
	Miss Cornelia came to Utah in 1876, and was for some
time afterward a resident in the Lion House, where her
sister, Miss Mary Cook, was located. The family of
Brigham Young was very much attached to her, and indeed
she possessed those lovely, endearing qualities of heart and
manner that would draw out the tender sentiments of af-


fection from those with whom she mingled, and she always
seemed to take great delight in visiting there and in refer-
ing to the time when President Young was alive, as a period
when she had fully enjoyed the society into which she was
providentially thrown. She was one of those delicate,
sensitive creatures that required the bright sunshine of
life, and the care and attention of loving friends and com-
panions—an invalid from childhood, watched over with the
most tender solicitude of parents and sisters, yet ever
patient and cheerful, though suffering severe bodily pain,
and always thoughtful of the feelings and rights of others.
She was a beautiful character to study, always gentle, pas-
sive and pleasing, when suffering agonizing pain. Miss
Cornelia loved to do good to others, and though all her
life she carried a burden of sorrow and pain, she was more
appreciative and grateful than many whose paths are strewn
with roses. She was a devoted and faithful daughter, and,
during the last three weeks of her life watched and tended,
night and day, her afflicted mother, who was lying very
dangerously ill. All her thoughts had been for her mother,
totally forgetful of self, until she sunk down exhausted, and
departed to that "beautiful land of rest,” where the weary
cease from suffering, and where all is joy and peace.
	May He who watches over all, and who knows the needs
of all hearts comfort the stricken mother, the loving sisters
and the dear children who mourn for their affectionate
"Aunt Cornelia." 
	The funeral services were conducted at the residence, on
Sunday morning, Oct. 4th, at 10 a.m. Singing by the
quartette, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, Miss Louie Wells,
J. D. Spencer and H.G. Whitney. The first hymn “Rest.”
Prayer by Apostle H. J. Grant. Singing, "Unveil thy
bosom faithful tomb." Appropriate and consoling remark
were made by Bishop Whitney, after which the touching,
exquisite hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," was sweetly
rendered, and Presiding Bishop, Wm. B. Preston, offered
the closing prayer.	
	Choice and fragrant flowers were artistically arranged
upon her coffin—the tribute of loving friends. She looked
serenely beautiful as she lay at rest in her last sleep, a sweet
smile overspreading her lovely, angelic features. 
	E.B.W

	We the officers and members of the Eighth Ward Y.
L. M. T. A. do tender these Resolutions of Respect to
the memory of Sister Sarah Helen Stringfellow Morris, who
departed this life September 28th, 1885, aged twenty
years, nine months and ten days, after a short illness of the
fatal disease.  Diphtheria—the fourth and only remaining
child within a week, leaving the parents prostrate with
grief. She was loved and respected by all her associates,
and a faithful member of our Association.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our dear sister.
	Resolved, therefore, That we tender our deepest sym-
pathies to the family and friends of our departed sister,
praying that the comforting influence of our Heavenly
Father may rest upon them and fill their hearts with peace,
that they may bow in humble submission to His will, feel-
ing that He doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also, that a copy be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication, and a copy be inserted in our
paper, entitled Progress, and recorded on the minutes.
	S. A. HAWKINS,
	LUCY CHAMBERLAIN, Committee.
	LUCY OAKEY
	M. P. YOUNG, President.


