	A FEW EVENING REFLECTIONS.

	The wicked have brought sore trials upon
us, but woe! woe! to them by whom they come.
While we, a few of God’s chosen ones, are
striving to obey God’s divine laws, and keep
His commandments, the sinners in Zion delight

[column 2]
﻿in persecuting, robbing and heaping, all man-
ner of iniquity upon God’s chosen ones. But,
“blessed are ye when men shall revile you,
persecute you, and say all manner of evil
against you, falsely, for my sake, for great is
your reward in heaven.”
	Many of us are struggling with poverty and
trials of various kinds, but this should not pre-
vent us from seeking eternal riches. We should
seek to obtain the most favorable position for
perfecting and elevating our lives and charac-
ters. As Saints of the most high God, this is a
duty we owe to ourselves, to society and to our
God, through whom we derive our being. We
should endeavor to become intelligent beings,
growing in grace, and in the knowledge of the
truth of the divine Gospel. The most illiterate
may be elevated, sanctified and ennobled by
the Spirit and the divine word of God. If
the love of Christ dwells in our hearts, we will
not be content to keep a low level, and will not
associate with those who will have no influence
to increase our aspirations after knowledge or
holiness. May we not unite with the ungodly.
The wicked are wholly absorbed in the things
of this life; they forget the claims of their
Maker, and think only of self-gratification.
The pure in heart will not pursue such a course,
but will set an example, and influence to win
the ungodly from selfish aims and sensual in-
dulgence, to higher motives and purer joys.
We are living in a most solemn period of
earth’s history; the divine judgments are again
to be poured out upon the world; the prophet
declares that God’s people are not in darkness,
and the day of wrath shall not overtake them
as a thief.
	We should be Saints of most serious thoughts
and earnest prayers. The pure and undefiled
religion of Jesus Christ satisfies the cravings
of the mind, ennobles the aspirations and puri-
fies the heart. When the love of Christ is
formed within, the hope of glory and the true
joyous life of the soul begins. Those who feed
upon the bread of life will become strong and
vigorous to labor for God’s kingdom and for
their fellow men. God’s word declares that
our Savior is soon to come in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory; we are ad-
monished to watch and pray for His appearing.
The ministers of the various sects are teaching
that the reckoning day of God will not come
for thousands of years, and while the world is
wrapped in darkness and wilful unbelief, the
night of gloom is fast approaching.
	Let us, who are of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, be sober and upon
the watch tower. By the intensity of our faith
and the purity of our love, let us show we be-
lieve in God the Father and His Son Jesus
Christ, who is soon to act as Judge, our King
and law-giver. When He comes He will re-
ward us according to our works; to those who
have been faithful it will be said, “Well done,
good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of
thy Lord.”
						M. HOLDEN.
	Parley’s Park.


" 'Brattleboro' in Verse and Prose," a volume
compiled by Mr. Cecil Hampden Howard, of
'the Astor Library,' New York, will be issued
early in November from the publishing rooms
of Frank E. Housh, of Brattleboro'. It will
contain selections from Mrs. Helen Jackson,
Fanny Fern, Wallace Bruce, General J. W.
Phelps, Colonel T. W. Higginson and others."


