			HUMILITY.

	"Humility is eldest born of virtue,
	And claims the birth at the throne of heaven."

	What! claims its birth at the throne of hea-
ven! And dare we do otherwise than to
humble ourselves before our Creator? Alas! I
am afraid that the hearts of many of us are
far, far from being meek and humble. Wealth
and position cause many of the weaker mind-
ed of our sex to forget the example Jesus has
set before us, or the commandments that He
has caused to be written out for us to follow
after. In the language of the Bible, “Every
one that is proud in heart is an abomination to
the Lord. Though hand join in hand he shall
not be unpunished.”  Again, “Better is littl

[Column 2]
with righteousness than great revenues without
right.”	
	Then dare we assume haughtiness and false
pride when we have such an assurance that it
incurs the displeasure of our Father in heaven?
Quoting from Matthew, 18th chapter, “At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying:
Who is the greater in the kingdom of heaven?
And Jesus called a little child unto Him, and
set him in the midst of them, and said: Verily
I say unto you, except ye be converted and be-
come as little children, ye shall not enter into
the kingdom of heaven.”
	Then how important it is that we do as He
bids, and humble ourselves even as unto a lit-
tle child. Yes, it is actually necessary for us
to cultivate humility of character, in order
that we may be ever pure and holy. If wo
will do this, it will not only please our Father
in heaven, but we will appear much more re-
fined, cultivated and original.
	"Please know, humility of heart
	Does to our sex new charm impart.”
	Who of us had not rather meet with a person
with a pure, sweet, humble spirit, than one of
those cold, haughty natures, that seem to be
always saying, “Don’t touch or come near, I
am better than you!”  Such a one may dress
and flaunt, but they never seem beautiful.  A
good, magnanimous disposition is worth far
more than haughtiness brought on from conceit
of one’s own worth. We cannot be wafted to
heaven in chariots of gold, but instead, must
lie down in our grave with a meek, prayerful
spirit, or we will not be accounted worthy to
enter the courts of heaven.
	In these critical times how necessary it is
that we, as women of Zion, as mothers and
wives of men holding the holy Priesthood,
should lay aside our worldliness and love of
wealth and display and set the example of hu-
mility before our children, that we may not be
the cause of their going astray.
	Walking along the streets in the city, the
prophecies spoken of in Isaiah, 3rd chapter,
are most forcibly brought to mind—the fulfil-
ment of them concerning the women of Zion
in the last days are plainly to be seen. Even
little children will make such a display of
themselves that it grieves one’s heart to be-
hold. The question will arise, What are their
mothers thinking of? Children apparently
ten or fifteen years older than what they really
are. All too early they have learned to love
display of dress, and carry themselves with a
haughtiness not becoming to them. Who has
taught them this? Does this please our Hea-
venly Father? We know it does not. Then
let us beware and take heed, lest we be tread-
ing on miry grounds and sink deep ere we find
out our mistake.
	Sisters, the most beautiful jewels a women
can adorn herself with are humility, virtue,
modesty and intelligence. They contain no
dross, but are the real genuine metal. Adorned
with these, the most homely face will reflect
forth the soul within, until it appears really
beautiful.	 IDA.


[column 1]
