WHAT WOMAN’S LOVE CAN DO.

	Edward the First, King of England, was dangerously
wounded in the "Holy war" by a poisoned arrow. Queen
Eleanor, his wife, without regard to her own danger,
sucked the poison from the wound. This good action made
her greatly beloved, and when she died grand crosses were
erected in remembrance of her wherever the hearse, that
carried her remains, stopped to refresh the attendants.
Only one remains, and it is in a ruinons condition.
	I sing of love, exalted and supreme,
	The love of woman and a regnant queen;
	Elena, loving wife of Edward, one
	Their kingdom England, and their royal home.
	Well may such love as hers call from above
	A smile from HIM, whose attribute is love!
	Such love will surely ope the door of heaven,
	And for its guerdon frailties be forgiven.
	His wife was near when he to battle went,
	Watching with heart and eye the grand event,
	When lo! her loved one to her tent was borne—
	By poisoned arrow had his flesh been torn!
	A "Leech” declares there must some one be found,
	One who will suck the poison from the wound;
	The royal life was ebbing fast away—
	Oh, awful cloud o’er that eventful day!
	But who will cast their life on such a dye?
	A very angel, listening, hovers nigh;
	"Teach my unpracticed lips how to proceed,
	And I, in God and love, will do the deed!”
	"Edward, my husband, God a strength will give,
	My loving soul, that England’s king may live."
	His arm enfolds her, and a deadly groan
	Tells his deep anguish in the words, "My own!”
	The deadly gash she clasps with her sweet lips,
	From out the wound the rancorous poison strips;
	"He lives! he lives! Edward, my king, will live,
	Thro' God’s blest aid his life restored, I give!"
	Words are all vain, and language spoils to tell
	Such act angelic—but ’twill ever dwell
	In England’s archives; yes, that noble queen
	Still lives on history's page with holy sheen.	
	And when this queen had passed her life’s last day,
	Where the hearse staid, that bore her form away,
	A cross was raised, to tell the sacred dust
	Had for one night been held in holy trust. 
	Centuries are fled, long years have come and gone,
	Yet still one cross remains in mouldering stone,
	And all who pass still gaze with tear and sigh;
	Remembering her, whose love can never die.
	Immortal are such deeds, they know no death,
	They are of heaven, fed by heaven’s breath;
	Illumin’d missal of th’ historic page,
	That keeps the volume bright from age to age.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 13, 1885.


[Column 1]
