PATTY SESSIONS. 

[Continued.]
	(On the 29th and 30th of March, 1847, Sister
Sessions speaks of having planted seeds of
various kinds, and beginning to make a garden.)
	Every one who knows anything of our so-
journ in Winter Quarters must remember how
delighted we all were with the idea of having
"garden stuff," after having been so long with-
out this sort of food, and suffering, as many of
the people had, with scurvy and other ailments,
in consequence. To those unacquainted with-
these matters it might seem a trifling affair,
but not so to those who had been deprived of
the blessing of vegetable food.
	(Sister Sessions alludes to many little
"spiritual feasts," or meetings, in which the
gift of tongues and interpretation, as well as
prophecy, were given to comfort the sisters in
the midst of severe trials through which they
were passing.)
	April 1st, she writes that she was with
Apostle Orson Pratt's wife, Sarah, in her con-
finement, and spent the remainder of the day
in visiting and attending to the sick, adminis-


[column 1]
tering to their temporal and spiritual needs.
Then she writes of having, given pork, corn
meal and other things, to help some of the
pioneers who were preparing for the journey to
the Rocky Mountains.
	On the 6th of April, 1847, Sister Sessions
attended the conference held at Winter Quar-
ters, a time long to be remembered by those
assembled on that occasion, so full of interest
to the Saints, when the conference adjourned
sine die. The following day most of the
pioneers started out on the journey. On the
8th Parley P. Pratt, one of the Apostles, arrived
at Winter Quarters, on his return from a mis-
sion to England. 
	Friday, the 9th, she writes, "Most of the
Twelve have gone out with the pioneers. Sun-
day, the 11th, went to meeting; Elder Parley
P. Pratt preached, giving us a synopsis of his
journey and of his mission to England. Tues-
day, the 13th, visited Sister E. R. Snow; en-
joyed ourselves very much; the Spirit of the
Lord was with us."
	Wednesday, the 14th, she writes, "The
Twelve returned on Monday from where the
pioneers were encamped, and have started
again this morning for the mountains. Elder
John Taylor, one of the Twelve Apostles, came
home from England last night, neither Elder
Taylor or Elder Pratt are going with the
pioneers. Thursday, the 15th, Louis Robinson
arrived last night, and brought me a letter
from Windsor P. Lyon, Sylvia's husband. Re-
ceived a visit from Sister Leonard, Lamb and
Miller." Sister Sessions writes of the scarcity
of provisions, and what hard work it is even
to get a little corn meal. "Sunday, the 18th,
Porter Rockwell and others leave to go on and
join the pioneers. Wednesday, the 21st, Pere-
grine and my daughter Sylvia and her child
came. I was almost overcome with joy and
gratitude to God for our preservation to see
each other again. The next day my son
David came, and I was almost overjoyed to
have my children, from whom I had been separa-
ted, around the table once more with father
and mother all rejoiced together. While
Sylvia was with me, we enjoyed ourselves to-
gether very much indeed.
	"On Sunday, the 25th, Elder John Taylor
preached; he had just returned from a mission
to England. After meeting we called on Sister
Nobles and Sister Ashley. Monday, the 26th.
Bro. Major is taking our portraits. Visited at
Sister Pearce's with Sisters Mary Ann Young,
Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Eliza R. Snow and others, and in the evening
we had a good meeting, in which we enjoyed
much of the Spirit of the Lord. Wednesday,
the 28th. Visited with Lucy W. Kimball,
Frances Swann Kimball, Laura Pitkin and
others. Friday, the 30th, Sylvia and I visited
at Brigham Young's with several of his wives.
This visiting among the sisters and having
spiritual meetings was what kept many from
being cast down and giving way to their feel-
ings during those days of anxiety. Tuesday,
May 4th, Sylvia packed up her things to return
to Nauvoo. Bro. Anson Call came down from
Punkaw." Then she speaks of Sylvia being
detained on account of the wind blowing so
they could not cross the river, and of a visit
to Sister E. R. Snow, who wrote some verses
as a memento and comfort for Sister Sylvia
Lyons.
	TO MRS. SYLVIA LYONS, BY MISS E. R. SNOW.
		Go, thou loved one, God is with thee,
			He will be thy stay and shield,
		And fulfill each precious promise,
			Which His spirit has revealed.

		From thy father and thy mother,
			Who are twined around thy heart,
		Also from thine elder brother,
			Thou art called a while to part.

		But thy husband will caress thee,
			And thy sweet, angelic child,

[column 2]
		With her growing charms, will bless thee—
			Thus the hours shall be beguiled.

		And thy younger brother, David,
			With his harmless, social glee—
		With the heart and hand of kindness—
			Often times will comfort thee.

		And the Saints of God who're banished
			From their country and their home,
		Who, for Jesus' testimony
			In the wilderness now roam,

		Will, with prayers and supplication,
			Plead thy cause before the throne
		Of the great Eternal Father,
			Where thy works of love are known,

		Guardian Angels will protect thee,
			And the spirit's still, small voice
		Will, from day to day, direct thee,
			Therefore let thy heart rejoice.

		O my Father! thou that dwelleth
			In the upper courts of light,
		Open Thou the path before her,
			Guide, O guide her feet aright.


