		﻿LAW AND MARRIAGE.

	The agitation throughout the United States, and
indeed in some other parts of the world, concern-
ing the religious principles and institutions of the
people of Utah, to one entirely unprejudiced,must
seem, to say the least, uncalled for, and certainly
in those who have correct ideas of religious free-
dom, it must awaken earnest thought upon the
subject. When we look back upon the early
settlers of this far-famed country, and recall the
struggles for freedom and religious liberty, made
under the most trying circumstances, and by
strenuous effort and determined will; it seems in-
credible that only one hundred years should
elapse after the establishment of that dearly-
bought independence,until the same sort of tyranny
and persecution for religious belief, which our
forefathers suffered, should exist in this boasted
land of liberty, the asylum for the oppressed of all
nations.
	It may, perhaps, be argued that men are not
punished for belief, and yet it is true in many ways;
disfranchisement is punishment, and to many it is
severe. Ostracism from society is punishment;
to some it is actual suffering, and in ways that are
too numerous to mention here,“Mormons”are pun-
ished for belief only, without ever having broken
or infringed upon any law of the land.
	For years past, at every session of Congress,
new measures have been introduced for the ex-
press purpose of restraining “Mormons” in their
faith and practice,and to hinder their conscientious
convictions of the truth of those principles that
were practised in ancient times by men who walked
and talked with God.
	Marriage is as much the privilege of woman as
of man, and the commandment given to our first
parents was as imperative upon Eve as upon
Adam, and it has never been revoked. But men
have changed this command to suit their own
ideas, and have denied to woman, through their
established systems, the privilege of bearing
children. Maternity may be justly recognized as
the strongest attribute of woman’s nature, yet
custom and man-made laws have hindered hun-
dreds and thousands of women—we might even
say an innumerable number—from enjoying the
precious boon of motherhood. Shut out from
honorable marriage, they have not been able to fill
up the measure of their creation, or to realize the
fulness of the blessing of offspring, the supreme
joy of being a mother. Lonely and unloved they
have lived and died, without ever satisfying the
yearning for connubial companionship, and the
soul’s more intense longing for children to call
one’s own. The vast majority of women are too
pure in their nature ever to condescend to any
conditions except that of marriage, and would
prefer death to dishonor, and therefore live on
lonely and often desolate, using their time and
talents, as opportunity offers, in doing good and
promoting the welfare and happiness of others.
	It is always commendable to do good to others,

[Column 2]
but every individual born into this stage of exist-
ence has a duty to himself or herself, an object in
life above the simple fact of existence, and what
is there so lofty and sublime as to give life to the
immortal soul, that is, in so far as men and women
are the actual authors of life. To bestow life, a
life that can never perish, is worth all the suffering
and sacrifice the mother can make.
	And yet, in this enlightened age, we hear that
there are too many children being born. Does
not our Heavenly Father know how to carry on
His own work in the peopling of this world that
we inhabit. All who believe in the supremacy of
God must acknowledge this. Then why should
men change the order of the Almighty? Because,
as the Scripture says, “They are altogether gone
astray.” Women have not had power in their
hands to change the laws and customs, and can-
not, therefore, be held accountable for not fulfill-
ing duty, the same as men are; their delicacy
and the established rules of society and propriety
are such that women are not free agents in these
matters. One of the greatest writers and poets
has said,
	“Man's love is of man’s life a thing apart,
	'Tis woman's whole existence.”
If this is not really,it is partially true, at any rate;
and knowing this, how incomplete is the life of
single women. We are not arguing that plural
marriage is for all men, not by any means, for
only the very best men, with the highest motives
of action and the most sublime principles of life
ought ever to undertake such grave responsibili-
ties. This marriage question is an endless sub-
ject, but suffice it to say, that if womanly women,
who have the reverence for motherhood that God
has implanted in their nature, were to be honor-
able wives there would be a large proportion
over seven to each good, moral, virtuous, upright
man.
	However, Congress has decided to settle this
vexed question of plural marriage without regard
to the parties most interested,and deprive women,
who desire honorable marriage and homes of their
own, of that blessed privilege which God intended
all the daughters of Eve to enjoy. If Congress
takes upon itself such a heavy responsibility, there
will be a terrible reckoning “some day,” for all
those who have taken part in or consented thereto.
	It is already noised about that Cullom is prepar-
ing another anti-Mormon bill, so rabid, severe
and obnoxious, that even some of the most bitter
enemies of the “Mormon” people think it an ex-
treme measure, and one that will work very great
evil. The Utah commission have made their an-
nual report, and advised more severe punishment
for those who live with and recognize the wives
that they have most solemnly covenanted to love,
cherish and honor. Imprisonment, or punish-
munt, however severe, cannot touch men’s con-
sciences, and God has not revealed this principle
to His chosen prophet in this day and age to be
cast aside as a thing of naught. He had a pur-
pose in it, and that purpose will be accomplished,
if fifty-five millions of people have decided
against it. It would be amusing if it were not
such a serious subject, to read the newspaper
comments throughout the world on the condition
of things in Utah, they are so wide of the mark
and ridiculous. The following is an instance:
	“Mormon teachings from the pulpit are univer-
sally for first, boycotting all persons except Mor-
mons;”	*	*	*	then	goes	on with other as-
sertions equally false, and calculated to produce
the impression that there is no respect for law or
order observed. There is less bitterness mani-
fested even by those who have had to submit to
the most trying ordeals than one could suppose;
and as to posing as martyrs, men who are im-
prisoned because of having obeyed a divine law
with an honest conviction that they were further-
ing the purposes of the Almighty, are martyrs to
principle, and cannot, in any true sense, be re-

[Column 3]
garded or ranked as criminals, and there is a
time coming when this matter will be adjudicated
by a much higher tribunal than the Supreme
Court of the United States, for judgment is in the
hands of God, who will “reward every man ac-
cording to his works, whether his deeds be good
or evil.” “God will not be mocked,” neither can
men trample upon His laws with impunity. Al-
ready many so-called Christians, who once be-
lieved implicitly in the Bible, are throwing aside
the Old Testament, or regard it only as a fable or
romance, because it sustains patriarchal marriage,
and prophesies destruction, desolation, etc., and
no doubt ere long the New Testament will contain
too much truth for them, especially in its references
to the twelve sons of Jacob, the lineage of the
Savior, and other similar matters.


