CORRESPONDENCE.

	SYLVESTER, Michigan, Oct. 22nd, 1885.
DEAR SISTER:
	It always affords me joy to commune with those
who have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, have
been made partakers of that Holy Spirit, which


flows on those who strive to live by its teachings
Those only can realize the same who are in pos-
session of the same spirit, and when I address a
few lines to those who are in connection with this
Church, it seems to me like writing home, for my
heart and feelings are with them and all their
works, and when I read this worthy little paper,
the EXPONENT, it fills my heart with joy to see how
the sisters are progressing in the cause and king-
dom of God on this earth, which is never to be
thrown down nor given to another people.
	Dear sister, I have been a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for ten years,
but never had the privilege of gathering with the
Saints. I have always tried to live a true, faithful
Latter-day Saint, although deprived of the associa-
tion of any one of the Saints. I am alone, but
feel that God is with me. I know this is the work
of God; it comforts His children, and makes them
acquainted with one another, if they never see
each other, and it causes us to love one another.
It is a glorious work, and though we may be tried
in every way, let us be firm and pray for an in-
crease of faith and firmness, and if we are united
all will be well; we will be able to come off more
than conquerors, for the promises of God cannot
fail.
	Often, when alone, meditating on the sisters of
Zion, I ask myself, "Will I ever have the happy
privilege of mingling with the Saints of God?"
It seems a long time since I had that privilege,
but my heart is with the Saints; their feelings and
hopes are mine, and often, when thinking of these
glorious principles in that little paper that comes
to me, I find the same feelings and words I think
of, and it makes me feel happy to realize that
there are some who have the same hopes I have.
I am trying to live my religion all I can,but I have
no one to give me a word of encouragement or in-
struction, but God alone; I am very thankful for
His loving kindness to me. I want to come home
to Zion, for I have a work to attend to in the holy
Temple of the Lord. I shall come to Zion the
first chance I have.
	I have felt in trouble about the Saints there, but
I know God is with them; He is at the helm, never
fear; when the cup of iniquity is full, He will then
lay bare His arm and come out of His hiding
place and set His people free.
	I pray God to bless you all, and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to bear the trials of the
present crusade and live humble and prayerful.
May God bless the worthy sisters, is the humble
prayer of
	Your sister in the Gospel,
