Vol. 14	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1885.	No. 10.


[Column 1]
﻿AN EPISTLE FROM THE FIRST
		PRESIDENCY.
			-------
To the Officers and Members of the
   Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
   day Saints:
  BRETHREN AND SISTERS.—As the
time for holding our Semi-annual Con-
ference has again come around, and we
are still prevented from addressing the
Saints in public, we deem it proper to
take this method of communicating
with you, that you may know the coun-
sel we have to give, and that we are not
neglectful of the duties which devolve
upon us as the First Presidency of the
Church.
  As all the Saints doubtless under-
stand, there has been no cessation since
we last wrote, in the work of persecu-
tion. It rages, if anything, more fierce-
ly than ever. Under cover of what is
called the Edmunds law, the most
outrageous acts of oppression are being
perpetrated against the Latter-day
Saints. The avowal has been openly
made that this law was expressly de-
signed for the destruction of a principle
of our religion, and in this spirit all
the prosecutions have been conducted.
Thus far no criminal, however guilty,
who has not been a “Mormon,” has
been punished under it. Acts of the
most sickening depravity have been
committed by non-“Mormons” within
easy reach of its arm but have scarce-
ly had a passing notice. While it is
also worthy of note that, up to the
present writing, out of all who have
been accused and brought before the
District court, only one “Mormon” has
been acquitted. The man acquitted,
we understand, was charged with being
the husband of a woman, on the ground
that he had camped in his wagon in a
ten acre lot in which her residence
stood and had carried some chickens
for her to market!
  One of the most remarkable features
connected with the administration of
this law is the extraordinary rulings
which are made in its enforcement.
The Judge who presides in the Second
Judicial District, in the recent trial of
a case of unlawful cohabitation, gave
instructions to the jury, at the request
of the defense. Several accused per-
sons would have been cleared in the
Third Judicial District, had the juries.
which rendered verdicts in their cases,
been similarly instructed. They are as
follows:
 1. Prior to the act of March 22d, 1882, co-
habitation with more than one woman was
not unlawful.
  2.  If you find from the evidence that the
defendant, since the passage of the Ed-
munds act, March 22d, 1882, and within the
dates named in the indictment, has not held
out to the world, introduced, or announced
more than one of the women named in the
indictment as his wife, you should acquit
the defendant.
  3.  It is not necessary that the parties to
a polygamous marriage, or who have lived
in the practice of cohabiting with two or
more women, should divorce themselves, in
order to entitle them to the presumption of
innocence of cohabitation after the passage
of the law.
  4.  As all children of polygamous mar-
riages, begotten before March 22nd, 1882,are
legitimated,and no cohabitation before that
date was unlawful, no criminating infer-
ence can be drawn by the jury from the de-
fendant’s later acknowledgments of his pa-
ternity of such children by the women men-
tioned in the indictment, nor from later
recognition of such women as their
mothers, and as women whom he had be-
fore said date, taken into the polygamous
relation with him.
  6.  The law presumes innocence, and
therefore, that all persons who were co-
habiting when the Edmunds act took effect,
contrary to the provisions of that act, then
ceased to do so.
  8.  The law presumes all persons charged
with a criminal offense to be innocent until
the presumption is overcome by proof;
therefore it presumes that all persons who
were living with more than one woman as
wives prior to March 22d, 1882, have since
that date ceased to so live and cohabit.
  9.  If you find from the evidence that de-
fendant had children by the women named
in the indictment prior to March 22d, 1882,
then the defendant had a right to visit his
children, and support them and make ar-
rangements as to their welfare. He had a
right also to assist their mothers in their
support, and for such a purpose could visit

[Column 2]
the house where they and their mothers
live. He could furnish them a home, he
could visit the mother, the same as if they
had been divorced, or as if no such previous
relations had existed between them, but he
should not associate with her as a husband
associates with his wife.

  Do we say too much if we state that
there are those now undergoing punish-
ment in the penitentiary in the society
of thieves and murderers, who would
be as free as the prosecuting officers
themselves, had the law been construed
by the legal canons applied to other
laws, and according to the instruc-
tions given above?
  The practice in these attacks upon us
has not been to presume the accused
innocent until proved guilty; but to
view him as undoubtedly guilty because
accused; and the rulings of the Court
in several instances have been made to
secure conviction where the evidence
was open to question. The extraordi-
nary ruling concerning “holding out,”
is one in point; notwithstanding the
Edmunds law sp[-]ci[-]ies that the pena[-]ty
for unlawful cohabitation, shall not be
more than six months’ imprisonment,
and three hundred dollars’ fine, the
notorious ruling from the same bench
concerning the number of indictments
which can be found against a person
accused of unlawful cohabitation,
states that he not only can be indicted
once for the whole period since the
passage of the law, but an indictment
can be found for every week of that
time; so that, if found guilty in this
manner, a man’s punishment would
aggregate an imprisonment of 92 years
and fines to the amount of $55,200.
 Still more extraordinary is the ruling
of another Judge, who, not to be out-
done in his zeal, says, that an indict-
ment can be found for this charge
against a man for every day,or other dis-
tinct interval of time since the enact-
ment of the law!  As about 1292 days have
passed since then, a man found guilty
can be incarcerated in prison for 646
years and made pay fines to the amount
of $387,600. Comment upon this ab-
surdity is unnecessary.
  Before the Edmunds bill became
law, and while on its passage, it was
claimed that its provisions were of
general application and in the interests
of morality, and not, as we asserted,
a measure directly aimed at religious
liberty and for purposes of persecu-
tion. But time has fully revealed its
true character. Stripped of all dis-
guise it stands out now in all its hide-
ousness. The most shocking immor-
ality flourishes in its presence and
thrives under the very eyes of its ad-
ministrators. All forms of vice, if not
directly encouraged by those who are
charged with the duty of administering
the Edmunds law, are at least viewed
by them with indifference. They ap-
pear to have no care as to the most
flagrant sexual crimes, if they are only
committed by non-“Mormons,”or out-
side of the pale of matrimony. “Mor-
mons” also, under the present admin-
istration of the law, may do what they
please with women, be guilty of the
foulest injustice to them and their off-
spring, if they will only disown them
as wives. The war is openly and un-
disguisedly made upon our religion.
To induce men to repudiate that, to
violate its precepts and to break its
solemn covenants, every encourage-
ment is given. The man who agrees to
discard his wife or wives,and to tram-
ple upon the most sacred obligations
which human beings can enter into,
escapes imprisonment and is ap-
plauded; while the man who will not
make this compact of dishonor, who
will not admit that his past life has
been a fraud and a lie, who will not
say to the world, “I intended to de-
ceive my God, my brethren and my
wives by making covenants I did not
expect to keep,” is, besides being pun-
ished to the full extent of the law,
compelled to endure the reproaches,
taunts and insults of a brutal judge.
  Notwithstanding all these cruelties
are practiced against us, we do not feel
that, as Latter-day Saints, we should
mourn because of them. We should
mourn because of our weaknesses

[Column 3]
follies and sins, and repent of them
But to be persecuted, to be discrimin-
ated against, to be separated from the
rest of the world, to be imprisoned and
abused are not causes of sorrow to true
Saints; they are causes of rejoicing.
If, in the great hereafter, we expect to
be admitted to the society of the Son of
God, our Redeemer, to the society
of Prophets and Apostles, and holy
men and women, ought we not to
be willing to endure the tribula-
tions which they received so joy-
fully? Where is the Prophet or
Apostle who did not endure persecu-
tion, whose liberty and life were not in
almost constant jeopardy? They did
not have an Edmunds law, perhaps,
enforced against them; but they had
laws which emanated from the same
source. With few exceptions they
were all punished, deprived of  [-]iberty
and of life, in the sacred name of law.
Even the holiest Being that ever trod
the earth, the great Redeemer of man-
kind himself, was crucified between
two thieves to satisfy Jewish law.
  There has probably never been a time
in the history of mankind when those
whom we now revere as martyrs and
whose sacrifices adorn and glorify our
humanity and lift it nearer to God,
could not, by being recreant to the
truth entrusted to them, have escaped
the fate which made them so admirable
to the generations which followed
them. The Savior himself had it in his
power to compromise with his enemies
and escape the cruel and ignominious
death inflicted upon him. Abraham
might have bowed to the gods of his
idolatrous father and needed no angel
to rescue him from his impending
doom. Daniel and his three brethren,
also, might have submitted to the de-
cree and law of the ruling powers un-
der which they lived and escaped the
fiery furnace and the den of lions.
Their refusals to obey the decree and
law doubtless appeared to those who
had not the knowledge of God which
they possessed, as acts of wicked ob-
stinancy that should be summarily
punished. But had they, to escape the
threatened penalty,obeyed these edicts,
posterity would have lost the benefit
of their example, and the great God
would not have been glorified before
their contemporaries as He was by
their acts. Instead of their names be-
ing, as now, radiant with light and re-
splendent with heroism, they would,
had they reached us, been covered with
odium and been mentioned in the same
category with the Jews concerning
whom the Prophet Jeremiah said:
“They bend their tongues like their
bow for lies;but they are not valiant for
the truth upon the earth; for they pro-
ceed from evil to evil, and they know
not me, saith the Lord.”
 Well-meaning friends of ours have
said that our refusal to renounce the
principle of celestial marriage invites
destruction. They warn us and im-
plore us to yield.  They appeal to every
human interest and adjure us to bow to
a law, which is admitted on all hands to
have  been framed expressly for the de-
struction of the principle which we are
called upon to reject. They say it is
madness to resist the will of so over-
whelming a majority. They say they
see the gathering clouds,that they hear
the premonitory mutterings of the re-
sistless tempest which is about to
break in destructive fury upon our
heads, and they call upon us to avert
its wrath by timely submission. But
they perceive not the hand of that
Being who controls all storms,whose
voice the tempest obeys, at whose [--]at
thrones and empires are thrown down
—the Almighty God, Lord of heaven
and earth, who has made promises to
us and who has never failed to fulfill all
His words.
  We did not reveal celestial marriage.
We cannot withdraw or renounce it.
God revealed it, and He has promised
to maintain it and to bless those who
obey it. Whatever fate, then, may
threaten us, there is but one course
for men of God to take, that is,to keep
inviolate the holy covenants they have
made in the presence of God and an-
gels. For the remainder, whether it

[Column 4]
be life or death, freedom or imprison-
ment, prosperity or adversity, we must
trust in God. We may say, however,
if any man or woman, expects to enter
into the celestial kingdom of our God
without making sacrifices and without
being tested to the very uttermost,they
have uot understood the Gospel.If there
is a weak spot in our nature,or if there
is a fibre that can be made to quiver or
to shrink, we may rest assured that it
will be tested. Our own weaknesses
will be brought fully to light, and in
seeking for help, the strength of our
God will also be made manifest to us.
The Latter-day Saints have been
taught this from the beginning. Such
scenes as we now witness in these
mountains and hear about in lands
where the Elders are preaching the
Gospel ought not to be a surprise to us.
The Prophets and Apostles and Elders
of this dispensation would be false
Prophets and Apostles and Elders if
these events did not take place; for
they have predicted them and warned
the people unceasingly concerning
them.
  Speaking concerning law,the Lord,in
a revelation given through the Prophet
Joseph, August 6th, 1833, says:

  4. And now, verily I say unto you con-
cerning the laws of the land, it is my will
that my people should observe to do all
things whatsoever I command them;
  5.  And that law of the land which is con-
stitutional, supporting that principle of-
freedom in maintaining rights and privi-
leges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifi-
able before me;
  6.  Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and
your brethren of my church. in befriending
that law which is the constitutional law of
the land;
  7.  And as pertaining to law of man, what-
soever is more or less than these cometh of
evil.
  8.  I, the Lord God, make you free, there-
fore ye are free indeed; and the law also
maketh you free;
  9.  Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the
people mourn.
  10.  Wherefore, honest men and wise men
should be sought for diligently, and good
men and wise men ye should observe to up-
hold; otherwise whatsoever is less than
these cometh of evil.
  11.  And I give unto you a commandment,
that ye shall forsake all evil and cleave unto
all good, that ye shall live by every word
which proceedeth forth out of the month of
God;
  12.  For he will give unto the faithful line
upon line, precept upon precept; and I will
try you and prove you herewith;
  13.  And whoso layeth down his life in my
cause, for my name’s sake, shall find it
again. even life eternal;
 14.  Therefore be not afraid of your ene-
mies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith
the Lord, that I will prove you in all things,
whether you will abide in my covenant even
unto death, that you may be found worthy;
  15.  For if ye will not abide in my cove-
nant, ye are not worthy of me.

 Fifty-two years have passed since
this was given to the Church, and we
are now witnessing its fulfilment.  The
Saints are required to do whatsoever
the Lord commands them, to live by
every word which proeeedeth forth out
of the mouth of God. They are also
instructed to befriend every constitu-
tional law of the land; for such laws
support the principle of freedom; they
maintain rights and privileges This,
as a people, we have striven to do from
the beginning of our organization. We
have ever been a law-abiding people.
Times without number we have suf-
fered the most grievous wrongs with-
out resenting them. We have ever
thought it better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.
  Such was the case when we suffered
expatriation from the State of Mis-
souri. We were robbed and pillaged,
despoiled and persecuted, yet we had
no idea of retaliating on account of
these wrongs upon the government
and its institutions, which to us are
sacred. The same loyal spirit animated
us when we were beset by blood-
thirsty mobs in Illinois, one of which
murdered Joseph Smith, our Prophet,
and Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, while
they were under the pledged protection
of the State, given through the gov-
ernor. On the same occasion one of
the signers of this address was also
brought to the gate of death, by being


shot by the same band of assassins.
When driven from the homes we had
established in Illinois, we had no
disposition to hold the nation
at large nor the government
of our beloved country responsible for
those inhuman deeds, nor to allow the
spirit of vengeance to rankle in our
hearts. We took the first opportunity
to exhibit the spirit of true patriotism.
While undergoing great hardship on
account of being subjected to a com-
pulsory exodus, when called upon by
the government to furnish a body of
men to take part in the war with 
Mexico, 500 of the flower of our camp
responded with alacrity, and in ac-
cordance with the call of our country,
traversed the great American desert,
penetrated to Mexico, and com-
pleted an arduous and hazardous
campaign, and journey to California.
   You have no doubt read, through the
papers, an account of the terrible af-
fair which recently occurred at Rock
Springs, in Wyoming Territory. We
could not help feeling a little anxiety
lest some of our people should have
been connected with that bloody riot,
and immediately requested Brother
Cluff, President of Summit Stake, to
inquire into the matter. So far as we
have obtained information to the pres-
ent, however, we find that not more
than one has been in any way mixed up
with that matter, and he a person of
doubtful standing. We are pleased to
learn of this, because we cannot as-
sociate with any deeds so revolting
and inhuman, and we take this oppor-
tunity to express our opinion on this
subject to the Saints. A great number
of secret societies are being formed
with which we cannot affiliate. Such 
organizations are generally inimical to
law, to good order, and in many in-
stances subversive of the rights of
man. We cannot amalgamate with
them. They are very distinctly spoken
against in the Book of Mormon, as
among the calamities which should af-
flict the people.
   We are expressly commanded, and it
becomes our duty, to uphold and sus-
tain every law of the land which is con-
stitutional; we have always had a strong
desire to obey such laws, and to place
ourselves in harmony with all the in-
stitutions of the country.
   We repeat that we desire that all
men should be aware of the fact that
we have been the upholders of the
Constitution and laws enacted in pur-
suance of that sacred instrument.
We still entertain the same patriotic
disposition, and propose to continue
acting in conformity with with it to the last.
Neither have we any desire to come in
active conflict even with statures that
we deem opposed to the Constitution 
both in letter and spirit. Whatever
opposition has been offered in that line
has been only of such a character as
is justified by the usages and cus-
toms of this and all other civilized 
countries, and such as the laws and in-
stitutions of this nation provide. Nor
have we the least desire to shun the
consequences of our acts in their rela-
tionship to the laws to which we refer,
providing there were any assurance
that our cases would be submitted to a
fair and just adjudication. Events of
the past few months give no ground
for hope that such treatment
would be accorded. It must be con-
tended, however, that, as stated else-
where, connected with this disposition
to have our conduct passed upon as
provided by law administered in the
genius of justice, there never can be
any hope of our yielding up, under any
circumstances, a principle of consci-
entious or religious conviction. Were
we to make such a surrender our con-
duct in that respect would not be in
harmony with the guaranties of the
Constitution, which we are in duty
bound to uphold.
   In order to place our people at a dis-
advantage, and to crush out their re-
ligious system, the Constitution has
been violated in a number of ways. It
does not require any depth of legal
learning to understand what is meant
by a religious test, which is forbidden
by the "supreme law of the land."
Yet laws have been passed applicable
to a wide section of this northwestern 
country, disfranchising and inflicting
total political disability upon our peo-
ple, without regard to their acts. The
offense for which this restriction has
been prescribed is simply religious be-
lief, and the means of application is a
religious test. It is consequently un-
constitutional upon its face. This and
other laws--notably the Edmunds act--
inflict disabilities upon those of our 
people who are not in any way asso-
ciated, by their acts, with polygamy.
Thus probably about nine-tenths
of our community are punished
for alleged offenses for which
they are in no way responsible,
and in which they have taken no part. 
Surely no person who is unbiased, that
gives this subject even the most casual
attention can characterize such treat-
ment as other than flagrantly unjust.
   It has been estimated that out of a
community of about 200,000 people, 
more or less, from 10,000 to 12,000 are 
identified with polygamy. When the
Edmunds act was passed this small
minority who were deprived by it of
the right to vote or hold office, volun-
tarily, without the application of
coercion, withdrew from those priv-
ileges, notwithstanding the high esti-
mate they placed upon them. It may
well be asked wherein is the justice of
placing the bulk of the people at a dis-
advantage as well, seeing they have
done nothing to furnish an excuse for
such treatment? Granting that the
small minority connected with polyg-
amy are criminals before the law,
what justification is there, on that ac-
count, for punishing, as the Edmunds 
and other acts do, the overwhelming
majority? If such doings were per-
petrated in any other connection they
would be unsparingly denounced as
oppressive and tyrannical in the most
extreme degree. If one portion of a
community are designated as criminal,
to hold the other and much the greaterportion responsible for such a condi-
tion is not only unjust, but decidedly 
absurd.
   Statements upon this subject have
been made to the Chief Executive of
the nation, in the form of a protest and
petition for redress of grievances.
Knowing that misrepresentations have
taken the place of impartial scrutiny
of the question with which the Latter-
day Saints are associated, the conse-
quences being a general misapprehen-
sion of the community and their af-
fairs, we presumed that Mr. Cleveland
was not acquainted with the real situa-
tion. An opportunity was thus sought
to acquaint him with the facts. The
very reasonable desire was expressed
in this connection that a commission
of inquiry be appointed, that the truth
might appear and be given to the na-
tion. Was it too much to expect that
this action, supported by a represen-
tation of 200,000 people, would meet
with some favorable response, which
thus far has not, however, been made?
Yet it would be unfair to attribute the
delay of the President either to indif-
ference or a disposition to refuse to
accord justice to a people whose liber-
ties are being trampled upon to an ex-
tent that is almost past human endur-
ance. It is still hoped that he will
take some consistent and humane
action in the premises. In alluding to
the delay in granting a response to the
representations made to the President,
we must not forget the extensive and
arduous character of the duties de-
volving upon him, as the head of the
administration of a great government.
We mention this that you may not be
disposed to be too censorious in re-
gard to the actions of men in high
places who have the power to redress
our grievances. And even when we
feel that we are wronged, it is proper
for us to follow the example of our
Lord and Master, and say: "Father,
forgive them, they know not what they
do."
   Referring once more to the situation
in a more local sense, we are not obli-
vious to the anomalous position in
which the Federal judicial officers are
placed in dealing with a subject which
appears to occupy a large share of
popular attention. While it is impos-
sible for them to escape pro-
nounced exceptions being taken to
their official course, on account
of its harshness, undue rigor, and
unjust discrimination in adminis-
tering the laws, they are entitled to
some consideration, justified by well
understood circumstances. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are the objects of popu-
lar obloquy. Their institutions appear
to be greatly disliked. The officers are
doubtless influenced by the general
clamor for the application of heroic
treatment to the Saints. They them-
selves have doubtless been influenced 
to some degree by personal prejudices,
and their official conduct, by these con-
ditions, is thrown out of balance.
While their course cannot be sustained
in the light of tfair play, some allowance
should be made on account of the lia-
bility of the human mind to be warped
by influences in conflict with the prin-
ciples which should universally obtain
in courts of law and presumed justice.
Neither would it be justifiable on the
part of the Saints to entertain toward
them, on account of their departures
from their proper line of duty any ran-
corous or vengeful feeling. A spirit
of that character is not in unity with
the genius of the Gospel of peace. All
men are in the hands of a just God,
whose mighty, penetrating power is
capable of analyzing all the motives
which prompt human action, and He
can and will deal with us and them and
all men according to the principles of
eternal justice.
   Upwards of forty years ago the Lord
revealed to His Church the principle of
celestial marriage. The idea of marry-
ing more wives than one was as 
naturally abhorent to the leading men 
and women of the Church at that day
as it could be to any people. They
 shrank with dread from the bare
thought of entering into such relation-
ships. But the command of God was
before them in lagnuage which no faith-
ful soul dare disobey.
   "For, behold, I reveal unto you a
new and an everlasting covenant; and
if ye abide not that covenant, then are
ye damned; for no one can reject this
convenant, and be permitted to enter
into my glory.*	*	*	*	*	*
And as pertaining to the new and ever-
lasting covenant, it was instituted for
the fulness of my glory; and he that
receiveth a fulness thereof, must and
shall abide the law, or he shall be
damned, saith the Lord God."
   Damnation was the awful penalty
affixed to a refusal to obey this law.
It became an acknowledged doctrine
of the Church; it was indissolubly in-
terwoven in the minds of its members
with their hopes of eternal salvation
and exaltation in the presence of God.
For nearly twenty years this continued
to be our faith and practice. Then a
law was enacted against it. Another
twenty years elapsed, and the Ed-
munds law was passed. Nearly forty
years had thus elapsed from the first
revelation of this doctrine, during
which period thousands had lived and
died, firmly believing and solemnly
testifying that it was divine. At great
sacrifice they had obeyed it, and based
their hopes of eternal felicity upon the
promises which the revelation con-
tained. They never dreamed that they
had not a constitutional right to obey
God, especially when in obeying Him
they did not interfere with nor en-
croach upon the rights of any human
being, either man or woman. It never
entered into their minds to suppose for
a moment that man had a right, after
God had given a law to His Church for
its salvation and exaltation, to enact a
counter law forbidding, under severe
penalties, man's obedience to God's 
law. Who could suppose that any
man, in this land of religious liberty,
would presume to say to his fellow-
man that he had no right to take such
steps as he thought necessary to escape
damnation! Or that Congress would
enact a law which would present the
alternative to religious believers of
being consigned to a penitentiary if
they should attempt to obey a law of
God which would deliver them from
damnation! Or that, under a plea of
maintaining a certain form of civiliza-
tion, God's authority to direct His
people how to escape from the abomi-
nable corruptions and evils which are
eating out the vitals of man's much
vaunted civilization, should be dis-
puted and utterly rejected! What is
this "Mormon" problem, so-called, 
and why should it disturb the people?
It is an unpopular religion. But so
was that of the ancient Prophets.
Jesus told the Jews that they garnished 
the tombs of the dead Prophets; but
killed the living ones. They crucified
Jesus and were almost as unanimous 
in their cry to crucify Him, as the peo-
ple and rulers of the United States are
to-day to destroy the "Mormons."
They killed all of His Apostles except
one, and he was banished to work as a
slave on the Isle of Patmos. It is said
they cast him into a caldron of boiling
oil, but he was not killed; and if the
Scriptures are true, he still lives, for
he was to tarry till the coming of the 
Savior. We receive as the word of
God, and so do millions of the human
family, the writings and testimony of
the Prophets who were killed. It is
published by the millions of copies
and sent to the various nations of the
earth, by the very people who would
now seek to destroy us. Jesus, who
was crucified between two thieves, is
now worshiped by millions in Chris-
tendom as the Son of God, the Re-
deemer of the world. The Twelve
Apostles, his disciples, who suffered
such ignominious contumely and deah,
are now designated by the millions of 
Christendom as "The Apostles of the 
Lamb of God," and churches and
cathedrals are called after them, as St.
Peter, St. John, St. Mark, St. Luke,
etc.  It was then the "Christian  prob-
lem"--the same problem though called
by a different name. Was Jesus the
enemy of the people in His day? Only 
as He told them the truth.  "What
evil hath He done?" asked Pilate, the
Gentile Judge. No matter what evil
or what good, vociferated the Jews:
"Crucify him! crucify him!"  What
evil have the "Mormons" done? is
asked, and the cry comes back: No mat-
ter, no matter, let them be destroyed.
   By the circulation of endless slanders
and falsehoods concerning us and our
marriages, wrath and indignation have
been aroused against us in our nation.
The ignorance of the people concern-
ing us and our doctrines and system
have been taken advantage of. Con-
stant attempts have been, and still are
being made to induce the world to be-
lieve that our motive in espousing
patriarchal marriage has been the
gratification of gross sensuality--that
our belief in and practice of the doc-
trine had its origin in licentiousness,
and that the sanction of religion is mere-
ly invoked to furnish greater license for
the indulgence of base passions and
devouring lust. This, as you know, is
the exact antipodes of the truth. But
the world generally do not know it.
Those of them who know how utterly
false are these charges are either so
cowed down by a fierce public opinion
that they dare not speak, or if they 
have the courage to speak are almost
unheard amid the noisy clamor against
us. Thousands upon thousands of
honest people in this and other na-
tions, whose voices, did they know the
truth, would be raised in our favor,
are deceived by these lies and are ar-
rayed against us. This persecution, if
it serve no other purpose, will do
good in this direction. It brings home
to the hearts of the people, as no pro-
testations or arguments of ours ever
could do,  that there is something more
in this doctrine and practice than they
have been led to believe. Reflecting
people will see that there must be a
great principle involved in this, or men
and women would not be willing to
suffer fines, bonds and imprisonment
as they do.
   Is there any necessity for lustful
men and women in this age and nation
to suffer martyrdom to gratify their
passions? Whoever heard of a people
preferring imprisonment and all man-
ner of cruel treatment for the indulg-
ence of appetites which they could
gratify to the fullest extent in popular
ways, especially when the judges upon
the bench, the prosecuting attorneys
at the bar, the juries who bring in
verdicts, point out the way in which
marriage obligations can be discarded
and sensuality be gratified without
risk or without punishment? The
press and sectarian pulpits also echo
the advice. The universal voice is:
Put away your wives, cease to support
them and their children; be as we are,
and you need not be put under bonds,
be fined or be incarcerated in prison."
   Foul desire opens wide her arms and
invites all to her lecherous embrace by
easier paths than honorable marriageand the begetting of numerous chil-
dren to be carefully trained and edu-
cated and made respectable and use-
ful citizens.
   Will the world see this? Every man
who goes to prison for his religion,
every woman who, for love of truth
and the husband to whom she is bound
for time and eternity, submits to bonds
and imprisonment, bears a powerful
testimony to the world concerning the
falsity of the views they entertain res-
pecting us and our religion. If such
noble and heroic sacrifices as men
and women are now called upon to
make for their religion by Federal
Courts do not teach the world the
truth concerning us, then woe to the
world, for nothing but the wrath of
Almighty God will reach it.
   We join with all Saints in invoking
blessings upon the noble men and
women who have exhibited their in-
tegrity to God and His cause, and their
devotion to principle by submitting to
bonds and imprisonment rather than
deny their faith or break their cove-
nants. If anything were needed to
show to the world that our marriages
cannot be reduced to the level of the
vile practices to which our defamers
would drag them down, their heroic


conduct has furnished it. Thank God
that, so far in this persecution, at least
as large a proportion have stood the
test, without flinching or cowering, as
Jesus in His parable of the ten virgins,
intimidated would be ready to meet the
Bridegroom at His coming. Their
names will be held in everlasting
honor in time and eternity, not only as
martyrs for religious truth, but as
patriots who suffered in defense of the
principle of religious liberty.
	Truths, such as God has revealed in
these days, are not established without
suffering and sacrifice on the part of
those who espouse and advocate them.
It was for these truths that we were
driven time and again from our homes,
and were finally compelled to seek ref-
uge in this mountain country, then
known as the American desert. And
now again we are menaced with ruin;
and for what? Whom have we injured?
Upon whose rights have we trespassed?
It can be truthfully said we have not
injured or trespassed upon any. Have
we not, under the blessing of the Lord,
changed these barren valleys into
fruitful fields and gardens? Have we
not established and maintained good
and cheap government in every place
which we have settled? Has not every
man who came into our borders and
behaved himself been safe in his prop-
perty, person and religion? Have not
peace and good order been the fruits of
our presence? To all these we can an-
swer in the affirmative. Have we en-
deavored to force our doctrines or
practices upon any one? Have we in
any manner threatened the peace of our
neighbors or of the nation? We cer-
tainly have not.
	Respecting the doctrine of celestial
marriage, we could not, however much
we might be disposed to do so, teach it
to or enforce it upon, others not of our
[-]aith, without violating a command of
God. We do not stand in the attitude
of propagandists of polygamy. We
never have believed or taught that the
doctrine of celestial marriage was de-
signed for universal practice. The
Lord has made this clear, and recent
events among us have also made it
clear. "Strait is the gate," says Je-
sus, "and narrow the way that leadeth
unto  exaltation and continuation of
the lives, and few there be that find it."
	There appears to be a fallacious idea
abroad regarding this doctrine. It
has been asserted that there was
a design to propagate it outside
of our community, and thus in-
troduce into the United States an
element opposed to the Christian
views of this and other nations. On
the contrary, our Elders have been in-
structed not to introduce the practise
of that principle any where outside of
the gathering place of the Saints; and
they do not preach it abroad to any
extent even in theory, except on occa-
sions when it is called for, or when
they are assailed on account of it. At
such times they respond by defending
it as a doctrine of the Bible and not in-
consistent with the laws of nature. It
should also be understood that the
practice is not generally admissible
even among the Latter-day Saints. It
is strictly guarded, the intention being
to allow only those who are above re-
proach to enter into the relationship.
The practice of the doctrine is not for
extension beyond the Church, and is
even limited within its pale[-] The idea,
therefore that the plural marriage is a men-
ace to the general monogamous sys-
tem is without foundation. This fallacy
is further exhibited by the fact of the
popular antipathy with which it is re-
garded, people outside of our C[-]urch
exhibiting a dosposition the reverse of
favorable to its establishment in other
communities, making the extension of
its practice abroad impossible. Fur-
thermore, being strict believers in free-
will; you Latter-day Saints know that
no man or woman has ever been co-
erced into obligations of that kind,
much less would we desire to enforce
it upon any other class of people.
	But in all these events which are
now taking place we recognize and ac-
knowledge the hand of God. There is a
wise purpose in it all which He will
yet more fully make plain to us. One
thing is clear, the Saints are being tried
in a manner never before known
among us. The faithful rejoice and
are steadfast; the unfaithful fear and
tremble. Those who have oil in their
lamps and have kept them trimmed
and burning now have a light for their
feet and they do not stumble or fall;
those who have neither light nor oil are
in perplexity and doubt; they know
not what to do. Is not this the fulfil-
ment of the word of God and the teach-
ings of His servants? Have not the
[Column 2]
Latter-day Saints been taught all the
day long that if they would remain
faithful and endure to the end, they
must live their religion by keeping
every commandment of God? Have
they not been continually warned of
the fate which awaited them if they
committed sin? Can adulterers, for-
nicators, liars, thieves, drunkards,
Sabbath-breakers, blashpemers, or
sinners of any kind endure the
trials which Saints must pass
through and expect to stand?
If there are any who enter-
tain such a hope, they deceive them-
selves. Upon these sins God has pro-
nounced judgement. No man or woman
who is guilty of any of these trans-
gressions of God's law can stand and
retain His Spirit. They must repent
of them and put them far from them,
or they will be left in darkness, and
misery will be their doom. The Lord
will not be mocked. He will not bear
with hypocrites; but they will be
spewed out. If all who call themselves
Latter-day Saints were true and faith-
ful to their God, to His holy covenants
and laws, and were living as Saints
should, persecution would roll off
from us without disturbing us in the
least. But it is painful to know that
this is not their condition. There are
secret abominations practiced by those
who are called Saints, which the trials
we are now passing through will reveal
in a manner terrible to them. Open
sins are also winked at and condoned
by Presidents, Bishops, Teachers and
parents in a manner offensive to God
and grievous to man. Proper care and
vigilance are not exercised to keep
Wards and Stakes cleansed from in-
iquity and to have transgressors dealt
with. The innocent are thus made to
suffer with the guilty; for the Lord has
commanded that the inhabitants of
Zion must purge themselves from in-
iquity, folly, covetousness and vanity,
and listen to and obey His laws, or they
cannot have His protection. He has
also said that if His people will obey
His laws and keep His commandments,
to do them, not in name only, but in
reality, He will be their shield and pro-
tector and strong tower, and no man
will be able to hurt them, for He will
be their defense. These trials of our
faith and constancy which we are now
passing through will be overruled for
our good and future prosperity. In
days to come we shall be able to look
back and percieve with clearness how
visibly God's providence is in all that
we now witness. Let us do all in our
power to so live before the Lord that
if we are persecuted, it shall not be for
wrong doing, but for righteousness.
	At the present time we may very
pertinently inquire: Why are the peo-
ple of these mountains treated as we
now are? Where in this broad land is
the virture of women so amply guarded
or so jealously protected as here? No
cry of hungry, naked or outraged hu-
manity has ever ascended to heaven
from our borders against the men whom
the courts are now so busy in sending
to prison and treating as criminals.
There was a time in these mountains
when adultery, fornication, whoredom
and illegitimacy were almost unknown.
A woman was as safe from insult in
traversing over our streets and high-
ways as if she were under her hus-
band's or father's roof. Marriage was
encouraged, vice was repressed. Wo-
men were free to form  connections
were sanctified by marriage. But what
a change we now behold! A tide of
evil surges around us. It threatens to
overwhelm us and to reduce us to ruin.
The flood-gates of vice are opened
upon us, and not content with the rush
of this filthy stream into our cities and
settlements, those who hate us would
do more. They would invade our
dwellings; they would destroy our
families; they would loosen every
bond which has held society together;
they would array wife against husband,
child against parent, friend against
friend; they would make every man,
woman and child a spy, an informer
and a betrayer; they would sap the
foundation of faith, confidence and
honor and make every one distrust his
fellow. Satan never wrought greater
ruin in Eden than these enemies of ours
would work in our midst if we would
listen to their blandishments or be
frightened by their threats. And is all
this havoc to be wrought beaause of
our wickedness? No; ten thousand
times, NO. Let those  are so loud
in denouncing us, so active in perse-
cuting us, look around them. Are
there no people but the "Mormons' to
regenerate and purge from sin? Read
[Column 3]
the daily record of black crime which
fills the journals of the land. If the
correction of evil, the improvement of
morals, the uprooting of vice, the re-
pression of violence and crime were
the objects which animate those who
seek to destroy society in these moun-
tains, then we could say in the language
of the Savior: "Thou thyself behold-
est not the beam that is in thine own
eye. Thou hypocrite, first  cast out the
mote out of thy brother's eye."
	We speak to you, a people who have
traveled and mingled much in society
all over the world. You are not ig-
norant of the world, its ways or its
corruptions. You know, therefore,
how great is the beam that is in the
eyes of those who reprove us for the
mote they imagine they perceive in our
eye. We know that from the household
of every faithful Latter-day Saint daily
and fervent thanksgiving ascends to the
God of heaven for having shown them
how to escape from the frightful evils
under which society groans in so-called
civilized lands. Nevertheless, we will
not indulge in recrimination. We sin-
cerely mourn over the existence of the
dreadful sins which are permitted to
flourish and to spread with unblushing
front through the land. As a people
we have lifted our voices in warning
against these sins and against those
who practice them. We shall still con-
tinue to do so. If in return for all this
we are treated with violence and re-
proach, it is no more than our Lord and
Master was before us. We may rest
assured that the predictions concerning
the calamities and judgements which are
about to fall upon the wicked the un-
believing and the unrepentant will all
be fulfilled, as will every word and
promise which the Lord has spoken to
us. But while we warn others, let us
not forget ourselves, or our families.
Let us look well to our own lives and
the conduct and lives of those who be-
long to our households. If we keep
ourselves unspotted from sin. rest as-
sured the Lord will never forget or
forsake us.
	Upon Presidents of Stakes, Bishops
and otherleading officers great respon-
sibility rests. They are placed as
shepherds over the flock of Christ. If
through any neglect of theirs the flock
is injured or destroyed, the blood of
those souls will be found upon their
garments. The Melchizedek and Aaron-
ic Priesthoods confer great power and
authority upon man; they lift man
nearer to God and make him His repre-
sentative. But woe to the men who
use their Priesthood or base purposes,
and fail to use it for God's glory and
the salvation to His children. Far
better for them if they had never re-
ceived it.
	We have been commanded of the
Lord to set our households in order.
Apostles, Presidents of Stakes and
Bishops, have you done this with your
own households? Have you also seen
that the Saints have done the same?
Have you impressed upon the people
under your charge the absolute neces-
sity of purity if they desire the blessing
and protection of the Most High?
Wolves never watched with greater
cunning and more ravenous hunger a
flock of sheep and lambs than the people
of your Wards and Stakes are now be-
ing watched by those who are ready to
devour them. Are you awake to this
danger, and do you take every precau-
tion against it?
	Parents, are you full of fidelity
yourselves to every principle of god-
liness, and do you surround your sons
and daughters with every safeguard to
shield them from the arts of the vile?
Do you teach them that chastity in
both man and woman should be more
highly esteemed than life itself? Or do
you leave them in their ignorance and
inexperience to mix with any society
they may choose, at any hour that may
be convenient to them, and to be ex-
posed to the wiles of the seducer and
the corrupt? These are questions you
will all have to answer either to your
shame and condemnation or to your
joy and eternal happiness. Know this,
that God, in giving us the precious
blessings we possess, demands from
us a suitable return. By receiving
them we are placed under obligations.
If these are not discharged, condemna-
tion inevitably follows.
	We hear favorable accounts of the
action of Primary Associations, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young
Women's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations and Relief Societies. These
organizations have unlimited opportu-
nities of doing good. If those who
have them in charge are faithful in at-
[Column 4]
tending to their duties great will be
their reward. If we desire the pros-
perity of Zion, we will carefully gurad
and train our young. They come to
us pure and from the Lord. By proper
training we can make them mighty in-
struments for good. But, Superin-
tendents and Teachers of Primary As-
sociations and Sunday Schools, and
Presidents of Young Men and Young
Women's Associations and Relief So-
cieties, remember this, that God will
never bless an unvirtuous people, and
while a flood tide of corruption, de-
structive of all true morality and vir-
tue, is sweeping over the land, we
must erect barriers to stop its con-
taminating influence. You have the
young in your charge. Teach and im-
press upon them by every means in
your power how dreadful a sin is un-
chastity. they are taught to shrink
in horror from murder; but they
should be taught to shrink with ab-
horrence from the next great sin to
shedding blood, and that is unchastity.
	From the Elders who are abroad in
our own and in other lands we hear
generally favorable reports. They have
much to contend with. The world is
waxing worse and worse. Iniquity
abounds. Men's hearts are hardened
against the truth, and the nations are
fast being prepared for the judgements
which the Lord has said He will pour
out in the last days. The Elders are
required to carry the message which
God has sent to mankind to every na-
tion and to warn them, not in anger or
in scorn, but in meekness and humil-
ity, that they may flee from the wrath
to come. To them we say, Be pure in
all your thoughts, words and acts.
Keep yourselves unspotted from every
evil. Avoid all vulgarity of act and
expression. Put away all your light
speeches, and be sober men of God,
filled with the Holy Ghost and the
power of your Priesthood.
	To the Twelve Apostles and their
Counselors we say: Remember the
weight of your high calling in Christ
Jesus. You are called to be His
special witnesses in all the world, to
bear testimony that He lives and
reigns on high, to see that the Gospel
is preached to all the inhabitants of the
earth, and that the earth is prepared
bu suitable warning for the coming of
the Son of Man. How great and all-
important is your calling. It may be
said that the souls of a world are en-
trusted to you. Through your labors
and testimony, either in person or
through other chosen messengers
whose labors you direct, the inhabi-
tants of the earth will be judged. Is
there any law of God, then, which you
should neglect, is there any degree of
purity which you should not reach, is
there any sacrifice which you should
not be willing to make? Can men
with such a calling as yours be other
than holy and yet please our God?
Who among you can neglect the duties
of your high calling to devote time and
care to the world and its pursuits?
We say to you in all truth and solemni-
ty that no one of you can do this with-
out displeasing your God and endan-
gering your salvation.
	To the Saints we say that President
Woodruff, at our last accounts, was in
good health and spirits notwithstang-
ing his advanced age, and as full of
zeal and faith as ever.
	President Joseph F. Smith, our fel-
low laborer in the First Presidency,
though not with us, is actively em-
ployed in the ministry and rejoicing
greatly in the work of God. He is as
ardent, as devoted and as persever-
ing as ever. Were he here, his name,
without doubt, would appear with
ours to this epistle.
	Notwithstanding all that we are now
passing through, our hearts are filled
with joy and peace. We can truly say,
Hosannah to God in the highest. We
know that Zion will not be overthrown
o[-] be made desolate. Every promise
made concerning Zion by the Almighty
will be fulfilled. The only thing which
ever disturbs our serenity is the report
of wrong-doing by those who are called
Latter-day Saints.
	Praying that God will bless and pre-
serve you and lead you in the path of
righteousness, and that you may all
operate together in the accomplish-
ment of the purposes  of God and the
purification of His Church and the es-
tablishment of His Kingdom, we re-
main, with much love,
	Your friends and fellow-laborers in
the New and Everlasting Covenant,
		JOHN TAYLOR,
		GEORGE Q CANNON
Of the First Presidency of the Church of
	Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Salt Lake City, October 6th, 1885.


