HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.

	Cheese Biscuit.—Two ounces of butter, two ounces of
grated cheese, two ounces of flour, a little cayenne pepper,
and salt. The paste should be rolled out very thin, then
cut into pieces four inches long and one inch broad, baked
to a very light brown, and sent to the table as hot as
possible.

	Sweet Pickles.—Prepare the fruit as for preserving, tak-
ing out the stones. For seven pounds of fruit use half
that weight of clear brown sugar, a pint of vinegar, and an
ounce each of cinnamon stick, blades of mace, and whole
cloves. Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices, and pour this
liquid over the fruit. Allow it to stand for forty-eight
hours. Pour off the vinegar and place it over the fire again.
When hot, put in the fruit, and boil all together until it is
clear and transparent.

	Tomato Chow-Chow.—Chop up half a bushel of green
tomatoes, a dozen onions, and half a dozen green peppers.
Sprinkle on a pint of salt, and let them stand twelve hours
before draining. Cover the fruit with vinegar, and boil it
slowly for one hour. Drain off the vinegar and pack the
pickles in jars. Then take two pounds of sugar, two table-
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of cloves, one
of pepper, half a cupful of mustard, one pint of grated
horse radish, and vinegar enough to mix them. When
boiling hot, pour the liquid into the jars, cover them tightly
and you will have pickles that will last as long as you
wish.
	According to an exchange, dry powdered salt will keep
moths out of carpets. The salt should be sprinkled freely
over the carpet, particularly along the edges, followed by a
thorough sweeping. This should be done about once a
month in moth time, and there will be no trouble from the
destructive insect.	
	To take grass stains and wheel grease stains from colored
as well as white materials, rub a little clean lard on the
spots, and let it remain over night. In the morning, wash
the spots with cold water and common soap, rinse well and
dry them quickly, and press the garments with a hot iron.
If the color is likely to change by using soap, then use
naphtha or alcohol instead, and water.


