		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Having, through the providences of God, been called
to part with Sister Rachel Ann Tnomas,
	We, the officers and members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do
sympathize with Bro. Benjamin L. Thomas and family in
their loss.
	Resolved, That in all the sorrows and bereavements of
life, in parting with our dear sister, that we strive to follow
her noble example, and fill our mission here, that we may
be worthy to meet her when we are called to pass away.
	Resolved, That we place these Resolutions of Respect
on our record, and send a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication.					ANNE SAWYER.

	It is our mournful duty to record the demise of our be-
loved sister, Mary Stark, daughter of Andrew and Inger
Mineer. She was born on the 8th of December, 1838, in
Landskrona, Sweden; was married to Paul Stark 1859.
Embraced the Gospel the same year. Emigrated to
America 1860; arrived in Utah 1861, and finally settled in
Brigham City, Box Elder Co., 1866.
	She was a loving wife and mother, a faithful, zealous
Latter-day Saint. She obeyed and practiced the law of
the new and everlasting covenant, and leaves a record of
energy and unselfish devotion to her religion and family
that will ever be held in loving remembrance by all who
knew her. She was the mother of twelve children, of
whom five have gone before her.
	She was a woman possessed with rare abilites of practi-
cal usefulness and perseverance in well doing. She began
her public career in the year 1877, as a teacher of the
Relief Society, which office she held until the reorganiza-
tion of said society—the 13th of March, 1878—when she
was called and set apart as President for the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City; also on the same day
as Second Counselor to the Stake President, Harriet Snow.
	She was appointed President of the Silk Association, in
which, by precept and example, she took an active part.
The following year she was called to act as President of the
Scandinavian Relief Socity. 
	All these positions she filled with honor and integrity, 
and in the whole of her long and useful career—from the
time she embraced the Gospel till the day of her death—
she was ever found, in word and deed, a faithful and a
wise counselor. She was truly one of the leading spirits
in the hive of Deseret, and will be greatly missed by her
husband, children, and all with whom she was associated.

