EDITOR EXPONENT:
  Your paper is a welcome visitor, and a great
many express a desire to take it, could the
means be obtained to pay for it, but this is the
great trouble with the most of those who de-
sire to take it. We are still hoping against
hope that times will change, but Dame Fortune
is very fickle, and does not come at every beck
and call. I do not think that money could be
spent in a better cause than in securing such
publications, that serve to strenthen and en-
courage us in the onward, upward path, which
it is our duty to follow; such I claim this
paper to be, and I never take it up in my hands
for perusal but I feel that the spirit of inspira-
tion has dictate its contents, and I feel to press
onward with renewed strength, and a determina-


tion to strive to prove myself worthy of a name
and a place in the midst of the Saints of God,
and to associate with those noble-sisters who
are working to carry out those principles of
our faith that will tend to unite and bind to-
gether, instead of rending asunder.
   It is indeed a time of trial to the Saints of
God, and it will serve to test every person who
has a name or a standing in the midst of the
Saints, and prove what kind of material they
are composed of, whether it is gold or dross.
Such men as Angus M. Cannon, A. Milton
Musser, H. B. Clawson, with a number of
others, who have the nobility and manliness
to stand up in court and proudly defend that
glorious principle of our faith, which, is most
sacred to us (a revelation from the Most High
God) and choose rather to suffer bonds and
imprisonment than to renounce it, are the pure
gold, without any alloy, and my heart says,
“God bless them and their families with every
blessing pertaining to this mortal life, and a
glorious eternity hereafter.”
	Four of our brethren have returned from
"Yuma, where they served a term of three
months and fine; the two remaining brethren,
Bro. George Wilson and Spillsbury, are ex-
pected home to-morrow, they serving six
months.  Many more are wandering as exiles
from their homes and families; and when will
this all end?  Not until the Church of God is
purified, when all who can be sifted will be,
and none will be left but the pure in heart.
May God grant that you and I may be of that
number.
   Pardon me for thus intruding upon your
time with such a lengthy letter; when I seated
myself it was merely with the intention of
giving notice of the money, but my pen kept
running in spite of me.  We are enjoying de-
lightful weather now the hot, melting season is
over with, and we certainly appreciate it.  Good
health prevails.  Francelle and family are well,
also Irene’s.
	Hoping these few lines will find your self and
family enjoying the same blessing, I remain, as
ever,		Your friend,
