		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The office of the Woman's Exponent was re-
moved from the Hooper and Eldredge Block on
September 30th, and is now situated at No. 25 E.,
South Temple Street, second gate from Deseret
News Office.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson was sentenced and
went to prison on Tuesday, September 29th, and
Elder John Nicholson on the 13th of October, for
living with, and acknowledging their wives. Both
these brethren expressed  very decided views in
regard to their belief and convictions,and, like the
two Bro. Browns, of Ogden, have left on record
a testimony that will stand forever, and that all
Israel will honor them for, as well as all men and
women who are governed by principle, however
they may differ in religious views and practices.
	SISTER AURELIA S. ROGERS called to ask that
the item in relation to the first organization of
the Primary, as published in the Dialogue by Sis-
ter L. K. Young, be corrected, as the Primary at
Farmington was the first one ever organized, the
organization being effected on the 11th of August,
1878, and three meetings were held previous to
the organization in the 11th Ward of this city.
We make this correction in order that the facts
may be known, and not a false impression given.
We published the article as it was written, without
making any alterations.
	THE title of the poem inscribed to Bro. Nichol-
son, and published in this issue, were the words
emphatically used by him in speaking in
the 18th Ward Chapel, on Sunday evening, pre-
vious to his being sentenced. They were decided-
ly appropriate, and uttered with intense power; they
seemed to impress forcibly all assembled, and it
is not strange that these words should be sugges-
tive to a poet and a writer, and especially to one
so warmly interested in his welfare, and the princi-
ples involved, as young Bishop Whitney.
	Bro. C. E. JOHNSON'S "Valley Tan Remedies"
are becoming more popular as they are better
known and brought into use. The Essence of
Life we have heard highly recommended, also the
pills and troches. We are always glad to see a
spirit of enterprise among our young people
turned in the direction of home manufacture, and
it is much safer to take medicines prepared by our
own people, than to buy so many patent medicines
from abroad. We believe the Canker Syrup to be
a good preventive against diphtheria, and it
would be well if children were given this canker
medicine, or some other, occassionally, to keep it
from the system.
	SISTER SARAH STROCK of this city is
agent for the Acme Electric Belt, a new
and novel invention, which cures by elec-
tricity, containing a sort of galvanic battery.
She is introducing it throughout the several wards
of the city, and meeting with excellent success.
Those who have tried it, some of them having
suffered from a complication of causes, are well
satisfied with its beneficial effects, and if it proves
to be a relief to some of the ills that flesh is heir
to, it will be a blessing; and there is no nauseous
medicine to be taken, and the simplicity of its
arrangement is in itself a recommendation. Sister
Strock has taken hold of it with a motive to do
good, and intends to travel in the country settle-
ments. She is a faithful member of the Relief
Society, and has been for many years a teacher in
the 17th Ward of this city.
	On Monday morning Elder A. M. Musser and
James Watson, who had each been serving out a
sentence in the Penitentiary for "unlawful co-
habitation," were released from imprisonment,
their time being lessened through the advantage
of the Copper act, and allowed to go at large.
Although to breathe the pure air of heaven must
be a luxury to those so long debarred from that
blessed privilege, yet to be spied upon and not be
able to visit wives and children, who so much need
the protection of husband and father, is little less
than an affliction. On Thursday morning Parley
P. Pratt was released from imprisonment, he hav-
ing had to remain a little longer than he otherwise
would, on account of some infringement upon the
regulations of the Penitentiary.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow, of the 11th Ward of this
city, has been east gathering up genealogical re-
cords. She left here on the 3rd of September ult.,
via the D. & R. G. Railway, and went direct to
New York; afterwards to Brooklyn, where she
has a sister residing. She has also visited differ-
ent parts of the State of Vermont, Arlington,
Bennington and other places, and up Lake Cham-
plain to St. Albans, and other points enroute, and
visited in Rhode Island, Providence and other
parts of that state. Sister Snow has enjoyed her
journey very much indeed; has everywhere been
well received, among friends, relatives and old
acquaintances, and has returned home buoyant in
spirits, and not at all fatigued bodily. She crossed
the plains coming home by the Union Pacific
Railway. Sister Snow is looking remarkably well,
and for a women over seventy has traveled a
pretty good distance in so short a time as a month
and a week, arriving at her own home in this city
on the 10th of October.


