HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Keep Preserves Good.—Put them in stone jars or
vessels of glass, earthern or stoneware; cover tightly and
keep in a cool, dry place. Look at them every month; if
they are turning, scald and return to the jars.

Loaf Cake.—Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, one cup-
ful of sugar, three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,
three teaspoonfulls of baking powder, flour to thicken, and
flavor with Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix and bake
in one loaf.

	Sauce for Pudding. - Two large cupfuls brown sugar,
one large cupful butter, one teacupful wine, and a little of
Burnett’s Extract of Rose. Boil the sugar and wine to-
gether, then add the butter and Burnett’s Extract of Nut-
meg.

A Good Sponge Cake.—Into a froth made of seven eggs
and two teacupfuls of sugar, stir two coffee-cupfuls of flour,
mixed with a teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream of
tartar. Flavor with a teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of
Lemon or Almond.

	Christmas Cake.—One pound of flour, half pound of
currants, half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, two
teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs, half a pint of
milk. Mix the baking powder thoroughly in the flour,
then rub in the butter, add the sugar, currants and flavor-
ing, beat the eggs and mix them with the milk, and after
mixing them all thoroughly together bake in a prepared
tin in a moderate oven; add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's
Extract of Lemon.

	Gold Cake.—One and one-half cups of sugar, three-
quarters of a cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, the yolks
of eight eggs, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of
baking powder, and two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract
of Vanilla. Mix the sugar and butter to a cream, add the
eggs, then the milk, and lastly the flour in which the bak-
ing powder has been well mixed; this cake must be well
stirred; bake in one cake, in a medium oven, about one
hour.

	Silver cake. - One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-
half a cupful of butter, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,


three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder,
Burnett's Extract of Almond, and the whites of eight eggs
beaten to a froth. Mix the butter and sugar to
a cream, add the milk, then half of the flour and half of
the beaten eggs, then the other half of the flour and eggs,
then the baking powder, which has been well mixed with
the flour, and should always be sifted; flavor to taste with
almond flavor, make in one loaf, and bake in a medium
oven about one hour and ten minutes.

	Kiss Cakes.—One pound of flonr, eight ounces of but-
ter, eight ounces of currants, two ounces of sugar, and
one teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix the
flour and sugar, and make it into a smooth paste with
water, but do not make it very wet. Roll out three times,
and spread in the butter as for pastry. Roll it very thin,
and cut into round or square cakes; spread half of them
very thickly with currents, press the others gently on the
top, so as to form a sandwich, and bake in a quick oven
till of a light brown. If preferred, jam may be used in-
stead of currants.


