MISCELLANEOUS.

	He is never without dignity who avoids
wounding the dignity of others.
	“Considering one’s own weakness is a great
help to gentleness in dealing with others.”
	There is speaking well, speaking easily,
speaking justly and speaking seasonably.
	He who can change his religion has none to
change. Those who prefer philosophy to
Christ never knew Him.—Spurgeon.
	A good deed is never lost; he who sows
courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants 
kindness gathers love. 
	Pleasure is a shadow, wealth is vanity, and
power is a pageant; but knowledge is ecstatic in
enjoyment, perennial in form, unlimited in
space, and infinite in duration.
	“Character is a mosaic which takes a life-
time for its completion, and trifles, the little
things of life, are the instruments most used
in preparing each precious stone for its
place.”
	There is nothing more wretched, mournful
and damnable in the eyes of God than the
ministry, if it be sought from impure motives,
and administered in an impure spirit; but
nothing more blessed in the eyes of God, if
the battle be fought in the manner enjoined
by our Captain.—Augustine.
	"Love must have expression, or it will die.
It can be kept forever beautiful and blessed as
at first, by giving it constant utterance in
word and act. The more it is allowed to flow
out in delicate attentions and noble service,
the stronger and more satisfying and more
blessed it will be. The house becomes home
only when love drops its heavenly manna in it
fresh every day; and the true marriage vow is
not made once for all at the altar, but by loving
words, helpful services, and delicate attentions
to the end.”
	“To be able to look cheerfully and hopefully
through clouds of poverty and distress is an
accomplishment bestowed by nature upon
every true and brave woman; and, no matter
how poor or humble her home may be, the
magic power of smiles can brighten its shadows
and lighten its cares. Upon the troubled mind
of a feeling husband a wife’s smile falls like a
sunbeam on a flower. And how much more
beautiful it makes the face that wears it than a
frown! When a wife and mother, forgetting
sorrows and hardships, smiles away her tears,
there is a loveliness in the act that speaks, to a
man’s heart more eloquently than words.”


﻿“Mrs. Lida Meriwether,the Southern poetess,
says, in the Woman's Magazine, that the por-
trait of John Stuart Mill at the Watts gallery
in New York ‘looks like nothing under the
sun but a nice old lady, who has brought her
knitting and come over to spend the afternoon
with the folks.' "


