“DEAR GOULD AND LAURA:
	After so long a time, I take up my pen to
address you, which I should do with much
more pleasure could I feel an assurance that
my communication would ever reach you.
However this may be, I feel that I must write,
and trust an over-ruling power to convey it to
you.
	I know you must be anxious to learn some-
thing about your brother and sister and their
families; this information I intend to give, as
the overwhelming cares of life seem to prevent
them from writing themselves.
	Wm. Murray and Vilate, with their families,
are all alive and well, as far as I know. Wm.
started for Missouri two weeks ago, taking his
wife and daughter and little son with him. He
expects to stay through the summer and fall,
in order to get something together for the
journey to the mountains the ensuing spring.
They have had dreadful sickness in their
family since they left that part of the country
—every one of them have been at the very
gates of the grave, but the Lord has delivered
them from death, and they live to praise Him.
I saw Wm. at a meeting the day before he
started; his soul was like a watered garden; he
rejoiced in the God of his salvation, and praised
the Lord that he was counted worthy to suffer
affliction for His name’s sake, realizing, if he
suffered with Him, he should reign with Him.
*	*	* 	His eldest daughter, Jennette,
lives with Vilate and calls her mother, as she
may with great propriety, and enjoys the love
of God in her soul from day to day; indeed,
their house is a perfect Bethel. (If ever a
woman was blessed it is Vilate; the Spirit of
the Lord seems to be poured out upon her
without measure, and her tongue is like the pen
of a ready writer, while she pours out her soul
in blessings on her household and her neighbors.)
Oh! that you could both be here for one week,
you would know, indeed, the reality of what I
write.
	Helen was married to a young man by the
name of Whitney, one year ago last February.
*	*	Mr. Whitney went with the pioneers,
and left Helen with her mother. He was dis-
tressed to go and leave her just as her hour of
trial was coming on, but duty called and he
must go. When her time of trouble came, she
was very sick, but very patient. It seemed as
though the Lord was teaching her a great lesson.
She at length gave birth to a beautiful little
daughter, but mother and child could not both
live, and she was destined to yield up to death

[Column 2]
the dear little object on which she had doted
with her whole heart. You know how natural
it is for our hearts to cleave to earthly objects,
and how easy it is with the Lord to blast every
ray of comfort, that we may seek our all in
Him. Helen’s affection is indeed a savor of
life unto her. She sunk into the will of God
with all her heart, and her soul was so filled
with the joy of heaven that she enjoys rather
than suffers her bereavement. How I should
love you to see her and all the family.
	(Vilate is now nursing her seventh son,
Solomon.		*	*	She never enjoyed
life before as she does now; she is often filled
with the spirit of prophecy in such a manner
as shows the power and mercy of the Great
God, and astonishes those that have known her
in former years. She is not the poor, despond-
ing Vilate, that scarcely dared hope for salva-
tion. no, no! but she is that being on whom the
candle of the Lord shines continually.)  Jennette
is a great comfort to her as a housekeeper.
They are all striving with one consent to make
the port of endless rest.
	Brigham and Heber, with nearly two hun-
dred of chosen men, left this place on the 14th
of April for the Rocky Mountains. We heard
from them by way of the fur company, when
they were fifty miles from this place, since
which, we have heard nothing, nor do we ex-
pect to until we see them, and that may be a
long time, or it may be this fall. They will
probably go till they find a place where we
can rest for a little season.
	About the 10th of June a company began to
collect at a place called the Elk Horn, about
twenty miles from here.	*	*	By
the 20th there were five hundred and seventy-
three wagons ready to start; but having some
business to come back for, two men and two
women started, but had not traveled many
miles when they were beset by three Indians,
who intended robbing them. They were un-
armed, and the Indians had rifles; one of the
men had lingered behind, which left the other
alone, but he did not choose to give up his
horses, and struggled manfully with two In-
dians, while the one that stood looking on drew
up his rifle and shot him. They were so
frightened at what they had done, that they
fled into the woods. The young man, whose
name was Jacob Wetherbee, died the next
morning.
	This was the 20th, and the next day the
company moved on. The wagons went four
abreast, and some that were there declared it
the grandest sight their eyes were ever blessed
with. Their wagons were all neatly prepared,
and everything for their comfort that could be
obtained, but yet they will suffer enough.

	We are here on the banks of the Missouri
River.  	*	The Omahas are the most de-
graded and worthless race of beings that ever
my eyes beheld, but the Lord can bring them
up, for it is easy with Him to do whatsoever
seemeth Him good.
	We do not suffer anything from fear of the
Indians, for we know that for their sakes we
are suffering all these things, and we are sure
that the Lord our God will not suffer them to
destroy us. There has been great destruction
of life, both with man and beast, since we left
Nauvoo, but none of these things move us
while we are keeping the commandments of
our Lord and Master, for we know that whether
we live or die we are His. If this was to be
our home for a few years, it would soon be-
come a delightsome place; but we may not
abide here; we must seek rest in a far distant
land. Some of the Missourians are constantly
using their influence with the Indians to have
them kill the “Mormons,” but we trust in the
Lord they will prevail. The brethren that
remain here have planted seeds of all kinds,
and certain it is that the blessing of heaven

[Column 3]
attends the labors of their hands. It is indeed
cheering to every heart to see every kind of
vegetation growing as though they were upon
a race to see which would out-do.
	There has been but two steamboats here this
season; this makes the river appear rather
lonely, except when the fur boats are scudding
down; seven were seen at once, yesterday; we
hailed them with joy—I mean with our eyes,
for it looks so lonely to see no raft upon the
water.	*	Our people have an excellent
grist mill here, which may cost some thousands
of dollars. It does a first rate business.
	I should like to tell you how many hundred
houses we have built, but have not lately ascer-
tained. In March there were about eight
hundred, and many have been built since.
Some are very good log houses, and others
about the medium, and many poor indeed, but
better than none. The land is far from being
level here, but the hills are really beautiful—
far more so, to me, than level land could be.
	If you could sail up the river and take a
peep at our town, you would say it was roman-
tic and even grand, notwithstanding the log
huts. The season has been thought rather
backward, but at present is very fine.	*	*
	I had a hard fit of sickness last fall, after I
wrote you from Farmington. I did not reach
the camp until the latter part of November,
and have seen pretty strait times through the
winter, as hundreds of others have, but have
got along with it all, and am very comfortably
provided for. I am satisfied, though I am
alone in the world, and all I ask of it is to get
comfortably through it; I am not disposed to
hurry out by any by path but I wait the
leisure of my Lord. I believe my sun will
set in peace. I do not love the world, nor the
things of the world, and am sorry that so many
of our people have such a hankering after the
vanities of life. There are all sorts of beings
among us, and I know not how long it must be
so.	*	*	We commit all things to
Him whose right it is to reign, and we know
assuredly that everything will work together
for the good of those that love and put their
trust in Him.
	My health is tolerably good while I take
care of myself; my work is nearly done in this
campaign; I must live easy, or I cannot live at
all.	*	  If this should ever reach you, I
beg that you will not defer writing.
	Now wishing you to be wholly the Lord’s in
this world and in that world which is to come,
I bid you farewell.”
