R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held Sep.
5th, 1885, Counselor Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Singing, "O my Father," etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor B. W. Smith. Singing. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of Y. L.
from the 20th and 11th Wards, also P. A. from
21st and 20th Wards.
	Sister Zina rejoiced to meet with the sisters after
such a long absence, and referred to the beautiful
ideas she had noticed in the minutes from the as-
sociations. "Our children are like flowers, and
they will not grow up without cultivation, and we
need the Spirit of God with us daily, that we may
bring them up in an acceptable way." Made many
interesting remarks.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball each
spoke a short time, and gave a few items of their
trip through Bear Lake valley.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her views on the
times, and her impressions that the times would
grow brighter.
	Sister Zina referred to the privileges the Saints
enjoy in the Temple, and the necessity of purity
of life, in order to secure the blessings of the
ordinances in the house of the Lord. Gave excel-
lent advice to mothers in regard to the dress of
children, and exhorted them to set good examples
before them. Spoke of the Hospital, and reported
its present condition and needs; urged the sisters
to send fruits, jellies, etc., and related some in-
teresting anecdotes that were applicable to her re-
marks.
	Sister E. H. Woodmansee and Sister Jane
Fowler bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister E. B. Wells thought the sisters would
cultivate themselves by speaking and praying in
the meetings whenever they had an opportunity.
Urged the mothers to pay special attention to the
company their sons and daughters associated with,
of the dangers to which the young are now ex-
posed, and the great interest she felt in the deport-
ment and cultivation of the youth of Zion. Sister
Mary Silver bore a powerful testimony.
	Sister Zina made closing remarks, and told the
congregation that Brigham Young had said the
true Saints would never have any trial greater than
this people had already passed through. Singing.
Benediction by Miss Alice Jenkins.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Oct. 3rd, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer by Prest. Horne, and singing
again, Prest. Horne read the resignation of Miss
Alice Jenkins, as secretary, and a motion was
made to accept it, she having served faithfully
for some years, and resigned now only on account
of removing from the city. Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted, and minutes of Y. L.
from 10th and 20th Wards, and P. A. from 20th,
5th, 11th, 16th and 21st Wards were also read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in which
she alluded to the trials through which the Saints
were passing, and the necessity of faithfulness.
Said she was proud of the brethren who had stood
up before the courts and borne a faithful testimony;
illustrated her remarks by Scripture quotations,
and brought up some good examples.
	A sister it the congregation made some remarks,
bore her testimony, and said how much she had
enjoyed her recent visit to the Temple.
	Sister Sinah Bishop spoke of the trials through
which the Saints are now passing, and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of plural mar-
riage.
	Sister Dyer spoke a short time and broke forth
in the gift of tongues, Sister Bishop giving the in-
terpretation. Sister Elsmore bore a faithful testi-
mony of the Gospel. Singing, "The Spirit of
God," etc. Some other sisters bore testimony
and made good remarks. Sister Jane James spoke

[Column 2]

powerfully in tongues, and the interpretation was
given by Sister Bishop.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remarks, and
felt there had been much of the good spirit in the
meeting. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, "Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah," etc.
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held Oct. 17th, 1885,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Singing,
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. A. from the 12th and 20th Wards,
and P. A. of the 20th, 10th and 5th Wards. Prest.
Horne proposed Miss Jane Smalie as Secretary
of these meetings, which was unanimously
carried.
	Sister E. S. Taylor, the first speaker, gave an
interesting account of her visit to the General
Conference at Logan, and alluded to the excellent
sermons of Moses Thatcher and Erastus Snow.
	Sister H. M. Whitney spoke upon the present
condition of this people, the fulfillment of the
prophecies; gave some of her own experience,
and said she often thought we should exercise
more charity towards those who are being tried.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed her desire to
see the young people active in the organizations;
thought it was good for them to stand up and
speak; thought we ought to encourage them all we
could, and made other good remarks.
	Prest Horne then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the time, and Sisters Tay-
lor, Kimball, Eva Young, Fowler, Watmough
and Mortenson spoke upon the principles of the
Gospel and bore testimony to its truth.
	Prest. Horne spoke a few minutes of the events
transpiring among the nations, and the final
triumph of the Saints. Meeting then adjourned
for two weeks. Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Watmough.


