		CHESTNUT TIME.

	The frosty October and early November
days remind me of the nutting season in dear
old New England. Oh, the fun and frolic of
rambling off into the woods, away through the
hilly pastures, with a jolly crowd of boys and
girls, baskets in hand, and supplied with a
lunch for the day, all bent on having a gay
time and coming home well laden with nuts, to
help while away the winter evenings. Can I
ever forget the merry peals of joyous laughter
which echoed and re-echoed among the hills,or

[Column 2]
the sighing and moaning of the tall pines that
seemed to rebuke our merriment and temper it
with sentimental thoughts. But the boys,
those dreadful, mischievous, rollicking boys,
never seemed to listen, or heed the voices in the
trees, but teased the girls unmercifully, and
refusing to shake the trees for nuts, unless they
would consent to being kissed, which, of course,
the girls wouldn’t do for anything, and so they
would chase them here and there until they
could corner them, when submitting graceful-
ly was the wisest course to pursue; and besides,
how could we go home with empty baskets?
and the boys were obstinate. And even when
the boys would climb the great handsome trees
and shake down the heavy, sharp, prickly
burrs, we were even more frightened at them
than before, for if you ran under the trees to
pick them up, they would shake away with all
their might, and the great chestnut burrs
would fall on you until, you would feel as if
you were just covered with sharp prickles.
Many innocent little flirtations have been
carried on under the chestnut boughs, that
served for pastime then but left an aching
void in the impressionable heart of one partici-
pant, which perhaps the other party concerned
in the affair never even dreamed of.
	Sometimes, however, it has happened that
the attachment of a life-time has begun in the
woods, when the children were out nutting.
Romantic little incidents of this kind in the
youthful experience of boys and girls often
glow with tender passages, that are forever
stamped on the human heart, and when one
sits musing on an autumn day, and hears the
wind whistling and the dry leaves flying hither
and thither, and circling into great round piles,
here and there, and making a perfect carpet
of matting under one’s feet, it is sure to bring
back some of the little episodes in one’s past
life that have left their impression upon the
tablets of memory, forming a perfect picture.
	Imagine a cold, crisp November day, and
a thickly clustered wood of tall chestnut trees,
the branches loaded with great rough burrs,
and a merry group of boys and girls, with
bright sparkling eyes, and rosy cheeks and
lips; chatting and laughing as they toss and
turn the fallen leaves hunting for chestnuts,
while the brave-hearted and fun-loving
boys climbed the trees and sent down showers
of great rough burrs all over and around the
girls below. All in good humor, and radiant
with delight, they are filling their baskets with
the nuts, and casting sly glances and carrying
on little flirtations meanwhile.
	As the day advances, almost unwittingly,the
boys and girls divide up into groups of two or
three, and the loud talking and general con-
versation gradually softening into lower tones,
until the falling of a chestnut burr, now and
then, as the branches sway hither and yon
in the autumn wind, makes one start
and turn, because of the quiet that has settled
down upon the happy, childish party.
	Finally a clear, cheery voice calls out that
the sun is near setting and it is time to go,and,
reluctantly,the little crowd gather up their well
filled baskets and turn their faces homeward.
	The boys, edging up towards the girls, take
their baskets and help them, so kindly, over
the rough places, and lift them down from the
rail fences they have to climb, that divide the
pastures on their way. At length, tired, and
their fingers smarting with pain from the burrs
they have handled, they reach the lane that
leads to the village; and now they begin to
think of separating, and the good nights are
being said as the sun in resplendent magnifi-
cence casts a halo of light over the carelessly
arranged group, as they stand with faces West-
ward, gazing away into the distance, instead
of into each other’s eyes. What a pretty
tableaux they make in the light of the setting
sun, their faces radiant with hope and joy, the

[Column 3]
careless abandon of their toilettes after their
day’s sport in the woods, and the queer varie-
ties of baskets, loaded down with the brown
nuts, covered artistically with gay colored
autumn leaves.
	There were pleasant thoughts in the hearts
of these boys and girls, that had come with
the day and the pastime, and they had begun
to learn the first lessons of love, and which of
us would say it is not passing sveet?
 
	"Their love in early infancy began,
	And rose as childhood ripen'd into man."
