HOW I BECAME A MORMON.

  Having learned from a friend of mine that
she expected an old friend of the family to
visit her, and, notwithstanding it was to preach
“Mormonism” he was coming, I accepted her
invitation to spend the evening at her home.
Of course I made up my mind not to become
a “Mormon,” but I was curious enough to
want to know something of their belief, so,
after the introductions were gone through,
Elder Robert Marshall, for that was our friend’s
name, came and sat down by me on a couch,
and, without further preliminary, introduced
the subject of baptism, proving it from Holy
Writ. I began to feel very small, as I could
prove nothing in defence of my own creed, al-
though I maintained that I was right, believing
in faith and repentance, as all the world pro-
fesses to do, spiritually, at least, but coming on
to baptism, why I had never so much as
thought of it for myself; I relied so entirely
upon what our clergyman taught that it never
entered my mind to search for myself, but here
was new revelation to me. Before going to
bed each night I prayed to God that I might
know if this was His work and instituted by
Him.
  I saw Elder Marshall frequently at my
friend’s house, and he never grew tired preach-
ing to us, and, indeed, it seemed we never got
tired of listening. Finally I resolved to be
baptized, and one evening, sitting around the
fire, he asked me if I had my mind made up
yet. I said, “Yes.”  He looked delighted, but,
said he, “You must be prepared to lose your
former friendships, and to meet with scorn,
contempt and persecution, for this is the heri-
tage of the people of God.” 
  Meanwhile, my own family could not hide
from me the fact that they were secretly
annoyed by my absenting myself so much from
home, and one day, just as I was going out of
the door, mother called to me, “Going to hear
another ‘Mormon' lecture?” Of course I took


no notice, but walked on.  No more was said
till some time afterward.  I attended a meeting
in my friend’s house; just a number of her rela-
tives were there, I being the only stranger.
When evening came, mother came with it,
knocked at the door and demanded me to come
home; accordingly I went home, and I can tell
you she “went for me,” the result being I left
my home in a few days and never returned.  I
lived three months in Belfast with my friend’s
sister, and then set sail for Salt Lake, which I
have not regretted.  I know that this is God’s
work, and I do desire to be found among the
faithful, enduring to the end.
	M.	S.


