LIBERTY.

	Respected friends and fellow citizens, we
have met here to-day to celebrate, in honorable
remembrance, the anniversary of the day our
forefathers entered these valleys, where they


expected to worship God according to His will,
having been mobbed and driven from the
states of this great, free America that boasts
of liberty.
	Men, descendents of the founders o this
great country, who trace their lineage to the
religious fathers, who came to America for the
self-same cause, ridiculed and frowned down
upon because of their desire to perform and
make purer this great American nation, who
are becoming more and more corrupt by their
vileness, by those standing at the head of this
nation, who have trampled the Constitution
under foot.
	What is liberty? It consists of freedom
and privileges; but, do the Latter-day
Saints have these privileges? No. Why?
Because they are doing what is right, and be-
ing obedient to the holy principles which God
has handed down for us to adhere to.
	We see, on the Fourth of July, 1776, that
the "Declaration of Independence and Free-
dom" was assigned to this people, and it was
declared that we should have liberty. But, do
we enjoy these rights? No; they are crushed
and trampled under foot. See the cruel and
unjust laws got out against the Latter-day
Saints, trying to destroy all rights, trying to
put down the holy ordinances that our God
has handed down for us to obey, improving
each and every opportunity they have of im-
prisoning our beloved brothers and sisters, not
even allowing them justice, causing them to
lie in prison, and suffering the unreasonable
punishments which they have no right to do.
Still our noble-hearted brothers and sisters are
bearing these unlawful penalties with patience
and humility of heart, and ever trusting in
that benevolent Father who commanded these
holy principles to be practiced.
	But shall we falter? No; not under such
cowardly laws, which our oppressors assume
the right to inflict upon us. And I would say
to all our brothers and sisters, "Bear nobly on,
For we have the Lord on our side, and we still
look forth to that glorious light which will
bring liberty to all those who remain faithful,
and retain their integrity.
		NANCY A. NEBEKER, Primary Girl.


