THOUGHTS ON RECENT EVENTS.

	The events which have transpired during the
last few weeks, in and before the courts of this
Territory, and the affairs connected with them,
have stirred to the uttermost depths the hearts
and feelings of every true Latter-day Saint. Brave
men, who quail not at the threats of the officers
of the law, and who cower not at the feet of
judges and rulers, have stood manfully before the
bar and told in eloquent language the motives that
inspired them, and the reason for the hope that
was within them, and have endured with sublime
patience the stinging sarcasms of him whose
privilege it was to pass sentence upon them for a
faith and practice, that could elevate and sustain
them in the hour of severest trial.
	One's belief is actually called into question, and
no man allowed to sit upon the jury who acknowl-
edges himself a believer in the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
no matter how honorable or circumspect his life
may be, he is at once rejected; yet almost in the
same breath these classical interpreters of laws


and statutes will say, “Belief is all right; it is the
practice which makes the offence.”
	What is a religion worth which consists only in
theory? What saving qualifications does it pos-
sess? Such a religion exsists only in name; it is
not, and cannot be a living, abiding faith, that is
like unto an ever flowing fountain of intelligence
in the human soul. One of the great poets, that
the world professes to admire, and true poets are
thought living oracles, says on this subject,

	“True Christianity depends on fact;
	Religion is not theory, but act."

	The illustrious example of those fearless, un-
daunted, heroic men, who have gone before the
judge for sentence, hot with boasting or pomp, but
trusting implicitly in Israel’s God, will be a lasting
honor, not only to them,but their generations after
them. Their names, and the history of their
wrongs, will be held in everlasting remembrance,
and the principles for which many are now suffer-
ing exile, bonds and imprisonment, will, through
this very ordeal, be all the more vividly impressed
upon the hearts of the youth of Zion, and more
firmly engrafted into their lives.
	Who is there who does not admire a sublime
courage, though he may not possess it? Judges
and rulers may persecute, and scoff and fling vile
epithets at the Latter-day Saints, but if they have
a spark of manhood in their breasts they cannot
help respecting the man who will stand by his
principles and maintain his conscientious convic-
tions, honoring his wives, his children, his people
and his God. There is something tangible in such
a religion as this, something that will appeal to
the hardest heart, as well as to the noblest senti-
ments of man.
	It is sad to see good men and true men cast into
prison, or banished from their homes, but God’s
ways are not as man’s ways, and He has a purpose
to accomplish, which man cannot stay, and He will
cause the wrath of man to praise Him, even as
He has said, and it is for this people to be humble,
obedient and faithful in keeping the command-
ments He has given, and He will bring them off
victorious and establish Zion in its power and
glory, and those who abide in the covenants they
have made will be able to stand when all things
that can be shaken will be shaken.


[Column 1]
