A GOOD TESTIMONY,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have felt so often of late that I would like to
write something to encourage my sorely tried
sisters, and as I am one with them, and one of the
weakest, I cannot hope to say anything without
the good Spirit to guide me in every word.
	It is indeed a trying time, not for one alone, but
all who are determined to serve God and resist
the wily inducements of that wicked one, who
glories in the downfall of the Saints. Some of
our dear husbands are far away in lonely prisons,
and many weary months must pass ere we clasp
their dear hands in our own again. Others are
nearer, but, like them, are deprived of liberty be-
cause they were too good and brave to turn traitors
to God and to their families. Some are hunted
from place to place as a hound chases down the
wild beast. Noble men have placed the stormy
ocean between them and their persecutors, that
they might accomplish some good, while their
families are scattered far and wide, and to such
wives it is a daily trial not to be near each other,
to comfort, console and bless each other in the
absence of their trusted guide.
	My dear sisters, if we are faithful we need not
fear for the final outcome, but it is our duty to do
all we can to smoothe the rough places and catch
all the bright gleams of sunshine as we pass along
life's stormy way. How my heart aches for every
patient, loving wife, who is thus cruelly deprived
of the society of him she holds dearer than all
others, and it is but natural that her heart should
cling to him, and that it should be lonely and
desolate where he is not. It is his voice that can
quiet her fears, his hand that can soothe her ach-
ing head, and though father, mother, sisters and
brothers are all  near, none, none can fill his place
to her; and if perchance, she is a wife that the
law fails to recognize, her claims are just the same
in the eyes of God and just men, and shame upon
those who would boast a superior position, or try
to make her feel more keenly her trying one. She
must not think for a moment that she is less be-
loved because circumstances keep her isolated,
and if those who seem more fortunate are pos-
sessed of a proper spirit they will lovingly remem-
ber the absent one, and encourage the husband to
do all he can for the happiness of all who have an
equal claim on him. But we must each remember
we have a duty to perform wherever our lot may
be cast.
	We must be humble, and seek God continually,
or we will fall by the wayside. Self-righteousness
must have no place in our hearts. We must not
forget that we are not the only one who is being
tried at the present time, and how often we increase
our weary load by complaining against those who
are doing all they can for us.
	Fault-finding does not enhance our peace of
mind, and it invariably disturbs that of those we
most desire to promote. If we wish to be loved
and trusted, then let us love and trnst in return,
and be sure that the best and truest way of pure
happiness is to suffer wrong rather than do wrong,
and we cannot prove our affection in a stronger
way than by willingly and patiently bearing for
the sake of those we claim to regard so highly.
The day seems dark, and the sky full of black
clouds, but after a while they will clear away, and
then how we will have learned to appreciate the
beautiful sun, which has so long been hid. Our
Father has not forgotten us, He witnesses our
daily sorrow, and will reward us according to our
faithfulness and perseverance and the faith we
show. We have every reason to rejoice in the
principles we have solemnly vowed to defend; and
better a thousand times that we perish in trying to
live, tha nto deny one principle and lose our soul's
salvation eternally.
	God bless and comfort all the faithful, is the
daily desire of 
				Your Sister,
