[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 188 | Fiction | General Features Editorial An Open Window for the Morning | Vesta P. Crawford]
a part of her life, she will be gaining the equivalent of a college education. She will understand her calling in womanhood and motherhood and will have the knowledge and wisdom to succeed in both. I believe every Latter-day Saint woman should attend Relief Society, and in so doing, "the hand that rocks the cradle" will be strengthened, more gently and always unfalteringly. This is my sincere belief and testimony. A ae a ob -— (im 7 - es an THE UNNAMED SONG Linnie Fisher Robinson \\ She recalls her aversion to practice, ert The music room light and cool: Vow Yet the low notes came singing Singing down deep in her soul. Aa The picture comes back like an etching 7 Of that long lost childhood day; w Her father and mother so patient As she practiced her hour away. The melodies are forgotten, And the notes she tried to prolong; But all of them sang to her young heart A beautiful unnamed song That sings through the varied hours of day With faith that is sweet and strong; Her rampart of beauty, concord, and love, That will last until life is done. MI] 183 A SUMMER'S DAY eRuth Nicholson Pepper Corrimal East, New South Wales, Australia # The day she had had misgivings about had arrived. As the morning sun slatted through the Venetian blinds into the bedroom, Catherine knew that the weather would be no excuse for not going. All week, ever since Jim had suggested it and persuaded her to go, she had been reluctant. Blackberry picking! How idyllic it sounded, she thought wryly. Only it should be called "Mosquito Swatting"—or "Snake Dodging'—or "Fly Flicking!" Ugh! She shuddered inwardly, thinking of the ordeal ahead. I'm 184 no outdoor girl, Catherine mused grimly. But Jim had been insistent and she herself was tired of being left at home with baby David, always making the excuse that he was too small to take on the outings on which Jim liked to take the other two children. But why had it been blackberrying she had said yes to? It would have been more pleasant to have gone to the beach or into the bush for a barbecue. Or even— mad, crazy thought that it was —to have gone to Sydney for the day without the children, for shopping and a show. They kept talking about it, but somehow there was never enough money or time to spare. It was blackberry time, though, and their Relief Society president had especially asked all who could to gather the blackberries for jam-making for their fete. "Good idea," Jim had _ said, when she had casually mentioned it. "How about coming with us next Saturday, Cath— your mother would be glad to have David for a few hours?" And so she had been persuaded and it was now upon her. Oh, well, she thought, not without humor, I guess I'}] live through it. Their departure was one and a half hours later than planned. Saturday morning was a morning that never liked to be hurried at their home, and today had been no exception. They had all lingered and talked over breakfast, and then Catherine had washed through the nappies while Jim and the boys washed the dishes and packed some fruit and cake for their picnic lunch. In dismay, Catherine glanced back at the rooms just before they locked the door behind them—dust on the furniture, toys scattered, ironing in the basket—and it was Sunday tomorrow. Her heart sank. Saturday was usually her day to get ready for the Sabbath, and she revelled in her tidy home and ~ well-stocked shelves on Saturday night. She wouldn't be doing much _ revelling tonight, she thought ruefully. As they sped along the coast road to her mother's home on the other side of town, Catherine beA Summer's Day gan to relax a little, settling back in her seat with David on her knee, listening to Mike's and Stevie's excited chatter in the back, and to Jim humming contentedly to himself as he drove their old car. It was a glorious January day, the hot Australian sun sparkled down on the golden beaches, and the sapphire blue sea was fringed deeply with rows of stark white rolling surf. The South Pacific, she thought idly—this same romantic ocean lapped the shores of Tahiti, too. Wonder if they worried about unmade beds and mud on the back verandah there? It was going on ten o'clock before they left Catherine's mother's, uniting adoring grandmother with adoring grandson, and, after buying ice cones for them all at the corner shop, they left the main highway and followed the winding road up the mountainside. "Look, Mom—look at those big ones—there!" Stevie pointed excitedly out of the window to the blackberry bushes along the roadside, while three-year-old Mike's eyes popped silently, unable to speak for the ice cone at his mouth. "They are better further up though," Jim told them all, "but we'll try to work down to those later." Halfway up the mountain, they all jumped out of the car and began to pull on their long rubber boots, distribute billy cans, and Catherine embalmed herself with mosquito repellent. A few minutes later, questionably perfumed and oily faced, she found herself scrambling under the barbed wire with her two 

185 March 1968

 sons, while Jim held it up for them. Gingerly, they followed Jim through the waist-high grass, dry and prickly with the prolonged heat, and she hoped the snakes could hear them coming. Sevenyear-old Stevie shared her thoughts. "Hope there're no snakes," he said, half to himself, and she could tell he was as nervous as she was. They reached the first bushes and picking began, but it was soon apparent that all the best berries were right in the middle of the clump, out of reach. "Stamp the outside branches down," Jim instructed from the other side of the bush, "and get right in the middle." Catherine's mind flashed back to a newspaper article she had read only that week. "Blackberry bushes are definitely a menace to the whole south coast, harboring rabbits and snakes." She saw Stevie hanging back doubtfully as she did as Jim had directed, and began picking the inner, juicier blackberries. "Come on, Stevie—in here." "I'm scared, Mom," he said. "There's snakes in there." She looked at him in sympathy. "Yes—perhaps. But shall I tell you something?" She smiled at him as she remembered. "This morning when I got out of bed, I asked our Heavenly Father to take care of us all this day." As they looked at each other, she saw he was reassured, and he followed her to help pick the berries. She suddenly felt lighter in her own heart, too. Somehow, by sharing her prayer with an- 186 other who had been afraid, she had strengthened her own faith in Heavenly Father's protection. "It's good to know Heavenly Father watches over us, isn't it, Mom?" Stevie said, as he crouched beside her, pulling off the lower berries. "Yes, Stevie, it is." As the morning wore on they gradually worked their way down the hillside, the sun growing hotter and hotter, and the rich scent of the berries almost overpowering in its sweetness. For a moment, Catherine paused to look at the loveliness of the land—the blue hazed hills flanking the long green valley with its gray-green gum trees, and the glittering sea, in front of her. What a good country it was to live in, she thought, and she wondered then if her greatgrandfather, who had come in chains to Australia, had seen the beauty of this sun-drenched land, or if it had always been a prison to him as he remembered the softness of his native, faraway England. © ddeniy, she was glad she had come. Glad that she had left the housework for a day to enjoy the beauty of her country.

[General Features Editorial An Open Window for the Morning Vesta P. Crawford]

Suddenly, too, she realized that her fear of snakes and _ insect bites was nothing more than an excuse for staying home to cook, clean, and wash—her neat, conscientious mind running every day deeper into the groove that she was wearing away for herself. How good it was to jump out of the groove once in awhile, she thought, with a smile, and she grinned happily at young Mike with his purple stained face. Later, they stopped briefly for a quick lunch, calling to Mike and Stevie who had been distracted from the blackberries by a trickle of a stream with tadpoles. As they slaked their thirst with apples and oranges they laughed as they compared their scratches, Catherine ruefully surveying her legs and arms torn from top to bottom in spite of her boots, and her purple, thorn-pricked hands. "My beauty's ruined," she chuckled and she caught the look in her husband's eye. "It's been good having you with us, Cath," he said quietly, "IT miss you when you don't come." "Yes, Jim—I should try to get out more with you—I've enjoyed it so much this morning —just being with you and the boys. I hate being left at home when you go off—and yet it always seems so much effort to y / A Summer's Day get ready and come—always so much to be done at home." He nodded. "I know, love," he answered. "I wish I could make things easier for you." "You help me enough, Jim," she said. "I wouldn't want you to do more. No—I've thought about it a lot—until the children grow up a bit its going to be hard—partly I guess because of my nature that must have everything just so. But I'm going to come out more with you, Jim. Make me come, as you did today, it's been like a vacation." "I'm going to thank Heavenly Father tonight for keeping away the snakes," Stevie said suddenly, as he thoughtfully chewed on his apple. Catherine smiled at him. "And I'm going to thank him for such a wonderful day with such a wonderful family." And she leaned over and kissed her husband. A CEDARS Annie C. Esplin Ageless, the cedars keep a trust with man, Sending deep roots into the valley floor; Redoubtable in drouth and strong wild winds— Yet, standing fragrant by a cottage door. Green on the mountains, green on the plain, Against rose-brown peaks and rose terrain. Shelter for the pastures, grace for the street, The cedars hold the seasons at their feet. Immune to common parasites, they know The mischief of the clinging mistletoe. They sing a quiet song in spare, spare land— Recompense of green to stone and sand. Ad 187 VOLUME 

 NUMBER 3 General Board = Belle S. Spafford, President ™ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor w Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer An { pen Window for the Morning... Daniel went into his house; and his windows being open... Toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God.... (Daniel 6:10.) The scriptures record the history of Daniel, who was ''of the king's seed, and of the princes.'' He was taken a captive into the land of Babylon and given a Chaldean name and was schooled in the learning of an alien land, where he became a powerful counselor to Nebuchadnezzar and Darius the Great. Yet Daniel kept his window open toward Jerusalem, and he remembered his heritage. In the year's beginning, or the day's beginning, or the beginning of a season of our lives, or on the Anniversary of Relief Society, let us keep the windows open—not only the casement windows of our homes, but the windows of our spiritual dwelling, for an open window, Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous wherever it may be, directs our thoughts outward, and beckons us to concerns and considerations beyond our immediate problems and our personal desires. By looking through an open window, it may be possible for us to learn wisdom and to become more fully aware of our possibilities and our ultimate destiny. Perhaps we can look upon the eternal design and see therein a pattern for ourselves in relationship to our families, our friends, our responsibilities, and a direction for our prayers. It may be that our own open windows may be lighted and luminous—a beckoning to the pathway someone else may be seeking. A lamp which a pioneer mother lighted and placed in a window became a light unto many who were looking for illumination. The woman polished the glass chimney of her lamp; she trimmed the wick; and filled the receptacle with oil. Then she set the lamp in the window which faced the road and the highway. The woman's daughter remarked that the lamp was not placed for the most advantageous reading position, but the mother said, ''Move your chair a little, my dear.