[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 161 | Article | Compass for a Child | Peggy Tangren]
3 Compass for a Child Peggy Tangren What will you remember when the roads you take Narrow and dead-end against your mind? Memory will have mileposts leading back To these high fields Where now you run in meadow rue Rocked by wind, and reach, Knowing some day you will be Tall enough to part a cloud And gather down an armful of clear sky. Where visions fade in fog and then are lost, In crowded places sharp with hurting sound, You will know the stillness of deep water, For you were born of tranquil places, Of mountain tops cleaving lanes of air. You have followed corridors of light Through darkened forests, And been nurtured on summer's sweetest yield. This will be your compass when you go Your magic shield. The Cover: Blossoms at Appomattox Courthouse, Virginia Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Needle Mountains, Near Molas Lake, Colorado Photograph by Don Knight Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far I am delighted to belong to an American Branch. This gives me an opportunity to improve myself in the English language. I admire very much the sisters in Relief Society. Indeed, they have the Spirit of the Lord, and they also have very much initiative. I am grateful to The Relief Society Magazine for the joy I feel in increasing my knowledge of the gospel. I like to share the Magazine with my husband, because it gives us the opportunity to have a beautiful and instructive discussion, and I also like to share the Magazine with my neighbors. Fernanda G. Chilicky Nogales, Arizona May I express my thanks to you for the high standard of art The Relief Society Magazine maintains. The covers are beautiful, uplifting, and edifying, and the drawings are ideal I say ideal, for they are beautiful and well done, and the women are always modest. May the Lord bless you for maintaining the Lord's standards. I can, with confidence, let our children read this Magazine. Mrs. J. Vance Miller Pingree, Idaho Although I am a college graduate, I had never learned to appreciate poetry, until the combination of the Out of the Best Books series, these last few years, plus the Magazine, with its many poems each month, and my wonderful cultural refinement class leader, Violet Larsen, have finally helped me to love and understand poetry. Helen F. Cheney Downey, California I think the December Magazine is superb, with its lovely Madonna cover, and so many beautifully arranged homes in memory of the birth of our Savior. I liked the Christie Lund Coles poem "Christmas Is the Same" so much. I knew Christie when I lived in Springville and belonged to the League of Utah Writers. I also liked especially well the story "The Christmas Lamb" by Elaine M. Murray. I used it in my Sunday School class last Sunday. Lucy W. B. Jones Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoy the Magazine so very much. It was given me on my birthday by my parents Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Willardson of Salt Lake City, Utah the most wonderful parents in the world. Mrs. Jewel Carter West Covina, California What a beautiful New Year's message from our general presidency in the January Magazine. It is so meaningful to the Relief Society sisters on the Ricks College campus. These are the things we will strive for in the New Year. We love and appreciate our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Lisle L. Andrus President, Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg, Idaho Homemaking Department, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1967 Edythe K. Watson 164 Arm in Arm With the Priesthood 7 [Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967. ] Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric » Elder Romney, Sister Spafford, brothers and sisters, the Lord must be very pleased with the activities of these two days. The Lord's pleasure can only be complete, however, as we now implement what we have been taught during this conference. So, the true test really lies ahead as we put ourselves into action. Why does the mere mention of the words Relief Society renew my faith? Why do I thrill each time I see the sisters accomplishing their noble work in a quiet, unassuming manner' without boast, no show, just unobtrusively "seeking out objects of charity?" During the past thirty days, I have observed you quietly administering consolation and assistance to a family who lost a loved one. I have seen you graciously and compassionately comforting the sick. I have seen you faithfully going forth to spread your tidings of good will as visiting teachers. I have seen you faithfully going forth to Spread tarried a little too long in help. Your Cheerfy] countenance and Ing to deliver a baby. Yes, Visit - to ably and willingly respond to ing teaching can really be excitner erhaps J a little IstyMaybe I ave some of these €yed because I rem mber go ell feelings abou Relief Society beth Y When a lief Societ € world. I wa d Weary, almos aS an afte tho ght, « d and ho S as sat down, Please €aven] her ¢ Practically in th Shadows of the restore eyesight My b by Pyramids » Prepared to was born py] > and yoy have anded me th d Cross did not d 2.00 ye 80, nor an you agin Y emotion will they ever long as he emotion that filled m there a; faithfy] Relief Societ €art—as I found a note inside Sisters O Tlesthood Which rea ~— the Lord bless bearers Uniting their f. Th, makyou for What yoy are doing in Ing al] things Possible in the Lord. The name of liberty and Peace," Who can match the Strength signed, "The Relief Society of character, the Patience, Or the The Church of Jesus Christ of hope of one 'Relief Society mothe Latter-day ' aints, Takami Who declare In my hearing, af IS frujt sent by the il] It a hy dred m e, if very same Sisters w d blesseq need be, because ] ant to spend me so Undant] ew eternity With the fath of m ealand Sslonar Just a Couple ch Idren H. A good an, and Of years before found me Now th n he wil] alfway around the World. My recognize € truth of this great chance 9 receiving that ParticyChurch," ar fruitcak Was probah Y Some Sisters, here jg Id Saying, Ing like 4 million, Jt "First things fip. T," and I Would did Something ¢ me. It was an like to © 2 ples With you answer to Prayer here today that in yoy do elief Society also Means With y lr Dazaars th your Watching the good Sisters of quiltin jects th y ur dies,' river to Insure a ne hundred thing You have to lS made Per cent Visiting €acher report, Possible 5 Cause yoy are specia] and Particular] » the time the The Lo S given yoy a didn't come back + t evenin Perame d Personality that They were not back Until the are different from ys men. There Next day because the ocean tide are things that the Priesthood came in to block their Path can Most effectively 4CComplish homewarg, only because they through you and only through March 1968 you. Just keep in mind the direction found in your Handbook, and that singular, noble purpose will never be found wanting. That printed direction from your Relief Society presidency states that your main purposes are: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level... To save souls. (Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.) Oh, that every woman in the world had such a code to live by! What a different world this would be. In discussing this important speaking assignment with Sister Spafford and her counselors, the suggestion was made that something might be said that would be helpful in fostering a closer understanding between the ward Relief Society presidents and the bishops. I took the liberty of inviting several bishops to make comments upon their working relationship with the Relief Society presidency of their ward. I thought some of their observations were classic, and I would like to pass them on to you this afternoon. While the examples are from bishops, the same fundamentals would apply, of course, in a branch or mission, as well as in the ward or stake. One bishop said this: "Our Relief Society president is always ready with excellent counsel, and once the bishopric makes a decision, she supports us all the way." This statement could well have been made by the First 166 Presidency of the Church with reference to your general president. Nothing has thrilled me more than to see the cooperation of Sister Spafford and her counselors in carrying out the desires of our leaders. You will be interested in a recent comment made in my hearing by a member of the First Presidency when he said that he had never known a woman who supports the priesthood any better than Sister Spafford. Sister Spafford, we salute you for your great example. It reminds me of a slogan, "Which way to go, the leader will know." I hope every stake president and bishop is able to make this same observation about his stake or ward Rehef Society president. To be sustained in Church leadership is vital to the success of this Church. Nothing means more to a leader than to be sustained by those working with him. President Tanner related a touching incident on one occasion as he told about his first counselor when he served as a bishop of a ward in Canada. An important decision had to be made. President Tanner and his first counselor had differing opinions about the solution. They decided to fast for twenty-four hours, that the final decision might be correct. After the fast, it was obvious that each was still of the same opinion, and then Brother Tanner stood up and said, "Brethren, as_ the bishop of this ward, I feel strongly that this is the way we must move." At that point, that great first counselor came to his side, put his arm around the bishop and declared, "Bishop, I want you to know that I sustain you all the way." You see, the priesthood authority had spoken, and now this is the direction we move. Recently, a General Authority had just expressed his views on a vital subject, and afterwards was informed that the President of the Church had just given his view, and that it was different. This great apostle of the Lord then commented without hesitation: "In that case, brethren, I have just changed my mind." We must follow our properly designated authority in this Church. Should we fail in this concept, chaos would reign. The work could not go forward. May I be bold enough to share with you sisters a very personal incident that took place just six years ago this week as President McKay honored me with this call to be a member of the Presiding Bishopric. Naturally, there was a period of quiet emotion after the invitation was made. Then as we stood, ready to take our leave, President McKay walked directly to Sister Simpson. He took her by the hand. He proceeded to look deeply into her eyes and into her soul, and his patient silence and kindly smile seemed to be an invitation for her to comment. Finally, she said, "President, I want you to know that I will support and sustain my husband in this new calling." With that, President _McKay said, "Sister Simpson, that is exactly what I wanted to hear."