[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 234 | Lesson | Homemaking Observing, Recognizing, And Reporting Illness | Alice Schmidt]
Seal ale Talk st Jieant HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 9—Observing, Recognizing, and Reporting Illness Alice Schmidt, Assistant Professor Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 OBJECTIVE: To learn to be alert for common symptoms of illness occurring in the home. INTRODUCTION When a woman marries and begins to rear a family, she assumes two roles, that of mother and also that of home nurse. The responsibility of keeping her eyes and ears open for early, telltale signs of illness fall to her, and rightly so, for she is the one who observes family members most closely—whether they are working, playing, or resting. Much of this observation is done without comment, since a mother can cause unnecessary apprehension on the part of her family if she seeks needlessly for symptoms of illness. SYMPTOMS OF ILLNESS a. Many diseases begin with upper respiratory symptoms, thus 234 the nose and throat are affected. It is a good practice for the home nurse to check the throat when no illness is present so that she will be aware of the normal state of the throat and tonsils. Ys To check the throat, have the family member tip his head back slightly and say "ah." By placing a spoon handle about two-thirds of the way back on the tongue and shining a flashlight into the mouth, the home nurse should be able to see to the back of the throat, checking for redness, swelling, spots, or patches. She should also note the condition of the tongue and any unusual odor of the breath. The symptoms presented by the nose are familiar ones: a watery or thick discharge or nasal stuffiness which impedes breathing. The latter is often a problem with infants because it interferes with their ability to suck. This should be discussed with the family doctor where it poses a problem. B. Occasionally, symptoms of illness are noted in the eyes. This would include: any unusual color of the white area of the eyes; any discharge, either watery or purulent; sensitivity to light or any other unusual condition. C. A mother notes, almost subconsciously, any changes in the skin of a small child as she bathes him. Such things as the color of the skin, dryness, a rash, or scattered pustules, sores, bruises, or reddened areas, all of these may be important symptoms in all age groups and must be evaluated and reported to the doctor as necessary. D. Digestive system complaints occur frequently in most families. Usually, the complaints are minor, but lack of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or excessive thirst which occur over a _ period of time may indicate a need for professional help. Sometimes Lesson Department general conditions such as irritability, fatigue, unusual sleepiness, even forgetfulness which comes on suddenly, are clues which may be important in the diagnosis of disease. When a family member mentions pain, the home nurse needs to know the location, type (continuous, intermittent, stabbing, throbbing), severity and time of onset, before she reports to the doctor. SEVEN DANGER SIGNALS OF CANCER Due to the efforts of the American Cancer Society, people have become more aware of the seven danger signals of cancer. Because cancer is a menace which can be defeated if detected early, *each home nurse should familiarize herself with these seven signs: 1. Changes in a wart or mole; 2. A chronic cough or hoarseness; 3. A change in bowel habits; 4. A non-healing wound; 5. A lump appearing anywhere; 6. Unusual bleeding or discharge from any body orifice; 7. Indigestion or difficulty swallowing. These symptoms may indicate _ problems other than cancer, but they should be brought to the doctor's attention so that he can determine the cause and begin treatment. THE FACTOR OF AGE It is important, also, to remember that age may be a factor, since children often become ill very quickly, showing acute symptoms. Thus, a child may be playing happily one minute and be prostrate on the bed the next with a flushed face and high fever. On the other hand, illness in older people may develop very slowly, with symptoms which are 

235 March 1968

 much less marked. For this reason, the home nurse may need to check signs over a period of days, to note a change in the usual pattern of living. THE HOME NURSE When the home nurse suspects illness, she usually takes the temperature, pulse, and respiration of the patient before she calls the doctor. This does not mean that this should be done on all family members each day, but that a thermometer and a watch or clock with a second THE DOCTOR Each family when moving into a new community should become acquainted with the doctors and should select a family physician. Choosing a doctor in the midst of a medical emergency is a difficult task and one that can be avoided with wise planning. Nowadays, doctors make relatively few house calls as they often need equipment and diagnostic aids which are available only in their offices or at the hospital. As a result, the family is usually Daily Record Diet _—. Jit ee Medicine BM I Urine Remarks P Treatment 7 a. M. 98-70-20 Soft Diet Scanty Urine RX 2401 1 tab. Ate well 8 a. M. Rash on hand are valuable tools for the home nurse. When illness occurs in the home, a daily record helps the home nurse to keep an accurate account of all the information the doctor will need for diagnosing or treating illness. The record should contain: date, time, temperature, pulse, and respiration; diet eaten, medicines given; a record of urine and stools passed by the patient and any symptoms mentioned earlier in this lesson. 236 asked to bring the patient to one of these two places. Where the patient is an adult who is seriously ill, as with a heart attack or stroke, an ambulance is the fastest and easiest way of transportation if available. A child can usually be bundled up and carried to a waiting car. Each home nurse should have available the number of the ambulance service nearest her. She should also have the number of the doctor in case a sudden emergency arises. 6/27/67 ae Black Stool abdomen If the doctor is making a home visit, the home nurse should put the patient to bed, carry out any measures suggested by the doctor over the phone and give the patient rest and emotional support until the doctor arrives. Note; Additional information, suggestions, or helps may be available from health agencies, insurance companies, or government agencies. Discussion: It may be advisable to check with Relief Society members as to their ability to do temperature, pulse, and respiration. A review of this material can be obtained from the Red Cross Home Nursing Textbook or the Relief Society Magazine of August 1960. A model thermometer can be drawn on heavy cardboard with a black ribbon inserted through two slits as the mercury.