[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 194 | Fiction | A Summer's Day Ruth | N. Pepper]
[A Summer's Day Ruth N. Pepper]

The twenty-eight women are all between the ages of thirty-two and fifty-two, and will be followed in graduation by many other women of similar ages who are now in training at Quo Vadis. Many United States and Canadian hospitals are studying ways to set up special facilities for training older women to become nurses, for, as the directors of Quo Vadis believe, ''some skills and insights come only from living." Denise Jensen (Mrs. Joseph Rivera), soprano, student at the Manhattan School of Music, and pupil of Sarkus Sakarian, in November, was presented at a recital sponsored by the Latter-day Saints Arts and Artists Series of the Manhattan Ward, New York City. She was accompanied by Irene Weiss, a gifted young LDS musician. Winnifred Bowers, New York editor, and former member of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association General Board, serves as director of the series. Mrs. Winifred Ewing, thirty-eight, lawyer, mother of three children, was recently elected to the British Parliament, the first member of the Scottish National Party to go to Parliament since 1945. She is representative of Scotland's emerging leaders who encourage new types of industry and a wider publicity for the great beauty of the country's green vales and craggy isles and inlets. Farah, wife of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi, was crowned Empress of Iran by her husband in Teheran, October 26, 1967, after he had crowned himself Emperor. The Shah, actual ruler for twenty-six years, waited to achieve certain reforms for his people before his coronation. Farah, first woman in Persian history to be crowned empress (or queen), was a commoner, studying architecture in Paris on a scholarship, before her marriage. In case of the Shah's death, she would rule Iran as regent until her son reached the age of twenty. Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain, opening Parliament in November 1967, followed the requirements of the British monarchy in reading a speech written by the Prime Minister, in this case Harold Wilson. The speech called for limiting the hereditary membership of the House of Lords, a body of 861 lords, all of whom do not have hereditary titles. Mary Sue Wilcox, a seventeen-year-old Latter-day Saint girl from Bountiful, Utah, honor student and cheer leader of her senior high school class, won the American championship title for rotler skating in August in Lincoln Nebraska. Competing later in Birmingham, England, for the world championship, she did not win but gave such a beautiful performance that Wide World of Sports photographed her entire exhibition for television. It was shown in America and in many other countries. Jerrie Cobb, famous aviatrix, has long waged a battle to have women included among America's astronauts. She and two hundred others have been rejected—not because of their sex, says the committee, but because they do not quite fulfill the scientific demands. 191 'ny wy a iy vy, he iy 2 Se whe se f 2 wy a 4 A i S Clg Wet WR CAN Ca "Ais ais "a ais sc aie iC se xe a A « é, ert Be q OMEMAKING DEPARTMENT x 7 Sa 2 Relief Society Annual General Conference a "8 2 September 27-28, 1967; ' tr ate ale sie Sie SNe Ae OM. Vy Vis VN AIS ON AY A Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Chairman, Homemaking Committee = Planning for the Homemaking Department of Relief Society General Conference is an exciting adventure, requiring days, weeks, and months of prayerful, thoughtful planning. Many visits are made to stakes and wards to view their special creative handiwork, to select practical, useful, and attractive, but not costly items, which will improve, beautify, and enrich the homes of Relief Society members in any part of the Church. Relief Society is an international organization, so ideas and items are selected which will be appropriate for many countries. It is the wish to use articles from many stakes in various areas of the Church, but distance, cost, and the availability of transportation have to be considered, and limit the selection. Because the homemaking discussions for 1967-68 were based on the rooms of the home, it was decided to present major displays in room-designated areas. The purpose was not just to show rooms, but rather to display homemaking articles which appropriately would be found in each room. We chose to call this part of our display "Rooms for Improvement." There were six room divisions: living room, dining area, bedroom, kitchen, bathroom, nursery, and patio. In addition, other displays with interesting demonstrations were presented. DISPLAY IN THE FOYER As one entered the beautiful Bonneville Stake House, where the display was held, one felt the spirit of Relief Society. The displays in the hall featured the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society. One's glance was drawn to the impressive seal over the cultural hall door, "Relief Society 1842-1967." On a large table, life-like sego lilies were attractively arranged around two wheels, denoting progress. Above this arrangement, white sea gulls were suspended. A spinning wheel, and a churn (which had been carefully carried across the plains, now attractively antiqued and hand-painted), graced the entrance hall. The pungent aroma of fresh sagebrush filled the air. 192 Sagebrush was placed with wheat to enhance the decorations. The blue of the sky on a clear day seemed transferred to the foyer by the - use of blue fabric attractively arranged. CHRISTMAS DISPLAY As you left the foyer, two choices were open to you, either to go into the cultural hall for an overall view of the displays, or to follow the beckoning lights into the lounge for the Christmas display. The Christmas display featured a tall, graceful Christmas tree in one corner near the fireplace, decorated with large multicolored balls and tiny lights circling the tree from trunk to top branch. An impressive star hung above the fireplace. This was flanked by three handmade Wise Men—beautifully and intricately made. Round tables were alternated against the wall with colonnades holding miniature Christmas trees, each individually and differently decorated. The tables were covered with green cloths of the same pattern—handmade articles of intriguing design graced them— suggestions for making in homemaking meetings, ideas to please the homemaker and beautify any home at Christmas time, including many toys and other articles to charm the children. Transparencies by J M. Heslop Jean Rigby, Sugarhouse Stake Geneva Brown, Holladay Stake Mary Jennings, Bonneville Stake One exquisitely beautiful object which drew exclamations of pleasure from the throng was a. Large, oval, gold-leafed picture frame. This encased. An_ elegant Christmas tree made entirely from old jewelry glued onto a velvet mounting. A stunning and unusual dining table decorated in purple, blue, and green also caught the eye. The purple felt cloth was elegant, yet simple to make. Yarn tassels graced the corners; green balls, each housing a single light, centered the table in an attractive arrangement. A group seemed always to surround the table where burlap Christmas wreaths were being made. Homemaking Committee General Board HANDKERCHIEF TREE—ANTIQUED ARTICLES Entering the cultural hall, gay and colorful flowers captured the interest—exquisite flowers created from pieces of paper. Rugs of many varieties hugged the east wall. Beautiful rugs made from old woolen clothing were a delight to behold. Children's rugs made in the shape of animals, charmed everyone. No one could resist taking a few minutes to watch and learn the art of antiquing or handpainting small articles, such as an old churn, an antiquated iron skillet, and a rocking chair. Many articles long ago discarded have thus been reclaimed and made beautiful. Many paused to admire the beautiful embroidered wall hanging made on a fine burlap and embroidered in wool yarn. The design was not original. The idea for it came from a picture in a magazine. It was composed of flowers and birds in gay colors—a work of art, yet something which can be copied by anyone who has magic in her hands. The gay sparkling lights of the handkerchief tree beckoned all to see the hankies with crocheted and lace edges. 195 Jean Rydatch, South Cottonwood Stake Alyce D Heneiiickson 'East anata Stake MORMON HANDICRAFT EXHIBIT The Mormon Handicraft display included exquisite handmade quilts, attractive, useful aprons, pillows, luncheon cloths, and afghans, with patterns and materials available to Relief Society organizations. Nettie Slotboom, Manager EASTER DISPLAY TABLE One of the loveliest displays was the Easter table, each article appropriate for theseason and especially designed to intrigue a child, and many of them suitable for a mother and her children to make together. Bunnies, chicks, Easter eggs, and a tray of colorfully decorated cookies centered the display. Homemaking hobbies for family togetherness brought many new and interesting ideas, including how to use pine cones, and acorns, to make small Christmas trees, making use of available materials such as flowers and weeds. Cache Stake ENCLOSURE CARDS Many of the gifts were items that children would love to make with a little guidance textile painting resembling embroidery work, and enclosure cards for all occasions, made from discarded and used cards, caught the interest of everyone. A simple process was illustrated, using small folded recipe cards decorated with motifs cut from cards and arranged to make a design. SG Mary Peterson, East Sharon Stake 196 from mother and daddy. New Tertsres s a ee French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society Presidency Elisa Sam You, President POLYNESIAN DISPLAY The highlight of this section was the Polynesian display—carried across the ocean in fourteen different suitcases. Assembled and displayed with artistic grace were bedspreads, wall hangings, purses, and jewelry of many kinds. The handiwork was colorful and intricate. OOMS FOR IMPROVEMENT All who attended the homemaking display "Rooms for Improvement" were delighted with the lovely home decorations, magnificent evidences of the ability of Relief Society women. Antiquing and gold leafing were predominant in the living-dining area. Old furniture, reclaimed and refinished to professional perfection, copies of beautiful paintings by the old masters, treated in a new manner, and decorative tablecloths caught the eye—a green velvet covering was enhanced by an exquisite low bowl, inexpensive, yet looking costly because of its gold leaf finish. An attractive lamp, completely handmade from its gold-leaf base to its hand-sewed shade, was much admired. Some of the most exciting articles were beautiful candles—done in somber hues. They enhanced the beauty of a candle by skillfully placing a copy of a great painting about the candle and making it appear as a part of the candle by 197 Monument Park Stake ___ Monument Park Stake — an additional coating of clear wax. The candle holders were also works of art, all handmade. The kitchen display had great-warmth and charm. Simulated cupboards were made from old wooden crates, covered with heavy cardboard, and painted to resemble fine wood. The Roman blind at the windows was created by the sisters themselves and will serve as a project for a stake. * 'South Cottonwood Stake Interesting to make and much less costly than purchased ones were wall plaques, table coverings, kitchen aprons, and tea towels of many varieties, which added greatly to the room's attractive decor. The bedroom combined new designs and furnishings with the old. The wardrobe was a gift to a bride some seventy-five years ago. The old brass bed was a family heirloom. The bench and night stand came from the Deseret Industries and were refinished and antiqued a beautiful blue. The trunk, found in an attic, was gold-leafed, varnished, and lined with velvet—a bride's dream. The beautiful bedspread was a work of art, hand- 199 =— at Parleys Stake Hillside Stake Bonneville Stake (Basketball Standards) Olympus Stake made by sisters of the stake. Quilted robes, gowns, and hangers were all handmade, a symphony in blue and green. What can one do for bathroom decorations? Was the query. Results were amazing. Shower curtain, drapes, bowl cover, were all hand done and attractive. All details were perfect, from decorated soaps, waste baskets, and wall decorations, to the flower-bordered mirrors and guest towels. This picture also gives a glimpse of the beautiful decorations used to camouflage the basketball standards—net covered pampas grass, plus an ornate bushel basket, uniquely fashioned creations long to be remembered. The nursery was a delight, all pink and white, and filled with priceless family relics. The little cradle was handmade. The chest belonged to a great-grandmother. It was refinished in white antiquing—a decorator's dream. Quilts and blankets made the bed and cradle inviting. Interesting animal wall plaques added charm to the room. Handmade blocks and Raggedy Ann dolls were ready for a child's eager hands. Dresses and sleepwear for the little ones made women want to try their hands at sewing for children. One child couldn't resist the inviting scene and was found lying in the cradle. The patio area was so inviting that visitors were sorry summer had gone. The handpainted backdrop view depicted an ocean scene. Summer furniture and equipment enhanced the display. Aprons, pot holders, gloves, gay tablecloths, table decorations invited the sisters to join in outdoor living. The patio items were of particular interest because they suggested many articles that could well be made for a summer bazaar. The centerpieces were made of bottles wrapped part way up with appropriate twine and used as candle holders—so easy to make, yet so attractive. Additional table lighting was provided by lamp holders made with cut tin cans forming a base with a glass chimney in the center. 201 AN OVERVIEW As one left the cultural hall and turned for a last long look at the overview, one was almost overwhelmed by its loveliness. The many tables decorated with ideas for social affairs, the fascinating displays by the Lamanite sisters, the beautiful pillows made from towels that looked like velvet, the lovely coordinated quilt display with robes, pillow cases, pillows; the apron tree; and the table of children's items, with a table centered by attractive jewelry displays, all gave one a feeling of pride in the women of the Church—their love of beauty, their great contribution in preparing hundreds of items for this homemaking display. Surely knowledge and intelligence, energy, skills, talents, and a desire for service have been given in abundance to the sisters of Relief Society. Where else in the world could one see anything like it?