[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 175 | Special Feature | Third Prize Story More Than a Game Sarah | Brown Neilson]
More Than a Game could tell by Frank's breathing that he, too, was awake. How her heart ached for his unspoken disappointment that could never be discussed. She reached for his hand, hoping he would sense the love and_ understanding she couldn't express. Everyone did the usual things next morning. Frank's face showed weariness and his shoulders drooped a little, but he patiently called the boys three times, took his exercises, and gave Tony first chance at the shower. Tony shined his shoes, brushed his hair and splashed on lotion —apparently it was a white shirt day. Johnny came out with dragging shoe laces and sleepswollen eyes just in time for family prayer. As Frank asked the Lord's blessings upon them, he expressed gratitude for their wonderful sons and made a special plea for Tony's safety and success in the championship game. Jane was glad the bacon needed turning as he finished, so the moisture around her eyes would go unnoticed. Like many other mornings, Tony was too late to walk and Frank rushed through his breakfast te be chauffeur. "Mom, what time are you picking me up for the game?" Johnny asked, as she dug in her purse for lunch money. "We won't be going today, Johnny, Dad has too much work at the office. Please try to understand." "Not go to the game! Mom, you're kidding! Tony can't play if Dad isn't there—he's always there. We have to go to the game! It's an important one. Tony'll never forgive us!" 

179 March 1968

 Jane bit her lip until it hurt. "Johnny, you're almost late, now please hurry. Just forget about the game for today." A dark look of confusion clouded Johnny's face. "But, Mom, we have to go—I'll be looking for you because I know Dad will come—he always comes —he wouldn't do that to Tony!" Jane hugged him almost too tight as he went out the door. His faith in Frank was heartwarming and she loved him for it. If only she could explain—but no—not to a ten-year-old. The huge basket of ironing looked almost inviting as Jane appraised her day's work. There was something about ironing that gave her a settled feeling. It was never a question of what came next. She knew what came next for a solid chunk of hours. She could sit in one place, enjoy a feeling of accomplishment, and do some thinking. But thinking today had only brought confusion and more heartache. As the mound of unironed clothes grew small and the pile of finished ones grew large, the battle to justify Tony's behavior within herself continued. A slamming door shattered her thoughts and announced Johnny's arrival from school. He was breathless and beads of perspiration marked his forehead. "Mom, you didn't come and the game has already started! I ran all the way from the bus stop! Can't we go without Dad— please? Tony will be looking for us. We have to go!" Jane looked into his anxious, freckled face and tried to sound convincing. "It's too late, dear, 180 and Tony will have fun telling us all about the game at dinner. He's never had a chance to do that because we've always been there. We won't even know who won and he can surprise us! Why don't you get washed and we'll make Tony's favorite cake for dinner. You can make the frosting!" It was a poor substitute for the game, but with Johnny's interest in running the electric mixer, Jane's loving persuasion won. Even with all the family favorites, Jane knew dinner would be difficult. Tony would try to tell them about the game, but without Frank's comments on every detail it would fall flat. Johnny's innocent remarks would create embarrassment, and she could already feel the strain of trying to pretend everything was fine. Frank arrived before Tony, sniffing the air and exclaiming about the joy of coming home to smells of cinnamon and brown sugar. "What a lucky boy you are to have a mother who makes such a wonderful home for us, Johnny. Look at the fresh ironed shirts and stack of clean clothes. Do you think she knows we love and appreciate her?" After twenty years of sharing sorrows and problems with Frank, Jane knew this was his way of trying to help her over the disappointment in Tony. How like him to care what she thought and felt. The game wasn't mentioned until they were sitting down to dinner and Tony opened the door. His flushed face and dark hair, still damp from the shower, made him painfully handsome. L eel e. "Who won! Who won! Did you make a touchdown? Did you win?" Johnny shouted as he grabbed Tony around the waist. There was a long silence, and then Tony led Johnny to the table and sat down beside him. In a very quiet voice, he said, "Yes, Johnny, we won. The score was eighteen to twelve, but I "lost! Oh, I made a touchdown all right—but I still lost. I realized what I had lost when the game started, and I didn't hear Dad's voice in the crowd—when I looked up and didn't see Mom's hand waving or you standing on More Than a Game the bench. Somehow, nothing else mattered but your being there—not the game, my friends, or winning. Oh, I kept playing and doing my best—Dad_ has taught me to do that automatically—but I realized I had sold you down the river for twisted pride and stupid values. Suddenly, I felt sorry for all the guys whose parents don't care about the games—who are too busy to come. All I wanted to do was come home and be with you." Johnny looked confused. "I told you Tony would be mad if we didn't go, Mom. You should have come home, Dad!"' Tony smiled. How like them to protect his standing with Johnny. "Mom—Dad—I'm sorry —can you ever forgive me? Please don't miss another game!" Jane looked into the faces that surrounded the table. Yes, it was more than a game, It was the light of realization, the warmth of understanding, and the cementing of family ties. Now, at last, the tears were spilling unchecked down her face—tears of joy! Through the mist she looked across the table and wondered if there could ever be anything more beautiful than the sight of a father hugging his teen-age son. Sarah Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, expresses appreciation for the short story contest: ''The Relief Society short story contest has opened a new horizon for me. 'More Than a Game' is my first attempt at writing, other than a short incident that was published making me eligible for the contest. I have always loved writing letters and often wondered if writing might be a hobby I could develop and enjoy. This opportunity has helped me to find it is. "I graduated with an English major from the Utah State University in Logan, and have had varied Church experience, holding seventeen different positions in the last twenty-five years. Currently, I am First Counselor in the Pasadena Stake Relief Society Presidency, and my husband, Keith, who has been a bishop, now serves on the High Council. We enjoy three wonderful children: Nancy, living in the San Francisco area while her husband, David Waldvogel, attends dental school; Bob, serving on a mission in England; and David, attending Pasadena High School."