FIRST PRIZE FOR MODERN QUILT
One Thousand Quilts
By Arthur M. Richardson
One Thousand Quilts! Did you ever see that many hanging from the same rack and awaiting your attention? That's the number there were at this year's Eastern States Exposition held in Springfield, Massachusetts. Quilts from every state in the Union except Nevada. There they hung. Just out of reach, but close enough to permit careful inspection. For the plain simplicity of geometrical design to those more gorgeously decorated, each bore its silent tribute to the deft fingers that created it. The prize winning quilts were hung on the first floor of the town hall in Storrowtown. This old New England village is the home of the "Home Department," which sponsors the quilt exhibit, and is a section of the fair grounds made up of a group of early New England buildings brought from their original settings and placed around a village green and appropriately furnished. Those quilts which received honorable mention together with all the others were in the Industrial Arts Building. One of the antique quilts exhibited by Mrs. Lucy Lust of Marion, Ohio, was a monument to ONE THOUSAND QUILTS 159 FIRST PRIZE FOR ANTIQUE QUILT patience and patriotism, containing 10,436 red, white, and blue pieces and 1600 yards of thread. It was 60 years old. This one received honorable mention. The cash award of $50.00 and a silver trophy, denoting first prize, in the antique group was taken by Mrs. John H. Smith, 40 Shepherd Street. Cambridge, Massachusetts. The charm of this quilt lies in its colors, softened by age: its close padded quilting; and its prim, quaint applique design. As can be seen from the illustration the date and name of maker of this antique prize winner are incorporated in the body of the quilting. It was made in 1854. The first prize for the modern quilts, $50.00 and silver trophy, was awarded to Clara T. Post, Tyndall, South Dakota. This quilt ranks highest in workmanship of any quilt in the contest. The conventional flower motif, which is developed in egg-shell color, lends itself to any favored pastel background. The 160 use of only two colors gives quietness and serenity. Quilt making is an art, and one with which many of the Relief Society members are familiar. It would certainly be nice to see a member of the Society receive recognition in next year's exhibit.