Young Mothers
By Holly Baxter Keddington
"In like a lamb; out like a lion.' Do you have a person in your home with a March disposition? Who is as fickle and changeable as March weather? He can be gentle and agreeable if everything goes his way and yet he will fly into a fury for almost no reason at all? This person invariably disrespects the rights of others: he fails to consider that it is "difference of opinion that makes the world go around." The sooner this fact is made part of his daily life the better for him and his associates. This explosiveness is more easily corrected in a child than in the adolescent or adult, therefore, if you have such a problem in your home, now and tomorrow and until you have succeeded is the time to teach this child self control, fairness and generosity. The March Social Service lesson is on "Socialized Conduct." Much can be learned by attending this class. It may be that your own problem will be discussed and the class leader will be very pleased if you find help. I know the satisfaction of a friend saying, "your lesson helped me so much; it seemed to be given just for me." Everyday Problems of the Every Day Child by Thom is a splendid reference for child behavior problems. Misunderstood children by Harrison is a book every parent should read. Again I suggest taking notes ?unless your memory serves you better than mine serves me.
I want you to meet the lowly ten-pound sugar sack and her relatives that contain corn meal and other cereals. A display of articles made by a busy, thrifty young mother was made entirely from such sacks. Baby's and Children's bibs, small slip aprons (made from two), child's dresser set, bed spread and quilt, dust cloths (made from the less desirable ones) covers for quilts and blankets for summer storing, baby pillows (with dimity and print hems), backs for print and voile pillows and last but far from least was a luncheon set (a boon to any mother of a small family), all of these made from good material that might ordinarily be thrown away. The luncheon set consisted of a center cloth the full size of the sack and place cloths for each place. All, were bound with bright orange binding and the youngsters had added a bit of bright embroidery. Have more place cloths than your need at once and if a child spills at his own place the whole cloth is not ruined and a fresh place cloth may be substituted. Your girl can learn to embroider and iron on this set of small pieces. All of these articles were well worth the binding and time put on them.
A man recently said of his wife, after many years of the struggle and stress of rearing a family, "I think I love my wife more for her ever-ready smile and her sense of humor than anything else?she's needed them too, I tell you."