[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MEETING held in the 14th Ward Nov.
16th, 1895, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing "Glorious
things of thee are spoken." Prayer by Sis-
ter M. W. Wilcox. Continued by singing
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Horne stated that our Secretary,
Sister Vilate Young had thought she would
be here today, but she must be detained,
and Sister Alder has consented to act a
little longer, when I trust Sister Young will
be back. Said she was pleased to be here
this lovely day. "We must be tried before
the Lord to see if we will stand. We must
embrace the truth for the love of it. Those
who serve God will have strength to over-
come trials. We must watch as well as
pray, and pray always. Read the counsels
of our Savior to His Apostles. We must
have these things always before us to re-
mind us of Him. I hope you will employ
the time and bear your testimony if only a
few words spoken in weakness. President
Brigham Young told us to get up parties in
this Hall as nothing had ever desecrated it.
Let us thank God for His blessings which
He has poured out upon us.”
	Sister Barrow spoke of the efficacy of prayer
and administrations of the Priesthood. Sis-
ters sang "Redeemer of Israel.” Sister
Fame said she knew this was the work of
God. Felt to rejoice in the work. I honor
my father and my mother for they have
taught us good principles.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was happy to be
here. "The sisters that come to this meeting
are the wheat. Here they learn such good
things. I love to come here, yet I enjoy
the work in the Temple most. Our religion
is first in our thoughts. I feel this is a
choice house, I have had very happy hours
here and some sad ones. I do not think
the Savior will come until pestilence and
famine passes over the earth.”
	Sister Robinson said I know that the
angels are here. When I go into the
house of the Lord, I feel that we leave all
the cares of this world behind us, I know
that this is the work of God. Made other
encouraging remarks.
	Sisters sang, "The trials of the present
day, require the Saints to watch and pray.”
	Sister Morris, said she had been away for
a while, but her heart is always here, had
been in this church for forty years, and "I
pray that I may be faithful, also that we
may be more united. May we endure to
the end.”
	Sister Larson, "I feel the sweet influences
of the Holy Spirit here. I wish to give
glory unto God, look forward for the re-
ward of the faithful. I do not want to
look backward, may we be true to our God
and to one another.”
	Sisters sang, "Let us pray gladly pray.”
	A sister in the congregation felt grateful
to her Heavenly Father for the many bless-
ings bestowed upon her. If we have faith
in the Lord we will have the blessings,”

[Column 2]
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, "I do not
think I ever bore my testimony to the truth
of this work publicly. But I feel to say
that this is the work of the Lord. If we
have trials or sickness, if we will call upon
the Lord for a blessing we will get it.”
	A sister in the congregation said she knew
that the promise of the Lord was sure, if
we bear our testimony that this is the work
of God.
	Sister Forsythe, "I feel that we must be-
come as one, so that the Lord will own us
as His.”
	Sister Hardy said she tried to serve the
Lord. "We are making a record every
day, I hope it will be a bright one. We
should trust each other. We must be hum-
ble unto the end.”
	Sister Nuttall said she feared to stand and
speak of the Lord. Had been promised
better health if she would stand and bear
testimony. Said the spirit of the Lord
was here. "I always feel to praise God
and glorify His holy name.”
	Sister Reed, "I know that the spirit of
the Lord is here, I want to live and serve the
Lord.”
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that she had been faithful unto
this day and desired to press onward day by
day.
	Sister Nunn, "I rejoice to be here today,
and I feel better than when I came here.
May we put our trust in God and serve
Him.”
	Another sister said she was thankful for
the many instructions she received in these
meetings, and desired to acknowledge, the
hand of God in all her trials.
	Sister Waterfall said she felt that Satan
was on the path, may we live faithful and
be able to come to these meetings, said she
suffered with her heart, but I know our
Father comforts us in our trouble. Told of
a vision she had. Would to God that we
might see eye to eye and be one.
	Sisters sang, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—"I feel to rejoice
in all that has been spoken today. I never
had a greater desire than I have today to
serve God, we need power from on high to
live in this day.” Spoke of a wonderful
manisfestation given to her. Said the
name, date of birth and death, was given
to her, also related a dream she had.
	Sister Sarah Phelps, spoke in the gift of
tongues. Interpretation given by Sister
Paul.
	Sister McMaster said her health had not
been good, "I have only the Gospel of
Jesus Christ to live for. I have never
doubted this Latter-day work.”
	Sister Mary Mair, "I must bear my
testimony of the truth of this Gospel.
May the Lord bless us and keep us humble.
Closing remarks by President Mrs. Horne,
announced that our stake conference would
convene four weeks from today. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Closed by sing-
ing, "Mid scenes of confusion.” Benedic-
tion by Julia Howe.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
