[Vol15 | March 1928 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Aleppo Branch, Syria: A most interesting letter has just been received from Mrs Mary R. Booth, president of the Aleppo Branch Relief Society.

Accompanying the letter is an excellent report and a photograph RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, ALEPPO BRANCH, SYRIA of the officers.

Mrs. Booth states that this picture was taken in front of the stage curtain upon which is painted the Hill Cumorah, and which was used for the drama played by their local talent on September 22, 1927, in commemoration of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon President James E. Talmage, who has just returned from the European Mission, where he has served as president for the past three years, has, by request, furnished us with the following few paragraphs concerning the work of President and Mrs. Joseph W. Booth: "In far away Syria, on one of the hills of Aleppo, is a little community of Latter-day Saints who constitute the main branch of the Armenian Mission.

They were brought to this place from Aintab, Turkey, to escape the frightfulness of Turkish misrule, tyranny, and outrageous persecution.

These and a few who are isolated in other towns number about one hundred and eighty-five NOTES FROM THE FIELD 157 souls, all of whom are refugees or children of refugees.

With few exceptions these people are housed in khans, or walled enclosures with living rooms along three sides of the quadrangular open court; and these quarters are rented for them by the Church.

"Many of these good people are skilled in the making of rugs, carpets, toweling, cloth, embroidery and fine needlework, which constitute their principal products; but they have to meet keen competition and find but a limited market.

Moreover, machinery is displacing the hand-looms and prices are low.

"In the matter of Church training the community is a marvel and stands as a monument of praise to Mission President Joseph W. Booth, and his capable wife, Sister Mary R. Booth, whose home town is Alpine, Utah.

In the work of the Church auxiliaries the people show ability such as would be creditable in the wards of Zion.

A Book of Mormon drama, written and staged by the members, was presented in a very impressive and artistic way during a recent visit by the writer of these lines; and the appreciative audience comprised business and professional people of Aleppo in addition to the Church members.

"President Joseph W. Booth has given seventeen years of his life to missionary service in Turkey and Syria.

His wife has shared the labors and vicissitudes of two long missionary periods with him.

He has endured the ordeal of black smallpox, as a result of which dread disease two of our missionaries have been buried, one at Aaintab, Turkey, the other at Haifa, Palestine.

President Booth has been a true pastor to these people, who verily have come up through great tribulation.

He has proved himself a tender and selfsacrificing shepherd to the harassed flock; and he loves his sheep.

Brother and Sister Booth have the confidence and respect of bankers, professional men, consular officers, and of the influential people of the communities wherein they are known, not only in Aleppo, but in other Syrian towns as well.

For years past these devoted servants have been the only missionaries laboring among the Armenians.

They confidently hope that the work will be extended into southern Syria and Palestine, and that other missionaries will be sent to assist." French Mission: Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, president of the Relief Societies of the French mission, with headquarters at Geneva, Switzerland, writes, among other things, that the Relief Society work is progressing nicely throughout the mission.

Two new societies were organized during the past year, one at Besancon, France, and the other at Brussels, Belgium.

All of the societies have held one or more bazaars during the year.

Several of them have bought linen and silver sacramental sets, and are helping to pay for pianos in their respective branches.

All cases of need coming to the attention 
 of the Relief Society have been amply taken care of during the year.

Southern States Mission.

Relief Society women of the Southern States have, during the past year, furnished food and clothing to many who were in need.

Special efforts have been made by them to have the sick properly cared for either in the homes or in hospitals.

The result has been that special visits to the sick and home-bound have increased 1,454 over last year.
