[Vol15 | March 1928 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Unto the Least of These]
"Unto the Least of These"' By Frank C. Steele Martha Claydon stood in the door of the cottage watching the sun rise.

For years she had snatched this cool, tranquil hour for herself.

The Claydon family in the cottage, and the scores of other mill people in the cottages croweded along Montgomery street, still slept.

The early morning stillness brooded over that long row of white and green, four-room houses, their east windows reflecting the rose-blazoned horizon.

Far down the avenue intersecting Montgomery street, a street car rumbled, the first tram to make its appearance after the few fitful hours of traffic idleness between one and five o'clock.

Back on the farm in Dodge county, long before the Claydons moved to Atlanta, Martha was always the first out of bed and first in the sweet-smelling pine woods.

The sight of the sun, poised in its glory against the dew-cleansed sky, its light piercing the dense foliage and making the leaves and flowers sparkle like gems, was a constant inspiration to her.

Unuttered dreams and longings it aroused, vague and fearful at first, later more sure and distinct.

Martha reflected then and she reflected now: "This great sun brings to us each succeeding day a new birth with new opportunities and hopes.

Henry, in there sleeping, doesn't know it.

But it has come to me and I am thankful?this knowledge, this Voice whispering comfort and encouragement and an assurance of that Light which will some day come to me and mine, that Light and Peace which passeth all understanding." It was in the days of her young womanhood that Martha first heard that 'Peace of God which passeth all understanding." It was a precious hope dropped by a traveling preacher in Dodge county during a street meeting in the county seat.

To Martha the simple message of this earnest, young man of God, was a revelation.

She had clung to his promise like the shipwrecked mariner clings to a bit of driftwood.

Peace!

Martha had found little of it.

Her wan face, old beyond its years, her hands, peeled and rough, her body worn by toil in the mill and the exacting duties of the family and home?these combined to tell the story of Martha Claydon.

And yet there was a part of Martha that was not broken.

This was her spirit and her spirit had never wavered.

"T must cling to you, sun, for you keep the hope burning," mumbled Martha, standing in the doorway, her fingers clutching the door, her face encircled in a halo of sunlight.

"UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 143 The waking world aroused her from her reverie.

The sun was now a flaming ball far across the mass of roofs and chimneys and spires.

A deep, hoarse whistle blew somewhere behind Montgomery street.

Martha cast a last, longing look into the blue sky.

Her hour was over.

Like a mantle the spiritual dropped from her.

She was now Martha Claydon, factory woman and wife and mother to those who loved her in their own way, but who did not, could not, understand.

Martha, quietly and mechanically, lit the cordwood in the kitchen stove, made the coffee, mixed the biscuit and placed it in the oven, covered the bottom of a frying pan with slices of bacon and filled a glass pitcher with cane syrup.

"Henry, get up, breakfast's nearly ready.

Call Eva May, Sarah Jane and Wilbur.

And Henry, please don't keep the food waiting.

Get up now and wash." Minutes later the Claydons surrounded the white kitchen table bolting hot biscuit, black coffee and odorous shreds of pork.

Their breakfast fare never changed.

Martha had once tried to vary it in conformity to a schedule she read in the Sunday paper, but Henry had grumbled about "these new-fangled notions about eating" being expensive and not intended for mill folk.

Martha never ventured to experiment again.

The family ate in silence until Wilbur revived an old subject by saying: ''Ma's bin at it again, pa.

She's bin lookin' at the sun?I kin tell by the look in her eyes." "Yes, I know, and you needn't be tellin' me, and Martha, you all need that extra hour's sleep and there you go wastin' it lookin' at the sun as though you were?well?a leetle bit? queer." "Go on, pa, I'm used to it." "Ma, be reasonable," rejoined the son, as he helped himself to another slice of bacon; "you're agettin' on in years and pa wants you to take life as easy as you kin.

Instead, you git up to meet the sun.

Gee, the sun to me means work, a heap o' work, six days in the week, fifty-two weeks in the year." '""My son, the sun to your mother means hope." There was a laugh.

"Hope o' what, ma?" "Of deliverance." The rest of the Claydons dumbly surveyed the mother.

Henry found words at last: "Ma, these notions are doin' yer no good.

We're poor folk, ma, don't forgit that.

God intended fer us to be poor.

He loves the poor?" "Yes, pa, God loves the poor, perhaps, but he doesn't love poverty.

He doesn't love to see His children live like beasts.

He wants them to be free.

Free, pa, not from honest work?I guess 
 I've done my share of that and I'm proud of it?but free from poverty, pa, poverty of body, of mind, of soul." Martha's face wore a suggestion of the warmth her heart felt as she tried to make them understand?understand just a little.

"Ma, it sorta hurts to hear yer talk like that.

Don't I want yer to go to the movies on Saturdays and to church??" "Yes, Henry, you do the best you can for us.

I'm not complaining.

But I dislike the movies we get out here, pa, you know that, and the church?well, does the church give us poor folks very much to tie to?" "Rev. Chappell is a powerful preacher, Martha, and it's the old time preachin' we git, not the new stuff, they say they are handin' out in the Tabernacle every Sunday.

I guess Bethel Baptist church is good enough fer me, Martha." "It won't be, pa, when the Light comes.

And it's going to come, Henry, it's going to come." "Ma, hush; yer goin'?" "Shut up, Wilbur Claydon.

Ma's all right and don't you get smart," cried Eva May, savagely, drowning the rasping tones of her brother.

"Eva May's right, Wilbur.

This isn't yer affair," said the father, turning to the youth, putting on his cap to leave.

Then: "But, ma, folks are atalkin'." Martha made ne reply.

Soon after Henry's parting suggestion the Claydon house was still.

The blinds were drawn.

The older members of the family, including the mother, were at their places in the mill.

The younger ones soon would depart for the neighborhood school and Montgomery street would drowse through the long, sultry hours of the July day.

Miles across the city on Fair street, later the same day, two young ladies were hastily removing hats and gloves in an effort to find relief from the pitiless heat.

"Sister Fairley, this has been such a hard, wearisome day," one of the missionaries?for missionaries they were, an attractive girl just entering her twenties, cried languidly as she dropped into an easy chair and reached for a glass of water.

"You know I have been wondering seriously today whether our work is worthwhile, whether or not we are doing any good." "Why, Sister Elliott, you must combat that spirit.

Try hard not to be discouraged, I know many of the people we call on are indifferent, some are even rude, and the weather is hot." "Hot, hot?I should say it is hot!

Really, Sister Fairley, I was on the verge of fainting several times while tracting Montgomery street.

The sun beat down on those bare, little cottages in fiendish glee.

Talk about misery!

The houses I entered "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 145 were like ovens, kiddies crying, mothers at the mill?O, it was awful." "You paint a vivid picture, Sister Elliott, and a true one.

But remember, these poor folk have souls, they are our Father's children and entitled to the blessings of salvation through the gospel.

There are thousands of honest, splendid souls among them," replied the senior missionary, earnestly.

"They care nothing for our message.

Poverty has killed every spark of interest in anything higher than their own simple, colorless life.
