
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1894. No. 1.


CONTENTS:

	In Rural England—A Story. A Fireside Talk
With My Sisters—J. P. M. Farnsworth. The Old
Temple Wall—An Old Timer. R. S. Reports
Utah and Bear Lake Stakes. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Florida
Letter—Ella C. Chamberlain. A Golden Wed-
ding—E. S. Goldsbrough. Woman Suffrage
Column.
	EDITORIAL:—Temple Excursion.
	POETRY:—June Roses—Ellen Jakeman. The
Fourth Of July—E. B. W. The Baby.


JUNE ROSES.

TO E. B. W.

I BROUGHT you roses whose lush sweetness holds,
The passionate love, and languid bliss of June,
And ’midst their petals you will find enthralled
The shimmering laces of the waning moon;
Elusive, vague, and subtle as perfume.

Deep in their hearts the sun’s warm kisses glow,
As bright as warp and woof of happy dreams,
And dewy freshness of the air that blows
Across the foaming crystal of our streams,
So light the fragrance of their faint breath
seems.

But you are absent, and such beauty fades,
Time steals it, as it stole your youth and mine,
But all the thorns will be here sharp and thick,
As we still taste the dregs of that bright wine
Whose first full flagon was almost divine.
ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXIX.

	ALTHOUGH Dr. Bland had fully identified
himself with the Puritan people after com-
ing to America he had not connected him-
self with the Church, nor did he altogether
subscribe to the narrowness of some of
their doctrines in detail, though he was in
harmony with the broadest views they
entertained of religious liberty and toler-
ance. Young Barrington was very much
modified by his association with Dr. Bland,
and while Lady Anna Walton and Mrs.
Bland accepted the religious faith he rep-
resented as a whole, yet there had been
views and opinion, rites and observances to
which they could not consistently conform,
and so they stood without the pale of the
Church strictly speaking. Yet Mr. Barring-
ton perhaps enjoyed the society of these
refined and highly cultivated people, more
than of those to whom he was more closely
allied inside his own Church. In himself
this young minister was far above the
ordinary standard of his followers and was
most exemplary in his life, as indeed all
great teachers of the divine must be, if
they expect to lead; but he was also supe-
rior in many respects to his brethren in the
ministry, and who entertained some jealous-
ies on account of his intimacy with these
grand people, as the Walton’s and Bland’s
were designated, by the little colony of
Puritans. While Dr. Bland lived, these

[Column 2]
feelings had never become apparent, except
in whisperings here and there, but the
sparks that were smoldering were fanned to
a blaze during the winter following the
Doctor’s death. ‘‘Why should our minister
be so much with the widow;” was a
question frequently repeated with various
answers by his friends, his followers. Some
would say, ‘‘he wants to marry her, he
ought to have a wife like that, she could
help him so much.” Others again declared
he was not a consistent minister of the
Puritan faith and would doubtless soon
show his sympathy with the Church of
England” which these Puritanical peo-
ple hated.
	Meantime Mr. Barrington began to feel
that his congregation was falling off, and
that there was not the same zeal and re-
ligious fervor manifested as at first, in fact
that he was losing ground, and by and
bye, his former devoted friends began to
remonstrate with him about the course he
was taking, and when he protested his in-
nocence and resented any interferance,
actually accused him of the slanders circula-
ted about him, and of which up to this
time he had been in total ignorance.
	It was as if a thunderbolt had exploded
over his head; he was quite alone, hitherto
he had felt no need of home, or any one to
lean upon; his zeal for the cause to which
he had determined to devote his life, his
sublime faith in God, and the truths of the
Scriptures as interpreted to his understand-
ing, had been sufficient for his daily need.
He was a Biblical student, and a devont,
and prayerful man. That he had faults
and weaknesses he knew, yet his conscience
had not accused him of wrong motives in
visiting so frequently at the houses of great
people. Now he was accused of pride, of
neglect of ministerial duties to his own
flock, and of all sorts of sinister motives.
He was a man of the most sensitive nature,
and having been so much looked up to,
naturally enough he was at a loss to know
what was best to do. And when a few
days went by and he made no concessions
from the pulpit, he was informed by the
good Deacon, that unless he could defend
himself against these accusations (that had
increased rapidly in a few days) he would
be dismissed from the position he held, or
asked to explain his conduct to those
ministers with whom he exchanged pulpits;
for said the Deacon, “Your course is not
approved by those men, more than by us
who have been watching you ever since
Lord Walton accused you of being in love
with his wife, and bewitching her fancy;
and indeed we are not so sure that you are
not in league with the devil, with all your
pride, or with the abhored Church, which
we have denounced as full of abominations
enslaving men’s consciences.” The Deacon
apparently thinking the Church he detested
and the devil were one and the same.
	Mr. Barrington listened like one in a
trance, he was stunned, and could scarcely
believe this man whom he had esteemed a
wise counselor and true brother could hurl
forth such burning words and with such
cruel scorn in his tones and manner. With

[Column 3]
the native dignity and quite peacefulness
he had ever sought to exercise in every try-
ing hour he replied. “Deacon Meredith I
am indeed greatly pained that you should
believe such shocking things of one to
whom you pledged fidelity and support
when we left our native land together, but
if you are so firm in your convictions of my
lack of loyalty to the faith I hold dearer
than my own life, and if my denial will not
convince you of my sincerity and the truth
of what I say, then you, and those for
whom I have labored with the purest of
motives for their ultimate good and the
salvation of souls, must deal with me as
shall be decided according to the standard
from which you and they judge. The
Deacon was somewhat softened by the
minister’s answer, and held out his hand
saying “I fear I have been harsh, but the
people must be satisfied, and you alone can
do it, explain to them your conduct, which
looks so inconsistent with your profession;
why are you always at the widow’s, has
she greater need than all your own devoted
followers? If she was indeed a Chrstian
she would not approve of your neglect of
duty.”
	By this time the young minister was in
tears, he had felt the great need Mrs. Bland
had of some one to advise and counsel her,
had he been selfish, he asked himself, if so
he would make what reparation was
possible, he inwardly thought. He turned
to the good old Deacon for whom he had
always had a true friendship and brotherly
feeling of confidence, and said, “Deacon
Meredith you know me better than any
one else on this side the water, will you,
can you possibly, stand up before the
congregation of the ministers, or
the people, or both, in a public
assembly and say you believe me guilty of
these things, or of heresy of any nature
whatever, if you can then my case is al-
ready decided without further questioning?
	The Deacon was taken by surprise at
this speech of Barrington’s and his better
nature prevailed. He was silent for a
moment while he held the hand of his
young friend clasped firmly in his grasp—
“Speech is silver” he said, but “silence is
golden.” I will not be thine accuser, but
will defend you for I believe in your in-
nocence of any intended wrong.”
	“Then come with me to Mrs. Bland,”
said the young man and let us speak to her
of what must most likely reach her through
others sooner or later, possibly the servants
of her household.”
	“This evening I will accompany you
with my wife, for Mrs. Bland might feel
much embarrassed were no women present
at such an interview.” Thanking the Dea-
con for the suggestion that his wife should
be one of the party, and feeling the utmost
need of retirement to regain self-possession
and to seek the Lord in prayer—he walked
rapidly towards his lodgings, some dis-
tance away, by a by-path, and as he went
forward many conflicting thoughts flitted
through his mind. “Was he sure of him-
self? What was this indefinable longing
that had drawn him towards Mrs. Bland


[Column 1]
and her cousin from the first time of meet-
ing them on board the ship.” He could
not solve the question to his own satisfac-
tion, and the great pines crackled and
swayed in the wind, as though speaking to
him of the unseen, and the salt sea breeze
came strongly wafted upon the air, and as
he listened closely he heard the sound of
the roaring, turbulent waters in the dis-
tance, and the sun was just setting in the
Western sky of which he caught a glimmer-
ing view between the pines. He had never
felt the solemnity of nature so keenly as he
did at this moment, his soul was subdued
in meditation, yet sensitive to all pervading
outside influences. His thoughts reverted
to the green fields of his own country, the
quiet peacefulness he had often felt when a
boy as he wandered alone through the
sweet smelling meadows, with hedges of
luxuriant foliage, which had seemed so
strikingly beautiful, and yet in his heart he
had realized a longing for something wilder
and grander, something which would lift
him to sublimer heights; now he had at-
tained to some of the aspirations his spirit
had yearned for, he had no more the peace-
ful green fields and the flowering hedges,
with the calm and restfulness such scenes
inspire, but the wild and grand sublimity
of immense forests and the great tumultuous
roar of ocean to listen to and to gaze out
upon with admiration and wonder; and yet
above all he reflected, here as well as there,
the same heaven was shining above all the
world. And his mother, could she look
down upon her boy (for she was his ideal of
perfection in woman) and the thought of
her so long dead came like the rushing of a
river over him, and all at once he felt as
though she were by his side, as if he felt
the touch of her soft, gentle hand upon his
forehead caressing him, and peace entered
his soul, and he could fancy he heard the
rustle of the soft folds of her silken gown,
but in a moment it was gone, and he
realized only the roar of the sea and the
raging of the wind, but he was calmer in
his spirit. He bowed down in the lonely
forest, for he had strayed far from the path
to his dwelling, and poured forth a fervent
prayer for safety, for deliverance from evil,
from the snares of his enemies. Then he
wended his way in the direction of the
humble cabin, where he knew not if he
should be welcome, or whether, his hostess
too had listened to the poisoned darts of the
slanderer. He opened the door as was his
custom, and Mrs. Austin met him him with
an anxious countenance, “husband and I
thought something must have happened,
you are very late, supper has been waiting
for hours, what is the matter? Surely you
have a chill, the cold wind has numbed you,
you are pale and trembling, here take some
tea, sit down in this warm corner by the
fire, let me rub your hands; father,” (call-
ing to her husband) but by this time Mr.
Barrington interrupted her saying, “there
is no need of alarm. I am not ill, a little
cold and coming into the warm room and
seeing your kindly face almost overcame
me, the wind is very high, and the sea roars
frightfully, I hope all is well with the
cottagers this is a hard winter for the
poor.” Hearing this Mr. Austin replied
that he had been to visit several during the
day, who were in need of comforts, and
added “Patience and I were just saying be-
fore you came, we would ask you to say to
Mrs. Bland, would she help some of them
to whom the Doctor gave in times of need,
for they miss him mightily.” “Yes Mr.

[Column 2]
Barrington, John and I were talking of it
and saying it would do Mrs. Bland good to
hear some of these folks praising her hus-
band and telling her he had saved them
from want in sickness and in times of
scarcity.”
	“I am sure Mrs. Bland will help any one
you recommend and as I am to see her this
evening I will take your orders for what
is wanted, or will you call yourself my
good woman and explain the circumstances.
“But Mr. Barrington you must not go out
again tonight, such a dreadful gale is blow-
ing and the snow is falling too now I see,”
and Mrs. Austin looked out of the window,
“you cannot risk your health like that you
are not strong, John,” (she said appealing
to her husband, as she saw Mr. Barrington’s
earnest look of determination,”) don’t con-
sent to the visit to Mrs. Bland tonight.”
The good man thus entreated, said to his wife
“if he must go then after supper I will har-
ness up old Betty, and we will drive over
and you can go along Patience well wrapped
up, ’twill do you good and be a nice
change.”
	The minister knew not what to say,
what would Deacon Meredith and his wife
think, and in fact did John Austin and his
good wife know that the gossips were busy
with his good name, ought he to tell them,
no why should he, he would leave all, to
work itself out, he felt some assurance he
knew not why that he was guided, yet he
was reluctant to have these good and true
frieuds hear these scandals, if they had not
been previously informed. For a moment
he felt like a coward, then his moral heroism
conquered and he decided to submit to the
situation. Supper over he prepared him-
self for the drive, and though his heart beat
more rapidly, and his pulse quickened, he
felt that once in the open air he should
regain self-control.
	When John Austin drove up to the
house, he exclaimed, “why hang it all
here’s Deacon Meredith’s sleigh, if I’d
a known he was here, old Betty should
have stayed in the barn, I’m not fond of
the way the Deacon talks nowadays, in-
sinuatingly, and I’ve told him a time or
two to speak out and not go beatin about
the bush, I don’t care to come in contact
with him in a strange house, he’ll provoke
me to sayin something.” Mr. Barrington
kept silence—“aren't you goin to let us get
out;” said his wife, but just then “the
hired man” as Josiah the Doctor’s faithful
old butler called himself in this free country,
came out, took old Betty by the rein, and
the sleigh was soon unloaded.
	Ushered into Mrs. Bland’s drawing-room
after laying off their wraps and shaking off
the snow, there sat Deacon Meredith and
his wife complacently looking at the fire,
and Mrs. Bland’s quick glance observing
something unusual in the face of her young
friend, the minister, in whom she felt the
deepest interest was scarcely able to go
through the usual formalities always
punctiliously observed by well-bred people.
	A silence almost unbroken fell upon the
company, after they had exchanged greet-
ings and were seated, Mr. Barrington felt
his heart beat so loudly he feared it might
be noticed, then Deacon Meredith unable
longer to maintain control of his feelings
said, “I know why I’m here Madame Bland
though I came without your invitation
but I didn’t expect to see John and Patience
Austin.”
	“There’s no need of any apology for
them” said Mrs. Bland, “they are always

[Column 3]
welcome, and so are you all, and I am very
glad to see you, and hope you will have a
pleasant evening. I’ve been thinking how
selfish I have been of late shutting myself
away from all social life since my great
bereavement, and was only waiting for
more favorable weather to send out for some
of my neighbors to come and visit me in
a quiet sort of fashion, and I have also
thought much of the poor in whom the
Doctor interested himself so much, and felt
how they must miss him.’ Here was
Patience Austin’s opportunity, “I’m so
glad Mrs. Bland you’ve spoken like that
for that’s just why I’ve come out on a
stormy night like this to see you—you know
our young minister was bent on comin and
he’s not fit to walk so far, an in the storm,
and I wanted him to stop in, and John had
been out lookin after the wants of some of
the poor folks, and we’d been talkin about
some help for em and made up our minds
to tell Mr. Barrington to ask you for some
things, as we know the Doctor used to give
last winter, and when we found Mr Bar-
rington determined to come through the
snow and wind, John said he’d harness up
and I should come too and tell you myself
all about it, so that’s why we’re here, and
we know why we’ve come as well as the
Deacon does.” So here was a pill for Dea-
con Meredith to swallow; but Mrs. Bland
was ill at ease, she felt something must be
wrong from the minister’s strange look.
Patience Austin proceeded to explain some
needs of the poor and Mrs. Bland assured
her the help should be furnished and that
John and herself should distribute accord-
ing to their own discretion. All this time
Mr. Barrington sat silent, finally he noticed
Lady Anna’s harp in the corner of the
drawing room, and without asking per-
mission he uncovered the instrument and
struck some minor chords, the tone was like
magic in the hearts of all present. It was
like a harp divine, as unexpected as the
visit of angels, in fact these simple Puritans
had never heard a harp before, and it moved
them more than the eloquence of the great-
est preacher they had ever listened to, and
that was a great deal, and as the young
musician played on and on from some of
the great masters, every one in the room
was moved to tears, by emotions of tender
feeling that no language could express, and
Barrington had conquered without a word,
and the council of ministers was never
called. Refreshments were brought in and
while the Deacon and John Austin partook
of the bounteous hospitality of the hostess
of the house, and drank to her health, of
the excellent old wine brought from over
the sea, they forgot all their grievances,
and shook hands at parting, with the same
brotherly love that had formerly been their
custom when any occasion brought them
together. And the young minister drove
home with his friends, in fact he guided the
horse and unharnessed it, for the wine
had told upon John Austin, who was not
accustomed to taking anything strong, and
he was half asleep ere they reached the
little cabin in the woods. Deacon Mere-
dith’s wife afterwards told Patience Austin
(in confidence) that the Deacon was far
from sober, and so excited that she thought
he had lost his wits; however he was all
right again in the morning.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE finest nature, like the truest mind,
must be tempered in the hottest furnace.—
Whyte Melville.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FOURTH OF JULY.

A HUNDRED years, or more, so long ago,
That neither we, or any of us know—
Save what we’re told in histories pages,
Or is handed down thro’ patriotic sages,
Upon this day made great by song and story
Our brave forefathers in heroic glory,
Proclaimed the Declaration which has made.
Our country free, and foreign powers afraid.
That Declaration signed by famous men
Is our Escutcheon, blazoned with a pen
In letters riven deep, whose meaning glows
In ev’ry heart where love of freedom flows.
And we are glad to celebrate today
That anniversary and our homage pay
To fair Columbia, and the flag so grand.
Which floats today throughout this favored land.
This land of Liberty so dearly bought,
When for their rights our brave forefathers fought
That we their children, and others who might
	come,
To find in this broad land a happy home,
Might all enjoy the freedom God has given,
To all mankind to worship Him in heaven
As seemeth good, no matter what the creed
For ev’ry one best knoweth his own need.
And ever since where’er the flag is found,
On this proud day the people gather round,
And beat the drums, and martial music play, 
And march triumphantly, the grand highway,
With flags and banners floating in the air,
And joyous shouts resounding everywhere,
While of Columbia’s fame the people sing
Until the echoes through the welkin ring.
The stars and stripes are hailed with great
	applause.
The simple heraldry of Freedom’s cause,
Long may they wave, we love these symbols pure,
While peace and plenty make our homes secure,
And the fair goddess who presides o’er all
Sweet Liberty, O, may she never fall
From that high pedestal, but ever stand
The guardian angel of this far-fam’d land.
Within these peaceful vales far in the West,
Guarded by sentinels with snow-white crest,
Are sons and daughters who the truth revere
Born heirs to liberty, who know no fear,
They are the offspring of those noble sires
Whose Pilgrim fathers kindled Freedom fires
Far in the East, they lit the sacred shrine,
And lo! its glory in the West doth shine.
And on this glorious day we celebrate
The Independence which has made us great,
With gratitude to God our bosoms swell,
We know Our Father doeth all things well;
And He our country’s honor will defend,
He is the God of battles, and the Friend
Of those, who trust in His Almighty care,
And victory giveth so His words declare.
And we acknowledge His all powerful hand
Is over all in this and ev’ry land;
And while we yield obedience to His laws
He will protect us and uphold our cause;
Will give us peace, and homes wherein to dwell
He is the God who favors Israel;
So let us live we can the blessings claim,
Which He has promised us thro’ Jesus name,
June, 29, 1894. E.B.W.


THE BABY.

WHERE did you come from, baby dear?
Out of the everywhere into here.
Where did you get your eyes of blue?
Out of the sky as I came through.
What makes the light of them sparkle and spin?
Some of the starry spikes left in.


Where did you get that little tear?
I found it waiting when I got here.
What makes your forehead so smooth and high?
A soft hand stroked it as I went by.
What makes your cheeks like a warm, white rose?
I saw something better than anyone knows.
Whence that three cornered smile of bliss?
The angels gave me at once a kiss.
Where did you get this pearly ear?
God spoke, and it came out to hear.
Where did you get those arms and hands?
Love made itself into hooks and hands.
Feet, whence did you come, you darling things?
From the same box as the cherubs wings.
How did they all just come to you?
God thought about me, and so I grew.
But how did you come to us, you dear?
God thought about you, and so I am here.
	When six months old to baby Julia, from
President Brigham Young. Beaver, 1875.
	AT the suggestion of two of President
Young’s wives, we send the following
pretty little poem to the EXPONENT for
publication, believing it will be appreciated
by all young mothers, who read our paper,
as it was a selection of our Honored
President, presented to our first baby
daughter by him, when she was six months
old, in the year 1878 at Beaver, Utah.


[Column 1]
A FIRESIDE TALK WITH MY
	SISTERS.
	SURROUNDING circumstances, every
day occurrences and present conditions in
society have called forth, and aroused dor-
mant sentiments which have for the past
number of years remained expressionless
in my own home circle, but which ever
since I have been old enough to think and
reflect for myself, I have most strongly
supported which as wife and mother, I can
plainly see the necessity for adoption and
advocacy in our communities, as Latter-day
Saints, as true women, and refined modest
sisters of humanity.
	Why is it that among our intelligent
gentlewomen, so many employ and prefer
men, as Physicians, instead of those of
our own sex? Not only in contagious
diseases but obstetrics and as doctors for
their babies in all infantile troubles, every
trivial ailment, children are subjects for
medical treatment and advise. Well says
one lady "men are so much more thorough,
they have so much more time to study and
practice than women,” (we do not believe
all this.)  Yet, allowing part as true, let us
review—some of the many disadvantages,
and hindrances placed against her in this
field.
	In the first place there always has been a
strong prejudice against women in medical
colleges of the past; many not allowing her
to enter as a student, and even to day,
she is prevented, debared from many
privileges that justly belong to her.
	Next she is not paid near as large a
salary as man, and she is expected to do a
great deal more work.  I feel that this is a
gross partiality a cruel wrong.  Conserva-
tism, custom still holds an influence in
civilization; yet,we must not worry over it,
for time, intelligence and woman’s own
ability will eventually right these condi-
tions, and that which will aid and bring
about a reform the most speedy will be the
firm, united support of women by women.
	We read in history that the Mohammedan

[Column 2]
wives and mothers held that inherent
modesty sacred: they would not allow men
doctors to wait upon them in their most
trying sicknesses.  I have in the past year
when reading of the fearful atrocities per-
petrated by men of the profession, felt to
exclaim, would to Heaven our women of
the Nineteenth Century were more like the
Moslem women of far off ancient Arabia
in some respects!  We are taught that true
modesty is one of the most lovely orna-
ments a woman can possess, I hold it next
to virtue as the most necessary: and al-
though a woman may have beauty of form
and face, intelligence, wealth and all other
attainments combined, without pure
unadulterated modesty she falls far short of
what God intended her to be.
	I do not desire you to misunderstand me.
I have great respect and esteem for compe-
tent men practitioneers, yet, I wish to say
words of encouragement and faith in
those of our own organization, (I write-
from personal experience,) who can so fully
comprehend our needs and wants as they,
who so truly feel and sense our suffering as
refined, educated gentle womanhood? Who
so readily tell and judge every feeling of the
heart, the mind the working’s of natures
laws as those of a similar constitution?
Therefore, let us sustain them, not only in
words but deeds, prove our loyalty and
friendship, respect and approval of their
undertakings. Patronize and love them,
use our influence, strengthen them by our
confidence and defence on every occasion
possible.
	Ignorance is a strong factor where its
power is acknowledged and allowed to grow,
yet numbers nor force cannot long with-
stand the light of intelligence, the rays of
superior knowledge of brain qualities,
where principles of sound judgment and
true wisdom are arrayed. Just as soon as
women are themselves fully awakened to
the realization of their own qualifications,
their real value as doctors and nurses, just
so soon will every one else, men included
acknowledge them as such.
	We wish our doctors (our lady doctors)
every success. We desire them to be
highly educated in all branches of scientific
study, to improve every opportunity to
grasp every advanced idea that presents
itself, to keep pace with the glorious age
we live in, to be thorough, accurate,
systematic and capable; to have dignity
and gentleness combined, modesty, purity,
neatness, order and love pervade their every
walk in life and thereby, prove that they
are just what we would wish them to be,
ministering angels on earth.
	J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, July 3rd, 1894.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	LIFE has no securities to those who live
regardless of law.
	GOOD food makes good blood, and good
blood is the life of the body.
	AS threshing separates the wheat from
the chaff, so does affliction purify virtue—
Burton.
	To lie down after work and to take off
pressure, is to render a doctor unnecessary
in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred.
	EDUCATE the stomach. When it is once
accustomed to simple food, voracious ap-
petite, distress, and disease will disappear.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON .Camilla), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra lor postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m, to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JULY 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
TEMPLE EXCURSION.

A NEW DEPARTURE.

	ONE of the most unique and pleasant
excursions of the season, and quite new in
its character, was to Brigham City recently,
the party consisting of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple people and a few invited guests, the
First Presidency, the Presiding Bishop and
one or two others, besides those regularly
engaged in that sacred house. To President
Lorenzo Snow belongs the credit and the
honor of originating the idea of such an
appropriate holiday rest and entertainment.
Everything had been planned beforehand,
the party was to visit Brigham City and
places adjacent, and the saints in that vicinity
were delighted to have this opportunity of
welcoming to their generous hospitality, the
venerable President of the Church, and his
Counselors as also his immediate friends,
and brethren and sisters Temple workers,
find their own revered. President Lorenzo
Snow, who for so many years had been the
leading spirit in everything connected with
the welfare of the people in that Stake of
Zion, spiritual and temporal.
	Leaving Salt Lake City at 3, p. m. July
22nd, the train pulled out amid cheers and
parting salutes of bystanders who had
come to see the party off. The day was
fine but a thunder storm came up, and when
the party reached Brigham City the rain
was pouring. Horses and carriages were
waiting, but the hundreds of children who
had come out in white, with flags and ban-
ners were obliged to retreat to the opera
house for shelter,—however when the long
line of carriages was ready and began the
line of march, the storm had abated, and
the children were ranged in line each side
along the way, bowing, smiling and waving
their banners, and saluting President Wood-
ruff and the party, who in return saluted
them from the carriages in passing. After
driving through the principal streets and
counter-marching—the party were taken
to the places where provision had been
made to entertain them respectively, and
feasted and rested until evening—when the
old-fashioned party was held in the dancing
hall of the opera house, which was hand-
somely decorated for the occasion. The
music was excellent, and there were some
wonderful old-time memories awakened as
the brethren and sisters participated in the
square cotilions, minuets, Scotch reels and
Roger de Coverly etc. Brother Dunbar had
his bagpipes along and everywhere he

[Column 2]
amused and interested the company by way
of variety.  In fact we remarked several
times he was like the king’s jester, “so
witty and full of originality.” Miss Salm-
on gave The Massacre of Zoroaster admir-
ably, the singing by the Temple choir,
an daquartette of local singers, were a charm
ing feature of the evening.
	At nine a. m. Saturday morning the
party were again in carriages enroute to
Mantua; the morning was delightful, the
air refreshing after the shower of the day
previous. At Mantua again hundreds of
children greeted the party, many of them
never having seen President Woodruff or
his Counselors before. Mantua is beautifully
situated in a little peaceful vale hemmed in
by high mountains. Here the meeting
house was decorated with flowers and vines
and flowering plants and shrubs, the
streamers above the stand where the Presi-
dency were seated bore a Welcome in blue
and gold letters. Here President Woodruff
and both his Counselors also Apostles Lo-
renzo Snow and Franklin D. Richards each
made brief and appropriate speeches, en-
couraging the people and speaking in praise
of the beautiful farm homes, the enterprise
and thrift manifest on every side.
	The dinner at Mantua was a most de-
lightful success, in the larger room were six
tables, about twenty people were seated at
each of these, and in a smaller room we were
told there were three tables of about the
same seating capacity. The great variety
and the skilled cooking was indeed notic-
able. Beautiful vases of flowers ornament-
ed the scene, the largest and ripest straw-
berries and cherries added to the effect, and
honey in the comb white and pure, the most
delicious cream, together with all that makes
up a dinner fit for a king, or the most fas-
tidious Epicure was there in abundance—
“the tables” (might well have) groaned
with the weight of the feast.” After dinner
President Snow in the most pleasing man-
ner announced that toasts and sentiments
from the guests would be in order and
“opened the ball” himself in a humorous
way. This was followed by several of the
company some being called for and others
responding voluntarily. The Bishop of
Mantua had his share of congratulations,
and everything passed off pleasantly. While
the party were dining the school house
filled with children awaited the return of
the Presidency and party, who spoke to
them for a few minutes previous to leaving
on the return trip to Brigham City.
	On the way home the party were driven
past the reservoir which is on the top of a
high hill at the mouth of the canyon only
reached by a winding road, the water is
cold and of excellent quality, and in
sufficient quantity to supply the City.
	A concert in the evening at the Opera
House made a fitting finish of the day’s
enjoyment and festivities. The entertain-
ment of the evening at the Opera House
was a grand affair and the management for
the visitors and guests was quite perfect, as
indeed was the entire program from first to
last. The concert was given in honor of
the Salt Lake Temple Party. The archway
over the platform was artistically covered
with roses so beautifully arranged that none
but an accomplished artist who knew how
to make his work effective from the seats in
the body of the house, could have made it
such a success. The perfume of the sweet-
scented flowers pervaded the atmosphere of
the room. The concert began with music
by the Mendon Brass Band, followed by a

[Column 3]
song “Come where the Lilies Bloom” by
the Brigham City Choir, beautifully ren-
dered, Recitation, “The Martyred Mother.”
Ray Evans, very pathetic and feelingly
given showing thought and study of the
situation.  The Temple Choir, a
double quartette, “When Evening’s Twi-
light,” was brilliantly executed. Then there
was more music by the band, meanwhile
Brother W. C. Dunbar dressed in costume
for the old time favorite song “My Old
Wife and I.” A violin quartette by Mag-
nus Benson and others was one of the most
interesting features of this enjoyable concert.
An original poem given by Lula in her
quaint and sedate style was very well re-
ceived and heartily and graciously applaud-
ed.
(POEM BY LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.)
June is, I think, the happiest month of all the
year;
Its bounteous gifts of flow’rs and fruits, so
luxurious appear.
The laughing brooklet, and the bird’s sweet carol
to its mate,
All speak of gratitude and love, which should our
hearts elate.
The hearts of all who know the worth of friend-
ship being tried,
In little voyages, to and fro, upon Life’s Ocean
wide.
I’m wondering, if, the past year’s voyage, this
grand old Ship, at Sea,
Came freighted with such gifts for each, as it has
brought to me.

Not wealth of silver, or of gold; nor gems of
worldly kind;
But Heavenly joys, with faith increased, and won-
drous peace of mind
The kingdoms of this world can claim no place,
no parity,
Compared with the pure love of Christ, unfailing
charity,

And this rare gift true Friendship brings unto the
chaste and meek;
They do receive, and they do find, who humbly
ask and seek.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” we sing; if Christ’s
pure love we show,
We do approach Him, day by day, and nearer
like Him grow.
But of this beauteous summer month, and this
delightful place,
I thought to tell, yet wandered off, somehow, to
broader space.
Excuse me, I return, and would your kind at-
tention claim;
The First of June was Brigham’s Day, this City
bears his name;

The Salt Lake Temple he designed; truly appro-
priate,
Their first vacation, all its workers, thus should
celebrate.
What generous hospitality from our Box Elder
Friends!
How can we praise our God enough for all the
good He sends?
Mantua—for the birth place named, of him who
wisely plan’d
This sacred, great Excursion, how excellent and
grand
Its situation in the hills, its people brave and
kind;
What pleasing memories often will present them
to the mind.

Again, of Heber Kimball think, who stood by
Brigham’s side;
Long o,er the great Endowment work commis-
sioned to preside;
We rarely think to mention that these men, so
true in heart,


Had birthday's both in June, and only fourteen
	days apart.
We visit Willard City named for one most 
	staunch and good;
’Twas Willard who with Brigham Young and 
	Heber C. once stood.
Why not to his dear memory a loving tribute
	pay?
Remembering that the Twenty-fourth of June
	was his birthday.
The Deseret News, to whose good works, so very
	much we owe,
Was Willard Richard’s paper first, forty-four
	years ago;
The first Post Office Utah knew, he was the 
	Master in; 
(’Tis hard to pause when of such men biogra-
	phies begin.)

But I would turn again to God, and to His blessed
	Son;
And mention, if I may, something which they for
	us have done:
A year ago last Spring, we, through the Prophet
	Wilford learned,
The key in favor of the Saints, in Jesus’ hand was
	turned.
Who has not felt the force of this? Who has not
	seen the pow’r
Of God, more plainly manifest,since that event-
	ful hour?
I testify that I do know, and in each fiber sense
The truth of Wilford Woodruff’s words,and God’s
	Omnipotenee.
Christ holds the key; that loving hand through
	which the nail was driv’n;
His prayers unto His Father reach; His people 
	were forgiven;
Their offering was accepted, and, with Joseph at
	the head
Of this Last Dispensation,  unerringly they’re
	led.
God bless the Prophets of our day, who for His
	people care;
And bless the honest, pure in heart,and virtuous,
	everywhere;
Who love the truth, and speak the truth, and
	live it, day by day;
And help us all to overcome the evils in our way.

God bless the Temple workers,and great light on
	them bestow;
Especially our President and head, Lorenzo
	Snow.
And multiply all blessings on our kind Box Elder
	friends;
Then, how can we praise God enough, for all the
	good He sends.

	Instrumental selections by Holst 
Brothers were exceptionally good and Mrs.
Maggie Hull sang with much feeling a
favorite Scotch Ballad.
	B. M. Young who was to have given
"Chinese Imitation in character, gave in-
stead some comic acting in costume, which
created quite a furore with the younger part
of the audience, and then came a comic
selection by a few of the Brigham City
Choir “Peter, Peter Pumpkin Eater.”
	Changing the character of the entertain-
ment was an original true story composed
and read by Nephi Anderson.  The reading
and the scenes described were restful and
true to life and portrayed the talent of the
young man in story telling, though the
pictures were not so powerfnlly drawn as
to be at all exciting.  Next came Brother
Dunbar with his wonderful Scotch Bag-
pipes which never failed to be “a drawing
card” for the applause of the audience,
especially with his peculiar explanations,
given so graphically as no one else could
do but Brother Dunbar himself.  Mrs.

[column 2]
Armeda S. Young gave the recitation
“Whistling In Heaven,” getting a full
share of applause from the audience. “The
Whippoorwill’s Song” by the Brigham
City choir was sweetly and effectively given,
and music by the Mendon Brass Band
closed the brilliant performance; the verdict
of all was a most delightful evening.
	Sunday morning dawned beautiful and
bright, and early the streets began to fill
with boys and girls, young men and maid-
ens wending their way from all parts of
the city towards the meeting house, where
at 10 a. m. the Sunday school exercises
began.
	President Woodruff and his counselors
George Q. Cannon (Supt. of Sunday
Schools) and Joseph F. Smith, and Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards,
President Rudger Clawson and counselors
of Box Elder Stake were in the stand.
Other brethren and sisters of the visitors
were on the platform and the sight was in-
deed a charming and glorious one. The
body of the house filled with the younger
children was like a flower garden only far
more effective because instead of flowers
only, there were the intelligent faces and
bright eyes beaming with joy and happiness
of many hundreds of children, the “Hope
of Israel.”  There were some exercises
excellently well rendered, both in singing
and recitation, but the time was mostly
occupied by the First Presidency who made
brief addresses and asked a few questions
suited to the occasion.
	At 2 p. m. the Tabernacle was filled with
the grown people who had given place to
the children in the morning,and the preach-
ing by the First Presidency was solemn and
impressive, though full of encouragement
and hope to those who were trying to live
their religion and follow the Savior’s teach-
ing. President Woodruff and his counse-
lors seemed filled with the Holy Spirit and
with a desire to bless and comfort the
people, and it must have been exceedingly
gratifying to the Saints in Box Elder to
have an opportunity of hearing the aged and
venerable President speak of his long and
wonderful experience in proclaiming the
Gospel from almost the commencement of
this work.  His intimate associations with
the Prophet Joseph his Brother Hyrum
and many of the Apostles who are now
passed behind the vail.  President Wood-
ruff’s sermon seemed almost like testimony
from the spirit world.
	Notwithstanding all the precious things
that were said during the morning and
afternoon services, the evening meeting was
even more intensely interesting and will
never be forgotten by those who were
present.  The singing was particularly ap-
propriate and elevating  The stand was
filled with the presiding authorities of the
Church and of Box Elder Stake of Zion
Bishops etc. as well as Elders who
were Temple workers.  Meeting opened
with singing the anthem, “I will lift up
mine eyes” by Brigham City Choir, prayer
by Bishop Valentine, singing “Hymn of
Praise” by Temple Choir.  President
Snow announced that there would be short
speeches from one to five minutes by the
Temple workers including himself.
	Bishop John R. Winder was the first
speaker, he was followed by Elder John
Nicholsen chief recorder, Elders Hiram
Groesbeck, N. W. Jones, James Sharp, W.
W. Riter, Jos. H. Dean, Bishop Romney,
Elder William Salmon, Bishop Sheets,
Elder Theodore McKean, Elders W. C.

[column 3]
Dunbar. McAllister and L. A. Wilson.
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and Minnie J. Snow, each spoke
very effectively for a few minutes, after
which Elders Samuel W. Richards and
Adolph Madson made short speeches.
	President Woodruff addressed himself to
the large congregation most impressively
by asking the question “Of all the mil-
lions of the inhabitants of earth, who
among them are assured that the judg-
ments of God will not overtake them?
He answered “None but those who have
the priesthood and are entitled to its bless-
ings and privileges.  The Lord has com-
menced his work of pouring out judgments
on the earth as has been prophesied by in-
spired men.  The powers of the air are
more destructive than ever, and this means
something.  The Priesthood has power and
the heavens will listen to the prayers of
those holding the holy Priesthood.  Great
changes are at our doors and many who are
present and their children will live to
see them.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	
	President Woodruff seemed filled to
overflowing with the spirit of prophecy and
solemnly testified that the angels had left
the portals on high and were now among
the nations of the earth.  His remarks
were full of inspiration and the spirit of
prophecy, and the impression made upon
the congregation can never be effaced from
the memory of those who listened to his
voice on that wonderful occasion.  Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon also bore a power-
ful testimony. The meeting was closed
with the entire assembly singing the
Doxology.   Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards pronounced the benediction.
	Monday morning the company proceeded
in carriages to Willard City, stopping a
few moments at Three Mile Creek where
the Sunday School children and their
teachers had gathered with flags and ban-
ners to welcome the President and party.
The Presidency responded, greeting the
children happily, and the party wended
their way to Willard, arriving in time for
the meeting at ten o’clock.  The Meeting
House was beautifully decorated with
mottoes, banners and flowers, and the
people were assembled and waiting.  The
exercises were very pleasing, consisting of
music vocal and instrumental, and ad-
dresses were made by the Presidency,
Brother Dunbar brought out his bagpipes
and Mrs. Hull sung “My Western Home,”
very expressivly. “The Sleigh Ride” by
the Willard City Choir, was heartily ap-
plauded. There are some very fine voices
among that choir.  The dinner given in the
City Hall was an immense success; here
again the tables were loaded with every
variety of fruit, vegetables etc. and a dis-
play of dainty cooking and handsomely
furnished,and hall and tables decorated for
the occasion.
	A photographer was on hand with his
apparatus and the company as a whole
seated at the table was photographed.
	After dinner the party met the children in
the meeting house, and the Presidency
addressed them in their usual kind and
fatherly manner.  At Willard the party
took the train for Salt Lake City.
	The whole affair was peculiarly interest-
ing and entertaining.  Nothing happened
to mar the pleasure of the party,the greatest
harmony prevailed in all the diversified
gatherings, and it will long be remembered
as an important and pleasurable event.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						157


158							WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OLD TEMPLE WALL.
Dear Exponent.
	I CAME home and found you awaiting
me, and when I commenced to read, my
eyes fell upon some verses headed “The
Old Temple Wall.” I read them and re-
read them and wondered who the writer
might be, did he or she feel as I had felt
when I first heard it was doomed to fall,
was at first as it were stunned for a time,
and in my heart of hearts I sighed, “O, that
I had the gift of an E. R. Snow, John Lyon,
H. T. King or of E. H. Woodmansee,
I could draw from the depth of my soul an
offering for that sacred wall.” How well I
remember seeing our brethren work upon
it, I watched them from the day it was
commenced until the day it was finished,
good hard working men willing to build
that firm substantial wall without money;
for true Zion had but little money in those
days; but some who were not skilled in
building, raised cows and horses while
others raised grain and other provisions for
the support of those who performed that
noble work. And I have watched our be-
loved President Young and his associates
standing holding COUNCIL under the shade
of that once grand old wall, but now
doomed to yield to fancy’s art.
	Do our sons and daughters think that we
are clumsy after educating them, so that
we like the honored wall appear clumsy in-
deed, we used to pray in simplicity, “Our
Father in heaven we ask thee in the name
of Jesus thy Son to bless thy servants who
labor on thy Temple Wall that they may
be strengthened to endure the heat, and that
they may be kept in thy choice care,and be
preserved from accident and receive the re-
ward of the faithful,” those prayers were
answered and witnessed by me.
						AN OLD TIMER.
Salt Lake City, June 18, 1894.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake was held in Lehi, on
Monday April 30th, 1894, President Mary
John presiding, assisted by her Counselors.
Sisters Marilla Daniels and Deborah Billings.
Visiting Sisters from Salt Lake City,
President Zina D. H. Young and E. B.
Wells. Bishop Cutler and other brethren
also present.
	Conference opened by the usual exercises
reading of reports, each one reporting
the work verbally done in her society, and
the different methods used to raise money
to help the poor, one society reported hav-
ing cooked a nice dinner and invited the
merchants to come and anyone else who
wished to come, to do so, and the money
thus gained was put in the poor fund and
was a great help to the society, not one of
the needy had suffered (to their knowledge)
there was considerable said by each
President in regard to the wheat, how
much there was on hand, and the best
method of preserving it etc. the society
was represented as being on the increase in
faith and good works, the members ener-
getic and faithful in their duties much was
said in praise of the teachers as being a
faithful band of workers, deserving of
much credit, for the diligent discharge of
their duties, etc.
	Sister Zina addressed the conference for a
short time in her pleasant quiet way, was

[Column 2]
pleased to have so many of the brethren
with us, could feel the good spirit with us,
it unites us.”  President Young advised
meeting together often, it unites us, strive
to keep the holy spirit with us continually,
be firm in our faith and integrity, encourage
each other.  Speak kind words to, and of
each other while living and not wait till we
are dead. Sisters can appreciate each
others work, there are some who are always
ready and willing to work and help others.
Sister Eliza said if you want help, go to
the workers, they are always ready and
willing to help others, sisters, read the
Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants, read and digest them.  Our strength
lies in God and he will give us the victory
for our integrity we need not fear, etc.”
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time
on our duties and responsibilities, also
spoke of our wheat, said she would like to
get advice from the brethren as to the best
way to preserve and take care of it, we
must take care of it, for it has been said by
one of our prophets that the time would
come when a bushel of wheat would bring
a bushel of gold, we shall be called on for
bread, this wheat is only to be used in case
of famine, etc.
	Bishop Cutler spoke on the wheat also,
and of the time of famine which we might
expect according to the prophecies, thought
the work the sisters were doing was very
commendable.  After singing Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.  Benediction by
William Southwick.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing and prayer, a few reports were
given in, after which Sister Deborah Bill-
ings said if her testimony of the truth of
this work would help any one she would
feel repaid for her timidity, said she had
lived in Nauvoo, in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, under the sound of his
voice had also passed through the mobbings
in Missouri spoke of the organization of
this society in Nauvoo and on various
other subjects.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the very
very great work this is in which we are en-
gaged.  Our Prophet realized the greatness
thereof; wished the sisters had more houses
of their own, each branch should have a
house if possible, was sure the brethren
would help them build, they could work
together and help each other and could do a
great deal without money.  Let us pray
for Sister Zina our President who presides
over this great organization which extends
to so many lands, she needs the prayers of
our sisters as much as President Woodruff
does and we always remember to pray for
Him, we need the prayers of the faith-
ful the speaker gave some of her early
experiences, knew Joseph Smith was a
Prophet as soon as she saw him, she knew
him when only a child, had a strong
testimony of the truth of this work.  Spoke
of the faithfulness of the people in the
days of the Nauvoo troubles. She ex-
horted the young sisters to bear testimony
to the truth thereby keeping it bright, ad-
vised the sisters to read the Lectures on
Faith, and talk about them, said it would
strengthen their faith, for they would need it
soon.  Spoke on the wheat question, told
how surprised, and pleased some of the
ladies were, that she had met in Chicago,
to hear of our saving wheat, “I invited
them to come to Zion and we would feed
them, if they should be in need, what a
terrible thing it is to be hungry, some of us
have had an experience in the days of

[Column 3]
want.”  Spoke of beautifying our homes
providing work for the needy, of the waste
of grain made into liquor etc. thought
when women had the right to vote there
would not be so many saloons in the land.
Spoke on silk culture, advised the putting
out of mulberry trees or cuttings. Spoke
of the medals awarded at the fair for the
silk, and upon the laws of health, thought
through faith and prayer and correct living.
a great deal of the suffering now endured
might be done away with etc.
	Sister Zina said Brother Brigham ex-
horted her to work up the silk industry
and we might just as well have been wear-
ing silk of our own raising and exporting
half a million of dollars worth every year,
if we had taken hold of it, and put our
children at it; and a great many things
might be manufactured here instead of
sending to Babylon for them, “teach your
children the laws of life and health, that
they may live to the age of a tree.” Spoke
against round dancing—thought many had
been injured by indulging in this practice.
	Sister John had been highly edified,
thought it a good plan to change our con-
ferences from one place to another, it gives
all a chance to attend; was pleased to see
so many young sisters, they will have to
take the responsibility some day in the
place of the older sisters, advised them
to take Sister Zina’s counsel, in regard to
reading the Lectures on Faith, spoke of the
power of faith in the healing of the sick,
the sisters have faith as well as the brethren.
She spoke on various other subjects, silk
industry, home manufactures etc. Sisters
Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells had
each spoken on, and advised the sisters to
prepare the straw and make their own hats,
bonnets etc.
	Sister John announced that there would
be a Woman Suffrage meeting held in Provo
on the following day and all were invited to
attend and advised the young ladies to join
that association etc.  There was a call
made for all who knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith to arise to their feet, sixteen
responded to the call.  After singing,
conference was adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop Cutler.

	ON Tuesday, May 1st, at 2 p. m. a
Relief Society meeting was held in Provo,
President Mary John presiding.  Singing,
“O my Father,” which was rendered in a
beautiful manner by a choir of young
ladies from Spanish Fork.  Elder Oliver
Huntington in a few remarks gave his bless-
ing to the sisters, after which Sister Z. D.
H. Young addressed them, said Joseph turned
the key for woman, “he laid the foundation
of the power that we have today, all that
love the truth show it in their faces.  We
all have a portion of the Deity implanted
in us, we are the women that God has
chosen, and let us be true to each other and
never speak slightingly of each other.  Our
Savior appeared first to a woman after his
resurrection.  The Relief Society is or-
ganized all over the world wherever this
Gospel has been preached.  We can give
glory to God in all things for we feel our
dependance on him.  The Jews rejected him,
and if we had obeyed counsel we would
have been better off today.  We must
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
and he will sustain us.”  Urged the
mothers again to read the Lectures on
Faith, to take a few minutes each morn-
ing and they would never miss it, and when


we have the spirit of God we can work
better. "Let us take the Exponent, for
we can gain knowledge there that will 
exalt us that we may become companions
for our husbands. We are helping our
Savior to save souls, let us never lose sight
of the mark of the high calling." Spoke 
of the great work the sisters are doing and 
how often they helped the brethren to 
furnish and decorate their meeting houses; 
said in some settlements the sisters go 
around and help those who have large
families to do their sewing, and house
cleaning, thus lifting heavy burdens from 
them, her remarks were lengthy and varied
and full of good counsel and instructions to 
the sisters. 
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke of the sweet
spirit that had been with us today, of the 
good counsels of Sister Zina; said, she is
full of love, charity and kindness. 
Joseph was educated of the Lord, and we 
want to learn all we can for the world to 
come, for we cannot be saved in ignorance. 
	Sisters Gates and John both made good 
remarks, which would make the minutes
too long if reported. After singing, 
" Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"
meeting adjourned. Benediction by Sister
Billings. 				C. DANIELS, Sec. 
		BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference of the 
Bear Lake Stake convened in Bloomington, 
Idaho in the Meeting-house, May 27, 1894. 
On the stand were President William 
Budge and Counselor W. J. Rich, and all
the leading women of the Stake, President
J. P. Lindsey presiding. Singing, "Do 
what is Right." Prayer by William
Budge. Singing,  "Home, Sweet Home."
The roll called and minutes of the two
previous meetings read and received.
President J. P. Lindsay, in her opening re-
marks wondered if the sisters fully realized
the importance of their mission on the earth
and the many blessings they enjoy from
time to time. 	
	The following branches were then re-
ported all as in good running order: 
Bloomington, Sister Nelson; St. Charles
Fish Haven, Garden City, Lake Town, 
Woodruff, Paris, First and Second Wards, 
Nounan, Ovid, Liberty, Montpelier, 
Bennington, George Town, Dingle, 
Thomas Fork and Preston. 
	President Lindsay gave some instructions
concerning the keeping of grain, urged
the sisters to procure good places for their 
grain, and take good care of it. Coun-
selor Collins explained to the sisters the 
great necessity of attending their meetings
regularly and trying to improve themselves
said that the Lord would bless the labors
of the honest in heart. 
	Meeting adjourned by singing, "God is 
Love." Benediction Bishop Humes. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, "On
the Mountains Tops Appearing." Prayer
by Bishop West of Paris. Singing, "Think
gently of the erring one."
	President Lindsay said that we had re-
ceived instructions to hold our regular 
meetings once in two weeks, desired the 
presidents to comply with this request as 
far as possible. Gave further instructions
concerning the storing of grain, spoke of 
the sisters taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
said that the paper should be sustained. 
	Counselor L. M. Hart was delighted to 
see so many present, said it was the great-
est representation we had ever had in con-
[Column 2]
ference, spoke at some length on the sub-
ject of Charity, and also of the encourage-
ment given us by the presidency of the 
Stake. The statistical and financial reports
were then read, after which Brother Cluff, 
President of the Brigham Young College
at Provo, being present, addressed the meet-
ing. Said the sisters were engaged in a 
great work, and that its greatness could 
not be conceived any more than the great-
ness of the gospel of Christ. Said the 
Lord always blesses the gathering of the 
sisters they are helping in no small way the
work of the Lord on the earth. The 
labors of the sisters were found in all the
 byways of life, urged them to study the 
principles of the Gospel. Spoke of the 
visions of Joseph Smith, and the explana-
tion of them, given by the great men of 
the world, encouraged obedience in the 
children. 
	Closing remarks were made by President
Lindsay, who thanked the people of Bloom-
ington for the house. Conference ad-
journed. Singing, "And, oh the Lord 
will hear me." Benediction by Brother 
John Bagley. 					Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.							159


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
June 2, 2894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing,
“Glorious things are sung of zion.”
Prayer by Sister M. A. Hazon. Continued
by singing, “For the strength of the hills 
we bless thee.’  Minutes of previous 
meeting read and approved.
  President M. I. Horne said “Our Secre-
tary is still not permitted to meet with us
Her sister was buried from her house
yesterday.  Let us pray that she may yet
come and meet with us.”  President Horne
spoke of a Circular from Sister Lizzie Shipp,
concerning the opening of a class to study
Obstetrics, which was read by Sister Lydia
D. Alder.  President Horne also spoke of a
lady in our midst who had made a study of
children and mothers, said Professor Stew-
art thought a great deal of the lectures on
this subject, said it would be beneficial for
the daughters and young mothers to attend
them.  Counselor Stevenson spoke at some
length on the calamities that were being
poured out on the nations, and of the up- 
rising of the unemployed element in our
own land. “They do not know what they
are going to do, yet their way seems marked
for them" Counselor Stevenson also gave
many good instructions to the sisters re-
garding the raising of children, urged the
sisters to understand their duties, as wives
and mothers, and so live that God can bless
them.  Sister Holland urged the sisters to
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father, and be faithful, for He would cut
his work short in righteousness.  Sister E.
Barrus also bore testimony, and spoke of
many things in her experience.
  Sisters sang “Come, come ye saints,”
Sisters Aird and Jedpeila bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Sisters Raw-
lings and Kiddle also testified of many
glorious truths, and desired to ever be true.
  Sister Sarah Kimball said," I am thankful
to be here, and I feel to rejoice before the
Lord.  My mind went back to other days
as I came into the meeting this afternoon,
years ago when these meetings were first
organized.  President Horne had six
counselors seven to preside, myself and

[Column 2]
Sister Horne, are all that are present
and only four of the original number re-
main, soon all will have passed away.
Sister Howard, was a pioneer in woman’s
work,I feel to bless you all, and desire that
we may live near to the Lord.   We all have
our individual lives to live.  The scriptures
teach us that Jesus trod the winepress
alone, so our troubles are not known to
our friends, only to us and God.  We have
our individual sorrows and joys.  In our
hearts we feel a compensation for our
sorrows, and this brings a blessing, to help
us to a higher life.  In sorrow we draw
nearer to God, He knows us best and
understands our life works.  Sister Kimball
closed by giving her blessing to her sisters.
  Sister L. D. Alder felt to encourage the
sisters in their great life work, pictured out
the necessity of living near to the Lord
that we might enjoy the communion of the
Holy Ghost, which leads into all truth and
light, desired that we might all be faithful,
that in the end we might enter into His
presence.
  President Horne added a few closing re-
marks.  Desired to see fathers and mothers
take note and be wise in cultivating their
children, and restrain them all in their
power, gather them around their knees and
teach them, of God, His requirements, and
his laws, and read them the stories of old
in the Bible.  President Horne also warned
the parents to pay strict attention to the
genealogies of their families. The meeting
was adjourned for four weeks, on account
of the conference.  President Horne an-
nounced the Stake Conference to meet in
the Assembly Hall, June 15, 1894.  De-
sired all the sisters to attend.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet.”  Benediction, Sister J. C. Howe.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


FLORIDA LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT EQUAL RIGHTS AS-
			SOCIATION OF UTAH.

Dear Friend:
	THE next annual convention of the N.
A. W. S. A. meets, as you are aware, in
our own Southern City, Atlanta.  The
south, while generally conceded to hold the
greatest possibilities for future work, is al-
most unbroken ground; and we have in ad-
dition to the usual discouragements, an
unsympathetic and often hostile press.
  To bring the cause into prominence in
this section, to gain for it a large amount
of advertising it would not otherwise re-
ceive, and to “put money in our purse”
which will enable us to do a greatly needed 
work before the convention in February,
we have decided to have a bazaar. For
this we ask what we trust you will consider
most modest and expensive aid. It is that
you will lay before your State Societies our
request that each send us one apron and
one sun-bonnet, for either women or
children. This while a small outlay for a
society, will if but a few respond from
each state, make with our own efforts a
brave showing. The proceeds to be turned
over to the president of the Southern
Committee to be used for work in the
south.  Will you not aid us, and at once?
And may we not hope to hear from you on
receipt of this.
                 Sincerely Yours,
	ELLA C. CHAMBERLAIN, Prest.
Tampa Florida, 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

AT 3 p. m. the 13th day of June 1894,
nearly one hundred guests, met in the
north ward Relief Hall,Nephi, to celebrate
the golden wedding of our highly esteemed
friends, Brother Jacob G. and Sister Amy
L. Bigler.  The party was made up of the
children, grand children and great grand
children of the honored couple; the
Presidency of the stake, Bishops and their
Counselors, Relief Society stake officers,
local officers, and old time friends and
fellow laborers in the Gospel.
  After congratulations to the bride and
bridegroom, the company sat down to a
table well filled with the good things of
this world, very beautifully decorated, the
greatest attraction being the wedding cake,
the largest and most tastefully decorated
cake I have ever seen, and it tasted just as
good as it looked, the cake was made by
Mrs. M. A. Tanner, eldest daughter of the
aged couple.
  Brother and Sister Bigler were some of
the first settlers in Nephi, and the Bigler
family are one of the most respected fam-
lies in Nephi.  He has filled several
prominent positions in the church and is
now Patriarch of the Juab Stake, Sister
Bigler holds the office of first counselor to
Sister M. Pitchforth, President of the
Relief Society of the stake.  She
is a wise counselor and true and faith-
ful to every duty, we had a very enjoyable
time.
 The program consisted of songs, recita-
tions and speeches rendered by the children,
grand children and great grand children,
also friends of the respected couple, all very
appropriate for the occasion.  Sister S. A.
Cazier sang, a golden wedding song,
Brother Bigler’s sons, each one expressed
their feelings, said if they followed the
advice and teachings of their father they
would never go astray.  Brother Bigler
gave a short sketch of his early associations
with this church.  He referred to several
incidents in the life of Brother Joseph
Smith, testified to the instance of the
mantle of Joseph falling on Brigham
Young.  Brother Bailey testified to the
same.  Said he was not acquainted with
Brigham, and rose from his seat to see if it
was not Brother Joseph speaking. Sister
S. M. Love also testified to the same.
  Sister Bigler thanked her friends for their
presence and good wishes.  Brother Bigler
is in his 82nd year, and Sister Bigler in her
72nd year.  May they both live as long as
life is sweet to them, was the prayer and
benediction of all present.
			      E. S. GOLDSBROUGH.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
        UTAH COUNTY W. S. A.
	ON Tuesday morning, May first, a W. S.
A. convention was held at Provo, President
Electa Bullock in the chair.  Delegates
were present from most of the towns in the
County and the attendance was unusually
large.  A very interesting program was
carried out. a choir of beautiful young girls
from Spanish Fork, furnished sweet and
inspiring music for the occasion.  There
were some original papers read, one by
Fanny Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, and one
by Margaret Gaddy, of American Fork,
both were excellent; Mrs. Gaddy’s paper
was published in our issue of June first.
Brief speeches were made and addresses

[Column 2]
given by the Delegates and others present;
among whom we recall Mesdames Mary
John, Manila Daniels, Joanna Patten and
Ellen Jakeman, of Provo, Zina D. H.
Young and E. B. Wells of S. L. City.
Hannah Lapish of American Fork made
quite a characteristic speech telling in her
humorous style of her trip to California and,
attending some Woman’s Congresses.
  Some important business was transacted
and after the Convention adjourned, all
present were invited to partake of a
delicious lunch prepared by the ladies in
Provo for this special occasion, and the re-
sult was indeed a perfect success. The
social enjoyment was a particularly at-
tractive feature; such gatherings promote
union and call out the best attributes of our
natures.						     H.

	     PLEASANT GROVE W. S. A.
	THE Woman Suffrage Association of
Pleasant Grove met in the meeting house
on Friday, May 25,1894, for the purpose of
effecting a reorganization. Vice-Presidents
Mary John and Marilla Daniels of Utah
County organization were present. Miss
P. E. Brown acted as temporary chairman.
Fifty-one members were enrolled and the
officers were elected.  Mrs. Emeline Rich-
ards, President, Mrs. F. E. Stewart first
vice-president, Miss Maggie Shipley second
vice-president, Miss Libbie Mayhen record-
ing secretary, Miss Grace Mayhen corres-
ponding secretary.  Miss Mary Swenson
treasurer.  Mrs. Anna S. Walker chairman
of second ward and Mrs. Elizabeth Stewart
chairman of third ward.  Members of
executive board.  Mrs. Sarah Foutz chair-
man, P. E. Brown, Lorena Dalley, Hattie
Thorne, Vie Smith, Maggie Adamson,
Elizabeth Davis.  Meeting adjourned for
one month. 	GRACE MAYHEN, Sec.

	HE that repents every day, when he
comes to die will have the sins of but one
day to repent of; short reckonings make
long friends.—Philip Henry.
	IF a man does not make new
acquaintances as he advances through life,
he will soon find himself left alone.  A
man should keep his friendship in constant
repair.—Doctor Johnson.
	AS a cross word begets a word that is
cross, so will a kind one beget its own
likeness.  If people only knew the power
they possess in being kind, how much
good would they achieve for themselves,
how much misery prevent for others!
	THREE very excellent things, and of
great utility, advised by Washington
Irving, are reading, conversation, and re-
flection.  By reading we treat with the
dead, by conversation, with the living, and
by reflection, with ourselves.  Reading en-
riches the memory, conversation polishes
the mind, and reflection forms the judg-
ment.  But of these noble employments of
the soul, were we to say which we think
the most important, we must confess that
reading seems to be the groundwork of the
other two; since without reading, contem-
plation is fruitless and conversation dull
and insipid.
	THE Young Woman’s Home, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., has been saved from sacrifice
by a wealthy gentleman named Binkley,
who paid a $6,000 mortgage.  “Name it
for my mother,” was the only condition of
the gift.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20 “
2:00 p. m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00 “
4:40 “
6:10  “
†10:10 “
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Elle[-]y Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the above five names]

D. E. BURLEY
Gen. Agt. Pass. Dpet.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
VOL. 23.  	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1894.		 No. 2.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Woman Suffrage
Column--M. E. Irvine. U. W. P. C.—Gladys
Woodmansee. Golden Wedding—M. A. W.—
A Jubilee Wedding—One Of The Guests. Wo-
man’s Social and Literary Club—Grace Mayhen.
Old Folks Day—M. E. K. Ladies, Semi-monthly
Meeting—Vilate Young. The Ethics Of The
Green Bay Tree—W. H. Wilkins. R. S. Reports.
Obituary—G. C. R. W.
EDITORIAL:—Saltair. Editorial Notes.
POETRY:—Saltair—Ruth M. Fox. Approving
Words—Emily H. Woodmansee.


SALTAIR.

		(In honor of the aged assembly there.)
	I HAVE seen thee, Saltair when thy waters soblue,
And thy mountains were tinged with a glorious
	hue, 
When thy turrets were bathed with the sun’s
	golden light,
As in splendor he bade thee a loving good night.
When wealth, fashion and beauty have come at
	thy call,
And sweet music resounded through plaza and
	hall.
When brave youths and fair maidens here sport
	in their glee,
Or in barques ride the crest of thy billowy sea.
A palace of beauty I have seen thee afar,
Bespangled with jewels, each bright as a star,
The great and the noble, thou hast borne on thy
	breast, 
Thy praises are rung from the East to the West
Truly charming and grand, thou art ever Saltair,
But never wert thou half so lovely and fair,
As today, with thy spacious halls crowded with
	guests;
The noblest, the bravest, the truest, the best:
These veterans who have horne the heat of the
	day—
Whose feet never faltered though long was the
	way;
Though storms beat about them until feebled and
	bent:
They have fought many battles—dark clouds
	they have rent. 
Who have had armies behind, and deserts be-
	fore,
Have been tempted and tried ’till their hearts
	were sore;
’Tis to these we all vie to do honor today,
’Tis for these for whom God’s choicest blessings
	we pray. 
Bright garlands of flowers, we might weave for
	the brow,
But honor and victory are resting there now,
And garlands of flowers fade and wither away,
But they have won laurels that will never decay.

Justly proud and exalted, thou must be Saltair,
For the privilege of honoring silvered hair,
Though kings, queens and nobles should all come
	thy way,
Thou hast reached the full zenith of glory today. 
						RUTH M. FOX.


STATEHOOD day at Saltair August first.
Speeches by prominent men. Women
look on and listen.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

	XL.
	FOR a few days Mr. Barrington remained
at home nursed by good Patience Austin,
who was very tender and kind, thinking
him overworked, but knowing nothing of
the difficulty, for she was one who would
not listen to slander and therefore she sel-
dom heard the gossip of evil tongues.
	Mrs. Bland kept her promise and had
sent over to the cottage goodly supplies to
be disbursed by John and Patience Austin,
who knew well the needy, and many were
the messages of gratitude, and prayers for
the generous and charitable widow, sent by
these good people. Mrs. Bland sent Josiah
(her faithful butler) to inquire after Mr.
Barrington and learning he was indisposed
requested Mrs. Austin to come over with
him as soon as he was well ecough. The
following Sabbath he was to preach in an
outlying district, so it was several days be-
fore he could call upon Mrs. Bland, and he
was reluctant to go then even though she
had sent for him.
	He was melancholy and ill at ease, he
had no friend on whom he could rely for
comfort and advice, and somehow it seemed
right and proper that he should trust Mrs.
Bland. When he did call she was aston-
shed at the change in his appearance, jmd
urged him to see a physician he replied
that he was in need of sympathy, that his
situation was very trying, and that since
the Doctor’s death and her bereavement he
had lost his sole confident; in a moment he
felt how childish of him to despond, since
Mrs. Bland whose load was heavy indeed
had so much to bear, and he said, “O, Mrs.
Bland forgive my weakness, you are so
brave and have so much to endure, but the
children take up your mind, while I have
really no one to share my sorrow, no one to
advise me and there are many perplexities
even in my profession.”
	"Have you no sister or brother, no near
relative no ties of kindred?"
	"Alas! no, I am an orphan, alone in the
world, I know nothing of my family, I was
educated by my uncle whom I never saw,
though he was most generous in supplying
me with means while I was at school."
	"And where is he now, do you not hear
from him?"
	"Away in foreign parts somewhere, he
was much annoyed when he learned of my
becoming a dissenting minister, he ex-
pected me to take to the Law, or some lit-
erary work, I disappointed him greatly.”
	"It can’t be helped I suppose for you
are really in earnest and most devout, but
surely he will relent some of these days,
and take you back again or come and look
you up in this new land.”
	"But I have never seen him, never! He
does not know me, a most eccentric gentle-
man my tutor told me, quite celebrated,
entirely alone in the world, had been
crossed in love, a romantic story, I sup-
pose, though I never heard it, only from a
tutor I had when quite a boy, who knew
my uncle very well, and was very fond of
talking about him in a desultory way. I

[Column 2]
do not know if he is living or not, his
solicitor in London told me when I em-
barked, that he had gone abroad for an in-
definite period, and might never return
but added you are at liberty to draw upon
me, should you be unable to support your-
self in the new world to which you are
going.”
	This and much more was said and Mr.
Barrington went away in better spirits,
though he had not alluded to the real cause
of his depression.
	He continued to labor among the people, 
and everything settled down quietly again;
for he bore himself with such heroic dignity
that his revilers were ashamed of their evil
suspicions, and were more deferential than
before. In fact his sermons were more
brilliant and his manner more impressive,
and his congregations gradually increased
in numbers and in religious fervor.
	Time passed on and the children grew
more interesting but required more care.
Mrs. Bland watched over them faithfully,
as though they were all her own Now
and then Maitland would write, but never
satisfactorily, sometimes he would say he
was coming, and again that he should come
for the children. Mrs. Bland felt how ter-
rible it would be to give them into his keep-
ing and yet she knew it must be sooner or
later, hoping against hope, that she might
be permitted to keep Anna.
	At last Lord Walton came with his
patrician mother; his coming heralded be-
forehand and the house made ready; ren-
ovated thoroughly, and many new
luxuries provided. Mrs. Bland dreaded
the ordeal, she had scarcely appeared in
society since her husband’s death; and she
knew Lady Walton would go over all the 
details of both bereavements: and she was
not disappointed for the first day of her in-
stallment she sent for Mrs. Bland to ar-
range matters with her, and plied her with
innumerable questions. Mrs. Bland re-
plied mostly in monosyllables, and never
once referred to Lady Walton’s own affairs
of which she had heard from the floating
rumors more than from Maitland, who
after leaving America had said little about
his mother; in fact it was not known
whether she was still an Italian Countess,
or had resumed her own name. Mrs. Bland
always addressed her by her former title.
	After a few days Lady Walton sent for
the children; Maitland had been with them
most of the time, and seemed very proud
of them especially of Edward. Lady 
Walton was quite overcome when the
children were brought to her, and Maitland
could not understand it, but Jane Bland
knew how like the boy was to her uncle
Edward, and this woman of fashion, this
cold, imperious lady now long past her
youth, had not been able during all these
years to crush out her first love. "How
like Anna the baby is?” she said to Mrs.
Bland, not mentioning the boy.
	The few months that Lady Walton
stayed in America were full of excitement
both in doors and out for the hostilities of
the Indians kept the settlers in terrible sus-
pense, and Lady Walton was very timid;


[Column 1]
she had no affiliation with the Puritans, she
disliked all dissenters, and would not listen
to a word in their favor even from Mrs.
Bland to whom she owed a heavy debt of
gratitude, which at times, when in a kindly
mood, she would acknowledge. It was
easy for one as intuitive as Mrs. Bland to
see that Lady Walton had no intention of
remaining long in the Colonies, and she
felt it her duty to speak of the children.
	On one occasion when her ladyship was
alluding to the various changes that had
transpired in the last few years, Mrs. Bland
said, “And my dear Lady Walton what
will the next few years bring about, have
you any definite plans for yourself or the
children?”
	“Not fully matured we shall have a tutor at
the Hall for Edward and I shall keep Anna
with me for the present, taking with me
the faithful old nurse, we cannot stay here,
Maitland is very unhappy, he lingers
around Anna’s grave until I fear he will
unsettle his mind.”
	All this was uttered as it were in a breath
and Jane Bland was taken by surprise;
especially at the idea of Maitland’s grief,
which no one else had discovered; she felt
grieved that Lady Walton had decided on
taking Anna away, and scarcely knew how
to approach the subject. Finally she took
courage and spoke out, “Lady Walton do
you not think that it would be better to
leave baby with me, you cannot be always
with her, your society obligations will
hamper you, and she is so frail and delicate
just like a dainty, white lily, and I am sure
Anna would rather her little girl should
be brought up secluded, apart from the
world of fashion and style.”
	“I too am tired of all that I once took
delight in, my recent troubles have been so
humiliating I cannot tell you,” (and she
burst into tears) meanwhile Jane Bland
waited. ‘‘I have been driven to despera-
tion almost, I shall live in seclusion at
Walton Hall, and Anna's children will
have the opportunity of becoming familiar
at the old castle. I suppose you are still
interested in that, must be, and you need
have no fears that I shall mingle in society,
it would frown upon me now; but cousin
Jane what do you know of Clair Hilliard
and Rob Harrison?”
	“Nothing whatever, we have never
heard since Anna’s illness and death,
scarcely since our arrival here,” “but who
looks after the Castle?” interrogated Mrs.
Bland anxious to waive the subject broached
by Lady Walton.
	“O, the same faithful old people, every-
thing is well kept I have been over several
times, the steward has allowed me full
liberty to go through the house and grounds
whenever I please, and it has been a mel-
ancholy satisfaction. I can imagine all the
past, summoning in fancy the very people
who banqueted there in the olden time.”
	“If you wish to be so secluded why not
stay here, at least for some time?”
	“Maitland’s interests are at stake, he is
popular with the people in the county, and
it is for his sake I try to keep up, other-
wise I would retire altogether, go to some
foreign land, (a civilized country however)
not where one’s life is in jeopardy every hour
as it is here; besides Maitland will marry
again and who is there here, for him to
choose from? I hope he will secure a wife
who will help him to rise in the world, I
want he should have a place of distinction
if his mother has lost all.”
	This, and much more in the same strain,

[Column 2]
was the wail of an ambitious woman of
fashion who had been the reigning belle for
more than one London season.
	“You have not lost in my opinion, but
gained a wonderful experience even if it
has been dearly bought. You are much
richer now for the severe ordeals through
which you have past, and you have still
great advantages and a wide opportunity
for doing good. These precious children
entrusted to your care, need a wise example
as well as judicious training, a sacred trust
indeed, and heaven grant you will never
grow weary, but if at any time you need
me I shall always be only too willing to
render what help is possible to Anna’s lit-
tle ones.”
	This was their last conversation on the
subject, soon after Lady Walton departed
hurriedly, the mansion was shut up for the
time being and Maitland bade farewell to
Mrs. Bland, who wept as she had never
done before, when parting with the babies
that were like her very own. Maitland
promised to write often and her ladyship
professed the most ardent and lasting
friendship, in which Jane Bland had very
little faith; lonely and absorbed she wended
her way home after seeing the vessel set
sail, but she could not and would not leave
America let what would come; for she had
an abiding faith in the destiny of the new
world.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the Office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, June 30th,
1894, President Shipp in the chair. Pray-
er by Dr. R. B. Pratt, roll call responded to
with sentiments from Emerson. Minutes
of previous meeting read and accepted.
	An entertaining paper on Woman’s
Clubs, by Mrs. Dickenson, was read by the
lady herself in a very pleasing style.
	President E. B. Wells moved that with
the exception of the musical selections the
regular program be dispensed with and we
have an informal reception to Countess
Wachtmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts who
accompanied her, and an address from the
honored guest of the evening. The mo-
tion was seconded and carried into effect.
	Mrs. C. L. Boyden favored the club with
some brilliant musical selections. The
Countess desired members to ask questions
that she might give them such information
as would be elicited in that way; she was
very obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly, several of the
ladies availed themselves of the opportunity
to make inquiries upon a subject compar-
atively new in the West, though old as the
Heathen Philosophy in the East.
	Theosophy, the Countess said, is a great
brotherhood, all religions contain some of
its principles. It has no real organization.
	The Countess remarked that she was
formerly very fond of paintings and works
of art, but since being able to view things
in the astral light, the works of the great
masters were thrown into the shade. Her
style of address is very easy and graceful
and she has great command of language.
	The ladies thoroughly enjoyed the pres-
ence and courtesy of this great exponent of
Theosophy, and consider it a red-letter-day
in the history of the club, to have so emi-
nent and distinguished a woman their guest
for the evening. 
	The program for June, will be given at
the next meeting, July 31st.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

W. S. A.—S. L. CO.
	VERY enjoyable Parlor Meetings in the
interest of suffrage have been held, June
5th, at Mrs. Lucy B. Young’s, at which
speeches were made by ladies’ present.
Music and singing by Miss Mabel Young.
	July 3rd, at Mrs. Adella W. Eardley’s, Dr.
Ferguson, Dr. Barney and other ladies
made short addresses. Singing by Misses
Ball, Eardley and Smith, also Mandolin
Solo by Vilate Eardley.

	MINUTES of regular meeting held July,
17th in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall, second Vice President Elizabeth
M. Price in the chair. Sang, “Come
away.” Prayer Maria Holt. Sang, “Oh
ye fair ones.” Roll called, minutes for
July read and approved. Speech from
President Elizabeth MacFarlane, referred
to the parlor meetings held, much good
might be accomplished this way, if women
would study to talk and not be afraid of the
mistakes they made, we should have more
successful women speakers, read from the
EXPONENT a piece entitled “Woman’s
Sphere,” men have become great who have
taken counsel from their wives. C. C. R.
Wells, thought the points made good, but
many men she knew thought differently and
even if they knew their wives to be right
would not acknowledge it. Some of the
very brightest women are the busiest, all
in the family should be called upon to help,
not expect the mother to drudge for all, in
this way labor is made light and much
more can be accomplished; if women voted
men wouid have to be more careful in
their actions, because women will not vote
for impure men. Maria Holt thought a
mother’s influence over her sons could be
felt in many ways, “teach your sons what
is right, true, and virtuous, then if they
turn away you will not be accountable, did
not believe in women being made house-
hold drudges, but sometimes circumstances


oome along over which no man has con-
trol, then a true woman would be willing
to stand by her husband and save all the
expense she could. Barbara Folsom had
voted and hoped to vote again, thought
she would know more about it then.
Frances Smith was in sympathy with this
movement, had always felt we should vote
again, was glad that we were to become a
state, could not see how we could fulfil our
destiny unless we did.
   President MacFarlane thought it had
educated a number of us having the fran-
chise taken from us. Mary P. Silver read
a piece entitled “Freedom was Queen,” re-
ferred to Y. L. Meeting she had attended,
thought our Young Ladies were getting
ready to fill the places of the older ones.
Vice President E. M. Price related an
amusing incident in regard to voting, the
only time she missed was when she had a
severe headache and felt too sick to go, but
her husband told her she must go, of course,
that decided her that she would stay at
home, and she did. Adjourned till August.
M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


STATEHOOD is an assured fact now at
least as far as the enabling act is concerned,
it remains for the people to do the rest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


APPROVING WORDS.

(To Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor.)
IF kindly thoughts were freely spoken,
What joy we freely could impart:
Approving words. Love’s smallest token
Like a fine tonic, cheers the heart.
Approving words like wayside flowers
Are costless yet so truly sweet—
A boon in this rough world of ours,
Where piercing thorns beset our feet—
'Tis well, to honestly express—
Our thanks, however crude they seem
To honor all whose usefulness
Commands, our most sincere esteem.
Thus unto one whose worth is known—
Whose loyal love, and high intent—
And valor for the truth is shown,
Love’s commendation we present.
In love’s pure labor you rejoice—
And all your staunch co-workers too;
And but imperfectly we voice
The gratitude that is your due.
Obedient to the Lord’s command!
True to his cause in every thing,
Right in the foremost rank you stand,
Among the "Daughters of the King."
With love’s own pardonable pride,
These royal daughters look to you—
(Their delegated chief and guide)
For counsel and instruction true.
To twine fresh laurels round your brow,
And pay in part, the debt they owe,
From far and near they gather now,
With countenances all aglow
A Legion! second unto none,
A virgin army, Zion's boast!
"Fair as the moon, clear as the sun"
And mighty as a bannered host.
Unlimited their power and scope,
Uncircumscribed their growth and pace;
The nation’s brighest, surest hope,
The future mothers of the race.
You, as a Leader, needs must feel,
How sacred is the power you hold;
The worth of well-directed zeal—
Exceeds the potency of gold.
Long may you live to fill the part—
Assigned you, in these “Latter days”
And unto God let ev’ry heart,
Ascribe the glory, and the praise.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
GOLDEN WEDDING.

	Bishop John Brown, and his wife
Elizabeth, celebrated their Golden Wed-
ding on Monday the 21st of May, 1894.
	Their children tendered them a reception at
the City Hall, where relatives and friends
gathered to do the aged couple honor.
Loving hands had artistically decorated the
hall. In an alcove, designed by Sister M.
A. Winters, tastefully arranged with lace
curtains draped back with a golden chain
and ornamented with flowers, were seated
the bride and groom. On the walls hung
family groups and historic pictures encased
in golden frames. In a conspicious place,
hung the old rifle, well remembered by the
pioneer camp, which in the hands of Brother
Brown never failed to bring in their game,
he thus earned the title of "the hunter of
the camp." The guests began to arrive at
4 p. m., and offered greeting to the vener-
able couple, with appropriate sentiments.
	Social conversation was indulged in till

[Column 2]
called to order by Master of Ceremonies,
Alex. Bullock. Elder Edward Stevenson
offered the opening prayer which was fol-
lowed by singing “Love at home,” full
chorus. Short speeches were made by
Pioneer Battalion veterans, old reminiscenses
were brought to mind. At 6. p. m. one
hundred and twenty-five guests partook of
refreshments, the tables made an imposing
appearance with lovely floral decorations
and immense wedding cake appropriately
ornamented.
	After the inner man was satisfied Brother
J. J. Hayes rendered an original poem
which reflected great credit upon the author.
Mrs. F. E. Stewart gave a retrospect on
the life work of this venerable couple,
which was a pleasing surprise to Brother
and Sister Brown as it carried them back to
the scenes of youth, courtship and marriage,
and along through the varied changes of
life.
	Letters of congratulation and regret were
read by Brother Jas. T. Thorne from their
Son James L. who is attending the Univer-
sity at Ann Arbor also from several of their
daughters who were unable to be present.
	Brother and Sister Stevenson addressed
the assemblage, also speeches from other
guests interspersed with songs and recita-
tions.
	A response was given by the venerable
couple, expressing their sincere gratitude to
all who had contributed to the entertain-
ment of the evening. All convention-
alities were laid aside, a spirit of peace and
love pervaded the assembly and all agreed
that it was the most enjoyable time they
had ever experienced.
	This was entered upon the ward records
as the first Golden Wedding celebrated in
Pleasant Grove. M. A. W.

A JUBILEE WEDDING.
	I had never contemplated the grandeur
of a Golden Wedding until the one we
have just celebrated here in Pleasant
Grove that of the Honored Pioneer and
Patriarch John Brown and his wife Eliza-
beth our beloved and respected President
of the Relief Society for twenty four years.
That two mortal beings could dwell to-
gether on this mundane sphere and sail
down the stream of time past the snags,
the rocks and the sandbars, the cataracts and
whirlpools on past the seven times seven
mile stone, that mark the long years of
their voyage, and faithfully kept the cove-
nants they made at the altar, and at length
reach in safety the Jubilee Harbor, is a
gloriously pleasing reflection and pays a
high compliment to the nobility of their
souls, and pronounces their marriage not a
failure but a grand success; and what
makes it still more beautiful is—that this
noble pair has lived in the Patriarchal order
of marriage for forty years and in connection
with the other helpmates, have reared
three families of children to manhood and
womanhood, and no divorce court has
marred the sanctity of the home circle; this
true hearted man has sent no Hagar forth
to wander in the wilderness, and this faith-
ful woman has driven no Ishmael forth to
die in the desert—then we must certainly
acknowledge that this noble couple of the
nineteenth century have out done even
Abraham and Sarah of old, proving that
the Patriarchal Order of marriage with them
has not been a failure either.
	This brave Pioneer who stood beside the
Apostle Orson Pratt, was the first to look

[Column 3]
upon the now far-famed valley of the Great
Salt Lake, but unlike Moses the leader of
old who had a similar privilege, this good
man has entered into the promised land
dwelling here for many years cultivating
the soil, making homes, instructing and
blessing the people. And the numerous
posterity of this Patriarchal family are now
spreading forth, helping to populate the fair
valleys of Ephraim and becoming a
strength in the midst of Zion. When
death had entered this goodly household
and a portion of these children were bereft
of a mother’s love—this noble mother in
Israel took the orphans beneath her shel-
tering wing, thus adding testimony to
testimony of her integrity to the cause she
had espoused.
	And this righteous man although thrice
married, his deportment towards the op-
posite sex has been all that the most
fastidious could demand, in this respect
exceling King David himself; and when
missionary duties called this zealous elder
forth to journey in distant lands how brave-
ly the faithful wife held the home fort,
laboring with her might for the sustenance
and well being of her household; and when
their earthly work is finished and they
reach the golden shore, who shall say
that he will not be an Apostle of the Lamb
in our Father’s Kingdom and she a Priestess
by his side.
ONE OF THE GUESTS.


WOMAN’S SOCIAL AND LITERARY
			     CLUB.
	A NUMBER of the ladies of Pleasant
Grove met at the residence of Miss Emma
Larson on Oct. 11th, 1893, for the purpose
of organizing a woman’s club for social and
literary improvement. The following of-
ficers were elected. Mrs. F. E. Stewart
president, Miss Emma Larson first Vice
President, Miss P. E. Brown second Vice
President, Grace Mayhen Secretary, Vina
Thorne, Treasurer. After some discussion
it was concluded to call the club “Sorosis”
after the first Woman’s Club that was or-
ganized for social and literary advancement.
Ten members were enrolled. We hold
parlor sessions every Wednesday evening
at the residence of someone of the mem-
bers. Our regular work consists of study
of United States History, Pronunciation
of words—Readings from Popular Authors
and specially prepared subjects. We have
met with the usual difficulties of members
joining and becoming tired,but our increase
has equaled our decrease and we still have
a membership of ten. We have some
very active members and have made marked
progress since our organization. We have
read an account of the Utah Federation of
Clubs, which reminded us that we had not
yet sent in our report.
GRACE MAYHEN, Sec.
Pleasant Grove June, 21st 1894.


MRS. KATE CHASE is writing the biogra-
phy of her father. She lives in the old
home at Edgewood, where Salmon P. Chase
lived while Chief Justice of the United
States. She has managed the estate for
many years, and has changed its appearance
from a farm into a park.


Woman’s Exponent.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	JULY15,1894.


[Column 1]
SALTAIR.
A FAMOUS PLEASURE RESORT.
THIS year Saltair has carried off the
palm of all the numerous resorts and re-
treats, for rest, recreation and enjoyment.
It has had its praises sounded loud and
long, by tourists, strangers, and visitors; in
song, in poetry, in prose, and it has been
done up in all styles of pictures and photo-
graphs, and yet no one has been able so far
to create for the imagination a picture as
gloriously grand as Saltair and the Lake
itself at sunset.
Old Folks day has been a great day for the
last nineteen years but the ninth of July at
Saltair this year, was the climax of old
folks celebrations. There were more old
people and more young people to wait on
them, and the place was such a suprise to
them, and to one looking on: the great
variety of nationalities and the wonderful
dissimilarity in face and expression as well
as in dress, it was a study from life not
soon to be forgotten.
The Old Folks Choir and Brother God-
dard “did themselves proud” with their
singing, and the Committee were untiring
ing in their efforts to see that all these
fourteen hundred had a good time.
Brother C. R. Savage was missed however
from the jolly crowd, but there were lots of
Bishops and the good sisters of the Relief
Society, and the tables were loaded with
everything good to eat.
President Woodruff, the veteran pioneer,
spoke to the assembly, also Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith,
but unfortunately only those nearest the
platform could hear what was said, but felt
sure it was all true and good.
The Bicycle drill was a genuine amuse-
ment, and every body enjoyed it immensely,
judging from the vociferous applause.
There were a great many red ribbon
badges indicating seventy years, and quite
a number of blue ones marking the four
score, and a few, five I believe, white ones
for four score and two. Father Tucker, for
many years Heber C. Kimball’s gardener,
was the oldest man present, and Sarah Free,
ninety four, the oldest woman. The meet-
ing and greeting of these old people is one
of the happy features of the gathering. It
is so kindly, so intensely real, and so es-
sentially different to the ordinary everyday
handshaking and bowing of the people who
are pursuing ordinary business pursuits and
occupations. In no other place in the

[Column 2]
world that we know of has this honored
custom obtained, of giving the old peoplo of
all classes, races and conditions, a general
holiday each year, except in our own dear
Utah. Long may it continue, and the
young people learn the valuable lesson of
true respect and veneration for the aged
whose pleasures are few, and whose days
often seem wearisome and cheerless as time
rolls on in the descent of life.

The Home Industry Association had an
excursion to Saltair on the 12th, and
drew a large crowd. The inducements
were somewhat suggestive and quite uni-
que, as there was to be a handsome chair
for the woman longest resident in the val-
ley, and a handsome lady’s cape for the
woman who had been longest engaged in
philanthropic work, and so on and so on.
Then there was to be quite a musical pro-
gram, recitation and speeches, and al-
together the affair promised a great deal
beforehand in the way of entertainment,
and the people wore not disappointed in
this respect.
The young, the gay and the beautiful
were there assembled, the aged matrons
and stalwart veterans, and the day was fine
for bathing and the music inspiring to
dancers. However first came the program,
Mrs. W. S. McCornick, President of the
Home Industry Association, presided, and
the band gave a charming musical selection.
B. F. Grant Esq. made the opening address
giving the object and aims of the Associa-
tion, he was loudly applauded.
The Harmony Club, all excellent male
voices gave a choice vocal selection in good
voice and pleasing style, the Sicilian ten
lovely girls in white, sang Longfellow’s
poem, “Life is real, life is earnest,” in their
sweetest way, and were followed by Mrs.
Boyden an accomplished elocutionist, who
recited, “How Salvator Won The Race,”
the audience called for an encore, and she
gave a pretty love tale. Brief addresses
were made on the subject of home indus-
tries by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Doctor E. B.
Ferguson and the Reverend Dr. Iliff, then
came the distribution of the articles
mentioned. The chair was awarded to
Sister Louisa Norris Decker, the cape to
Sister M. Isabella Horne, and the three
pairs of suspenders to Brother George B.
Wallace, who was the oldest resident in
the valley as there were no pioneers
present, Brother Wallace and Sister Decker
who secured the chair came in September
1847—just a few weeks after the pioneers.

THE largest number of people gathered
at Saltair this year so far, was at the re-
union or celebration of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A., July 13th. The crowd was
too great to admit of much enjoyment ex-
cept to those who delight in bathing and
dancing. There was a regular program
and prizes were given for excellence in
music and composition but there were not
as many competitors as there should have
been to make it interesting, or to bring out
the talent of the young people, as such op-
portunities should. Financially the affair
was a great success, and to those who were
directly interested in making it profitable as
well as enjoyable, this fact must be an in-
tense satisfaction. Certainly there is need
of means to further the interests of any
organization and one so eminently calculated
to do great good as the Mutual Improve-
ment Associations should be sustained by
all legitimate methods so far as practicable.

[Column 3]
Sister Mary A. Freeze and her Counselors
and Aids, as also the Presidency of the
Young Men’s Associations, may be con-
gratulated on the outcome of their under-
taking.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE regret being compelled to leave over
matter already set for the paper but it is
unavoidable. An Ovation to Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor (though we publish the poem
read on the occasion,) and Countess
Wachtmeister, A Trip through Oneida
Stake and Susan B. Anthony’s Letter to
the Women of Utah, will appear in the
next number.
	THOSE interested in the EXPONENT are
reminded that this is the time for yearly
payment of subscription, and it is need-
less to add that money is necessary to main-
tain a newspaper. The actual need of a
woman’s paper in which to represent the
views, opinions and aims of the women of
a growing community like that of Utah,
aside from womens’ organizations which
really must have an organ for keeping in
touch with each other, should prompt every
one who has the public welfare, at heart, to
subscribe for the paper published in their
own interest.

MRS. PRISCILLA JENNINGS is about
opening a sewing class for young girls in a
cottage on her private grounds, and she
will in person superintend the affair, as-
sisted by one or two other ladies, who have
volunteered their services. It is purely a
charitable undertaking on her part, though
she is hopeful it may put those who become
efficient with the needle,in the way of earn-
ing money, and qualify them for positions
where they can earn an honorable livlihood.
Of course Mrs. Jennings can only take a
limited number under her care, but there
are other ladies who might “go and do
likewise.”

THERE was a very pleasant family
gathering at the old homestead of Brother
and Sister Edward Stevenson on Wednes-
day afternoon and evening July 12th. The
company was mostly the Stevensons,
Clarks, Wilcoxs and Burtons, and a very 
happy crowd they seemed to be. There
were a few old friends not exactly relatives,
the Hornes and Sisters B. W. Smith, S.
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and one or two
more. The guests did ample justice to the
elaborate dinner, and the conversation was
a genuine feast in itself. There was some
excellent music by members of the family,
and a fair showing of babies; among them
a pair of twins exceptionally fine children.
Brother Stevenson has been a great traveler
and always has interesting reminiscences to
relate of the early days, as well as of his
journeyings in other lands. Such social
gatherings promote good feeling among
friends and leave pleasant memories for
days to come.

ON Saturday afternoon, June 16th ult a
company of ladies met at the residence of
Sister Julia C. Howe in honor of her birth-
day anniversary which occurred on the 17th,
and being Sunday the previous day was
chosen for the visit. The same day was,
also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Maria W. Wilcox, therefore it was a
sort of double celebration. It was the
season of roses, and the beautiful parlor of
Sister Howe’s lovely home was like a


veritable bower of beauty and fragrance.
There were about thirty guests, and con-
versation was general until after tea, when
a request was made by the hostess that
Sister Horne act as chairman, and the
sisters express their feelings and sentiments,
as she wished to hear from all present. A
hymn was sung, a prayer offered, and short
addresses were made by almost every one
in the room. All who spoke expressed
their love for Slsters Howe and Wilcox and
their appreciation of their noble work in
the interest of the several organizations of
which they were both earnest and active
members. It was a day long to be re-
membered for the sweet spirit of love and
good will that flowed from heart to heart.
To both of these dear sisters the EXPONENT
extends sincere congratulations for many
happy returns of the day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS DAY.

	Is it possible that old folks day will be
recognized this year, I must say that it
hardly seemed probable, for since monopoly 
and labor have had so hard a struggle to
know which will be victorious, it seems to
paralyze all business affairs: but I am happy
to learn that it has not affected the love
that our people have for each other; and I
hope it may never hinder us from placing
our affections upon those who have proved 
themselves worthy of our love, by adher-
ing to sound and true principles.
	Old folks day is truly a joyful one to the
aged, and seems to be to the youth as well,
for while they are paying so much respect
to the aged they really appear to those per-
sons angelic, and give us a foretaste of
heaven, and why this great demonstration,
on an occasion like this?
	Is it not to show that they have not for-
gotten the time, when their parents
welcomed them to earth? And Oh! how
tenderly and faithfully they watched and
cared for those tender plants, hoping they
might become plants of renown in our 
Father’s Kingdom. And, now it is well
that this love should be given in return to
parents and grand-parents not only our own
but all the aged as well whose love has
been, and still is, sacred, forming so many
silken ties. I feel that these are days of
inspiration, and those persons, or that one
who invented, or proposed this arrangement
was surely inspired by the good spirit to do
so.
	How refreshing it is to those who are on
the down hill side of life to meet old friends
on an occasion like this: also our young
friends who make the time so joyful. And
since love is a prominent attribute of the
Deity should it not be cherished toward
worthy objects, and where shall they be
found if not those dear ones who have been
climbing the rugged steep of life for so
many years earnestly seeking for improve-
ment in all the duties of life, and with an
earnest zeal, we find it brings its own re-
ward now when they are aged and infirm.
St. Paul once said “Give honor to whom
honor is due, love to whom love and fear to
whom fear.” 
	And is this the motive which prompts
our youth today. Oh yes, you can see it in
the expression of the eye and every feature
of the face, while they are passing delicate
refreshments, also in their song of welcome
to the aged ones, and how do the aged feel
at this time? They feel to bless them in
the sincerity of their hearts; tears of grati-

[Column 2]
tude may be seen starting in the eye while
they gaze with love and admiration on the
lovely group who are so devoted to their
aged friends with words of welcome.
	Yesterday being Old Folks’ Day, I
must tell you of another pleasant time we
had in meeting old friends who still remain,
although not all that we met last year, for
each year we find that some few of them
have been called home; their mission on
earth is ended, and they have gone to meet
loved ones who have gone before and no
doubt they have a joyful meeting.
	This time the Excursion met at Saltair, a
lovely watering place on the border of the
Lake. Here we arrived about 10 o’clock,
that is the aged ones, and a goodly number
it was: for each year a few more have
reached the age of seventy which keeps up
our number and much more, but all are
welcomed by the Committee as well as their
friends.
	Cars were coming and going all day
bringing friends of the aged people, we
were made happy in seeing the First
Presidency and hearing them address the
people.
	President Woodruff spoke of the changes
which have taken place in this valley since
our arrival. He asked “Did we ever ex-
pect to see cars running by Electricity or
see such a structure as this at Saltair?” His
remarks were interesting and his voice
strong and clear although he is eighty-seven
years of age.
	We have twenty-three Wards in this City
and each ward is supposed to set a table of
their own, which would accomodate the
aged of their ward and the friends who
came from other settlements. The tables
seemed well provided with eatables cooked
at home, only hot tea and coffee, besides
lemonade and nice fruit and flowers made
the table complete, while the salt air gave
us a good appetite, and the cooking was
generously praised.
	At 4 o’clock another large company
came in, and as the cars left, took as many
home to the city: I myself being one of the
number. We arrived home in good season
well satisfied with the day’s amusement,
and I fancy that I was strengthened and
greatly benefited by my trip with other of
my aged friends, I also felt to offer up an
earnest prayer for all who felt to contribute
to this day’s entertainment, that the measure
they mete out may be meted out to them
again four fold, and they may possess the
same happy spirit that we felt that day.
	With Sincere Respect,
						M. E. K.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, June
30th, 1894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “Oh!
Jesus the Giver." Prayer by Counselor
Webb. Continued by singing, “Oh my
Father.” Sister Horne apologized for
coming in a little late, was unavoidably
detained, was more anxious than usual to-
day as it had been her desire to commemor-
ate the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
assassination of the Prophet Joseph. “It was
my intention to have the hymn, “A poor
way faring men of grief” etc, sung at the
meeting, it being the hymn the Prophet
asked to have sung on the day of his
Assassination; he asked to have it sung a
second time, but before his request could

[Column 2]
be complied with, the MOB were upon them:
I felt very desirous of holding Memorial
srevices on the fiftieth anniversary of the
Martyrdom of the Prophet, I called to see
Brother Angus M. Cannon about it; but
was unable to see him. I think it is a day
that should be remembered by all the Lat-
ter Day Saints.”
	By request, Sister Lydia Alder read the
hymn. Brothers Jenson and Binder,
having come in to lay before the meeting
an item of business, opportunity was given
them. Brother Jensen said, “We owe you
some explanation, coming in uninvited.
We are here in the interest of the aged.
We contemplate giving them an Excursion
to Saltair, have invited them to partake of
our hospitality, we expect several hundred
from out side Stakes. Probably a thousand
or more from this Stake. We hope the
Saints will be on hand as they have always
been before, hope the sisters from the 
country wards will come forward as usual.
Let us give Country visitors a Royal Wel-
come. We have been grandly entertained
by our Country Friends on previous oc-
casions. Let us manifest our appreciation;
making them as welcome and happy, it
will be a day long to be remembered. We
would like each Ward to prepare for at
least fifty more than their own aged. Fur-
ther instructions will be given through the
Bishops of the various wards. Addressing
Sister Horne, Brother Jenson said, “I
would now like to speak on some other sub-
ject. I want to say the Relief Society
keeps the most complete records of any
organization I know of in the Church. I
also find they take good care of the records.
There are exceptions of course. We have
in some instances, had to go to the Relief
Society for data concerning Bishops.”
Spoke a short time on the Martyrdom of
the Prophet, had recently visited Carthage.
“Its my opinion the Prophet was killed
while in the window it being so near the
ground, it seems to me impossible he could
have been hurt by falling so short a dis-
tance. The old Jail is now used as a dwell-
ing house, the room in which they were
shot, as a bed room. The old well has
been filled up, and a beautiful flower
garden takes its place. The lady in charge
is very pleasant, often giving a bunch of
flowers as a token of remembrance to those
who visit there. I am pleased to state we
have, at last, been able to obtain the old
records of David Whitmer, much of im-
portance to our people is contained therein.”
Made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Horne said, “I am pleased that
Brother Jenson has touched upon the sub-
ject he has. I well remember the first time
I shook hands with the Prophet I was
thrilled through as with an electric shock.
I could testify to the whole world I knew
he was a Prophet of God. Think of what
a mighty man he must have been, I have
heard him tell of his first vision. No other
mortal man ever accomplished as much as
he did. His life was threatened repeatedly,
yet was spared to complete his wonderful
work. Tongue cannot tell what joy I ex-
perience in being permitted to live in this
period of time.” Exhorted sisters to be
faithful in all things pertaining to the
Gospel, etc.
	Sister Sarah Kimball said, “I am afraid
I cannot control my feelings, I was present
at the meeting of the Relief Society, the
third meeting, I think, when we received
the first intimation of the Prophet going
home. He told the Sisters to cultivate love,


[Column 1]
peace and charity. Said the day is not far
distant when you will wish to hear my
voice, but will not. A sister at the close of
the meeting, said, ‘Brother Joseph, why
did you hurt our feelings?’ All present
felt a depression, the very elements
mourned. A dreadful gloom was felt for
days before the Martyrdom.” Made other
interesting remarks.
	Brother Binder spoke a short time giving
further instructions regarding the excursion
of the Old Folks; thought all should be in-
terested in aiding in so good a cause. “We
have had good times on previous occasions.
There is nothing should give us more
pleasure, than making the aged happy in
their declining years.”
	Sister Brown spoke a short time on the
same subject. “I knew when I went into
the waters of Baptism that Joseph was a
Prophet of God, have never had a doubt to
this day.” Related a dream, where she
was on the water, the ship on fire, of try-
ing to have faith to walk on the water.
“I desire to live so that my life will be ac-
ceptable in the sight of God,I ask the same
blessing on all my Sisters.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps related her experience
on the day of the assassination. Was
working in the garden, when something
like a panorama passed before her, could
see the prison and the soldiers, saw Brother
Hyrum fall, cried out ‘‘they have shot
him,” being asked “who” answered “I
dont know.” “Who did it look like.”
“I answered, ‘like the picture of Brother
Joseph,’ up to this time I had never seen
him.” Closed her remarks by exhorting
the Sisters to faithfulness.
	Another Sister spoke of the Prophet as a
mighty man of God. The Savior had his
blood spilled for our sins. Our loved
Prophet sealed his testimony with his blood.
I feel to say “God Bless the aged, they
have borne much for the Gospel, I take 
great comfort in reading the book called,
“Women of Mormondom.” Think of the
severe trials they have passed through. I
have trials but I praise God continually for
his goodness, in giving me a knowlege
that this is the Church and Kingdom of
God.”
	Sister Alder, "I have felt the Martyrdom
more than ever before. I feel that all fain
would have kept the Prophet with us but
he could not be spared to us. I feel that I
know him, although I never saw him, it is
for us to be faithful, and testify of the
Savior, and of Joseph as a Prophet; and
they will surely testify to the Lord of us.
The question will be asked ‘What work
have you done?’ I have too much to live
for to neglect my duties here. We know
our loved ones who are gone, are safe. We
must prepare to meet them.”
	Sang “Hail! to the Prophet” etc.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the pleasant
time the Temple workers had enjoyed at
Brigham City. “The instructions we re-
ceived were treasures, Brother Woodruff
spoke on the sign of the times. Testified
that the Angel had gone forth to pour out
the vial of his wrath on the nations of the
earth. Let us be true Saints, doing to
others as we would be done by, having
charity, love and good will for all.”
	Sister M E. Kimball gave a brief sketch
of her experience with the Saints in
Nauvoo, of her admiration of the life of the
prophet. The many trials she had passed
through for the Gospel, with it all there had
never arisen a doubt in her mind in regard
to the truth of this Latter-day work.

[Column 2]
President Horne made some closing re-
marks, spoke of the necessity of living
near the Lord, of being faithful to all duties
particularly to mothers to impress upon the
minds of their children the principles of the
Gospel. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
	Sang, “Weep! Weep! not for me,”
benediction by Brother Andrew Jenson.

	VITLAB YOUNG, Sec.


196 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ETHICS OF THE GREEN BAY
			TREE.

		BY W. H. WILKINS.
	“I MYSELF,” said the Psalmist, “have
seen the ungodly in great power: and
flourishing like a green bay tree.” The
Psalmist said that a long time ago; probably
a good many people said the same thing
before him; certainly a good many have
echoed it since. If it were ever true at all,
it is true of our day and generation. In
the circumstances of modern life the
spectacle of the wicked flourishing and the
good going to the wall is one of almost
every-day occurrence. It is an object-les-
son, though it is not one which squares
with bread-and-butter views of life, or the
axioms of copybook morality. It is the
truth, though we may blink at it. As St.
Jerome once put it, since offences must
come of the truth, it is better that they
should come from the truth being known
than from the truth being concealed. If
we face facts and sweep aside illusions, we
shall recognize that in the struggle of life
to-day the chances are largely in favor of
those whom the Psalmist called the “un-
godly.”
	Let us look at politics, since here, per-
haps more than anywhere else, we may feel
the pulse of a people. There are certain
notable exceptions. But who are often the
most successful politicians—as the world
counts success? Are they not the men who
are cleverest in office at evading the pledges
which they have given when out, who
burn what they once adored and adore what
once they burned? Are they not those who
astutely trim their sails to the passing
breeze, and who show a nice faculty for
pandering to the prejudices of the hour?
But the men who look above and beyond
all this, who count self as nothing, and
worldly advancement as dross, who do
right because it is right, heedless of censure
and fearless of consequence—such men
die as Gordon died, alone, deserted, betrayed
or as Hildebraud died, who cried on his
death-bed, “I have loved righteousness and
hated iuiquity, therefore I die in exile.”
Such as these latter are said to be madmen,
enthusiasts, fanatics, unpractical people,
and for those others is reserved the praise,
and the power, and the glory. With this
code of political morals there is also a new
nomenclature. If a man lie he is said to
be diplomatic, if he trick he is a politician,
if he swallow his pledges wholesale he is a
true statesman, if he commit a shameless
volte-face he recognizes the "onward march
of the forces of the future.” The “flow-
ing tide” is with him.
	But politics can by no means claim a
monopoly on the Green Bay Tree. Its
branches also shelter Society—with a big
S—bien entendu. Here more than any-
where else the false god Mammon is bowed
down to and worshipped. Dives holds
court and his halls are thronged. What
matter if vulgarity and vice jostle one
another in his ante-chambers, and mean-

[Column 2]
ness and avarice meet at his gates? What
matter it if his wealth be amassed by the
“sweating” of his industrial slaves? He
has amassed it, that is enough. Society
will flock to his parties, eat his dinners,
drink his champagne, and will go away and
abuse him, most probably But it will
abuse him behind his back; to his face it
will fawn upon him and everything that is
his. In the marriage mart of modern
Babylon, Dives old or young may mate with
the fairest and most patrician of the land.
It matters nothing if he be shallow-brained,
vicious, unprincipled, unwholesome in body
and mind—he is Dives, that is enough.
Parents vie with one another to secure him
for their daughters, and the daughters—
the pity of it!—eagerly second their efforts.
Here again we find the same objection to
calling things by their right names. A
mother sells her daughter in loveless mar-
riage for wealth or position, or the daughter
sells herself, and it is called “making a
good match.” The Church blesses, and
the world approves. The woman in the
street sells herself for half-a-crown that she
or her children may not starve. But she is
spurned, shunned, a Pariah, a vile thing fit
only to be cast out and trodden under foot
of men! Her very existence is ignored by
the Society which is responsible for her
creation. Yet may it not be that in the
eyes of Him from Whom no secrets are hid
this one is justified rather than the other?
	In commercial life the Green Bay Tree
flourishes exceedingly. It is admitted that
if a man would live and avoid bankruptcy
he must do as others do. In other words
he must “Cheat and be cheated”—practice
a species of commercial cannibalism. If
one tells the same lie very often, by a
curious process of self delusion one at last
almost gets to believe that it is the truth.
Even so in the modern mart certain dis-
honest practices have been practised so
long that, by prescription, they have al-
most come to be considered honest.
Adulteration of goods, false values, bribes,
breaches of trust—these things, not called
by these names perhaps, are done under the
shadow of the green tree. In the dry, the
plucking of pigeons, false and misleading
prospectuses, cooked balance-sheets, bubble
companies, go merrily on. Company pro-
moters, “financial agents,” and such like
vermin, fatten and flourish; their dupes and
victims starve. Men of light and leading,
naked and unashamed, give their name to
some fraudulent scheme to serve as decoys
to the widow and the orphan. These emi-
nent ones astutely sell their shares before
the crash comes, but the widow and the
orphan are ruined. What of it? The
starving man who steals a roll from a
baker’s shop is punished with the utmost
rigor of the law, but such men as these,
who devour widows’ houses and for pre-
tence make long prayers, go scot free, and
live and die in the odor of sanctity.
	Ex uno disce omnes. The canting
grocer who sings psalms in his little Bethel
and goes home to sand the sugar; the
Society woman who cheerfully confesses in
a fashionable church that she is “a misera-
ble sinner,” and then struts off to the Park
to backbite her neighbors; the honored
head of a household who unctuously be-
gins the day with long-winded family
prayers, and spends the rest of it nagging
the wife of his bosom, bullying his children
and worrying his servants; the titled
capitalist who heads subscription lists for
promoting the Gospel among the foreign


[Column 1]
heathen with money rack-rented from the
home-made heathen, who huddle in his
slum-dwellings a mile or two, may be, from
his beloved Exeter Hall;—these and many
more belong to the same goodly company.
These all wax fat and kick, as Jehushrun
did of old. “Lo, these are the ungodly,
these prosper in the world, and these have
riches in possession.”
	Yet they are not ungodly as the world
counts ungodliness, neither are they dis-
honest as the world judges dishonesty. 
They have not placed themselves without
the pale of Society; they have not come
within the lash of the law, they have not 
broken the greatest commandment of all:
‘‘Thou shall not be found out.”
	On the contrary they have succeeded.
They have large balances at their bankers
and when one has that one has all the
virtues. The world worships success, and 
is indifferent to the means by which it is
obtained. But it metes out terribly hard
measure to failure. And yet—surely
things are so that the chances are largely in
favor of good failing. The poor, honest
man who pays his just dues, defrauds no
one, helps others, what chance has he in the
race for gold? He starts handicapped by
scruples, weighed down by a conscience. 
Ten to one, from being poor he becomes
poorer, and dies in want. And then of
course he has no virtues. He cannot be
righteous since he is begging his bread.
His misfortunes are his own fault, he has
brought them on himself. He has made
his bed,so must he lie. The snug Pharisee
passes him by on the other side, and
sententiously remarks that, “The way of
transgressors is hard.”
	Of course to those who believe in the
eternal justice of things—these things mat-
ter not. They are merely ‘‘temporal
troubles” which pass and fade away. As
Paley complacently argues, the future
system of rewards and punishments will
make all things equal. But not all of us
have the “blessed assurance” of Paley.
The good virtuous ones, those who lead
honest, sober and cleanly lives, may per-
haps be excused an occasional spasm of
impatience that the Mills should grind so
slowly. In the meantime, there is a ter-
rible temptation to go and do likewise.
They may remember that, after all, there
is high sanction for the maxim to make
friends of the Mammon of Unrighteousness
and they may be mindful also that the
children of this world are in their genera-
tion wiser than the children of light.
	Yet surely there is a more excellent way
for the children of light than this. They
may turn the other side of the shield, and
in the reflex thereof they will see some-
thing of the brightness which clings around
“whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever
things are lovely, whatsoever things are of
good report.” They will see also that
these people and these conditions are the
outcome of the two factors which rule all
our lives, heredity and environment, and
this thought will make them very pitiful.
If they be true children of light they will
not stop at pity, but will set to work to re-
move the causes which have made such a 
state of things possible. Their labor will 
not be in vain, for in spite of much to dis-
courage, there is much to bid them hope.
If man be not wholly good, neither is he
wholly bad. Life is not all leaden-hued.
In the windows of a squalid East-end slum
may sometimes be seen, in spite of grime
and fog and smuts, bright-hued flowers,

[Cloumn 2]
tended by loving hands, little bits of color
in the all-pervading gloom. So too in the
throng of dull, unlovely lives, some pure
unselfish souls may be found, happy, and
diffusing their happiness around them.
The children of light must gather these into
their union—a union which shall link to-
gether all those that love in the service of
all those that suffer, a union of all those
whose religion is not dogma but deeds.
One will work in one way, one in another,
but each will strive to make his little cor-
ner of God’s earth something better than
he found it. In this way alone will the axe
be laid at the root of the Green Bay Tree,
and the place where it now flonrishes will
know it no more.—The Humanitarian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake convened in the As-
sembly Hall June 15th, 1894. President
M. I. Horne presiding. On the stand with
the President was Counselor E. S. Taylor,
Aids Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder,
President Zina D. Young and others.
Meeting opened with singing, “Come,
come ye Saints,” etc. Prayer by Sister
Margaret Steele. Singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee,” etc.
Minutes of previous morning session read and
approved. Roll called and responded to
as follows, nineteen branches represented
by Presidents, ten by Counselors, one by
Secretary, and one by Treasurer; making
thirty-one branches, leaving seventeen with-
out representation. President Horne in her
opening remarks spoke of the peculiar
times in which we are living and of the
necessity of living near to our Heavenly
Father. The things we are passing
through had been predicted and we should
be prepared to meet them. Expressed her
regrets at there being so few officers
present, thought they did not honor their
positions; if they were not alive to their
duties they could not expect much of the
members. They should stimulate and set
good examples to the rest, spoke further on
the duties and responsibilities devolving
upon officers of Relief Society, and of the
importance of using our time and ability in
the building up of Zion. Verbal reports,
first Ward, President Steele, second,
President Bassett; third, Counselor Smith;
fourth, Counselor Sperry; seventh, Counse-
lor Cooper; eighth, Treasurer Morris; ninth
President Mair; tenth, Counselor Pyper;
eleventh, Counselor Morris; twelfth, Presi-
dent Druce; thirteenth, President, Grant;
fourteenth, President Wilcox; sixteenth,
President Reid; seventeenth, Secretary
Bull; eighteenth, Counselor Wright; nine-
teenth President Neal; twentieth, Presi-
dent Miller; twenty-first, Counselor Taylor;
twenty-second, President Whipple; Center
Ward, President Whittaker; Brighton,
President Hazon; Draper, Secretary Burn-
ham; Farmer’s Ward, President Turnbow;
Granger, President Porter; North Jordan,
President Pixton; Pleasant Green, Presi-
dent Hurst; Riverton, President Silcock;
Sugar House, Counselor Hardy; South
Cottonwood, President Rawlins; Sandy,
President Olsen; Union, Counselor Griffiths.
All testified to the good spirit that prevailed
in their branches, and the good being done
among the poor, President Horne said she
was pleased with the reports. Thought

[Column 2]
meeting should be held twice a month, it
it was the order in the first organization,
thought the time could be profitably spent.
Spoke of the liberality of the people in
donating to the poor, and made other re-
marks pertaining to the Relief Society.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
Doxology. Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne were her Counselors,
E. S. Taylor and H. M. Whitney, Aids—
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, Presi-
dent Zina D. Young and President Angus
M. Cannon. Opened with singing, “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee,” etc. Minutes of
previous afternoon read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young addressed the
Conference, said she was happy to see so
many present, the more there were the
greater strength we would have. Spoke of
the work being done in the Temple, and
the holy influence that existed there. Gave
instructions in regard to holding Relief
Society meetings, said business and other
meetings should be separate.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made remarks,
giving good counsel to Presidents of the Re-
lief Society. They should be alive to their
duties, and should instruct members in re-
gard to theirs. Said when each Relief
Society was reorganized, they should
send for the Stake Officers as a matter of
courtesy; was pleased and surprised at the
donations that had been received, thought
the Lord had blessed the efforts of the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Whitney said it
had been sometime since she had the
pleasure of meeting us, she had been weak
but the Lord had strengthened her. Spoke
of the necessity of meeting together often
to partake of the bread of life, and bore a
faithful testimony of God’s goodness to her.
	Dr. E. B. Furgeson addressed the meeting
on the subject of Home Industry, spoke of
a Home Industry Association that was to
be organized, the object of which was to
devise means to care for the destitute this
coming winter, and to furnish work for
women as a great many would need em-
ployment. The membership fee would be
twenty-five cents. Pointed out the benefits
that would be derived from the movement,
and urged those present to take an interest
in the same. President Angus M. Cannon
felt gratified with what he had heard. It
had brought to his mind the first organiza-
tion, which was then called a Benevolent
Society, and related some pleasing incidents
of the same, said Emma Smith was the
first who held the dignity of President, and
spoke of her as being a high-minded noble
woman, and said she never made the af-
fidavits attributed to her. The name of the
organization was changed to Relief Society
at her request. Spoke of the Prophet
Joseph giving the first donation of $5.00
Spoke at some length on the proper or-
ganization of the Relief Society, gave good
advice to the sisters, and hoped they would
prove efficient workers. President M. I.
Horne felt to thank Brother Cannon for
his words of counsel and instruction.
Urged the sisters to take the EXPONENT, it
was the only woman’s paper and should be
sustained; made other closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
Benediction by President Angus M.
Cannon.
ELLA W. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]			
			WAYNE STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
in the Thurber Meeting House, May 28th,
our Stake President W. E. Robinson and
Counselor Bastain and other Brethren were
present. President Jane S. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice in
the day of Salvation.” Prayer offered by
Counselor G. Bastian. Singing, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Minutes of last conference read and ap-
proved. President J. S. Coleman said she
was pleased to meet in conference and to
see so many present, prayed the spirit of
the Lord to rest on the speakers; expected
the representatives of the local branches of
the Relief Society to give reports; that it
would also be a fitting time for mothers to
advance ideas pertaining to rearing our
children in faith and good works. The
branches of Relief Society were represented,
Loa, by Counselor Elizabeth C. Jeffrey;
Thurber, President Sarah Meeks; Caneville,
President Eliza Rust; Blue Valley, Presi-
dent Mary Ann Lords; Eldrich, President
Theresa Coombs; all were reported in good
condition. The Lectures on Faith were the
leading subjects in their testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke of the
changes that are taking place, the trials of
raising a family, felt the Lord would be
merciful towards us if we strive to do our
duty towards our children, felt to sustain
the Priesthood, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Tisbah Hanks said, during con-
ference she had enjoyed a spiritual feast,
spoke on the training of children and the
gifts of the Gospel.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke upon the
privileges the young people enjoy and of
their Improvement Associations. Gave good
counsel to young mothers, said it was their
privilege to enjoy the revelations of God to
direct them in raising their families if they
seek after it.
	Sister Sarah A. Robinson spoke upon the
duties of the wife and mother in the ab-
sence of the husband in governing the
family and having the children take part in
family devotion.
	Counselor G. Bastain said he had listened
with pleasure to the reports and the good
subjects spoken upon; spoke appreciatively
of the labors of the Relief Society, referred
to his misson in Scandanavia where there
was a branch of the Church with only two
Brethren and the rest were Sisters, how
diligent they were in good works, the sub-
ject of economy was treated upon in good
style.
	Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Benediction by Elder. T. R.
Forsythe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a Prophet.” Prayer
offered by Bishop William Meeks. “Sing-
ing, “Do what is right.” 
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the instruction give at the April Relief
Society General Conference. The care of
our children, economy, silk culture, and
other subjects.
	Freemont Relief Society, reported by
President Louisa J. Taylor; Wilmoth,
Counselor Maria Jakeman; Teasdale,
President Mary E. Adams; Grover, Coun-
selor Ellen Stewart. The reports were
good, they also made the Lectures on Faith
a study.
	Sister Viola Brinkerhoff said we should

[Column 2]
raise our daughters to make good wives and
mothers, and be satisfied with their lot in
life, and to clothe and care for our children
that they may grow up healthy and strong.
Sisters Sarah Durphy, Albina Young, Eliza
Brinkerhoff, Mary Bullard all spoke, bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel
and made instructive remarks. President
J.S. Coleman felt the time had been well
spent, “we must all try to put in practice
what we have heard, it is the practical part
that counts for good or ill, let us show in
our lives that we are not only hearers of
the word but doers of it also.”
	President W. E. Robinson said the Relief
Society was a great support in the wards,
felt to sustain and encourage the sisters in
their labor of love, the teaching of the
faithful mother was felt for good the in-
fluence of the wife with the husband was
greater than we can comprehend; prayed
the blessing of God to rest on the Relief
Society that it may be prospered and be a
power for good among the people. Singing
“How firm a foundation.” Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersly.
				ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


OBITUARY.

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, April 24, 1894, in Salt Lake City Utah,
at the residence of her daughter Mrs. Annette
Katz, Ann Keat Player, at the ripe age of eighty-
four.
	Deceased was born in Bristol, England, February
22nd, 1810, and was the daughter of John Keat
and Elizabeth Kirby. She was baptized and con-
firmed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1853, by Elders John Lewis
and Dan Jones, while on a visit to her brother in
Cardiff, Wales.
	She, with her husband and children, left her
home in the spring of 1856 to come to the valley,
on their arrival at Omaha, her husband decided
not to go any farther that year, and by the advice
of the Elders, she sent her two eldest daughters
on before, in charge of Elder Chauncy Webb, to
whom she said when placing them in his care,
“I trust them with you, as I would with my
Heavenly Father” and although their father was
fearful of never seeing them again, the mother
had perfect faith and confidence, that she would
meet them again, when she should come to Utah,
which she did in 1858.
	When they first came to Utah they went to
Cottonwood Ward to live, where they were
neighbors of the late Sister Elizabeth Howard
for two years. From Cottonwood they moved to
Southern Utah, and lived in different places for
awhile, finally settling in Scipio, Millard Co.
	About the year 1873 Sister Player came to Salt
Lake City and purchased a home in the nine-
teenth ward where she resided until she died.
	She was for many years a teacher in the Sab-
bath School of that ward, and the Relief Society;
on the second of November 1877, she was set
apart to act as second Counselor to President
Rachel Whipple in the Relief Society which of-
fice she faithfully and efficiently filled, until the
ward was divided, when by the division President
Whipple was left in the newly created twenty
second Ward, making it necessary to organize a
new Society in the nineteenth Ward, First Coun-
selor Ann E. Neal being chosen as President,
Sister Player was chosen as first Counselor to her
in the Relief Society in the nineteenth Ward to
which office she was set apart on April 30th, 1890,
and which she filled at the time of her death.
	Sister Player was blessed wonderfully with the
gift of healing, many of her friends testifying of
their speedy restoration to health under her ad-
ministration.
	She was ever kind and charitable to the poor
and the afflicted, firm in her integrity to the Truth,
and passed peacefully away after much suffering
in the hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just. She leaves one son, three daughters,
twenty-one grand-children and twelve great-
grand children, besides a host of friends and fel-
low laborers to mourn her loss.
	Although we mourn her departure from our
midst, we rejoice that she has fought the good
fight, and kept the faith; and although death has


seemingly gained the victory, she will triumph
over death and the grave, which must yield her
up, in the resurrection morn, when the trump
shall sound, and the call go forth saying to the
sleeping dust, Arise!			C.C.R.W.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20 “
2:00 p. m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00 “
4:40 “
6:10 “
†10:10 “

*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

[Column 1]
S H. H. Clark,						D. E. BURLEY
Oliver W. Mink,						GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.
E. Ellery Anderson,		}Receivers.
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1 and 15, 1894.	No. 3-4.


CONTENTS:

	Susan B. Anthony’s Letter—Susan B. Anthony,
Silk Culture in Shantung. California Women a
Power—Nellie Blessing Eyster. U. W. P. C.
Ella W. Hyde. Admission of Utah. R. S. & P.
A. Reports. Hawaiian Islands—E. D. M. &
Oneida Stake. A Trip Through California—
Julia A. Anderson. Notes of W. S. A. Willard.
Obituary—E. H. Josephine Streeper Chase—S.
W. Richards.
	EDITORIAL:—Utah and Statehood. An Ova-
tion. Countess Wachtmeister. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Life’s Moment—Ninetta Eames.
Meditation—E. B. W. Dying—Etta L. Gilchrist.
A Remembered Exhortation—L. L. Greene
Richards.


LIFE’S MOMENT.

FROM birth till noontime on our separate ways
We went, each knowing naught of each, until
Upon a river’s wall our pathways met,
Where gazing soul bound on the amber flood
That drained the red life of the dying sun,
We paused to breathe the vastness of the scene.
Far off the city’s spires shot silver points
Above the purpling shadows of the hills;
Behind us rose the forest dark and dumb
Beneath night’s sable mantle. On the west,
Across a jasper sea, a new moon’s shadowy sail
Dipped lightly to the breath of languorous winds.
The sun’s last brand broke into starry lights
Of such unearthly radiance that my soul
Forgot its clay and stood alone with God.
Trembling you touched my hand, and drew my
eyes
To meet your own, and lo! the crowding years
Rolled backward like a scroll;—and stood revealed
The blessed visions of the long ago.
Come all too late for you and me to share.
	“The river knows its bounds. Forever on
	Between its mighty walls it seeks the sea.
	Within the deep-cut channels of our lives
	The same resistless force bears us along
	Our devious ways! The end is near!
	We, too, shall find the sea.”
The light went out
And in the dark our hands unloosed their clasp.
NINETTA EAMES.


[Column 1]
SUSAN B. ANTHONY'S LETTER.

Rochester, New York
July 21, 1894.
To the officers and members of the Woman
	Suffrage Association of Utah:
	My Dear Friends—I am delighted that
you are now to be in the Union of States,
as you have been for many years in the
union of the dear old National Woman Suf-
frage Association! On behalf of the forty-
three states and the District of Columbia
that compose our union, I congratulate you
not only because Utah is to be a state, but
because I hope and trust that her men, in
Constitutional Convention assembled, will,
like the noble men of Wyoming, ordain
political equality to her women. And I am
sure that you, my dear sisters, who have
not only tasted the sweets of liberty, but
also the bitterness, the humiliation of the
loss of the blessed symbol, will not allow
the organic law of your state to be framed
on the barbarism that makes women the
political slaves of men.
	Now in the formative period of your con-
stitution is the time to establish justice and
equality to all the people. That adjective
"male" once admitted into your organic
law, will remain there. Don't be cajoled
into believing otherwise! Look how the
women of New York have toiled and toiled
over forty years to get "male" out of our
constitution. Fifty thousand petitions and
appeals poured into the constitutional con-
vention of 1867, and we were sent away
empty-handed; and now over half a million
of the men and women of the state have
prayed this constitutional convention and
its suffrage committee reports 13 to 4 against
granting our prayer. And we can hardly
expect the 170 members to do much better
than the seventeen appointed by their
president to consider and report upon the
question.
	No, no! Don't be deluded by any
specious reasoning, but demand justice now.
Once ignored in your constitution—you’ll
be as powerless to secure recognition as are
we in the older states. And more, the men
of your convention should not allow the

[Column 2]
question to be separately voted upon, either.
But the suffrage clause should read, "Every
citizen of the age of 21," etc. I do feel
very, very anxious lest the enemies of equal
rights to women will be too powerful, but
I shall hope that truth and justice will pre-
vail and that Utah will present her state
constitution with political equality to wo-
men established beyond the power of re-
peal.
	I shall hardly be glad to have another
state come into the union with women dis-
franchised. I do not forget that Colorado
men did vote "male" out of their state
constitution, but that is the first and only
state, and I fear may continue to be, for in
no other state is there likely to be such a
favorable combination of incidents to help
secure the good result. Even Kansas may
be lost from lack of favorable conditions.
The Republican state constitution going
back on its party record and ignoring this
amendment—that is saying that silence on
the question was to be the plan of the
party's fall campaign—estops the great
educational work in one half of the political
meetings of the state, in which lay my
chief hope of carrying the amendment, or
rather one half of my hope; for now it will
be discussed only in the other half of the
political meetings—the Populist, instead of
in all the meetings of both of the great
parties of the state, as we had so earnestly
hoped, yes expected.
	But whatever comes to New York and
Kansas in our mighty struggle this fall, I
trust the women of Utah will never be
compelled to go through such a powerful
ordeal.
	With best love to each and all of you—
and best hope for your statehood—I am
very sincerely yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


MEDITATION.

MY soul hath gone forth in its wandering,
To the hills that are purple with light;
Those temples that tower everlasting,
In their majesty, grandeur and might.
And I list to the voices eternal.
That have sung thro’ the ages of time,
And I bask in the visions supernal,
That uplift me to regions sublime.

In the solitude, grand and imposing,
In the vastness of infinite space,
Are new mysteries ever unfolding,
Our wisdom is powerless to trace;
But I gaze with a fond admiration,
On the heavens, the earth and the sea.
'Till I’m lost in intense contemplation,
Of the beauteous life yet to be.

And a spirit within me is whispering,
Of the past with its wonderful scenes;
And around me such fancies are clustering,
As one seeth in visions and dreams.


And I see not alone the majestic,
	Which the beauties of nature unfold,
But I float in the realms of the mystic, 
	Of which poets and sages have told.

And in songs and in language entrancing,
	Like echoes from myriads of spheres,
Soft the footsteps of time are advancing,
	With a melody old as the years.
And the few who interpret the meaning,
	Of the music, so wondrously sweet,
(With the heights, and the depths intervening,)
	Feel the pulse of the universe beat.

And forever, and ever unfailing,
	Is the wealth of that infinite love.
Through all life, and all being pervading,
	Which proceeds from Our Father above. 
But the life-giving means is the marvel
	The mystery, past knowledge and skill,
No man can the secret unravel,
	It abideth in God, at His will.
								E. B. W.


SILK CULTURE IN SHANTUNG.

	A VERY important industry of the
province [Shantung] is the rearing of silk-
worms and the manufacture of silk. Silk
is divided into two kinds, the produce,
respectively, of the worm fed on oak leaves
and that fed on mulberry leaves.  The oak-
leaf silk is by far the most important to the 
province, although it is of an inferior 
quality, as, owing to the comparative ease
with which the worm is reared, it is pro-
duced in great quantities.  The cocoon is
kept in the house during the winter, the
moth appearing when warm weather comes.
By the time the worm is hatched the oak 
leaves are generally out, and it is at once
transferred to the trees, when beyond slight
protection from birds, it practically needs no
further care until the cocoons are ready.
Should the oak leaves be backward, pending
their appearance the worm is fed indoors on
other leaves.  The trees must be at least 
eight years old for the worms to produce
good silk.  The cocoons collected from an
acre of healthy trees should yield 3 or 4
catties* of silk.  The first crop of cocoons
is mostly allowed to hatch for the produc-
* 1 catty—1.333 pounds avoirdupois.


[Column 1]
tion of an autumn crop, the latter silk be-
ing better in color and stronger. The silk,
pale brown in color, is reeled and woven by
hand labor, the usual size of the pieces be-
ing about 20 yards by 20 inches; a piece
weighs 2 catties, more or less, according to
quality, the exact weight being recorded
on the edge, as, if above 2 taels* in value
it is sold by weight.
	Of late years the material manufactured
for the foreign markets has improved greatly
in both reeled and woven silk. The great
improvement in the reeled state is that the
hanks are less than one half the circumfer-
ence they were ten years ago, which is a
matter of importance, as according to the
size of the hank the framework from which
it is woven must be larger or smaller; con-
sequently the long hanks are often refused
in the European markets, as they require
too great a space in the factory. During
the last two or three years some workers
have taken great pains in reeling to keep
the silk clean and of an even thickness
while they have contrived to introduce a
twist in imitation of the “filanda” manu-
facture. The silk has commanded a far
better price than the ordinary article, and
will probably increase yearly, especially as
silk of any quality commands far more per
picul† if sold in large lots than when sold
in small parcels, for in the foreign factories
each alteration in quality necessitates a new
arrangement of the machinery.
	The weaving of the silk for foreign con-
sumption has improved, any width that
may be in demand being now undertaken,
instead of the formerly uniform width of 20
inches. Wide pieces command a better
price per catty, according to the width.
Fancy patterns are also undertaken. Little
improvement has taken place in the dyeing,
and only inferior qualities or spoilt pieces
are dyed, as the different threads take the
dye in varying shades.
	Of late the demand from abroad for the
commoner pongees has been far in excess of
the supply, the smallness of which is pos-
sibly accounted for by the fact that coarse
pongees are worn a good deal by the
Chinese middle classes, as they cost little
more than imported cottons and are far
more durable, while they wash equally
well; in fact, all Shantung pongee is
washed before coming into the market, be-
ing made very dirty in weaving. In all
qualities of the woven articles it is calcu-
lated that the raw material represents about
half the value of the piece, labor and trans-
port making up the balance. The yellow
silk, though yielding a much better price,
is not produced to anything like the same
extent, as it entails much greater labor.
The worm has to be kept in the house, and
mulberry leaves provided for it daily. The
mulberry trees are sometimes planted in
fields, an acre supporting from ten to twenty,
according to the soil, but the more frequent
position for them is on the edge of terraces,
the corners of yards, or any spot which
can not otherwise be used. The tree
should be 10 years old for the worms to
produce good silk, and such a tree should
yield 20 to 30 catties of leaves a year.
	Twenty catties of leaves produce one
catty of cocoons, which yield about one-
tenth of a catty of silk, the quality varying
according to the richness of the leaves.
The market price of leaves is ordinarily
about 10 cash per catty. The common
practice in Shantung is to plant mulberry
	*1 tael—$1.20 United States gold. †1 picul—
	133⅓ pounds.

[Column 2]
seedlings in masses in the corners of fields
and to repeatedly cut them down; by this
means a large number of young shoots are
produced, which bud early in the spring,
and these tender leaves are used to feed the
young worms when first hatched, the leaves
on the big trees being ready for them when
they are older. The silk is far inferior to
that produced in Kiangsu and Chekiang,
by reason, it is said, of the mulberry trees
being grown in Shantung from slips in-
stead of by grafting, as in the other provin-
ces, the produce of a graft being a much
thicker and richer leaf. This silk is used
almost entirely, for making silk thread; it is
reeled here by hand, and exported in that
state. A considerable quanity goes overland
to Peking.—From the Shanghai Mercury.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CALIFORNIA WOMEN A  POWER.

	A SUCCESSION of Congresses auxiliary to
the Midwinter Fair held in San Francisco,
has shown, as nothing else could, the in-
tellectual strength of the women of Cali-
fornia. They rallied from every point of
the compass. Their voices were heard with
“no uncertain sound” in the Religious,
Woman’s Suffrage, Temperance, Christian
Science, and Equal Rights Congresses. The
themes discussed and papers read ranged
through the educational, moral, religious
and political world. The scenes at Chicago
have been repeated. Mind has asserted its
supremacy.
	Some of the best thinkers and most logical
of women have come into California, and
are becoming a power. I think there is
not a “stupid woman” in the State. Some
are eminently “clever” in the sense which,
among English folk, denotes intellectual
strength and ability to express it. At this
writing, the State Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Equal Rights League of San
Francisco are in Convention in Union
Square Hall. The object is to consider
woman’s enfranchisement in its relation to
the present and future political condition of 
the country, and to arouse a more general
interest in this popular topic of the day.
Great enthusiasm prevails. The hall is
beautifully decorated with flags and flowers.
A significant picture upon the platform tells
the whole story of what incites our ardor
in this righteous cause. It represents a
group, of which the face of an intelligent
American woman is the central one, sur-
rounded by those of an Indian, a lunatic, a
convict and an idiot. Under the whole is
the legend, “The American Woman and
Her Political Peers.” In the rear of this
suggestive picture hang portraits of George
and Martha Washington, Abraham Lincoln,
Susan B. Anthony, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton.
	Laura de Force Gordon, than whom none
is more forceful in argument, eloquent in
delivery, earnest in conviction, and cour-
ageous in expression, presides over the con-
vention. The leading dailies give faithful
reports of every occurrence, the themes dis-
cussed are re-discussed in many homes, and
the leaven of truth is working.
		NELLIE BLESSING EYSTER.


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the Office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, July 31st,
1894, President Shipp in the chair. Pray-
er was offered by Eliza Bennion. Roll
called and responded to with sentiments
from Shakespere. Mesdames W. B. Law-


ler, Isabella Brown, Emma Holling and 
Laura Hyde were admitted members of the 
club. C. C. R. Wells reminded the ladies of
the delinquency in the matter of fees: Also 
said it was desired that the members wear 
their club badges at the meetings. Lizzie
Shipp and Miss Hillstead favored the club
with a duet. Dr. E. B. Ferguson sug-
gested that Current Topics be taken up and
discussed at the next meeting. Laura W. 
Hyde gave a recitation, Dr. Ferguson gave 
an interesting talk on Theosophy followed
by Phebe C. Young. The subject was 
discussed by members. The following pro-
gram was read for the next meeting. An
Article by Nellie C. Taylor, a recitation by 
Ellis Shipp. A paper on "Heredity," by
Dr. Ferguson. Music by Maude Pratt.
"Current Events," Ada Patterson. An 
article on Pen Women, by E. B. Wells and 
quotations from Bryant by the members. 
Meeting adjourned until Aug. 31st. Bene-
diction by Minnie J. Snow. After which 
refreshments were served and the usual 
pleasant chat followed.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.


MEMORIAL DAY for the late Sister Han-
nah T. King, poet and author, was observed
on July 30 ult. at the residence of Mrs.
John Alford, who had made special pre-
parations for the occasion and sent out cards
of invitation for 4 p. m. A most delicious
repast was served in the happiest style.
At each plate was a handsome double card
tied with lavender ribbon, each one con-
tained a verse from the Psalms of which
Sister King was so fond. The table and 
the parlors, in fact were artistically decor- 
ated with flowers and vines, and gave the
rooms a charming appearance. After din-
ner the ladies each paid a beautiful tribute
to the gifted, departed friend. Sister Rich-
ards had composed a few verses for the oc-
casion which were read and are published
on another page. The guests were Mes-
dames Horne, Kimball, Spencer, Smith,
Grieves, Howe, Woodmansee, Brockbank,
McFarlane, Richards and Wells.


ADMISSION OF UTAH.
	THE following editorial article is from
Louis E. Granger, Junior, great grandson
of Brigham Young, assistant editor of the
Englewood Times, New Jersey. It speaks
for itself and needs no comment. 
	“Another star is to be added to our flag by
the admission of Utah as a State. Utah,
for all that has been said by people with
mistaken ideas has a record of industry,
unequalled by any other state in the union.
From dry desert wastes, to fertile farms, it
has been changed by the industry of the
Mormons in the space of but 47 years. The
fact that Utah has at last been admitted
has caused much rejoicing among the peo-
ple as they have plead for it in vain for so
many years. With polygamy done away
with, the government and church statistics
show an increase in the membership of the
Mormon Church, contrary to the mistaken
ideas of the people in the East. The Mor-
mon women taken as a whole, are staunch
“Woman Suffragists,”' and a glance at the
book “Representative Women of Utah”
will surprise some of our people  here.
Opinions formed in the minds of some peo-
ple are hard to change, but people are be-
ginning to realize the fact that Utah and
the Mormons, have been greatly mis-
represented.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DYING.

WITHOUT the sun shines on the snow;
The hills are luminous in its glow
All nature’s bright:
Yet here within this darkened room
There hangs a shadowy pall of gloom
That dims the light.
It chills the couch where I am lying
For oh, they tell me I am dying!

And all my loved ones I must leave,
I wonder if for me they’ll grieve
Or will they weep,
When stands by me the spectre, Death
And steals from me each labored breath,
Ere that long sleep.
Shall my sweet babes for me be crying?
Oh, can it be that I am dying!

My hands lie heavily by my side,
I could not raise me if I tried,
Nor can I try.
Could I but look into the skies
Through thickening mists before my eyes
Before I die,
And know toward what unknown I’m hieing
I would not shrink though I am dying.

'Tis but a few short happy years,
Since youth with all its hopes and fears
Was in my grasp.
My life has only reached its noon,
Why should Death take me there so soon
Within his clasp?
My hopes and fears no longer vieing,
I fear alas, that I am dying!

I still can hear my heart’s dull beat
And reason yet hath kept her seat
Through all this pain,
O, could I live a few weeks more
The past with all its griefs live o’er
And pleasures vain!
My breath is clogged! Tis labored—sighing
Now—now I feel—I’m dying—dying.
ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


A REMEMBERED EXHORTATION.

"Hold up your heads! My Sisters! Speak!
And sing! That you may be heard!
Watch the swelling throat and open beak
Of the joyous little bird.”

He uses the powers God gives him;
His energy makes him strong;
He pours forth his soul, his Maker is praised,
In his loud, sweet, thrilling song.

So should we do in our labors all,
If we write, or sing, or speak,
We should honor the power that giveth
strength;
And not be timid and weak.

God bless you, my sisters! My heart is full,
With a love that cannot be told;
Each one of your forms, in tender embrace,
My arms would gladly enfold!

Let us wake and ’rise, that our light may shine,
Not passively sit content;
For great is the work and mighty the cause
Of truth which we represent.

God help you to use all the graces and gifts
Which in love He hath given to you;
To glorify Him, to be valiant and firm,
In His cause, which we know is true!

Early this morn, when first I awoke,
These lines I hastily pen'd,
Putting in verse a remembered address,
Of our dear, departed friend.

I have had no time for revision since;
But have questioned, shall I intrude,


Upon a refined and cultured group,
An effort which seems so crude?
But—happy memory! Sister King 
Loved best, thought as it flowed,
Fresh and free, not polished up, 
With after care bestowed.
So I submit it, with the hope,
That we, when we speak or sing,
May put in force the stirring exhort,
Of Hannah Tapfield King. 
L. L. Greene Richards.
S. L. C. Utah, Monday July 30, 1894.


ADVANCEMENT.
The ladies who have recently graduated
from Doctor Ellis R. Shipp’s School of
Obstetrics are Mrs. Matilda Swenson, Har-
risville Weber Co. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hamlin, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Leona
Benson, Alpine, Utah Co. Mrs. Marina
Hansen, Riverton, Utah. Mrs. Eliza
Smith, Pleasant Green, Salt Lake Co.
Mrs. Mary Midgley, Wales, Sanpete Co.,
and Mrs Sarah Vance of Mesa City,
Arizona.  
These ladies have shown marked
integrity in their studies, received
certificates of proficiency and we believe go
forth to extended spheres of usefulness, and
will in their respective localities fill along
felt want. The words of encouragment
and blessing given them by inspiration,
will surely act as a stimulus and powerful
incentive to energetic effort, in their labors
among the sick and suffering—ministering
as they will both to the bodies and the
minds of their patients. Truly their mis-
sion is one of the most grand and noble!
One filled with daily and homely self-sacri-
fice, one to call into action the better part
of their natures, their stern energies, and
their soft and tender emotions.
To all well-balanced minds, woman is
particularly adapted, fitted, and is it too
much to say, fore-ordained to the Sacred
calling of nurse and accoucheur.
If any member of a family is sick who
does the nursing? "Whose gentle hand
soothes the aching, tossing head? Who
binds up the cuts and scratches, or per-
chance the more serious wounds and
bruises? Who keeps nightly, sleepless
vigil over the couch of the dying one.
With the first sensation of pain the child
instinctively calls the name of “mother"
even when the senses are partially be-
numbed with Aneisthetics, when in
hospitals and far removed from home,
have we heard children, and even stalwart
men, call the sacred name of mother.
Then let us ask, who should study and
inform themselves most thoroughly upon
the intricate principles of medicine, and
the more simple and natural laws of nurs-
ing, if not woman? Instead of leaving
this profession to men alone, we maintain
that special branches should be studied and
practiced solely by women; Let her tender
care be for her own sex and the little ones,
for such are the instincts of nature and the
design of Heaven.
This knowledge should be a component
part of every woman’s education. Let the
minds of our daughters be cultivated and
adorned with all the beauties of art, music
and literature, but let domestic science with
the care and nursing of th sick, become
an essential, aye an indispensable part of
their accomplishments.           H


ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.
Woman's Exponent:
Although we have not been heard from
for some time, we trust it has not been
thought we were sleeping, for we have
never ceased working and hope we are
apace with our sister settlements similarly
situated.
The 24 of July was “old folks" day for
all the aged fathers and mothers of Iron
Co, all being invited to partake of dinner
at 3 a. m. in the basement of the Parowan
meeting house; the Relief Society of this
ward prepared the dinner and it was truly a
credit to them as far as quality and quantity,
there being sufficient to have supplied as
many more after the two hundred had
regaled themselves.
August fourth the Primary Association
held conference, and it was a real pleasure
to see the way the little ones acquitted
themselves, although as usual the girls
surpassed their brothers in every way, this
is a noticeable fact wherever we go, and I
just believe I have discovered a remedy, if
the fathers would only interest themselves
in this very important association and not
rely too much upon the already over
burdened mothers to control these minia-
ture lords of creation, but see for themselves
that the small boys went to their meetings,
talk to the little fellows after Primary about
what had been done there, go with them at
least once each year, be just as earnest and
particular as with any other requirement
made of us, I believe we would soon find a
reformation amongst the boys of the Pri-
mary. The first and all essential stepping
stone to the higher organizations that pre-
pare our sons and daughters to become
priests and priestesses of the living God.
August fifth the Relief Society Confer-
ence convened, a quiet peaceful influence
reigned as is usual at all the sisters meet-
ings, very favorable reports were given
from the different wards, the subjects
touched upon were the storing of grain,
silk culture, training of children, and many
other duties, making an interesting and
enjoyable time.
We are located distantly from the gener-
al board, visits from the presiding officers
are therefore seldom, but we would receive
instructions most gladly at any time.
E. Crane Watson, Cor. Sec.
Parowan, Iron Co. Aug. 6, 1894.


TEASDALE WAYNE CO.
Dear Sister:—I pen a few lines to you,
hoping they may prove acceptable. Al-
though we are so far away from your
beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yet
we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings, and are trying to do our duty and ad-
here to the counsel given to us, in storing
up grain, and studying the Lectures on
Faith and storing our minds with good and
useful knowledge, and trying to live as be-
comes Latter-day Saints and mothers in
Israel. I am pleased to say we are a
united little baud of sisters here in Teas-
dale, and may we ever prove faithful to the
good cause we are engaged in, that when
we have finished our labors here on earth,
we may be able to meet our Lord and
Savior, is the earnest desire of your sister
in the everlasting covenant,
Mary E. Adams.
President Teasdale Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

Salt Lake City, August 1 and 15, 1894.


UTAH AND STATEHOOD.
Utah is on the verge of statehood, at
last after years of intercession, and with
every condition in her favor during many
long years of waiting, behold the tide has
turned and the Chief Executive of the
Republic has signed the enabling act
passed by the Congress of the United
States. On the 16th day of July 1894—a
day memorable because of the stroke of a
pen, that will bring greater freedom and
liberty to the people in these mountain
fastnesses and vales. Let all rejoice in the
prospect statehood offers, more especially if
it makes all citizens equal irrespective of
sex. Only a simple act of justice to one
half of the community who are taxed with-
out representation, and who are as justly
entitled to partake of the advantages and
benefits arising from statehood as are their
sons whom they have reared, or their
brothers with whom they have shared the
hardships and toil of building up a com-
munity in a desert land.
	Utah has more resources and brighter
prospects for future greatness than any of
the Territories in the West, these facts are
well known to those who have honestly
investigated the matter. No truer patriots
either men or women can be found than
the people of Utah. No braver, grander
or more thoughtful young men and
women, no wiser, or more lofty-minded
and high-souled veterans than the pioneers
and colonizers, who have made the country
habitable for their children, and those who
have come to dwell within the borders of
fair Utah. History will yet record in
glowing terms the works of these valiant
men and women. But whether that is
done or not their works speak for them and
testify more strongly than the pen can ever
do. Look at Utah as she is today and re-
call the vision of the past when desolate
and barren, without vegetation, sage brush
grease wood and alkali beds met the eyes
of the worn and weary pioneers of 47.
Behold the contrast! Without money but
with industry, energy, and effort almost
superhuman, habitations were reared, or-
chards, and fields were planted, water was
brought from the mountain streams, and
the face of the land was changed, not by
magic, but by the sweat of the brow of the
laboring men. And women too bore their
share of the burdens of daily toil, they
were not found wanting in courage, in in-
dustry, nor in endurance. Young women
who today are grandmothers helped will-
ingly. patiently, with the heaviest bur-
dens and scarcity of food; yet never mur-
mured at their lot, glad to be useful, proud
and happy to lighten the hearts and lessen
the labors of fathers and husbands. Do
they deserve consideration in the new
state? Most assuredly! With equal political
rights.
If the men of Utah do this simple act of
justice knowing as most of them must
know that it is the right and proper thing
to do, having the courage of their con-
victions, the coming generations will look
back with pride upon their record, for the
trend of all education and sentiment is to-
wards political equality, and it is bound to
come, therefore why not Utah be among
the progressive communities where she
should be? And certainly there is not a state
or territory where such a large number of
women own their own homes and farms and
pay their own taxes, and have entered land
in their own names, and have engaged in
business enterprises of various kinds, even
in buying and selling real estate.
	The educational interests of any and all
states naturally are, and necessarily must
be, in the hands of women and the mothers,
and especially in these departments they
shoud have equal opportunity with men
both to say and to do. The destinies
of the nations are influenced by the mothers
we are told, then let them have every
advantage, civil and political to become
qualified for the high and holy callings they
are expected to fill.
	Much of the opposition to suffrage (for
there are no arguments against it) comes
from the attitude of women who have all
the rights they want and are protected; but
if it is better for society, better for a
community that men and women stand
side by side and vote together, then wis-
dom and patriotism demand it, and should,
decide the question.
	The Constitution of Utah should have
no flaws, it should be the best ever framed
by any body of men, and the best men
should be selected as Delegates, men
eminent for their fitness, and as Miss
Anthony says let it be “ the best basis for a
state ever engrossed on parchment! ”


AN OVATION.
	MONDAY evening, July 2nd, was a gala
time indeed for the Young Ladies Associa-
tion of this County. These sisters paid
such a genuine compliment to their Gen-
eral President as is seldom received by any
one, however diligent and faithful or dis-
tinguished they may have been. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor, the honored President,
was entirely unaware of any effort in this
direction, and was consequently almost
overcome with the honors heaped upon her
at the party given to show the love and es-
teem of her friends and co-laborers, and
their generous appreciation of her
magnificent work for the Associations over
which she has presided the last fourteen
years.
	The Fourteenth Ward Hall, was beauti-
fully decorated with flowers and blossom-
ing plants and the place was filled with
Sister Taylor’s, friends when she came in,
almost bewildered with the dazzling beauty
of the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the presentation of bouquets of flowers
until the lady was literally embowered in


roses, the fragrance filling the hall; and
then came the crowning effort in the way
of demonstration, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in
behalf of the Young Ladies in a graceful
and happy speech presented the President
with a handsome Album home-made with
gold clasp and silver engraving, in which
was inscribed the sentiments and addresses
that had been given by these noble
champions of the cause in which they are
all mutually interested.
	Mrs. Taylor responded graciously but
with much embarrassment, as she was com-
pletely overcome with the ovation tendered
her.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon was then an-
nounced as master of ceremonies, and toasts
and responses were indulged in by both
gentlemen and ladies, some sentimental and
some humorous, all appreciative of the one
whom they had assembled to honor.
	A poem by Sister Woodmansee which
was given in July 15th ult. was read by her
daughter Miss Gladys Woodmansee.
	Refreshments and congratulations were
next in order and the party closed with a
benediction. The general feeling was that
the young ladies had carried off the palm,
and outdone all previous efforts in this
direction. It is good for those who labor
so earnestly and untiringly to feel their
work is appreciated, and certainly Sister
Taylor must, after this public demonstration
and magnificent ovation, feel that she has
won the love, confidence and esteem of her
co-workers. It was indeed a beautiful and
fitting testimonial.


COUNTESS WACHTMEISTER.
One of the celebrities who has lately
visited this City was the Countess
Wachtmeister, one of the most learned and
accomplished ladies of the present day.
She has a most interesting history and per-
sonally is a charming woman both in ap-
pearance and in conversation, and also upon
the platform.
	Her full name is Constance Georgine
Louise de Boushel de Montjoncon. Her
parents were the Marquis de Boushel in the
French diplomatic service, and Constance
Bulkley, to whom she was born March, 28,
1838, at Florence, Italy. The Boushel
family is one of the most ancient in France
originating from the southeast of France
they settled in Normandy about the year
936. A. D. and have thus a long line of
ancestors, distinguished in French history
especially one, Rauel de Boushel who
lived in the reign of Louis XIV. Con-
stance de Boushel, having lost her parents
at an early age, was sent to her aunt Mrs.
Bulkley of London Hill, Berkshire England
where she was educated and lived until her
marriage in 1863, with her cousin Count
Wachtmeister, then Swedish and Norwegian
minister at the Court of St. James.
	She resided there three years, when her
husband was called to Copenhagen as
minister to the Danish Court, and then
after two years the Count being made Min-
ster of Foreign Affairs, they took up their
abode at the official residence in Stockholm.
The Countess was then created “state lady
of the land” by the king, and was the last
to receive this distinction as the title has be-
come extinct. The Countess has one son
Count Axel Wachtmeister who was born in
1865.
	The Countess is an ardent exponent of
Theosophy and is giving her life and her


entire time to this occult science or power.
She lived on the continent in Germany and
other countries some years with Madame
H.P. Blavatsky while she was writing the
‘‘Secret Doctrine,” and she has herself
published Reminiscences of Madame
Blavatsky and the Secret Doctrine. She
spent last winter in East India, making a
study of its people, and their strange doc-
trines and customs.
	She lectured in this city several times on
Theosophy and once upon India. As a
lecturer the Countess is very entertaining,
her voice is singularly pleasing, and her
manner quiet and prepossessing. She is now
in the East but will sail from New York in
the Autumn and expects Annie Bessant to
join her in England, the latter having been
in Australia. These two ladies will go to-
gether to India where they will remain dur-
ing the coming winter.
	Judging from conversations with the
Countess one would infer that she was great-
ly attached to her home in Sweden, but she
seems very zealous in theosophical work
and expects to devote herself exclusively
to promulgating its principles and advanc-
ing its interests.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Wednesday evening, August 8th, a
few ladies met at the parlors of Dr. R. B.
Pratt, in honor of her birthday anniversary;
many expressions of love and esteem
mingled with congratulations, were paid
her, and she was also congratulated upon
her courage, perseverance and success in
the medical profession; she having been
the first medical woman graduate from the
Territory. Doctor E. S. Barney a very
dear old friend of Dr. Pratt’s read a written
tribute which was very complimentary and
also prophetic. Many beautiful flowers
were presented, and a handsome volume of
Jean Ingelow’s Poems from the ladies of the
party. Mrs. Pratt’s mother was present
and shared in the congratulations, a won-
derfully well-preserved woman in her
eightieth year. Mrs. P. P. Pratt, Junior,
favored the company with some exquisite
piano music, choice and difficult selections
finely rendered. Mrs. Lizzie Shipp sang,
“The Bridge” in her sweet plaintive way.
Altogether it was a very pleasant social
affair. It is needless to add the refresh-
ments were plentiful and fully enjoyed by
all.
	MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG President of
the Relief Society returned from Canada on
Thursday August 9th, in excellent health
and spirits after having been absent a little
over six weeks. Mrs. Young reports
everything favorable in the organizations in 
Canada. She attended several meetings
and a conference of the sisters. There are
three branches of the Relief Society in that
locality, also Young Ladies’ Associations
and Primaries and the sisters are enjoying
their labors, and were of course delighted
to have a visit from Sister Young, who
always carries with her a cheerful spirit
and influence, and is greatly reverenced and
beloved by all those with and for whom
she labors, having the interest of Zion at
heart in all her numerous duties and the
responsibilities which devolve upon her.
The sisters here at home will be glad to
know that Sister Young is at home again
and brings good news from relatives and
friends. Brother and Sister W. B. Dougall


made a brief visit to Canada recently com-
ing back at the same time, also W. B. Jun.,
and their daughter Catharine.


R.S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
	HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	THE 7th of April, 1894, was a bright
lovely day upon the sunny Isles of the sea,
and how happy all were to think we were
thus highly favored with good weather
when our little folks were to assemble in
general conference of the islands. It was
indeed a beautiful sight to witness the
“Hope of Israel” bedecked in bright
colored ribbons and wearing gay badges
bearing the inscription “Hui Kamalii,”
(Primary Association.) The girls were in
white with beautiful wreaths of flowers up-
on their heads, and the boys neat, and
respectably clad wore wreaths upon their
hats.
	The divisions were separated by a num-
ber of bright banners and flags bearing ap-
propiate mottoes. The whole in appearance
resembling a portable flower garden out on a
parade, the flowers distilling perfume in the
passing breeze and imparting a delightful
fragrance all around. The services were
called to order by Counselor Maggie
Davis. The children sang “O come
children come,” prayer was offered by
Master Naihe. Singing, “Little children
love each other.” Roll called and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Financial report was read by Sister Davis.
A Letter from President Libbie Noall to the
Association was read by Sister Makanve.
The following programme was then
creditably rendered by the children, evinc-
ing care and study in the preparation
and reflecting praise upon the labors of the
Sisters.
	Bible Sentiment by the Association,
Opening Address, Hattie Kekuku; Song
Greeting, a number of little girls; Dia-
logue, Sam Kii and Richard Kalili; Recita-
tions, Pua and Kepa; Song “A Mormon
Boy,” Hamana Kalili. Manuscript Paper,
“Hope of the youth,” Victoria Nainoa.
Questions and Answers on the “Life of
Christ,” by the Association. Song “Little
drops of water.” Recitation, Iva Kekuku;
Song, “Our Father in Heaven” translated
and sung by a number of little girls;
Recitations by Mauna, Sam Kii, and Rich-
ard. Song, “Beautiful Day of Peace and
rest,” translated and sung by the large
girls. Song, “I’ll be a little Mormon” by
the boys.
	The general officers at home and the
local officers here were then unanimously
sustained. A few encouraging and in-
structive remarks were then made by Elders
Davis and Duffin. A donation was then
given by the parents for the Association to
aid in the instrnction of their children.
The conference was then adjourned for six
months by singing the “Primary March”
and prayer by Wallace Brown.
	The sisters assembled in Relief Society
Conference of the Islands, Counselor Mag-
gie Davis presiding. After the usual
opening exercises the financial and statisti-
cal reports were read showing 468 members
21 branches reported, 7 not reported, num-
ber of meetings held 332, cash receipts for
six months $310.60, disbursed to charitable
purposes $142,75 cash on hand $168.85.
	A letter of instructions and encourag-
ment from President Libbie Noall was read
by Sister Makanoe expressing regret, for
not, being able to be present at the confer-
ence. Reports were heard from the
societies on this and adjacent Islands by
either officers or representatives of the dif-
ferent branches, all bearing good testimonies
to the Gospel and expressing a desire to
perform their part in the work of the Lord
placed upon them. The reports were in-
terspersed with singing and other exercises.
A sketch by Sister Makanoe of the different
societies organized among Hawaiin women
being particularly interesting. Sisters
Davis and Harmon gave good instructions
to the sisters and encouraged each to be
faithful in the performance of their duties.
	General and Local Officers were sus-
tained and with singing and prayer meet-
ing was adjourned for six months.
	Much energetic labor has been performed
among the societies in the different branches,
instructing them in what is required of
both officers and members, referring them
to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet and
to the “Letter of Instructions” issued for
their benefit
	Each society has been visited and some
changes made in officers which we hope
will prove for the better.
	On the 28th of May, a Primary Associ-
ation was organized in the branch of
Honolulu with a membership of about
thirty five bright little children. The of-
ficers are Makanoe, President, Kakoe and
Annie Kauluko Counselors; Keonohe,
Secretary; Kana, Assistant Secretary;
Makanoe, Treasurer.
	Our desires as missionary sisters are to
accomplish much good to our sisters who
have been less favored than ourselves, and
the words of our Savior are verified wherin
He says, that “they that be whole need not a
physician but they that are sick.”
						       E. D. M.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held at Gentile
Valley, June 10th, 1894.
	Our company met at Mink Creek, June
9th, consisting of Sister Adeline Barber
President of the Cache Valley Relief Society,
Sister Elizabeth Fox, President of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, her two counselors
Mary Hawks and D. E. Dudley; Miss
Lillie Dudley and Elder Joshua Hawks of
Franklin. We held a meeting at Mink
Creek at 2 o’clock President Christina
Keller presiding. Bishop Rasmunson and
Counselors were also present. The spirit
of peace was richly enjoyed and called forth
much good instructions from each speaker.
	After the close of tbe meeting we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing over hills and
through hollows on a mountainous road
decked on either side with beautiful
flowers of every hue and color, by green
grass and wild fruit trees hanging full of
fruit just forming into shape crossing run-
ning streams of water which went creeping
under the great trees and bushes hurrying
along to join the river below which swollen
far beyond its usual bounds—covered
meadows and in some places grain. We
reached Thatcher ward just as the sun was
setting, and were kindly received by Bishop
Pond and wife.
	At 10 o’clock Sunday morning we repair-
ed to the meeting house, (which was set
upon a hill with a splendid view of the
valley) and held the morning session of bur.
Conference, President Julia Pond presid-


[Column 1]
ing. After the usual exercises the
minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved.
	President Pond gave an excellent report
of their society. President Hale reported
the Mound Valley ward society. Presi-
dent Fox spoke of the goodness of God to
his chosen people. Said we were organized
into a Relief Society by revelation for our
own good and exhorted the sistess to at-
tend to every known duty; spoke of read-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine 
and Covenants in their meetings and many
other things
	Counselor M. Hawks spoke of the mis-
sion of mothers—their duty to their
children, of her two sons who had just re-
turned from the Islands of the sea after
having performed honorable missions and
learned to speak the two foreign languages,
also spoke of the power of prayer, etc.
	Counselor D. E. Dudly gave timely in-
structions to the secretaries. Said, "Order
is the keystone of organization” and it was
necessary that our records should be writ-
ten correctly with good black ink, every
thing with place and date. Roll to be
called with proper date also all of mem-
bers recorded with date. All members
moving away should be given a recommend
and their removal recorded, so we may be
able to refer to it at any future time and
get any incident that might be needed. If
we are to be judged by the books 
how necessary that our good works should be
recorded, etc.
	President A. Barber spoke of the planting
of mulberries and raising of silk, of pre-
paring for a time of famine and want by
laying by a supply of wheat, needles and
pins &c. and by raising our own cocoons
and making our own thread as we could
very easily if we would commence now.
Spoke of the blessed privileges we can en-
joy of laboring in the Holy Temples for the
redemption of our dead relatives; of the
sweet spirit of peace which pervades the
temple and testified to the goodness of God
towards her during her sojourn here upon
the earth. She had been so greatly blessed
that she had the work done for seven hun-
dred of her dead relatives.
	Elder Joshua Hawks followed with many 
good and appropriate remarks too numerous
to mention. Bishop Pond felt to appreciate
the visit of the sisters and knew what they
had said was the word of the Lord unto 
those who were present.
	After dinner we returned over the river
according to previous arrangement and held
afternoon session at Mound Valley Ward
where we met Bishop Bennett and Counse-
lors and also Brother Bennett’s aged mother.
Bishop Pond and wife Solomon Hale Jun.
and wife and many others accompanied us
to Mound Valley.
	Meeting commenced at 3 o’clock, Presi-
dent Eliza Hale presiding. The singing
by the choir was much enjoyed. All were
united in such a way as to unite the hearts
of all, and the words of comfort and in-
struction flowed from each speaker in an
easy fluent stream. The new meeting
aouse is not finished but is substantially
built of brick and is so near completion
that they can meet comfortably in it while
it is warm. After meeting we partook of a 
bounteous repast at President Eliza Hale’s
and returned to Thatcher Ward and spent a
most enjoyable evening with Bishop Pond
hnd family, in their beautiful home. His 
new house is of modern style of architec-
ture both convenient and handsome.

[Column 2]
We started for Chesterfield Monday
morning at 6 o’clock, the air was cold and
raw and the wind blew continuously into our
faces which made it very disagreeable for
some of the sisters who began to feel weary
as the weather had been cold and frosty
from the first. All of the early crops had
suffered greatly from cold. At Bancroft
we stopped an hour to feed teams and eat a 
lunch. There we saw an immense amount
of wool sacked and piled ready to ship
East to be manufactured into clothing and
this again to be returned to sell to us again,
which is really too bad when we have so
much need of its being manufactured at
home and thereby give employment to the
many who need employment in our midst.
	We reached Chesterfield at 12 o’clock—
held a meeting at 2 o’clock, President Hig-
ginson presiding; after the usual opening
exercises, much good instruction similar to
our previous meeting was given. Bishop
Tollman was glad the sisters had not for-
gotten them and asked the blessings of God
to attend us on our journey. Here they
have a large commodious brick meeting
house well finished and furnished by the
labor of their own hands. The brick was
burned and also the lime by members of 
their ward. The seats were made by local
mechanics. The whole inside surface,
walls included, is artistically painted by a
local member in an original design.
	After partaking of the hospitality of
Bishop Tollman and Sister Call for the
night we started for Dempsie at 8 o’clock
Tuesday morning. The roads were quite
muddy for a while caused by the rain fall of
the previous day. We traveled on briskly
for a couple of hours and came to Dempsie
Creek quite a large stream of water flow-
ing through the land; it furnishes water
for the new farms which have lately been 
taken and the land has but recently been
cut off from the Indian Reservation and
will soon be surveyed and in market. 
Farther on we came to a canyon where the
Portneuff River runs between two high
mountains—roaring and rushing over great
cliffs of Lava rock for miles down the can-
yon, tall pine trees grow so near the dug-
way you could almost put forth your
hand and pluck the cones which cover the
entire surface of some of them.
	These lines were forcibly brought to
mind by beholding them
		Woodman spare that tree
		Touch not a single bough.
	But leave it stand as a monument of
nature in its grandeur planted by Omnipo-
tent hand. Here we beheld for the first
time water that would eventually reach and
help to form the Pacific Ocean.

Praise ye the Lord! All ye moorlands and
	mountains
	Praise him alone all ye ever green hills,
Glory to God! Shout the bright flowing fountains
	Till all the earth with your melody fills.

Woodland and meadow flowers
Bloom of the summer hours
	Bend to the wind with your anthem of praise,
Sprays of the waterfall
Chant ye a coralal
	Here at the feet of the ancient of days.
	We gazed with admiration and wonder
at wild and awful scenery of nature and
tried to imagine how great had been the
power that had upheaved the beds of earth
and rock—could it be possible that we were
gazing at the result of the destruction the
three dark days that our Saviour laid in the
tomb at Jerusalem, and the wicked were

[Column 3]
destroyed on this continent and the face of
nature was so changed, or did this upheav-
ing take place in the days of Peleg, when
the earth was divided.
	We traveled along a dug-way around the
mountain side, far above the river bed,
passed two large canals which were filled
with water to be used by the new settlers
in this vicinity.
After leaving the canyon we came sud-
denly upon Brother and Sister Boice who
were anxiously looking for us and had a 
sumptuous dinner waiting for us; which
we partook of with a relish, enjoying at the
same time a lively chat with old acquaint-
ances.
	At 2 o’clock we repaired to the meeting
house where we met a band of young sis-
ters newly organized in a new land.
President Ida Boice presiding. The Bishop
was not present but Brother Pierce his
counselor was present. The sisters ex-
horted all to be faithful and gave general
instruction concerning Relief Society work.
How to keep the records correctly, to get
them a piece of land while the country is
new so they could make permanent im-
provements and become independent in
this matter. Asked the brethren to be
liberal and assist their wives. Thought it
would be an excellent idea for the sisters to
take a sack in hand after threshing was
done and say to their husbands, "I want
you to pay me for cooking the same as you
have the rest of your hands, and then I
will be prepared to lay up a little wheat and
thereby do my duty as a member of the
Relief Society, and they would not have to
give their husband’s grain but let him have
the privilege of donating all he desires to
do in his own name.”
President Boice gave a good report of the
labors both statistical and financial. They
had a roll of Exponents on the table
which was commendable—showed they
were seeking from the proper source infor-
mation and wisdom. We must not forget
to say we had a nice bundle of salmon
trout presented to us by Sister Fanny Wil-
son which had been caught in the Portneuff
River and which we later enjoyed to the
extent of our ability. At the close of this
meeting we continued our journey ten
miles to Mc. Cammon. At 7.30 we held a
meeting conjointly with Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, Presi-
dent Althea M. Lewis presiding, also
Luella Lish president of the Young Ladies
Association was present. After the usual
opening exercises the young ladies rendered
a programme as follows. A lecture on the
redemption of the dead, a duet, a recitation
and correspondence, all of which was done
in an excellent manner.
	Then much timely instruction and coun-
sel was given by the visiting company.
	Elder Norton bore a strong testimony to
the truth and told incidents of interest of
the early days of Utah. We were all
hospitably entertained for the night by
Brother and Sister Norton.
	This brother, Alanson Norton is one of
Utah's oldest settlers and has passed
through many of the persecutions of the 
early rise of the church. He operated the
first carding factory in Utah—at Mill Creek,
he also set in motion the spinning machine
and power loom in the Sugar House ward
for President Brigham Young. He also
built the woolen factory in Brigham City in
1871, and went East to Massachusetts and
bought the machinery—set it up and put it


[Column 1]
in operation and ran the business until
others learned to operate it.
	At the time he went East to buy the
machinery he carried $7.000 in a belt made
for the purpose, on his person. The money
was entrusted to him by Apostle Lorenzo 
Snow without a receipt or security and also
an order for credit if he should need it; he
is 80 years old, the father of 21 children,
100 grand children and great grand child-
ren; he can read without glasses and do a
man’s work. Seven of his children are
resettled on good homes near him. He is
Presiding Elder of McCammon branch and
is now superintending the building of a
new meeting house.
	We left McCammon Wednesday morning
at 8 o’clock for Garden City, where we met
with the Relief Society at 10 o’clock with a
good representation the local President pre-
siding. This Society was doing well as re-
ported by the President. Similar instruc-
tions were given as at the previous meet-
ings. Bishop Capell testified to the good-
ness of God and appreciated the visit of the
sisters. After dinner we proceeded to
Nine-Mile, and held our eighth meeting at
2’clock, President Coffin presiding. Sister
Coffin was bowed down with grief on ac-
count of the death of her husband which
happened the week before.
	The instructions given were much the
same as had been given at previous meetings
delivered in a spicy manner under the in- 
fluence of the Spirit of God. Their Dis-
trict School was still in session and judging
from the blackboard work left from the
daily exercise they are blest with a com-
petent teacher We were kindly provided
for by the two Sister Coffins for the night.
	On the morning of 14th, we continued
our journey to Clifton and held our ninth 
and final meeting with a house well filled,
President D. E. Dudley presiding. We
felt to appreciate the efforts of their new
choir. Bishop Gayner and his two coun-
selors were present on the stand. President
D. E. Dudley having been called to act as a
counselor in the stake she was released
and Sister Lucy A. Howell was called and
set apart to take her place as president of
the Clifton Relief Society. President A. 
Barker urged all to labor for the redemption
of their dead friends, told them how
to plant mulberry trees and raise silk and
help to be self sustaining. She said she
was not well when she started but she felt
blessed in her labors; although it had been
very cold she believed it had done her
good. Counselor Hawks spoke of the
goodness of God in leading us out of
Babylon and establishing us in the moun-
tains while the judgments of God should
pass over the nations and of the signs of
the times. President Fox spoke in praise
of the Relief Society branches she had
visited and felt to thank the Lord for the
Gospel, and all the blessings attached there-
to, felt to do her duty and exhort every
sister under her jurisdiction to do the same.
She felt that our visit had been appreciated
by the kind reception we had received from
all we had met. She did not think hard
times had found their way up North judg-
ing from the good things that were ever
present where we were entertained. She
felt, to leave a mother’s blessing with all.
Counselor D. E. Dudley gave a humorous
report of our journey in a brief way.
Elder Joshua Hawks continued the report
speaking of the spreading abroad of our
 sons and daughters in this goodly land,
making homes, building canals, meeting

[Column 2]
houses, organizing into wards, Relief Society
Associations according to the plan of the
Gospel, and felt all things were working
on slowly and steadily but surely. Zion is
spreading out her borders, subduing the
desert and the kingdom of God will be
duly established. The little stone cut out
of the mountain without hands was surely
rolling forth and will eventually fill the
whole earth. He felt to bless the young
people and the old, begged of them to be
humble and obedient that they might be
useful in any place they might be called to
act.
	Bishop Garner felt well and thanked all
for their visit and good instruction and en-
couragement. After the closing exercises
preparations were made to go home to
Franklin. We separated, feeling greatly
blessed and instructed by our short mission
during which we had enjoyed so richly the
spirit which enlighteneth the soul of man.
	ELIZABETH FOX, President.
	MARY HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro-tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A TRIP THROUGH CALIFORFIA.

	THE Womans Nat. Press Association left
San Francisco May 8th via Donahue R. R.
by invitation of. Mr. A. W. Foster, Presi-
dent of the Road, and Mr. H. C. Whiting,
General Manager. We were accompanied
Mr. R. Ryan, General Passenger Agent,
he was one of our entertainers during our
trip and to him we owe many thanks for
much of our pleasure.
	After a delightful sail on the Bay we ar-
rived at Tiburon, where a special train was
in waiting to convey us to Cloverdale. We
passed many beautiful fruit farms, lovely
villages and a country whose beauty can-
not be surpassed. Its acres of emerald
green are dotted with the gorgeous wild
flowers known only to California.
	The road is one finely constructed and
equipped with luxurious coaches; one
could easily fancy herself reclining in
an easy chair in her own parlor. The air
was mild and balmy, so much so that the
consumptive who was with us said “her
cough had left her and she felt that if she
could stay in the delightful atmosphere, she
could live forever.”
	At 12:20 p. m. we arrived at Cloverdale, a
pretty town situated among the hills at the
upper end of Russian Valley. On our ar-
rival we were met at the station by Mrs.
and Mr. Monihan, Prop’rs of the United
States Hotel whose guests we were during
our stay before, and after returning from
the Geysers. This hotel is a commodious
brick building and the only first class house
in Cloverdale. We were surprised to find
telephonic communication with the Geysers
eighteen miles distant. We earnestly
recommend this hotel to tourists.
	Cloverdale is particularly desirable for
invalids on account of its equable and
salubrious climate.
	After a refreshing night’s rest we were
awakened by the call “All aboard for the
Geysers.” Six four-horse stages were
waiting to convey us up the mountain side
past the grandest and most beautiful scenery
any of us had ever looked upon. Mr.
Charles Martin Humbert, owner of the
stage line, handled the reins on one of the
stages, and for this occasion, became our
driver as well as host. Stage riding which
heretofore had been a terror to me, proved
in this, case a most delightful means of

[Column 2]
transporation through the mountains where
a glorious vision met our view at every
turn.
	As we drew near our destination we
notice a strong odor of sulphur and catch a
glimpse of a large frame building nestled
in a garden of flowers, shadowed by
majestic trees. Major H. A. Powell, of
San Francisco, owner of the hotel and
geysers, was our host during our stay and
accompanied us through the Geysers, giv-
ing us a complete history of the many
springs and their wonders which are be-
yond description. To Major Powell, our
genial host we owe many thanks.
	After a pleasant journey by stage and
rail we arrive at the Redwoods at 10:30 a
m. After viewing the beauties of the
gigantic trees, which tower hundreds of
feet above our heads and fill us with awe
at the wonders of nature and the goodness
of God—we gather many flowers and ferns
which were as diminutive in size as the
trees are large beyond conception, to any
one who has never seen them.
	At 12 o’clock sharp the signal was given
for all to gather round the banqueting
board. The lunch was furnished us by
the officials of the Donahue road and would
have done credit to Delmonico. Wines
and good things too innumerable to mention
were provided. After doing justice to the
elaborate spread, the W. N. P. A. song was
sung, followed by the grand old hymn
“Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.”
	The setting sun witnessed our return to
Cloverdale en route to Santa Rosa to take
part in the rose festival as the guests of the
city of Santa Rosa.
	The following morning our eyes were
greeted with a view of such floral beauty
as we had never seen before, the grand
staircase of our hotel was one mass of
roses and ferns, each guest found her room
a perfect bower of roses. The elaborate
decoration of the city made it seem like
one grand flower garden—the people had
given themselves up to pleasure and
hospitality.
	At four o’clock, the last day of our visit,
the citizens had brought out their private
carriages for the pleasure of the Press As-
sociation; behind fast horses we were shown
the beauties of the city and surrounding
country.
	Santa Rosa, fifty odd miles from San
Francisco, is the County Seat of Sonoma
County, and is a thriving business place,
has handsome public buildings, beautiful
parks and many fine homes. We predict
that in a few years it will be second to none
in the state. Our guide and interpreter,
Mr. R. A. Thompson, editor of the
“Sonoma Democrat” distinguished him-
self as a princely entertainer.
	After two days at Santa Rosa, the memory
of which will linger with us forever, we
turned our faces homeward, and in a few
hours were again at our hotel in the City of
the Golden Gate.
	Forever will dwell with us the happiness
of those days, and the kind faces of our
new friends will serve as a beacon light to
lure us back again to California.
	JULIA A. ANDERSON.


IF you wear religion as a cloak your soul
may freeze to death.
	Several Woman Suffrage lecturers are
anxious to come here and speak for suffrage
now that Utah is to be admitted into the
union.


179 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES OF W. S. A. WILLARD. 
	MRS. E. B. WELLS and Mrs. M. A.
Freeze by special invitation arrived at
Willard July 26 on the 4:20 train to hold a
W. S. A. meeting. 
	They were met at the depot by some of
the officers and driven to the residence of
the President where lunch was served in
honor of their coming, by the W. S. A.
	After having an enjoyable time all ad-
journed to the tabernacle where a public
meeting was held.
	The ladies were greeted with a very large
interested and appreciative audience, many
gentlemen being present.
	The meeting opened about 8:30 with
President Lottie Hubbard in the chair
Singing, Help the Working Women.
Prayer by Brother T. W. Brewerton, sing-
ing “Woman Arise.” Mrs. M. A. Freeze
was the firet speaker. Said we are all
interested, or should be, in the cause of
suffrage; from our association in these great
organizations, we are privileged to meet
with most educated and refined women of
the world in the Woman’s Congress and
Conventions. Woman did not realize
what a vast field was opening before her
when the prophet Joseph Smith turned
the key for woman in 1842.
	The association sang “Our God shall
lead us on.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced.
She had a great admiration for men but
would like all the political and civil rights
they enjoyed. Showed how the question
of Suffrage was being agitated all over the
United States. In the Woman’s Con-
gress of ’93, the whole trend was towards
equality. Referred to Miss Anthony’s
influence and popularity; gave illustrations
that showed women did not have all the
rights they wanted. Utah is entitled to
more Delegates to attend the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention than any other state
except New York.
	Mrs. Ray Evans of Brigham City gave a
sketch of their labors during the last six
months.
	The lady speakers were tendered a vote
of thanks for their merited efforts. Sing-
ing ‘‘New America.” Benediction Mr.
Homer Call.
	Following are names of officers. Lottie
Hubbard, President; Mary Harding, first
Vice President; Dora S. Dudley, second
Vice President; Ellen Ward, third Vice
President; Stella Cook, Rec. Sec. and
Treasurer; Esther Harding Ass’t. Sec. and
Cor. Sec.; Maria Zundell, Chairman Ex.
Com.; Jennie Hubbard, Nancy Harding,
Emma J. Davis, Maggie Henderson, mem-
bers of Executive Committee, Dora S.
Dudley, Organist; Esther Harding, Ass’t.
Organist.


OBITUARY.

ELIZABETH COON.
	SISTER ELIZABETH COON was the daughter of
William Pernarder Parker Farbrough, and was
born in Calhoun Mont. Co. Tennessee, Dec. 22,
1818. After her marriage with the late Abraham
Coon they moved to Green Co. Illinois, where she
embraced the Gospel in 1839, Elders Parley P.
Pratt and William E. McLellan were the first to
introduce the Gospel to her and to her husband
which they gladly embraced and left their beauti-
ful home in Green Co. and moved to Hancock
Co. Illinois where they shared in the trials of the
great exodus from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters.
Sister Coon drove her own team all the way and
became quite an expert in yoking and unyoking
her cattle. Brother Coon having been made a
Bishop to take charge of some forty families that


were left without husband and father, the men
having gone in the Mormon Battalion. Sister
Coon was often at a loss to know how to assist
her husband, in providing for the destitute but
they never let any one go from their door hungry,
the Lord always opened up the way before them
that they had something to assist the needy.
The family came to Utah in 1850 and settled in the
16th, Ward in this City, where they remained. A
few days before Sister Coon’s death she went to
stay with one of her daughters Sister Rachel
Cooley of Mendon, Cache Co., she had the oppor-
tunity of attending the dedication services in the
Salt Lake Temple which had always been
promised to her to see the Temple completed,
this was the happiest day of her life and she re-
joiced greatly. Sister Coon was a woman of great
faith and sterling integrity and she leaves a name
and memory long and affectionately to be
cherished by her numerous posterity.
	Brother Coon died some years previous leaving
her a widow, but she has gone to join him and no
doubt there was a happy reunion.
	Sister Coon leaves nearly two hundred children
grand children and great-grand children to
mourn her loss. She departed this life after much
suffering, which she bore with great patience and
fortitude, Jan. 15, 1894, at the residence of her
daughter, Sister Frances Hardman, Pleasant
Green, Salt Lake County Utah. "Blessed are
the dead that die in the Lord, yea, they rest from
their labors and their works do follow them.”
	E H.


JOSEPHINE STREEPER CHASE.

	THE funeral obsequies of the late Josephine
Streeper Chase were attended at the family
residence in Centerville, Davis County, July 23,
1894.
	Her death, which occurred on the evening of
the 20th, at her home, was sudden and unexpected.
She was the daughter of William and Matilda
Wells Streeper, born May 6th, 1835, in the city of
Philadelphia. With her parents she removed
from there to Nauvoo in the spring of 1844, the
following year from there to St. Louis, and in the
year 1851 emigrated to Salt Lake City. About
the year 1855 she was married to George A.
Chase, and was the mother of 15 children—5 sons
and 10 daughters, 8 of whom, with 16 grand-
children, survived her.
	In the family circle her radiance of character
was not only superior, but seemed to approach
the sublime. As a wife, mother and teacher
she was adapted to each condition with un-
questioned ability. Her complete devotion to
the duties connected therewith was characterized
with that unselfish love that makes one more than
earthly in the estimation of those who were fav-
ored to share her kindly charities or taste the
sweets of her spiritual life. Her many years of
fervent and successful labors in the Sunday
school was a sphere of more than ordinary use-
fulness to the children of others, who will cherish
a loving remembrance of her through all their
lives. The delicate nature of her physical or-
ganization did not justify entering upon those
more public services in which her influence might
have been felt in a more extended field, but not
for a holier purpose than that which ever charac-
terized her efforts in the cultivation and develop-
ment of the youth of Zion.
	The numerous and earnest testimonies borne
of her on the occasion of her funeral obsequies
should satisfy both family, kindred and friends to
the drying of all tears, the dispelling of all grief,
and the yielding of all hearts to that joy which is
unspeakable, that
	With her the race of life well run
	Has joined her with her kindred throng,
	In mansions for her there prepared,
	With crowns of glory to be shared.
	The great number which attended her funeral,
among whom were Apostles, Presidents and
many prominent influential citizens, indicated the
high esteem in which she was held by all who
had her acquaintance, many of whom ac-
companied her remains to their last resting place,
and said in their hearts, “Rest, rest, to the weary
soul.” S.W. Richards.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
No. 18 Main St, 	- 	Salt Lake City.
[Column 2]
GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:
Leave Salt Lake: 	Arrive Salt Lake: 
*7:45 a. m.			12:40p.m.
10:20“				*4:00“
2:00 p. m.			4:40“
3:00“				6:10“
†6:30"				†l0:10“
*Daily except Sunday. 	†Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening.Fare round trip 50c.
S. H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
Receivers.
D.E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.
G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.
LUBRICATING OILS.
USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.
19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS
DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON’T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But'
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
(---) Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1894. No. 5.


CONTENTS:

	Utah and her people—By Amicus. Our Visit
to Beaver Co.—L. Jones. A New Book—Rachel
Foster Avery. Woman’s Suffrage Column—A. A.
A Suggestive Book—The New Cycle. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly—Vilate Young. In Rural England.
St. Joseph Stake—Willmirth East. In Mem-
oriam—Communicated.
	EDITORIAL:—The Need of the Hour. Relief
Society Excursion. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—In Loving Remembrance—Lydia D. 
Alder. Wild Roses—Sarah Stock. Harvest
Time—M. E. T. Griffith.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.

	(Aflectionately dedicated to her loved ones)
DEATH gently kissed her eyelids down,
	And hid forever the cold world’s frown, 
And in his silent, cold embrace
	I smoothed each deep furrow from her face.
"God giveth his beloved sleep”
	The rest that’s calm and sweet and deep;
And in the earth we place its trust
	To safely guard their sacred dust.
A solemn rapture sweetly fell
	On each dear feature loved so well,
As angels clasped her by the hand,
	And drew her to the Silent Land.
All honor to her noble life,
	As mother, sister, friend and wife;
True to her covenants made with God,
	She bowed her head beneath the “Rod.”
Joy, joy the ransomed spirit’s free,
	And with the just her God will see;
As earth fades from her mortal sight
	See, dazzling worlds are shining bright.
The saints sleep well, their race is run;
	The battle’s fought, the crown is won;
When God calls up the sleeping dust,
	They’ll rise in glory with the Just.
Then stay the tear and look above,
	For in the realms where all is love, 
Your wife and mother waits for you, 
	And prays that Heaven will keep you true.
Farewell, farewell ’till Christ shall come,
	Then, with the ransomed, happy throng,
May all your loved ones left below
	With you, an everlasting glory know.
August 1894. LYDIA D. ALDER.


UTAH AND HER PEOPLE.

			BY AMICUS.

[Delivered before the Literary Club at
		Ann Arbor University.]

	THIS year is national jubilee, the brother-
hood of nations join to sing the praises of
Columbus, the pioneer of the western
world. In the light of his achievement
his memory has outlived the narrow pre-
judices and misunderstandings of his time;
for at Chicago the World’s Columbian Ex-
position will coordinate the multifarious

[column 2]
lines of human skill and genius, to score
one grand triumphal symphony to his
name. 
	I pass from this inviting theme to one
which it suggests; less popular, it may be,
yet one that offers to the advocate a cause.
It seems to be a day for eulogies and re-
conciliations. We hear the motto now and
then, “No North no South, no East no
West.” Pray let us suit the action to the
word, and so erase the yet remaining lines
of sectional ill-will. An occasion is afford-
ed here to-night.
	To the masses of the people, fair Utah
as she is today is covered with a mantle;
not of charity, alas, but oftimes with the
shroud of prejudice and misconception.
Thanks to the growing channels of com-
munication, the leaven intelligence is
abroad in the land as never before; and the 
dawn of the coming century points to
higher and better things. Until we shall
have reached perfection’s shore, let the
leavening process continue. It is making
men of liberal minds and generous hearts. 
	I cannot believe that I have been mis-
taken in the spirit of freedom and Christian
toleration that pervades the intellectual at-
mosphere of the University of Michigan.
I ask you therefore, to listen to my story:
Nearly fifty years ago under the leader-
ship of Brigham Young—the Utah pioneers
of 47 made a colonizing pilgrimage unpar-
alleled in the history of the world; a sweep-
ing statement, but a true one! The time
forbids a full narration of the early rise and
progress of this peculiar people. Call them
religious enthusiasts, fanatics, what you
will; as pioneers of civilization in the great
Far West a commonwealth stands today a
monument to their thrift and industry.
	I forbear detailing the vicissitudes of the
early days. Their trials and tribulations
picture scenes that made the strongest
weep, that melted hearts of stone to sym-
pathy. Twenty thousand sorrowing ones
forsake Nauvoo the Beautiful, to find a
place of refuge in the desert. Forsake, I
said. Ah no, not that, for it struck the
tenderest chords to leave their lovely homes.
Old and young, men, women and children
go forth as refugees, finding solace in the
lamentation, “Even unto this present hour
we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked,
and are buffeted, and have no certain dwell-
ing place; being reviled, we bless; being
persecuted, we suffer it; being defamed, we
entreat; we are made as the filth of the
world, and the offscouring of all things un-
to this day.” Applying to themselves the
benediction of the persecuted, they gloried
in their tribulations.
	To find an asylvm of peace the outcasts
turn their faces westward. The Missouri
River then the west—wild west to the peo-
ple of the thickly populated east, was civili-
zation of the veriest kind to the Mormon
pioneers. Think of it! Two thousand
miles across the plains with teams!
What a contrast today, as the tourists sits
serenely in a Pulman Palace car, moving
along at almost lightening speed. When
with all our modern conveniences, we are
fatigued after a transcontinental trip, faintly

[column 3]
can we realize the hardships of the pioneer
journey.
	The advance company, after many days
travel, reach Bridger’s camp. Col. Bridger,
familiar with the Rocky Mountain country,
gives some needed information as to the
routes, distances and camping-places, but
he gives a discouraging report of the Salt
Lake Basin; assuring them that the coun-
try was wholly unfit for the habitation of
civilized men. Why, the raising of grain
was out of the question! So sanguine was
he in the statement, that, by way of empha-
sis, he offered one thousand dollars for the
first ear of corn or bushel of wheat that
could be raised there. Despite the dis-
couraging report, the pioneers continued
their journey, and on July 24th 1847, the
valiant hundred and forty-three reached the
summit of the great plateau. 
	There upon the heights they stood in re-
verential wonder. Let us gaze with them,
as they then gazed, upon a scene, matchless
in its grandeur, awful in its solitude!
(		) Outstretched before them is
America’s Dead Salt sea, glistening in the
sunlight; the shimmering waves reflecting
lustrous diamonds and silvery sheen. The
everlasting Wasatch hills are linked and
inter-linked in grand majestic mountain
chains, whose towering, snow capped heads
ascend the dizzy heights to kiss cerulean
skies. From gorges seamed and craggy,
flow limpid, laughing streams, cold and
crystal clear—“Leaping, dashing, foaming,
splashing, from rock to glen, from peak to
plain.” But the canyon streams were far
and few, and the arid waste they watered,
glistened with beds of salt and soda, and
pools of deadly alkali.
	The historian tells us it was no garden of
the Hesperides upon which the pioneers
gazed that memorable July morning.
“Aside from its scenic splendor, which was
indeed magnificent, there was little to in-
vite, and much to repel in the prospect pre-
sented to their view. No waving fields, no
swaying forests, no verdant meadows to
rest and refresh the weary eyes, but on all
sides a seemingly endless waste of sage
bush bespangled with sunflowers.—the
paradise of the lizard, the cricket and the
rattlesnake. "The Great American Desert!"
Such was its fitting name upon the maps.
The only human dwellers are roving bands
of Indians; but for these, silence and deso-
lation reign. A silence unbroken save by
the cricket’s ceaseless chirp, the roar of the
mountain torrent, or the whir and twitter
of the passing bird—A desolation of cen-
turies where earth seems heaven forsaken,
where hermit nature watching, waiting,
weeps, and worships God amid eternal
solitudes.” It was in the very heart of this
inhospitable reigion a thousand miles from
anywhere the people were to make their
homes.
	Before descending into the valley, they
plant on Ensign Peak the stars and stripes,
and fling its silken folds to saline breezes.
The present site of Salt Lake City is chosen
and laid off with prescient foresight, it
would seem, of the immense proportions it
would yet assume; a day when its wide


[Column 1] 
streets, paved walks, and rippling streams
coursing the shady thoroughfares, would
be at once the admiration and delight of all.
The public squares located, they built from
sun-dried brick a school house. To their
credit be it said,' so near to them was the
cause of education that the first building
erected was a temple of learning, dedicated
as a public school. It was modest, aye,
homely on its architectural side, but symbol
of a high ideal. Note the outcome of this
early movement. Utah, today, according
to the census can stand comparisons with
some states in cultured New England, with-
out having cause to blush.
	The pioneer’s Indian policy from the first
was to feed the red men, not to fight them.
Untutored as he is, the Indian is human
still; for learning that the pioneers were
friendly, he became, in turn, their friend.
Often have I heard the simple, childlike
salutation of these children of the wilder-
ness: "How d’do. I like you—give me
‘Something to eat.” Or in the vernacular:
‘"Mike. Ahena meamegomigan. unah
kanucha kahmumuk.”
Though lovers of the beautiful, aesthetics
—in the narrow sense, gave place to activi-
ities more directly connected with the life
serving functions for the pioneers began
to have a certain undefined feeling that
turnips and potatoes were paragons of for-
mal beauty.
With mingled feelings of hope and fear,
they broke a few acres of dry, parched
ground, (and quite as many plow-shares)
planted their seed, irrigated from the can-
yon stream the thirsty soil, and looked to
God to give the increase.
There was an alternating struggle for the
victory between King Harvest and the
‘Monster Famine. (More than once the
words of-Col. Bridger came to them.) The
lateness of the season, too, did not tend to
reassure them. But the seeds take root and
grow the crops mature, the harvest comes,
and with it, such a time of joy and grati-
tude as is seldom witnessed.
The ordeal for the first few years was,
indeed, a trying one. What with the
ravages of crickets, grasshoppers, and re-
curring drought, they often reaped half
crops and sometimes scarcely none. In
these extremities, boiled roots and raw-
hides made up the bill of fare and were
eaten with a relish.
What a transformation scene the wizard
wand of industry has wrought! What a
tribute to the perseverance of the people.
What before was desolation, now blossoms
as the rose and mother earth, once barren,
now brings forth her increase, and revels in
the rich luxuriance of production. Ladened
fruit trees, fragrant flowers, fields of wav-
ing, golden grain make glad the sight.
The flocks and herds by thousands roam
-the hills. The mountains with their ribs
of iron, hearts of silver and veins of gold
add millions to the nations wealth. And
as for salt! We have enough of this com-
modity in our one liquid mine do supply the
earth! Right in this connection is a
singular fact for which my chemistry can-
not account. Utah today sends more
freshmen to the University of Michigan
than any state in the west.
Tourists, on investigation, are surprised
at the varied natural resources of our
territory. Our work shops, mills, factories
and refineries produce everything from
tooth-picks, to sugar by the train load. The
Utah sugar factory is one of the largest in
the United States last year’s output was

[Column 2]
over two and a half million pounds. Free
schools, and churches of all denominations
are supported. The fine arts have their
devotees. Sculptors, painters, musicians,
poets, all create the images of their fancy
which bring to them the meed of praise,
and pleasure to their patrons.
	When you visit the World’s Fair, spend
an hour in the Utah Building and be sur-
prised and pleased. You then will grant
the truth and moderation of my words to-
night.
	Look at Utah as she is today. Let the
dead past bury the dead. Have you read
the public records? In the official judgment
of the nations Chief Executive there is no
“Mormon Question” now. President
Harrison accepts the Manifesto of the Mor-
mon people as sincere, and so by proclama-
tion has granted amnesty.
	Leaves have their time to fall. Utah has
emerged from gloomy night, and all her
citizens, Mormon, Jew and Gentile, hail
the coming day. Courted with favor by
both the great political parties, Utah—hav-
ing long outgrown her swaddling clothes,
will soon be clothed with robes of state-
hood. Be not taken by surprise; rather
with a reconciled assurance bid a sister
welcome.
	Listen to the patriotic song of Utah’s
sons and daughters. We know no other
country, it is our first and only love. The
grandsires of the pioneers—our fathers,
and the valiant soldiers of the Revolution,
in the struggle for independence, marched
shoulder to shoulder, fought and bled and
died on the same battle fields. In the time
of war, the union’s loyal sons have braved
the fight, and faithful wives and mothers
prayed. We would not ask for war to give
the test, that were disregardful of the
nation’s weal; but oh, believe me! there
beats within our breasts hearts that are true!
We would be good and upright citizens of
the grand Republic. We would emulate
the virtues of the tried and true. Wash-
ington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Grant, all by
us are known and loved. Then extend to
us the hand of friendship, let your hearts
express good will thus man to man is re-
conciled and the purposes of God fulfilled.
Behold! and lo! In the western sky a
shining star appears and that star—Utah,
“Queen of the West.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OUR VISIT TO BEAVER CO.

Editor Exponent:—
	A NUMBER of ladies and gentlemen
representing different associations in this
county started from Beaver Aug 8, to visit
Adamsville and Minersville. Of the Relief
Society were the Stake President, Sister
Lucinda Howd, Sister R. W. Tyler, Presi-
dent of Beaver Relief Society and her
Counselor Sister Jane Bickly. Of the Y.
L. M. I. A. were the Stake President Mrs.
Sarah Maeser and her counselor Mrs. Lot-
tie Stoney. Of the Primary Assodation
were Stake President Mrs. M. E. Murdock
and her Counselor Mrs. Jane Gillis. Of
the Suffrage Association were Mrs. L. Jones
Mr. J. R. Murdock and Mr. G. W. Bickly.
	The party was absent three days, traveled
thirty six miles, and held eight meetings in
the interest of the above named associations.
The meetings were well attended and every
body seemed to enjoy themselves re-
markably well. In Adamsville the Young
Ladies and Primary Association were re-
organized and put in good running order.


The subjects treated upon were: the
training of children, necessity of sustaining
the different orgnizations, of exercising
charity, of good examples and strict
obedience; the storing of wheat, fulfillment
of prophecies, healing of the sick by the
laying on of hands, and our perfect system
of government a grand and noble edifice
which each one is helping to build. In the
suffrage meetings the nearness to statehood,
the necessity of Utah giving full suffrage to
all of her citizens, and kindred subjects
were spoken of. We returned to our home
feeling well paid for our trip and realizing
that such visits are not made often enough
as they tend to create an interest in, and
sympathy for, one another, promoting peace,
harmony and union with all interested in
the great work of the Latter-days.
	L. JONES, Stake Sec.


A NEW BOOK

	WOMEN workers along all lines will feel
a special interest in the book about to be
issued under the title of “Intellectual
California.” This is a resume of intellect-
ual progress in that State as presented in
the Congresses held simultaneously with
the Mid-Winter Fair.
	The work is in three volumes including
(1) History of the Fair; (2) The Con-
gresses; (3) The Congresses and the School
System. Prominence is given to the
Woman’s Congress and the Woman’s Con-
gress of Missions, both of which were epoch
making in the intellectual life of women of
the Pacific Coast. The cost of each volume
is three dollars ($3.00) and may be sub-
scribed for separately.
	Charles Freeman Johnson, the official
reporter to both the Fair and the Con-
gresses, is issuing this book. He is an
Eastern man whose mother, Dr. Maria Nye
Johnson, was for some years well known
in Philadelphia through her successful,
medical practice. Her son has imbibed
from her an enthusiasm for the woman’s
cause and I know his report of what Cali-
fornia Pacific Coast Women are doing will
be a valuable one and can be safely com-
mended to the interest and patronage of the
readers of the WOMANS' EXPONENT.
	I hope the circulation of this valuable
book will not be confined to Western read-
ers. Mr. Johnson’s address is room 3,
fifth floor, Mills Building, San Francisco,
Cal.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


SENATOR HAAR in his article, published
in The Century quoted the following para- 
graph. Rufus Choate, in his great speech
to the Whigs at Salem, in 1848, says:
	“I do not suppose I enter on any delicate or
debatable region of social philosophy; sure I am
that I concede away nothing which I ought to
assert for our sex when I say that the collective
womanhood of a people like our own, seizes with
matchless facility and certainty on the moral and
personal peculiarities and character of marked
and conspicuous men, and that we may very
wisely address, ourselves to her to learn if, a com-
petitor for the highest honors has revealed that
truly noble nature that entitles him to a place in
the hearts of a nation. We talk and think of
measures of creeds in politics of availability of
strength to carry the vote of Pennsylvania, or the
vote of Mississippi. Through all this, her eyes
seek the moral, prudential, social, and mental
character of the man himself—and she finds it!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WILD ROSES.

I DWELL in a high mountain home,
And 'mid its vales I love to roam,
In the twilight's waning hours
Gath’ring fragrant wild wood flowers,
With pure delight o’er hill and dell,
To gather ferns, and the wild blue bell;
But of all flow’rs I love the best 
The sweet wild roses of the west. 
Reminding me of love’s young dream 
Where wandering by brook and stream, 
Oft in my girlhood’s days of yore;
(That dream has fled to come no more)
I gathered roses fresh and fair
And twin’d them in my dark brown hair
How can I help loving them best 
Beautiful roses of the west.

There are many flowers by the way side,
They’ve bloom’d in beauty then drooped and
	died;
O’er all the landscape green and fair
A master hand hath painted rare;
’mid all the splendor behold the green 
Of nature’s robe, she reigns as queen;
Yet in my heart I love the best
The dear wild roses of the west.
While I dwell in my mountain home 
No dearer pleasure to me will come,
Than to pluck the wildest flower that grows,
But best of all, 1 love the wild rose;
And when life’s feverish dreams are o’er
And ’mong the living I’m known no more
I ask no garland upon my breast 
Save only the wild rose of the west.
	SARAH STOCK.


HARVEST TIME.

HARVEST time, and a bright glad sun,
Sends its beams o’er the yellowing fields;
The heavy grain, and sweet-scented meadows,
All tell of bounteous yields;
The clang of mower, and clash of scythe
Are gathering the yield of the soil;
Every where is fruitfulness
To gladden the sons of toil.
We will gather it in with thankfulness;
Truly Our God is good,
For He might have sent us barrenness,
Through tempest wind or flood,
We are so small to His mightiness,
So weak, so prone to wrong;
But from the “Strength of the hills” and valleys
Our God has made us strong.
We were driven into the wilderness;
We were scourged by tyranny’s power,
We were sent to the mountain’s solitude—
But, now comes the promised hour,
When Joseph’s may succor their brethren,—
When the fruits of a harvest field
Will be drawn from the wayward multitudes,
Whom to righteousness will not yield.
Let us gather in the harvest
With joy and praise, and prayer;
While giving thanks for the plenty
Garner all with the greatest care;
In humility praise the Giver
For the fruits of the harvest field
Remembering where much is given,
In return we much must yield.
	M. E. T. GRIEFITH.


THREE young Turkish women have
recently arrived in France in order to go
through a regular course of medical train-
ing at French universities. One of them
is the daughter of a pasha.


A SUGGESTIVE BOOK.

	A VERY interesting little work by
Charlotte Carmichael Stopes, entitled “Brit-
isn Free-women—their Historical Privilege”
has been recently issued.
	This book is the' result of careful and
comprehensive investigation of constitu-
tional History, Statutes, Rolls of Parlia-
ment, State papers, and works on Law,
History, and Archaeology, both printed and
in manuscript of all sorts, ancient and
modern, the facts gathered and classified,
summing themselves under the Ethnologi-
cal head, the Philogical, the Legal, the
Historical, and the Biblical.
	In her preface the author says in regard


to first: the Ethnological head.— “The
racial characteristics of our ancestors. They
reverenced women.
	Second. All old statutes are couched in
general terms. Through, a deficiency in
the English language, the word ‘man’ is a
common term, including women as well as
man, even by statute.
	Third. The Legal.—All old laws are
also couched in general terms. Sir Edward
Coke, was only a fellow mortal, liable to
error. The late Laureate speaks of the
liberties of men as widening down from
precedent to precedent. We find that the
liberties of women have, on the other hand,
been narrowed down from precedent to
precedent.”
	She finds that women have been Queen’s
Consort; Queen’s Regnant, and Queen’s
Regent. That as noble women they have
received homage, held courts baron, and
held by military service. That they could
be knights; could and did inherit public
offices; could be high sheriff, high constable,
high steward, high chamberlain and gover-
nor of royal castles. That as peeresses
they could be, and were summoned to Par-
liament in person or by proxy.
	That as county women they could be
Freeholders: could elect Knights of the
Shire; could elect members of private
boroughs, etc.
	As Free women they could be members
of Guilds; have Guilds of their own, and
did. In the reign of Edward the Fourth
there is a petition recorded in the Parlimen-
tary rolls, from the “Silkewomen” and
“Throwsters” of the “crafte” of “Silke-
work,” 1,000 in number, praying for leave
to combine, and asking for “protection,’’
against the introduction of foreign manu-
factured silk goods. They were also free
of the city of London, as were all who
paid taxes, “Scot and Lot;” and free of
other boroughs. They could be members
of corporations, and could vote for members
of Parliament.
	The constructions put upon law, and the
decisions of Sir Edward Coke first seriously
assailed the liberties of women, and these
have been followed by the increasing
power, as tests of human value, of money
and military service.
	The author sees now the “turn of the
tide,” and sums up in her closing pages
the work that has been, and is being ac-
complished.  It is, however, still true that
whatever it is for women to gain it is also
necessary to vigilantly hold and keep.
	THE NEW CYCLE.


MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW has accepted
a position as associate editor of the New
Cycle, the official organ of the General
Federation of Women’s Clubs.
	MARY FROST ORMSBY has for the fourth
time been appointed by the American Peace
Society a delegate to the Peace Congress
which meets in Antwerp, Aug, 29. 
	MISS FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE has been
appointed an honorary president of the
Tropical Section of the International Con-
gress of Hygiene and Demography, to be
held at Budapest from September 1 to 9,, Ex.
	MISS HAMILTON, of India, who has just
been appointed the physician of the harem
of the Ameer of Afghanistan, will be ac-
companied wherever she goes by a personal
guard of six native soldiers. Ex.


WOMAN SUFRAGE COLUMN.

MANTI W. S. A.

	SYNOPSIS of meeting of Manti W. S. A.
held in the Ladies’ Hall Wednesday Even-
ing August 15th. President A. L. Cox in
the chair. Meeting called to order prompt-
ly at 8:30. Singing, “The New America”
from the suffrage song book. Opening
prayer by Mrs. Wareham.
	The President then addressed the meet-
ing, expressed her pleasure at seeing so
many of the ladies at the close of the
summer vacation. Hoped they had formed
resolutions to redouble their zeal and energy
in the good cause of Equal Rights during
the coming season. Spoke of approaching
Statehood and its possibilities for the disfran-
chised half of the population. Referred
with pleasure to the presence of Miss Alice
Chapin of Mass., who would now address
the association.
	Miss Chapin expressed her pleasure in
meeting with the ladies of the W. S. A.
and although not a public speaker in the
usual acceptance of the term, was proud to
raise her voice in behalf of equal, suffrage.
Gave some very interesting reminiscences of
her father’s experience an abolitionist
and suffragist in connection with Wendell
Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Henry
Blackwell and others whose friend and co-
laborer he was. Told of the abuse and
social ostracism they had endured as a
penalty for promulgating an unpopular
doctrine. Referred to the striking change
in public sentiment which had taken
place in the last forty years. Said that
where the daily papers in the East once
gave a column of invective and sarcasm
when mentioning a suffrage meeting, they
now gave respectful notice in their local
columns that such a meeting had been held.
The speaker had no doubts as to the ulti-
mate success of the suffrage movement.
Thought all women should be preparing
themselves for citizenship, lest they prove
as incompetent in that capacity as some
men had done. Miss Chapin’s speech was
well received and a rising vote at the close
testified to the appreciation of her audience.
	She was followed by Mrs. Wareham, 
who endorsed the sentiments of the previous
speaker, thought the ballot in the hands of
women would do much to rid the nation of
the sin and infamy of the liquor traffic.
A comic speech by Mrs. Sidwell was well
received and occasioned considerable merri-
ment. After closing remarks by the Presi-
dent the singing of the “Star Spangled
Banner,” the meeting adjourned till Aug.
28th. Benediction by Mrs. Kenner.
A. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE’ B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
Exponent office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMANS EXPONENT.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.  
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second, class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, September 1,1894.


[Column 1]

THE NEED OF THE HOUR.
	THERE never has been a time when
there was greater need of activity and
diligence in looking after the interests of
this community than the present. To
securely guard all the sacred rights of the
people of fair Utah should be the first con-
sideration of those who assemble in the
various districts and conventions. In these
serious matters partisanship should be un-
known. It is a common interest for the
well-being of the state with all its people
and not for the few who manipulate its
affairs. The whole commonwealth and
all the various needs, of all the departments
of labor, education, enterprise, and every-
thing which enters into the growth and
prosperity of a people depend largely upon
the work of these preliminary proceedings
being well and judiciously done. The
future development of a country of innum-
erable resources to be cultivated, and il-
limitable wealth to be produced by the
energy, perserverance, thrift and industry
of its sons and daughters, will depend
greatly upon the magnificence of the Con-
stitution which is soon to be formed by
delegates chosen from among the people.
O, that supreme wisdom may be given
them as it was to our forefathers, who
framed the glorious Constitution of our
great Republic. If they will only build
strong and well that the highest attainment
possible may be achieved by the state and
the' largest freedom and opportunity given
to all her citizens irrespective of sex.
	The men who frame the Constitution for
the State of Utah are expected to build a
structure that will be permanent, that will
have a sure foundation and will not need
continually patching up because it is not
equally well poised and properly balanced
in all its parts; the strangers who visit
beautiful Utah all agree that it has the ad-
vantage of almost any other section of
country in our broad land in natural
facilities and in beauty of location, and
therefore it should have the best, the wisest
and the strongest Constitution, to corres-
pond with its belongings.
	There is no doubt of the progress of the
Western world in time to come, and it can
already boast of its brave, grand, loyal and
patriotic sons and daughters, born in these
Western wilds of hardy pioneer ances-
try, and these brave, true, strong and
patriotic men (for women have not yet the
privilege) are about to take into their keep-
ing the future well-being of the new state,

[Column 2]
and to say what its laws shall be, or to
vote upon these momentous questions.
How will they consider the interests of the
sex who have no representation save
through them? Will their claims to citizen-
ship be guaranteed to them through these
great grand noble hearted sons of the soil.
They must be trusted with this live ques-
tion, it cannot be ignored for this is the wo-
man’s age of the world and now the imper-
ative need of the hour, is pending. Shall
woman see Utah crowned with the
honors of statehood and be content that
men shall represent her at the polls. Let
them take for their standard in this matter
the declaration of Abraham Lincoln, who
said, “I go in for all, sharing the privileges
of the government among those who assist
in bearing its burdens, by no means ex-
cluding women."


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY EXCURSION. 

	THE first excursion the Relief Society
ever had was celebrated on Friday, August
24, 1894. and was a most interesting oc-
casion. Some of the committee went over
to the Lake in the forenoon to look after
matters, and at 2.15 p. m. there were four-
teen cars crowded full to overflowing, 
left the depot en route for Saltair. Arriv-
ing at the pavilion baskets were deposited 
in the great dining hall and the committee
and their aids prepared for the program of 
exercises. The Relief Society banner had been 
hung in a conspicuous place, also the 
streamer representing the Silk Industry, 
noting the time the association was 
organized by President Brigham Young. 
	President George Q. Cannon who had 
been specially invited to speak and President
Angus M. Cannon, Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, E. B. Wells, M.
W. Wilcox, E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. 
Howe and L. D. Alder and several other 
members of the committee and of the 
Relief Society were seated on the platform. 
The Committee wore badges of white rib-
bon, the name Relief Society and the motto
"Charity never faileth" in gold letters, 
emblematic of the work of the Society. 
	The exercises opened with the favorite
hymn "O, my Father thou that dwellest," 
the large audience being asked to join in 
the singing. President Angus M. Cannon
offered prayer. 
	President George Q. Cannon gave a 
short speech suitable to the occasion upon 
the grand work accomplished by the Relief 
Society among the needy, the sick and the 
afflicted, and referred in terms of praise
and encouragement to the diligence and 
patience with which the sisters had labored, 
setting forth the aims and objects of the 
Society and the blessing it had been to 
many, and praying the blessing of the Lord 
upon the efforts made and upon the assem-
bly there gathered etc. 
	The Cecelia Club nine young ladies all 
fine singers rendered in excellent voice the 
song of "Mother's Lullaby." The Swiss
Warblers in costume, three ladies and two 
gentlemen in the quaint fashion of their 
native country were an attractive feature,
and their musical warble so well suited to
the Swiss mountains sounded well in the 
great open pavilion. Mrs. C. Louise
Boyden the elocutionist gave a "Model 
Discourse" (humorous) and Eli H. Pierce
sang a comic song. "There's a lock on the 
chicken coop door." Master Bertie Clive

[Column 2]
five years old, gave two selections on the 
violin and was loudly applauded; the child
is a musical genius, as was his father, who is 
now a fine violinist. Thomas Dobson who 
came over the plains with the hand-cart
company and had both his feet frozen, re-
lated a little of his sad experience, and then 
gave the Fisher's hornpipe. The Highland 
Fling by Miss Mabelle Derrick in costume 
was very pleasing, she gives it in good 
style, and the dress is specially becoming. 
Martin Lenzi gave one of his fancy dances, 
he is still light upon his feet, and dances
wonderfully, though in his 80th year. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Hunter a Scotch woman in her
Highland costume gave us a Scotch dance, 
(she is also somewhere in the seventies)
and fond of the exercise, complained the 
music was not fast enough; she has won
many prizes for her dancing in times past. 
Miss Lyle Young gave the old fashioned
Minuet, in the most graceful manner. Al- 
together the program was a success, though
we had one or two disappointments. Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edwards who was to have
sung a selection of her own but was too ill
to be present, and the Harmony Glee Club
(all male voices) which was expected to 
lead out failed, when too late to secure some
other number in its place, but all things
considered it was very satisfactory. After 
the exercises Richard Horne who had
called off the program pronounced the 
benediction, and the audience dispersed. 
	The lunch prepared by a refreshment
Committee of which Elizabeth J. Stevenson
was chairman, was most delicious and
appetizing. The entire Committee and 
those who gave their services to assist with 
the program were invited to partake of the 
bountiful repast. 
	The object of the gathering was particu-
larly to obtain means to aid in establishing
other home manufactures in connection
with the Woman's  Co-operative Store, that 
those who needed employment to obtain 
the necessaries and comforts of life during
the coming winter might have remunerative
work and not be dependent upon charity, 
which makes people feel so much better 
than receiving help. We cannot state now 
just how large a sum has been raised but 
as the percentage allowed was only one
fourth, it could not be a great deal. 
	The Committee  feel very grateful to all 
those who assisted in any and every way to 
make it a success and especially so to those
who so willingly and liberally gave their 
services to make the program interesting, 
those who sang, danced, recited etc. Mrs. 
Horne and the ladies associated with her
may congratulate themselves that the day 
was an enjoyable one and the party was a 
very happy occasion as a reunion for a 
faithful band of diligent workers.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city on Friday Sep.
21. Meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. A punctual at-
tendance of the Presidents or representa-
tives from all the several branches in the
County is specially requested, and as many
of the numbers as can make it convenient
to be present. It is very desirable to have
this conference numerously attended as it is
expected much teaching in reference to
home industries, and other matters pertain-
ing to the interests of the Society will be


given. Bishops and brethren cordially in-
vited. M. Isabella Horne, President.
	MRS. JUDITH ELLEN FOSTER, of nation-
al name and reputation, visited Utah
recently, remaining only three or four days.
Mrs. Foster is the President of the Non-
Partisan W. C. T. U. and also of the Re-
publican Clubs of Women of the United
States. The lady gave a very eloquent and 
effective address in the Tabernacle in this
City on Sunday, Aug. 26, to a very num-
erous congregation, her subject being the
Christian Citizen. The same evening Mrs.
Foster spoke in the Methodist Church on
Third South St. her speech was suitable for
a Sabbath evening, she read and quoted
several passages of Scripture. Mrs. Foster
also spoke upon Republicanism to crowded
houses here in  the old Federal Court Room,
and also in Provo. A party in honor of
Mr. and Mrs. Foster and the wife of
Senator Warren Wyoming, visited Saltair
on Monday afternoon; the visitors expressed
themselves delighted with the beautiful
pavilion, and with the invigorating salt
water bathing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, July
14th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “When
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer
by Sister Brown. Continued singing,
“Satans Empire,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne said “although few in number today,
we are promised the spirit of the Lord if
we meet in his name; we are entering upon
hard times, every kind of distress will be
poured out upon the inhabitants of the
earth, we should cultivate the spirit of love
and sympathy, be charitable to all, we can 
be kind to our enemies. There are many
allurements for the youth of Zion. Mothers
should be diligent in teaching the princi-
ples of the Gospel to their children while
they are young, in contemplating on the
signs of the times, we can see the hand of
the Lord in the troubles of today. Many 
of our friends are detained from home on
account of these strikes. Poor men show
they are envious of the rich, by their des-
truction of property. As saints of God we
should be awake to our duties. I am sorry
more of the sisters are not obeying the
counsel of Brother Young and laying up
wheat, also of sustaining home-industry.
If we had obeyed his wise counsel, we
should have been wearing our own manu-
factured clothing today, and the blessings
of the Lord would have been poured out
upon us; forty years ago my husband was
sent south to see if cotton could be raised;
how little progress we have made in all
this time in manufacturing our own wear-
ing apparel. Brother Brigham said if we
did not improve we would fall when Baby-
lon falls. He used to say, “It takes a
wise man to build up, but any one can pull
down.” Brigham Young did a wonderful
work in bringing the people to these valleys,
Brother Taylor followed him. Now
Brother Woodruff is doing a great work.
He is one of the most humble and faithful,
for his meekness, the Lord has greatly
blessed him in giving inspiration in regard
to Temple work. We have been asleep, 
not knowing that trials are so near. Let
us awake. I would do anything in my

[Column 2]
power to arouse my sisters in this Stake,
pray for a spirit of discernment, many false
spirits are in our midst, teach and interest
your children in the principles of the Gos-
pel, that we may not be condemned.”
	Sister Maria Snow of St. George Stake,
said, “I don’t think I can add any thing to
the remarks of Sister Horne. With her I
realize we are a little slack in our duties,
especially in our labor for the dead. I fear
we are too much carried away with the
things of the world. We must not lose
sight of the blessings promised for faithful-
ness. We are surely living in eventful
times. I never fully realized what was
meant by strikes until now. Calamities of
all kinds may be looked for in fulfillment
of prophecy. I will say to my sisters, don’t
neglect your meetings if you don’t want to
lose blessings. Keep your lamps trimmed
and burning.” Made some interesting re-
marks about the saints and their labors in
St. George.
	One sister said, I have spent the happiest
days of my life here in Salt Lake. I take
great interest in Young Ladies Meetings.
My daughters are engaged in the Primaries,
which gives me much joy. I am doing all
the good I can where I live. I have many
trials, there is nothing that has taken so
strong a hold on me as these meetings,
the testimonies of my sisters always give
me strength to bear my burdens more
patiently etc.
	Sister Rolleman thanked the Lord for her
home in these blessed mountains. Like my
sisters I have many trials, I desire to live
humble, and I know all will  be well with
us if we keep the commandments of God.
Made other remarks.
	One Sister related a very interesting
dream or vision, in which the Prophet
Joseph appeared in person to her mother,
in response to a request made by her, to a
son who had died, asking him to come
back and tell her if Mormonism was true.
Brother Joseph said, is there some thingr
you wish to ask me, she answered nothing,
the question was repeated the third time.
	Counselor Stevenson, spoke with much
spirit upon the necessity of mothers teach-
ing their daughters to do house work, said
there are many girls marry without knowing
how to be the least help to their husbands.
I believe the happiness of many a home has
been destroyed through this very thing.
Its the duty of every mother to teach their
daughters economy and to be industrious.
I think its time retrenchment was brought
to our young people, I am a great hand to
preach by example, it is said of us, we
care not for those not of our faith. Let us
live above criticism,show by our works that
we are true, speak of the goodness of God
one to another. I don’t believe there is
one in this congregation, but what has had
a testimony, it is the spirit of the adver-
versy that holds us back. The time has
come when we should be known by our
works. I have no time to run after the
various schemes of the day. Meeting was
adjourned for two weeks. Sung Doxology.
Benediction Sister Julia C. Howe.
			VILATE YOUNG, Sec.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall July 28, 1894. President Horne
presiding; opened by singing, “Come,
come ye Saints." Prayer Counselor Webb.
Singing, “Oh! Say what is truth, etc.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.

[Column 3]
	President Horne said, “I wish to talk a
few minutes about the manner of voting.
Brother Penrose gave some good instruc-
tions in regard to it. At the Eighteenth
Ward Conference, he said when we vote it
should be in a way, that will show we are
interested in the duty before us, lift the
arm to the square. I am well pleased
with the liberal response of officers and
stockholders, to the call made to be present
at this meeting, as I have business of im-
portance to lay before the sisters, I feel the
time has come that a united effort should
be made, to sustain and build up home in-
dustry and institutions; at the late Relief
Society conference over Jordan the sisters
concluded to try and gather, straw and see
what they could do in hat making, our hard
times have only commenced, the brethren
are taking hold of home industry with
great interest; we don’t want them to go
ahead of us; a word must be said in regard
to our Woman’s Store, we have had a hard
struggle for three and a half years, and are
still alive, but not by the patronage of the
sisters. If all were united other industries
might be carried on with the same expense,
that it requires to ruen the store. The
Lord says, ‘I will have a people that will
live by sacrifice.’ Why can’t we come to
that and sustain our own institutions. We
don’t know how soon our supplies may be
cut off. Its fearful to contemplate the trials
of the inhabitants of the earth; calamities
by fire and water, and accidents of every
kind. I hope we will take warning by the
signs of the times, and be prepared for
things to come. My grand-son bought a
couple of shirts, and I thought upon exam-
ining them, how much better to have them
made at home, than sending our means
away, and leaving our girls without em-
ployment. There are many branches of
industry we can take hold of if we are
united as Relief Society Sisters. We
ought to combine our interests. One can’t
do it alone, we must remember ‘where
there’s a will there’s a way.’ We talk a
good deal about suffrage, we thought in
starting the store it would be just what we
needed. But have been disappointed in
some of our calculations. I will now leave
the subject before you hoping to hear from
others.”
	Sister L. D. Alder, my Sunday School
Class has been reading about the downfall
of Jerusalem, how the people disregarded
the warning. The down fall came just the
same, Brother Cannon has given us words
of warning as well as others. How often
we are told to prepare ourselves for trying
times, we can easily see how soon we can
be cut off from the outside world, by the ex-
perience of the past few weeks. Brother
Woodruff says destruction is in the very
air. We can imagine what the condition
will be when brother is arrayed against
brother and those who will not take up the
sword must flee to Zion for safety. I have
worked at the straw work years ago, we
had hats for sale also rag carpets, in the
Relief Society. I am anxious these home
industries should succeed for I am just as
sure as can be things will come, as has been
predicted.
	Sister C. C. Raleigh Wells:—“I can en-
dorse what Sister Horne says in regard to
the struggle we have had to keep, our store
running, I believe the move was given by
inspiration. Have kept up against all
drawbacks, have never felt for a moment
we would fail. Men would have given up
long ago. Our intention in the beginning


was to furnish employment for some of our
girls, we had other aims, and desires, have
been disappointed in many things. The
Relief Society is well established if each
would give us a little of their patronage
it would be a great help to us. Its a re-
proach to us, that this is the only ladies’
store we have; thus far we have not had
thanks for our labor but reproach, I hope
the sisters from this on, will assist and
make this institution what we intended it
to be. There is no need of failure if we
cant get what we want at the store. You
could if you give us your patronage. We
could carry a much larger stock. Sister
Alder spoke my fellings, have been looking
for these times, we will surely be cut off,
if things continue as they are: we have it
I know, I hope every Sister will take hold
with us if we dont heed the warnings,
we will be sure to feel the mistakes made;
spoke a few words on Silk Culture.
	Sister Susan Grant of Davis County said
I take great interest in Home Industry.
Always trade at the Woman’s Store. Also
advise the sisters in our stake to do so. If
we cant see the fulfillment of Prophecy I
dont know what it will take to open our
eyes. I feel to sustain Home Industry in
every branch. The Lord tells us to adorn
ourselves with the workmanship of our own
hand we should put our shoulder to the
wheel. Have good and competent workers 
in the Davis Stake. In years past I always
felt like getting in a corner and staying
there; since taking an active part in public
duties, have experienced great joy in my
labors.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox felt to endorse all
said by previous speakers. All are willing
to sustain Sister Horne in spiritual affairs.
Why not the same in regard to these in-
dustries, I am very much interested in the
straw work, think our young ladies would
do well to take hold of this branch. The
Relief Society can be a great help if they are
interested.
	Sister Minerva Snow was pleased to again
have the privilege of meeting with the
sisters. "I love to hear the testimonies and
enjoy the spirit present. I know Sister
Horne was inspired in making the remarks
she has, it is a step in the right direction.
Its time we aroused ourselves, if all would
take hold what a work could be accomplish-
ed. The time will come when we will not
have Sister Horne with us, much as we de-
sire it. I know she is inspired of God, let
us work and sustain and encourage her in
her labors. I would like to take up a class
in straw work if I had the straw. Have
just taken a trip in behalf of silk culture.
I can see the hand of the Lord in the signs
of the times. He will carry us through if
we keep hold of the iron rod.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, I am not a
director but I am a stockholder, and I am a
patronizer of the store. Am interested in
this move. Capitalists say, the hardest
toil is to make the first five hundred dollars,
would like to see this enterprise increased,
and eventually brought into a banking
institution, would like to see it become so
popular, that our sisters would be glad to
go there. Am satisfied Sister Horne, has
worked diligently, for one I feel like sus-
taining her. I pray God to bless all who
put forth an effort to save or furnish em-
ployment for our girls, etc.
	Sister. E. B. Wells, I feel especially in-
terested, in the Industrial question, am par-
ticularly interested in any thing that will
help our girls. I don’t forget how Sister

[column 2]
Barney nearly worked herself to death,
and others too, to establish straw braiding
some years ago. There are some beautiful
flowers at the store made by our sisters,
come and see them. I would like to see
the store sustained. We have a market for
silk and cocoons if we need to sell, but I
prefer keeping the silk at home. The
Japanese will make reels, and teach the
reeling if any one wishes to learn it. Sister
Jennings has a class of about eighteen or
twenty girls teaching them to sew to enable
them to become self-supporting. I am
greatly in favor of the excursion to Saltair
in the interest of home industry. I would
like to hear from Sister Jennings.”
	Sister Jennings said, “last winter I saw
the need of helping the young girls. There
are many who can’t get employment, they
can’t sew, and are unable to take care of
themselves. I concluded to organize a
class and give all who would like to attend
the opportunity of learning to sew, we are
getting along quite satisfactorily I
went to the Co-op store and asked them if
they would stop sending for things we
could make at home, they promised to take
all we could lay down at the price they buy.
I am interested in the Womans Co-op, tell
members of my family to buy there, am
satisfied myself, but I have to trade where
my investments are.”
	Sister Horne made closing remarks. We
don’t want to pull against each other, but
branch out in all things. We had hoped to
own a large place before this and be able to
have more employed to help themselves,
have done the best we could under the cir-
cumstances, we may have made mistakes,
have always been desirous to please our
patrons, we will work for the good of Zion,
in temporal as well as spiritual things, the
existing troubles may lull for a while. We
had hoped to have a bureau of information
have failed thus far, we had lofty aims when
we started out; without support we could
not carry them through.
	Sister Taylor said a few words in praise
of Sister Horne and her assistants. "If you
knew how these women have struggled to
keep the store alive, men would have given
up long ago, I don’t think it would have
been possible for them to have kept their
heads above water. Great credit is due to
these sisters, and its our duty to sustain
them.’’ Donations were received and
several shares were taken. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Benediction Sister
E. Pixton. 		V. R. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XLI.
	NATURALLY Mrs. Bland was very lonely
after the Waltons had left America and she
could scarcely wait for news of their safe
arrival. She busied herself as best she
could with household duties, and the train-
ing of her little son the one object of her
especial care and devotion. He was grow-
ing to be a tall boy, and so very like his
father, in both appearance and disposition.
She had many plans in her mind concern-
ing his future, but was very seldom think-
ing of her own. Occasionally the absent
cousin Clair, and the companion of his
wanderings would come to her mind, but
she would not allow herself to form any
day-dreams even concerning what might
be should they ever meet again; Maitland
had promised to make special inquiry in

[Column 2]
London about Anna’s brother and let her
know as soon as he possibly could, what
Clair’s future was likely to be. The dull
days dragged on and at last a letter came
saying the family had arrived safely at
Walton Hall, that Mr. Harrison and Clair
Hilliard were in the East Indies at last
accounts, and would probably return shortly.
That was all the message but Mrs. Bland
felt better now, lighter-hearted knowing
the children had reached their home, and
perhaps for the other news of far away
friends.
	One day not long after the letter from
England news was circulated that a ship
was coming in, and Mrs. Bland who sel-
dom went out persuaded by her little son,
who had never seen a ship land, went down
to the shore.
	Ere long the passengers were landed and
Mrs. Bland turned her steps homeward but
she was soon followed, a quick step close
behind her caused her to look and there
seemingly scarcely a day older than when
she had last seen him was Robert Harrison.
He looked at her a moment and his first
words were “Where is my cousin Anna?’’
Explanation followed as they kept on their
way, and soon all was told amidst tears and
sobs. Strange to say Mrs. Bland did not
recall her dream though it had been so
literally fulfilled, until after she had retired
to her own apartments for the night. Mr.
Harrison had left her late and gone to the
public house where his luggage had been
taken, and she scarcely realized that she
was not even then dreaming, except that
repeating so many sad things (for Mr.
Harrison insisted upon knowing all) that
had transpired and had made the past much
more vivid, than for many a day, and she
had to struggle with herself to quiet her
nerves and regain composure after Mr.
Harrison had said good night. Conway
had been fast asleep for hours, the servants
were in bed all except her faithful Josiah
who always kept guard. Her thoughts had
wandered far back to her earlier days at the
Castle, and the many strange incidents that
had transpired there, and how seemingly
presentiments had come to her, and now the
fulfillment of her strange dream; and her
wondering of the future what it would be.
That she loved Mr. Harrison in the best
and truest way her heart demonstrated for
she felt now, he was linked in her life, and
Anna she thought how happy it would have
made her to know that the one relative of
her mother’s was to be dear cousin Jane’s
protector from henceforth, for Mr. Harrison
assured himself as he left Mrs. Bland’s
door that first night, that he should stand
by her and Anna’s children while he lived.
From Mrs. Bland’s account of Maitland he
had concluded he would not take more than
a general interest in the children, and past
experiences of Lady Walton, had not given
him a very high estimate of her ability to
successfully train and rear the children now
committed to her care.
	The love he had felt for Jane Conway
ere he knew of her engagement to Dr.
Bland had been kept in abeyance while she
was a wife, but when he met her as a
widow his heart went out to her and all the
pent-up emotions seemed to redouble their
force, and he determined to offer his hand
and heart; she had spoken to him of young
Barrington, and he had recognized from
what she said, his own nephew, and had
been interested at once; he would find this
young minister and make assurance doubly
sure that he was Sidney Barrington the


[Column 1]
only child of his only sister, who had died
when her boy was born, and the father soon
after. Mr. Harrison had asked Mrs. Bland
several direct questions concerning the
young minister, but she had not in the
least suspected the relationship, nor had it
even struck her as a coincidence that his
uncle was eccentric or away in foreign parts
which Mr. Barrington had said to her
that night when alluding to his loneliness.
	The following morning Mr. Harrison
went direct to John Austin’s humble home,
and inquired for Mr. Barrington. On see-
ing him he was so struck by his resem-
blance to his mother, that he could scarcely
speak, Barrington observing his emotion
and noticing him to be a stranger by his
dress and manner intuitively felt that he
must be his uncle, and the prophetic words
of Mrs. Bland came instantly to his mind,
"he will come and look you up in this new
land.”
	When Mr. Harrison recovered himself
sufficiently, he addressed his nephew
familiarly as though he had always known
him. “Sidney my boy you are so like
your mother I was near breaking down, and
that is an unusual thing for a man at my
time of life, one who has knocked about as
I have in many countries on the land and
on the sea, but it is my good fortune to
find you here in this wild place, and to learn
how you have won the respect and confi-
dence of some of my dear friends, and now
I propose to take you under my special
care, as if I were your own father, and I 
shall ask these good Christian people to get
another preacher, and you shall have a
vacation.”
	The young man could scarce find voice
to reply, he was so completely overcome
with the declaration of his new-found uncle,
who spoke like an oracle, but realizing how
stupid it was not to reply, he roused him-
self and asked, “How did you find me out,
have you been in London recently, did you 
learn of me through Houghton & Co.?”
	“No I’ve not been in London since com-
ing from abroad, I am just from the West
Indies, and had not even thought of you,
except perhaps casually, since I learned you
had taken to the pulpit, but I’m not going
to find fault with you for that, or anything
else, Mrs. Bland tells me you’re a capital
fellow, almost her sole friend here, and that
you stood by Anna my foster-daughter and
were a great solace in her most trying
hours. For these kindnesses alone you
would deserve my gratitude, but as you are
really my kinsman, and as we are somewhat
alone in the world, with no near relatives
we must become better acquainted, and now
if you have breakfasted, let us walk out
together in the open air, and talk of ou[-]
relationship. I am not a man of ceremonies
as you see, but we shall get on agreeably
doubtless, and as you are intimate at Mrs.
Bland’s we will call there later on, and as-
tonish her with the news that we have found
each other.”
	“I was not aware you knew Mrs. Bland
uncle, I only just guessed from what you
said now, that she had told you of me, but
does she not know you are my relative, how
then came she to speak of me, and how did
you know Mrs. Bland?”
	“All these questions in one, I know Mrs.
Bland through Anna Hilliard, and I found
her by accident much as I have you; I was
in London, in the gay season, and met Lady
Anna Hilliard at a party and was struck
with her resemblance to my cousin Clarice
Courtney, and by inquiring learned she

[Column 2]
was her daughter. I called unceremonious-
ly and met Miss Conway since Mrs.Bland and
some other time, I may tell you more, but
for the present, that is sufficient explanation
and now let us go.”
	Once in the open air the two gentlemen
conversed freely, the younger one more
reticent was unwilling to acknowledge he
needed rest or even a change, but he found
his uncle determined to carry his point, and
he finally consented that he would go with
him to good old Deacon Meredith and ask
for his release. Mr. Harrison declared it
must be final, his nephew argued against
it, but the elder man was the stronger, and
when Mrs. Bland joined in the persuasion,
the young minister gave way and the con-
sent was gained; the old Deacon was pro-
fuse in his praise of dear Mr. Barrington,
and so delighted to know of his distinguish-
ed uncle.
	Mr. Harrison received a letter from
Clair not long after his arrival in America,
and as Clair had found that his cousin Jane
was now a widow, and was well aware how
matters stood with Robert Harrison, he
inquired particularly whether there was
any hope of his being successful in winning 
the affections of his cousin, and added,
“she is the bravest, truest, most conscien-
tious, and withal the most superior woman
I have ever known, even Lady Walton
says, she has never seen her equal."	
	Mr. Harrison concealed these inquiries
from Mrs. Bland, but read it all to his
nephew, who coincided and was even more
enthusiastic in her praise. By this time
the two men understood each other very
well, in fact Mr. Harrison was at first very
much afraid, the young minister was him-
self in love with the widow, and the par-
ishioners of conrse had not been slow in
circulating the story of the intimacy, so the
new arrival should hear of it. Mr. Harri-
son however, soon found how matters stood,
and questioned Sidney very closely concern-
ing his friendship for Anna. Sidney ad-
mitted Maitland’s jealousy but explained
that it was totally unfounded, that he had
been strongly attracted to Lady Walton
from the time he first met her on board
ship, and said he “Uncle Robert it was one
of those peculiar fascinations that I seemed
to have no power to control, it was purely
spontaneous, and I believe she felt it as
strongly as I did, for she confided in me
with the utmost freedom, and I could not
account for it, nor can I even now, though
I know the kinship that existed, O, if
Anna could have known we were cousins,
what a pleasure it would have been!”
	Many were the long talks these two had
together. and with Mrs. Bland, but Mr.
Barrington did not lose any of that deep
religious fervor through his association with
his uncle but in this respect he unconscious-
ly helped him to look upward and to be
more spiritual in his character; and indeed
the society with which he mingled Puritani-
cal as it was, lifted him out of himself, and
he grew gradually more religious in tem-
perament through these dominant influences
that were all about him. He was long
past his youth, and even the meridian of
life, and Mrs. Bland when thinking serious-
ly of the future, could not but wonder at
the fate that seemed to suggest that she
should unite herself in marriage the second
time with a man so many years her senior.
Robert Harrison had let her see from the
first how sacredly he held her, and Clair
wrote again and again to her urging her
consent, for said he, "you will need some

[Column 3]
one to help you, even though you are so
self-reliant, my sister Anna’s children are
bound to come to you yet, Maitland is pay-
ing his addresses to one of the society belles
of London, who will never take charge of
another woman’s children, and Lady Wal-
ton looks weary and frail."
	Mrs. Bland's heart gave a great bound
when she read that letter, her love for her
cousin’s children was strong and abiding,
and she longed for them daily and hourly,
but she wavered in her feelings when she
thought of once more entering into marriage
relations. It seemed to her high sense of
justice not quite honorable to the dead,
especially as she recalled how hard it had
been for her to keep her promise to the 
Doctor, after realizing the true state of her
own feelings towards the man, who was
now so ardently and persistently urging
her consent to become his wife. She had a 
number of friends, worthy good women
but no confident, and she decided finally to
talk with Sidney, as she had learned to
speak of him, for he was like her own
brother now almost, so near her own age,
though such women as Jane Bland seem
older than their years. Mr. Harrison had
never told her of his boyish love for his
cousin Clarice, but she had heard it from
those ladies at the London ball, and she
made up her mind he must tell her if the
marriage was to be; she could not ask him, 
and she was in a sort of quandary how to
bring it about. “The old saying all things
come to those who wait,” proved true in
the life of Jane Bland.
	One evening when they were sitting in
her drawing room after dinner, and con-
versation flowed freely, Robert Harrison ad-
dressing Sidney said, "Has Mrs. Bland
ever told you of her interesting and singu-
lar experiences at Hilliard castle?”
	“Never, and I would so like to know
about that old ruin as they all term it, Lady
Walton once told me it was unbearable un-
til after her cousin Jane came to stay there,
her father was seldom at home, and so stern
and unrelenting she was always in awe of
him, and she knew nothing of her mother,
there was not even a portrait of her in the
gallery, nor anywhere, though it is said
she was uncommonly beautiful, and as you
knew her Uncle Robert (she was your own
cousin I believe) suppose you tell us of this
lovely lady, who died so young when there
was everything to live for.”
	I cannot now, at some future, some more
opportune time I mean, but pardon me it is
with great pain I hear her alluded to, her
marriage was most unfortunate, a hurried
affair, brought about by others, she never
loved Sir Edward Hilliard, never could
have loved him, her very opposite in every
thing.” Mrs. Bland watched Mr. Harri-
son scrutinizingly as he spoke of Lady
Hilliard, she had guessed as much, then he
must tell her of this, otherwise she would
never consent to the marriage he so much
desired.
	One day soon after, they were walking
together through a great forest of tall pines,
and while resting underneath the trees, Mr.
Harrison spoke of his boyhood, what a 
pleasure it had been to ramble in the green
fields and parks and grand old woods of
England, and as he talked on enthusiastical-
ly of his sister and his cousin who were his
playmates and companions, he looked up and
said abruptly, I must tell you Jane (Mrs.
Bland I mean) of my boyish love and how
I came to be such a restless rover, wander-
ing from land to land and never satisfied.


ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	To President Zina D. H. Young and the
sisters of the Central Board of the Relief
Society.
	The Reports of the Relief Society of St.
Joseph Stake are not as encouraging as we
would wish, but nevertheless we are thank-
ful that we have been able to continue to
hold our conferences quarterly, and receive
reports from the various organizations which
are holding meetings regularly with a few
exceptions. We are laboring diligently to
establish some branches of home industry,
the braiding of straw, and raising of
cotton, that we may send for a spinning
Jenny that will pick and spin the cotton, as
this is a fine country for cotton and also
silk, we really see the necessity and attach
the importance to becoming a self-sustain-
ing people, we also hold our monthly meet-
ings and urge it upon the Society in all its
branches to sustain the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and have it read in the meetings that
they may know the counsels of the Central
Board and also read the lectures upon.
Faith in their meetings and Discourses of
the First Presidency of the Church, which
will feed our immortal souls and develop
the faith that is necessary to enable us to
establish righteousness in ourselves, and
impart the same to all with whom we are
associated.
	With much love to the sisters desiring
an interest in your faith and prayers when
in conference assembled, as I am expecting
to start to Texas in a few days, having been
invited by my brothers who proffered to
pay my traveling expenses; I acknowledge
the hand of God in giving me this Mission
to enable me to get the geneology of my
kindred, as I have been at a loss how to
proceed with my work in the Temple.
	Now may Heaven’s choicest blessings
be and abide with you dear sisters, is the
fervent prayer of your devoted sister.
					WILLMIRTH EAST.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADY SOMERSET is as indefatigable a
worker as Miss Willard. During the last
year she held 115 meetings, 27 conferences,
traveled over 8,000 miles, spoke in twenty
counties to about 200,000 people, besides
being one of the editors of The Woman's
Signal.
	MRS. S. S. WETHERBEE, of Kansas,
writes to the Union Signal: “There are
now 767 prisoners in our State prison, and
of that number only fourteen are women.
And yet women are such a dangerous class
they cannot be trusted with the ballot!”
	THE old joke about the inability of a
woman to drive a nail has passed into silent
and sympathetic dust. The other day a
farmer’s wife, three miles west of town,
successfully shingled the entire one side of
her dwelling-house while her husband was
in town looking up a carpenter.—Oklahoma
Tribune.
	MISS WILLARD and Miss Gordon re-
turned to “The Eagle’s Nest” chalet, in
the Catskill Mountains, July 27, where
they will have two stenographers, and con-
tinue their work for the W. C. T. U. Miss
Willard is to complete her “Handbook of
History and Methods,” her booklet on
“How I Learned the Bicycle, with reflec-
tions by the Way,” and, besides preparing
her annual address, she will send out leaflets
and articles for the press, and will write
an editorial each week for the Union Signal,
the organ of the White Ribbon movement,


IN MEMORIAM.
	AT her residence, in Franklin, Oneida Co.
Idaho, Mrs.  Arabella Ann Chandler Parkinson,
departed this life at 10 o’clock p. m. August 9,
1894. Aged 70 years 5 months and 13 days.
	She was born Feb. 27, 1824 at Cheltenham.
Glostershire England. She embraced the Gospel
in her native place in 1842. She was the daugh-
ter of George Chandler and Esther Glover Chan-
dler. She left her native land for the Gospel’s
sake, arriving at St. Louis, Mo. 1851. Jan. 1st
1852 she was married to Samuel Rose Parkinson,
who survives her. In 1854 she with her husband
came to Utah, locating at Kaysville, Davis Co.,
remaining there six years. In 1860 she removed
to Franklin, where she passed away.
	She endured many hardships and privations
incident to settling in a new place. She was the
mother of nine children, eight of whom, four sons
and four daughters, survive her.
	Of her family it may truthfully be said, they are
noble, faithful sons and daughters, and her last
days were her best days, in seeing her posterity
walking in the ways of the Lord, aud striving to
serve Him. Among them is George C. Parkin-
son, President of the Oneida Stake of Zion.
But the mother love strong within her, recognized
that these children every one of them, were the
jewels that should shine in her crown forever-
more. She also leaves thirty one grandchildren,
and one great grand child. She was the last one
of her family of thirteen children, and the only
one of her father’s house to stand in holy places,
and be a savior on Mount Zion. She honored
all the institutions of God, living for many years
in the Patriarchal order of marriage. She cared
for the needy and sad of God’s children, honor-
ing the office of Presideut of the Relief Society
of Franklin.
	Her funeral was held in the Franklin Meeting
House, on Sunday August 12, 1894, under the
supervision of Bishop Hatch. It was largely
attended, not only from Franklin, but many of
the settlements where she was widely known and
respected.
	The services commenced by the choir singing
“Mourn not the dead.” Prayer by Thomas
Smart. Singing, “Sister thou wast mild and
lovely.”
	The first speaker was Counselor M. F. Cowley
of the Stake Presidency, who spoke words of
comfort to the bereaved, bearing testimony of her
many virtues, and noble life; also gave good in-
structions to the saints, and closed by saying she
had been faithful to the end, and was among
those whom the Apostle John saw, “They had
come up through great tribulations, having
washed their robes white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	Bishop Hatch followed, echoing the sentiments
of the first speaker, and added his blessing to the
husband and bereaved children. Elder William
Smart followed, bearing testimony of her so
gently passing away, saying that this was in ful
fillment of the prophecy, that the saints should
not taste of death. Elder Charles Hobbs said
he was numbered with her in the little branch in
Cheltenham. Told of the joy they had experi-
enced in bearing testimony of Jesus and the
truth of the Gospel.
	A quartette of male voices rendered “Shall
we meet beyond the river.”
	Elder Isaac Nash, read an original poem, com-
posed by himself for the occasion, also made
some comforting remarks. Counselor S. H
Hale of the Stake Presidency, also spoke words
of esteem and affection.
	The impressive services were closed by the
choir singing “O, my Father,” and the benedic-
tion by Dr. Parkinson of Logan.
	Many hundreds of her friends passed by the
beautiful white casket, laden with choice flowers,
and took their last farewell of the peaceful sleeper
therein.
	About seventy vehicles followed to the ceme-
tery, on the slope of a hill. Counselor S. H.
Hale, dedicated the spot for her rest, until the
trump of God shall sound, and the dead in the
Lord shall rise to life, immortality and eternal
lives.					COMMUNICATED.


[Column 1]
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
Address, 34 East Fifth South. Telephone 383.

[Column 2]
GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

Leave Salt Lake:
10:20 a. m.
2:00 p. m.
Arrive Salt Lake:
*4:00 p. m.
4:40 "
*Daily except Sunday.

Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.
S. H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Condert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the five above names]
D. E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, - Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K. THOMAS

SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
OBSTETRICS.

	THE winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15 AND OCTOBER 1, 1894.	NO. 6 AND 7.


CONTENTS:

	In Rural England. U. W. P. C—R. M. Fox.
How it Feels to be a Voter—Woman's Journal
A Pleasant Evening—L. J. A Reverie. Femi-
nine Hints. Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting—V.
Young Woman Suffrage Column. Pen Names
—E. B. W. The Household Economic Associa-
tion—Ellen A. Richardson. From The Woman's
Journal.
	EDITORIAL:—The Political Question. Edi-
torial Notes.
	POETRY:—Times Delight—Lucy. "I Guess I
Can."—Mrs. Emma Playter Seabury. Sing Me
A Song Today—Hyacinth. Eventide—E. B. W.
Parting—Selected.


TIME’S DELIGHT.

For The Exponeut:—
ALL through the chilly hours of winter
Through its gloom or bright sunshine,
Springtime’s budding, or bloom of summer,
Autumn’s golden fruits and grain 
I watch and wait, and vainly linger,
For some echo, token, sign,
From beyond time’s mystic line.

So time glides on, and will not delay
Morning, noon, and eventide,
In swift review pass along their way,
Nought unchanged can here abide.
Man’s golden youth is a summer’s day,
Merging into active noon,
That stretches over a toilsome way,
Down life’s hillside all too soon.

But we’ll strive life’s duties to obey,
Content to sing our low refrains,
Time’s flight no mortal e’er can stay,
O’er all the world it rules and reigns.
Tenafly N. Y. LUCY.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLII.

	AND Mr. Harrison sitting there beside
Mrs. Bland under the great pines in the
dense forest only a little distance from what
is now one of the largest cities in the East,
told her of his first love—when as many a
man before and since has, he loved des-
perately a woman older than himself. Like
the boy in Byron’s Dream.

“These two, a maiden and a youth, were there
Gazing—the one on all that was beneath
Fair as herself, but the boy gazed on her;
And both were young, and one was beautiful;
And both were young, yet not alike in youth.
As the sweet moon in the horizon’s verge,
The maid was on the eve of womanhood;
The boy had fewer summers, but his heart
Had far outgrown his years, and to his eye
There was but one beloved face on earth.
And that was shining on him; he had look’d
Upon it till it could not pass away;
He had no breath, no being, but in hers;
She was his voice, he did not speak to her,
But trembled on her words; she was his sight,
For his eye followed hers, and saw with hers,
Which color’d all his objects;—he had ceased
To live within himself; she was his life,
The ocean to the river of his thoughts,
Which terminated all; upon a tone,
A touch of hers, his blood would ebb and flow,
And his cheek change tempestuously—his heart
Unknowing of its cause of agony.
But she in these fond feelings had no share:
Her sighs were not for him, to her he was
Even as a brother—but no more; ’twas much,
For brotherless she was, save in the name
Her infant friendship had bestow’d on him;
Herself the solitary scion left
Of a time-honor’d race.”

	This was almost literally true in the case
of Robert Harrison. He confessed to Mrs.
Bland that he had no assurance of the love
of Clarice Courtney he had loved her as an
object enshrined, too good and pure to be
like other mortals, and when Sir Edward
Hilliard was accepted by her, he had
stormed and raged like one bereft of reason
and nearly broken his mother’s heart.
Afterwards they went abroad and there in
a foreign land his mother died; these two
great sorrows had so embittered his life
that, he had never really cared to mark out
any future, and no woman had ever
awakened an emotion of love in him from
that time until he saw his cousin’s daugh-
ter in the ball room in London, and it took
him back to the days of his boyhood. He

[Column 2]
recounted to Mrs. Bland many incidents of
his early life, but in it all she could not
discern in the least any return of his un-
bounded affection from the cousin whom
he so passionately adored, recompense for
the supreme affection he lavished upon her,
it was the ideal fancy of a boy for a mature
woman; yet she did not express her feel-
ings lest it might wound him, she waited
to see what he would say to her.
	“And now my story is told I have laid
bare my heart to you concealing nothing,”
said he. “What have you to say to me.”
You know, “for quickly comes such know-
ledge,” that I loved you from the first with
a devotion founded upon principle, I saw
your superiority to other women, even to
Lady Anna, I noted your strength of
character, your integrity to the family of
your kinsman, I heard you spoken of too, by
men, men of rank in the world, during that
London season, men who look below the
surface of things; and again and again your
uncle’s solicitors in London eminent barris-
ters, when Clair was with me and we were
arranging his affairs declared they had
never seen a girl like that Miss Conway—
such capacity, such judgment, such execu-
tive ability, they were astonished that you
had not been left equal in the will with his
own daughter. You have the Hilliard
character inherited from your mother, and
though I hated Sir Edward for carrying off
my cousin, yet from what I know of Eng-
lish history I am forced to acknowledge that
with all his faults, he had good blood in his
veins, the best blood of British lions: and I
forgive him now after all these years of
bitterness, and regret my estrangement
from the family, and most of all because
perhaps I might have saved from such a
fate my sweet cousin Anna, her mother’s
sacrifice and then hers, I cannot understand
it.”
	Mrs. Bland had listened to her lover (for
such he really was) while he told the story
she so longed yet dreaded to hear, and now
what answer must she give; she was al-
ready his in fact, if her own heart was the
criterion, she believed his love was honest,
she felt how lonely her life would be if she
should send him away; his arm encircled
her waist, her hand was clasped with tender
manliness, and he repeated the question so
often asked before, “And what have you
to say to me, will you be mine, my wife,
mine forever, to love, to cherish, to protect!”
And still Jane Bland hesitated, “What
more can I say, the devotion of my life,
what still remains, I know I am many
years your senior, but here in this new land,
I will begin a new career, I feel fresh im-
pulses for action, a great future awaits the
people who have settled here, they will
throw off the bondage of the mother coun-
try which oppresses them, there are men
ready to stand on a higher platform, you,
yourself know it, Sidney who has mingled
so much with the common people is aware
that, the sentiment of the country is under-
going a change, it will be a struggle, but it
will end in victory, it will give men of
brains, men of nerve an impetus unheard
of, will you share your fate with mine


[Column 1]
Shall we be united soon, it may be done
quietly, you feel perhaps this is too soon
after what has transpired, believe me Mrs.
Bland I have the utmost respect for the
dead, for Doctor Bland, and for his memory
—you shall never have reason to doubt it,
but I am anxious, I have waited long for
this, something seemed to tell me when I
first met you in London, that you would
yet be mine. Clair knows the feelings I
expressed when we were away together,
I dreaded to hear from home, that was why
you so seldom heard from us; but it was
necessary that Clair should come home,
matters of importance required his attention,
and I came to see my cousin, and she is
gone, but you are here and you are free,
if you refuse me now, I cannot stay here I
shall take Sidney and go away I know not
where, he needs the change, but Jane
Bland you will not refuse to take me now
as I am for better or for worse.”
	Jane Bland promised to consider, which
to say the least was decidedly philosophical
for a woman who was actually in love, but
it was in keeping with her whole life. Mr.
Harrison felt assured from her manner that
he was to be accepted and let the matter
pass; in his heart he commended her course,
for she had Conway’s future to think of
which was more to her than her own life.
	Some days went by full of pleasant in-
tercourse, long rambles, and drives, the
weather was fine, and out-door companion-
ship suited well the mood of love-making.
During one of these excursions, Mrs. Bland
inadvertently admitted to Mr. Barrington
that her future would be a blank unless
associated in some way with his uncle.
Sidney lost no time in repeating it, and the
matter was soon settled. Meantime Con-
way had become so endeared to Mr. Harri-
son that he was like his own son, and he
seemed to take the matter for granted. The
parties were so independently situated that
the matter was in their own hands, and Sid-
ney Barrington performed the marriage cere-
mony in the primitive little meeting house
where he had preached from the time of
settling in the colony. Only the few people
who had known them best were present
and there was no gaiety or wedding festivi-
ities whatever. A quiet winter followed,
and during the time letters had been inter-
changed by them with Clair and Maitland,
and as early as the weather would admit
the party set sail for England, to transact
some necessary business and to see Anna’s
children. Lady Walton was very desirous
of seeing Mrs. Harrison, and all things
considered it was a great satisfaction to
Mrs. H. herself, to visit Hilliard Castle and
take with her the little son, who had been
born on the estate. There were many
pleasant things connected with this visit to
her beautiful English home—many mem-
ories recalled, and visions of the past
awakened, that were sweet but sad. Some-
times she trembled lest the happiness she
experienced in being the wife of one she
loved so intensely should be only transient.
	Lady Walton had once reminded her how
passionately her husband had in his youth
loved Lady Hilliard, and added ‘‘it drove
him almost distracted when she married
Sir Edward, and to think after that he
could ever be in love, and with some one
so unlike I can scarcely credit my senses
when I see him with you, indeed it is
paralyzing, but he is a charming friend,
and so clever and brilliant, and withal his
eccentricities so fond of children. And Mr.
Barrington how I should like to hear him

[Column 2]
preach here, as he did in the colony, so
earnest, so reverent, I begin to feel the
need of some religious consolation.”
	“And why then do you not try to look
into the Scriptures and comprehend the say-
ings of the Savior, there is comfort and
strength in his words. Mr. Barrington
would help you if you would listen, he
would teach you, and you would find peace,
abiding peace.”
	“It is too late for me to accept a new
faith, I must still cling to my own, though
I do like the simple way these dissenters
have of feeding the people the word of life
and salvation.”
	After much more conversation about re-
ligion Lady Walton surprised Mrs. Harri-
son by saying she was sure her days were
numbered, and she begged her to obtain
Maitland’s consent to take the children
back to America, where they might have
the simple home training she knew Mrs.
Harrison would give them. It was exactly
what Jane Harrison was wishing and long-
ing for, and when she talked it over with
her husband, he began interceding almost
immediately, and Maitland needed very
little persuading.
	Mrs. Harrison had been much at the
castle but she had also been in Devonshire
to see the old home of her husband who
took much delight in showing Sidney as
well as his wife over the places he had
been familiar with in his boyhood and in
early manhood ere his life had been soured
by melancholy. Only a few remained of
those he remembered though many there
were who knew him and were glad to see
him among them again and urged him to
remain, but no inducement could be offered
that would have tempted either of the
three to settle down in England after hav-
ing lived only for so short a period in the
“new world,” and yet for the time being
the green fields the beautiful parks, the
verdant meadows, the luxuriant hedges,
the grand old oaks, had a charm that awaken-
ed emotions that touched the tenderest
chords of affection for their native land.
	After having spent the lovely summer
reveling in the beauties of the country,
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison began preparations
for their return, Clair Hilliard was to go
with them on a visit, and the children Ed-
ward and Anna Walton were to be com-
mitted to their care for a time; no definite
compact was made; Maitland assured Mrs.
Harrison he would come for them soon, be-
fore they had forgotten him. Edward was
a fine stalwart fellow and little Anna was
beautiful as a dream.
	Lady Walton was really much affected
when the time came for parting with them
and affirmed over and over again that she
should never see them more; her whole
manner of life was changed she had become
deeply religious and though she still clung
to her own established church yet she en-
joyed much more the simple faith of Sid-
ney Barrington.
	Mrs. Harrison’s leave-taking of the old
castle, (though there had been all sorts of
repairs and many changes made) was al-
most as sorrowful as on first leaving it to
embark for America. She went over and
through it with the children describing the
rooms and relating what had transpired of
interest to them, trying to impress upon
them the grandeur and significance of the
ancestral home of their mother and grand-
parents. There was a great change in the
surroundings even more than in the house
itself, for Clair had brought home with

[Column 3]
him ideas of other countries in the style
and material of furnishings, and poor old
Mrs. Burke who was very loyal to all that
was English, and hated foreigners, though
she loved Clair in spite of his gipsy blood,
as she called it, could not help expressing
herself emphatically to Mistress Jane
Harrison, (she persisted in using her given
name) “these new fangled wicker bamboo
things such trumpery, nothing solid or sub-
stantial about them cheap finery, the master
says they’re expensive luxuries, I hate to
see them, give me oak and mahogany that
look elegant instead of these, and such
showy curtains and hangings, drapery in-
deed yellow and red, whoever heard of it
in England, a lot of fal-de-rols, but he can’t
help it poor fellow it all comes of his
Italian blood, its sure to crop out, but his
voice, it makes up for everything, and such
a sweet temper, strange too, more like a
woman,” and Mrs. Burke after this long
harangue looked at Mrs. Harrison as much
as to say, and what have you to say in his
defence, but his cousin only quietly looked
Mrs. Burke full in the face and said, “your
master is in every way worthy his title, and
if he chooses to gratify his own taste in
and about the place there is no one to say
him nay.”


"I GUESS I CAN.”

	BY MRS. EMMA PLAYTER SEABURY.

SHE washed the dishes, and made the bed,
And patiently got on her knees to scrub;
In winter she milked the cows in the shed,
In summer bent o’er the steaming tub;
She made the garden, and swept and baked.
And cooked for boarders, and raked the hay,
And never complained that her poor head ached,
Or John was almost always away.
When they asked her if she would like to vote,
She said with a sigh and a look remote,
"I have done more work than my old man,
If I have the time, why, I guess I can."

She rocked the cradle the while she churned,
She kept the children so clean and neat,
And most of the living her poor hands earned,
While John talked politics in the street.
When any were sick, the watch she kept, 
She gathered the little ones Sabbath day,
And walked two miles to the church alway.
She mended and sewed while her husband slept,
She taught the children each day a spell;
When they asked if she favored the suffrage plan, 
She timidly glanced at her husband—"well,
If John is willing, I guess I can."

And so she drudged, and she baked and brewed,
And toiled from dawn to the midnight hour.


John drank, and gossiped, and spat and chewed,
And talked and grumbled, of “woman’s sphere.”
And her children grew into stalwart men,
Brave and helpful, and by her side;
She knew she made them, and once again,
When they asked the question, she said with pride,
“There’s a hundred-dollar woman sometimes
Yoked to a small ten-dollarman.
I’m sure it isn’t one of the crimes
To vote against him. I guess I can.”
	Montecito, Cal. THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held in Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp’s parlor Aug. 31st, 1894,
President Shipp in the chair. Prayer by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder. The Secretary being
absent Ruth M. Fox was elected Sec. pro
tem. Roll responded to by sentiments
from Bryant; Minnie J. Snow and Melise
Wilson were accepted as members. A very
pathetic original poem was read by Nellie
C. Taylor. An interesting and instructive
paper on heredity was then read by Dr. E
R. Shipp followed by a very able address on
the same subject by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson
C. Louise Boydon favored the club with a
choice selection on the piano and Mary A.
Freeze read one of her own poems, after
which a motion was made and carried that
we devote twenty five minutes next meet-
ing to the discussion of heredity. E. B.
Wells then gave us an entertaining and
much appreciated paper on Pen Names.
The same lady read current events, Miss
Patterson not being present. A letter was
read from Nevada V. Davis a member, who
is now in the East, engaged on the New
York Herald. It was then moved and car-
ried that five ladies viz. Mesdames E. B.
Wells, Minnie J. Snow. Phebe C. Young,
Lydia D. Alder and Eliza Bennion, prepare
themselves for the discussion next meeting.
Syntithia Dickinson suggested that another
time we discuss the subjects the same even-
ing they are given. The program for next
meeting was read as follows, Discussion on
Heredity. Indian traditions, Syntithia
Dickinson. Poem Ruth M. Fox. Reci-
tation Ellis Shipp. Sentiments from
Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Dismissed by
Minnie J. Snow. Refreshments and the
usual good time followed.
				R. M. FOX, Sec. pro tem.


MISS ANNE WHITNEY, the sculptor, has
completed a bust of Keats in marble, which
is to be placed in the parish church of
Hampstead, London, as a memorial from
the American and English lovers of the
poet. The bust is pronounced a triumph of
artistic genius.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A PLEASANT EVENING.

Editor Exponent:
	AN informal reception was tendered last
night to our visiting sisters, Aunt Zina, as
we love to call her, and Sister E. B. Wells,
at the residence of W. G. Bickley. The
genial Professor and his worthy wife went
around and invited all the officers of the
Relief Society and some others to meet
these honored ladies at his house.
	About twenty-five people came together
and the evening passed very pleasantly
with songs, music, recitations and old time
reminiscences. Professor Bickley favored
the company with instrumental music, also
a song. Mrs. C. D. White gave, in good
style, a recitation entitled, “Hannah Jane
and I.” Another song from Brother Bickley
was followed by the stirring recitation of
“The Battle of Bunker Hill" by Mrs. Mary
E. Carter. Uncle Daniel Tyler sang, “The
Mobbers of Missouri,” after which Mrs.
Mary E. Lightner gave a thrilling recital of
some of the scenes she had passed through
during the persecutions of the Saints in
Missouri. One of these incidents occured
during the destruction of the Printing
Office in Independence Mo. She and her
sister seized each an armful of manuscript
revelations and ran and hid themselves in a
cornfield with the mob close at their heels
swearing they would shoot them. The two
girls escaped, however, with their prize and
afterward the rescued Mss. were
printed in book form one of which was
presented to Sister Lightner. Sister Wells,
in her bright, entertaining manner, related
incidents of her sojourn in Chicago, during
the World’s Fair. Also gave interesting
items of the different Congresses held at
that time. The trend of all these Con-
gresses was in favor of equality of the sexes.
	Aunt Zina talked in her loving motherly
way, showing that all the benefits we had
received from our showing at the World’s
Fair, came by the blessing of God and
through our organization of the Relief
Society.
	Brother Bickley sang a comic song. Mrs
L. Jones recited a short piece entitled.
“Linger not.” All sang that matchless
hymn, “O, My Father,” and after benedic-
tion, dispersed to their homes feeling that
they had indeed enjoyed a “feast of reason
and a flow of soul.” L. J.
	Beaver, Sep. 15, 1894.


HOW IT FEELS TO BE A VOTER.

	TWO women were judges of election in
one precinct, and one in another. One
daily paper mentioned the fact and the ladies
names, and said, “they took their knitting
with them and had a real good time.” I
will mention an incident and leave you to
judge whether or not our women are going
to take the trouble to vote. A lady, “one
of our fellow-citizens,” but neither young
nor active, presented herself at the polls to
vote and was informed that it was necessary
in the case that she should produce a tax
receipt for the year 1893, before she could
vote. She said the receipt was in her hus-
band’s possession, and he was not at home.
The judges told her she could have a dupli-
cate receipt if she would go to the Court
House for it. The Court house was nearly
three miles away, but she wanted very
much to vote, so she prepared to go down,
and got on a street car, but after riding
some distance, remembered she had not the
numbers of her lots. She got off and went
home, secured them and started again, ar-
riving at the Court House she had a dupli-
cate receipt furnished her, after explanations
and some delay. She reached home just in
time to attend a W. C. T. U. meeting, of
which she is an officer, and when it was
over, she went a second time to the polls
and accomplished her purpose to vote.
	A wealthy and prominent citizen of this
community who boasted on November 7th
last, that he had voted “A great big No” to
the proposition to enfranchise the women
of Colorado, caused a few of us to rub our
eyes and wonder if we saw aright, when
he appeared with his wife and daughter at
the Republican primaries, where all stood
in line, waiting to deposit their ballots,
which they did with as much ease and satis-
faction, apparently, as did your correspond-


ent whose heart and soul have been in this
cause for twenty years or more. For the
benefit of those who may desire to know
how it feels to be a citizen after being
classed with the “silent seven,” I give my
own experience, and curiously enough I
have been assured by several other women
that theirs was much the same. As soon as
it was known beyond a doubt that the
rights and duties of citzenship were for-
ever secured to the women of our State, so
many feelings took possession of me that I
could not sleep; feelings of rejoicing, of
gratitude, of sorrow for the brave life that
had gone out a little too soon, thoughts of
what this victory meant to the cause every-
where, and its effect upon our children’s
lives and all who shall come after us, but
over and above all was a feeling of not
exultation but exaltation, something indes-
cribable, never before experienced, and
probably never to be again by me.—Wo-
man's Tribune.


[Column 1]
			EVENTIDE.
	It was in the summer gloaming,
	The soft, sweet, purple gloaming,
When the paler rays of sunset blended with the
	shadows gray,
And the fragrance of the flowers was heavy in
	the air,
And the silver threads of twilight whiten’d all
	along the way,
Till a ghost-like stillness stole over all the
	landscape fair,
		That we wandered in the garden,
		The grand, old-fashioned garden.

		Ah, ’twas in the subtle gloaming,
		The weird, entrancing gloaming,
When the shadows deepen’d darker,and the stars
	began to shine.
And one felt the heart of nature in its gentlest,
	tend’rest hour,
That we pledg’d our troth together where the
	roses intertwine;
And we reveled in the realms of fancy’s potent
	power.
		While we sauntered in the garden,
		The dear, old, homely garden,
		
		What was whispered in the gloaming,
		The dim, uncertain gloaming,
In that murmur’d undertone that falls so softly on
	the ear,
While it swept along the rose-trees like the 
	flutter of a wing,
Ling’ring down among the grasses as a presence
	ever near.
Left a charm for years to come like a precious,
	living thing;
		Aye, for years ’twas in the garden.
		The rude, neglected garden.

		Oft at even in the gloaming,
		The vague and solemn gloaming,
Have I listen’d for the echo of that whisper ’mid
	the flow’rs;
Rich and mellow were the tones, like music,
	soft and low;
And my happy heart made answer in those
	dreamy, summer hours,
As we vow’d to love each other, in that far-off,
	long ago.
		In the shadowy old garden,
		The dear, enchanted garden.

[Column 2]
		And still the purple gloaming,
		The fair, deceitful gloaming,
Comes forever with the summer, just the same at
	eventide,
With the memories, that haunt me of the
	beautiful and bright,
And the glory of the hours that will evermore
	abide
In the soul of one that waits through the dark
	and stormy night.
		For that promise in the garden,
		The dear, old fashion’d garden. 

		It is sweeter in the gloaming,
		The calm and tranquil gloaming,
To recall the happy mem’ries that around our
	hearts entwine;
While we are young and ardent, the future
	seems so bright;
We could not dream that sorrow would shatter
	love’s fair shrine,
Or that darkness, sad and dreary, could follow
	its delight.
		When we lingered in the garden,
		The balmy, fragrant garden.

		But tho’ in the summer gloaming,
		The strange, fantastic gloaming,
We only see faint shadows in a dim, unreal way
Or waken old-time echoes as from a far-off
	shore;
Yet we know to those who’re faithful there will
	dawn a roseate day,
A glorious to-morrow, that will last for ever-
	more;
		In that fair, Elysian garden,
		The first, primeval garden.
								E. B. W.


SING ME A SONG TODAY.

COME sing me a song today,
	One that you only can sing,
A sweet melodious lay,
	That once happy past to bring.
Trill forth those memories dear,
	Visions that mocked us of yore,
Seem now to linger anear,
	As in the days gone before.

O, sing me a song today,
	In tones that are sweet and soft,
One that your heart fain would say,
	The song that is heard so oft. 
Of love that is true and strong,
	That grows with the lapse of time,
Nor fades though the years are long,
	The love that is all sublime.

Come sing me a song to day,
	Of days that are yet to come,
Replete with every ray,
	That sorrow will overcome,
Oh, sing me a song, sweet song,
	To chase away this dull gloom,
'Twill shorten the hours so long,
	And all the future illume.
					HYACINTH.
July, 1, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.oo; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1894.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE poem in our Last issue entitled,
“In Loving Remembrance,” should have
been “In Loving Remembrance of Sister
Arabella Chandler Parkinson.”

	At the first election under the Equal
Suffrage held in Colorado it was demon-
strated that the lower the elements in
Society the less interest was taken in the
ballot, and vice versa.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
in this city on Thursday, October 4th,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. at 2 p. m.
and and half-past seven in the evening.
	The Presidents of the Relief Society of
all the several Stakes of Zion are requested
to attend or send an official representative
to report, and all officers and members are
expected to be present at the Conference.
Presiding authorities in the several Stakes
and bishops and brethren interested in the
work and advancement of the society are
cordially invited to attend the meetings.
By order of the President Zina D. H.
Young.


THE POLITICAL QUESTION. 

	THE Delegates from two great political
parties have assembled in Convention and
formulated their platforms or adopted
resolutions and have declared in favor of
equal rights irrespective of sex. This is
certainly a step in the right direction and
will be a great credit to Utah, and is indeed
an act of justice which must recommend
itself to all fair-minded people. ‘‘So far
so good,” as a party both Republicans and
Democrats have done what they could, and
it remains now for the people to elect such
delegates to the Constitutional Convention
as will carry out the principles of justice
and equality. It will ever be a matter of
congratulation if the new Constitution
shall be so near perfect that it will not re-
quire amendments during the first Legisla-
tures that will meet.
	The two platforms are before the people
and certainly both parties have been honor-
able in declaring their principles and the
people both men and women can judge for
themselves of the facts as presented in the
Resolutions adopted. They are so clear
and well-defined that one can scarcely plead
ignorance in regard to points of difference
between the two parties. All these things
are educational and certainly the women of
the Territory will take an interest in the
study of the political question, and be care-
ful to note the distinctive differences that
are so apparent when one looks into the
subject deeply.
	The great fundamental principles of
government, however, should be carefully
studied and those who anticipate having
the franchise should arm themselves well
with this knowledge and not come ignorant-
ly into possession of the boon, so ardently
desired and so eagerly sought for. There
will be many important and serious
questions to be discussed that concern wo-
men as well as men; and perhaps the first
great subject to which the attention of wo-
men will be called will be that of education,
and study beforehand will be a great ad-
vantage. In the Associations throughout
the Territory this matter should be con-
sidered, and acted upon so that correct in-
formation may be obtained. There are
some departments of public interest relating
to a great commonwealth which come
more directly in the line of woman’s
province than others. Education, public
charities and such institutions as relate
more or less there to, sanitation and public
health, moral and other great reforms, etc.

[Column 2] 
Women have thought much upon these
matters but heretofore they have had small
opportunity to use any but silent influence.
If perchance Utah comes into the union of
states with equal suffrage as now seems so
likely to transpire, (and the woman of the
Territory should certainly work on the af-
firmative) they should make every exertion
to qualify themselves to be useful and
active in the exercise of every right and
privilege with which statehood will invest
them. Meantime they should not sleep,
but be awake to the grave issues and
emergences of the time and avail them-
selves of every opportunity to exert an in-
fluence in the direction of positive good, in
the interest of all that relates to the future
welfare, and betterment of the condition of
the people, who are to be the happy posses-
sors of the greater freedom, that comes
with increased responsibility and an exten-
sion of privileges.


A REVERIE.

	AUTUMN:—Named by the poets as the
melancholy season and ever thought of as
the saddest, because the winds at night
sing their mournful songs and as they mur-
mur through the forests and the glens, they
blow the crimson and golden leaves to the
earth below them, and the song of the
autumn wind, and the rustle of the dying
leaves fill the soul with longings that no
other season brings. In the sweet gloom
of the September days the heart is full, not
so much of hope for the coming days as
memories, sweet memories of the past.
How thick and fast they crowd upon one,
the joys, the sorrows, the laughter, the
tears all intertwine into one sweet memory
chain. The rivers are clearer and more
sparkling; the mountains gleam with the
glorious tints that the early frost and the
heavy dews impart to the foliage of the
maple and the oak, mingled with the deeper
greens of the graceful pines; the great sun
casts shadows and flames through the
evening mist imparting the deepest purples
to the eastern hills, the ruddiest and brightest
golds and crimsons to the western skies and
all combined fill the soul with rapture,
poetry and love.


FLOWERS:—How few they are and yet
how beautiful as one traverses the rich and
well kept garden and notes with a sigh the
fading leaves of the rose, the carnation and
the pansy, she may also smile at the tender,
sweet elysium that has remained so true
through the long summer and still blossoms
and sends forth its fragrance with the
autumn winds; at the pretty aster with its
many colored blossoms, at the red and white
and purple berries nestling among the
glorious leaves of the honey-suckle and
wood-bine; at the stately dahlia in its rich
deep colors presiding like a queen over the
Autumn garden at the beautiful
crysanthemum, with her large lovely blos-
soms, cheering and comforting and atoning
for summer’s flowers lost.
	MUSIC:—A man once said that nature
had given less to music than any of the
arts. I wonder if he ever wandered
through a forest in the autumn time when
the leaves whispered their good-byes as
they swung and swayed through the mel-
low air in their falling to the ground; if he
ever heard the birds as they bade farewell
to their summer nests and flocking together
by the hundreds gave their glorious final
chorus before migrating to the south. If
he ever heard the soughing wind through
the leafless branches murmuring its
œolian tones. Why the world is full of
music in the autumn, nature’s world at
least, yes music, poetry and art, whose is
the soul that does not throb the quicker,
the heart that does not beat the faster, the
mind that does not think the deeper, in the
rich and glorious Autumn time.


FEMININE HINTS.

	THE house wife has been employed all
the summer long with her arduous but
satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the
winter months and now with what a
pleasure she points to her shelves filled with
bottles of fresh berries and fruits her jars of
rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious
jelly, perhaps though it is not yet too late
to publish a receipt for a catsup very highly
praised and pickles very sweet to taste.
	TOMATO CATSUP:—Take one bushel or
six pounds of nice ripe tomatoes, boil and
strain through a sieve. Take two quarts
of good vinegar, two ounces of allspice,
two ounces of blackpepper, two ounces of
mustard, one ounce of cloves one ounce of
cinnamon two grated nut megs, two pounds
of sugar and one pint of salt, mix all well
together and turn into the tomato juice,
let the whole boil four or five hours or un-
til it becomes thick, then pour in bottles or
jars and tightly cork.
	SWEET-PICKLE PEACHES:—Eight pounds
of fruit, four pounds of sugar one pint of
vinegar one ounce each of allspice, cloves
and cinnamon. Scald the syrup, peel the
peaches and drop in scalding syrup, boil
until soft enough to push a straw through
them, then take out and place in jar, allow
to cool when the boiling syrup is poured
over them, tie the spices in clean white bags
and boil all the time with syrup, stick three
or four cloves in each peach. Every other
day for the first week boil the syrup for
half an hour and pour back hot over the
fruit, then tie down securely with a cloth
wet in brandy over the top of the fruit.
	DRESS:—The colors though subdued
were never richer than this fall and the
bright autumn tints interwoven in a ground
of black, seal brown, dark gray, navy blue,


or some deep color give a very rich effect.
Whether the country generally is benefitted
or not the woman with a meager purse will
be delighted to know that she can buy her
a lovely winter gown for half the price she
paid last year, and her silks and woolens
will all be much cheaper. The becoming
and comfortable suit so much in vogue dur-
ing the summer still holds its own for fall
and winter wear, the round skirt the blouse
or shirt waist and the over jacket, only the
waist is made of darker and warmer
material. Probably this is due to the fancy
the feminine heart has always held for the
belt with its pretty buckles. These, the
buckles are as fashionable as ever only as
the season advances, the buckle becomes
larger and the designs are quite elaborate.
Coral and amber buckles are also mnch
worn and it is said that amber will soon re-
place the ivory, silver and porcelain for
ladies toilet articles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LADIES’ MEETING.
Minutes of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Aug.
11th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Wel-
come best of all good meetings,” etc.
Prayer Sister Wilcox. Continued singing,
“For the strength of the hills” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne said, “I believe it is cus-
tomary, if there is business to present, to
attend to that before proceeding with the
meeting. We desire to have our excursion
well advertised, we consider it a good and
worthy cause and think it should be well
patronized. Officers will please come for-
ward and take tickets. I have been in-
formed that there is a falling off in the num-
ber of Sisters who should be in attendance
at the Temple Saturday, this should not be,
sisters please take notice and be on hand
that there may be plenty of help. We
must work unitedly or we will be found in
the same position that the people of Babylon
were. We must be making a move toward
storing up wheat, grain will probably be
cheap this fall. We must take the warn-
ing given.”
	Sister Zina, “My dear sisters I greet all
most heartily, consider all hands shaken.
I have been absent from you for some time
but am always with you in spirit. Would
have been here sooner, but for the strike.
On arriving in Canada, found Brother
Dougall very ill. Thanks to our Heavenly
Father, through our faith and prayers in
his behalf, he has been restored to health,
the children of the Primary prayed for him,
their prayers were answered almost im-
mediately. Dominion day in Canada is al-
most the same as our fourth of July, I
heard a Senator there say, that our people
had accomplished more in three years, than
any others had in a much longer time.
The sisters meetings in Alberta and Moun-
tain View, were well attended, the saints
are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I
never attended better meetings in my life.
On one occasion my daughter said she felt
like giving the Bishop’s wife a blessing,
she spoke in tongues and gave her the very
blessing she had desired. The Young
Ladies have excellent meetings; at the
Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter
and with the exception of a little piece of
velvet, it was entirely home made; they
have made many articles of clothing; our
people held their first conference while we

[Column 2]
were there, at the last meeting of the Young
Ladies that I attended, they requested me
to address them, some of them greatly
desired to hear me speak in tongues having
never heard the gift. At the close of the
meeting I was called upon to dismiss, I
then spoke in tongues, I heard after that
girls had fasted and prayed, that I might
speak to them in tongues, their prayers
were answered, it was a testimony to them,
that the Lord does hear and answer prayers;
I am very much interested in this home in-
dustry movement; if I had means I would
send for a knitting machine and teach a
class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is
well pleased with the labors of his hand-
maids, may the Lord add his blessing.”
	Sister Susan Grant “I am pleased to have
our stake join with you in this enterprise,
we can all see how much better it would
have been for us if we had taken the coun-
sel given years ago, but it is never to late to
mend, though late the Lord will accept of
our work. I think it would be well to
have notices sent to the Bishops, regarding
the store I don’t believe they fully under-
stand the motives of this enterprise; we
should be alive to the importance of our
work “The harvest is ripe and the reapers
are few.” We should place our whole de-
pendence on the Lord. When troubles
come we can call on Him for help, if we
are living as he desires us. Am glad to
hear of the blessing of faith being poured
out upon the saints in far off Canada, I
pray the Lord may bless all interested in
this work where ever they may be.’
	Sister Lula Greene Richards, “I am
sure all are delighted with the report of the
saints in Canada, they are filled with the
same spirit, enjoyed in the Temple here.
Brother Woodruff said the whole world
would be diffused with it, we all should try
to think of something to further the cause;
not be as the slothful servant that has to be
called. I shall, try to awaken an interest in
our Ward, we should follow the examples
of our mothers, think how they worked, if
we were as persevering we could accomplish
much more having greater facilities than
they had. I pray we may all be faithful
that we may secure our crowns.”
	Sister C. C. R. Wells, “I realize the set
time has come to favor our store. I knew
all the time the Lord had inspired the
movement, any sister that can make articles
of clothing send us samples of work, if
creditable have them in the store, take
stock by the sale of them, its only a ques-
tion of time when people will be compelled
to buy these things. Look and see what is
called for, make those articles. Some make
nice little hoods and shoes, bring them to
us, we want to prepare to help the poor,
that may come to us. We want to invite
people to come and see us, when stocked
with home-made articles, we can’t expect
to do anything without some labor, we hear
so much about hard times; if no other train
should ever come into Salt Lake, we are
still much better off than the Pioneers, they
studied, made over and thought of every
possible way to get along, let us all try and
think of something we can do to help in
the good work, etc.”
	Sister Margaret Caine, “It is impossible
for me to express my feelings of thankful-
ness and gratitude, I throughly ap-
preciate being again in the midst of friends,
I trust all my labors while absent have
not been in vain, many whom I have met
are very much interested in us, and desire
to investigate, people begin to see how use-

[Column 3]
less money is unless invested in benefiting
others; barriers are being broken down, it
is the Lord’s will that we build each other
up, my feelings have ever been in favor of
home manufactures. Always in my house-
keeping, I made it a point to use home-made
articles when able to get them. Let us ex-
port as well as import. I have disposed of
several thousand copies of the EXPONENT.
Have had the greatest compliments paid it.
One gentleman, who was a tourist and a
traveler, said he had never read a paper
where such pure thoughts and principles
were written. It has been published longer
than any othe lradies paper in the West; if
we can afford to take more than one for our-
selves, do so and send it to others. At one
time there was quite a large branch of our
Church in California, there are now only
about twenty-five or thirty members,”
made other good remarks.
	Sister Lucy B. Young was happy to hear
the remarks made by the sisters, was one
with them, said she was happy in early days
didn’t call it hard times, one would feel proud
to wear homemade all the time, the sisters
from the Sandwich Islands make beautiful
hats, it would be a good idea to get them to
take hold of the straw work”
President Horne in closing said she be-
lieved the spirit of building up home in-
stitutions was increasing. All seemed
more interested than usual, hoped they
would continue, and the Lord would bless
their efforts. Sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion Sister E. S. Taylor.
	V. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	THE Republican State Convention of
Idaho adopted without a dissenting vote
the following resolutions:
	“We favor submission of an equal suffrage
amendment to the constitution, to a vote of
the people, by the next Legislature.”
	If this carries it will go to a vote of the
electors in 1896.—Ex.

SALT LAKE W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. Meeting, held Tues-
day Aug. 21st, in the 14th, Ward Hall.
Third Vice President Julia Druce in the
chair. Song, “Do what is right.” Prayer
by Mary A. Freeze. Song, “Know this
that every soul is free.” Roll called,
minutes for July read and approved. Read-
ing, by Lousie Badger, entitled, “A good
conscience.” Reading by Martha Greames
entitled, “Keeping up with the children.”
President Elizabeth MacFarlane read a piece
from the Salt Lake Herald on the Constitu-
tion. C. C. R. Wells made some very in-
teresting remarks on suffrage for women.
Ruth M. Fox made a short speech on the
same subject. Mary A. Freeze thought
when the time comes for us to vote, we
shall know who to vote for, referred to
what Hon. John E. Booth said at the re
union at Saltair, that women should de-
mand their rights. Adjourned till Sep-
tember.
M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

Editor Exponent:—
	BY the request of our Local President,
Mrs. Jane Snyder, I submit a few items for
the columns of the Exponent in reference
to the grand Republican Convention held
in this city on the eleventh inst.
	The ladies of the W. S. A, were


[Column 1]
courteously granted tickets to the balcony
of the Opera House which was profusely
decorated with flowers and evergreens and
banners with appropriate mottoes adorned
the building.
	The call of the convention and other
rules and preliminaries were attentively
listened to by the visiting ladies.
	At the afternoon session many ladies
were in attendance and the Provo and
Salt Lake City Glee Clubs rendered some
very witty songs in an artistic style and the
music by the bands was very exhilarating
and like the Glee Clubs were cheered to
the encore, and when Mr. Arthur L.
Thomas read in the resolutions that Equal
Suffrage be granted to women, the ladies
enthusiastically waved their handkerchiefs
and gentlemen cheered and waved their
hats in an inspiring manner. May success
attend the cause and all others which tend
to the good of humanity.
M. A. TILL.
Provo City, Sep. 12th, 1894.

EQUAL RIGHTS.
	ONCE more this important subject pre-
sents itself before us. This question has
received great attention of late, and now
that fair Utah is just entering statehood,
let us be sure that she does not leave her
women behind.
	History tells us that in many cases, wo-
man has been regarded as inferior to man.
Why should this be? Are we not all God’s
children? We learn from the Bible that
God created woman to be a help-meet for
man; and does it look reasonable to think,
that He would create her an inferior being?
It is more likely that He would make an
improvement on His labors, rather than not
the equal. But of course, we do not claim
to be any better than they, but equally as
good. We do not wish to overstep our
bounds in the least, but desire to become
only that which God designed us to be.
We only ask for a voice in that which con-
cerns us and claim the right of political
as well as religious freedom.
	Who could call the law a just one, that
entitles one half of the community to en-
joy privileges that the other half cannot?
	We all admit that man stands at the head
and woman should not rule over him,
neither should he trample her under his
feet. In one of our American cities, a
short time ago, an address had been de-
livered one evening, by one of the well
versed women of the place one of the
listeners, a gentleman on his return home
was met by a friend who said, “Who was
your speaker to-night?” He replied in a
sneering tone, “only a woman,” while at
the same time we might ask, “what is his
mother?” and “what is his wife?” This
with many instances proves how lightly the
abilities of woman are spoken of at times.
If the franchise was restored, what true wo-
man would cast her vote in favor of a
dealer in the demon—Alcohol? In many
cases we find her tied to a drunkard, who
staggers to the Polls to vote, while she (no
matter how intelligent she may be) is com-
pelled to stay at home. Is this right? No,
there is no justice about it, for those who
are ruled by law should surely have a voice
in what the law shall be, and who shall be
the law-makers.
	If we assist in bearing the responsibilities
of the government, we certainly should
have our share of its privileges. How
much better it would be if Utah could be-

[Column 2]
come a prohibition State, then this great
waste of money could be used for the ele-
vation instead of the degradation of man-
kind. It is hoped that there will soon be a
reformation in this respect. Some women
say they have all the rights they want but
none of us should entertain such a false idea
as this, for God never designed us to spend
all our lives in the kitchen but that we
should study and become intelligent beings,
continually using our influence for the pro-
motion of our fellow-man. It is now time
that the chains of bondage were broken,
and let us ask ourselves the question; if the
victory is won, are we prepared to bear the
responsibilities that will develop upon us?
As we all know we are living in an age of
progress, and let us make a study of the
Suffrage subject for there is no "excellence
without labor." So let us prove by our
actions that we do not enjoy “taxation
without representation” and may we my
fellow suffragists not cease now the goal is
almost in sight, but may the flames of free-
dom and equality continue to burn in our
bosoms, until we gain that for which we
are now earnestly laboring—Equal Rights.
May God grant this to be our happy lot.
ALICE GUNN.
Adamsville, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PEN NAMES.

			U. W. P. C.

	IT is a most difficult thing to put this
subject into such shape as to make it pre-
sentable to a club of ladies of varied
opinions and views, and therefore perhaps
the best method is to give a few facts.
There are many newspapers and journals
where the writer of articles and even one
employed in editorial work is not allowed
to sign his name or even a nom de plume;
to give all the reasons why not, would be
to go too much into detail. 
	In Boston considered the Athens of
America, for instance, one of the most re-
presentative papers the Boston Globe has
given large liberty in that respect, while
the Boston Herald just as representative
and as widely circulated gives no encourage-
ment of this sort whatever; there is in my
opinion two sides to the question and the
utmost need of discrimination; there are in
this city even restrictions in this regard
and they seem very proper on a daily
paper—the Chief Editor is answerable when
articles are not signed, and in many cases
that is better; if one is indignant at an
article, the chief of the establishment, must
answer for it, and his very position holds
him above petty annoyances; unless in a
very aggravated case, when suit for libel
would be brought against the paper itself.
In most ordinary cases of write ups and
interviews the person would not wish his
name attached, unless it were some very
celebrated or renowned personage, then
vanity might prompt the signing of one’s
name. In politics it would be sometimes
very indiscreet, not to say unpopular to
sign one’s name, and in the case of verses,
it would very often be wiser not to subject
one’s self to the unfavorable criticisms that
are frequently indulged in by the writing
fraternity, of each others effusions. For-
merly I was greatly in favor of pen names
but experience has led me to think of late
years, that one’s own name is better. And
my advice to all young writers is, use your
own name or at least your initials instead of

[column 2]
something fictitious, and yet even in this
matter there might be some exceptions
made. A very able man and one of many
years journalistic experience says, that the
idea that a writer is profited in his own
community by asing a nom de plume, and
that in order to gain reputation a pen name
must be used until the people demand the
real name of the author is on the decline.
“And he adds the actual real signature to
every production has its significance and
carries with it unquestioned worth, with-
out any exception whatever.” Had I time
I could give many facts to substantiate these
ideas.
	Speaking however, more particularly of
what we in our Utah Woman’s Press Club
want to know, perhaps one should give a
few actual names and the pen name. It
may be that was what was intended, it is
so long ago since the program committee
assigned this matter to one of our younger
members who never responded, that the
real idea is lost, and I was absent when the
subject was allotted to me, so if I fall short
of the demand I beg to be excused—but
will give you an item or two about women
who have gained fame and renown by using
the names of men;—but the idea probably
originated in the fact, that women as wri-
ters were looked down upon, called blue
stockings and considered almost unfeminine,
at any rate not fit for wives or mothers, and
often thought or considered immoral. That
excuse is not valid now.
	Ever since George Sand made herself so
celebrated by using a man’s name it seems
to have been a fad by many others, inferior
in point of ability, although George Eliott
surpassed her certainly in depth of senti-
ment and philosophy, it has often been said
that these two famous writers would never
have reached the zemith of fame attained
by them, had they not taken a man’s name.
	We in this era of woman would scarcely
be more willing to hazard a literary reputa-
tion on the name of a man, than that of a
woman, though we might perhaps use a
fictitious signature for reasons.
	Olive Schreiner whose story of an Afri-
can Farm created quite a sensation among
literary people, used a man’s name Ralph
Iron, but now that she is married her hus-
band it is said takes her real name instead
of her taking his, though recently I saw
both names used. Marie Correlli whose
books are the fashion now-a-days in many
circles, because they break new ground
and treat of the unseen,or pyschological sub-
jects mostly, or the occult, uses a name
which suggests a French or Italian woman
although she is said to be Irish and a sister
of the famous Irish writer Eric MacKaye.
Mme. Higgins Glenerne whose real name is
Lida Lewis Watson, she writes for the
Boston Globe and New York Mercury, has
published a volume of poems of which the
title is ‘'UNREST.’’ Aunt Fanny who writes
books for children is Mrs. Frances Eliza-
beth (Mease) Barrow, she also wrote for
the New York Ledger, Mrs. Mary Cahill
who uses the nom de plume of Marie
Walsh is author of Hazel Kirke and other
similar tales. Drock pseudonym of Robert
Bridges, assistant editor of Book Reviews
in “Life” and Scribner Magazines.
	We all remember the inspiring genius of
Fanny Fern, the sister of N. P. Willis the
poet, who had such a wonderful literary
reputation, and a most romantic life. She
kept the secret of her real name many
years, until she had earned a competency
by means of her pen.


Mary J. Holmes on the contrary has
always used her real name, and has also
earned money, and is a favorite story teller.
	George Eliott had the satisfaction (if
such it be) of having her work favorably
commented upon by the great men of the
day, as the work of a man of brains and
of uncommon talent, as well as sublime
reasoning in untrodden ways,
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is a
familiar nom de plume to us and also 
Marian Harland, (Mrs. E. R. Terhune)
but some others we read of and do not
know what the real name may be, or indeed
if the name is a real or imaginary one;
coming home to our own Utah—we have
several writers who are much better known
by the pen name than by their own, Ruby
Lamont, Millicent, Hope, Homespun,
Hyacinth and a long list for a new country.
These are all women, but we also have
men who use a nom de plnme.
	When in San Francisco as a Delegate to
the Convention of the National Editorial
Association, I heard some discussion upon
this subject, both in reference to poets and
newspaper people. One lady who is em-
ployed a reporter on a Chicago paper whose
editor did not permit those employed by
the office to use signatures, stated that hav-
ing strong perferences in favor of using her
own name, and being desirous of building
up a reputation as a writer of some merit,
she persisted in signing her name to all her
articles, which for many months was as
persistently left out, though nothing was
said; finally the chief editor being absent
for some time, the signature attached was
used without comment, when the editor re-
turned she fully expected according to her
own account to get the “grand bounce”
but on the contrary nothing was said and
her name was allowed to appear.
	One other case was of Elizabeth Akers
Allen (whose daughter related the story to
me,) and who is famous all the world over
for her beautiful poems, and especially for
the one song sung in our own and other
lands, “Rock me to sleep mother,” when
a young girl she used the nom de plume,
Florence Percy and other signatures and
afterwards when she tried to collect her
poems for publication she found great diffi-
culty in securing them and some she never
succeeded in getting, consequently she ad-
vises all young writers to use the real name;
and, now let us come down to the reality of
our own club here at home, and be what
we are in and of ourselves, original as far
as possible, without affectation and without
imitation except in so far as we must con-
form to certain rules and observances, but
not be afraid of re-writing and polishing,
or fear that it will kill the spirit, for the
same rule will assurredly apply in writing
as the inspired prophet of old declared,
when He said the spirit of the prophets, is
subject to the prophets—and the world of
 mankind agree that poets are inspired, and
it matters not whether the poet be a man or
a woman—for we know of old, women were
inspired to lead, to sing, to judge, instance
the song of Deborah etc, and we have had
in our time, our inspired poet and prophet-
ess, and leader in modern Israel, Eliza R.
Snow whose name and fame are immortal-
ized.					E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN Japan there is but one lady lawyer,
—Madame Tel-Sino. In England, as far
as we know, there are none. In this
country there are about one hundred.—Ex.


THE HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIC
			ASSOCIATION.

MRS. AGUSTUS HEMENWAY HON. PRES.
	THE Home Department will have merit
of an unusual kind and must be judged by
other than a merely exhibitional standard.
	It will be in the main a study of Domes-
tic Science and of Household Econony,
both of which are of great importance to
the National welfare.
	I have visited as a careful observer among
the industrial classes, in cities, towns and
manufacturing villages, and have studied
the conditions, tendencies, dangers, and
opportunities of these classes and the duty
towards them of the educated and the
wealthy, who have combined with me to
show during the days of October, work full
of testimony as well as theory, in the
Home Department of the Worlds Food
Fair 1894.
	The work will prove that these ladies are
more than mere observors, having drawn
large inferences, they will offer through the
best of engaged talent, remedial agencies
and appliances, to meet the real conditions
of house and society, elevating the tone of
both private and public life.
	The wide prevalence of haphazard
methods, and the general ignorance in re-
gard to proper ways of cooking and com-
bining articles of food to get the best as-
similation, is alarming, and jeopardizing
the fundamental interests of the State, and
the best development of the whole race,
unless a higher intelligence and more
rational methods are diffused.
	The formation of the Home Department
in connection with the World’s Food Fair
gives a wonderful opportunity for the
presentation of scientific facts in aid to
others less enlightened, to direct and help
them into more rational ways of living and
thinking. This work is made possible by
the allotment of space and the generous
financial support of the Board of Manag-
ment of the Fair, who will thus help to
spread a constant intellectual feast for all
who are interested in these vital subjects,
and who is not at least three times a day?
	We can only mention specimens of the
feature of the work. It will cover con-
densedly a large and varied field, dealing
with Home topics in the true spirit of high
moral aim united to sober study of facts.
Aiming to be lucid and simple, the work
of the department cannot fail to do good
service in at least stimulating suggestive
thought.
	A condition of pleasantness in the house
is a real power in refining and raising the
character of the inmates. Ugliness and
discomfort blunts the sensibilities, low-
ers the spirits, destroys and vitiates the
appetites.
	One suite of rooms will be under the
auspices of the Household Economic Ass.
of which Mrs. Augustus Hemenway is
Honorary President, and Mrs. Minerva B.
Tobey, Acting President, she being also
Vice President of the National Association
for Massachusetts. These rooms well il-
lustrate a Sanitary Bedroom and Bathroom.
	Our present sanitary ideas are reforming
the fittings and care of the sleeping apart-
ments, and the dealers keep pace with the
demands of the scientiest, from whisk
brooms, soaps and powders to sanitary floor
finish and furnishings. These subjects
will be presented and discussed by Mrs.
Tobey, in the lecture room.

[Column 2]
	The best authorities will likewise discuss
and give illustrations of hygienic, economic,
and vegetarian meals in a room set apart
for Hygienic and Economic features. The
table of costs and restrictive  values being
presented at the same time to show that
the grocer is not a secondary factor to the
butcher in furnishing table supplies.
	Mrs Susanna W. Dodds M. D. and Dean
of the Hygienic College of St. Louis will
visit Boston during the month to take an
active interest in this department. She
will add greatly to the value of the
Hygienic Feature.
	The Library will contain works on
architecture in its relation to Sanitation,
Cook Books, Health and Hygienic Litera-
ture, as well as current magazines bearing
upon the Home questions, such as the New
England Kitchen Magazine, Household
News, Table Talk, Food, Home, and
Garden, and others.
	A few days and evenings will have
national names, and be observed accordingly,
distinguished guests of those countries be-
ing present.
	The lecture room in the midst of the
latest conveniences for the scientific and
easy preparations of foods will after all be
the attractive spot for many, there some of
the best talent will daily demonstrate and
lecture upon cooking from 10-30 to 12 a. m.
	Mr. Nankanura will deliver a short lec-
ture in the lecture room which will be
beautifully illustrated by choicely colored
lantern slides. On this occasion he will
show us the interiors of their homes,
especially the culinary and feasting rooms,
interspersed among views of their gardens,
etc. A reception will be given to the
representatives of Japan visiting us. Miss
Shidsu Mori now attending Radcliffe Col-
lege will be among the honored guests.
	Lovers of beautiful things may find
most beautiful Russian Cottage Industries
goods for their home tables, examples of
the weavers skill, so delicate that even
fairy spinners might envy the gossamer
texture.
	These Industries were founded by
Princess M. Schahovskoy and her friend
Mme Pogosky. These ladies are at present
travelling through Russia collecting but
will return bringing with them many
articles for October and the exhibition.
Mme Pogosky’s daughter will assist in her
native costume, her head bound with a
scarlet fillet, hair tightly braided in a single
plait, and her neck encircled with string
after string of multicolored beads.
	Mme Eugenie Lineff, Musical Director of
the Imperial Opera in Moscow, will be
present also on the day when Russian Home
Costumes are shown.
	Princess M. Schahovskoy and Mme
Pogosky were associate judges with me at
the World’s Fair on the jury of experts.
A reception will be given these ladies, and
to specially invited guests. Russian Tea
will be served after which the audience
will be entertained in the lecture room by
Mme Lineff assisted by the Russian Choir,
giving some of the most characteristic
Russian music, followed by tableaux or
living pictures in the Russian costumes
and customs. Other nations will through
distinguished representatives make in-
structive and pleasant special days.
	A few evenings will be given to
Stereoptican lectures, illustrating sanitary
facts. We are to have a lecture by Mrs.
Tobey showing the plans of Mrs. Stuckarts
forty-four co-operative homes now building


in Hyde Park, Chicago. A large force of
earnest workers are busily engaged, as they 
have been for months to prepare this con-
tinuous treat to the public in connection
with the many attractions of the different
exhibitors. The work is most ably sus-
tained by the Honorary Board and will be
skillfully helped along by the lectures and
others on its corps of workers.
	The names are of well assured reputation,
and exact knowledge. Among them are
Mrs. D. A. Lincoln of Boston Cook Book
fame. Miss Anna Barrows, Prin. of the
school of Domestic Science for the Y. W.
C. A. Miss Carrie Dearborn,late Principal
and now Instructor in Physiology in the
Boston Cooking School. Miss M. A.
Boland of John Hopkins University and
Author of Invalid Cookery. Mrs. Minerva
B. Tobey on Home Sanitation, and Susan
W. Dodds on Hygiene.
	Mrs. Carrie M. Dearborn will be in charge
of the Artistic display of cooked foods.
	Miss Elizabeth B. Sheldon, a graduate of
our Art Museum, daughter of Judge Shel-
don of New Haven Connecticut, will be
the decorater of the rooms. Her work at
the World's Fair was beautiful and very
much remarked.
	Miss Lucy Page Stelle will be in charge
of the Library.
	Helena M. Richardson, Secretary of the
Department.
	Address—Washington Ave,
		Winthrop, Mass. 
				ELLEN A. RICHARDSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.
	THE most insistent claim made in defense of the
present political subjection of women by the
rulers who wish this subjection to be perpetuated
is that all the interests of women are fully pro-
tected under masculine rule. A recent decision
of the Supreme Court of Iowa strikingly illus-
trates the absurdity of such a pretense. A
married woman of Manson, Ia., Mrs. Hall, hav-
ing fallen into a water main (carelessly left open
by municipal employees), and having, thereby,
sustained serious injuries, which incapacitated
her for work, sued the town for damages, and
received a verdict in her favor from the hurty,
awarding her $3,000. The town authorities ap-
pealed from the District Court’s decision, and
their appeal was sustained by the judge of the
Supreme Court on the following assumption: A
married woman being a "mere housewife" for her
husband, and he being bound for her support,
her earnings belong to him, and any loss of time
occasioned by the wife’s injury is solely his loss;
therefore, the husband only can recover damages,
and the wife’s claim is not valid, as the time lost
is not her time! Mrs. Ellen B. Dietrick, in the
Twentieth Cnntury, says:

	This remarkable decision (rendered in June of
the present year) places the wife in that Asiatic
category which speaks of a man’s wife, and his
ox, and his ass, or anything which is his. It deals
with the wife as a chattel, not even possessing the
measure of individuality conceded to the average
modern man-servant or maid-servant. It de-
grades housekeeping below the level of all self-
supporting occupations, for the "mere housewife"
is not credited with earnings even her own sup-
port! It reeks of the ignorance of the days of
barbaric despotism, when parents sold their boys
for one purpose and their girls for another; or, of
the days of savagery, when captives became their
captor’s property, male captives being broken to
one form of yoke, female captives to another.
Behold how far the rights of woman have traveled
in the year of our Lord, 1894, in a land which
wishes to be considered as Christian!


PARTING.

BY COVENTRY PATMORE.

IF thou dost bid thy friend farewell,
But for one night though that farewell may be,
Press thou his hand in thine,
How canst thou tell how far from thee
Fate or caprice may lead his steps ere that to-
	morrow comes?
Men have been known to lightly turn the corners
	of a street,
And days have grown to months, and months to
	lagging years
Ere they have looked in loving eyes again.
Parting, at best, is underlaid
With tears and pain.
Therefore, lest sudden death should come be-
	tween,
Or time or distance, clasp with pressure firm
The hand of him who goeth forth.
Unseen, Fate goeth, too.
Yet find thou always time to say some earnest
	word
Between the idle talk,
Lest with thee henceforth
Night and day, regret should walk. 
SELECTED.


ROSA BONHEUR is no longer the only
woman artist who is entitled to wear upon
her breast the Cross of the Legion of Honor,
for a like distinction has just been bestowed
upon Mme Virginia Demont Breton, the
daughter of Jules Breton and the wife of
Adrien Demont, both of them masters of
the brush. Mme. Demont-Breton has for
the last dozen years been a successful ex-
hibitor, in the Paris Salon, of marine
pictures. “She is a little bit of a woman,
quite disproportionate in size to the big can-
vasses on which she works.”


Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
ADDRESS, 34 EAST FIFTH SOUTH.	TELEPHONE 383

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R. K. THOMAS

SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
OBSTETRICS.

	THE winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.

SPECIAL EXCURSION RATES,
VIA
THE UNION PACIFIC,
To Salt Lake City, for the Ter-
r orial Fair and S xty-fifth
Semi-Annual Conference, Oc
tober 2nd to 7th.

	For above occasions the UNION
PACIFIC will sell Excursion Tickets
at the following rates, to Salt Lake City
and return:

[Column 1]
From.			Rate.
WYOMING.
Laramie,			$23.75
Medicine Bow,	20.15
Carbon,			19 60
Rawilns,			15.50
Rock Springs,		9.75
Green River,		8.95
Granger,			7.75
Carter,			6.60
Hilliard,			5.05
Evanston,		4.60
Almy,			4.50
UTAH.
Wahsatch,		4.10
Castle Rock,		3.75

Park City,		2.50
Wanship,			2.50
Coalville,		2 50
Echo,			2.50
Weber,			2.25
Peterson,			1.75
Uintah			1.50

Ogden,			1.50
Hooper,			1 20
Syracuse Junction	1.10
Layton,			.90
Kaysville,		.80
Farmington,		.60
Lake Shore,		.[-]0
Centreville,		.3[-]
Woods Cross,		.25

Terminus,		1.50
Tooele,			1.20
Erds,			1.10
Hallway House,	.95
Lake Point,		.80
Garfield,			.7[-]
Saltair Junction,	.60
Chambers,		.50
Jordan,			.3[-]

WYOMING.
Opal,			9.60
Fossil,			9 60
Ham’s Fork,		9.60
Cokeville,		9.60
IDAHO.
Montpelier,		9 60
Soda Springs,		8.05
Bancroft,			7.25
American Falls,	8.00
Minidoka,		8.[-]0
Kimama,			10 80
Shoshone,		12.40

Beaver Canyon,	12 90
Dry Creek,		12.05

[Column 2]
From.			Rate.
IDAHO.
Market Lake,		10.3[-]
Idaho Falls,		9.50
Blackfoot,		8.20
Pocatello,		[-].00
McCammon,		5 7[-]
Oxford,			4.2[-]
Garner,			4.2[-]
Card,			4.25
Cannon,Ter.Line,	4.[-]0
Preston, Idaho,	4.2[-]
Franklin, “		4.2[-]
UTAH
Richmond,		4.25
Smithfield,		4.10
Logan,			3.[-]0
Mendon,			3.55
Cache Junction,	3.2[-]
Calvin,			3 0[-]
Collinston,		2.75
Dewey,			2.50
Honeyville,		2.2[-]
Brigham,			2 [-]0
Willard,			1.75
Hot Springs,		1.5[-]
Harrisville,		1.50

Frisco,			7 50
Milford,			6.50
Smith’s Ranch,	6.25
Black Rock,		6.[-]0
Oasis,			4.7[-]
Lemmington,		4.00
Juab,			3.25
Nephi,			3.[-]0
Mona,			2 5[-]
Santiquin,		2.[-]5
Payson,			2.35
Benjamin,		2.25
Spanish Fork,		2 25
Springville,		2 1[-]
Provo,			1.9[-]
Lake View,		1.70
Pleasant Grove,	1 50
American Fork,	1 3[-]
Lehi,			1.25
Lehi Junction,		1 2[-]
Draper,			.70
Sandy,			.[-]0
Junct on,			.85
Lovendahl’s,		.30
Germania,		.2[-]
Francklyn,		.25

Eureka,			3.25
Ironton,			3.25
Silver City,		3.25
Mammoth,		3.25
D[-]remus,		3 00
Rush Valley,		2.[-]0
Fairfield,			2.2[-]
Cedar Fort,		1.95

	SELLING DATES—From all points,
October 2nd to 7th inclusive, good for
return until October 15th
D. E BURLEY,
Gen’l. Agent Passenger Dept.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, -  Salt Lake City

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE [---]
Opp. G[--]nt B[---]. S[-]able


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1894.		NO. 8.


CONTENTS:

	After Many Years—L. M. H. Call For The
Second Triennial Session of the National Council 
of Women. Utah W. S. A. Convention—Nellie
Little U. W. P. C.—Ella W. Hyde. Mrs. East’s 
Visit. Dr. Parkhurst Crusade. Women Name
Candidates. Notes And News. R. S. Reports.
A Tribute Of Love—Emily G. Cluff. Obituary—
Kate Sanders. In Memoriam—E. C. E. F.
	EDITORIAL:—Interesting Trip South. Edi-
tonal Notes..
	POETRY:—Come. Back—Hyacinth. Autumnal
Dreams. Equal Rights—S. C. M.


COME BACK.

BRING back those happy days,
	When peace reigned in my heart,
And birds trilled forth their lays,
	In joyous merry part;
		When love was here,
		And naught was near,
		Thy presence here,
		To interfere.

My heart is lonely now,
	Since thou art far away,
No longer hopes allow,
	My sorrow to allay:
		Come back, my own,
		Nor leave me lone,
		Joy once mine own,
		Forever’s flown.

The waiting years have fled,
	In silence and in pain,
My blighted hopes are dead,
	No more to wake again;
		Ah, leave me not,
		To mourn my lot,
		Come back, lose not
		The goal we sought.
							HYACINTH.
August, 8th, 1894.


AUTUMNAL DREAMS.

WHEN the maple turns to crimson
	And the sassafras to gold;
When the garland's in the meadow
	And the aster's on the wold;
When the moon is lapped in vapor
	And the night is frosty cold;

When the chestnut burrs are opened
	And the acorns drop like hail
And the drowsy air is startled 
	With the thumping of the flail,
With the drumming of the partridge,
	And the whistle of the quail,—

Through the rustling woods I wander
	Through the jewels of the year,
From the yellow uplands calling,
	Seeking her that still is dear;
She is near me in the Autumn,
	She, the beautiful, is near.
					BAYARD TAYLOR.


"M. E. FRANCIS” is in private life Mrs.
Blundell, and resides at Crosby Hall, near
Blundellsands, Lancashire.


AFTER MANY YEARS.

	I HAVE found some things here much the
same as twenty three years ago and many
others seem to open a new world of pro-
gress of changed improvement of laud and
labor, the prime factors in wealth produc-
tion. It seems strange to be rapidly whirl-
ing over, around and through places I have
traveled walking on foot or conveyed by
common wheel now on electric cars or
wings of steam. Your pretty fancying
this visit after so long a lapse of years like
going to another world is unique indeed.
But the satisfaction great as it may prove to
be, must come far short of what we are led
to expect in the world immortal, where
there is no sorrow or sighing and where
tears are wiped from all faces, and no graves
dot the surface as here on hillside and vale,
to constantly remind us of our mortality
and assure us that here, “we have no con-
tinual city or abiding place;” but there is
pleasure akin to pain coming back after
long years to revisit once familiar lands and
places, and although we mark the changes
and meet but few of those that once
gladdened our hearts in the past and often
find that they too have changed, we love to
linger over memories associated with them
and every scene of the long ago is renewed,
of sunshine or shadow, of joy or sorrow,
and so we have a series of panoramic views
of the people, and times we once lived in.
	We have been to the old homestead in
North New Salem we walked over the spot
where the house once stood lingered long
upon the broad stone door step on the south
side from which I last beheld and bade a
tearful farewell to our Sainted mother, we
marked and gazed long upon the grand
spreading trees in front of where the house
once stood that our mother’s hands planted
when little saplings; we looked lovingly in-
to the clear waters of the never-failing well
which has supplied five families all through
the long drought while nearly all the wells
and springs around had failed. The well-
sweep and bucket looked the same as fifty
years ago and the pure waters from which
we drank were just as sweet and refreshing;
the little brook in which we gazed to be
reflected as in a mirror, went bounding and
leaping over its pebbly bottom as of yore,
singing the same musical song o’er and o’er.
	The School House and the Church in their
coats of white and green, the village store,
blacksmith shop and every house with very
few exceptions looked the same and in as
good condition with scarcely a mark or
change of decay. The roadways were the
same; some few more trees along by them,
but the orchards, homes and farms, looked
as when I last beheld them. There were
more graves in the pine grove cemetery
where we spent an hour or more the first
day of our visit, read names of many we
had known in the long ago inscribed upon
the marble. I spent the sabbath attending
Church service and Sunday School.
Besiah Fay now a noted man in this part
of the state taught the Bible Class, I was
greeted very cordially and invited to visit
and prolong my stay among them; was

[Column 2]
shown the inside of a door leading into a
closet from the vestibule in the Church
where in large painted letters I read the
names of our step father with the date Dec.
1836 after this names of sisters and several-
nieces who have visited the old Church
where our mother and her family worshiped
long years gone by—I added my name in
pencil to the list wondering who of onr kin
would inscribe theirs next. Mrs. Amos
Ellis took me to Moss Village. The Pond
and Vose places look the same, most of the
houses are replaced with large sized glass
for the small 8x4 lighted windows of yore.
The Lowell Vose place is now marked by
heaps of stones with shrubs and trees grow-
ing out of and among them; but strange to
tell: the grand Barberry tree that stood near
a back window of the house over fifty years
ago, remains bearing fruit annually.
All the places seem to stand still, undis-
turbed by steam or electric cars. The
sleepiest, quietest, unprogressive part of
this busy world imaginable, which seem-
ingly nothing less than a tornado would
startle into activity, and that came very
near Sept. 10th, giving parts of New Salem
a sudden shaking, leaving North village 
undisturbed in its Rip Van Winkle Sleep.
You will read accounts in the papers of
this somewhat rare experience here in the
tornado line.
	A few inhabitants of North Salem are on
the superannuated list but the majority are
old people whose children, children’s,
children to the third and even fourth gen-
eration are scattered abroad or removed for-
ever. The merry ringing voices of child
ren are no longer heard in the streets, very
few attend day or Sunday School and these
come in from homes outside the village
proper. I saw only three lads the four days
of my stay and these were visiting grand-
parents. At the village store the Post
Office is kept as of yore. A hack conveys
United States Mail with passengers &c., to
and from, daily starting from Orange at an
early hour a. m.
	What we admired most in the way of
flowers was the dear old fashioned flowers
and shrubs which are ever tenderly as-
sociated with days of childhood and youth,
we were generously supplied of these and
other floral beauties to take with us. The
dear old neverfailing well, the clear run-
ning brook, just below, the broad spread-
ing apple tree, our dear mother’s hands
planted, the long wide stone now marking
the spot where her house once stood from
which she and her younger children went
out to return no more with all the surround-
ings of groves, fields and hills, were re-
viewed with an indescribable, mournful
satisfaction of feeling, mingled with grate-
ful thanks to the kind Providence that had
permitted this visit to these old places and
scenes (with dear sisters) after long years
in the West.					L. M. H.


THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH has been
writing poetry since 1856, when he pro-
duced a small volume of ballads. He was
then a clerk in a New York counting-room.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CALL FOR THE SECOND TRIENNIAL
SESSION
OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

	THE first Triennial session of the National
Council of women of the United States
was held in Washington in 1891. The
second such session would have occurred
in 1894 but for the fact that the organiza-
tion of the World’s Congress of Representa-
tive Women, held in Chicago in 1893, was
 entrusted to a committee of which the
President and the Corresponding Secretary
of the National Council were, respectively,
Chairman and Secretary. The time and
strength of these executive officers being
thus diverted from national to international
plans, it was ordered by the Executive
Committee of the National Council that
four instead of three years should elapse
prior to its next regular public session, the
date of which was then fixed for 1895. The
attention of women throughout the country
is thus early solicited to the following points
relating to the approaching Triennial:
	I. The Council will open formally on
February 18th, 1895, and, continuing two
weeks, will close on March 2nd, 1895; it
will be held in Metzerott’s Music Hall,
Washington, D. C.
	II. A meeting of which the officers of
the Council will have charge will be held
in the same Hall on the afternoon of
Sunday, February 17th. A second re-
ligious service will occupy the afternoon of
Sunday, February 24th.
	III. Exclusive of the Sunday meetings,
there will be twenty-four sessions of the
Council proper, twelve morning and twelve
evening sessions, besides probably two or
three extra afternoon sessions. The morn-
ing sessions will open at 10 a. m. and ad-
journ at 1 p. m.
	The first of these, held on Monday,
February 18th, will be occupied by the
President’s Address, and by the introduc-
tion of delegates, regular and fraternal,
and of guests; the second, held on Tuesday,
February 19th, and the last, held on Satur-
day, March 2nd, will be devoted exclusively
to formal business. The remaining nine
morning sessions will be filled by pro-
grammes made by the Committee of Ar-
rangments of the National Council. Topics
of broad general interest will be introduced
at these sessions by an adequate address
which will be followed by discussion in
which only duly accredited members of the
Triennial Council may participate, as
follows:
	(a).	The General Officers of the
National Council.
	(b).	 The patrons of the National
Council.
	(c).	The Members of all the four stand-
ing Committees of the National Council.
	(d).	The President of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(e).	The Delegate of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(f). The President of every State Coun-
cil, and of every Local Council, which
shall be affilliated with the National Coun-
cil prior to February 1st, 1895.
	(g).	The Delegates of every such State
and of every Local Council.
	IV.	In the business sessions mentioned
where alone discussion will culminate in a
vote, while the seven classes enumerated in
the conclusion of the preceding paragraph

[Column 2]
may participate in all discussions, the classes
described under (b), (c) and (g) may not
vote; but all persons included in classes
described under (a), (d) (e) and (f) may
vote upon all propositions thus formally
acted upon.
	One morning session will be devoted to
each of the four subjects continuously con-
sidered by the National Council through
its four standing Committees. The pro-
gramme for all the morning sessions will be
published later in detail.
	VI.	The evening sessions will open at
8 p. m., and will adjourn at 10.30 p. m.
Exclusive of the last they will be devoted
to the presentation to the general public of
the work of the organizations composing
the National Council, through programmes
which will be prepared by the officers or by
special committees of such organizations,
the separate programmes being subject to
the approval of the Committee of Arrang-
ments. The last evening session, viz., that
held on March 2nd, will be occupied in pre-
senting the work of the National Council
proposed for the immediate future, and in
introducing the officers elect for the next
term.
	VII.	According to the Constitution,
national organizations entering the National
Council later than three months prior to the
opening of the Triennial Session of 1895,
cannot be considered members of the Coun-
cil until after said session, although the
officers and members of such associations
will be welcome guests at the Triennial.
	VIII. The National Councils of women
already formed in foreign countries, as
France, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany
and Canada, will be invited to send frater-
nal delegates: while all of the officers of
the International Council of Women will be
invited to attend, and its President, the
Countess of Aberdeen, may be confidently
expected.
	Pending the publication of the programme
in detail, the officers of the National Coun-
cil bespeak the interest of all who read this
Call, and solicit correspondence on the sub-
jects which it suggests.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, President,
		343 N Pennsylvania St. Indianapolis, Ind.
FRANCES E. BAGLEY, Vice-President,
		113 Washington St., Detroit, Mich.
LILLIAN M. N. STEVENS, Treasurer,
		Stroudwater, Maine.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec'y.
		Somerton, Philadelphia, Pa.
ISABELLA CHARLES DAVIS, Rec. Sec.
		158 West 23rd St., New York City.


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, September
29th, 1894. President Shipp in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. W. Hyde.
Roll call was responded to with sentiments
from Elizabeth Barrett Browning. An in-
teresting program was carried out as follows:
Miss Maude Pratt favored the club with a
vocal selection. Vice President R. M. Fox,
read an original poem entitled, “Retribu-
tion” which was very pathetic. It
was followed by an instrumental selection
from Mrs. [-]. Boyden. President Shipp
gave a select-reading entitled, “The true
home the salvation of the nation.” After
which Olea Shipp favored the club with in-
strumental music. Mrs. E. Boyden recited
in a pleasing style, “Othello’s Apology.”
	A motion was made and carried
that the club meet at half past seven in-
stead of at eight o’clock, as the evenings
were getting longer.
	President Shipp gave notice of a lecture
to be given in the theatre by Edwin Milton
Royle for the benefit of the Pioneer
Library, urged the club to attend. Also
said the next session of the club would be
the last one of the year, she desired a good
attendance, and hoped to have an interest-
ing meeting. A special committee was ap-
pointed to meet and arrange a program for
the occasion. Meeting adjourned for one
month. Benediction by Mrs. N. C. Taylor.
After which refreshments were served.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.


UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.
	THE Annual Convention of the Ter-
ritorial W. S. A., of Utah was held Oct.
9th, 1894, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
First Vice President Emily S. Richards in
the chair. Opening prayer Mis. E. J.
McFarlane. The minutes of the previous
Annual Convention were read and accepted.
The Treasurer read her report for the past
year which was approved. The Associa-
tion then proceeded to elect its officers for
the year 94 and 95., as follows—
	Emmeline B. Wells, President Emily
S. Richards, First Vice President; Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, Second Vice President;
Carrie E. Dye, Third Vice President; Nel-
lie Little, Recording Secretary; Augusta
W. Graut, Corresponding Secretary; Ruth
M. Fox,Treasurer. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chair-
man of Executive Committee. Elizabeth


McCune, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, E. J. McFarlane, Ella W.
Hyde, members of Executive Committee.
May Wells, Chairman of Publishing Com-
mittee. Louisa Greene Richards, Annette
W. Culmer, members. Eliza A. Bennion,
Susie Bennion, Auditors.
	The chairman called for reports from the
different counties. Mrs. E. J. McFarlane,
Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Mrs. C. M. White
and Mrs. M. J. Shelby responded, repre-
senting respectively Salt Lake, Davis,
Beaver ard Rich counties. The following
resolutions were adopted by the Convention.
	“WHEREAS the Political parties of Utah
have manifested their approval of woman
suffrage by inserting in their platforms a
plank to that, effect.
	THEREFORE be it resolved that the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association in Territorial
Convention desires to express its grateful
appreciation of the liberality and justice
of both parties in thus recognizing the wo-
men of Utah as being entitled to equal
suffrage with themselves: that we have im-
plicit confidence in the earnestness of the
parties and we assure them that they will
never have cause to regret adopting said
resolutions. And when these champions of
liberty shall meet in convention to frame a
constitution for our State government, con-
taining such enlightened and progressive
sentiments as those embraced in their plat-
forms not only ourselves but our
co-workers throughout the Nation will
unite in showering heart-felt praises upon
their honored heads."
	Lucy A. Clark Chairman of Com-
mittee on Resolutions.
	The Convention adjourned to the call of
the president after the Resolutions were
adopted.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


EQUAL RIGHTS.

(Written for the B. C. W. S. A., Words and Music
	By S. C. M]
Now the voice of womankind is startling all the
	world;
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
Everywhere beneath the sun her banner is un-
	furled,
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
We but ask for freedom and the right to live and
	be,
	What we are designed in God’s great plan
And we’re sure all thinking men will very shortly
	see,
Woman must have equal rights with man.
	Chorus.
We but ask for freedom and the right to live and
	be
	What we are designed in God’s great plan;
And we’re sure all thinking men will very shortly 
	see
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
Should it be that in the land o’er which our
	standard waves
	And our eagle soars so proud and free,
Mothers, sisters, daughters should all be held as
	slaves,
	Should they have to beg for liberty?
We must pay our taxes, and the laws we must
	obey.
	And it’s time an era now began
When in the elections we can also have a say—
	Woman should have equal rights with man.
	Chorus.
Come my sisters, let us rise and educate our
	minds,
	Put aside our follies great and small
Work with heart and soul to help all womankind,
	Gather round our standard one and all.
Do not pause nor falter. but be valiant in the
	fight,
	And the flame of liberty we’ll tan.
Till it spreads o’er all the land, then hail the time
	of right,
	When woman shall have equal rights with man.


[Column 1]
MRS. EAST'S VISIT.

Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—Yours of September was
forwarded to me, and gladly received, bring-
ing with it a blessing from Sister Zina and
yourself, which I assure you was ap-
preciated, as I was not well, and far from
the Saints of God, in the midst of darkness
and opposition; to whom could I go but
God, O how glad I was that I had learned
to know that He was a tangible being, and
that He could hear and answer prayer, and
when asked the question by two Evanglists
what denomination I belonged to, my re-
ply was Latter-day Saints.
	Evangelist. "What's the difference be-
tween Mormons and Latter-day Saints?"
	"We are called Mormons because of the
record that was found containing a History
of an ancient people that dwelt on the
American Continent."
	Evangelist. "What do your people be-
lieve of the Trinity?"
	"We believe in the Bible which informs us
that God created man in His own image
and that Adam heard Him walking in the
garden and God called Adam, which proves
beyond a doubt that our Father and God
has a body and His Son Jesus has a separ-
ate body and the Holy Spirit or Holy Ghost
is an acting Agent bearing record of the
Father and son constituting one spiritual-

[Column 2]
ly, agreeing in all matters they are one."
	Evangelist. "I'll never be satisfied until I
visit Salt Lake City, do come and see us we
are not afraid of investigation, our doors
are open to receive all that's good and sift
truth from error, good morning!"
	The beautiful land of Texas has been
visited by cyclones and floods and the land
is filled with Evangelists, the people are all
joining some Church, it makes no difference
to them if they do worship a God without
body, parts or passions; fear has come upon
the people and saloons are being closed and
dancing disfellowshiped.
	I have found five that believe the Gospel
but do not feel that they can gather out;
they have defended our doctrines, and have
no doubt removed some of the prejudices
and misrepresentations in circulation
against us; I find the women are taking the
lead in some matters, they have organized
a society of women to get means to hire the
graveyard beautified and fenced, and are
hunting up the records; this is a laudable
undertaking, we understand this and would
recommend it to others.
	One dear friend said I was deluded, I
bore a faithful testimony to him, and sang
that beautiful, inspirational hymn, "O, my
Father," and told him the world knew not
that we had a mother in heaven, they
know not what a Temple is for, but thanks
be to God that I can testify of these things
the pre-existence of Spirits, it is the hap-
piest theme of my soul, the tears rolled
down his cheeks, from henceforth you
shall see me no more until you shall say
blessed is he that cometh in the name of
the Lord.
	I must not close without saying I wish
our sisters to appreciate the EXPONENT
I have with me the No. 15th, July with an
account of the testimonies of the Sisters on
the fiftieth anniversary of the martyrdom
of the Prophet Joseph by which my friends
here will see that our Sisters are intelligent
and not in bondage also have sent me by
Bro. Plant the Deseret News containing Ser-
mons of President Woodruff and O. F.
Whitney, that was a great help to me when
our people were accused of taking from
and adding to the words written in this
book, long before the Bible was compiled,
which they the accusers had to acknowledge.
also the funeral services of our beloved
Brother John Morgan whom we all loved
and can testify concerning, "blessed are
the dead that lie in the Lord."
	I am as ever your devoted Sister,
WILLMIRTH EAST.
	P. S. I desire to be prayed for in the
Temple, my health has been poor and no
one to administer to me or pour out my soul
to but God my Heavenly Father, I have
an abiding faith that I shall return to my
family and the Saints that are dearer to me
than all the splendor of a fallen world.
Kopper, Bosque Co. Texas, Oct. 10, 1894.


DR. PARKHURST CRUSADE.

	AN APPEAL FOR AID.
	NEW  YORK, Oct. 13—One thousand wo-
men, all members of leading social circles,
gathered yesterday afternoon to hear the
Rev. Dr. C. H. Parkhurst speak of “The
Condition of our city and woman’s relation
to it.”
	Dr. Parkhurst, after portraying the exist-
ing municipal evils, said:
	“It is your sphere, your duty, to aid in


retarding and extirpating the corruption,
vice, and wickedness which are damning
our young men and their possibilities. It
has been said that the development of the
past year and a half, have done much to
abate this. But this is not so. With all
the fighting that has been done and all the
efforts that have been put forth, it remains
patent that the police department today is in
precisely the same condition as it was two
years ago—in league with vice and with
those who foster and promote vice and
crime.
	“You must help in rubbing out forever
our present city administration. The work
of stopping this is woman’s sphere. Your
power is immense. You can do nothing
more effective in the four weeks between
now and the election than intensify the
personal feeling which should actuate this
campaign. You women should do this.”


WOMEN NAME CANDIDATES.

	SAN BERNARDINO, Cala., Oct. 13.—The
women of San Bernardino met in conven-
tion and nominated a full county ticket,
selecting candidates from the four tickets in
the field. It purports to be non-partisan,
but the temperance element predominated
and candidates were chosen with that quali-
fication in view.
	On November 3rd an election will be
held in all the precincts of the county, and
the women will turn out in force to elect
their men. The convention consisted of
sixty-five delegates and was conducted in a
creditable manner. A dispute arose as to
the non-partisan platform but was soon set-
tled. Many stirring speeches were made
and all the delegates were on the qui vive
of ecstatic delight.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	JEROME K. JEROME has retired from the
editorship of the Idler in favor of his as-
sistant, Robert Barr. Mr. Jerome has his
hands full with his weekly, Today.
	A NEW magazine, called the Bostonian,
is to be published in Boston, beginning in
October. Its editor will be Arthur Well-
ington Brayley, and the periodical will be
devoted mainly to the past and present in-
terests of Massachusetts, and of Boston in
particular. A novel feature of the publica-
tion will be the issuing of two editions, one
in paper covers, at the price of fifteen cents,
and another in cloth binding, at twenty-five
cents.—The Writer.
	MISS DOROTHEA KLUMPKE, who has
distinguished herself in Paris, and who
passed her examination before the Sorbonne
so triumphantly, presenting a thesis on the
nature of the rings of Saturn, and receiv-
ing her doctor’s degree, is a sister of Miss
Anna Klumpke, of Boston, an artist who
has a studio on Beacon Street, and who
is known as a portrait painter of very excep-
tional power. Her sister in Paris, who has
been made a doctor of science, presented in
her thesis before the Sorbonne a very new
and original theory regarding the rings of
Saturn—that they are composed of solid
masses rather than of gaseous or fluid sub-
stance, as has heretofore been believed.
There is still another of these talented sis-
ters—Dr. Djerine Klumpke, who is a doc-
tor of medicine, and is living abroad.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Cam[-]lia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
Salt Lake City,	OCTOBER 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
INTERESTING TRIP SOUTH.

	IN company with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, President of the Relief Society,
we left Salt Lake City, Wednesday morn-
ing Sep. 12th ult., on the Union Pacific
Rail Road, on a trip through some of the
Southern counties in the interest of Wo-
men's Organizations. Arriving at Milford
we found a carriage in waiting and dear
Sister Lucinda Howd, President of the
Beaver Stake Relief Society, who had come
all the way from Beaver (in a high wind) to
welcome us, and accompany us on our
journey. We lost no time in stepping from
the train into the carriage, and were soon
on our way, it was a beautiful moonlight
evening but the wind was blowing a furious
gale; we arrived safe at Brother McKnight's
at Minersville about 10 p. m. and found a
warm welcome, from Brother and Sister
McKnight and supper prepared.
	At ten, the following morning Sep. 13,
we attended a meeting of the Relief Society.
Sister Lydia McKnight presiding in the
absence of the President Sister Susan Rob-
erts, whose mother was so ill she could not
leave her. At this meeting there were
some veteran brothers and sisters among
them, Brother Henry Rollins and wife
and Sister Mary E. Lightner, these were
old aquaintances of ours particularly of Sis-
ter Zina who had known them in Kirtland.
Brother William Wood who leads the choir
there, was also a veteran, had known
Joseph the prophet in Nauvoo. Some very
interesting testimonies concerning the
Prophet were borne by these brethren and
sisters who had been intimately acquainted
with him.
	Leaving Minersville early in the after-
noon we reached Beaver in good time and
were driven to the residence of the Presi-
dent of the Stake C. M. White. Several
sisters, some we had never met before, had
gathered there to meet us, and among
them one particularly dear old friend Sister
Ruth W. Tyler. It is needless to say we
were feasted, but we were everywhere we
went, and the good feeling manifest to-
wards us at all times and in all places was
very gratifying except that we felt un-
worthy of so much attention.
	Friday morning September 14, the Re-
lief Society Conference, began in the Meet-
ing House, Mrs. Lucinda Howd presiding.
Considerable pains had been taken before-
hand with the choir under the manage-
ment of Brother William Bickley, and the
music was excellent, which always adds
very much to the enjoyment of the services.
The stands were beautifully decorated with

[Column 2]
flowers and the sweet perfume was very
delightful. There was a good attendance
although it was harvest time and conse-
quently not many of the brethren could
leave the fields, and some sisters were de-
tained to cook for the harvesters, as is in-
variably the case in farming localities at
this season of the year, although afternoon
and evening meetings were very full. The
reports from wards were very satisfactory,
Beaver City has a flourishing Society, Ruth
W. Tyler, President; the Society has a
house large enough for the regular meet-
ings and is well fitted up, and also a granary
and some land and other property. It is a
great satisfaction to see the several branches
of the Society prospering as they are in
Zion. It is a good omen, and a great credit
to the active workers and a blessing to all
Israel.
	Friday night we were at Brother and Sis-
ter Bickley's, who gave a musicale as an ex-
pression of their esteem and good will,
(notice of the affair was published last
month) the evening was very enjoyable.
Saturday was the Primary Conference
which was very pleasing, Mrs. Mary E.
Murdock presiding. In the evening there
was a general meeting very numerously at-
tended and we returned home with Brother
and Sister Tyler and had a very pleasant
time, listening to Sister Zina and our host
and hostess, talking over scenes and inci-
dents of the early days in the Church in
Kirtland and Missouri. Brother Tyler was
also a member of the Mormon Battalion of
which he wrote and published the History,
a few years ago.
	On Sunday morning we went with
Brother Bickley and visited the Sunday
School in the various departments and
listened to some exercises, then repaired to
the meeting house where the children and
teachers also all the higher classes of the
young people came together, and we had
the opportunity of speaking to them upon
the good work in which they are making
great progress. It is always a source of
satisfaction in visiting the different Stakes
of Zion to see what interest is manifested
everywhere in the Sabbath Schools, and is
certainly a favorable indication for the
future of Zion.
	We attended the regular service in the
meeting house in the afternoon, and by
special request of the presiding authorities
we each of us spoke a short time from the
stand.
	At the close of meeting we accompanied
Sister Sarah M. Dell to her lovely home.
Sister Dell was well and favorably known to
the Latter-day Saints formerly in Kirtland
and Nauvoo, by her maiden name Sarah
Milliken. She was associated with the
Prophets family in early days and also con-
nected by marriage, her brother Arthur
Milliken married Lucy Smith, sister of the
Prophet. Sister Zina had been very
intimately acquainted with Sister Dell in
Kirtland when they were both young
ladies, and the reminiscenses were many
and rather pathetic. Sister Dell is one of
the most able and useful women in Beaver
County, is influential and interested in all
lines of progress and enlightenment, and
lends her aid in all directions for the ad-
vancement of every good cause. Although
she has reached four score years, she is re-
markably well-preserved and there is no ap-
parent failure in any respect, except per-
haps she cannot do quite so much actual
work.

[Column 3]
	In the evening there was a Young
Ladies Meeting, though all were invited to
come and there was a very large and in-
spiring congregation.
	Monday morning at 10 a. m. the Conven-
tion of the Beaver W. S. A. was held.
The stands were elaborately decorated,
with flowers, the suffrage color, (yellow)
predominating, the association has a hand-
some flag with the two stars representing
Wyoming and Colorado, on the deep blue,
and Utah just faintly seen in the distance,
but they are not by any means fearful that
Utah will not shine in the galaxy of in-
dependent states with equal suffrage. The
ladies came wearing their yellow ribbons,
and not lacking in mental talent, or a
knowledge of the subject in which such a
deep interest is taken by the Association.
One pleasing feature of the meeting was
the original songs, written for their own
use, one of them we publish in this issue
composed by Sarah E. Maeser, President of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake.
Music by William Bickley, who has also
written one or two himself and who seems
to take as much interest in woman suffrage
as the ladies do themselves. The brethren
there are good staunch supporters of the
suffrage movement, which makes it so much
easier and more interesting for the Associa-
tion.
	The address of welcome by the President
Mrs. C. M. White was worthy of a college
graduate, it was a sort of surprise, as we
had not realized that Beaver was so far
ahead in suffrage work, though we knew
by the delegate who had attended the Ter-
ritorial Conventions, that they were mak-
ing rapid progress in this direction. We
really felt rather delicate about speaking be-
fore a convention that seemed to have so
many able speakers among their own num-
ber.
	The County officers are all well-qualified
for their duties and the President is un-
doubtedly a real leader. Mrs. White pre-
sided with dignity and is up in Par-
liamentary rules. We could not but feel
that Beaver Co. was well-equipped for the
necessary work preparatory for the fran-
chise. Possibly we may have minutes of
this Convention and of many of the meet-
ings held during our journey, sent for pub-
lication and therefore it is only needful to
make brief mention.
	In the afternoon the W. S. A. gave an
entertainment in the Relief Society Hall
with a regular program, Mrs. C. M. White
in the chair. The affair was quite elaborate,
and the program was a very instructive as
well as an entertaining one. The Hall was
profusely decorated with flags, flowers and
banners, and the large pictures of the
two great leaders of the National W. S. A.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony were hung in conspicuous places,
and the noble work of these women, as also
the late lamented Lucy Stone (always
reverentially mentioned) were often alluded
to by the speakers.
	Monday evening there was a meeting of
the Young Ladies Association of Beaver.
It was a beautiful sight to see the hall well
filled with young girls and young mothers,
all engaged in mutual improvement and in
spiritual growth and development, it is a
positive proof of the advancement of the
youth of Zion, for as women are, men are,
in a large degree, and society everywhere
is judged by the women of the community.
Many testimonies were borne and the work


of the Guide class favorably reported up-
on. At the close of the meeting Sister
Zina spoke in the gift of tongues with great
power, and the Holy Ghost thrilling the
entire audience. Many were present who
had never before heard the gift exercised,
and expressed great joy in being privileged
to hear it and to realize the spirit manifestly
attending its expression.
	Monday night we stayed at Brother J. R.
Murdock’s, Brother Murdock was absent
from home having gone to Salt Lake City
to attend the Republican Convention. We
had a most enjoyable time during our stay
in Beaver and were very hospitably treated 
by the brethren and sisters, for whom there
was so little we could do, however we
visited the sick and were much blest in do-
ing so, and we sought to give comforting
words to all that were in trouble and in
sorrow. One afternoon between meetings
Bishop Mumford took us in his carriage out
to Ft. Cameron, or what was once the
military station of that name.
	The “Post” is deserted now, and the
large buildings formerly used as Barracks
and Hospital, officers dwellings, and
Headquarters of the Army stationed there,
are all deserted and show plainly that the
place is uninhabited. One old couple live
there rent free to take charge of the
property, the groves are much frequented
as pleasure resorts during the summer
season, and this seems the only practical
use the once flourishing grounds can serve 
at present. One cannot help feeling what
a serious mistake the Government has
made in expending money to no real pur-
pose at Beaver and elsewhere in Utah.
	Tuesday morning September 18th, we
left Beaver for Parowan going by way of
Buckhorn Springs, Brother Harris of Beaver
driving, accompanied by his wife; we
lunched at Brother Ward’s at Buckhorn
Springs and after the horses were fed and
rested we continued on, arriving towards
evening at Parowan, where we were
hospitably entertained at Bishop Adams. 
	Wednesday the 19th, we attended two
meetings at Parowan and after the after-
noon meeting started in company with Sis-
ter Mary Ann Lunt for Cedar City. On
our way we called to see Almira Johnson
Barton, a veteran of the days of Kirtland.
She expressed great joy at seeing us and
was anxious we should stay and visit with
her, but the carriage was waiting and we
were expected at Cedar City that evening
and had promised to take supper at Sum- 
mit on our way. It was dark when we
arrived at Brother Dalley’s at Summit, but
a warm supper and a warmer welcome was
ready and we fully enjoyed the pleasant 
visit of about an hour, when we bade those
dear friends good-bye promising to have a
meeting there on our return trip. About
ten o’clock we drove into Cedar City to the
residence of Brother and Sister R. R.
Birkbeck receiving the most cordial welcome
from these dear old friends. We remained
in Cedar City two days meeting with the
Relief Society, the Young Ladies’ and the
Primary, and we had very interesting
meetings, the organizations all in good
working order and a spirit of love and
union prevailing. We spent some of the
time visiting the sick, and renewing old
acquaintances as we met with the people in
public and in private. The sisters spared no
pains in entertaining us, and we thoroughly
enjoyed our visit spiritually as well as
temporally. President Jones fitted up a

[column 2]
conveyance and furnished a driver to take
us on to Bellevue, and on Saturday morn-
ing, Sep. 22nd, we started for St. George;
the weather was exceptionally fine and the
ride was enjoyable, though the roads are
very rough. We reached Bellevue in time
for dinner, and drove to the Gates House
formerly occupied by the late Elder Jacob
Gates,now the residence of his son Welling-
ton, who was absent from home, but Mrs.
Gates made us very welcome and showed us
every attention. Here we saw the first
real Dixie vineyard, and the grapes were
being picked and dried in very large
quantities; how luscious they looked, and
sweet to the taste; after resting awhile and
dining sumptously with the most delicious
frnits for dessert we proceeded on our journey,
but before going very far we met Brother
Windsor coming with a light conveyance
from St. George to take us in charge. We
stepped from one carriage to the other, and
bade good day to Brother Birkbeck and
Brother Walker who had come with us
from Cedar City and drove on towards
Leeds; Brother Windsor made our journey
very pleasant by telling us much that was
interesting concerning the Southern country
and their labors in that vicinity, also con-
cerning the Temple, and the work which
had been done since its completion and
dedication. The scenery during the drive
was enchanting, the gorgeous red moun-
tains flaming high up on either side, and
the bright sunshine like a brilliant glory of
light and splendor is past all description.
	It was dark and late when we came to
Leeds, but we found the President of the
Relief Society, Sister Martha Wilkinson,
who gladly entertained us for the night.
Here as at Bellevue were luxuriant vine-
yards and women busy drying and caring
for the fruit
	After breakfasting with Sister Wilkinson
next morning, we proceeded on our way
towards St. George passing through Har-
risburg and Washington, the morning was
delightful and the whole landscape charm-
ing, and Brother Windsor pointed out the
cotton farm and meadow lands, and told
us of the hard work that had been done in
those once desolate valleys to make them
“blossom as the rose.” and of the new
dam that had put into the Virgen river at
such great expense, which would convert
hundreds of acres of arid land into fruitful
fields. The long and dangerous dugway of
which one hears so much is indeed some-
thing like a terror to the timid traveler, but
when one reflects that everything which
has made St. George habitable, and when
one sees the comfortable homes and
furnishings and that all had been hauled over
these dangerous roads, one must admire the
industry and perseverance and the indomi-
table energy of the people who have built
up Southern Utah.
	As one nears St. George and looks down
into that lovely valley from the winding
hills, and beholds the beautiful white
Temple standing in the centre as though it
were “let down from heaven,” what
reverent emotions fill the soul. How won-
derful it all seems to those who know the
history of this people. St. George is in-
deed very beautiful seen from the hill-tops,
and this was a season when the trees and
vines were laden with fruit, and the picture
of this city in the valley, a few years since
silent and solitary, made such an impression
upon the writer as can never be effaced.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Relief Society Conference
held on the 4th, of October in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall was well attended by
officers and representatives from a distance,
though there were some stakes not reported
by any one. There were three sessions
morning, afternoon and evening, and much
good counsel given and valuable instruc-
tion imparted. Much regret was felt at the
absence of Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith who were absent
from their accustomed places and deep
sympathy was felt and expressed for Sister
Richards who was absent on account of the
very recent death of her only sister, Sister
Sarah S. Richards. Sister Smith had the
misfortune to fall and hurt herself a short
time before the Conference, though her in-
juries are not considered serious. We shall
publish as soon as possible, minutes of the
Conference so that all interested may know
the general tenor of the reports and the
teachings of the President.

	THE death of Oliver Wendell Holmes,
on the 7th, of October, was a sort of shock
to all those to whom his name and life-
work had become known. Since the de-
mise of John Greenleaf Whittier this event
has perhaps been looked forward to as a
thing that must transpire ere long, yet one
is none the less shocked when it actually
takes place. Of the great intellectual
giants of New England, this century has
produced (of whom there was a dozen or
more) Dr. Holmes is the last. To be sure
there are three others left of the class at
Harvard of 1829 but neither of them have
distinguished themselves as those to whom
we allude, whose names are forever en-
graven in the literature of the country and
whose noble lives will ever be an incentive
to the generations who came after them
while time shall last to “go and do like-
wise.” When poets, philosophers and
statesmen are also honest, honorable and
correct in their lives, beloved for their good-
ness of heart and admired for their virtues,
such examples are way marks to follow.
Dr. Holmes, was an upright,consistent con-
scientious man of the people, notwith-
standing his great fame, beloved and
reverenced by those who knew him inti-
mately, true as steel in all the relations of
life. When such men pass away, though
the nation mourns, they are not dead, and the
name and fame of Oliver Wendell Holmes
is immortalized.
	IT is with a considerable degree of satis-
faction we announce that Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp’s summer class of women students
in Obstetrics, recently passed a successful
examination before the Territorial Medical
Board. This is the first time any class has
been quizzed by them, as formerly it was
customary that the classes taught were ex-
amined as to their attainment by two or
three M. D’s. invited to judge of their
qualifications. In this instance it was quite
an ordeal, and naturally enough the Doctor
herself is somewhat proud of it and is cer-
tainly entitled to congratulations and well-
merited praise on account of the success of
her class, which reflects great credit upon
her method of teaching, and proves what
we have often heard before, that she is
practical and thorough in the discipline and
training of her classes. Each one of the
class received her certificate to practice in
her profession from the Territorial Board,


[Column 1]
and is now fairly equipped to enter upon
the practice of her chosen profession. The
names are Miss Sarah Reed, Woodruff
Rich Co., Miss Beda Erickson, Manti,
Sanpete Co. Mrs. Mary A. Turner West
Jordan, Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Elizabeth
Froerar, Huntsville, Weber Co. all of Utah.
We must also congratulate these students
that they have been so successful in their
studies and we hope and trust that they
will be wise, prudent and conscientious in
the use of the knowledge they have gained,
that they may be a blessing wherever their
services may be required.
	THE Semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held this month was in all respects
satisfactory and encouraging. The at-
tendance was numerous and the teaching
and instruction all tended in the direction
of spiritual uplifting and comforting to all
who desire to keep the commandments ot
God, and in temporal matters in the estab-
lishment and sustaining, of such home-
industries, as would be instrumental in
building up home institutions and manu-
factories that would give employment to
those in need of work and make the people
self supporting. Some very impressive
counsel was given in regard to the obser-
vance of Fast days and also upon the Word
of Wisdom, and the spirit of God was
poured out in rich abundance upon the
speakers and the immense congregations
assembled to listen. On Sunday Oct. 7th,
the last day of the Conference the people
could not all be accommodated with seats,
or even standing room, notwithstanding
there was an overflow meeting in the As-
sembly Hall, after the large Tabernacle had
been crowded. The spirit of the Confer-
ence augurs well for the future of Zion and
shows the great interest of the Latter-day
Saints who live at long distances from the
Centre Stake, who many of them travel at
great expense and inconvenience, that they
may hear the words of life and salvation
from the lips of servants of the Lord at
these great Conferences of the Church, and
carry home with them the spirit, and a
portion of the instruction given to impart
to others, and as a guide to their lives in the
work in which they and all true Latter-day
Saints are so deeply interested.
	THE North American Review for Oct.
contains a bright and argumentative
article by Lady Henry Somerset entitled,
“The Renaissance of Women.” The
reasoning is so broad and so clear that we
delight to republish it, had we the space
and power, but we hope most of the readers
of the Exponent especially those interested
in Suffrage might read it all. We quote
the following paragraph and from that we
may judge the pleasing and commencing
style of the article.
	"I believe that woman should vote be-
cause she is a different being and always
will have a different work to do in life from
that of man. She has a divine task to ac-
complish, you entrust her with the most
sacred duty on earth; you ask her to give
the nation her children; you ask her to nur-
ture and care for them; you ask her to in-
stil into their minds the holiest aspirations
that are to be their guide in after life; you
ask her, with all her experience and judg-
ment, to look upon the world with its
many social evils that her mother’s eyes are
swift to see while yours are blinded, and
then you ask her to believe that it is
'justice' that her voice should be silent, her

[Column 2]
action powerless to guard the interests of
her girls whom you declare that men, and
men alone must represent. You ask her to
sit through long weary nights rocking the
cradle, but when the child grows up to
manhood you say that she has no right to
deal with those questions that make for the
weal or woe of his future life. You do not
deny that in many cases women maintain
the home by their own labor, that by the
‘Sweat of their brow do they eat bread,’
that the children owe their education, their
clothing, the roof over their heads, to the
work of their mother’s hands; you do not
ask the men of the state represent the wo-
men when they have no one to earn a liv-
ing for, the children who are deprived by
death of a father or deserted by a worthless
husband; but only when you come to the
edge of the Rubicon, where toil is merged
into privilege, and penalties jars over into
power, do you say to the woman, “Stand
back; thus far and no farther!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Assembly Hall Sept. 21st, 1894.
President M. I. Horne presiding. On the
stand with the President were her Aids,
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder and
other ladies. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “O happy souls who pray,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Julia Pack. Singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Minutes of previous conference (morning
session) read and approved. Roll called,
thirty-nine branches being represented,
leaving eight without representation.
	President Horne gave special instruction
in regard to the time and manner of making
out reports. Spoke at some length on the
subject of Home Industry, and the impor-
tance of patronizing the Woman’s Store, felt
hopeful of its being a success The pro-
ceeds from the excursion had helped it
wonderfully, felt to thank all those who had
assisted in getting up the excursion said it
had been a success socially and financially,
gave a report of the same. Spoke of the
evils of fault-finding and pointed out the
duties resting upon us, dwelling especially
on the importance of mothers watching over
their children and guarding them from the
vices and evils that are so prevalent.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was pleased with
the report that had been given of the ex-
cursion. Spoke chiefly on Home Industry
and the Woman’s Store. Exhorted the
sisters to live as saints of God, because we
take with us the record we make in this
life.
	Sister Julia C. Howe was pleased with
the timely advice that had been given,
spoke of the evil results of being negligent
in our duties, continued the subject of
Home Industry and gave good advice in
regard to the care of children.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine made interesting
remarks on obedience, and the necessity of
watching over our children and teaching
them correct principles. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. singing, “Satan’s empire long
has flourished,” ect. Benediction by Sister
Elvira S. Hurst.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor
H. M. Whitney, her Aids and others.
Opened with singing, “How firm a founda-

[COLUMN 2]
tion,” etc. Prayer by Sister Martha Bar-
row. Singing, “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet,” etc. Minutes of previous
conference (afternoon session) read and
approved.
	President Horne was pleased with the
increased attendance. Stated it had been
decided to change the day of meeting from
Friday to Saturday, that the sisters who
were at the Temple might be present.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney asked for the
faith and prayers of those present as she
felt very weak; but still felt to thank the
Lord for his blessings. We all have trials,
thought they were sent for our purifica-
tion and for a wise purpose.
	Sisters E. Webb, E. Pixton, E. C. Claw-
son and L. D. Alder, addressed the con-
ference, touching upon the topics discussed
by previous speakers, and urged the im-
portance of having faith in sickness, and
not depending too much upon doctors.
	President Horne in her closing address
said we should let the things we had heard
sink deep in our hearts, and feel thankful
for the privilege of taking part in the Gos-
pel and dwelt upon the importance of train-
ing our children while young. Urged the
sisters of the Relief Society in all its
branches to be prepared to take care of the
poor through the coming winter that none
might suffer. Also thought the Relief
Society should make an effort to have an
appropriate exhibit at the Territorial Fair.
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Doxology.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Diana Reed.
				ELLA W. Hyde, Asst. Sec.

			BEAVER STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
of Beaver Stake held in Beaver City, Sep.
14th, 1894. Conference called to order by
President Lucinda Howd. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice, etc. Prayer by Patriarch
Daniel Tyler. Singing, Come all ye Saints
of Zion, etc. President Howd was pleased
to meet with the sisters in conference.
Thought that nothing but sickness ought
to keep us at home on these occasions,
was also pleased to announce that President
Zina D. Young and Sister E. B. Wells were
with us and would give us good instruc-
tions. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved. President R. W.
Tyler of Beaver reported the Relief Society
of this place as in good condition financially
and spiritually. There are about one hun-
dred and seventy members. Hold meet-
ings three times a month and we are study-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doc. &.
Cov. We are united in our labors and are
trying to perform our duties. President
Mary Davis reported the Relief Society of
Greenville Ward as being united in their
labors. Counselor Lydia McKnight re-
ported the Relief Society of Minersviile.
We try to feed the hungry and clothe the
naked. We rejoice in the gospel and the
testimonies of each other and have good
times in our meetings.
	President Zina D. H. Young then ad-
dressed the sisters in a very affectionate and
impressive manner. "I am thankful to see
your faces once more. We are all de-
pendent on our Heavenly Father for as-
sistance in all our labors.” Explained how
we are sanctified and justified through
keeping the whole law of Christ. Faith is
our guiding star and we should live for it.
Spoke of her visit to Canada and of the
gifts and blessings of the gospel enjoyed by


[Column 1]
the sisters there obtained by them through
fasting and prayer. Spoke on the proper
training of children, the benefits of home-
industries, especially of the manufacture of
silk, and the hygiene of dress. Said if we had 
observed the counsel of President Brigham
Young on this latter subject we would now
lead the world in these mattess. “We are
blessed above all other people on the face
of the earth and we should so live in the
performance of all our duties that we may
escape the snares of the evil one.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said the sisters were a
great help in all the important labors in the 
church. Spoke at some length on our ex-
hibits at the World’s Fair, said they were
an object lesson to the whole world. Re-
ferred to the manufacture of straw goods
and thought it might be made a great in-
dustry. “Our young people should be
taught to respect and honor the aged, and
to strive for a testimony for themselves.
If we have faith and perform our duties we
can receive every gift and blessing of the 
gospel necessary for our salvation.”
	President C. D. White would have liked
to have seen every sister in the stake at the
meeting to hear the instruction that had
been given. Appreciated very much the
labors of the Relief Society. “There are 
no better organizations, or none doing bet-
ter work than they. Thousands of bushels
of grain will be raised this year that would
not have been had not the sisters furnished
the seed. The church and kingdom of
God would be a failure without the sisters,
and the time is near when they will be
recognized as a great power in the earth.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. sing-
ing, “I saw a mighty angel fly.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop George Mumford.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. Singing,
“We thank thee O God, ”etc. Prayer by
Elder Robert Stoney. Singing, “O God 
our help,” etc.
	Stake Counselor S. M. Dell gave a few
words of counsel and bore testimony. The
statistical and financial report of the stake
for the year ending Dec. 31, 1893, was
read, showing a total cash disbursement of
$188.25; Property disbursed $168.63.
On Hand Cash, $160.65; Property, $187.82;
Real Estate, $3,670. Wheat 1194 bushels
17 pounds.
	Stake Counselor Lydia White testified to
the truth and her appreciation of the coun-
sel of the sisters. “Counselor Mary A.
White said: Relief Society women should
be exemplary in their lives as more is expected
of them than of other women. We should
exercise humility and diligence and strive
to overcome our weaknesses.”
	Sister M. E. Murdock:—“The allurements
of the world are great and we need the
"still small voice" to prompt us that we 
may escape them. Teach our children, boys
as well as girls, the priceless value of
chastity and as parents associate more with
our young people to encourage and lead
them in the right way.” The minutes of
the last annual meeting of the Beaver
Ward Relief Society were read by the
Secretary of that association, Sister Alice
Tanner.
	President Zina Young again addressed
the conference. “When the Relief Society
was first organized by the Prophet he said
the sisters could have no idea of the great-
ness of their work. Joseph turned the key
for women and their sphere has been widen-
ing ever since until now their influence and
power are felt all over the world. The sun

[Column 2]
never sets upon the Relief Society.
That is it extends more than half way
around the globe.” Spoke of the impor-
tance and sacredness of the work in the
Temples. “The spirit of Elijah is working
in the hearts of the people, even those who
are not of us, to hunt up their records that
the work in the Temples may go on.
Obedience and humility brings to us the
grandest knowledge on earth and opens the
door of Heaven to us. We can feel the
presence of angels even in our amusements
if they are conducted aright. Knowledge
is power and we need to learn the laws of
life and health so we can do without doc-
tors.” Gave instructions with regard to
clothing the dead and exhorted the sisters
to sustain the EXPONENT.
	Sister E. B. Wells also spoke of Temple
work. "There is, in the Temple, a heavenly
influence so exalting and inspiring that one
seems to be near the other shore. We
ought to be willing to sacrifice our worldly
interests once in a while to do some of this
great work.” Spoke of the importance of
education and the good we can do with it
if we only know how to use it. Re-
ferred to the great opportunities af-
forded by the World’s Fair to remove prej-
udice and error with regard to the great
work of the Latter-days. “In establishing
our home industries we hope to pay our
employees enough to honorably sustain
themselves.” Advised the mothers to keep
their girls at home and not expose them to
the dangers and temptation of city life.
“Use all the influence we possess to refine
and elevate ourselves and those around us.”
Spoke of the sisters store and asked the
sisters to help sustain it.
	Bishop Mumford was pleased with the
counsel that had been given and thought
the mothers in Israel the most important
part of the community,said I would not want
to be a bishop if I could not have the help
of the Relief Society. Exhorted the
mothers to teach their children the principles
of repentance and baptism that they might
better understand them when they come to
be baptized. Conference adjourned until
Saturday 10 a. m. Singing, “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by Elder Frank Harris.
	SATURDAY MORNING:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. After the
opening exercises President R. W. Tyler
testified to this being the work of the Lord
and He would give us knowledge intelligence
and strength if we were faithful to our trust.
	President Zina D. H. Young greeted the
sisters with words of love. “The greatness
and power in Israel consists in the people
being taught correct principles, and the
capacity the people have of self government.
Gave instructions on the order to be ob-
served in our organizations because we
want to enjoy the same spirit that prevails
in Heaven where obedience and order are
the first laws.” Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful to their duties particularly in the
matter of family prayer, and especially
those who have no husbands and are them-
selves heads of families, that a bond of
union and strength might be around them
and their children taught by precept and
and example, especially the latter, the way
of eternal life. President Howd spoke on
the mission of the sisters, their various
duties in the Relief Society and also in
their families. “The welfare and future
greatness of our children depend in a great
measure on the training they receive from
the mothers, hence we cannot be too pains-

[Column 3]
taking and conscientous in our teaching and-
examples. Pray for wisdom and knowl-
edge and our Heavenly Father will give
them to us.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke very
beautifully on the principle of obedience.
“It is only throught his principle we receive
all the gifts and blessings of the gospel.
The National Council of women will be
held in Washington next February and we
must make a good representation there.
It was the mind of our leading brethren
that we become a part of these great coun-
cils of women and it is a great advantage
to us and our money is not thrown away
that goes to pay our membership in those
Councils.”
	Sister Mary McDonough a sister from
Emery County; “I received the first gospel
sermon in this house and I have been faith-
ful to the work ever since. As I am about
to leave for my distant home and may
never see your faces again I wish to leave
this testimony with you.” The general and
stake officers were presented to the con-
ference and unanimously sustained. Bishop
Mumford gave further instructions to the
mothers with regard to the training of
children. President Zina Young blessed
the sisters and asked God to strengthen us
and help us to live unitedly. Conference
adjourned for six months. Singing, “Glory
to God on high,” etc. Benediction by
Patriarch D. Tyler.
	Thus closed the best and most interesting
Relief Society Conference ever held in
Beaver Stake. We appreciate very much
the counsel and instructions of our beloved
President Aunt Zina and her co-laborer Sis-
ter Wells and our prayers go with them that
may be blessed in their labors of love and
return in safety to their homes.
			LOUISSA JONES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RICHARD HARDING DAVIS was thirty
years old last April.
	“Curtis Yorke’s” real name is Mrs. John
Richmond Lee. Mrs. Lee was born and
educated in Glasgow.
	MISS ANNIE HOLDSWORTH, whose first
story, “Joanna Traill, Spinster,” was pub-
lished some months ago, edits the Woman's
Signal in London and is associated with
Mr. Stead in the literary work of the
Review of Reviews.
	MRS. ELIZABETH B. GRANNIS, of New
York City, as president of the Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
has a great many cases of suffering brought
to her notice. She is making appeals for
help from the charitable for funds to build
city and country industrial homes for women
where they may also take dependent mem-
bers of their families. In this connection
the fact is being brought to light that there
is no free temporary home for respectable
women in New York. The Superinten-
dent of Out-door Poor said recently to a re-
porter for the Times.
	“I say it is terrible. In this City of
New York a woman must first acknow-
ledge she is bad or she cannot get a place to
stay over night.”—Ex.
	FRANCES WILLARD passed her 55th
birthday on Sept. 28, and was given, as the
Chicago papers said, “Such a birthday
party as never woman had before" There
was a celebration at the Temple in the
morning, and at the First Congregational
Church in the afternoon. C. C. Bonney


made the address of welcome for the citi-
zens of Chicago, and Rev. Dr. J. H. Bar-
rows for the clergy; President Rogers, of
Northwestern University for the educa-
tors, and half a dozen other distinguished
men and women for different classes and
associations. Anne Whitney's bust of
Miss Willard was unveiled, and so was the
Chautauqua fountain. The boys Brigades
of the city escorted Miss Willard to the
church, and there was great enthusiasm.
It was a well deserved tribute.—Ex.
	THE remonstrants against woman suf-
frage think it would be “unwomanly” for
women to vote. They have an idea that
suffragists wish to place women in un-
natural positions. But the fact is the so-
called conservatives are far less sensitive
than the liberals on this point. In Ger-
many, for instance, where the emperor
claims to rule by divine right, and where
women are especially subordinate to men
socially, industrially and politically,there are
eight women colonels, all of whom draw
their pay regularly, namely, the empress of
Germany, the dowager empress, the
Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia, the
Queen Regent Sophia, Queen Wilhelmina
of the Netherlands, the Duchess of Con-
naught, the Duchess of Edinburg and
Queen Victoria.
	In Massachusetts, three of the brightest
opponents of woman suffrage have been
women intensely interested and active in
politics: one a member of the State Board
of Charities, who is supposed to have de-
feated Governor Butler’s re-election, one
an expert and successful lobbyist, and one
who is the author of a very popular politi-
cal handbook. They think it womanly to
hold office and instruct men how to vote,
but unwomanly to vote in person. Alas
for human inconsistency!—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	(To the memory of my Dear Friend Sister
Eliza C. Binder who departed this life at her
home Salt Lake City, March 26th, 1894, aged
61 years 2 months and 15 days.)
	MUCH sympathy was felt and many hearts
mourned her loss for she was well and very favor-
ably known through all the vales of Utah. The
family have kept open house for years at con-
ference times, and other public occasions, scores
find in their hospitable home a hearty welcome
awaiting them.
	I have visited the home since her demise, and
the same kind spirit pervades it, though her
room looks deserted,and her chair at the table is
vacant. “I feel that her sweet spirit like the per-
fume of long faded flowers, still broods over her
home with its love giving powers.”
	Sister Binder was a second mother to me, her
heart overflowed with maternal love,the sorrow of
her life was she never had a child of her own
The word mother whether lisped by the faltering
babe or the grown man, always brought a thrill
to her heart and a tear to her eye.
	She never missed an opportunity of testifying
to the truths of the Gospel, it was her delight to
converse upon and study its principles. She
looked anxiously forward to the evening when
the day’s duty ended and the family could gather
in her room, and talk upon the principles of sal-
vation. She was the pink of neatness,and ever
studied to make her room and person attractive.
She was swift to rebuke wrong and equally so to
approve the right, she received celestial marriage
and did in that principle what few women could
have done. She possessed great charity and car-
ried a heavenly influence with her, her sympathy
for the needy was substantial and she ever exerted
herself to relieve distress.
	The last winter of her life she undertook to
raise money to assist in paying the taxes of a
worthy sister who is alone in the world, though
she met many rebuffs and discouragements, she
succeeded in raising the necessary amount
	Her journey across the plains in the "Hand
cart company of 1856”is full of touching incidents


She with her husband have been members of the
Old Folks Committee for years and it was a great
pleasure for her to work for the comfort of all.
	Sister Binder was original, she leaves a void in
the community, but especially do I sympathize
with Brother Binder and his untiring companion
who have ever done all in their power to make
life sweet to her, especially through the many
years of her bodily suffering; no remorse is
mingled with their sorrow. I have visited her
grave in the silent city, which they two keep
green with freshly culled flowers. She was very
tender to the sufferings of others, but courageous
in her own, the Obituary Notes in the News and
Herald, at the time were much appreciated but
it would take a book to tell of her goodness and
kindness. I often wish that such as she could be
sent to this earth as ministering angels, to comfort
those who are passing through ordeals; but we
have the life of our Savior before us and we
should be satisfied with this, and the conscious-
ness, that we are striving for the plaudit, we feel
sure she has received. “Well done thou good
and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord.”
	We all miss her, but my deepest sympathy rests
with her bereaved husband, they were so devoted
to each other and so congenial for over forty
years. She was indeed, “A True Wife.”
	"His home she entered there to be a light,
	Shining within when all without was night,
	A guardian angel o’er his life presiding
	Doubling his pleasure, and his cares dividing
	Winning him back when mingling in the throng,
	From a vain world, we love alas too long,
	To fireside happiness and hours of ease.
	Blessed with that charm the certainty to please
	How oft her eyes read his, her gentle mind
	To all his wishes, all his thoughts inclined
	Still subject ever on the watch to borrow
	Mirth from his mirth and sorrow from his sor-
		row
EMILY G. CLUFF.
Provo City.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Draper Sep. 5th, 1894, Catharine Smith
wife of Absalom W. Smith, deceased was born
at Carston, Lincolnshire, England, Jan. 29th,
1821. She leaves four children, two sons, and
two daughters to mourn her loss. She was
chosen President of the Primary Association
when it was first organized in Draper over
fifteen years ago which office she held until her
death.
	She has also been associated with the Relief
Society since its first organization and held office
as teacher and counselor, until she was chosen
President of the Draper Ward Relief Society,
Sep. 11th, 1885. She was a true and consistent
Latter-day Saint in works as well as words, be-
loved by all and always valiant for the truth, and
has now passed to the great beyond to mingle
with the loved ones, and enjoy the reward of the
righteous.
	Through all her life she scattered flowers,
		Of love and sweetest smiles around
	She’s dwelling now in heavenly bowers,
		Where only love and joy are found.
KATE SANDERS, Ass’t. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	DIED Sep. 24th, 1894, in Morgan City, Utah.
Sister Harriet Nash Welch, wife of Thomas R.
G. Welch, at the age of sixty-three. Deceased
was born at Horstedkairns, Sussex, England,
April 17th, 1831. She embraced the Gospel in
Brighton, where she was baptized by Elder
James Pitman, Oct. 1st, 1853.
	In August 1835, she was married
to Thomas R. G. Welch, to whom she bore nine
children, six of them, one daughter and five sons,
survive her. Also twenty-seven grand-children.
Her hopes were centered on Zion, and she with
her husband and babe, sailed from Liverpool,
March 28th, 1857; arrived in Salt Lake City
September 12th, the same year, coming by Boston,
Iowa City, Florence, and over the dreary desert
plains. Went South on the advent of Johnston's
army, and returned to Salt Lake City in the
Spring of 1860. Brother and Sister Welch, re-
moved to Morgan County in the fall of 1860.
In 1879 Sister Welch was called, by Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, to preside over the Primary Associa-
tion of South Morgan Ward. She was then a
teacher in the Relief Society, but did not resign
the trust. The following year she was called to
preside over the Primaries throughout this Stake,
which office she filled earnestly and faithfully, un-


til the Lord called her home. Of late years, she
suffered a great deal, but her faith was great, and
she rallied time after time, to continue her great
work, for the living and the dead. Her love and
sympathy drew the children around her.
	To the funeral, which took place the 27th, of
September, 1894, the little girls of the Primaries,
of this Stake, came dressed in white to follow
the remains of their beloved President. The
hall was thronged. The choir sang deceased’s
favorite hymns: “How firm a foundation” and
“O, my Father Thou that dwellest,” after which
the Presidency of the Stake, father Robert Hogg
and others spoke of the good works and integrity
of the departed. The Primary children sang,
“Gather them into the fold,” and sorrowing
relatives, friends and neighbors looked once more
on the remains of our Sister who has gone be-
fore us.
							E. C. E. F.
Morgan, Oct. 1st, 1894.


DR ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
	MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, 	- 	Salt Lake City
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
			Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But'
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. G[unreadable] Bro. S[-]able
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
	in Obstetrics and Nursing
		on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
ADDRESS, 34 EAST FIFTH SOUTH. TELEPHONE 383.
R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS
		SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
			OBSTETRICS.
	The winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1894 No. 9—10.


CONTENTS:
	Harmony In Line And Color—M. B. Hanson.
A Very Pleasant Visit—R. E. Monech. Our trip
To Uintah—E. J. Stevenson. Woman Suffrage
Column. A Few Reflections—Z. D. H. Y.  U.
W. P. Club—Lizzie S. Wilcox. In Rural
England. R. S. & P. A. Reports. Jewish Wo-
 men—Rachel Foster Avery. Dr. Hemholtz,
The German Scientist. Suffrage Fight Reopened.
Notes And News. Obituary—A Sorenson.
	EDITORIAL:—An Appeal To Women. Edi-
torial Notes. Official Notice.
	POETRY:—Hear Me Margurite—Hyacinth. The
Chambered Nautlus—Oliver Wendell Holmes.
Golden October—Lydia D. Alder. Women And
Voting—Woman’s Journal.


HEAR ME MARGUERITE.

Did’st thou hear me, Marguerite,
When I called thee, Marguerite?
	Still in hope for thee I wait,
	Down beside the wicket gate,
	Till the evening hour is late,
	And the bird has sought its mat e,
Marguerite, my star of hope,
Give me but one gleam of hope.

Should I call thee, Marguerite,
Will you heed me, Marguerite?
	Haste thy coming o’er the lea,
	That together we may be,
	And in sympathy for me.
	Grant the boon I ask of thee,
Marguerite, my star of hope,
Give, O give one gleam of hope.
HYACINTH.


THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS.

BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

THIS is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign,
	Sails the unshadowed main,—
	The venturous bark that flings
On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings
In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings
	And coral reefs lie bare,
Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their stream-
	ing hair.
Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl;
	Wrecked is the ship of pearl!
	And every chambered cell,
Where its dim, dreaming life was wont to dwell,
As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell,
	Before thee lies revealed,—
Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
Year after year beheld the silent toil
	That spread his lustrous coil;
	Still, as the spiral grew,
He left the past year’s dwelling for the new,
Stole with soft step its shining archway through,
	Built up its idle door,
Stretched in his last found home, and knew the
	old no more.
Thanks for the heavenly message brought by
	thee
		Child of the wandering sea,
		Cast from her lap, forlorn!
From thy dead lips a clearer note is born
Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn!
	While on mine ear it rings,
Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice
	that sings:—


Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,
	As the swift seasons roll!
	Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last, 
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
	Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life’s unresting
	sea!


[Column 1]
HARMONY IN LINE AND COLOR.

	WERE I an artist with an artist touch I
might give this subject the justice it de-
mands, might clothe it in beautiful words
as an artist could in beautiful colors, might
show the curves and lines, hues and tints
in all their elegance and grandeur. All
beautiful things are the creations of nature
or art; and all natural things have some
claims to beauty; who can watch a sunset,
where the clouds are tinged with mellow
light, a flower sun-kissed into beauty, a
tree taking on the autumn tints of scarlet
and gold, or hear the murmuring brook
singing its never wearying song of praise
and thanks-giving for light, and air, and
freedom, and not feel, that in nature are
the truly beautiful, that which pleases the
eye, and satisfies the soul. We pass from
flower and rock and tree to the great mas-
terpiece of creation—Man. If there is
beauty in the shapeless rock or shapely
flowers, how much greater the beauty in
the straight lines, the rounded curves of the
contour of the human form, as left by the
Master’s hand. God made all the works of
his hand beantiful, but man by the use of
his art has caused to become distorted and
mis-shapen that beautiful human form.
The study of the relation of line and form,
color and complexion, open delightful pos-
sibilities, in the grace and manner of dress.
The proper clothing of the human form,
in becoming and graceful attire, is a study
which has been left too much to the dic-
tates of fashion, and the whims of the
dress-maker. How ever desirable the im-
provements proposed, or how ever salutary
the effects of the improvement there is in
the human nature an inertia that resents
disturbances from accustomed methods, or
fixed habits. It is easier to be regardless
of the pernicious effects of the present
habits of dress than to seek to improve. It
is easier to go on distorting the body, break-
ing down the health, and afflicting the
spirit, by wearing the clothes prescribed by
fashion than to exert one’s self to over-
come the defects caused by art, and labor to
restore the body, to its normal state and
rightful beauty. Till woman will allow
herself to think and be educated to this
higher stand, she can see no beauty in the
natural form. The eye has so long been ac-
customed to see the slender waist, the
clinging drapery showing the form, that it
is considered a type of beauty. How dif-
ferent is this present style from the beauti-
ful draping of the form by the Grecian, or
the Venecians, whose clothing was so con-
structed that they clothed themselves with
modesty and honor.
	With few exceptions all natural forms of

[Column 2]
acknowledged beauty are composed of
curves. The greater the unity in the
curves of the human body, the greater the
beauty of the whole. Any sudden pro-
jection any sharp angle is in the highest de-
gree contrary to beauty. A woman with
an hour-glass shape has no claim to
beauty nor were she properly educated
could she see any beauty in such form.
When women learn what a beautiful body
really is, the corset will not even be con-
sidered, for there is positively nothing to
recommend it, either as a means of beauty
or health, no woman can be truly grace-
ful and wear it. A slender person is made
more slender by its use, and all the beauti-
ful curves, are straightened out of sight,
which is not the object desired, and. if a
stout woman fondly imagine she looks
smaller, she is most certainly mistaken as
it simply crowds the flesh to another place,
making the hips larger, and the shoulders
square and higher, and exaggerates all the
curves till they are positively unpleasant to
look at.
	A woman to be beautiful must be grace-
ful and to be graceful requires that all the
muscles of the figure have full, free action.
The body should be clothed in such man-
ner that the robes fall gracefully from the
neck down. There should be no waist
line show, as there is positively no waist-
line in the human body. The dress should
be so constructed as to suggest a modest
covering that shows the natural curves and
graceful lines of the body; woman should
abandon the skin-tight gowns, and plan
something that is graceful and free and
that will hang from the shoulders. In the
selection of material for dress, much de-
pends on the size and form and complexion
of the wearer. If a woman is tall she
should select those tints of color, and styles
of make, which will harmonize with her
complexion and height. She will best
adopt such forms as will not increase the
look of height.
	Small delicate women will select styles
and material which increase the look of
size. They may wear light colored fabrics
very beautiful in themselves but with little
trimming and that choice. A large grace-
ful woman should clothe herself in soft
rich stuffs of such color as not to increase
the look of size. Tall women should avoid
stripes, short ones should avoid plaids.
Dress should be made decorative as well as
necessary. It is a woman’s duty to dress
becomingly, at all times, and as well as
her circumstances will allow. Much taste
can be shown in the wearing of clothing
be the material never so poor. Where a
style of dress is particularly becoming, it
should be adopted without regard to fashion,
in as much as it is comfortable and health-
ful. Any costume which is suggestive of
stiffness cannot be beautiful. As the body
should have the free use of all the mus-
cles, grace of motion is a finer quality than
faultless proportion, and shonld never be
sacrificed to it. A woman may have a bad
form,but she can so fashion her wearing ap-
parel, as to make herself graceful. No woman


with a proper regard for the beautiful, will
allow herself to follow a fashion which not
only deprives her of grace, but of that
greater necessity—health.
					M. B. HANSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VERY PLEASANT VISIT.

Editor Exponent:

	WE take pleasure in submitting a brief
report of an exceedingly pleasant visit to
the branches of the Relief Society of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion.
	We left Ogden on the morning of Oct.
23, and arrived at Spring City shortly after
seven in the evening, where we were
cordially welcomed and pleasantly enter-
tained by Sister Mary A. Hyde widow of
the late Apostle Orson Hyde, She is
President of the Relief Society of the Stake
and though seventy-eight years of age we
find her remarkably well preserved, bright
and active in her duties, anxious to do, or
say anything to promote the cause of truth.
	Here we met Sister Minerva W. Snow
(widow of the late Apostle Erastus Snow)
who is also over seventy years of age, but
like Sister Hyde she is lively and energetic,
and a very useful woman in her calling as
first counselor to Sister Hyde. Sister Snow
is engaged in Temple work also and seems
to be very much respected by the people of
the Stake; and here we will state of Sister
Jane S. Richards the official visitor who
has gained much renown in Relief Society
work, that notwithstanding more than
seventy winters have come and gone leav-
ing traces of their presence, still they have
not blighted her life-giving energies, but
seem rather to have increased her capacities,
and opened avenues for doing good. Here
we have three noble women each wives of
Apostles, each over seventy years of age,
each presiding over Relief Society, Stake
organizations and each honoring her calling
in a praiseworthy manner.
	A very enjoyable part of our time was
spent in listening to the recital of the varied
experiences of these three exemplary wo-
men. Coming into the Church at an early
date they were privileged to come up with
the church through much tribulation.
Bravely and well have they borne their
cross and felt to exclaim "It is good to be a
Saint of Latter-day." In their early lives
they forsook worldly pleasures and ambi-
tions, choosing rather to honor God and His
cause "He hath not forgotten their age."
A beautiful example for the young ladies
of our day.
	At Sister Hyde's we became acquainted
with Sister Willardson President of the
Y. L. M. I. Association of the Stake. This
is an age marked for the lack of veneration,
but Sister Willardson is certainly an ex-
ception to the general rule. Much praise
is due her for her becoming manner in look-
ing after the comfort and welfare of the
elderly ladies; aided by her first counselor
Sister Cox they succeeded in making the ap-
pointments for meetings, introducing us in
homes where we were made comfortable,
and attending to the general business be-
sides driving a team from place to place
where there were no railroad connections.
They held meetings conjointly with the
Relief Society but always paid due rever-
ence to the senior society. They seemed to
seek motherly advice, and the mothers will
ever intercede Divine Grace in their behalf
that they may be made equal to every task.

[Column2]
We held meetings in Spring City, Mil-
burn, Indianola, Fairview, Moroni, Foun-
tain Green, Wales, Chester, and Ephriam.
The meetings were well attended, an excel-
lent spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion given which seemed to be well re-
ceived. The main subjects spoken upon
were "Honoring the Sabbath Day," "The
Healing Power," "Fasting and Prayer,"
Morality, Education of Girls, Duties of
Parents, Habits, etc.
	At Ephriam we had the pleasure of the
acquaintance of Brother Canute Peterson,
(President of the Stake) and his genial
companion. We partook of their hospitality
and enjoyed their company very much.
They are devoted to the cause and faithful
laborers in that part of the vineyard.
	By the courtesy of Sisters Snow, Peter-
son, and Willardson we were taken to
Manti; shown through the beautiful Temple,
had a view of its surroundings and the
country round about from the lofty towers
of the magnificent edifice, a scene never to
be forgotten; language would fail to ex-
press our feelings of gladness, or the
grandeur of that Holy Sanctuary, hence
we attempt no description but content our-
selves by saying like one of old "It is good
to be there."
	Time and space forbid our mentioning
names of our entertainers, Bishops of
wards, Presidents of various Associations
of the places we visited, but suffice it to
say that in each place we were treated with
the utmost courtesy, and we felt the genial
glow of welcome wherever we went which
has endeared the people of Sanpete to us
for we truly felt that there we met brothers
and sisters in very deed.

Respectfully,
R. E. MOENCH.
Ogden City, Nov. 4th, 1894.


[Column 1]
OUR TRIP TO UINTAH.

	In connection with Sisters M. A. Freeze
and May Anderson having been called to
visit the sisters organizations in Uintah
Stake, also Wasatch Stake, we left our home
Wednesday Morning September twelfth, 
took the eight o’clock train for Park City,
arriving there before eleven oclock. En-
joyed the ride very much up Parley’s Canon;
we expected to hold meeting in Park City
but were disappointed because of the Bishop
and Counselors being absent from home.
Brother Oakes, our teamster, not reaching 
until evening, we could not leave for Heber
until morning, we met with very kind 
friends who did all they could for us put-
ting up at Brother and Sister Rasband’s;
when we arose next morning the snow was
about two inches deep which did not look
very encouraging, but we started traveling
through a twelve mile canyon, then entered
the beautiful little valley of the Wasatch;
we were very kindly received, but were
discouraged on every hand, about going to
Ashley in the storm, but be assured we did
not feel like returning, until our mission
was filled. Thursday afternoon a Stake 
Conference was appointed for Monday,
which we expected to attend on our return, 
but waiting for the weather to clear up so
as to proceed on our journey. Friday our
friend Brother Brown, of Charleston, took
us to visit the warm-springs at Midway, of
which there are many, in pot shape, one
being a very large one. Saturday after-
noon we held three meetings in Midway,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary, we did have an excellent time; 
Bishop Watkins and wife entertaining us
very kindly. Sunday we attended two ex-
cellent meetings in Charleston, putting up
at Bishop Nymphas Murdock’s, had a splen-
did visit	Monday we attended three
meetings in the stake house, in Heber
City, the building certainly is a credit to
the place; President Hatch attended the
afternoon meeting and treated us so kindly.
Many a noble Saint did we find in Wasatch
Stake, Brother Bridge and wife did all in 
their power to make our stay pleasant, also
Brother and Sister Brown, Sister Emma
Brown is the Stake President. Tuesday
eighteenth, the weather having cleared up
and Brother Oakes, our teamster’s children
having sufficiently recovered, we left Heber
for Vernal, Brother and Sister Brown ac-
companying us, which we appreciated very
much; we ascended over the top of the
Wasatch mountain through a fourteen
mile canyon, then through Strawberry
valley on through the roughest roads that
could be imagined a continual going up
and down mountains, crossing rivers four
times, also the bad lands and well may they
be called “bad lands” for sixty miles not
a sage brush or a grease wood, yet our
teamster knowing the road so well, managed
each night to find a nice camping ground.
	Friday night we camped on the east
side of Fort Du Chesne on the river’s
edge.
	Saturday, twenty-second, one o’clock
p. m., we arrived in Ashley and found 
many warm hearted Saints to greet us, but
regretted very much to find Brother Oakes, 
our teamster’s father, very ill. Sunday
we attended the Relief Society Conference,
two meetings, crowded houses. Monday
the Young Ladies’, Tuesday the Primary
Association; after the afternoon session, we 
organized a W. S. Association with Sister 
Stringam as President an excellent spirit
prevailed throughout, we also blessed
several sick and did all that we could to
comfort and bless, but we regretted very
much that our stay could not be longer,
among those good true Latterday Saints
that know so well how to appreciate the
blessings of the Gospel, being so far away
from the Center Stake. Uintah County is
situated in a beautiful little valley eight by
twenty miles with Greene and Ashley
rivers running through; the climate is ex-
cellent and the products cannot be surpassed.
Brother James Hacking last year raised
very near three thousand pounds of honey
and this year over three thousand pounds
and the fruit is fine. Brother Strinham
has a five acre vineyard with different
varieties of grapes. We left Vernal on our
return trip Thursday morning, 27th, hav-
ing had a very happy time with the dear
Saints there, we traveled on camping four
nights each way, Sunday night we camped
in a heavy snow-storm half way down
Daniels Canyon. Monday morning we
breakfasted at Brother Jacobs at the mouth
of the canyon, they made us feel very 
much at home, we hurried on to Heber
City (having parted with Brother and Sis-
ter Brown) took leave of the good Saints
there, hurried on to Park City, took the
train for home, reached Salt Lake City
seven p. m., thankful to find all well at
home, taking it altogether having had a 
very pleasant trip.
	Yours with kindest regards,
					E. J. STEVENSON


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN OCTOBER.

  		BIRTHDAY THOUGHTS.

GOLDEN and brown October, with its gently fall-
	ing leaves
Its spirit calm and peaceful soothes the heart
	that grieves;
The glorious Indian Summer, with its ruddy sun-
	sets rare,
Breathes of another summer, its flowers beyond
	compare
Bloom by the living waters, unplucked by mortal
	hand—
Many dear and loved ones have hastened to that
 	“Land.”
Dear is brown October, to a mother’s loving
	heart
Whose nestlings came this beauteous time, to 
	share in life a part,
The ruddy sunsets speak of joy, your birthdays
	came you know,
And o’er again I live the days, now past so long
	ago,
Then in my arms I held you all, and looking in
	your eyes
Saw the light of angels, you’d left beyond the
	skies.
But the year’s not all October, for snowy days
	soon came,
And resting close in warm embrace, the sunsets'
	not the same,
Within the hallowed circle of a loving earthly
	home,
You chirped and smiled and laughed in glee ’till
	other sunsets shone,
And so Octobers came and went, for your birthdays
	every year,
I decked your cakes with roses red, and kissed
	the childish tear.
But, alas, the bright October, brings birthdays
	two for me,
Of darlings loved so tenderly, whom now I can-
	not see,
Up in the grassy hillside, among the silent dead
I sit beside your lonely beds, but tears I cannot
	shed,
Looking over to the westward, the sun in glory
	shines
And slowly sinking o’er the. Lake, with crimson
	cloud combines.
It is a glorious promise, of another beauteous
	day
I bind it in my heart and sorrowing turn away:
O, Father in the future, now hidden by thy hand
When on the brink of life, feebly tottering I
	stand,
Grant that an Autumn sunset, with its red and
	gold between
May welcome me to the ‘‘Better Land,” where
	my nestlings long have been.
	LYDIA D. ALDER.
October 15th, 1894.


[Column 1]
WOMEN AND VOTING.

	BY LOUISE CASTLE WALBRIDGE.

WHAT! Shall the women vote? No! no!
We cannot, will not have it so;
Our mothers sweet, our sisters, wives,
Whose graceful charms delight our lives,
They mingle at the polls with men?
No! no! 'Twould make them masculine.
The farmer's wife, as we all know,
Must sow the garden, weed and hoe,
Must care for pigs, and milk the cow,
And even cultivate and plough.
The babe may cry with all his might—
Mamma must work—and that’s all right.

[Column 2]
But should she don her hat and gown,
And take the car to go to town
To cast her ballot—dreadful thought!—
A transformation would be wrought.
Ah! never more to cook or sew,
To sweep or dust, or wield a hoe.
In rags her lord, her children, too,
As we have often said to you.
A man, of course, is no such shirk,
For he can vote and keep at work,
And woman must less faithful be
If suffrage brings calamity.
In social life she may delight,
Absorbed in it from morn ’til night,
While leaving home for help to keep,
The babes to cry themselves to sleep;
We’ll not complain. That’s woman’s sphere,
Always allowed since we’ve been here.
But should she once in public speak,
A voice in legislation seek,
Or take an interest in the schools,
And ask to enter where man rules,
’Tis time for her to understand
That these things we alone command.
All who would vote to war must go,
At duty’s call, for man does so, 
And braves the ills of camp and field, 
Until the foe is made to yield.
No coward he; his man he’ll shoot;
He’ll go—or send a substitute.
The women not in war, I say?
Forget, indeed, that happy day
The wounded felt their gentle touch,
The sick, for whom they did so much,
Fatigue and danger both defied,
To serve the country at their side.
History has its tales to tell
Of queens who ruled their people well,
Yet rich in traits of heart and mind 
Revered by man in womankind;
But these are fables, it must be,
imposed on our credulity.
We must admit, in England’s queen
A noble woman we have seen, 
A bright example all her life
As faithful mother, loving wife,
Though she has reigned for fifty years,
Well versed in state-craft, wise as peers.
There’s Mrs. Howe, and Lucy Stone,
And hosts of workers as well known,
So gracious, womanly and sweet,
The world pays homage at their feet, 
Their lives attuned to this broad creed—
Home first, then thought for all who need.
It cannot be that we wise men
Mistaken all these years have been,
In thinking with so much alarm
That woman could but lose her charm
If she began to legislate,— 
For that is why we hesitate.
—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

		S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	S. L. Co. W. S. A., held its regular
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Sept. 18,
President Elizabeth MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Do what is right.” Prayer
E. M. Price. A motion was made and
carried, that we hold an informal meeting. 
Very interesting and instructive impromptu 
remarks were made by several of the ladies
and much information gleaned. Adjourned
’till October. 

S. L. Co W. S. A.  Meeting held Oct.


16th, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Presi-
dent E. MacFarlane in the chair. Sang,
“New America.” Prayer by Ruth M.
Fox. Roll called and minutes of Sept.
read and approved. Second Vice President
E M. Price read from the Woman's Column
the article entitled “A war upon Woman.”
Made many good remarks. Dr. Ferguson
spoke upon Home Industry, thought it
ought to be much better sustained, referred
to the sewing class established by Mrs.
Jennings, said merchants had promised to
take the work, if we could compete with
the Eastern market; also spoke upon the
responsibility resting upon those who will
take part in framing the Constitution, we
should not allow party feeling to interfere
at all in this great undertaking. Alluded to
the need of women in prisons where wo-
men were committed for offences, thought
there should be matrons in all jails and such
like institutions. Mary E. Bassett was in
favor of what Dr. Ferguson had said, also
thought that capital punishment was right.
	Ruth M. Fox thought she would like to
study both sides of the political question
before she could decide which party she
could vote with, thought if we could have
some one like Dr. Ferguson to teach us, we
should learn qnicker. Third Vice Presi-
dent Julia Druce was in favor of Capital
Punishment, “A life for a life” the Bible
says. Ella Hyde was not afraid to state
she was a Democrat, did not like protection
unless all could be protected. President
McFarlane thanked Dr. Ferguson for giv-
ing us such a very able address. Thought
more ladies who were well posted should
attend these meetings and give us the bene-
fit of their intelligence. Adjourned ’till
November.
					M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


SARAH GRAND says she received only
$984 for the manuscript of the “Heavenly
Twins.” She lives now in Kensington, a
suburb of London. Her married name is
Mrs. C. R. McFall.
	THE women of Lynn, Mass., have
formed themselves into an organization to
be known as “Women Voters.” They
propose to take a lively interest in school
matters this fall.
	MRS. SARAH B. COOPER, of California,
and her daughter, Miss Cooper went to St.
Louis, in October, to attend a Directors’
Meeting of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs, of which Mrs. Cooper is
treasurer. Mrs. Cooper and her daughter
are to extend their trip to Savannah,
Augusta, Chattanooga and Memphis, the
early home of Mr. and Mrs. Cooper. For
many years Mr. Cooper was editor and
proprietor of the Chattanooga Advertiser,
Mrs. Cooper being associated with him in
the work. Being loyal to the Union, they
left for the North at the opening of the
war, remaining in Washington until Mem-
phis was taken by the Federal troops, when
President Lincoln appointed Mr. Cooper as
assessor of internal revenue at Memphis.
During the war Mrs. Cooper had a Bible
class of over five hundred soldiers in that
city. Mrs. Cooper and her daughter have
in charge thirty-eight free kindergartens in
San Francisco, with an annual enrollment
of over 3,500 little children, from two to
seven years of age. Over $450,000 have
been raised by Mrs. Cooper, in endowments
and otherwise, for this work, which was
organized by her over fifteen years ago.
Ex.


204
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-montnly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra, for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Late City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL TO WOMEN.

	THE November election on which so
much depended for the future good and
well being of Utah has come and gone, the
votes have been cast for the men nominated
to office; the winning side is very exultant
as a consequence and naturally enough made
itself hilariously jubilant at the ratification
meetings and procession on the 13th, of
this month. The most important matter
decided at the election, at least for women
who are asking for the franchise, was the
election of Delegates to the Constitutional
Convention; and indeed it does seem that
it was the more important to all the people
of the Territory. These are the men who
hold the future destiny of this glorious
mountain region in their grasp for a time
at least. What manner of men should they
be to occupy so responsible a position?
First of all honest, truthful, upright, God-
fearing men, patriotic to the heart’s core,
sound in judgment, firm in integrity to
their country’s cause, as the everlasting
hills. Men who honor womanhood, men
who are progressive in all directions that
advance the interests of the human race,
men who are above partisanship, who be-
lieve in equality and justice for all regard-
less of the conditions of sex.
	From this time forward it should be their
sacred duty to inquire into the subjects
with which they will have to deal when
they enter upon the active performance of
their labors as framers of a Constitution.
They must come prepared, or success will
not crown their efforts, strive as they may;
they owe this to the people, who have
chosen them from among their fellows, and
the country they serve, and whose interests
they are bound to sustain, by the laws they
may help to make for future use, service,
and protection of rights.
	Every daughter of Utah should be as
zealous for liberty and as proud of the
birthright upon her soil as her sons; and
should understand the obligations of her
heritage and maintain that dignity and
equality in common with her brothers,
seeking to comprehend all the grave ques-
tions at issue, that she may be fully equip-
ped for the use of the ballot, and the ad-
vantages that accrue therefrom to all those
who take part in the political questions
that agitate the general public, more par-
ticularly at a time like the present when
uncertainty and doubt seem to cause even
great men and strong men to hesitate and
fluctuate, scarce knowing what is the best
policy to pursue, or what measures—to
adopt.

[Column 2]
	There never has been a time when wo-
men need be so awakened to public duty
as the present, not only here but every-
where; it is the cry of the age, and we hear
from day to day, lo here, and lo there, what
brave women are doing in battling against
wrong.
	Then shall we, who have such grave
matters pending fall asleep, and be at ease,
leaving the molding of our own and our
children’s lives and fortunes to men alone?
Verily, No! the mother element is needed in
the new Constitution about to be made, the
womanly intuition so quick to discern, so
prophetic and so inspirational should be
brought to bear in all possible ways. It is
a pity that all the women of this fair Ter-
ritory do not stand solid for the right of
franchise as Mrs. Livermore has so aptly
and emphatically said, “I lack language in
which to express my sense of reprobation
of the course pursued by those women who
from their soft and easy homes, where they
are anchored in the love of manly husbands,
enter the arena of public life only to beat
back their sisters, who seek larger op-
portunities than suffice for themselves; who
make their own opinions and wishes the
measure of all women’s needs, and cry out
to legislatures and courts, parliaments and
congresses; ‘Hold, enough! Concede to wo-
men no more of their demands, for we have
all the rights we want.”
	But circumstances sometimes change;
women who sit in luxury and at ease now,
may at some future time need for their own
defence and protection, or mayhap for their
little ones, the right they would now fain
deny to those less fortunate.
	The women of Utah had the ballot
wrested from them without adjudication,
and no redress has ever been offered for
that wrong. It would be but a simple act
of justice for that wrong done in the past,
to restore the right of franchise now. At
any rate so far as we are concerned
individually and with the largest influence
possible to exert, we shall work, and pray
upon the affirmative.
	We are proud to believe, that Delegates
who will constitute the coming Convention
will honor the women of the State, by
bestowing upon them this precious boon
which represents so much to every citizen,
and of which not one of these Delegates
would be deprived without protest or hav-
ing recourse to the law. To us there seems
no other reasonable side to this question;
if "taxation without representation is
tyranny” then women are suffering from
that tyranny. We are living today in the
higher civilization, and the greater advanc-
ment depends as much upon women as up-
on men. The learned and great Canon
Kingsley said, "Never will women have
social equity, till they have legal equality.”
At least give the women of Utah this op-
portunity to test their fidelity to the state
they have helped to make out of the barren
desert. Victor Hugo’s prophecy is daily
coming to its fulfillment "the nineteenth
century belongs to woman.”
	Women should not lose one advantage,
but work tactfully and industriously, the
cause is worthy of the best directed and
most earnest endeavors. Lose no time in
converting by the most sublime reasoning
or persuasive eloquence all within your
reach who will lend a listening ear. Make
every strenuous effort possible to educate the
general public, circulate suffrage literature
among your neighbors and friends, Re-

[Column 3]
member even after the Constitution is
adopted by the Convention it has to be
voted upon, and if you can convince one
man, to vote right on this momentous
question, the labor will not have been in
vain.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG'S Post Office
address will be for the present at her own
residence 147. 4th, St. Salt Lake City.
	WE published in a recent issue of the
EEPONENT the Call for the second triennial
session of the National Council of Women.
This will be a very important gathering and
an event worthy of record in the history of
this nation. The assembly itself is com-
posed of great organizations, and the Presi-
dent of each of these is a Vice President of
the Council. The influence of such an as
semblage of cultured and educated women
coming from all parts, East, West, North
and South, must have immense weight,
especially when the topics to be presented
are of broad general interest. Every or-
ganization is greatly benefitted from its
connection with the Council, because its
work is brought before large audiences of
women and of men working along all lines
of advancement and progression. The
Council holds its session in Washington D.
C. and during the sessions of the Congress
of the Nation, this also gives it prestige.
The session opens on Feb. 17, 1895, and
closes on March 2nd, 1895.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and (the secretary) of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake, are
hereby officially notified to carefully prepare
correct statistical and financial reports for
the current year from January 1st—1894 to
December 31st—1894. These reports must
be forwarded to the General Secretary at
the Office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah, early in February
1895 or not later than the 10th, of that
month, so that a complete report of this
great organization may be ready at least ten
days before the General Conference in April
1895.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


A FEW RFEECTIONS.

	THEY that feared the Lord spake often
one to another and the Lord hearkened and
heard and a book of remembrance was kept,
and they are mine saith the Lord when I
shall make up my jewels.
	These sweet and cheering words often as-
sist our desires and help us to perform our
duties amidst all our frailties and em-
barrassments.
	I have just been reading the 12th, 13th,
and 14th, Chapters of Romans. Verse 11—
chapter 13 reads, “And that knowing the
time, that now it is high time to awake
out of sleep; for now is our salvation
nearer than when we believed."
	Verse 12, chapter 14, “So then every one
of us shall give account of himself to God,”
this promps us truly to awake and to try to
be faithful in all things. I appeal to my-
self and to my sisters, to regard the sacred
teachings at our recent Conferences and


other meetings of late, is it not direct to us
from the Lord?
	Our brethren truly are watchmen upon
the walls, and we as Mothers in the Relief
Society have our duties, and they are not a
few, but many, for none of us liveth unto
himself or herself and each one has a por-
tim to bear and to endure. Verse 12,
Chapter 12, gives great encouragement
to the devout; it reads, “Rejoicing in hope;
patient in tribulation; continuing instant
in prayer;” let us my sisters be instant in
prayer, but to be so we must also keep al-
ways in good works, first to sanctify these
temples of ours; and to do our duties in the 
family relation, to implant integrity and
virtue in our children; this is most essential
the whole world over, and with what
zealous care should we guard our sons and
daughters, that they may abstain from vice
and folly of every kind. Intelligence is a
stronger safeguard than ignorance. How
profitable our prayer meetings were to us in
the rise of the Church, and again is not our
very strength strengthened by prayer, our
love increased, that we can do our duty and 
fulfill the law to love our neighbors as our-
selves. Let each Relief Society every where
pray to our Heavenly Father to protect our
youth from evil, temptation and sin. Joseph
Smith the Prophet said it was the calling of
the Relief Society to suppress vice. Let
us humble ourselves in prayer and good
works, to check vice and evil in every way,
and to encourage every good and noble
principle with cheerfulness trusting in God
for He will hear the humble supplications
of the meek and pure in heart; seek wis-
dom, treasure the gems of knowledge con-
cerning the truth that God has spoken from
the heavens to the inhabitants of the earth
again in this day and age of the world.
Was there ever a people on the earth that
was so thoroughly and kindly taught the
principles of salvation and righteousness,
that happify and satisfy the mortal and im-
mortal, as that we have received, the 
Gospel of Eternal life or lives.
	My dear sisters there are many profitable
sayings in Paul’s Epistle to the Romans,
that will bear reading again and again, and
that we can apply in our every day lives.
	I will close these reflections by referring
to the song—
“Nay! speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Will never leave a sting behind;
	And O. to breath each tale we’ve heard
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”
Z. D. H. Y.
Oct. 31--1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.  
	ACCORDING to a special call the Utah
Woman’s Press Club held a business meet-
ing at the office of President E. R. Shipp
on Tuesday evening, Oct. 30th, 1894, the
object being the annual election of officers.
	Most of those in office having served
but one year, were re-elected, thus making
but few changes in the list. They are now
as follows—
	Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp M. D., First Vice
President, Ruth M. Fox; Second Vice
President, Lydia D. Alder; Recording
Secretary, Lizzie S. Wilcox; Asst. Rec.
Secretary, Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Sec. R. B.
Pratt M. D.. Ass’t Cor. Sec., Olea Shipp.
Treasurer, C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe
C Young. Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman
Program Committee,

[Column 2]
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P.
Club was held on Wednesday, Oct. 31st,
and as that is anniversary day and also
Halloween, it has been the custom to have
the regular program set aside, and a special
one prepared for the occasion. There have
been some unique and pleasing entertain-
ments in the past, but it is thought the last
one rather surpassed former efforts.
	Each member present endeavored either
by costume or symbol, to represent some
author or literary character she had chosen.
In answer to her name, she arose, and the
other members or visitors made a guess as
to the character represented, the guess be-
ing confirmed or otherwise by the senti-
ment given or the selection read.
	History, literature and fable w[-]re repre-
sented. In some cases the costumes were
original and striking, and in some in-
stances beautiful.
	The characters represented were as fol-
lows:—Dr. E. R. Shipp, Portia, in judicial
robes, where she makes her speech before
the judge, beginning “The quality of mercy
is not strained,” etc. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
dressed in various gaudy colors, which is
said to be characteristic of Dickens, her
author, represented Sergeant Buzfuz. Miss
Gladys Woodmansee, Hypatia, in Roman
Costume. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde adorned
with fern leaves and fern covered fan,
represented Fanny Fern. Dr. R. B. Pratt, 
dressed as a nun, read from Longfellow’s
Evangeline; and by a coincidence Mrs.
Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S. Wilcox chose
to represent Lucile as a nun, even hitting
upon the same selection for reading. But
the matter was remedied by one of the
ladies choosing another selection. Mrs. C.
C. R. Wells in white attire, represented
Wilkie Collins “Woman in White.” Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans, sang
very sweetly a song of that lady’s pro-
duction. Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, by a
symbol represented Browning, and recited
with much dramatic force Mrs. Browning’s
“Mother and Poet.” Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
with powdered hair, lace cap, and imitation
snowflakes, represented Mrs. Eliza R.
Snow, with appropriate selections. Mrs.
Melissa Wilson, with white gown and flow-
ing hair represented Perdita from Shakes-
pere, “A Winter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson, with full blown roses, repre-
sented “Rose in Bloom.” Mrs. Nellie C.
Taylor gave a pleasing representation of
Lucretia Mott in her quaint and simple
Quaker garb. Miss Olea Shipp revived
pleasant memories by appearing as the
Bohemian Girl, and playing choice selec-
tions from that opera. Miss Ellis Shipp
looked picturesque in her cream-colorad
gown bedecked with birds and feathers of
brilliant hue, as she recited Longfellow’s
“Birds of Killingworth.” Miss Pearl
Russell was very sweet as Little Red Rid-
inghood and she gave a charming little
solo from that opera.
	After the character delineations, a sum-
mary of the year’s work by Mrs. L. D.
Alder showed that progress had been made
and improvement was still sought.
	The formal part of the program being
ended, refreshments and social chat ensued.
Both visitors and members felt they had
spent a pleasant and profitable evening: the
one regret being the absence, through sick-
ness, of Honorary President E. B. Wells,
whose presence contributes so much to the
success and pleasure of the meetings.
			LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


IN RURAL, ENGLAND.

XLIII.

	THE fact of the children’s company and
Clair Hilliard the favorite, their guest,
modified to Mr. and Mrs. Harrison the
hardship of leaving the green lanes of
England, and of the sea voyage later on;
 Clair’s brilliant conversation, his versatility
of subjects, (his slight foreign accent
making him all the more interesting) above
all his wonderful voice, that never failed to
thrill the listener, and such charms of man-
ner as are specially delightful, and what
can be more so than the magic of music.
The poet was right in saying,
“Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,
To soften rocks or bend a knotted oak.
I’ve read that things inanimate have moved,
And as with living souls have been informed
By magic numbers and persuasive sound.”
All who have ever crossed the briny
deep, or sailed athwart the bosom of the 
restless sea, must know how rapturously
the human soul is thrilled with the soft
sweet strains divine, that move the human
heart to its very depths, and cause it
	To soar aloft on wings, of ecstacy,
	Lost in the dreams of pure felicity.
	Clair had inherited the talent of that
talian singer, who had carried captive bril-
liant and appreciative audiences wherever
she appeared in p.ublic. The only defect
Jane Harrison could find in her charming
cousin was his peculiarly, languid, Southern
manner and temperament, which to the
true-born English woman is not par ex-
cellence, in that it lacks the heroic quality
of strength so admirable in man. Day
after day and night succeeding night, Clair 
played and sung, sometimes in language
not understood, but sympathetic in rhythm
and suited to his mood, to the enraptured
listeners on board the good ship Darien.
He never wearied of the children either but
tended and watched over them with gentle
solicitude. Rob Harrison was in most re-
spects the very opposite of Clair Hilliard
strong and stalwart in figure and bearing,
and a veritable hero of battles in the proud
chivalry of knighthood, which makes a man
more attractive in the eyes of women than
tamer qualities, however excellent. He 
loved children but could not unbend to
them, and had not the adaptability that
seemed so natural to Clair.
	Another distinct type of manhood was
exemplified in Sidney Barrington, who was
as useful in his way as Clair, and these two
young men so widely different had already
become fast friends. He preached occasional
sermons not long and wearisome but plain
and scriptural, and his prayers were eloquent
with fervor and simplicity. His conver-
sation was in striking contrast to his uncle,
and the young Baronet, but fitted in deftly,
setting off their greater brilliancy to good
advantage with the grave, more serious,
and somewhat pathetic truths of everyday
life and its high duties.
	What a grand opportunity this sea voyage
was for a mind like Jane Harrison’s, and
how she feasted her soul and drank in the
variety and volume of knowledge as it fell
like clear cut diamonds from the lips of
these thorough-bred highly-cultivated men.
it stamped her soul indelibly with lofty
sentiments', that could not fail to be inherit-
ed in her posterity, though of this she
thought not, nor had the awakening come
which has since developed such far reach


[Column 1]
ing consequences. The glorious evenings
when the stately ship sailed ever onward,
the murmur of the ever restless sea, and the
silvery tones of delicious music floating
over the vast expanse of waters, the pale
moon shedding its healing, lustreless rays of
calm serenity, and the million stars set like
jewels in the firmament made a picture set
to music which was in siriking contrast to
the stirring events of her past life. But
when the ocean waves rose mountains high,
and the great ship reeled and plunged, and
the sea bounding and roaring tumultuously
as though the demons of the depths below
were exulting hilariously at the raging of
the elements, she knew no fear; it seemed
the very counterpart of the stormy and ag-
gressive years of her life when she lived at
Hilliard Castle. Now she had entered on
another phase in the wonderful drama of
earthly existence, and it is not strange that
she contemplated with inward anxiety the
destiny of the beings so much beloved who
hovered around her, and looked up to her
as though she were the keeper of their
consciences.
	Her cousin Clair's future she could not
solve; it was enveloped in doubt, he had
met many beautiful maidens, but his heart
she felt was still untouched by the magic
wand of love. Sidney her husband's
nephew (who called her Aunt Jane now,
like Anna's children) would undoubtedly
marry a sweet, angelic, Puritan girl, and
never leave the country of his adoption;
and there was Maitland too, she thought of
him almost with terror; O how Anna had
loved him, her imperious consin, and here
were his children, what would their fate be?
She sometimes longed to know, yet scarcely
dare conjecture. Her own boy, her be-
loved Conway, he would always be under
her sheltering care, and possibly follow the
profession of his father, for even now
she could preceive the drift of his boyish
pursuits tended in that direction.
	What a brave grand, true woman she
was this erst, uninteresting, orphaned, poor
clergyman's daughter.
	When the llttle party reached the New
England shore Clair could not believe his
cousin Jane really felt the joy she expressed,
his nature was so different; he had
wandered up and down and round about in
many lands, but never to think of any
place as home not even temporarily, Hil-
liard Castle was very well while his friends
were there, and he newly installed, but to go
there and live alone, and be like other
English gentlemen he could not do that.
	"Cousin Jane this is too cold a climate
and the wilderness all around is like a
desolation to me, I must have more life,
more warmth, I can't stand these Puritans,
I don't mean Sidney, he is companionable,
but even Uncle Rob is getting common-
place in this dull country, and though I
love the children (and sort of idolize my
cousin, excuse the term,) yet I'm afraid I
can't stay here long and I want to ask your
advice, which I shall prlze even more than
Uncle Rob's, because you are so proud of
the Hilliard honor, and so conscientious
in all you say and do, and I suppose I have
more claim upon you really than any living
person, as you were in my father's con-
fidence, and though he never acknowledged
me during his life, I should be glad to do
credit to the name, and there is no one to
look to but you—those musty old lawyers
in London, always eye me suspiciously,
and I have no very clear views of my
own."

[Column 2]
	This wail of Clair's was made one morn-
ing at the breakfast table, Mr. Harrison
and Sidney had gone out on horseback in
the early morning and Clair, as usual, had
come down late and out of sorts; his cousin
Jane was always very attentive and had
noticed of late his dissatisfied manner, and
therefore was not surprised that he should
express a desire to go away; to be sure she
had hoped he would become reconciled to
the new conditions, and accept the faith
which had been such an inspiration to her
and comfort to Lady Anna, but she felt it
was right he should make his own choice
after all, and replied accordingly.
	"My dear cousin whatever course you
decide upon whether to settle down here,
after winding up your affairs in England,
or to live upon the estate there, or to travel
in foreign lands until like your uncle Rob
you weary of it all, or if you feel your
mother's sunny land nearer and dearer, I
shall always hold you dear to my heart and
give you a mother's advice, for you are my
nearest relative now, and for my uncle's
sake who was my protector and my best
friend in adversity, I must strive to aid you
in upholding the family name; but before
I can say more, tell me what you long for
most in life?"
	"I think my greatest ambition at present
is to get away from here, I am doing noth-
ing, I cannot even sing, my sister Anna's
grave is a perpetual source of sorrow and a
reminder of what might have been had she
lived; I must go away—I know the busi-
ness of the estate is in need of better
management, can't we all go and live there,
it seems to me that would be best!"
	"You know Clair my husband would
never live at Hilliard Castle, and as for my-
self I am a Puritan in every sense of the
word, though not so pronounced in some
particulars as my neighbors. I am not an
aristocrat though my uncle and my grand-
father bore distinguished titles; I have the
Hilliard blood inherited from my mother,
but I have not forgotton that she was dis-
inherited for marrying a poor clergyman,
and lived and died in obsenrity."
	Clair replied "you speak bitterly cousin
and I have no reason to laud the aristocracy,
my fault was not my own, I could scarcely
have helped being born, it seems there is a
bond of sympathy between us even more
than blood, and now I plead with you to
show me what I ought to do for the estate,
to make amends for my coming unwelcome
into the word."
	"Really cousin that is too much of a
sarcasm, and you are well aware of your
sister Anna's amiability in the affair, never
arguing the question of your claims to the
heirship; you may be in ignorance of the
fact that my uncle was crossed in love,
previous to his marriage with your mother
and that it affected his whole life afterwards,
were I to tell you the whole history of the
affairs of Sir Edward your father, as they
have come to my knowledge unsought, you
would find it, "a romance in real life."
	"And cousin Jane don't you think it
right for me to know something of my
parentage more than the name and title,
uncle Rob knew Sir Edward Hilliard very
well but would never speak of him, I could
get no information from him while we were
away together, try as I might. Indeed I
have been thinking seriously of going to
Italy and looking up on my mother's side,
I only knew my grandmother; Burke and
Hemenway advised me not to hunt up my
Italian relationship, it might go against me

[Column 3]
in England they thought, especially if I
should want to enter Parliament, which I
never will, I have neither taste or inclina-
tion for it, and my education is all wrong
for that course, in fact I'm more of a
foreigner."
	"Well Clair if you decide to leave us I
perhaps ought to enlighten you somewhat
about my uncle, it might soften you
in regard to your birth and the secret of
your mother's marriage, so carefully kept
during his whole life. But here comes the
strollers we must hear of their morning ad-
ventures."
	Just then Mr. Harrison and Sidney came
in and the conversation then turned upon
Clair's leaving America very soon, Sidney
who was strongly attached to Clair regretted
it exceedingly, but Mr. Harrison thought
perhaps under the changes which seemed
imminent to the country it might be the
wisest course to pursue; he declared there
would soon be a fierce struggle between
England and America, and although Clair
was scarcely an Englishman he did not seem
to incline to the new world, "Clair is not a
warrior bold," he added "in his case it
might be better to run away before the
fight begins, for its sure to come to that,"
and said he with great emphasis "I'm
willing to die for freedom and liberty."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE.
	THE sixty second Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, of Juab Stake, was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 21st,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Choir sang, “The time is nigh,” etc.
Opening prayer, President Paxman.
Singing, “Let those who would be Saints
indeed,” etc. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Mary Pitchforth desired an in-
terest in the prayers of those present.
Spoke at some length on the storing of
grain, and also Home Industry, and said
the prophecies of the servants of God,
would surely come to pass and we did not
know the hour, therefore it behooves us to
be awake to the times, and we must sus-
tain home manufacture, read a piece from
the EXPONENT referring to the same sub-
ject rejoiced in the Gospel, wished bless-
ings upon all present.
	Counselor Hannah Jones felt that we
were going behind instead of advancing in
home-made, she had very mnch enjoyed
the wearing of home-made apparel in
years gone by, thought that we should
patronize home made goods, and although
late in the day, “let us obey the counsel of
early days,” rejoiced every day of her life
that she was associated with this people,
desired health for President Pitchforth and
her Counselor Amy Bigler.
	E. M. Udall, president of the 1st, Ward
of Nephi, represented that ward in excel-
lent condition, referred to the labors of
officers, and members, also to the storing
of grain and home manufacture, bore a
faithful testimony.
	Sang, “Yes we will gather at the river.”
 	S. A. Cazier, Counselor of the Second
Ward of Nephi, represented the ward in
good condition, said the society would be
very little without the aid of the faithful
officers, the Saints had been blessed with
unusual good crops of grain, all should
store a little of that grain away; en-
couraged home manufacture.


[Column 1]
	Sister Miranda Bryan grew stronger
every day of her life in the gospel, referred
to the storing of grain and home manufac-
ture, would be willing to show any of the
young sisters how to spin, she had very
much enjoyed the labor of spinning.
	The Young Ladies should learn how to
be good housekeepers and know how to
make their husbands and families com-
fortable, when they assumed that position
in life, prayed that the Lord would bless us
that we may be able to carry out suc-
cessfully every laudable undertaking.
	Sister Williams, president of Mona Relief
Society, represented the branch in good
condition, were doing all they could in the
storing of grain. 
	Sister Christenson, President Levan
Relief Society, reported the ward in ex-
cellent condition, referred to the storing of
grain and Home Manufacture, desired to be
faithful.
	President Pitchforth was much pleased
with the reports, and the spirit of the sis-
ters, the spirit of the times was Home In-
dustry, felt that we were all willing to obey
counsel, and do all in our power to perform
our part; gave excellent counsel to officers
and members of the society, advised all
that could to attend the General Confer-
ence, that we might partake of the bless-
ings that would be received there. Choir
sang, “O, my Father thou that dwellest.”
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Brother Charles
Sperry, had been very much pleased with
the reports, of the presidents of the differ-
ent wards, spoke well of the organization
of the sisters, did not know how the
Church could do without them; referred to
Home Manufacture, many things could be
raised here that were imported, referred to
home-spun clothing of early days, was not
ashamed of his home made apparel, could
go into any society clothed in it; did not
think we should have a famine here, but
we must be as Joseph of old and prepare
for others. 
	President Mary Pitchforth desired that 
the sisters, all that possibly could, should
subscribe for the EXPONENT and take the
only little paper that had the signs of the
times, it was only one dollar a year, and
should be well sustained. President Pax-
man rejoiced in the unity of spirit mani-
fested by the sisters that had reported, felt
thankful for that spirit, it was not so in all
places, knew that the sisters in this stake
had ever sought for counsel and had been
blessed in their efforts, spoke at length on
the storing of grain, it should be strictly at-
tended to by this people, impressed upon
our minds, the duties required of us, to pay
our fast offerings, that the favor and bless-
ings of God might rest upon us; if this was
attended to it would sustain our poor,urged
upon the Saints to observe this require-
ment; considered Home Industry of the
utmost importance, the time would come
when we would be cut off from other re-
sources we now had, then what would be-
come of us, if we had nothing to fall back
upon, said ask for home made and see that
you get it when making purchases, we
would be surprised to know how much of
home made there is here in Utah. He
felt just as sure as that we were all here
that we would be cut off from Babylon
eventually and we must prepare for it.
Spoke of the EXPONENT said let us sub-
scribe for that paper, that brings the spirit
of the times, endorsed all that had been
said, he was a supporter of home-made

[Column 2]
articles, we must all endeavor to sustain
home-made if we want the blessings of
God, the angels will smile upon us and
God will be pleased with us.
	President Paxman concluded his dis-
course by saying, “God bless you all.”
Sang, “Come, thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Langley
Bailey. Conference then adjourned for
three months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Stake Sec.
		SODA SPRINGS IDAHO.
Editor Womans Exponent:—
	AT Sister Lindsey’s request, I write to
inform yon of the reorganization of the
Relief Society at this place.
	On July 11th, 1894, President Julia
Lindsey Counselors Collins and Hart met
at Soda Springs to reorganize the Relief
Society. Sister Hannah Raymond, being
honorably released on account of failing
health, she had been President of the
society since June 26th, 1879. Sister Ray-
mond was eighty-one years old last March.
She has preformed the labors of President
faithfully while holding the office, and was
unanimously given a vote of thanks by all
the members of the society. Sister
Dorethea Lau was unanimously chosen as
successor to Sister Raymond, with Elizabeth
Rose First and Emma Rudd Second Coun-
selors, Louisa Horsley Secretary, Millie
Campbell Assistant Secretary and Matilda
Horsley, Treasurer.
	Yours Respectfully, 
				ELIZABETH ROSE.
		PRIMARY ORDERVILLE. 
	THE people of Orderville assembled at
the hall to witness the exhibits of the
Primary Fair which was a credit to those
who presided over that Association. It was
a grand sight to see the different specimens
 of needle work, and all kinds of fancy
work, it was surprising to see how many
things were presented at the fair with such
fine taste and was beyond anything that
was anticipated.
	There was a dress cut and made by a
little girl nine years old, that would be a
credit to older ones. There were many
beautiful things made by little hands, it
would be impossible to name them all.
There was a beautiful selection of fruit for
the time of year, and the vegetables made
a grand showing. There were no animals
but some tame rabbits which were exhibited
by Charles Hardy Carroll, and a couple of
sheep which were greatly appreciated by
the little ones. There were beautiful cakes
made by the little girls; little wagons and
other implements of agriculture. The fair
was presided over by the Presidency of the
Primary, Susannah Fackrell. President;
Eliza Fackrell, First Counselor; Kezia
Esplim, Second Counselor; C. A. Carroll,
Secretary. With a Committee of Arrange-
ments who were Amelia S. Carroll, Libbie
Fackrell, Annie E. Fackrell, who were a
great help in arranging the things to ad-
vantage. 
			CLARISSA WILHELM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JEWISH WOMEN.

	The latest accession to the membership
of the National Council of Women of the
United States is a valuable one though it is
a very young organization.


The National Council of Jewish Women
was indirectly the outgrowth of the great
Congress of Representative Women in the
Columbian year but it has already made
good progress and can be said to be truly of
national scope, judging not only by the
territory in which it has officers but by the
value of the names upon its long official
list. Among them are those already known-
in both literary and philanthropic work, as
well as probably in the work of their own
church.
	But the National Council of Jewish Wo-
men, while it is certainly an organization
for the furtherance of its own religious
work, does not confine itself to that in its
statement of purpose as set forth in its own
Constitution, Article II, as follows,
	“The purposes of this organization are:
To bring about closer relations among
Jewish Women, to furnish by an organic
union a medium of communication and a
means of prosecuting work of common
interest, to further united efforts in behalf of
Judaism by supplying means of study, and
in behalf of the work of social reform by
the application of the best philanthropic
thought.”
	It can readily be seen that if. (as has al-
ready been proven to the satisfaction of the
distinctly religious organizations in mem-
bership in the Council), such a grand union
of associations as is the National Council of
Women, advances the interest of each,
then this new Member, which is equally
devoted to religion, philanthropy and the
furtherance of true fellowship among its
constituency, will certainly find its
own hands held up in all its own efforts
in the directions in which it has
begun its work—and the National Council
feels itself strengthened by the accession to
its membership of these earnest Jewish
women with their memories and traditions
reaching back to the time when Miriam
sang the song for the deliverance of her
people and Deborah prophesied their
triumphs, and herself led them to victory.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


DR. HELMHOLTZ, THE GERMAN
		SCIENTIST.

	Dr. Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand
von Heumhoitz, the celebrated German
scientist, the searcher in physics and
physiology, the acknowledged Edison of
the Old World, and the inventor of a score
of instruments which have revolutionized
the surgery of the eye, died recently at
Berlin.
	Helmholtz was born in Potsdam August
31, 1821, and at the age of seventeen en-
tered the Royal Military School in Berlin
and studied medicine there until 1842.
	Professor Helmholtz holds a high place
in medical and scientific circles in Germany
and is famous for his investigations in
optics, acoustics and electricity, which have
established these sciences on a new basis.
The ophthalmoscope is his invention, and
he was regarded as the founder of modern
eye surgery.
	For several years Herr Helmholtz had
devoted himself to the study of electricity,
and his work in this direction was equally
as important as his work in other sciences.
That he was held in the highest esteem by
scientists the world over was shown by the
statement made by a member of the French
Academy during a discussion which in-
volved Professor Helmholtz’s admission to


foreign membership in that body. “You
will place yourselves in the worst light be-
fore the world,” said the Frenchman, “if
you refuse to admit Helmholtz, the fore-
most and greatest naturalist of the age;
nothing is wanting to his glory, but he is
wanting to ours.” Dr. Helmholtz made a 
visit to this country last summer and took
part in the Electrical Congress at the
World’s Fair. On his way home from
Chicago he remained a few days in New
York and delivered an interesting lecture
at the College of Physicians and Surgeons
on ophthalmology
	As an author Professor Helmholtz was
voluminous. His great work which gave
him fame was On the Conservation of
Forces, issued in 1847. Other works were
Manual of Physiological Optics and Theory
of the Impressions of Sound. His Popular 
Lectures on Scientific Subjects, translated
into English by Dr. E. Atkinson, were 
published in London in 1873, and his work
on Sensations of Tone as a Physiological
Basis for the Theory of Music, translated
from the Third German edition by Alexan-
der J. Ellis, appeared in 1875. Professor
Helmholtz also contributed to scientific
journals accounts of many of his experi-
ments in acoustics, optics and electricity.
On December 1st, 1873, the Copley medal
of the Royal Society of London was
awarded to him in recognition of his emi-
nent services to science. More than 120
scientific papers of his have been read be-
fore the Royal Society. In 1883 the Ger-
man Emperor acknowledged the great ser-
vices of Helmholtz by issuing a decree
raising him to “the status of nobility.”
					SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUFFRAGE FIGHT REOPENED.

	THE fall campaign of the Woman Suf-
fragists of New York was opened Thursday
Evening October 4th, by a meeting at No.
4 Lexington avenue. Lillie Devereux
Blake, the president, was in the chair, in-
troduced Mrs. Pitblado, who read a paper,
the subject of which she said was “Not
Things, but Women,” a perversion of the
World’s Fair motto, “Not Things but Men.”
In the reading Mrs. Pitblado paid tributes
to all the great women of the past and
present, telling in what particular walks of
life they had distinguished themselves.
She dwelt particularly upon the women of
this country, and gave some sketches of the
women who were actively interested in the
World’s Fair work.
	It remained for Lillie Devereux Blake to
make the sensation of the evening by her
telling speech on the action of the mem-
bers of the Constitutional Convention on
the question of Woman’s Suffrage. She
began by saying:—
		THEY WERE HOPEFUL.
	“When the last meeting was held in
these rooms in June we all bade each other
goodby with hopeful hearts, for we all felt
certain that we would have to hold but one
more meeting, and that would be for the
purpose of adjourning forever. We felt
that the cause for which we had worked so
earnestly would be successful, and that we
would henceforth be on an equality with
men, and have the right to cast our vote in
the affairs of the State.
	“Alas, we were mistaken! Our cause
was defeated, but not lost.
	“Do not believe but we shall yet succeed,
and we shall fight until we win. We will

[Column 2]
now carry this petition to the Legislature 
and there we are sure to win a victory. I 
have here petitions which I want you all to
take home and send among your friends
that name upon name may be added to the
hundreds of thousands already sent.
	"As soon as the measure had been ad-
versely voted on by the majority of the
members of the Convention the newsboys
of Albany run through the streets crying
out, “Woman’s suffrage murdered!” and,
my friends, it was murdered, it never died
a natural death. It was murdered by Elihu
Root and Joseph Choate.
		SCORED ELIHU ROOT.
	“When Elihu Root made his speech
against woman suffrage he asked the mem-
bers of the Convention if they wanted to
put the ballot in the weak and nervous arms
of women He could say nothing against
the cause, for there was nothing to say; he
only talked and talked and repeated his
question about the weak, nervous arms of
women. I was not aware before that it re-
quired physically strong arms to lift the
folded ballot and deposit it in the box.
	“I wondered if we had all been women
of the iron jaw sort if he would have
thought that a reason for giving us the
right of the ballot. Although we had the
best men of both parties with us, we were
defeated.
	‘‘The majority of those who voted
against us were republicans, while the
democrats stood by us nobly. The majority
of the convention was republican. We
have been asked as an association to help
defeat a certain party in this town. We
are good enough to help defeat men and
measures, but not good enough to help
elect them.
	“Now, I want to say right here, that we
are not going to work against any party.
If we work for any party, it will be for the
one that worked for us.
	Mrs. Blake read a set of resolutions offer-
ing a vote of thanks to the members of the
Convention who voted for and spoke in
favor of woman suffrage.—New York
Herald.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Countess of Aberdeen, during her
recent visit to Halifax gave an “At Home”
and garden party on the magnificent
grounds of the official residence of the Ad-
miral commanding the British squadron in
North American waters. It was the most
brilliant and successful affair of the kind
ever held there. The feature of the func-
tion was the entire absence of wines and
liquors. This is the first time in Canadian
history that the wife of the Governor-Gen-
eral has held a reception without dispensing
liquors, and marks a new era in Canadian
high social life.—Ex.
	FANNITZA ABDUE SULTANA NALIDE is
a fine-looking girl from Beyrout, now
staying at a quiet residence in Brooklyn,
She is the cousin of the wealthiest Arab in
that far-off city, and is known among her
countrymen as “the Syrian princess.” On
the books at Harvard she will be entered as
Miss Alice Azeez, and her object in coming
to this country is manifold. She wishes to
obtain educational honors both here and in
England, and while in America will study
the government, the people, and occidental
methods of doing things. Having done so,
she will return to Syria, where she will
found a monument to the memory of her


father. Her family has for centuries been
a ruling force in the Orient. Miss Azeez
though only 19 years of age, has mastered
the Arabian, Assyrian, Grecian, Latin,
French, German and English languages.
Specimens of her needlework adorn the
shelves of the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, in New York City, and the Peabody
Museum, at Cambridge, Mass.
	SENATOR SCOTT, of Iola, in his Register
pays the following eloquent and merited
tribute to Mrs. Chapman-Catt, one of the
most brilliant exponents of the principle
of woman suffrage.
	We didn’t report Mrs. Catt’s speech last
week simply because we did’nt want to
mention it the same week with the others.
It was a magnificent speech, the strongest
most entertaining and logical appeal for
equal suffrage ever made in Iola. And it
was so choicely worded, so smoothly and
eloquently delivered that her hearers were
charmed as well as instructed and con-
vinced. The speech was full of good
points, but the one that struck us as par-
ticularly well taken was the proposition that
if there is to be any restriction placed on
suffrage, it should begin at the bottom. “If
you don’t want foreign women to vote,
then don’t let foreign men vote. You will
get the best government when you let the
good, the patriotic and the educated wo-
men come to the aid of the good, the
patriotic and the educated men.” We are
sure that if a motion had been put to the
audience that Mrs. Catt be granted the
right of suffrage, it would have carried by
a large majority.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Manti, Oct. 22nd, 1894. Sister Annie
D. Westenskow. Deceased was born at Falster,
Denmark, she embraced the gospel in the year
1863 and emigrated to Utah the same year. She
leaves eight children to mourn her loss.
	She has been associated with the Relief Society
since its first organization, and held office as
Teacher, and Treasurer for ten years. She was
a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, and beloved
by all who knew her; bnt has now gone beyond
the veil to mingle with relatives and friends who
have gone before, and to wear the crown in store
for the righteous.
						A. SORENSON, Sec.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R .K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1894.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:
	Cactus Papers, No, I.—Cactus. Sketch of the
Work of the U. W. P. Club—Lydia D. Alder.
Economy—M. M. Chaucer—Gladys Wood-
mansee. S. L. Co. Convention—Mary E. Irvine.
R. S. and P. A. Reports. Woman Suffrage
Column. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Congress of Representative
Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—I Come—Geranium. Woman’s Free-
dom—W.G. Bickley.


I COME.

TO HYACINTH.
For The Woman’s Exponent:—

I COME, Dear Heart, at thy behest:
	Thou wert so long in saying, "Come!”
I queried if thy soul found rest,
	Or if thy lips were sealed and dumb.
		Oh! joyous, blissful day,
		Like morn in rosy May,
		Which gives thee power  to say,
		“Return, and with me stay!’’ 

	I bring thee back the love and hope,
	Which thrilled our hearts in by-gone hours;
No more mid lonely shadows grope,
	We’ll stroll again through radiant bow’rs
		Thy true hand clasped in mine,
		While beauteous wreaths we twine,
		Of leaf and flow’r and vine,
		Where golden sunbeams shine.

Now that we understand once more,
	The longings which our hearts enfold,
Fair Peace her gladness shall restore,
	With Love’s sweet whispers, as of old.
		I’ll lead thee by pure streams,
		Where light celestial gleams;
		I’m what my presence seems
		The Spirit of thy dreams.
							GERANIUM.


Nov. 3, 1894.


[Column 1]
CACTUS PAPERS NO. 1.

UNBIDDEN THOUGHTS.

[A Chapter of I's and Me's.]
	I BELIEVE I have always been a wo-
man suffragist; but the strange past of it is,
I have never known it, but have remained
in a state of quiescent neutrality for—but I
will not mention how long. I might have
remained in this uninteresting condition for
another interminable lapse of time, had it
not been for a Circumstance, the result of
which has been, that those long hours of
sleeplessness, due to semi-invalidism, which
have hitherto been devoted to the concoc-
tion of impossible romances for the delec-
tation of a long-suffering public, have now
been turned into a new, and I trust, more
laudable channel. I have been led to re-
flect upon the condition of my sex, the

[Column 2]
causes of her troubles, and the best means
of alleviating them.
	But let us retrospect. Why have I so
long remained in ignorance of my true
sentiments, and what has transpired to
arouse me from my lethargy. These are
questions: and a question, says the author
of the above mentioned circumstance is a
proposition having two or more sides to be
considered. The above questions have two
sides, the sudorific and the active.
	In viewing the first, please bear it in
mind that I have never felt myself to be
downtrodden. In the family of which I
am a representative, the female members
have enjoyed as great, if not greater ad-
vantages of education than the males. I 
was never debarred from performing any
act which I considered proper, provided it
came within the limits of possibility. I
have had offices heaped upon me until I
have been sick of the very name of office,
I have engaged in various occupations, open
alike to men and women, and have been
treated well and paid liberally. In my
domestic relations I have enjoyed the ut-
most freedom; nor have I heard any com-
plaint from the other side of the house of
being “hen-pecked.” Above all, it has
been a part of my education, nay, almost
of my religion, from babyhood, to believe
implicitly in the justice, equity, and
liberality of the men of Utah, in their
views relating to my sex. I did not trouble
myself about suffrage, because I felt sure
when the time came that our fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers could exercise that
freedom which is theirs, (and ours) by
divine right, we should stand side by side
with them, not under protest, but as a mat-
ter of course.
	Imagine then, my surprise and conster-
nation when confronted by a flat contra-
diction of all my preconceived notions, in
the form of a learned discourse from a
favorite speaker and esteemed acquaintance,
as he ably set forth the ins and outs of
Constitutions and Constitution—making,
and devoted the last half-hour to a fierce
attack on the evils of woman’s suffrage.
	How wert thou fallen, then, my Utah
heroes! Great and mighty the collapse of
my airy castle; for if there be one tinctured
with the leaven of prejudice, may there
not be tens, nay hundreds, who incline
likewise. Farewell, my ideal Utonian!
like most creatures of the imagination,
doomed to fall to the level of mortality. 
Thou too art now tainted with the odor of
the earth—earthy, and as such must be
dealt with.
	As I listened in open-eyed, almost open-
mouthed astonishment to the revelations
of our learned friend, something stirred
within my heart and brain, something
hitherto dormant; and almost before I was
aware, and true to the reputation of my
sex, I leaped to a conclusion without wait-
ing to examine the reason. I was a wo-
man suffragist before I left the lecture-hall;
I am one still, and the more I reflect upon
it, the stronger grow my convictions.
	So much for cause and effect. Now for
the Circumstance itself.

[Column 3]
	In regard to the exposition of the social
condition of the Eastern States, I have
nothing to say. The gentleman has lived
among the people, and made a
study of the question, so ought
to know whereof he speaks. But his con-
clusions as to the cause of this deplorable
state of affairs, which may be summed up
in the grand finale:
	“Woman suffrage is the wedge which is
rending asunder, disrupting the very founda-
tion of the social fabric,” uttered with a
force and fervor indicative of personal con-
viction, I certainly believe to be erroneous.
	Who ever heard of a revolution which
did not cause a rending apart and disrup-
tion of time-honored customs and opinions?
But for this reason shall there be no more
revolts against cruelty and oppression?
And where in the annals of history can we
find another instance of a revolution world-
wide in its proportions and in its effects.
Without doubt the immediate result is
strife, envy, and contention; but who will
deny that the final outcome will be peace
and prosperity? Only he whose vision is
beclouded with the mists of prejudice and
tradition.
	The war has begun; the fiat gone forth,
and any effort of man to stem the progress
of woman’s emancipation will be equal to
the task of changing the course of a mighty
river. Our opposers have arrayed them-
selves on the losing side, a side that will
reflect no honor upon its adherents. Min-
insters may preach, lawyers may reason,
but the great march of enlightenment will
go on, regardless of their efforts. Women
may cry: “Fie! we have all the rights we
want or need.” Let them revel in their
small sphere. Their children and chil-
drens children will enjoy the fruits of 
emancipation just the same, and while they 
look back with pity or horror on the con-
dition of their grandmothers, they will rise
up and call blessed the memory of those
brave pioneers of equal rights, who dared in
the face of public opinion, to raise the
standard of liberty before a benighted
world.
	“But why,” queried a gentleman to 
whom I expressed these opinions, “why
are you so sure of these things? There are
two sides to a question, you know.”
	For reply, I asked  him to accompany me
back to the Garden of Eden. “There,” he
exclaimed, “like every other woman, you
are going to mix up church and state,
politics and religion.”
	“And what of that?” I retorted, “In
my mind they are inseparable. The only
pure form of government on the earth you
know to be founded upon the purest and
most divine religious principles.”
“He that hath an ear let him hear”
	The most skeptical anti-suffragist will
hardly deny that originally man and wo-
man were created equal; that through dis-
obedience to a divine mandate, they both
fell from their high estate: that a curse was
pronounced upon both, which could only
be removed by obedience to certain laws
given them for that purpose.


[Column 1]
	History reveals how signally man has
failed in keeping his part of the covenant,
except at long intervals when for a brief
season, the pure religion of Christ has held
sway upon the earth. It also shows how
that the stronger vessel has demanded of
the weaker, to the uttermost farthing, the
payment of the penalty passed upon her
for her transgression. “Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee.” For near six thousand years, the
sighs and prayers and heart-yearnings of
His daughters, for something better, have
ascended to the throne of a just and merci-
ful Parent. Doubt not but His ears have
heard, and His heart responded to their
cries. 
	This is an age of marvelous happenings.
It is an age of preparation for something 
better than the world has ever known. It
fore-shadows a time when the trammels of
sin are to be broken, and the results of dis-
obedience done away; when man and wo-
man, by fulfilling a certain law, can be
restored to their pristine glory and exal-
tation.
	Therefore I contend that the movement 
for Woman’s Suffrage presages her release
from the curse placed upon her in Eden;
that it is a sign of the times, as well as is
the restoration of the Gospel, and that to
fight against it, is to array ourselves in op-
position to the purposes of the Almighty.
	The cry is raised against woman enter-
ing the ranks of wage-earners, because she
consents to work at cheaper rates than men
can afford to do who have families depend-
ing upon them. This may be true, but can
any just mind condemn the poor worm from
rebelling, when driven to the last extremity,
and turning to account the very means
which have been used to hold her down, to
further the end of her emancipation. Hun-
dreds of women have been made earnest
equal suffragists for this reason alone, that
they have been expected to do the same
amount of work as a man in as creditable a
manner, and for half the remuneration.
Think not however, that this will be a last-
ing condition. Once installed on a sure
foundation, and woman will demand as high
a price for her labors as any man. The
question of preference will then be one of
capability and integrity, as it should be,
and not of dollars and cents.
	The old plea that the ballot for women
will admit so many immoral women to
power is indeed becoming monotonous.
Let the four times eighty thousand 
prostitute makers of New York City purify
themselves, body and soul and where
would be your eighty thousand prostitutes?
Immorality would die a natural death, and
brothel keepers sink in the ruins of bank-
ruptry.
	Show me the woman, born of virtuous
parentage, who would lead the life of a
prostitute from choice, and you will show
me an anomaly in nature. Where is the
most degraded among them who would not
gladly reform to become the honorable wife
of a reformed and honorable man?
	Ah, my friends, it is social vice and
degradation, not woman’s suffrage, which
has undermined the social structure. It
has befouled the stream and polluted the
fountain of life until it is an eyesore to the
vision and a stench in the nostrils of the
pure in heart. Let the rotten fabric be
rent asunder! let Babylon fall! let fire from
heaven devour its ruins! And from its
ashes, let there arise, like the far-famed
Phoenix of old, a structure “pure as the

[Column 2]
sun, fair as the moon, and terrible as an
army with banners,” to the evil doer of
the future.
	And, if need be, let Woman’s Suffrage
be the wedge which hastens this process of
purification; and let the banner of woman
be foremost in the ranks of those who are
fighting for the annihilation of bigotry and
prejudice and the ushering in of the pure
light of the millenium.
	CACTUS.
	(Read before the St. George Woman’s
Suffrage Association, Nov. 5th, 1894.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF THE WORK OF THE
			U. W. P. CLUB.

		[For the fiscal year 1893---94.]
	THE first meeting, with the new officers,
who were elected Oct. 31st, 1893, was held
Nov. 29th, 1893, at the apartments of the
President Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The subject of the hour “Thanksgiving"
was discussed. An interesting paper en-
titled, “New England Thanksgiving” was
read by the author the retiring President
E. B. Wells, who was elected Honorary
President. Also a paper by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze, on the “Influence of Thanksgiving
on the spiritual being, was read by the
Secretary, both contained many ideas and
different thoughts on the subject. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, one of the Vice Presi-
dents at Large, addressed the Club, stat-
ing the manner of observing Thanksgiving
in Old England. Gave the origin of the
custom in that country, which dated back
to the Druids.
	The subject of Psychology was taken
up during the Spring. Able lectures were
delivered by Dr. Ferguson, Eliza Bennion,
and Gladys Woodmansee. The subject
was pretty thoroughly discussed, much
thought being given to it. All seemed to
understand it better than before.
	In the May Meeting Dr. R. B. Pratt,
read a paper on Theosophy.
	At the June Meeting, an interesting
paper on “Woman’s Clubs,’’ was read by
Mrs. Dickinson. After which President
E. B. Wells, moved that we turn the
meeting, into an informal reception, to
the Countess Wachtmeister, who was
present, accompanied by Mrs. Egbert
Roberts.
	The Countess is a disciple of “Theosophy,’’
and an intimate friend of Mme. Blavatsky,
whose death and fame in this science was
announced in the papers some time ago.
	Being invited to speak, the Countess
said, Theosophy is a great brotherhood, all
religions contain some of its principles.
It has no real organization, and no one is
required to give up his religion, who join
this brotherhood, for all religions have
some truth in them. The Countess desired
the ladies to ask questions. Several of the
ladies availed themselves of this privilege,
the questions being many and varied, which
the Countess answered in a kind and
courteous manner, giving her views, and
such information as she possessed. In this
way a pretty fair understanding was gained
of this subject, but little known in the
West, though so old in the East.
	The Countess was easy and gracious in
her address, and has the power and
eloquence of language at her command.
This interesting evening will long be
remembered by the Club.
	The National Woman’s Press Club, was

[Column 2]
entertained by our Club on its returnfrom the
Pacific Coast. President Wells and Shipp,
with a number of the members, met the
ladies at the Depot, and inviting them into
the drag “Utah,” accompanied them in a
drive over the principal parts of the City.
These ladies were otherwise entertained by
the Club.
	These visitors made honorable mention
of the kindnesses received in Utah, after
their return to the East.
	Aug. 31st, Dr. E. R. Shipp, read an able
paper on Heredity. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson,
followed with an interesting lecture on the
same subject; many deep thoughts and
earnest reflections have been awakened, al-
so some discussion has been indulged in,
on the subjects which have been so
thoughtfully presented to the club.
	Many original poems have been read, al-
so many selected gems of both prose and
poetry.
	Some beautiful recitations have been
given by C. Louise Boyden and others.
	Sentiments from the Poets, both men and
women, have been quoted, also some from
the book of Psalms. Last but not least,
we have had rare music rendered, both
vocal and instrumental, by some of the
members.
	President E. R. Shipp, and E. B. Wells,
have won all hearts by their courteous lov-
ing manner, and now at the close of the
year, we feel that we have indeed been
benefitted, by the organization, and desire
its success in all future years, and that it
may ever be composed of thoughtful
earnest workers.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


ECONOMY.
	ECONOMY in the home is the first step-
ping stone to wealth, happiness and success
in life. It is the doctrine of proportion
brought into practice; children are very
sensitive, they notice how mother does and
if they see her making the best use of
everything they will form habits of saving
which will be a benefit to them in their
future lives. To the poor, economy is in-
dispensable.
	Economy in the husband’s affairs is a
great help to the wife as they should both
try to live according to their income. *	*
Tea coffee and spices are unnecessary
articles and are injurious to health, as well
as a great expense. We should try to live
honestly within our own means. Mothers
should teach their children to be economical
in dress, as they themselves should be;
endless yards of ribbon and lace does not
teach economy but expense. We should
elevate their tender minds with noble
thoughts and good desires. They should
also be taught order in the house as
another attribute leading to economy, we
should have a place for everything and
everything in its place, as economy is far-
seeing contingencies and providing against
them; a word on bread as it is the staff of
life, and without it we would consider our
living very poor; pieces left on the table
after meals, also bread left from one bak-
ing to another should be browned in the
oven a delicate brown, put in a clean sack
and hung in the pantry, this furnishes nice
browned bread for milk toast, or tomato or
other kinds of soup, there are many things
that would be a saving,and a blessing to us,
and no person should despise economy; we


should cut buttons from old clothing, pick
up a pin and put it in a handy place when
needed, we should strive to economise our
time so we can have an hour or two to study
those things which will benefit us as moth-
ers; we should never buy what we do
not want, for if we buy what we do not
want, we will soon want what we cannot
buy. A penny is a small matter, yet the
comfort of thousands of families depends
on the saving and wise spending of them.
							M. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S FREEDOM.

	WE'LL move the glorious cause along,
We’ll shout a glad hosannah;
And aye, the burden of our song
Shall be the ladies’ banner. 
The march of progress shall be sure,
And soon the joy bells ringing,
Shall usher in the bright glad dawn
To woman freedom bringing.
		CHORUS:
	Then shout and sing, make the
welkin ring
Let all repeat the Chorus,
We’ll onward move in the cause we love,
With freedom’s banner o’er us.
	As ages come in the course of time 
We’ll strive to do our duty;
And to the world we’ll surely prove
That mind is more than beauty.
Our sons and daughters shall be taught
The path of truth and honor,
And by God’s help we’ll them restrain
From aught that brings dishonor.
						Chorus.
We’ll aid the weak, and with the strong
We’ll join in just endeavor,
To raise the fallen from the dust
And bring them into favor.
And to this end we’ll ask our God
His kindly aid to guide us,
In paths of virtue, peace, and truth
And that no ill betide us.
						Chorus.
	Written for the W. S. A. Beaver, Utah.
Words and Music by W. G. Bickley.


S. L. CO. CONVENTION.

	THE Annual Convention of the W. S.
A. of Salt Lake Co. for the election of
officers, was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Tuesday November 20th
1894, President E. MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Come Away” Prayer by
Mary A. Freeze. Sang, “Why do we
seek” Roll called, minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. The treasurer’s
report for the year was read and approved.
The election of officers by ballot was then
proceeded with, and resulted in the follow-
ing being unanimously sustained.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, President, Ruth
M. Fox, first Vice President, Adella W.
Eardley, seeond Vice President, Mary E.
Bassett, third Vice President, Mary E.
Irvine, Secretary, Ella W. Hyde, Treasurer,
Mary P. Silver, Chairman Ex. Board, E.
M. Price, Julia Druce, Louisa Badger and
E. MacFarlane members of board.
	The retiring President thanked the mem-
bers for their attendance during the year
just passed, said she had only been absent
once in the year. In a very pleasing
manner she then introduced the incoming
officers, feeling sure that they were the
right ones. President E. B. Ferguson
moved we give a hearty vote of thanks to
the retiring officers. It was carried unani-
mously. E. M. Price had only been absent
twice in four years, if she had not benefited
others she had benefited herself. Julia
Druce was very much pleased with the new
officers, thought they were just the ones
wanted at the present time; wished them
success, would do all she could to help the
cause along.
	President E. B. Ferguson thanked the
members for their confidence in her, would
do all she could to retain it, said there will
be plenty to do. The election is over, but
we ought to interview the members elected
to see if they intend to place women side
by side with men in the constitution, many
are inclined to hang back, saying wait till
we are a State then we will give to women
Suffrage. That women want to vote if
given the opportunity has been fully de-
monstrated in Colorado; they not only voted
themselves, but sought out all the indif-
ferent ones. We will find many who are
willing to work with us to obtain a proper
recognition in the constitution. Read a
very forcible letter from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune written by Mrs. Youngblood.
	A motion was made and carried that the
lady be waited upon and thanked for her
letter, also a communication be sent to the
daily papers expressing the feeling of this
meeting in regard to her noble defense of
woman. Moved to adjourn till December.
			MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.


[Column 1]
			CHAUCER.

	LIKE a new star did the genius of
Chaucer burst upon the English world of
the fourteenth century. A star which, by
its mellow radiance, revealed to that world,
beauties and pleasures it never dreamed of
before. A heralding luminary shedding its
friendly light down to the brilliant con-
stellation which was to follow in the dis-
tance. 
	 As the “Father of English poetry” he
has claimed the honor of all succeeding
generations; as the first to fix the clear
form of literary English, welding the two
tongues, struggling for supremacy, into
harmonious oneness and rhythm, thus
making it a true medium of poetic thought,
he must ever claim our gratitude; and, as
the first English artist, who, overflowing
with joy and love for all about him, war-
bled forth the gladness of his heart to de-
light the solemn world, we cannot with
hold from him our admiration.
 	A true child of nature—he sang of her
beauties and opened to the less observing
multitude, the door to a new creation.
	 Her simplest trophies were not too
small for his attention, for he gained his in-

[Column 2]
spiration from her melodies; and re-echoing
her touching notes he awoke the heart of
the world to her wondrous symphonies
We may look upon him as a simile of
spring, for in the presence of his spirit we
feel the gladdening rays of the sun; hear
the twitter of the birds in the blossoming
branches, and see the rainbow covering
that clothes the earth anew.
	His comprehensive sympathies were
attuned to the great throbbing heart of
humanity, as well as to the beauties of ex-
ternal nature. He felt with it—and for it,
in all its multitudinous variety of emotions.
And his wit, charity and sympathy, as his
love of field and flowers, became contagious
to his readers. This was his happy faculty:
the charm of his great genius.
	His writings may be classed under three
periods; each one being characterized by
distinctive elements. First is the French
period; in the writing of which is plainly
detected the influence of the gay romantic
poetry of Fance; imbibed by the Author
during his stay in that country. In the
productions of this period there is a pen-
sive undertone suggestive of an unrequited
or luckless love, which is thought to fur-
nish the key note to the poet’s early life.
	His second period is called the Italian,
for the reason that the writings classed un-
der that heading are bright reflections of
the cultivated literature of that country,
which he visited more than once; becoming
acquainted and charmed with some of its
most celebrated poets from whom he first
learned the range and scope of poetry and
how to tell a tale exquisitely. From the
works of these poets he subsequently made
translations and in some cases as in Boc-
caccio’s Troylus and Creseide, extensive ad-
dition of his own.
	But ’tis in the third or last period that he
throws off these foreign influences retain-
ing all their culture, and becomes the true
English bard whom we love. ‘Tis in this
period that he blends the languages, charm-
ing court and populace with his tales of
endless variety. In this period his mood
changes. The sorrowing sentiment of his
early love is left behind with his youth,
while his soul o’erflows with delightful
merriment. This is the humorous Chaucer
of the Canterbury Tales.
	On these same Tales does his fame chiefly
rest; for in them is comprised a wonderful
variety of subjects and diversity of treat-
ment. In them he depicts with the skill of
a master, the idiosyncrasies of classes, yet
alway with a breadth of charity untinged by
the slightest shade of cynicism. They were
to have been forty eight in number supposed
to be related by a company of Pilgrims who
were wont to journey from London to
Canterbury to pay their devotions at the
shrine of St. Thomas. The company
starting from a London Inn, were each to
tell two tales, one going and one on the
homeward trip, But this gigantic work
was not fully completed.
 	Not only as a poet, an artist, as England’s
first real disciple of the Muse, has Chaucer
a claim to our esteem and admiration, but,
unlike too many of the literary lights who
succeeded him, his character as a man is be-
yond reproach. He was a true gentleman.
kind, moral, chivalrous to women and
patient in adversity. Though born in the
middle ranks of society he attained to
positions of honor and trust in the govern-
ment of his country, and, at seven dif-
ferent times was intrusted with diplomatic
commissions abroad. Indeed his abilities

[Column 3]
seem to have been unusually versatile for
so great a genius in his own particular
line.
	He was a real benefactor to his own
generation, and has been a source of in-
spiration to the generations that have fol-
lowed. And, as the forerunner of a grand
procession of English singers, his name
will ever be held in high esteem, by all
lovers of the divine art of poesy.
	He died as he had lived, in the great
busy heart of London, and in the shadow
of Westminister Abbey, where his remains
were laid to rest; first, of the grand family
of great English bards whose tablets have
since found a niche in the poet’s corner of
that monument of fame.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

Salt Lake City December 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE WORLD’S CONGRESS OF REP-
RESENTATIVE WOMEN.

	The Congress of Representative Women,
A Historical Resume for Popular Circula-
tion of the World's Congress of Repre-
sentative Women, Convened in Chicago on
May 15th and adjourned on May 22—1893,
under the Auspices of the Woman's Branch
of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President, Mrs.
Charles Henrotin, Vice President:
	Edited by May Wright Sewall, Chair-
man Committee on Organization.

	THIS is the title and explanation of a
book which emphatically marks the pro-
gress of the age, and which comprises as
nearly as possible the work of that wonder-
ful week of the great Congress of women
from all-parts of the world.held in Chicago.
The motto upon the vignette (which is a
very handsome one representing the world
in gilt) is "Not for Herself but for
Humanity."
	The book is dedicated “To the men and
women among her contemporaries who
‘having ears to hear,’ can understand its
message and having open minds and
generous hearts, can regard with favor the
ultimate absolutely equal copartnership
which it unmistakably foreshadows, this
work is respectfully dedicated by the
Editor."
	The book is published in two volumes
and in one, both containing the same mat-
ter but differing only in paper and style of
binding etc. These volumes are elaborately
illustrated the frontis piece is The New
Art Institute, where the Congress was held,
then the portrait of Hon. Charles C. Bon-
ney. President of the World’s Congressess
of 1893, and portraits of other members of
that committee and eminent women, Bertha
M. Honore Palmer, President Board of
Lady Managers, and Ellen M. Henrotin,
Vice President; May Wright Sewall,
Chairman Committee on Organization, and
Rachel Foster Avery, Secretary, also of Mrs.
Adlai E. Stevenson, Lady Henry Somerset,
the Countess of Aberdeen, Laura Ormiston
Chant, Frances E. Willard and Susan B.
Anthony arranged in groups are also
pictures of many others, several upon one
page. The illustrations are all very good.
	The subject matter is wonderfully well
classified considering the super-abundance
of material the editor had to deal with, and
her zeal and anxiety to make the book cover

[Column 2]
the ground of the Congress and the
Department Meetings as well. We find it
very difficult to give any sort of satisfactory
review of this extraordinary book, which to
edit was, and necessarily must have been, a
Herculean task. The value and importance
of the book to the whole civilized world can
scarcely be over-estimated. Wherever the
knowledge of the World's Columbian Ex-
position is circulated, this book should be
read in connection with that fact, for it will
give an idea of the completeness of the
mammoth undertaking which entered in-
to every department in life, mentally and
morally (so to speak) as well as educa-
tionally, industriously, socially, economi-
cally and politically, and yet its place was
so unique that it did not intefere with the
proper work of woman in any other depart-
ment of the World’s Congress work.
	The subjects are methodically grouped
under appropriate headings beginning with
the preface which every one should read;
Chapter I. contains the introduction which
gives one a good idea of the most noted
women of the Congress in a few words of
their own, then the address of the Chair-
man, Mrs. Sewall, which in itself is most
complete and beautiful in style, and perfect
in diction—Chapter II. Preparations,
giving one a brief summary of the
enormous work which was done by a few,
preparatory to holding this world-wide
Congress, and especially of Mrs. Sewall’s
visit to Europe in that interest; this chapter
closes with a Programme of the Congress—
in paragraphs presenting all the subjects
and who treated them and names of
Presidents of the day, in the Halls of
Washington and Columbus and many of
those in Department Congresses. Chapter
III—Education, opens with editorial re-
marks introducing and explaining the mat-
ter used, and throwing much light upon the
way all subjects are treated; other chapters
in their order are dealt with in a similar
manner which greatly helps and enlightens
the reader, especially those not present, or
taking part in the Congress itself, who can
somewhat better comprehend the difficulties
of editing such an over-supply of material,
although no one can really sympathize with
the editor in her work except to have had
charge of a like undertaking. Chapter IV.
Literature and the Dramatic Art has not
only an Introductory Comment by the
editor, but Editorial Comments relative to
the session of the General Congress devoted
to considering woman’s relation to Dramatic
Literature and to the stage. A telegram
was read from Mme. Janauschek excusing
herself and expressing her sympathy with
the cause—and the objects of the Congress.
Mlle. Rhea was also unavoidably absent
but the addresses of Helena Modjeska,
Georgie Cayvan and Julia Mrrlowe are
published almost in their entirety. This
chapter is certainly one of the finest in the
book Miss Marlowe closes her address
with the following paragraph:
	"That woman is capable of arduous ef-
fort and untiring devotion has been fully
demonstrated upon the stage. She has
helped to elevate the drama to its rightful
place among the educational forces of life,
and to make true what Morley says:"—
"At the play-house door, we may say to
the doubting, ‘Enter boldly, for here, too,
there are gods.’ "
	Science and Religion follows with pref-
atory remarks by the editor, scientific and
copious extracts from many papers by dis-

[Column 3]
tinguished women in the professions, and in
the ministry, worthy of special notice
would our space permit. Charity, Philan-
thropy and Religion follows, in the Editor’s
comments she says, no preceding chapter
has so clearly shown the character of the man-
agement of the great Congress as this does;
we would like to make many quotations to
show the wide scope of the addresses but in
our small paper it is impossible; however
we will mention in this connection,
"Organized work of Catholic Women,”
"Woman s place in Hebrew Thought"—
and "The Sisters of the People," the last
paper by Mrs. Hugh Price Hughes of Lon-
don, gives one a good idea of the society,
its practical benefits and results, and is com-
paratively new in methods of work.
	Moral and Social Reform comes next.
This is an invaluable acquisition to the
book, there are many addresses containing
the best thoughts, and practical propositions,
of some of the most eminent women en-
gaged in this field of work, in our own
and in foreign countries, as well as much
that has been actually accomplished in this
direction. The comments by the editor are
of great significance. Mrs. Sewall says,
"Of the seventy-one papers presented in
report congresses at least ninety per cent
treat subjects that come properly under the
head of social and moral reform, and the
same is true of at least seventy per cent of
the hundreds of addresses made in depart-
ment congresses. This chapter covers one
hundred and thirty-seven pages, Among
the famous women whose papers are given
(at least in part) are the names of Julia
Ward Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Viscountess Harberton, Maud Ballington
Booth, Laura Ormiston Chant, Lady Henry
Somerset, and Octavia W. Bates, also of
younger women famous in their own land
but not so well-known in ours, Josefa
Humpal—Zeman of Bohemia, and Mar-
garet Windeyer of New South Wales. These
young women give great promise for the
future. The last chapter in this volume
treats of the Civil and Political Status of
Women and contains many able addresses
by women who have been foremost in
laboring for the advancement of woman's
cause in the sense of moral, social and
political equality. In the address of Mrs.
Jacob Bright, sister-in-law of the Hon. John
Bright, she brings up some of the purposes
for which the LEAGUE she represents is
laboring thus, Equality of political rights
and duties—of educational opportunities,
of wages for women, for work of equal
quality and quantity with that done by
men. Of the right to hold any office or
position, paid or honorary, to which her
fellow citizens may elect her or which is in
the gift of the state. Equality in the
marriage laws, in divorce. In the right to
the custody and guardianship of children
born in wedlock. Of personal freedom and
the rights and liabilities of contract. And
the lady remarks, “The legal position of
the wife in England is a scandal to civiliza-
tion.” Other addresses are by Florence
Fenwick Miller, the Countess of Aberdeen
and other women equally able and well
qualified to enlighten the public.
	The second volume opens with Civil Law
and Government and contains extracts from
addresses by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, the Countess of Aberdeen,
the Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg and the
Baroness Thorberg Rappe, and many others
well known to fame in our own country.


[Column 1]
Industries and Occupations in which the
Editor opens her comments with the remark
that “The idea is still current that as a rule
women “are supported” by men. Upon
this popular delusion the following pages
throw much light.” The speakers and
papers upon this subject represent different
nationalities and are therefore of wider
scope and broader thought than as though
presented from one part of the world. Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Bohemia,
and various states of the union. Elizabeth
Roselowsky, Lina Morgenstein, and Kaethe
Shirmacher gave definite information very
valuable as well as treating the general sub-
ject under discussion in a most able manner,
and as we Americans know most of the
work here in our own land, it is always a
good thing to understand what other
women are doing, to benefit and bless, and
build up elsewhere.
	The Solidarity of Human Interests is
most eloquently and intelligently treated in
a chapter which covers three hundred and
thirty-five pages. The editor states in a
sub-heading—“Illustrated by the Progress
of Women in Spain, the South American
States, England and her Dependencies; in
Poland, Italy, Siam, Iceland and Syria,
and by women of African Descent in the 
United States.” We note also France,
Denmark, Greece and New South Wales.
It would be quite impossible to give the
reader any correct idea of what may be
learned from this one chapter, and of its
true value to those interested in the great
questions, that are agitating the whole
civilized world. The editor in her pertinent
comments says: “This chapter proves that
the woman question is no longer an Ameri-
canism; that it is no longer a local question
at all; that it cannot be regarded as the
curious culminating expression of the in-
sane passion for independence characteristic
of the Angle-Saxon race.” The addresses
were delivered by women some of whom
are conspicuous among their colleagues
in America; Isabelle Bogelot of France,
Callirhoe Parren of Greece, Catalina D’-
Alcala of Spain, Nico Beck Meyer and
Kirstine Frederikson of Denmark, Helena
Modjeska, Poland. Fanny Zampini Salazer
and Sofia Bompiani of Italy, Lady Linchee
Suriza of Siam, Hanna K. Korany of Syria,
Segrid E. Magnusson of Iceland, Helen
Blackburn, England (Editor of the English-
woman’s Review, a magazine devoted to
woman’s work in its best sense,) Martha
Sesselberg, Brazil, Isabel King of the
Argentine Republic, Matilda G. DeMiro
Quesada of Peru, with many noted women
of Canada and the United States. The
next chapter is Education and Literature, as
presented in the subordinate Congresses.
One of the most notable of these is the
International Kindergarten Union given by
Sarah A. Stewart, and perhaps we ought to
mention among abstracts of papers in re-
port congresses such women as Belle Grant
Armstrong and John Strange Winter
(Henritta E. V. Stannard.) This chapter
contains many valuable papers, but it is
utterly impossible to even mention the
names of writers. Religion as treated in
the subordinate Congresses is another very
important chapter in this valuable book;
the Editor’s remarks contain much that
shows the drift of woman’s thought in the
religious world—Mrs Sewall closes her re-
marks with the Reverend Anna Shaw’s in-
spiring analysis and application of the
text” “which translated into current life

[Column 2]
imbues with prophecy. The women that
publish the tidings” already “a great host”
are becoming an irresistible force.
	Chapter XIV—Industrial Social and
Moral Reform, as treated in the subor inate
Congresses. There are also extracts from
addresses in Report Congresses; among
these we notice the name of a famous
German woman Hanna Bieber Boehm of
Berlin, President of the large association
Jugundsckutz ,also Mrs. Bedford Fenwick of
England who represented the Royal British
Nurses Association.
	The closing chapter XV—Orders, Civil
and Political Reform, as presented in the
subordinate Congresses. The Daughters
of the American Revolution by Mrs. Adlai
E. Stevenson wife of the Vice President of
the United States. The Eastern Star, its
origin progress and development by Mary
C. Snedden of Missouri. Treating on this
subject Mrs. Snedden says. “How then
came women to be associated with exclusive
brotherhood of Masons? and what is the
relationship existing between the Masonic
fraternity and the Order of the Eastern
Star? This is an exceedingly interesting
paper, and indeed there are a number of
chapters in the book which taken singly,
are worth the price of the whole volume.
The last paper besides the editor’s conclud-
ing note and the appendix is by Rachel
Foster Avery Cor. Secretary of the
National Council of Women, of which
Mrs. May Wright Sewall is President; and
if it were possible we should very much
like to devote some space to our own ideas
of the work these two magnificent women
have done for this great Congress, that
has carried the new Gospel of women and
of humanity far and wide. In conclusion
we can only say (for language is inadequate)
as we said at first, this wonderful book, and
add that it should be in every home in the
land, and in other lands, where it would
sow the good seeds of the world’s actual
progress, and help to lead into the light of
a broader humanity, many who sit in dark-
ness, and many more who are struggling
for greater truths, and practical adaptation
of those already in their possession. For
the Editor of this stupenduous work we
have the highest commendation, and trust
that it may not only be like bread cast upon
the waters to return after many days, but
that she may realize here and hereafter the
great love and appreciation of the women
of all lands for her noble and magnanimous
work of compiling and extracting the
richest kernels of wisdom, and the finest
gems of truth from so many varied sub-
jects, and making such a harmonious chain
of the whole, linked together with golden
threads of her own fine spun materials.
	Rand McNally and Co., Chicago and
New York are the Publishers, a firm well
known and thoroughly reliable. As to the
typographical work, paper and binding it
speaks for itself, and one cannot help seeing
at once that it is all first class. The books
bound in two volumes are $5.00 per set, in
one, $3.50. That this book will find
ready sale, among those who understand
the signs of the times, is easy to predict.
It is a work which requires thought and
will also produce thought, and lead to higher
and better things. We heartily recommend 
the book to the reading public, and would
gladly see it put upon the Salt Lake mar-
ket, feeling certain that wherever it is read
it will awaken noble sentiments and ad-
vanced views of life its aims and objects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

Mrs. Zina D. H. Young’s residence is 146,
4th, St. Salt Lake City, instead of 147.
	WE wish specially to call the attention of
our readers to CACTUS PAPER published
in this issue; we are very anxious all should
read it, as it is certainly one of the best
articles (if not the best) of its kind ever
published in the EXPONENT. It is by a
Utah girl and should therefore have more
weight. We recommend it to the remons-
trants and the women who have "all the
rights they want," and to all not yet con-
verted to the idea of equal political rights.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this stake of Zion will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city
Saturday December 15th Meetings com-
mencing at ten a. m. and two p. m. as
usual. Presidents of all the branches in
this Stake are urgently requested to attend
or to have a representative present. All
officers and members of the Society are
cordially invited, also the presiding author-
ties, Bishops, and brethren who are interest-
ed in this charitable organization.
	ON Thursday November 15th, Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp gave a very pleasant party
at her residence to about thirty ladies (her
intimate friends.) The parlors were taste-
fully decorated with autumn leaves and
flowers, and the genial flow of conversation
was intensely interesting. The supper
which was daintily served was very de-
licious, and the “table-talk” was delight-
fully entertaining. After the guests re-
turned to the warm and pleasant parlors,
there was music by some of the young
women both vocal and instrumental. The
evening was occupied with a sort of spirit-
ual feast or meeting. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding, the hymn “O, my
Father” was sung and Mrs. E. S. Taylor
offered prayer, after which each of the
ladies present spoke a few words, and ex-
pressed their love and appreciation of their
amiable hostess the sentiments were grace-
fully responded to by Dr. Shipp, and after a
benediction had been pronounced the party-
dispersed feeling spiritually refreshed.
	THE W. S. Associations in the several
counties, in this Territory are hereby re-
minded that the memberships are due this
present month, and the Territorial President
has been notified that the entire member-
ship must be sent on to the treasurer of the
National American W. S. A. otherwise we
shall lose our votes in the Convention during
the year 1896. Officers are urged to be as
diligent as possible in collecting and
forwarding the money with the names and
addresses of all paid up members. Uin-
tah, Iron and Washington Counties
just recently organized are exempt from
taxation this year. These lists of names
and addresses must be certified to by the
President and Recording Secretary of the
respective auxiliary W. S. A. The Terri-
torial President also requires a concise re-
port of the year’s work in each county to
be forwarded to her address, during this
month in time to include it in the yearly
report which must reach the Secretary
of the N.—A. W. S. A. before January 1st
1895.
	MRS. JENNINGS gave, her annual “Old
Ladies Afternoon Tea” on Tuesday, No-
vember 20th, at the Jennings house. It is


needless to say Mrs. Jennings entertain
handsomely, her parties whether for old or
young are always enjoyable. Her magnifi-
cent drawing room and library were decor-
ated with flowers mostly chrysanthemums
which made the elegant rooms still more
charming. The hostess was evidently de-
sirous to have every one enjoy herself,
and spared no effort to accomplish her pur-
pose, going from one group to another and
entering into conversation lively and serious
as the case might be. It is scarcely possible
to describe the “tea.” The large and
pleasant dining room was filled with small
tables set for four or six in the very dain-
tiest and cosiest style and at each place
chrysanthemums tied with pretty white rib-
bon, a souvenir to keep in remembrance of
the pleasant afternoon. Young girls fresh
and beautiful waited upon the ladies, and
the hostess serene and smiling poured the
tea, hot water or chocolate, which was
served to the forty invited guests. The hot
rolls, oyster patties, and other luxuries,
were warmly appreciated and elaborately
praised, as well as the dessert of the
choicest cakes, candies and fruits. Mrs.
Frank Jennings favored the ladies with
some musical selections while at table, and
after their return to the parlors, which added
very greatly to the enjoyment of this de-
lightful old-fashioned, old ladies tea-party.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	Relief Society Conference. Hawaiian
Islands: The morning air at Lanihule on
October 5th was fanned by a variety of
neatly made banners and flags bearing the
inspired expressions of Joseph the Prophet
relative to the labors of the sisters in this
church.
	More than one hundred sisters formed in
line and marched to the meetinghouse fully
enthused with the importance of the event,
viz, their general conference.
	After the usual opening exercises, read-
ing of reports etc., in which twenty dif-
ferent societies were represented; Sister
Noall made a few opening remarks appro-
priate for the occasion. Twelve of the
societies were represented verbally by their
presidents or their representatives. Inter-
spersed between these were songs by the
native sisters and a duet by sisters Laura
Fisher and Phoebe Scholes. Words of in-
struction and encouragement were given by
sisters Alice Harmon and Laura Fisher.
Secretary Ruth Kauhine spoke on the sub-
ject of a testimony of the truth and one of
the aids—Kaluapalaoa spoke on the sub-
ject of the laying on of hands for the heal-
ing of the sick. Sister Lizzie Brown gave
words of counsel. Sister Makanoe read a
letter of condolence containing resolutions
of respect for Sister Maulani Kea, one of
our central officers here, who departed this
life September 25th. Sister Noall spoke of
the object of the society, the duty of its
officers, members etc., referred to those
who were not so zealously engaged in this
work as formerly, and encouraged all to a
renewal of diligence in keeping God’s
commandments.
	The report from twenty societies, (ten
not being represented) shows, members
494, meetings help 333, cash on hand at
date of last report, $167,85, cash received
$208,40, disbursed for charitable purposes

[Column 2]
$143,45, cash on hand $232,80. A few
instructive remarks were made by president
Mathew Noall, and the general and local
officers of the Relief Society were sustain-
ed after which the congregation sang the
hymn “O my Father,” and the benediction
was offered by Sister Libbie Noall.
	The saints in general are not requested
to attend the semi-annual conference as
largely as the annual, this counsel is given
on account of the financial crisis existing
among them, hence the cause of our con-
ference not being as large as usual, but the
same spirit of benevolence so prevalent
among the sisters in religious assemblies
was felt by those present and it was pro-
nounced a success spiritually.
Primary Conference.
	Brighter beamed the sun on the morning
of the 6th as the little folks gathered at the
mission house to prepare to march. Nimble
fingers pinned on badges of red and blue
bearing the words in white letters “Hui
Kamalii” and by 9:30 o’clock more than
one hundred bright happy faces were
turned towards the meeting house. Indeed
it was a brilliant display of colors, and in
looking at the sparkling eyes and intelligent
faces of the little ones, the thought natural-
ly suggests itself. “The Primary will
be the educator of the future Hawaiians
in this church.”
	When seated the children occupied the
entire centre of the house the smaller child-
ren in advance of the older, a large plat-
form was arranged in front of the pulpit,
and covered with Hawaiian matting, on
which the children stood to recite. Meeting
was opened by singing “Open the door
for the children.” prayer was offered by
Kekoa a girl from Honolulu, Singing
“Around the throne of God in heaven.”
Reports were read from the two associations,
Laie and Honolulu, showing that each had
preformed a lively work during the past
term. Both societies when called responded
with an appropriate sentiment. “Two
Little Welcomes” was given by
Nonnie Noall and Leialoha. An address of
welcome by John Wahilani, a little boy of.
Honolulu, was highly commented upon on
account of the spirited manner in which it
was given. Questions were asked on
“Good Behavior” and were promptly ans-
wered by all the children. An A. B. C.
song and recitation was given by Kikila, a
dialogue “When I’m a Man” was rendered
nicely by eleven of the older boys, follow-
ed by singing “O my Father” in native; a
dialogue “Pray without ceasing” translated
in native, was given by Honolulu children,
a song by Iva and Hattie Kekuku, was
rendered nicely. Several other dialogues
were translated on the subject of “Meeting
day” “Sabbath” “Smoking” etc., which
seem to have much more effect on the minds
of the children than when rendered in the
English language. The Lord’s prayer was
sung by a number of little girls in a kneel-
ing attitude. The Ten Commandments
were recited by Ahl a Chinese boy. Dia-
logue on “Obedience” by Tillie Brown
Vera and Nonnie Noall. Original song by
the Honolulu children, many other exer-
cises such as dialogues, recitations, bible
verses etc., were given, but one of the most
instructive and pleasing features to both
parents and children were the Bible stories
prepared in native and which were credit-
ably rendered by the children. The follow-
ing are a few of the subjects of the stories,

[Column 3]
"Ruth and Naomi" Jonah sent to Nineveh"
“Sowing good seeds” “Daniel in the Lions
den” “Children of Israel led by Moses”
“Children of Israel led by Joshua’’ “Nephi
obtaining the plates” “Christ blessing little
children” “Josiah King of Judah” etc.
	The Honolulu children sang “O birdie
I am tired now." Remarks of encourage-
ment were made and the general and local
officers were sustained. The children sang
“Dare to do right” and prayer was offered
by a little girl Julia. Thus closed the
largest and most enjoyable conference yet
held among the children of these Islands
and all present felt to rejoice in the hope of
Israel and ma[--] expressions of satisfaction
were made concerning the progress of the
little folks.
The Fair.
	The doors of the fair at Lanihuli were
thrown open and all were invited to view
the hand-work of the children. A splendid
display met the eye, and praise reflected
upon all who had taken part, and the neat-
ness in workmanship was commendable, a
few of the novel designed quilts which the
native sisters are so expert in making added
much to the exhibit.
	Although in some respects different in
class of work the quality and variety would
compare very favorably, with those more
accustomed to this kind of work. The
proceeds which were received from entrance
fees, have aided materially in obtaining
books for the primary work and we are now
prepared to do more good than we other-
wise could have done through lack of
material to work with.
E. D. N.

DAVIS STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference of
Davis Stake held at Kaysville, Oct. 19th,
1894.
	On the stand with President Susan Grant
and her Counselors were Apostle F. D.
Richards and wife, Sarah M. Kimball,
Mary A. Freeze, President Hess and his
Counselor Hyrum Grant and others.
President Susan Grant presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing,“Come let us anew”
Prayer by President Hess. Singing, “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet” etc.
Minutes of the forenoon meeting of the
previous conference were read and approved.
President Grant made opening remarks in
which she said she felt greatly blessed in
having our brothers and sisters with us and
that aged Apostle Brother Richards here
with us, was satisfied we would be built up
and strengthened at this conference.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, “I am thankful
I was learnt to be obedient while I was
young, that is why I respond when called
on, I ask your faith and prayers, we are
living in a day when there is much to do.
I am pleased to see Sister Kimball here
we should all feel energetic in attending
our meetings, it is just as much for them
that don’t hold office as them that do.”
Spoke about the Relief Society of Nauvoo,
“I was a member of it,” also spoke about
“obedience, and making our homes happy,
my home is my heaven. Sisters go on
doing good and comfort those that are cast
down I ask God to bless you and me, so that
when we are called on to pass behind the
veil we won’t have any regrets.”
	The branches of the Society of South,


[Column 1]
West and East Bountiful, Farmington,
Kaysville and Summit Basin were re-
ported as being in good running condition 
and good feelings prevailing.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I am pleased
to meet with you, and ask your faith and
prayers,” she then read the 25th Section in
the Doctrine and Covenants then made re-
marks on what she had read, “think it a 
sermon within itself, I think the words that 
were spoken to Emma Smith meant all
that are called to the same position, we
should cultivate the best of our natures if
we do we become more and more exalted
and elevated, we all have capabilities far
beyond our comprehension, I pray that you
may be blest and comprehend what is best
for you.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant, “I have been
very much interested in the remarks of the 
sisters and can testify the spirit of the Lord
has attended those that have spoken,’’ spoke
about the power of God, referred to how
he felt when he was first called to be a
teacher. “I felt as though I wanted to
shirk my duty but the good spirit prevailed
and I went and done my duty and I have
felt thankful for the experience I had in do-
ing it, sisters dont feel that you are getting
too old to be useful. I pray that the spirit
of the Lord will continue with us that we
may be blest in meeting together.” Confer-
ence adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing
“My God the spring of all my joys.”
Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON-SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by
Brother Rouche. Singing, “Come come
ye Saints.” Minutes of the afternoon 
meeting of the previous conference read
and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze then addressed the
congregation. “I heard things this morn-
that I will always remember, the prayer
was a sermon of itself.” spoke on the
word of wisdom, “I heard a man say he
was not converted to the word of wisdom 
until last conference; if I knew a certain
thing would be good for me I would grasp
it, many think that all the Relief Society
is for is to look after the poor and needy
but the Prophet Joseph said it was to save
souls, my spirit has many times needed a
physician, the Prophet also said this
Church was not fully organized until the
women were organized,” spoke about
temple work what a comfort it is to re-
deem our dead, “let us try to understand
the whisperings of the spirit, my dear sis-
ters, the teachers, you should be Angels of
mercy do not underate yourselves you are
doing much good, we should cultivate con-
fidence in ourselves. I pray that you may 
have the spirit of God to educate you that
you may be good sisters and mothers
in the kingdom of God”
	Apostle Richards then said, “I appreciate
very highly this privilege of meeting with
you, I do think the spirit of the Lord is
quite as ready to meet with the women as
the men, I do not think they have as many
bad habits they are not addicted to them,
I was pleased with what Sister Kimball
read to us.” Spoke about the early
organization of this Society, exhorted the
sisters to be more diligent and earnest in
their duties, “you have the same blessings
bestowed upon you as your husbands, and
you must understand these blessings are
yours in connection with your husbands,
there is a great deal resting upon you, your
calling is no mean one. Sisters lift up your

[Column 2]
heads and rejoice for you are blest of the
Lord. I feel honored to associate with the
authorities of this stake, and the women 
that were acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph: spoke upon Woman’s Suffrage and 
being self-sustaining, how different our 
surroundings were when we first came
here. Mothers you want to talk to your
daughters and have them understand what
they came here for, we want our children to
escape iniquity, we want to live so the
whisperings of the spirit will guide us
right for we want our consciences clean and
pure,” exhorted the sisters to be faithful,
“the time will come when it will be known
who has been faithful. I feel to bless you
my sisters that you may be a blessing to
your husbands and families and may the 
Lord help us all,” etc.
	President Hess, “I have enjoyed this
meeting very much, it seems to me that it
has all been just as good as it could be, we 
have a treat today in having an Apostle
with us, it shows to us the interest that is
taken in these organizations. I with my
Counselors have made up our minds that
we can do more good in coming to these
meetings than in any other way, I have al-
ways felt amply paid in attending them,
there is a great labor to be done, among the 
people try and be a little more diligent in
talking up and encouraging the sisters to 
come out to these meetings, that they may
receive the same blessings that you do in
coming, it is to be regretted that no more 
attend these meetings, may God help us to
see our duties and do them at all times.”
President Grant “I think we have great
reason to rejoice in what we have heard,
we will now adjourn our Conference for 
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.”
Singing, “Do what is right, the day dawn 
is breaking” and benediction by Counselor 
Mary Clark.
			PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	“ALL the political parties of North Da-
kota have declared for woman suffrage.”
	NOT a home in Kansas has been broken
up, and probably not an iota of domestic
discord has ever resulted from municipal
suffrage for women during the past seven
years. If the women in the towns are
capable of exercising judgment and voting
their conclusions as to matters of city gov-
ernment (street improvements, police
regulations, gas, waterworks, etc,) are the
women in the country any less capable of
exercising judgment and voting their con-
victions as to bridges, court house bonds,
salaries of county officers, etc?—Lincoln
(Kan.) Beacon.
IRON CO. W. S. A.
	OUR organization was affected at Parowan
Sep. 29th, 1894, E. B. Wells, Territorial
President presiding at the meeting. E.
Crane Watson, President; Mary Ollerton
and Bessie Parry Vice Presidents were
unanimously sustained as officers of the
W. S. A. of Iron Co. Ella Rasmussen,
Rec. Sec., Minnie Adams Corresponding
Secretary. Mrs. Julia Lyman was voted
to be chairman Executive Committee. The
following named ladies were chosen as
members of the Committee. Mary
H. Dalley, Mette C. Matheson, Juliette


Adams, Josie Curtis, Ada Orton,
Gwen Mitchell, Belle Richards, Ida Smith,
and they have proven themselves a very ef-
ficient corps; since that date we have held
our meetings semi-monthly, for although
we are behind in becoming an association
we do not intend occupying that position in
our movements and advancement any
longer than we are obliged to.
	The Executive Committee also hold two
sessions each month; after our devotional
exercises we next have the Civil Govern-
ment class, take up about thirty minutes
being conducted by a different member
each time, we have a reading or recitation,
and music either vocal or instrumental on
each program, one or two short lectures,
these we alternate with the reading of a
manuscript paper, being edited by the
members in turn, once each month. We
think we are progressing finely already
realizing (to a slight degree of course) the
benefits of the W. S. A. Total enroll-
ment of fifty-two numbers.
	November 20—94, we gave a musical
and literary entertainment, an affair we are
justly proud of, the young men and ladies
assisted us with a vim that is greatly to
their credit; there were more than twenty
different parts including the reading of
“The Echo of Equal Suffrage” a number
we published for the occasion, not a jar or
sign of failure any where, this was gotten
up for the purpose of enlarging the
Treasurer’s funds sufficiently to obtain books
for the benefit of the association. We
think we have made a good beginning yet
we are only of the primary grade, and will
eagerly and gratefully accept any instruc-
tions, that our sister organizations, might
feel disposed to offer.
E. CRANE WATSON, President.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN suffrage is marching on slowly
but surely wherever it has been tried, in
New Zealand as in Colorado. And it is
coming in Maine, coming 50,000 strong.
—Bath, (Me.) Daily Times.
	THE Equal Suffrage Association of
Kansas City, Kan., held its first meeting
after the election of consultation at the
home of President Jennie Mahar, 408 State
Avenue. The sentiment in favor of keep-
ing up the fight for equal suffrage was
unanimous.
	IF women are competent to advise men
how to vote, why are they not competent
themselves to vote? If their political in-
fluence is desirable now, why would it not
be more valuable to the State if it was in-
creased by the power of the ballot? If they
are so far ignorant of politics that they
ought not to vote, is not their present inter-
ference with politics reprehensible?—N. Y
Daily Sun.
	COUNTESS OYAMA, the wife of Field
Marshal Count Oyama, who is commanding
the second Japanese army in the vicinity of
Port Arthur, is described as one of the
most charming and accomplished ladies of
Japan. She was educated in an American
college, either Wellesley or Vassar, and
speaks English fluently, She was one of
the lady commissioners appointed by the
Empress of Japan to gather and send an
exhibition to the World Fair.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. EWING’S PUFF PASTE AND
PIECRUST.

	In making the statement that pie-crust
was as digestible as oatmeal or graham
bread, Mrs. Ewing wished to explain that
she meant pastry made in the proper man-
ner was more digestible than the average
graham bread or oatmeal, and that either of
the latter was not good when eaten under
protest, or with the idea that one must eat
it for his health; but if eaten because re-
lished, the case was different. A constant
use of any one article of diet is dangerous,
especially for young people. Some eminent
physicians argue that every cell of every
organ requires its own nutrition, hence the
need of variety. The average person who
is seemingly best fed may perhaps be little
fed.
	Mrs. Ewing then prepared the flaky pie-
crust in the following manner: Take three
cups of sifted flour to one cup of shortening,
(the shortening consists of half butter and
half lard;) after measuring the shortening
set it on ice to cool. Everything connected
with making pastry should be perfectly
cold. Hash the flour and shortening to-
gether before an open window so the air
enters the paste as you turn it. When
hashed so that the shortening appears like
flakes about the size of a pea, add ice water
about three quarters of a cup, and scatter
in all through, not in one place because you
don’t want to work it any more than
necessary to make a combination. Do not
use the hands, for two reasons; first, it
would warm the shortening, and second, it
would make it too fine; be sure not to rub
the pie crust any more than you can help,
rather too little than too much, for the
flakes must not be destroyed. Scatter a
little dry flour on the board and place the
pasty on, fold carefully in three, that is,
the first part over one-third of the way,
then bring the other end over so you have
three layers; turn so that the open ends are
towards and from you and roll; repeat this
folding, turning and rolling three times,
the sooner it is made the better it will be.
If made an hour or two before use, it will
be nicer. Use all the flour you need to roll
the pie crust, but be careful to brush it off
each time the paste is turned over. The
secret of fine pie crust lies in the rolling;
and considering that fact it would be im-
possible to accurately tell just how to make
puff paste as Mrs. Ewing makes it; one can
only learn that by close observation; but if
the principles of folding, turning and roll-
ing are understood, one can have perfect
puff paste by the following receipe: One
pound of flour, one pound of butter; work
the butter in a wet towel until it is waxy
and pliable set aside on the ice; take one-
eighth of the butter and work into the flour;
take the white of a large egg and enough
ice water to moisten the flour; work with
finger tips until it blisters or is the same
consistency as the butter; always work in a
cool room and before an open window; place
on the board and roll out just enough to
cover with the butter; wipe the moisture
from the butter and sprinkle with flour; lay
butter on paste and gather the paste over
the butter pinching the edges so that the
butter is folded in; press with rolling pin
slightly three times, first in the middle then
at the sides, then roll half as much as you
intend, turn over and roll the other side;
leave the paste about an inch thick; this is
to stretch the butter, and rolling always
just the same on both sides so as to keep

[Column 2]
the butter poised midway between the
paste; fold the paste in three, turn around,
press as before and roll. This process of
rolling is done seven times and it is best to
let the paste wait a few minutes between
each roll; therefore if you make the pound
mixture you might work half at a time and
let one part wait while the other is worked.
It is much better to chill the paste between
every turn. In warm weather six turns
should be enough, but seven is the proper
number, more might break the layers. The
last time you roll the paste, brush the sur-
face with lemon juice, measure the length
of your paste and be sure you fold it ex-
actly as before. It is better made the day
before wanted and if carefully packed in a
dry and wet tea towel will keep in a cool
place for days, and be as nice as when first
made.


GRAINS OF TRUTH.
	
	MANY yet are the secret truths of God,
which will be unfolded as they are needed.
—Beecher.

	DEFEAT is a school in which truth al-
ways grows strong.—Beecher.

	MINDS, like faces, are the real things.
Books, like photographs, are only impress-
ons.

	IF for any reason whatever a child can
be taught but one lesson, let that lesson
be Faith in God. For that one step towards
an education is of more permanent value to
a human being than all other learning put
together.


IN MEMORIAM.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF MAREN BARTLESON.

	SISTER BARTLESON was born in Lundie, Viborg,
Amt, Denmark, Aug. 19th, 1807.
	She was married to Niels Bartleson in the sum-
mer of 1831, and joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the spring of 1853.
Her husband did not join for some time after.
	They suffered much persecution in their native
land even before they became members of the
Church, and were compelled to choose between
their home and the Gospel: for one or the other
must be forfeited, although their landlord tried
hard to have them give up their religion which
the husband would have done at that time, he,
being quite weak in the faith; but his wife pre-
ferred giving up her home, putting her trust in the
Lord, saying, it was all in the programme; so she
with her husband and ten children, the youngest
being only a year and a half old, calmly sub-
mitted to leave their home, the only one they
had occupied since their marriage, (twenty one
years.) From that time they had no permanent
home until they emigrated to America which they
did in 1863.
	The children all except two, the oldest and
youngest, had come before, the mother having
sent them as she could get means. This required
great faith, some of them being very young to be
entrusted to the care of strangers. But her great
desire was to have them gather to Zion and be
privillged to meet them there. The Lord heard and
answered her prayers in their behalf. For altho’
the companies, in which they came, were over-
taken with disaster, sickness and death, their
lives were all spared to meet their parents and
youngest sister when they arrived in Utah. The
oldest daughter still being in Denmark. After
some traveling around in the Territory, they
made their home in Mt Pleasant, Sanpete Co.,
where Brother Bartleson died a faithful Elder,
Sep. 20th, 1875. The remaining years of Sister
Bartleson’s life she lived a widow. She labored
in the Relief Society as a teacher for many years.
The duties of this office she falthfully fiulfilled.
One of her chief delights was to visit and relieve
the wants of the poor and needy.
	She still kept her home in Mt. Pleasant, but for
the last five and a half years previous to her
demise she had lived with her daughters, Lette
and Threna Dalley in Summit, Iron Co. She. was
afflicted with a consumptive cough for twelve
years, and the last two years of her life, she was


not able to leave her room or do anything for
her self; and her constant prayer was for the
Lord to take her home. She never feared death
any more than she would to pass from one room
to another. She passed very peacefully away
from this life on the third of April 1894, at the
residence of her daughter Lette Dalley. She
was the mother of ten children, one son and nine
daughters, all of whom survive her. She had
ninety four grand children and one hundred and
six great grand children.
	She died as she lived a faithful Latter-day
Saint and we know that she will reap the reward
of the faithful.
LETTE B. DALLEY.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, Sept. 27th 1894, Orderville Utah, Ann
Carling Chamberlain wife of Thomas Chamber-
lain and daughterof Isaac W.and Asenath Brown-
ing Carling, was born April 7, 1859, at Fillmore,
Utah. She was the mother of eight children one
of the number having passed away, her suffering
for four days was past severe with inflamation of
the bowels, then our Heavenly Father relieved
her of her suffering. She was a dutiful wife and
an affectionate mother. Deceased was a mem
of the Relief Society and also of the Y. L. M. I.
A., the bereaved husband and children have our
heartfelt sympathy.
	We miss thee from our home dear mother,
		We miss thee from thy place;
	A shadow o’er our life is cast,
		We miss thy smiling face.
	
	We miss thy kind and willing hand.
		Thy fond and earnest care,
	Our home is dark without thee,
		We miss thee everywhere.
						CLARISSA WILHELM.
Young Ladies Journal—please copy.

	A noble woman’s gone to rest
		A gentle mother’s voice is still.
	Sweet children and a husband kind
		Bow humbly to the Father’s will.

	A guileless life our Sister led
		Esteemed and honored by us all;
	A modest flower which sweetly bloomed
		Must by the keen destroyer fall.

	The loss we feel is Sister’s gain
		A Heavenly bliss is her reward:
	For while on earth she ever strove
		To faithfully obey the Lord.

	And those who mourn for mother, wife,
		May they find peace from God above;
	And if they lead as pure a life
		Again they’ll know a mother’s love.
							MARIA JENSEN.


Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed'
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1894.		No. 12.


CONTENTS:

	He Cometh Not—A Story. Utah—Emmeline
B. Wells. National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Mrs. Ewing’s Puddings And
Sauces. R. S. Report—Ann C. Woodbury. Wo-
man Suffrage Column—L. D. Watson. Notes 
And News. Obituaries. West Bountiful.

	EDITORIAL:—The Old And New Year. Mr.
Lambourne’s New Book. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Impromptu Song-Prayer—E. R.
Shipp. A December Ditty—Alice Williams
Brotherton.


IMPROMPTU SONG-PRAYER.

			IN SOLITUDE.

O FATHER grant to me I pray
	Thy choicest, rarest blessing!
That I may be through every day
	In wisdom’s ways progressing;
That I may seek thy light divine,
	From mortal sins be free.
Let all my thoughts and hopes entwine
	Round virtue, truth, and Thee.

O Father grant to me I pray
	A victory o’er each failing,
That on that bright Eternal Day
	I’ll not be found bewailing—
Nor grieving o’er what might have been
	Had I but been more noble,
And placed my thoughts on Heavenly things,
	And not on worldly trouble,

O help me by thy powerful aid,
	O hear my prayer most fervent!
That in the end it may be said:
	“Well done thou faithful servant.”
For well I know this mortal sphere
	Is but a brief probation.
O may I then be faithful here,
	And gain an exaltation.
					E. R. SHIPP.


HE COMETH NOT.

	CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.

	IT was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing village in England early in 18—
and preparations for the usually gay
festivities were going forward; young men
and women were arranging the mistletoe and
holly in the prosperous homes of the work-
ing people, and in many of the cottages,
beer had been brewed by the prudent
housewives, who took care “the master”
should drink his good ale at home, instead
of joining his comrades at the village inn.
Everywhere it was plain to be seen that
the yearly Xmas festival was drawing nigh;
the one little Church ivy-covered outside
was profusely decorated within, and al-
ready the choristers dressed in their best
were wending their way thither to rehearse
the sublime choruses. 
	Not far from the church in one of the
most pretentious houses the village could
boast, there was bustle and confusion; the
Doctor’s gig stood by the gateway, and the
cottagers looked anxiously up and down,and

[Column 2]
inquired of each passer by, whether there
was any tidings yet from Mrs. Barton, for
the village folks were all “agate” to hear
the news; and each one wanted to be first
to carry the glad message if such it should
be (for the master was a great favorite, he’d
been “born among’em” they often said to
each other,) and there were no doubts in
their minds as to the object of Dr. Went-
worth’s visit.
	The evening grew late and still no word
came, the doors were shut, for it was bit-
ter cold, and there was sharp frost in the
air; the music from the Church rang out
clear and full of pathos;—and the village
children heeding not the cold, could be seen
in groups going here and there singing
snatches of Christmas melodies as they
threw from door to door sprays of holly.
When the hilarity had ceased and quiet
was settling down and while the Christmas
bells were ringing joyfully, nurse
Goodman came down the oaken staircase
in her soft slippers, her face beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door of the great dining room,
where the master sat by the open fire, un-
easy and restless, announced ere entering
the room “ye may’n come up n’ow Maister
Barton as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine son
born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells, and he’ll
be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he roared as
we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtain as
the Doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground, long after midnight, but at the
first gray dawn of morning the news that
an heir was born to Master Barton, flew
like wildfire from house to house. And
such a Christmas there had never been since
old Maister Barton’s time so the villagers
one and all declared. 
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, she was’nt their sort, “young
master should have wed one of the girls
from hereabouts, and not gone off to Bristol
for a stuck-up young woman, I doubt me
she’ll put fine notions into the lad’s head
when he grows up” said Mrs. Gentry to
her neighbor Janet Graham, after her first
visit to see the baby.
	“Now don’t be prophecyin evil to the lad, 
he’s to be Christened tomorrow, and Lizzie
tells me, the boy’s robe is two yards and a
half long, and the lace is old Venetian, and
his head is so thick covered with golden
curls, that Mrs. Barton told the nurse he
need’nt wear caps, (though they're all the
finest lace,) but nurse would’nt hear to it,
and our Lizzie says, as how Mrs. Barton
made herself sick a cryin and a frettin
about the caps.” Lizzie was Mrs. Graham’s
daughter, and a sort of lady’s maid of all
work to Mrs. Barton, and she was never
tired of repeating to her mother what her
mistress said and did, and Janet, as her
mother was always called, told everything
to Mrs. Gentry (with whom she never
agreed about anything however) for she had
a kind heart, and Mrs. Gentry was envious,
that young Barton had not taken to her
daughter Miriam, to whom he paid “great
attentions,” as she repeated over and over

[Column 3]
again till the whole village gossipped about
it; and “Miriam was so upset,’’ she declared,
“that she went off to her uncle’s, so’s no-
body should see she was cut up about the
marriage.” The truth was, she went away
until the gossip should die out, for she was
a sensible young woman, and young Barton
had really given her to understand what he
meant by, “the attentions,” Mrs. Gentry
talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day whoever heard the like” said
Mrs. Graham to Lizzie as the girl repeated
to her mother the scene at the Barton’s the
night before the Christening, on her visit
home afterwards. “Little you tho’t sittin
there in the Church so solemn-like, what a
fuss our young mistress had been making
with the master the night afore. Nurse
Goodman told the whole thing to me, she
would’nt think of his even having his fath-
er’s name as if Charles wasn’t a grand name,
when kings have borne it, as Master told
her; but no he must be called for her grand-
father the Admiral, and she had her way,
but I do think its a pretty name Shirley—
and nurse said as how, the master wanted
Miriam Gentry to be the child’s godmother,
and the mistress flew into a passion directly,
and she said, “Yes I’ve heard of your at-
tentions to that young woman, and a nice
scandal ’twould be if she were to be god-
mother, no, I’ve sent for Aunt Grace, and
she’ll be here presenlty,” and sure enough,
nurse said, just then the door bell rang, and
before Mrs. Barton had quieted down, Miss
Holton (Aunt Grace as she called her) had
her things off, and was in the room, and
such a flurry there was; but Mr. Barton
was as sober as a Judge, and never a word
did he say, so she had it all her own way,
and Master has scarcely spoken a syllable
in the house since."
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were and wishing them joy like that, and
she to think my Miriam not good enough
for godmother to the boy; (he’s a reg’lar
beauty for all that) and I doubt me he’ll
be as proud as a peacock, and lord it over
the workin men when he steps in his
father’s shoes.” replied Mrs. Gentry to
Janet Graham when she heard what Liz-
zie had told her mother, rehearsed to her as
soon as Janet could get time to run in; and
half the village knew the story before ’twas
a week old.
	Time went on, and the village prospered,
until it was quite a town, and Mr. Barton
who was the successor of his father and the
overseer at the Mills, grew rich, with one
invention and another, and his wife was as
haughty, as he was amiable; and as much
disliked as he was beloved. One more son
had been born to them, nine years after the
first, but he was a delicate boy, while
Shirley was strong and manly, and a greater
favorite than even his father had been.
Miriam Gentry remained single, and was
the boy’s first teacher,and strangely enough
as he grew up, he clung to her as his ideal;
which vexed his mother beyond expression;
and she contrived by all means in her pow-
er to keep Shirley from her, which only made
matters worse; Miriam had a younger sister
Charlotte who was a sort of musical genius,


[column 1]
a singer and could play the violin; and
Shirley would steal away and spend his
evenings there, singing and playing on the
flute to Lottie's violin while the stately
Miriam accompanied them on the piano.
	“He is only a boy and will outgrow this
childish love for girls so much older than
himself, I have no fears, besides he must
go to college, we can afford it.” said his
father on one occasion when Mrs. Barton
had been urging him to take some positive
measures to stop these visits.
	Mrs. Barton made up her mind that
Shirley should go at once, and set about the 
preparations; Mr. Barton was quite willing
for he felt the boy was far advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar all his teachers said, 
but knew he must undergo some discipline
beforehand, and it was finally decided he
should go to Bristol, his mother's native
City, and remain there a year under the
tutelage of a learned Professor, whom his
mother had known.
	The boy went away at last willingly;
though he had protested against going, and
had made more ado about leaving Miriam
than his own father and mother (of which
his mother was in blissful ignorance) but
his father guessed from hints dropped by
the elder Gentry, who was one of his
trusted men. The first few weeks Shirley
studied diligently and Professor Bradley
wrote glowing accounts of his young pupil
to the parents at M— but later on he in-
formed them the boy was passionately fond
of the sea, that his lessons were perfectly
learned, he had such a wonderful memory,
but his thoughts seemed far away. he was
absent-minded, and waking or dreaming it
was always the sea.
	“It is born in him and he can't help it;
undoubtedly Laura you’ve filled his head
with nursery tales of your grandfather, the
old Admiral, and you’ve hung those marine
views in every room in the house, to im-
press him with the greatness of your ances-
try; however I’ll write to Bradley to hur-
ry him off to the university, and he’ll have
something else to do than dream by the sea-
shore, his companions will cure him of idle
day-dreams,” said his father after reading
the Professor’s letter.
	“I’m sure Charles you blame me for all
the boy’s faults, its a great pity you hadn’t
married the Gentry girl, she’s no doubt
keeping herself single for you; it isn’t
enough to have won your affections,  but
she’s tried her coquetry on my boy to my
sorrow.”
	“This is too serious an accusation to
be passed over silently,” replied the hus-
band, “never mention Miriam Gentry’s
name again, I forbid it,” and Mr. Barton
walked off to his office, the first time since
his marriage, angry and in sullen silence.
	It was true he had admired Miriam as a 
sort of village sweetheart and let her know
it too before he met Laura Otway, but it
had not the ardor of true love; he had often
felt sorry that Miriam didn’t marry, but he
did not know (as men seldom ever do) that
she could never give herself to any other
man: such is woman’s love when once
given to her true mate, and yet Miriam had
never told of her constancy, it could only
be guessed by the magician's art, who un-
locks love’s secret cabinet and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time.
	Mrs. Barton fretted the live-long day,
she loved her husband, notwithstanding her
temper, and was proudly ambitious for her
son:—she wanted him to be a man of learn-
ing, high in the world’s favor; she cared lit-

[column 2]
tle for the true affection of the village
people, she seldom mingled with them; at
intervals she gave them out-door parties but
rarely appeared upon the scene herself.
Mr. Barton felt this keenly, for he loved the
people, he knew they were his true friends,
honest and loyal.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart, there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, love
to him had received a fatal wound.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than the division between hus-
band and wife. Just when the father had
been planning in his mind what changes
might take place at Shirley's vacation, a
letter from the Professor came bringing the
sad news that Shirley had disappeared, “he
has taken nothing with him, and we have
had every one of his old haunts searched,
but no trace of him can be found, we are
ourselves deeply afflicted, for he has greatly
endeared himself to us and was most
respectful and affectionate to us all, but our
hearts are much more deeply grieved for
yourself and his poor mother;” so the letter
read.
	The clerk in the office looked up as he
heard the sobs of this great strong-minded
man, his master, when he read the letter,
but Mr. Barton took no notice, “shut the
office at the usual hour, say I have gone
home, I shall not come back today,” he said
as he rose abruptly the open letter in his
hand. “You have bad news, Mr. Barton,
I am sorry, believe me, can I do anything
for you? Can I help you, shall I call a cab?
you look so broken up,” said the kind-
hearted clerk.
	“No, I will walk, the air will do me good,
besides I can think better.” Yes he had
need to think, how could he tell the lad’s
mother, she would swoon perhaps; he could
not bear to go home, he walked away into 
the fields, he remembered the sayings of
Shirley’s boyhood, “Papa I shall go to sea,
and be a great Captain, and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming
ocean.
	The twilight came on while he strolled
about the fields, and when he turned home-
ward the lights were streaming from the
cottage windows. “I must go in and tell
Laura, our boy has runaway” he said to
himself, and he hastened as one does, bent
on a hateful errand, lest he should not have
the courage if he loitered. Supper was
ready and Laura and little Richard were
waiting his coming—he knew he could not
eat, but Laura must have her tea, and he
took a cup, but his hand shook, and his
wife said, noticing his manner, “Are you
ill Charles?” “No, only upset, I shall
soon be better.” Has there been a distur-
bance at the mills, those men grow restless
towards pay day, I’ve noticed?” “Nothing
has gone wrong at the mills, I’ve had a let-
ter from Bristol, about Shirley.” “Has
he gone wrong, tell me the worst,” said
Mrs. Barton excitedly. “I can’t tell you, I
don’t know myself” and he handed her the
letter; but she did not faint, or even weep
as she read on “this is the old story over
again” she said, “he’s gone to sea undoubt-
edly, he knew we would not consent, and
so he’s gone without it. We shall hear
from him soon, when he is far away, so we
cannot bring him back, he will take no
harm, he was born to the music of the Xmas
bells; rather a sea Captain than the over-

[column 3]
seer of these humdrum mills.” Mr. Barton,
took Richard in his arms, as though for
comfort, such a frail child, and said, “we’ll
go up stairs Mrs. Barton, I must answer
this letter tonight,” and without more ado
they left the supper room.
	Mr. Barton wrote to the shipping mer-
chants at Bristol for particulars of the ship’s
crew on board the vessels that had sailed
about that time; and to the Professor to spare
no means to find out whither his boy had
gone; hearing nothing satisfactory he set
off himself for Bristol making diligent
search but all in vain.
	Christmas came but out of respect to Mr.
Barton the villagers refrained from any
public demonstrations; and indeed, the
young man’s fate was truly lamented; and
many a tear fell, whenever his name was
spoken. Even Mrs. Barton began to des-
pond as time wore on, and no news came of
her darling boy; she had been hopeful at
first, but as day after day she watched and
waited she grew pale, and sleepless, and 
finally so melancholy that Dr. Wentworth
advised the sea shore, and Mr. Barton con-
sented to her going. “I shall be nearer if
he comes back, and more likely to hear
something and you shall know im-
mediately,” she said to her husband the
morning of her departure; Aunt Grace had
come to travel with her, as Mr. Barton
could not leave his business just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be, I always said
her pride would have a fall,” said old Mrs.
Gentry when she heard Mrs. Barton had
gone, “he’ll never come back to her, he’s
dead most like, and that boy Richard will
never live to be a man, she’s punished severe
enough for looking down on them as made
their money for em.”
	“Now Bessie that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened, what does
the Bible say Bessie, read about Job, how
he was afflicted, mind don’t go agin scrip-
tur. There’s not a better man livin than
Charlie Barton, I’ve known him since he
were a weelad, and as for Shirley you can’t
say there was any evil in him.”
	“No dad I dont say anything about 
Shirley, but its the stuck-up Bristol woman,
but she’ll suffer for’t ‘pride must have a fall’
that’s scripture ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly Bessie, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Miriam has always felt
about Shirley, she’s sure he’ll come back
sometime.”
	“Well yes maybe and Lottie will be mar-
ried and gone, and she set such store by
him, and I don’t see why I should be sorry
for ’em, they’ve brung me no end o’trouble,
what with Miriam bein in love with
Charlie, as she’ll never git over it, and Lot-
tie with Shirley, I’m the one as is to be
pitied.”
	“Lottie’s love weren’t very deep I should
think when she’s sweet on Jim Graham
a’ready, and you talkin of her marryin
soon yoursel.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and done
with’t I don’t want another old maid in the
family.”
	“Better have old maids than had hus-
bands for our girls; but I’ve no objections
to Jim Graham, he’s a fine lad and a good-
ish family, and we know’em for what they
are, they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Gentry to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman but she
was not fond of “bettermost people,” un-


[Column 1]
less they were very amiable. As for Shirley
he had never once thought of loving Lottie:
but he adored her sister, who was really
old enough to be his mother; of marriage
however, he had not even dreamed.
	Three long years had gone by and no
news of Shirley Barton, of all the ships
that had sailed out of Bristol most of them
had come back heavy laden and gone out
again, but still his mother hoped on, she
had grown stronger and returned to her
home at M—and though a sort of gloom
pervaded the place, at Christmas and holi-
day times, yet usually cheerfulness pre-
vailed and the Bartons were scarce ever 
without visitors from Bristol.
	It was at Christinas time three years and
more after Shirley’s absence, and the Bar-
ton homestead was filled with Bristol
people, mostly young folks, relatives and
friends, who were desirous of seeing a
Xmas festival in a village and Mr. and Mrs.
Barton had made preparations to have as
many of the people from the mills as could
be accommodated. The dinner was to be at
five, but as the day was cloudy, lamps were
lighted early, and gaiety seemed to reign
within and without. The Gentrys and
Grahams were there, and many others from
the mills; Mrs. Barton seemed herself
again, so old Dr. Wentworth remarked to
Miriam, to whom of late he had been de-
voted; but Miriam and Mr. Barton both
seemed restless. The dinner was over and
toasts were being given, but it was awk-
ward; the guests all seemed not to know
exactly what was most fitting to propose, for
each one present realized the absence of the
long-lost son, who would have been the
life of the company; in fact the sorrow on
his account had been general.
	Dr. Wentworth lifted his glass and was
about to speak, he had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son—when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upou
the scene; fresh and blooming in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat in hand,
the golden curls tossed back, and collar
thrown open, displaying a neck bronzed with
sun and wind. All eyes were fixed upon
him, and many a glass dropped from the
hands that held them shivering to atoms,
but Dr. Wentworth came to the rescue,
(for not a word had been spoken it was like
the dead come back again) “here’s to the
long lost lad returned to gladden hearts
and home: speak Shirley to your mother
and father." Coming out of the darkness
into the brilliant light, Shirley was dazed
and he was totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he come in unan-
nounced to surprise the family, thinking it
would be only a small party, though he had
noticed the brilliant lights, but when he
saw the villagers, many whom he had
known intimately, he was bewildered and
speechless; he grasped the situation, how-
ever, and graciously withdrew followed by
his father, mother and Richard. Very lit-
tle was said, the company dispersed, the
guests retired to their apartments, and
Shirley who was much in need of rest but
could not sleep, sat long by the dusky fire-
light when all the lamps were out, talk-
ing of his adventures to the eager listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, he said, but he loved to see the ships
sail out and talk to the sailors, he was down
at the wharf, and had been beguiled into
one of the many drinking places, where a
crowd of fine, strong men were taking grog, 
before going on board a great whaling ves-
el, that was at anchor close by; he wanted

[Column 2]
to see them off, he drank with one of the
lads, a fine young fellow, about his own
age; and then went on board with him in-
tending to get ashore again very soon, but
he fell asleep, and when he awoke, all was
dark, and he could not recall where he was,
or how he came to be in such a strange
place: for he could feel the motion of the
vessel and grew dizzy when he tried to rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days on
board that vessel can never be told, the re-
morse of conscience, the mortification, the
despair; many times I prayed to die, I felt
I could never meet my father, or mother,
or any of my former friends again. We
had a fine Captain, he blamed the young
man, Ralph Rathburn, for bringing me on
board, until, I was so sorry for Ralph that
I began to be reconciled to my fate. He
mourned for me too, poor fellow, and he
tried to make up for it in every way pos-
sible. He taught me how to do my work
and I had the tact and skill necessary to get
on. We were always good friends, and no
matter where we put ashore, he would show
me around and entertain me after the true
sailor style. And sailors have good hearts
after all even though their ways are rough,
their manners uncouth, and their use of the
King’s English is beyond description.
There were many unpleasant experiences
for a fellow brought up tenderly as I had
been, but Captain Lamb noticed this and
gave me the easiest places and, as you see,
I improved so rapidly, and displayed so
much courage, and such an adventurous
spirit at times, that he promoted me, when
our mate (who was not over strong at the
beginning of the voyage) was quite unable
to keep on duty; and I cannot say but my
great grandfather having been an Admiral
in His Majesty’s service had something to
do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Shirley’s return were on the most magnifi-
cent plan ever known in M—and the
whole village was in a state of joyful ex-
citement. The very garb he wore was a
decided attraction to the young people, we
who live in this day and in an inland
country know comparatively little of how the
sailor dress fascinates people especially the
young. Scores of girls fell in love with
Shirley Barton, and he was jovial and
courteous with them all, but there were
three who were so much enamored of him
that they watched with envy and jealousy
the attentions he bestowed on others and
especially one, who as they put it, “couldn’t
compare with those in his own vicinity.”
She was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive
to her own sex, (who were for the most
part envious of her) notwithstanding her
plain appearance and her poverty, yet the
young men admired her, she could talk
well, dance well, and her voice was
singularly pathetic.
	“Think of Shirley Barton being en-
gaged to Miss Morton and he has only
seen her twice,” said spiteful Susan Del-
more to her two friends Octavia Willis and
Eugenia Somers, the trio they were called,
all well to do, and girls of style and the tip
top of society in M. they boasted on oc-
casions that their fathers were not in Mr.
Barton’s employ, but in business, and their
mothers had never worked for their living
not even as governesses, in fact they were
well connected as the world goes.
	But be this as it may, Shirley fell in love
at first sight with Miss Morton; his mother
fretted and fumed, but all to no purpose,
his father said nothing, but allowed him to

[Column 3]
do as he pleased. Finally when it became
apparent that the young man was deter-
mined to marry the girl of his choice, if he
could persuade her, which was not such an
easy matter, and after Mrs. Barton had used
her utmost endeavors to dissuade him from
it, and implored his father to forbid the
marriage, (which she declared was partly
due to the interference of Miriam Gentry)
“who seemed ever her evil genius,” she
said, she consoled herself with thinking it
would keep him at home, and she took the
first opportunity to advise him to bring Miss
Morton to the house. By much persausion
and entreaty she at last consented to “beard
the lioness,” so to speak for she was in
mortal dread of Mrs. Barton.
	Once within the Barton home Shirley
never left her for a moment, lest his mother
should frighten her away, for she was as
timid as a bird, and almost as fragile. Mrs.
Barton looked her over and inquired
minutely into her pedigree, every now and
then, saying “Humph so he was your
uncle, she was your grandmother,” with
anything but an approving manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morton, Mrs. Bar-
ton was more obstinate about the marriage,
"she has no sort of family reputation to fall
back upon, she is only a village girl for all
her fine manners and attainments; I wish
Shirley you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes, and the
girl is really not of good family, go to
Bristol and prepare for college under Profes-
sor Bradley, he will take you back again,
you may marry among the best, your
father’s wealth is an inducement for any
girl and you will surely regret it if you take
this child, without either money or ances-
try.” “But Mamma she is lovely, she sings
like an angel,” said Richard, “I love her
more now than Shirley, I wish I could mar-
ry Eleanor myself no one should hinder
me.” “Who told you her name Richard?”
enquired Shirley. “She told me, and said
could call her sister and I will in spite of
Mamma who dislikes her and she knows it,
besides she’s not so much in love with
Shirley, its only his imperious manner, and
she hopes to win him over to love home and
the country and leave off sea-faring which
will make him coarse, and wean him from
those who love him so devotedly.” “O, is
this all little man,” said Shirley, “we shall
see what this young woman can do anon.
I am not jealous of my little brother but no
one else must interfere. I must be the sole
possessor of this lovely village maiden, who
is without anything to recommend her, save
her innocence and purity.”
	And they were married within three
months at the little church in E—where
Eleanor Morton’s parents were born and
had died. Mrs. Barton would not con-
descend to witness the ceremony though
the young people came home as soon as the
wedding was over.
	One year of love’s sweet young dream;
and of intense sorrow too for the bride, and
she fled from the home that was unbearable
to her sensitive nature, to Miriam Gentry
for protection. She would not go to her
grandma, to burden her with sorrow, father
and mother were both dead, she had not
brother or sister; Mrs. Barton had made
her life unendurable; she had professed
everything and fulfilled nothing. “Such a
child, she can never be really a wife or a
mother.” Richard pined for her society al-
most as much as Shirley himself—“Let her
be ’ said Mrs. Barton “she’ll come back of
		[Continued on Page 221.]


HE COMETH NOT.

	[Continued From Page 219.]
her own accord, but if you go after her
Shirley coaxing her she’ll be trying the
same thing again doubtless,” Richard was
positively forbidden to go, but Mr. Barton
advised Shirley to take a house separate
from his mother, as she would never con-
sent to any of the family, visiting Miriam
Gentry. ‘‘Poor little woman” said the
kind-hearted man, she needs sympathy now
and Miriam is overflowing with kindness
and love, she is the very person to whom
one can go with trouble. The only one
my boy who never gave you up when you
were away so long.”
	Eleanor would not write to Shirley, he
had tried to defend his mother to his wife,
and had made matters worse, and so the
young wife waited, weeping and hysterical.
	‘‘A pretty scandal this will make” said
Mrs. Gentry to Miriam “taking in Shirley’s
wife, I have no patience with such non-
sense.” “Hush mother for pity’s sake,”
said Miriam, “she will hear you, her ears
are so quick to catch a sound,” but it was
already too late, she had heard and felt the
sting; and trembling in every limb and
weak from excessive grief, she put on her
hat and cloak disguising herself as much
as possible went down the garden walk and
was away upon the high road, long before
any one knew she had left the house.
Miriam was not aware of it until she went
into the room with a dainty lunch to try
and tempt her appetite. When she saw
the room deserted she felt positive why she
had fled, but without one word put on her
own things to try and find her. The search
was vain and she sent her little brother
with a message to Shirley but Mrs. Barton
intercepted the note, and though the young 
husband was nearly distracted, the mother
did not relent. When Miriam found
Shirley took no notice of her message and
did not come, she waited for the dawn of
day and commenced inquiries on her own
account, before noon Mr. Barton had heard
that Eleanor had gone away alone no one
knew whither. For the first time in his
life Shirley was severely reprimanded by
his father, and Mrs. Barton who heard the
stinging rebuke, said placidly, “She’s gone
to her grandma whom she adores more than
any one in all the world.” Before she
could say more Shirley had left the house
forever. I will find her dead or alive he
soliloquized why have I been so foolish,
Miriam must know I’m going in search of
her, and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked towards the station and mailed it to
Miriam expressing the wildest love for his
wife and the strongest friendship and grati-
tude to herself.
	Young Mrs. Barton had taken a night
train for Bristol and gone to that large city
instead of going home, in fact she could not
go direct, not even by coach, she had
thought of walking but was too weak to
undertake it, and the idea of self-destruc-
tion had never entered her mind. She was
not without money and had brought with
her all her jewelry. Shirley went to Bris-
tol, too and from one inn to another for he


[column 1]
felt she would not tell her grandma of her
unhappiness as she had warned her against
marrying a young man fond of the seas.
	Shirley found his wife at last, found her
in the great seaport, Bristol, he had searched
one whole week, and left no method un-
tried, she was suffering greatly from over
anxiety and worry and a Doctor had been
called by the woman in whose house she
had taken lodgings. Shirley was wild
with joy, and yet tortured with mental
pain, lest serious harm would come to her
after all; she scarcely realized how matters
stood so unstrung were her nerves, and so
over excited her brain. “Send for her
mother,” the physician had said when call-
ed in; and the mistress of the house had
answered, “she has no mother, but she is
married, see she wears a ring.” 
	“Then call her husband here im-
mediately,” was his reply, but before many
hours had elapsed he came. 
	Shirley dispatched a note to Miriam
Gentry, only these words “Come without
delay, Eleanor is very ill, she may die,”
signed “Shirley.” Miriam was soon there
and in charge, and very shortly after a babe
was born and the pale, sweet child-mother
called her Miriam from her birth. Eleanor
was happy now notwithstanding what she
had suffered, and recovered speedily.
Shirley was anxious to take her back to
M——but she said “No! Never! take me
to E——to my grandma now, and I will
try to be content.” So Miriam, Shirley, and
baby set off in the stage coach one cold
morning and were put down at Grandma
Morton’s door not many hours after; the
old lady’s delight was exhilarating when
she saw the happy party arrive: she had
heard nothing of the troubles of her
darling. “No more parting now, I shall
never dare lose sight of you again,” said
Shirley, when he saw the love she expressed
for her grandma; but he did not measure
his own strength correctly; Miriam believed
in him, so did Eleanor; but his resolves
were vain; he was too near the sea; his
mother reproached him with ingratitude,
and Richard was lying ill nigh unto death,
“leave Eleanor with the nurse and come to
us,” his mother wrote. But Shirley could
not, he worried was perplexed and rest-
less, “the sea will bear me away out of all
this, Miriam will look to baby and Eleanor,
I will go aboard a merchantman, a few
months voyage around the Meditterranean,
and when I return all will have settled
down to quiet." And so he sailed away for
a few months leaving Miriam in charge of
all his household treasures. Grandma was
there too and Nellie as he had endearingly
called her since her illness, she seemed
such a child, had consented to his having a
change, besides he must earn money, he
would not accept it from his father while
his mother declared that unless he returned
to M——with his wife and child he should
never have a penny with her consent, his
father had remitted sufficent to pay all ex-
penses so far and even more, but Mrs. Mor-
ton was poor and his wife must have
delicacies. And Shirley sailed away brave
true-hearted and strong intending to return
in a short time. At first all went well,
Miriam went back to M—and answered all
the numerous questions of neighbors but
Mrs. Barton would not condescend to in-
quire. Mr. Gentry informed the elder Bar-
ton his employer at the first opportunity
giving him full particulars, which he repeated 
to Richard, promising to take him to see

[column 2]
the baby and Eleanor as soon as he was well.
Richard grew worse and his mother becom-
ing really alarmed wrote to Aunt Grace at
Bristol to come; and to try to get Shirley’s
wife to allow her to bring the baby, in fact
she wanted the child; and added “do per-
suade Eleanor to give the baby to me. then
she can help herself I hear they are very
poor.” Mrs. Barton wanted possession of
the child; then to influence Shirley to return
home if possible, and she cared not what
should become of the little mother. Miss
Holton went to E——and interviewed
young Mrs. Barton, but to no purpose.
She was respectful but firm, “upon no ac-
count would I give my child into her keep-
ing, I would rather beg my bread from
door to door.” Miss Holton was amazed
when Eleanor’s grandma came in to be in-
troduced, to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of years before,
and many reminiscences were recalled to
each of those mature women and the day
was a pleasant one after all. When Aunt
Grace arrived at M——Richard was sinking
rapidly, but as soon as she could she told
Mrs. Barton, “Eleanor comes of a fine old
Bristol family, her grandmother was at
school with me there one of the most charm-
ing girls, married a brilliant officer, a wid-
ow now with a moderate income and as
grand as a Duchess in appearance.” “But
the child Aunt Grace, can I have her? I
shall be left childless you see, Richard can-
not live.”
	It was hard for Aunt Grace, who loved
her niece to see her in grief, but she must
speak plainly, “No Laura you never will,
have that child unless the mother should
die.”
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Barton home; a mound
in the churchyard was all that remained of
the frail child so beloved; there was no tid-
ings of Shirley, nor of his young wife and
babe. Aunt Grace stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Barton of household cares and comfort
her, in her great affiction, and Mr Barton
plunged into his business affairs trying to
drown his sorrows.
	Years went by and but few changes came,
Eleanor lived on, some letters had come,
full of more adventures and extended
voyages at sea, but as Shirley sailed from
place to place, stopping only at seaport
towns, her letters so full of love and hope
never reached him; “He cometh not” she
repeated over and over when alone; and he
began to despair; he wrote to his mother,
telling her he was now Master of a vessel
Captain Shirley Barton asking her to give
him some news of his wife and child; but
she never even sent the message to them
and this was the last ever heard from him
direct. Long years after when little
Miriam was grown to womanhood and
Eleanor had made for herself a competence,
an honored name, though a fictitious one,
by her pen. Miriam Gentry always faith-
ful learned from Mrs. Barton, (who now that
her husband was dead, no longer feared
Miriam’s influence) that Shirley was dead.
Miriam determined to unravel the secret
which had been kept from his wife and
child, and she succeeded; by means of win-
ning the confidence of Aunt Grace now al-
most in her dotage.
	It was Christmas eve twenty years after
the date of Shirley’s return to M—— and
Miriam a confirmed old maid over forty.
Her sister Lottie had half a dozen children
and Mrs. Gentry had past away. Miriam
kept her father’s house; she had made up

[column 3]
her mind not to write to Eleanor but to go
on a visit to E—— leaving her father in
Lottie’s care to have Xmas with the
children; there was sure to be a happy party
for Mr. and Mrs. Graham and Lizzie (who
had married well) with her husband and
little ones would be there, so Miriam set off
arriving at E. the day before Xmas. As
soon as affectionate greetings were over be-
tween the two. “My Miriam has had
strange forbodings and peculiar dreams,”
said Eleanor to Miriam Gentry, “I hope
your coming is the fulfillment, I feel that
something must be pending, and I dread
any great change. my grandma’s death,
though sad for us, has left us independent,
I am going to take a long rest, perhaps go
out to India, I fancy some way that Shirley
is there.” Miriam Gentry sighed, “Why
do you sigh surely you have no news of
him or you would have written?” Miriam
scarce knew how to tell the story she had
come to unfold. Eleanor saw it in her ex-
pression, and said, “Miriam is the news
you bring good or ill, tell me qnickly?”
“Neither but very important especially so
to Miriam. Her father died years ago, and
she is the only heir to Mr. Barton’s wealth.”
“Go on” said Eleanor “I can bear all now
nothing more can come to me from him, I
always feared he would not come, it is all
over now.”
	“Yes he died true to you Eleanor and
hoped to come to you—died in far away
Bombay on Christmas eve, so young not
yet thirty and you still hoping and teaching
Miriam to love him.”
	“How do you know all this, and are you
sure? He cannot be dead, Shirley Barton
my baby’s father dead and we not know it;
so strong, and me so frail, and still alive,
through all these weary, dreary years of
mourning. I will not believe it until I
have the proof.”
	“A sad Christmas for you and Miriam but
alas life itself is sad and full of mysteries.”
	“Indeed Miriam, but there are true hearts
and noble souls and you have proven one
among a thousand, stay with me always
Miriam you loved Charles Barton and
Shirley for his sake, we will share all with
you if you will stay with us, we need you
most,” just then the younger Miriam
entered the room her golden curls and fair
brow so like Shirley’s, “O Aunt Miriam
here, how lovely, I dreamed of her last
night, that she brought us precious jewels
so dazzling and brilliant that our eyes were
blinded with tears, and when we opened
them again, the casket of jewels held only
pale ashes.”
	“It is true ‘ashes to ashes’ our jewels of
love and memory have turned to ashes, and
Miriam brings today instead of ‘Peace on
earth,’ Peace to his ashes, far away, your
father sleeps in fair Bombay. But ere
another year rolled round the estate was
settled, and Miriam, Eleanor and her fair
daughter knelt at Shirley’s grave, strewing
it with flowers on the next Christmas Eve.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1894.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.
	
	THE year is nearing its close, and brings
with its departing days thoughts of what
has taken place, or perchance of what might
have been happier times, had one only
realized the importance of the actual present.
Are we better for the experience gained?
We are apt to ask ourselves. Have we
materially improved in excellence in any
one virtue? Are we more charitable, or
 more sympathetic? Have we reached out
and broadened our sphere of action? What
have we done for the betterment of human-
ity? Every individual person who is
actuated by correct motives in any degree,
must naturally pause and consider as the 
year grows old, some one or more of these
natural individual questions.
	Looking at the dear old world as it is
(for after all it is a good world made beauti-
ful for the human race) one cannot help be-
ing meditative and contemplating seriously
life in its various phases, as one after an-
other the years roll on filling up the period
of mother Earth's great age; and noting the
many great changes in material things
that from time to time make the sum of pro-
gress far beyond the general expectation, 
though scarcely realizing the ideal of those,
who see far into the future. The little
that one alone can do seems too insignificent
to be considered, in contrast with what is 
going on daily, the world over, and what is
expected of the mass of mankind. And 
yet each one adds something, if it be only
a deed of kindness, a word of encourage-
ment to the desolate, a prayer for the sor-
rowing; any sweetness to the bitter
cup which many fellow-mortals have dealt
out to them in overflowing draughts. The 
brave heart, the generous soul, helps by its
very courage to stimulate another. It is 
not all in giving, there are other expres-
sions of one’s goodness besides the bestowal
of gifts, be they ever so acceptably offered.
	In this matter of fact age it is barely
possible we lay too much stress upon
material things; we have come to consider
money or its equivalent, necessary to hap-
piness, and yet our Savior said, “take no
thought for the morrow.” “Consider the
lilies of the field” etc. There are many
who will say, we must not take this in its
literal meaning; but is it not true that man-
kind at the present are passing through
what must inevitably be called “the mon-
ey age," the greed for money is really so
decidedly uppermost. So far as money
serves a wise purpose, and is not the master
instead of the servant, it may be well, but
when it takes the place of all sentiment,

[column 2]
when it is worshipped, then is the world in
danger of bankruptcy of all that is best for
humanity. Conscience, purity, upright-
ness, virtue, true love, reverence for the
highest and most sacred things, all those
are, in many instances, lost sight of in the
race for gold and some saving principle
must needs be brought to bear, to turn the
tide, and save the world from ruin that to
the highly spiritual mind seems imminent.
	It is good that time is marked off in
periods, that there is an old and a new year,
when a portion of the people will stop and
think of the past and the future. It is
glorious to have such days as Christmas and
New Year’s, when one thinks of “peace
and goodwill,” and when there is a greater
flow of love in human hearts, and some-
times forgiveness of each other,and reconcilia-
tions and memories come back that make
us tender and devotional.
	It may be possible there is too much feast-
ing and merriment, and too little that is
elevating in tone and character. Music
especially, sublime and sacred music, seems
always the proper expression of the deepest
and most reverential emotions of the soul;
the nearest akin to the divine element in
one’s nature, ,and yet how little of it one
hears nowadays on such occasions. The
Psalmist said, “A song of praise is a prayer
unto the Lord.” Long ago in the homes
of the people hymns were sung at prayer
time, they were a part of the family wor-
ship morning and evening. In how many
homes is that good old custom observed
now? Very few perhaps, but it has for the
most part gone out of fashion.
	During this year just past think of the
desolation and destruction made by cruel
war—nation against nation. And the
many terrible calamities that have befallen
people, and cities and islands made desolate
have we not here in Zion in the vales of the
mountains, reason to be grateful to our
Father in Heaven for his protecting care
that has been over us?
	In the New Year about to dawn the
people of Utah anticipate a great change
from the limited conditions of a Territory to
Statehood and it is the proud hope of every
true citizen that wisdom from above may
guide those who have been delegated to
frame the new constitution and that the
whole people men and women alike may
thereafter enjoy the full rights and privileges
of citizenship.


MR. LAMBOURNE’S NEW BOOK.

	THE new book just issued for the holidays
by Alfred Lambourne resident of this city
and widely known here and elsewhere,
author, artist and story teller is beautiful
enough in the quality of paper, type and
binding to please the most fastidious taste.
The book has been brought out in Boston,
and is artistic in every respect. The story
is of the Rocky Mountains, our own dear
snow-capped everlasting hills, and is grace-
fully and tenderly written, and most ex-
quisitely illustrated. The book as a whole
inside and out, is suitable for the most
elegant drawing-room, or library table, and
withal the tale is graciously intermingled
with lofty sentiments and purity of language.
The title befits the subject, and blends
harmoniously with the pen sketches, and
characteristic pictures “Plet A Christmas
Tale of the Wasatch.” The characters are
true to life, and the descriptive parts of scenery
and of incidents, are most delightfully


written, although some are very pathetic.
To those who have lived in the mountains
it is intensely realistic, and to the lovers of
a good story well told, it must have great
attractions. The author has given much
time and labor—to the preparations of this
work of his mind and brain, and it is to be
hoped that lovers of fine art in composition
and material finish, will appreciate the book,
and that it will find ready sale among this
class of people. Authors write for the
future as well as the present: but the
publishers must be paid, if the writer lives
on dreams and fancies of his own vivid
magination, or starves in a garret as many
have done.
	The citizens of Salt Lake who talk so
much of home industry should also
recognize home talent and give full value
to the work of the brain, as well as the
work of the hands.
	Meantime let us hope in good faith, that
the book may sell well and the author
realize his great labor has been a financial,
as well as an artistic success. There are
many people in the community who can af-
ford expensive luxuries, and in good books
one is sure of returns for money invested.
if it were possible to say more for the book,
the writer would gladly do so, but the story
must be read to be appreciated, and one
does not like to know the contents of a
book beforehand, as it spoils in a great
measure the pleasure of the reader.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RELIEF SOCIETY matter also W. S. A.
minutes are crowded out of the present
number of the paper to make room for the
Christmas story, but will come in after the
holidays.
	THE new blanks for Relief Society Re-
ports and also new books for keeping ac-
counts properly, are now ready and for sale
at the Deseret News Office. Every Society
should have these new books, which are so
perfectly adapted to the use of the Society
and have been prepared expressly for that
purpose. Send and get them at once.
Remember that each Society should report
the entire year 1894 from January 1—to
December 31—and the Secretaries of each
Stake prepare one for the General Secretary
to reach here before the middle of February
1895.
	MISS PHOEBE COUZINS, of St. Louis, the
famous lawyer and lecturer of National
reputation will be in our city now very
soon and will probably give one or two
lectures while here if satisfactory arrange-
ments can be made; Miss Couzins is a silver-
ite and has decided views of her own in re-
gard to general public questions, and is
fearless in expressing her opinions, that is
she has the courage of her convictions.
The women of Utah owe her some grati-
tude for speaking publicly against their
disfranchisement and at a time when our
people were most unpopular. We hope the
ladies of Salt Lake will show to Miss
Couzins during her stay in this City they
have not forgotten her able defense of the
Utah women in times past, and will show
her kind attentions while she tarries in our
midst, that she may carry away with her
pleasant recollections.


MISS AMELIA E. BARR is in Europe,
where she will spend the winter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
				UTAH.
REPORT TO CONVENTION FEBRUARY 1894
   
	THE year 1893 was so much of it de-
voted to the Columbian Exposition that
there is less to report of actual suffrage
work. But we might truthfully say that
the entire tendency of all that was accom-
plished was in that direction. Utah may
be justly proud (among other things) of her
silk exhibit made in the Woman’s Building
at Jackson Park. This industry per-
manently established will help women in
the future to become self-supporting, and
will also be remunerative to the territory as
well as to the producer. Recently the com-
-mittee of women, who prepared the silk
exhibit for the World’s Fair, formulated a
petition and had it presented to the Leg-
slative Assembly (now in session) asking
for a bounty on cocoons, and a bill has also
been introduced urging the granting of the
same, the ladies having appeared before
committees where they had the opportunity
of speaking upon the matter as a woman’s
measure, which practically illustrates the
need of representation by means of votes as
well as influence.
	The interest taken by the women of the
territory in the work of the present Legisla-
ture clearly proves that they are becoming
conscious of the needs of the hour. In
several places the W. S. A. officers have
called a special meeting to consider ob-
jectionable bills, and have prepared and
adopted resolutions protesting against exces-
sive taxation and other things of which
they disapprove This public expression
of opinion shows that women are fully
awakened to the injustice of being governed
without their consent, and taxed without
representation.
	In consequence of the financial depres-
sion caused by the depreciation of silver
and subsequent closing of silver mines in
this Western country, women citizens in
Salt Lake City, called a mass meeting,
which was held July 27th, and prepared a
memorial to Congress and had it numerously
signed, setting forth the facts in an able
manner, and asking for favorable legisla-
tion on the silver question; the addresses
were patriotic and telling. This meeting,
which was crowded to overflowing, was in-
directly a step towards suffrage, for many
of those present realized how much more
potent the effort would have been had these
earnest women been voters. The foremost
women of the movement had never given
the question of the ballot any serious
thought.
	The women of Utah are powerless to a
certain extent, and cannot have the same
enthusiasm in the suffrage cause, knowing
that a law of Congress took away the fran-
chise, and therefore the Legislature, how-
ever willing, cannot restore it until Con-
gress revokes the act or Utah becomes a
state.
	The present Legislature has presented a
bill proposing that one or more women
(a minority) shall be appointed on boards of
education, insane asylums and reform in- 
stitutions. The bill passed the House and
is still pending in the council.
	October 5th the annual convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah and election of officers
was held, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, the
very able and efficient President, resigned
on account of ill health. Mrs. E. B. Wells
was unanimously elected by ballot to fill the
vacancy. Mrs. Wells offered a resolution

[column 2]
to the effect that because of Mrs. Kimball’s
faithful and diligent labors in the interest
of the association, she should be made
Honorary President for life; which was car-
ried by the entire assembly.
	In August the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and the Utah W. S. A. gave a lawn
party, at which time (as on many other
occasions) the whole tendency was in favor
of suffrage. Hon. George Q. Cannon, for
many years delegate to Congress from this
territory, delivered an eloquent and forcible
address on the subject.
	An assembly of women under the
auspices of the Territorial W. S. A. was
held February 3, 1894, and was very largely
attended by both men and women; the ob-
ject being to awaken an interest on the
question under consideration and give to
passive and indifferent people some sound
and wholesome reasons for the faith and
hope of the believers in woman suffrage.
Logical and vigorous speeches were made
by both men and women, Hon. John E.
Booth, of the present Legislative Assembly,
making the principal address.
	We are very much blessed here in having
a woman’s newspaper in which minutes of
meetings of the W. S. A. in all parts of
the territory appear from time to time, and
there is always a woman suffrage depart-
ment especially devoted to information on
this important subject. The Deseret Eve-
ning News and Salt Lake Herald (the last a
morning paper) (dalies) are always willing
to publish news of importance for the suf-
frage association and are on the right side
of the question. Besides these city papers
there are a dozen or more newspapers,
weeklies and semi-weeklies, in the several
counties, willing to publish any matter
favorable to the cause. So as far as press
notices go, we are well supported. Our
new Press Committee this year are young
women—Miss Mary M. Wells, chairman—
and we feel confident of their ability to do
good work in this direction.
	I have tried to ascertain how large a pro-
portion of the taxes in the territory are paid
by women, but have only succeeded in
gathering reliable information from one
county, where it is stated 45 per cent, of
the tax is paid by women who own their
own homes or are property holders, yet
have no vote or voice in controlling mat-
ters pertaining thereto.
	The sixteen counties where auxiliary as-
sociations have been organized, are general-
ly holding regular meetings and doing good
work; the advice given them this year has
been to ask permission to meet with the
county boards of education and get practical
ideas and knowledge of the methods of
action, so as to become familiar with the
rules and regulations of procedure in such
work, as in all probability the positions on
school boards will be the first offices to
which women will be elected when the
franchise is extended to them.
	Our semi-annual convention will be held
in April, at which time we hope to be able
to give such instruction and information as
may be received from the general conven-
tion at Washington. We have great
anticipation for the present year, realizing
as we do, most emphatically, that whether
women are ready or not for the ballot,
universal suffrage will soon be accorded to
the women of this nation; and it behooves
all who have the matter at heart to be
diligent in season and out of season, to
create a public sentiment favorable to wise
action in the premises, when the long looked

[column 3]
for opportunity shall arrive. Success to
the honest endeavors of all who are laboring
with zeal and enthusiasm in the cause so
dear to the heart of humanity.
	Respectfully submitted,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

	IN accordance with a resolution passed at
the last meeting of our Association in
Washington, the Twenty-seventh Annual
Convention of the National-American Wo-
man Suffrage Association will be held in
Atlanta, Georgia, in De Give’s Opera
House, January 31 to February 5.
	The object of these conventions is to


educate women into a knowledge of their
rights and duties as citizens of a republic,
and through them to arouse the nation to a
sense of the national wrong perpetrated by
the disfranchisement of half the people of
the United States, in opposition to the 
principles of government declared by our
laws and constitutions.
	While Colorado's full enfranchisement of
women, in 1893. is encouraging, the defeat
of the suffrage amendments in New York
and Kansas, in 1894, shows how largely
men still fail when called upon to put in 
practice the principles they enunciate.
	Though twenty-six States have granted
some slight concessions to women citizens,
in no States of the Union, save Wyoming
and Colorado, are women yet admitted to
the dignity of equal rights in citizenship.
In only Six States of the Union are mothers
conceded to be legal owners of their own 
children.
	Such being the sad and shameful state of
affairs, it behooves all lovers of justice to
rally at the call to speed the next step in
human progress—the full development of 
the mother of the race, the greatest factor 
in the coming civilization.
	Presidents of State Suffrage Associations
from thirty-five States, together with many
famous lecturers, will take part in the Con-
vention programs.  Among those expected
are, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, of Pen 
nsylvania; Lillie Devereux Blake, of New 
York; Carrie Lane Chapman Catt, of Iowa;
Caroline E. Merrick, of Louisiana; Alice
Stone Blackwell, of Massachusetts;
Josephine K. Henry, of Kentucky; Dora
Phelps Buell, of Colorado; Elizabeth U.
Yates, of Maine; and Mary C. Francis, of 
Ohio.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.								223


MRS. EWING'S PUDDINGS AND
		SAUCES.

	SIMPLE and inexpensive puddings and
pudding sauces were the subject of the lec-
ture at the cooking class last November. A
delicious apple pudding with sauce can be
made for an ordinary family, Mrs. Ewing
says, at about 3cts a dish. Butter a pan
and dust it with salt; have alternate layers
of  apples (peeled, cored and quartered) and
bread crusts which have been soaked in cold
water, having the first layer of apples and
the last of crusts; then over the top spread
a layer of bread crumbs which have been
moistened with melted butter; dust with a
tablespoonful of sugar, sit in the oven and
cover; allow the cover to remain for half an
hour and then remove it. Serve this with
hard sauce made as follows: Cream half a
cup of butter at a time, a cup of sifted pul-
verized sugar. When these have been
thoroughly mixed together add a table-
spoonful of cream and flavoring to taste.
	Mrs. Ewing is so gentle and easy about
her cooking that it seems more a pleasure
than what most of us have considered hard
work, and this is due to the things she is
anxious to impress upon the ladies that if
rightly done it is a fascinating employ-
ment.


M. STEPHANE MALLARME, the French 
poet, suggests that the publishers of books
on which the copyright has expired should
be compelled to pay a small royalty into a 
fund for the benefit of needy authors.  Ex.


R. S. REPORT. 

ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	ON the 23rd of October President Anna
L. Ivins with her counselors, left St. George
to visit the eastern settlements of the St.
George Stake of Zion.
	We went to Leeds and held meeting at
eleven o’clock, Sister Anna Wilkinson pre-
siding, we had a very good meeting, the
sisters manifested a disposition to keep up
their meetings regularly.
	We proceeded to Toquerville, met with
the Relief Society at 7 p. m. Sister Louisa
Naglye the former President having moved
away, we reorganized with Sisters Eliza
Ann Slack as president, Susannah Bring-
hurst as first and Sister Stapley as second
counselors.
	On the 24th we proceeded on to Virgen
City where we met at eleven o’clock with
the Relief Society. Sister Jepson resigned
her position as first counselor to Sister
Sariah Workman the President, after giving
Sister Jepson a vote of thanks, Sisters
Mary Ann Beebe and Ella Hilton were
chosen as first and second counselors to the
president in the Relief Society. We went
on to Grafton, meeting convened at three
o’clock President Ballard was quite feeble
but felt refreshed, and strengthened by
meeting with the sisters. Proceeded on to
Rockville, where we spent the night at
Bishop Hircshe’s.
	October 25th we met with the Relief
Society of Rockville and had a good turn
out; the sisters feel well and enjoy the meet-
ing s very much; at the close of the meeting
Sister Daley president of the Primary
Association brought in her resignation. We
were very sorry to have her resign, as she
has been very faithful, we gave her a vote
of thanks, and honorably released her.
	At the close of the meeting we returned
to Toquerville; at six p. m. met with the
Primary Association and had an interesting
time with the children. We spent the
night with Sister Susannah Bringhurst. On
the 26th we traveled on to Harmony and
held meeting at seven p. m. Sister Maria
Pace presiding, had a very nice meeting
and a very comfortable house to meet in.
	On the 27th we arrived at Pinto and met
with the Relief Society at three p. m. at
Sister Mary Knell’s home on account of her
poor health. President Ann Knell presid-
ing. On the 28th we returned home hav-
ing traveled 145 miles and been absent six
days.
					ANN C. WOODBURY.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
	
ADDRESS READ AT PAROWAN W. S. A.

	I CONGRATULATE the ladies of Iron
County in organizing a branch of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association here. I con-
sider that it is a step in the right direction
and taken none too soon.
	Having always believed that the measure
of knowledge possessed by women marked
the standard of intelligence of coming pos-
terity, and believing as one has said “that
they who rock the cradle rule the world,” I
have looked forward with great hope to the
time when woman unfettered by the
shackles of caste that man in ignorance and
superstition had placed upon her, should
take her place beside him in the grand

[Column 2]
phalanx of might that is moving for the
development of humanity, and the enfran-
chisement of a world, and with joy and
satisfaction we would behold the rising star
that heralds the dawn of that golden era.
	For everywhere those who share the bur-
dens and responsibilities of the government
are demanding a voice in saying what those
burdens shall be, and woman is asking to be
recognized as man’s equal, and man in turn
is anxious to bestow upon her all rights
and privileges enjoyed by himself.
	The many sensible women of the day
who are earnestly pleading the cause of
right and equality under the law, seek not
to step from the sphere that nature and
nature’s God has placed women in, but are
contending nobly that woman in her sphere
can understand the laws of progression and
development of the human race, the science
of government even, and the principles that
must necessarily underlie the superstruct-
ure of all good laws, as well as man, and
so understanding, is just as capable of
reaching a helping hand to the fallen, and
to have a voice in organizing society as he,
and here in this land of liberty, where the
people are the true sovereign, that woman’s
voice as well as her sympathy should be
heard and felt.
	The questions of the hour (especially here
in Utah,) are not so much to contend for equal
rights under the law, for that seems now to
be almost an assured fact; many influential
honest men elsewhere as I have said, are
anxious to grant to women all she demands
and more, and we know that there cannot
be found in any land or clime, men who re-
spect women more, or who cherish her well
being with a greater love than the men of
Utah. Hence woman’s destiny and great-
ness in Utah with the help of noble men,
and the ballot in her own hands; and with
joy I can congratulate them and and wel-
come the solemn obligations and responsi-
bilities that will soon be theirs, and well I
know that woman will guard well that
great trust with a jealous care, and that she
will achieve a greatness that will light her
path of glory, and rest as a halo of light
upon happy homes.
	The lessons of to day for both male and
female are to prepare ourselves for the
future that we may be prepared to bear the
burdens of a commonwealth, and to the
time when woman shall cast her vote for
the safety of her home and the nation. I
am not reckoning without my host, in the
glorious future, that has already been
hallowed by the sacrifices of noble ones,
and is awaiting like a love-lighted beacon
the presence of the brave and the true,
when Utah, though long rejected by the
builders, shall take her place at the head of
the corner,—Utah’s interests will be trusted
to woman, and to man equally.
	Then under the glory of statehood on a
higher plane and without the political spite,
that now disturbs us, we will make Utah,
“The glory of the land and a beacon light
to the world.”
L. D.WATSON.


MISS BEATRICE HARRADEN has been
asked to write a serial for the Century, but
refused. “I do not like serials,” she said.
“It is a bad arrangement for both author
and reader. The effect of the story is lost
when it is read by piecemeal, through
several months. The reader is disap-
pointed or loses interest, and the writer is
misjudged.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	T. B. ALDRICH left Boston October 4 for
a trip aronnd the world. At last accounts
he was at Yokohama, Japan.
	MISS AGNES REPPLIER has left London
and when last heard from was in Vienna,
en route for Constantinople, Greece, and
Egypt,
	MISS KIPLING, a sister of Rudyard
Kipling, has gone into literature. She is a
Mrs. Fletcher, but Kipling is a better name
to conjure with.
	BRET HARTE has published more than
thirty volumes and writes at the rate of two
a year. He passed his fifty-fifth birthday
last August.
	MRS. A. L. WISTAR, whose translations
of the stories of E. Marlitt and other Ger-
man writers have brought her so much
fame, is having a cottage built at Northeast
H arbor, Me.
	MRS. KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN is soon to
be married to George Riggs, a young busi-
ness man of New York. They were to-
gether last summer on a coaching party in
Wales. This will not interfere with Mrs.
Wiggin’s literary career.
	HERR BJORNSTJERNE BJORNSON, who
is at present staying in Tyrol with his
family, intends to spend the winter in
Rome. There he hopes to finish “a great
social drama” upon which he has been for
some time at work.
	AFTER Victor Hugo died more than
10,000 isolated verses were found scattered
about his room, written on little slips of
paper. He used to write incessantly, even
while he was dressing himself in the morn-
ing.
	EMILE ZOLA, according to his biographer,
writes four printed pages in the Charpentier
edition of his novels every day. This is
his task; he never writes less and he never
writes more, stopping at the end of the
fourth page even if he is in the midst of a
sentence.
	THERE is a time to be born, and a time
to die, says Solomon, and it is the memen-
to of a truly wise man; but there is an in-
terval between these two times of infinite
importance.—Richmond.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be few and
well chosen. Like friends, too, we should
return to them again and again—for, like
true friends, they will never fail us—never
cease to instruct—never cloy.—Joineriana,
1772.
	EQUITY in law is the same that the spirit
is in religion, what every one pleases to
make it. Sometimes they go according to
conscience, sometimes according to law,
sometimes according to the rule of court.---
Selden.
	WHOEVER feels pain in hearing a good
character of his neighbor will feel a pleas-
ure in the reverse. And those who despair
to rise in distinction by their virtues are
happ[-] if others can be depressed to level
with themselves. Franklin.

[Column 2]
	F. MARION CRAWFORD will shortly
build a fine summer residence on the
property he has recently acquired near
Hanover, N. H., his wife’s birthplace. In
spite of foreign birth and residence, Mr.
Crawford regards himself as an American
citizen, and will hereafter spend his sum-
mers here.


A DECEMBER DITTY.

	THE holly, oh, the holly!
	Green leaf and berry red.
	Is the plant that thrives in winter
	When all the rest are fled.
	When snows are on the ground,
	And the skies are gray and drear,
	The holly comes at Christmastide
	And brings the Christmas cheer.
	Sing the mistletoe, the ivy,
	And the holly bush so gay,
	That come to us in winter—
	No summer friends are they.

	Give me the sturdy friendship
	That will ever loyal hold,
	And give me the hardy holly
	That dares the winter’s cold;
	Oh the roses bloom in June,
	When the skies are bright and clear,
	But the holly comes at Christmastide,
	The best time o’ the year.
	Sing the holly, and the ivy,
	And the merry mistletoe,
	That come to us in winter
	When the fields are white with snow.
ALICE WILLIAMS BROTHERTON.
Hearth And Hall.


OBITUARIES.

JANE ANN BOWN.

	Sister Jane Ann Bown, wife of William Bown,
departed this life at 2:20 p. m. December 11, 1894,
at Fayette, Sanpete County, Utah. The cause of
her death was congestion of the lungs, being sick
but nine days.
	Sister Bown was the daughter of John E. and
Mary Metcalf, born March 15, 1834, at Hull, York-
shire, England. She was baptized July 9, 1850,
was married in January, 1855, emigrated to Utah
the same year, lived in Salt Lake City a short
time, then moved to Springville, Utah county,
where they lived until 1861, when they were called
to go to Dixie, and settled in St. George. Brother
Bown was released from that mission on account
of his health; came to Fayette in 1865, where
they have resided up to the time of her demise.
	Sister Bown has been president of the Relief
Society from its first organization, over twenty
years ago. She has also acted as president of the
Primary Association since October, 1891. She
has ever been faithful in these associations, and
not only has she been active in her official duties,
but in ministering to the sick and needy in our
midst. She was the mother of ten children, and
had also twenty-two grand-children. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and was much beloved
by all who knew her. She leaves a husband, six
children and a large circle of friends to mourn
her loss.
	The funeral was held on the 13th at 12, noon
and was largely attended.
COM.

Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	IT becomes our painful duty to inform you of
the death of our esteemed sister, Mary Ann
Francis Lisonbee Rubey. She departed this life,
at Circleville. She was born in Pickens Co.
Ala., Feb. 27, 1837, and was married to Alfred
Rubey, June 26, 1854.
	Shortly after her marriage her husband deter-
mined on emigrating to California. While enroute
they heard the gospel preached and California
lost its allurements for them. They determined
to cast their lot with the Saints of God, and Sister
Rubey remained faithful unto death.


She was the mother of eleven children of whom
six survive. She presided over the Circleville
Relief Society for four years and was esteemed in
her official capacity. Beloved of those who knew
her she now rests in peace awaiting the
resurrection of the just.
LODEMA C. RUBEY.
Washington, Utah, Dec. 4, 1894.


WEST BOUNTIFUL.

Editor Woman’s Eponent:
	THINKING perhaps you will give the following
space in your valuable paper we take the liberty
of addressing you in behalf of our Relief Society.
This society is a small one, only about thirty-three
members enrolled, but all, or nearly so, are good
energetic workers. Our meetings are quite well
attended, and we are trying to obey counsel in
storing up wheat, so that when the time comes,
as we expect it will, we shall have something to
give, at least a few of God’s creatures who will
come to Zion for safety.
	At present we have no poor in our ward, and
can truthfully say that we do live in the land
Bountiful. But all is not pleasant sunshine with
us, for death has stepped in and taken one of
our most faithful and useful sisters,—LUCY DARK
MUIR.
	Sister Muir was born in England October 16th
1838, and died August 3rd 1894, being nearly
fifty-six years old. She has been a teacher and
leader among the young people, devoting herself
earnestly to their interest. She was counselor in
the Primary class, Secretary to the Relief Society,
and President of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Association. She had for many years
led the young ladies class in Sunday School.
	As Secretary of our Society, Sister Lucy was
ever at her post, willing to do good to others,
always ready to give counsel or answer questions
on any subject; she had a smile and a kind word
for all who met her, and in losing Sister Muir
from our circle, we feel that her chair will be
ever vacant until that great day when all circles
will be completed. Ever praying for the welfare
of the Sisters in Zion we remain, Yours Truly,
MARTHA FACKRELL, President, JANE PACK,
Vice President, ZILLA GRANT, Secretary.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
		       Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K. THOMAS


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.		No. 13—14


CONTENTS: 
	Speak No Ill—L. M. W. Ignorance And
Superstition—Phoebe C. Young. Ladies’ Semi
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. U. W. P. C.
Birthday Party—Lydia D. Alder. The General
Relief Society Conference—E. B. Wells. Wo-
man’s National Council—Rachel Foster Avery.
Macbeth—Gladys Woodmansee. Musings—Ida
Haag. R. S. Reports. Woman Suffrage Column.
Notes And News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Miss Phoebe Couzins. The
National Council of Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Year Is New—Edson B. Russell.
New Years'—E. R. Shipp.


THE YEAR IS NEW.

[Inscribed to my wife.]
Dearest; the year is new,
And the roses silent sleep,
But the hearts that are most true
All their vows of love will keep,
	Though snows are deep,
	Still, love will keep.
Though the roses fade and wither,
Love survives the stormy weather,
And its fires still keep burning,
And the soul renews its yearning
Howsoe’er the seasons run.
Dearest; the year is new
And its harvests are to grow,
We are drinking of life’s rue,
Barren fields, in pain we sow,
	Yet, green will grow
	The fields we sow,
Not in vain this painful sowing,
For, the seed in silence growing.
Bursts anon its gloomy prison,
And—as other forms have risen—
Thus, puts forth the flower and fruit.
Dearest; the year is new,
But its music now is slow,
Soon will shake the honey—dew
From the summer’s loaded bough,
	From world of gloom
	To world of bloom,
Thus, the miracle of living
Comes by what the soul is giving,
Love, its winter-vigils keeping
Prophesies a joyful reaping,
And fulfills its holy trust.
		EDSON B. RUSSELL. 		Ex


[Column 1]
SPEAK NO ILL.

		“Then speak no ill, but lenient be
		To other’s failings as your own,
		If your the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	MY first recollection of the above lines
dates back to the time when I, as a child, 
sat on my father’s knee, in the twilight,
listening to the voices of my parents as they
blended in song; and whenever this song
was the chosen theme, my heart would beat 
in unison with its sentiments, and my soul
be filled with an earnest desire that as I.
grew in years I might be able to obey its
precepts, and put in practice the beautiful
lesson which the lines contained. And al-
though I have, no doubt, failed many times
to live up to my youthful ambition in this
respect, yet, in moments of temptation

[Column 2]
these words have often-times served as a
monitor to silence, thoughts of unkind
criticism that might otherwise have found
expression, and although I have never
known the author’s name, I have always
considered them, words of inspiration.
	What a different state of affairs would be
in existence. if we were as diligent in our
endeavors to discover and make known the
virtues mankind are in posession of, as we
are to find out and proclaim their failings.
	It is one of the mysteries that remain to be
solved why we should take so much pleasure
in circulating reports that are detrimental to
anothers character; for we not only mark
an injury to others by so doing but act det-
rimentally to our own interests, by limit-
ing our circle of friends; and also deprive
ourselves of the sense of satisfaction and
self-approval which always accompanies a
good act—and surely there are few things
more commendable than holding sacred the
reputation of a brother or sister; for a good
name is among the priceless possessions of
this life. In our judgment of others we
should take into consideration the fact that
the inhabitants of the earth are not supposed
to be perfect beings, but were sent here on
a probationary mission, with a view to per-
fection sometime in the future; so it should
not be surprising if in studying the les-
sons of life, and striving to put them into
practice, mistakes are made by the pupils,
but it should be a matter of surprise that
these mistakes should be heralded abroad,
and enlarged and commented upon, as
though they were unpardonable, by those
who are co-laborers in the same school,
subject to, and oftentimes overcome, by the
same obstacles. The failnre to recognize
our own imperfections is one of the chief
causes of our finding so much fault with
others, for, were we fully convinced of our
own short-comings, and the ‘beam’ removed
from our own eye, we would sense to a
greater degree the inconsistency of critcizing
the mistakes of other people while we are
so far removed from perfection ourselves.
	If we will institute a thorough and can-
did investigation of ourselves, there is no
doubt but the result will prove a profitable
one; it may reveal to our view some traits
in our character that we were not aware of,
and impress us with the necessity of a
speedy reformation, and if so we will feel
more lenient towards the failings of others,
and not so anxious to make them known,
but will, “speak of all the best we can.’’
						L. M. W.


[Column 1]
IGNORANCE AND SUPERSTITION.

VERSUS REFORM AND PROGRESS.

	HEARING a remark made the other day
that ignorance and superstition had caused
more sorrow in the world than pride and
ambition; I was led to reflect upon the sub-
ject, and to say, ignorance and superstition
are greater evils than pride and ambition,
for although excessive pride is a sin, and
one of the evils to which our human
nature is subject, it is a term that is often

[Column 2]
misused and applied to true merit wrong-
fully, and is oftener found to be a trait of
the ignorant than of those who possess
true knowledge, for whereas ignorance is
apt to be puffed up at trifles the possession
of true knowledge is willing to sit at the
feet of the wise and be instructed.
	Ignorance and superstition walk amid
the dark places of the earth with cruelty
for their handmaiden, while ambition and
progress counts the light of the sun and
says I will break these bonds of ignorance
and superstition that enrivon me. There
is a stirring of a spirit within me that
teaches me, I am made for better things;
I will try my powers, I will trust my bark
on unknown seas; perchance I shall find
help, ‘tis ignorance and superstition that
prompts the mother to sacrifice her
children to the monster of the Nile, and
others to cast the infants from their bosom
beneath the cars of their monstrous idols;
the widows of India to prostrate them-
selves upon the burning pile that they
may be consumed with the dead bodies of
their husbands, and the poor islanders to
perform their ghastly rites, prompting the
untaught Indian to offer sacrifice to the
sun, and to slay the follower of the dead
that he may accompany his chief to the
happy hunting ground.
	But alas! we need not look among
heathen nations alone to find the apathy of
ignorance or the cruelty of superstition; it
exists today amid our great cities and in
our rural districts. should we go back to
the middle or what is called the dark ages,
what a picture would be presented to our
view; a time when ignorance was declared
to be the mother of devastation; and supersti-
tion held the minds of the people in iron
bands; a time when to make a discovery in
science or to proclaim a new idea respecting
the great father and His dealings with His
children was said to be the work of Satan;
and the axe of the headsman and the stake
were always ready for the victim. Oh! the
cruelty of superstition. How it filled all
France with gashed and mutilated bodies,
and how the fair land ran with blood in
the year 1512 at the massacre of St. Bar-
tholomew the result of a conspiracy be-
tween the so-called vicar of Christ Philip
the 11th, with Charles the ninth and his
mother Catharine DeMedici. And how in
the year sixteen hundred Giardauns Rouno
for asserting the rotatory motion of the
earth was tried and convicted of heresy
and burned at the stake by order of Cle-
ment the VIII, while the priests who
burned him fell upon their knees and
prayed God to continue the good work in
hell. Bruno suffered, but the earth
continued to move: in its orbit notwith-
standing ignorance and superstition decided
it could not move so it was with the first
inventor of type in-printing who had to
flee by night to escape a similar doom;
ignorance and superstition asserting, that
such wonders could only be the work of
the devil. Ones so it has even been ignor-
ance and superstition against Reform and
Progress.
	Ignorance sits at home by the light of a


[Column 1]
dim candle glancing fearfully into the
shadows. Superstition creeps to his side
and soon he imagines he sees shapes of
horror. Superstition comes yet closer and
whispers in his ear, and he hears voices
and sounds of terror in every rustleing
curtain, or creaking board even a little
mouse cannot stir but he thinks it must be
a messenger of evil; he sits shivering,
creeps to his bed covering beneath the
clothing, till at last sleep mercifully steeps
his senses in oblivion.
	Ambition says, “I will rouse myself and
walk abroad I will go among noble men
and brave women, I will visit lighted halls,
I will listen to the strains of sweet music,
or to the voice of the lecturer who will
unfold to my understanding the wonders of
science; or perhaps I will hear the traveler
whose desire for knowledge has led to visit
other lands, and he will tell of dangers
braved and difficulties overcome, or of the
wondrous works of nature in other climes,
and my spirit will be stirred to emulation,
and my heart will be led from nature unto
nature’s God, for I know that His hand is
over all His works.
	Ignorance says, “All things remain as
they were from the beginning until now a
wooden plow was good enough for our
grandfathers, and it is good enough for us,
our forefathers ploughed their fields with
oxen and threshed their grain with a flail
and it is good enough for us.”
	What is the use of all these new fangled
inventions that are turning the world up-
side down?
	Intelligence and progress say, “We will
build railroads, we will invent telegraphy,
whereby we can almost annihilate time and
space. Write the continents and converse
from ocean to ocean; we will learn to con-
vey sound, so that friends however distant
can speak to one another as though stand-
ing face to face; we will chain the lightn-
ing and make it subservient to the will of
man; we will count the stars and learn to
predict the times and seasons of the
planets; we will measure the circumference
of the earth and sound the depths of the
sea; with energy and perseverance we will
see what man can do with the intelligence
God has given him and for which he will
be called to give an account; for it is God
who giveth wisdom to man and he has
said; “Happy is the man that findeth wis-
dom length of days in her right hand
and in her left hand riches and honor; then
down driveling starveling ignorance,
avaunt; thou hydra-headed pale spectre
superstition; onward men of ambition raise
the standard of progress and of right; and
oh ye women of the nineteenth century sit
no longer in ignorance; throw off the soul-
paralyzing influence of superstition and
rise up in the strength of your womanhood
and of the intellect that God has given you;
cultivate your intellect from the sources of
all true knowledge and use it for the up-
lifting and onward progress of the human
race; be prepared to stand shoulder to
shoulder with man to forward every great
enterprise that has for its object the eleva-
tion of mankind and the amelioration of
the sorrows of suffering humanity.
	Let not woman fear that she is over-
stepping the bounds prescribed by the
Great Creator as the proper sphere of
woman, for she was in the beginning creat-
ed a helpmate for man and who will dare
affirm she is out of place, because she
shares his ambition and desires to assist in
all great and worthy enterprises.

[Column 2]
	Nor need she fear the scoffs of ignor-
ance or the benumbing influence of super-
stition that sit in their dark corners and
sneer at what they cannot understand and
say that woman must be unsexed if she
take up her pen to write upon the momen-
tous questions of the day, and her voice is
heard proclaiming from the stand the time
has come when the death blow must be
given to ignorance and superstition, when
both men and women must stand forth in
the light of progress and work together to
that end; and she is no less a wife and
mother, for God and nature fixed the
balance of the sexes and man will even
hold an influence over woman and woman
over man, God and nature have so ordained
it.
	This is also true in regard to mother-
hood. The mother’s love is strong in a
woman’s heart and she cannot forget the
child she nourished at her breast, even un-
to old age, but follows her children with
her love and sympathy through all the
vicissitudes of life, if she could shield
them and suffer in their stead, how often
would she gladly do so.
	If a mother does forget her sucking child
it is through some monstrous perversion of
nature’s laws or of the laws of society; the
more enlightened women become, and the
greater degree of elevation they attain,
the more anxious they will be to direct the
ambition of their sons into such channels
that will not only lead them to climb to
heights of learning, or perhaps to become
one of the great inventors, or artists of the
day; but to that greater knowledge and
understanding that will reach beyond this
transitory state of existancs and fit them
for the endless ages of eternity.
	And oh, ye youth of this much favored
land think not to make the excuse of
ignorance it will no longer be accepted.
This is the golden age of opportunity; hold
not back and think there is nothing left
for you to do; rouse yourselves and look
around you; there are fresh hills for you to
climb; there are new discoveries for you to
make; there is work for you to do.
	Ignorance and superstition are not dead;
gird on your armour and do battle with
them; work while it is called today; never
mind the vices and allurements of the world
if you would play your part well you will
have no time for them, but will shun and
pity them.
	“Honor and shame from no condition rise,
Act well thy part there all the honor lies.”
Set your mark high and live for it, learn to
be true men and true women; oppose ignor-
ance with true knowledge and throw the
light of revelation and truth upon super-
stition.		PHOEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly Meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Dec.
29th, 1894. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"All hail the Glorious Day." Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing "Welcome best of all good meet-
ings"
	Sister Vilate Young, the Secretary, being
absent, Counselor Webb called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary of the
meeting.
	Counselor E. Webb in her remarks
wished all a Happy New Year, and said,
"Let us not only make good resolutions for

[Column 2]
the coming year, but let us carry them out,
and live for the Gospel. Let us love one
another more than we have in the past."
Gave other good and timely counsel.
	President Z. D. H. Young said, "I often
think a good work done, is better than
commenced. We should be interested for
the living and the dead. No dispensation
that has ever dawned on the world has had
so great a responsibility resting upon it, as
ours. Only think of the affinity between
the dead and us. They are looking to us
for deliverance. Shall we not help them?
Sisters stimulate the young people to do
right but do not try to cover them.
	In our coming together think of the
power of the anointing. we are blessed
throughout all our generations, the promise
is to us, and if your children go astray,
when they have paid the penalty, they
must come back. Let us comfort the er-
ring. We are blessed above all other
people. Think of it, our associations will
last throughout eternity. Let us all bear
testimony today. Make this a testimony
meeting in very deed. Commence here and
every one arise in turn and speak if only a
few words. The last time Joseph spoke
they held an umbrella over him, for it was
raining. Yet those that would come
heard him, and those who did not, never
heard him again. So it is to day. Though
dark and stormy, yet those who will come,
will have the blessing. We have no lease
on our lives, we may never all meet here
again. But our testimonies will stand,
God bless you sisters.
	Sister Julia Samson, bore an excellent
testimony, and expressed an earnest desire
to continue faithful. Sister Lillie Tall
expressed the same desires and bore testi-
mony. Sister Ann Wheeler followed
testifying to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Longmore and Sister Mary E. Bas-
sett each bore a true and faithful testimony.
Sister Jane James, knew her Father in
Heaven loved her and blessed her beyond
measure. Concluded by speaking in
tongues. Interpretation given by President
Z. D. H. Young.
	Sisters Sperry, Bullock, Hardman,
Stanley, Clark and many other sisters
present, each spoke as the spirit gave ut-
terance, all desiring to be faithful to the end
of life.
	Sisters Rawlinson, Smith, Howe and Sil-
ver followed with faithful testimonies.
	Counselor E. Stevenson prayed that the
good Spirit might rest on the sisters who do
not meet with us. Spoke of the poor of
God’s children and gave much good counsel.
	Sisters Hill, Chamberlain and Hardy
spoke of the loving kindness of God to
them. Also Sister Sperry and every other
sister in the congregation. A young brother
who had come with his mother, also stood
up and gave a few words of testimony.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, spoke of the good
gifts that the Redeemer gave to men when
He assended on high, testified that all the
faithful would meet in the great and glor-
ious day, that we would know each other
there, and would be satisfied with the good
gifts, that our Father would give to all his
faithful children.
	Counselor E. Webb made a few closing
remarks and added her blessing to every
soul present. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Sang the Doxology. Benediction,
President Z. D. H. Young.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR’S.

O FATHER, give to us this day and all the year,
Thy Holy Spirit, peace, good-will, and happy
	cheer!
Accept our humble hearts o’er flowing gratitude
For all thy gracious gifts, and tender care so good:
For life, and health, and strength, we thank thee
	Father kind
For vigor we possess in body and in mind.
We thank thee too for friendship’s made ’neath
	rosy bowers,
For ambient air, for nature’s songs and flowers
And even too for pains and cares, and winter’s
	snows,
For every prosperous tide, and adverse wind that
	blows. 
For with the painful thorns each humble heart
	will find
Bright fragrant flowers,and blessings intertwined.
For heart, and mental tempests, just as winter
	storms, 
Prepares the soil to bloom with more perfected
	charms.
If we but faithful prove and patiently endure,
We will rejoice at last our recompense is sure.
For every pang we feel will elevate the soul,
And lead our wayward feet to Heaven’s happy
	goal.
Oh, Father! more than all we thank thee for
	the sight.
That’s dawned in this last age to guide thy people
	right,
To e’en prove worthy of the knowledge we
	possess, 
And ever true and faithful; Oh, Father aid and
	bless!
O give us strength and wisdom let thy Holy
	Spirit guide
And lead us in that narrow path where we may
	safe abide.
							E. R. SHIPP.


U.W. P. CLUB.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held at Dr. Shipp’s,
Dec. 29th, 1894. It was an interesting and
well attended session. Besides a goodly at-
tended session. Besides a goodly atten-
dance of members there were present the
Hon. Phoebe Couzins, of St. Louis, and a
number of reporters who took notes.
	President E. R. Shipp was in the chair.
Opened with prayer by President Lucy A.
Clark, of Davis Co. The members res-
ponded with sentiments from Tennyson.
Laura Hyde gave a very creditable paper on
the life and works of the same great poet
recitation by C. Louise Boyden and song by
Maude Pratt.
	The Hon. Phoebe Couzins then gave an
interesting address on Woman’s Rights.
Also related some interesting reminiscenses
of the late silver troubles and campaign in
Colorado. The remainder of the evening
was devoted to refreshments and conver-
sation. Meeting adjourned to Jan. 15th,
1895, prayer by Dr. E. B. Ferguson.
			OLEA SHIPP, Asst. Sec.

	The Utah Woman’s Press Club met as
per adjournment at the office of Dr. E. R.
Shipp, Tuesday evening, Jan. 15, 1895, at
7-30 p. m.
	The president in the chair. Open-
ing prayer by Honorary president, Mrs. E. 
B. Wells. Members responded to roll-call
by sentiments from different authors.
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved with one amendment.
	The constitution and by-laws were then


read by the secretary, Then each by-law
was read separately, with amendments in
some cases, and voted upon. The Consti
tution remains the same as at first. The
by-laws, with a few changes, remain as be-
fore, and are now as follows.


BY-LAWS.

UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
ARTICLE I.
	Par. 1. A regular meeting of the club
shall be held at the EXPONENT parlor on
the last day of each month; unless the date
or place of meeting be changed by a two-
thirds vote of the members present at any
regular meeting.
	Par. 2. An intermediate meeting may
be held during the month if the club so
decide.
	Par. 3. The October meeting of each
year shall be the annual meeting. At this
meeting officers shall be elected for ensuing
year.

ARTICLE II.
	Par. 1. Applications for membership
may be presented in writing or by a mem-
ber of the club. After the approval of the
credential committee the applicant may be
received by a majority vote and of the
members present. Membership fee one
dollar.

ARTICLE III.
	Par. 1. Annual dues shall be one dol-
lar payable in October and become delinquent
sixty days after the annual meeting.
	Par. 2. No member whose dues are
not paid, shall be entitled to vote, unless by
consent of a majority of the members
present.
	Par. 3. Every appointee of the regular
programme who fails to fulfill the part as-
signed her shall be fined ten cents.

ARTICLE IV.
   	Par. 1. Honorary members, the num-
ber not to exceed five, may be elected by
unanimous vote of the club.
	
ARTICLE V.
	Members may bring friends to meeting,
no one visitor however shall be allowed to
attend more than three meeting during the
year.

ARTICLE VI—Quorum.
	Any presiding officer together with three
regular members shall constitute a quorum
to do business at any regular meeting.

ARTICLE VII.
	All meetings shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with parliamentary law. The
Woman’s Manual of Parliamentary Law, by
Harriet R. Shattuck shall be authority.

ARTICLE VIII.
	The by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting by a two thirds majority
vote of members present notice having
been given at a previous meeting.

	The term of the program committee hav-
ing expired by limitation, a new com-
mittee was appointed as follows. Chairman
Lizzie Shipp. Assistants Caroline C. R.
Wells, and Laura Hyde. Hattie B. Har-
ker and Rebecca H. Doolan were admitted
members of the club, by unanimous vote.
	An interesting and instructive original
p[---] on Indian Mythology was given by
Sinthia D[--]inson. Caroline C. R. Wells
gave current events.
	Program for next meeting—Paper on
Emerson, by Nellie C. Taylor. Paper on
Rubenstein by Dr. R. B. Ferguson and
music from the same composer by Maude
Pratt. Paper by Mary A. Freeze. Meet-
ing adjourned to Jan. 31st, by Dr. Lizzie
Shipp.
			Lizzie S. Wilcox, Rec. Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	ON Friday Dec. 7, 1894, our honored and
loved, Sister Elizabeth Webb, Connselor to
President M. I. Horne in the 14th Ward
meetings, reached the sixty-eighth milestone
on her journey of life.
	The occasion was made a time of rejoic-
ings by her daughters, who engaged in a
little conspiracy, and had many of their
mother’s friends invited, to their sister Mrs.
Rowe’s pleasant and hospitable home, with-
out her knowledge.
	Sister Webb was quite overcome when
the truth dawned upon her. But when the
dining room was thrown open, she was her
gracious self and invited the large company
to be seated at the table, which was groan-
ing beneath the bounties of earth. After
quite a pleasant sojourn there, we returned
to the handsome parlors.
	By request of Sister Webb, the party con-
vened into a little meeting. 
	Brother E. Stevenson presided, and spoke
words of esteem and respect for the lady
in whose honor we had met. Also bore
testimony of the truth of the Gospel, and
many great and glorious prophecies whose
fulfillment was right at the door. Presi-
dent Z. D. H. Young, and Counselor
Bathsheba Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor E. Stevenson, Julia C.
Howe, Eydia D. Alder, spoke in terms of
love and esteem as fellow workers with Sister
Webb.
	Also many old friends and neighbors,
vied with each other in paying honor to
her.
	All bore testimony to her beautiful ap-
pearance in the Temple and of her good labors
there. Sister Lucy W. Kimball particularly
spoke of this, and added her blessing to
her. The gifts of the Spirit were poured
out, and it was indeed a season of rejoicing,
long to be remembered.
	After a benediction by Patriarch Joseph
Howe, the company dispersed, all wishing
Sister Webb many more birthdays, as hap-
py as this one and desiring her to live as
long as life was sweet. Her husband
was also the recipent of many good
wishes. Great praise it due her daughters
for their kindness, and thoughtfulness.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE twenty-sixth anniversary of the
Edinburgh National Society of Woman’s
Suffrage has just been celebrated. Scot-
land proudly claims the honor of having
first caught inspiration from John Stuart
Mill, for before the London Committee was
formed, Miss Craig, of Edinburgh, had
issued the first petition in favor of Mr.
Mill’s bill in the House of Commons


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
MISS PHŒBE COUZINS.

	MISS PHŒBE COUZINS of St. Louis,
distinguished lawyer and lecturer, and at
one time United States Marshal of the
Eastern District of Missouri, (serving out
her father’s term after his decease,) has
been for some weeks in our city at the
Templeton Hotel. Miss Couzins is ac-
companied by her brother, who is like her-
self a sort of semi-invalid, and as they are
the only two left of the family, they like
to keep together as much as possible.
	Miss Couzins who is much broken down
in health came here with the idea of try-
ing our celebrated hot springs for rheuma-
tism, but up to this time has not availed
herself of the opportunity, fearing the cold
frosty air might not be beneficial after a
bath of that kind.
	After Miss Couzins graduated from the
high school of her native city she chose the
law as a profession, her application for ad-
mission to the Washington university in
St. Louis in 1869 was granted without a
dissenting voice; she was an earnest student
while there, and was graduated with honor
in 1871, when a public dinner was given to
celebrate the event.
	She has been admitted to practice in all
the courts of Missouri, the United States
District Court, and in the courts of Kansas
and Utah; she was the first woman in the
United States appointed to a Federal ex-
ecutive office, receiving her commission
from Justice Miller. She has twice been
appointed Commissioner for the State of
Missouri on the National Board of Charities
and Corrrctions; superintendent of the Cen-
sus, Robert P. Potter, appointed her
manager of the division of mortgage in-
debtedness of the city of St. Louis.
	In July 1890 she was appointed Lady
Commissioner for Missouri on the World’s
Fair Board of Directors She is a very
strong character and is well-versed in
history as well as in the law and is familiar
with the great questions of the day and
holds very positive opinions of her own on
many general national subjects. Miss
Couzins entered the lecture field as an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage in 1876 and has
been quite celebrated for her brilliancy and
eloquence upon the public platform. Miss
Couzins has lectured in most of the large
cities of the United States and has a
national reputation as an easy fluent and
forcible speaker.
	In a recent campaign in Colorado she
took an active part and traveled through
the hills and canyons into the rural and
mining districts, speaking to small and

[Column 2]
large audiences as the case might be. Gov.
Waite of that state appointed her a dele-
gate to the Trans-Mississippi Congress in
St. Louis, and after the close of that Con-
gress she came on to Utah. She has very
graciously consented to speak here several
times to clubs of women, and has given
charming topics in her easy, graceful and
pleasing style.
	A public lecture “The Silver Conspir-
acy” was given in the new Grand Opera
house January 13th, the audience was not
large but very appreciative. On Tuesday
January 15, Miss Couzins spoke in Ogden
at the City Hall and afterwards during the
week to womens’ clubs and to the people
in Thomas’ Hall.
	In Ogden she was the guest of Mrs.
Hilliard which made her stay there very
pleasant.
	Miss Couzins gives her Salt Lake theater
lecture Sunday evening January 20th, sub-
ject, “The Pilgrim Mothers and Daughters
of the Cavaliers.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
		WOMEN.

	THE Nationol Council of Women of the
United States is of far more importance
than it is generally considered even by
people of education and advanced modern
ideas of progression. It is a comparatively
new method of bringing into harmony
great national organizations, and is most
certainly calculated to broaden one’s
horizon of thoughts and opinions. But we
have not time just now to give the Coun-
cil idea, but we would like the women of
Utah of whatever faith they may be to
comprehend the great good to all by as-
sociating with women of other countries,
and maintain the only safe and sure policy
of being able to uphold and defend the
standard maintained by them at home
when coming in contact with women of
opposite and extraordinary views and
opinions.
	At the Triennial Council in Washington
D. C. opening on the 12th of February and
closing March [-]nd, 1895, the Utah
women will h[--]e a good opportunity for
representation [--]d indeed there seems to
have been a [--]ovidence in the way it has
all come abo[--], from such small beginnings.
	The Lord loves his daughters as well as
his sons, and he will aid them to accom-
plish the purposes designed for the redemp-
tion of woman and the blessing of hu-
manity in which they are so deeply interest-
ed through the natural love which is so
strong in the heart and soul of every true
woman.
	On Wednesday and on Thursday Feb.
20th, and 21st,—the President [--] each
the great organizations viz. the [---]nal
Woman’s Relief Society, and the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. will discuss important quesitons,
in the morning session, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young’s subject will be “The Need of Co-
operation of Men and Women in all Con-
ectional Work.” Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor,
“Women as directors in Boards of Educa-
tion.’’
	One evening each of the Presidents will
preside and make opening addresses. The
papers read in the N. W. R. S. will be
Heridity and Progressionism, (paper) Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, “The Sixth Sense” (paper)
Sarah M. Kimball, “Forty Year’s in the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake” E. B.
Wells, “The Spirit of Reform Reduced to


Practice” L. S. Greene Richards, The Y.
L. N. M. I. A. Social Reform, (paper)
Martha H. Tingey, The Editorial Side of
Woman’s Education, Minnie J. Snow,
What is Modern Education doing for
American Girls, (paper) Susa Young Gates,
The Relative Importance of Preventative to
Corrective Work in Moral Reform.
	Besides these important meetings the
delegate from each of these Associations,
viz. R. S. and Y. L. will have thirty
minutes allowed to each for a report of work
from the commencement of the work down
to the present time.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ALTHOUGH the EXPONENT has from time
to time received many favorable notices in
other papers, and by letter from individuals,
it has not been customary to publish them.
At the present time however, it may not be
out of place for the sake of encourage-
ment to use some extracts from letters re-
cently received from literary friends who
are looking with interest towards Utah.
	One woman editor and correspondent
of foreign papers writes, “I enjoy your
paper very much, it seems as if your wo-
men lead a much better life than we have
where we are surrounded by so much sen-
sation and noise. I wish that I could come
there and then meet more of your women.”
	Another celebrated and reverent woman
with hair like snow, who has been foremost
in the field of reform for half a century and
more, says concerning our little paper. "It
interests and pleases me to see how active
are the women of Utah, and that they are
seeking advancement in different directions
and trying to make life worth living.” A
gentleman who resides in Washington
D.C. and is familar with newspapers and
politics as also with the grave questions of
the day writes. “You edit and publish a
neat and readable paper,” then he tells us
how fond he is of our poetry, in a very
complimentary way, and specially mentions
certain strong articles from our contributors.
	Another very prominent Washington
woman who spent some time in Utah, a
few years ago and is much interested in
our woman’s work wrote me recently,
	“I am always delighted to get your good
little paper—for it is so full of that which
tells of the earnest never-tiring lives of the
Mormon women, and I am right back in
Dear Old Utah, and breathe the fresh air
of her valleys as it comes from her grand
white-capped mountains, yes, I am for a
time really there, the picture is so vivid.”
	One English gentleman traveling for
pleasure and information through the
United States stated to a friend of ours that
the EXPONENT was the only paper he
had seen that he could read right through
without finding anything offensive. With
such comments from disinterested people
one would think our own sisters would
make an extra exertion to sustain the paper,
if only in view of the good it may do in
letting the world know the views and
opinions of the women of far-famed Utah.
	DURING the absence of the editor in
Atlanta and in Washington the office will
be in charge of her grand-daughter, Miss
Isabel Sears, who is thoroughly acquainted
with the work and competent to discharge
the duties of the office, will answer all
correspondence in relation to the business
of the paper, make collections receipt for
money, and such other business as may be
necessary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, October 4th,
commencing at 10 a. m, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, the president of this great organiza-
tion, presiding. The attendance was large
from the outside stakes, and the reports were
excellent, showing marked improvement in
many directions, and increased interest in
the work of this benevolent society.
	The president made an appropriate and
motherly address of welcome, congratulat-
ing the sisters upon the prospeity that had
attended their labors in the past and the
hopeful outlook for the future. Referred to
the prophecies of Joseph Smith concerning
the society at its first organization, and that
many of his prophetic sayings at that time,
had already been fulfilled.
	Mrs. Ann G. Woodbury, in reporting St.
George Stake, made special mention of
sericulture, and the success this industry
might have in that locality if the people
would persevere in the enterprise. Sister
Hannah C. Bentley had raised this year 212
pounds of cocoons of good quality, and the
speaker felt that others could succeed as
well with the same energy and diligence,
for much had been done in past years, with
very little encouragement.
	Mrs. Ann Pulsipher gave a very satis-
factory report of the branches in Emery
Stake and said though they had not tried to
raise silk, they were exerting themselves to
establish a small woolen factory.
	Mrs. Mary Teasdale gave a most in-
teresting account of the sisters in Mexico,
they have six branches in that country, and
many difficulties to encounter unknown to
to us who live in the United States; they
are doing primitive work in carding and
spinning, and one ward is trying to make
some cloth, and another is engaged in dairy
work.
	The native sisters require much teaching
and the language has to be learned in order
to give them the necessary information, and
all this requires great patience aud persever-
ance, and one must have the desire to do
good to others to accomplish much towards
lifting them to a higher moral and spiritual
standard.
	Juab Stake was reported by Mrs. Rebecca
Udall, as the president, Mrs. Mary Pitcli-
forth, was not well enough to attend the
conference. Mrs. Udall bore a strong
testimony of the truth of the Gospel; said
she had joined the Church in France, her
native country, when only thirteen years
old upon her own responsibility, and like
many others she had left all for the Gospel’s
sake and rejoiced to be one among this
people.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow gave an excel-
lent report of Sanpete Stake and of the
diligence of the sisters in all the various
labors pertaining to the society, but especial-
ly in the efforts made to store up grain
against a day of famine.
	Mrs. Angeline Hinckely gave a pleasing
account of Millard Stake and Mrs. Ann E.
Leavitt, of Maricopa, Arizona, mentioned
the good work among the Lamanite sisters
in Papago ward, and that the Relief Society
had purchased a buggy and harness for the
president, who had for twelve years labored
almost constantly among these Indian sis-
ters; she also told of the Relief Society hall
built at Mesa City by the untiring energy

[Column 2]
of this noble band of members in that re-
mote locality; how the Lord had blessed
them in this, and that they were even stor-
ing some grain though it was really not a
grain country. What they have laid up is
sealed up in five gallon tin cans for that is
the only way it can be kept in that climate,
the speaker stated she had come 1,600 miles
to attend Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg, in reporting Box
Elder Stake, made mention of the Scandina-
vian branch of the Relief Society in Brig-
ham City and the good work the sisters had
done in emigrating from Scandinavia fifty-
two persons. The reports from all the
Stakes were certainly encouraging and al-
most all were desirous of helping forward
home enterprises of various kinds. The
general teaching was in the line of home
work such as silk raising, straw braiding
and helping in whatever possible to advance
the prosperity of home manufactures and
institutions. The actual work the Relief
Society has accomplished as a whole is not
realized by those who are not familiar with
the details, and the many obstacles that
the sisters have to encounter especially in
localities remote from headquarters.
	It is impossible to mention all in a brief
notice but the objects and aims of the
Society being similar throughout, one can
judge of the work from the report of a few
of the Stakes; it was quite impossible even
though the speakers were brief to hear
from all though there were three sessions of
the Conference.
	The afternoon meeting was much more
numerously attended than the morning and
most of the time given to reports from far
off Stakes, which were very interesting; be-
sides the charitable and philanthropic work
demonstrated by the reports of the sisters,
it is noticeable that there is also a spiritual
growth and progress which is very gratify-
ing and without which the sisters could not
labor as they do for the uplifting of human-
ty.  At the close of the afternoon session
Sister M. Isabella Horne spoke in the gift
of tongues, the interpretation was given by
President Zina D. H. Young, the effect was
thrilling throughout the assembly, and the
meeting closed by singing that telling
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” which was in itself like a bene-
diction from on high.
	There was also an evening session similar
in character to the other meetings though a
little more time was devoted to general in-
struction from the president. Much regret
was expressed for the absence of Counselors
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith,
who were not able to attend. Sister Rich-
ards on account of the illness of her sister,
and Sister Smith because of having had a
fall recently, which obliged her to remain at
home for the present, though the injury is
not serious. The spirit of the conference
throughout was excellent and must result
in great good to those who are engaged in
work of this great benevolent society which
is spreading its branches all around the world
and upon the islands of the sea, wherever
the Gospel is preached, and there are local
branches of the Church organized, there the
Relief Society becomes needful and is a help
and a blessing.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	To women working in lines of missionary
effort the first two days of the Triennial
of the National Council of Women at


Washington, D. C. will be of great interest.
	On the evening of the 18th of February
the time will be divided between the Wo-
man’s Foreign Missionary Union of Friends
and the National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society. This latter organiza-
tion is one of the very oldest of women’s
societies, having been organized in 1843.
It will be represented upon this occasion by
two of its ablest workers and speakers.—
Mrs. Frances Stewart Mosher upon “The
Ethical Adjustment of Woman’s Home and
Sociological Duties” and Mrs. Emeline
Burlingame Cheney upon Practical Christian
Living.”
	Mrs. Eliza C. Armstrong, who will speak
upon “The Relation of Religion to Public
Duties” is known among the Friends as one
of their very best speakers.
	Tuesday evening, February 19, will be
occupied by the Woman’s Centenary As-
sociation of the Universalist Church and by
the National Council of Jewish Women.
The Centenary is many years old, the
Council of Jewish Women is an outgrowth
of the World’s Congress of Representative
Women of the Exposition year.
	Rev. Lorenza Haynes (Universalist) will
give an address on “The Relation of Re-
ligion to Public Duties,” and “The Exact
Attitude of each of the Leading Religious
Denominations toward Woman’s Growing
Service in the Church" will be treated by a
speaker not yet decided upon.
	Some fine subjects are upon that part of
the program occupied by the Jewish Coun-
cil, namely “Social Obligations of Re-
ligions” by Miss Sadie American, Cor-
responding Secretary of the Council of
Jewish Women; “The Function of Women
in Religious Life” and “Greek and Hebrew
Genius-Influeuce on Christianity and
Civilization” by speakers whose names are
not yet announced.
	The Morning Sessions of these two days
will be equally interesting, the first being
given to the Formal Opening of the National
Council Triennial, Presentation of Delegates,
and Greetings of Fraternal Delegates from
associations not in membership in the Coun-
cil. Tuesday Morning will begin the ses-
sions in which the time will be largely given
to free discussion by the Members of the
Triennial, each subject for discussion being
presented formally in half hour address by a
specially invited speaker. The topics of
Tuesday are “The Influence of Women in
Bringing Religious Conviction to bear upon
Daily Life” presented by Mrs. Minnie D.
Louis, who spoke so acceptably at the
World’s Congress of Representative Wo-
men, and “Woman’s Mission to the Church
as Minister and Missionary” by Mrs. Eliza
C. Armstrong. Each of these topics will
be discussed for one hour, exclusive of the
time occupied by the main addresses
mentioned.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


MRS. SUSAN B. ANTHONY and MRS.
CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT will hold a series
of meetings in the South, in advance of
the coming National Woman Suffrage Con-
vention at Atlanta. They will visit Lex-
ington and Louisville, Ky., Memphis,
Tenn., New Orleans, La,. Jackson. Miss.,
Birmingham, Ala., and other cities, in
each case by the invitation of the ladies in
that place. The tour of meetings will be-
gin with Lexington, Ky., on Jan. 9.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MACBETH.
	[From a psychological standpoint.]
	MACBETH—What unholy scenes, hor-
rifying thoughts, and ghastly spectacles are
presented to the mind by that one word.
	Imagination immediately produces the
weird scene of the witches, their fantastic
appearance as they whirl and gesticulate
around the seething caldron with its grue-
some contents; and in the presence of this
picture we can almost sense the fascination,
and feel the unhallowed influence of those
handmaids of the powers of darkness—
“those fiends who lie like truth.” From 
pure sympathy, we almost cease to wonder
that the superstitious Macbeth is for a
moment captivated by their strange in-
cantations.
	Then like a flash we are transported to 
the interior of the castle, we feel the excite-
ment which animates its little colony of in-
habitants, as the gracious word is received
and repeated from one to another. “The
King comes here to night!” For though
we had known the king only up to this
point, he had found favor in our sight, and
we feel that his most lordly subject might
be honored by this mark of trust and
friendliness.
	Now we are at the banquet and note the
suave manner, the very apparent courtesy
and thoughtfulness, extended towards the
king by his charming hostess and her lord.
We know what is in her mind since the
receipt of that peace disturbing letter from
Macbeth, and now follow him, as he seeks
an exit from the guest chamber, to
silently witness his escaping thoughts and
feeling. We are in a state of suspense as
we watch the workings of that mind.
Note the pros, and cons, the resolutions and
the dread, the superstitious faith, the honor-
able fear, as each is marshalled in full force
to try its power upon that mind. We hear
the pleading cry of kinship—the voice of
treachery—the whisperings of loyalty—
the tempting persuasion of ambition that
would force away to the throne. As in turn
each clamors for hearing and recognition.
	Towards the latter part of this intense
mental conflict our suspense is somewhat
relaxed. We believe that the better power
will secure the victory: and are about to
exclaim, hail! Thane of Cawdor! Greater
than a king! When Lady Macbeth enters,
throws discredit on the conquering hero,
while with a re-enforcment of evil agents
she begins the attack anew. And, though
Macbeth with dignity and seeming self as-
sertion meets her with, “We will proceed
no farther in this business, he hath honored
me of late, and I have bought golden
opinions of all sorts of people which would
be worn now in their nervest gloss, not
cast aside so soon.” Yet we feel that a
master spirit has taken posession, and the 
forces of the better part will be scattered, to
the four winds. The more powerful will of
Lady Macbeth has downed all argument,
has over come the weaker determination of
her lord. He now becomes but an irresolute
servant, waiting the command of her in-
domitable spirit.
	Ah! faltering Macbeth! Thou couldst
withstand the enticing voice of ambition,
the gilded allurings of that coveted pinnacle
of power. Thou couldst bid thy super-
stitious faith await a less speedy, a more
natural fulfillment; yet thou couldst not for
a moment brook the taunting tones of thy
wife.

[Column 2]
O! Woman! frail and accounted naught
in the marshalled ranks of politics and state;
truly thy power is behind the throne; and
thy responsibility is uncomputed, for the
deeds done by men.
	Our guide, imagination, now leads us to
the king’s chamber. How peacefully, how
trustfully he slumbers. His grooms, or
body guard, lying not far removed, are
stupefied and over come by wine; yet the
king is unconcerned for his person. He is
in the house of a friend, a kinsman, a
loyal subject.
		“Now over the one half world
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
The curtained sleep:—witchcraft celebrate
Pale Hecates offering, and withered murder
Alarumed by his sentinel, the wolf, 
Whose howls his watch, thus with his stealthy
	pace,
With Tarquin’s ravishing strides, towards his
	design
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm set
	earth,
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Thy very stones prate of my whereabouts,
And take the present horror from the time
Which now suits with it.”
	Macbeth enters, wearing a pale and
frightened look, as if he had just seen an
apparition. There is a nervous anxiety in
his movements, as if he were impelled by
an outward, rather than an inward force.
He siezes a dagger lying near by, and with
stealthy though trembling steps approaches
the couch of the king. His hand is palsied
by the thought of the dreadfulness of the
deed, augmented by the solemn weirdness
of the hour. But, the deed must be done,
there is now no retreating. He grasps the
deadly weapon with a firmer hold, and,
with a mighty effort throws off those guilty
fears, "Screws his courage to the sticking
point,” and with averted gaze, swiftly sends
the messenger of death to that trusting
heart.
	He is horrified at the ghastliness of the
spectacle, and an almost overpowering
sense of the ruin he has wrought is borne in
upon him. All sorts of ghostly fancies
crowd upon his fevered imagination, as he
stands half paralyzed, with the bloody dag-
ger in his hand. He hears the sleepers
laugh and cry murder; anon, they say their
prayers and pronounce amen, which he es-
saying cannot repeat. He becomes pain-
fully alert to every sound; even the screech
of the owl, the chirp of the cricket, his own
wife’s voice strikes terror to his guilty soul.
Anon he joins his wife, and still not wholly
reconciled to the deed, he wrings his gory
hands and says, “This is a sorry sight.”
Still in half frenzied dread, remorse,
imagination, he goes on repeating what he
fancied he heard a voice cry, “Sleep no
more!”
“Macbeth does murder sleep—the innocent sleep;
Sleep that knits up the raveled sleeve of care,
The death of each day’s life, sore labors bath.
Balm of hurt minds, great nature’s second course,
Chief nourisher in life’s feast.
Still it cried sleep no more! to all the house
Glamis hath murdered sleep; and therefore
	Cawdor
Shall sleep no more—Macbeth shall sleep no
	more!”
	O wretched mortal doomed to everlasting
torment by thine own act. That was a
wail from  the depths of hell! such as
might have been heard from the fallen
spirits, who, being cast down from heaven,
realized to the utmost the denseness of the
darkness to which they were consigned.
	O pitiful! pitiful! that weeping, and wail-
ing, and gnashing of teeth.

[Column 3]
“What hands are here! Ha! they pluck out mine
eyes!
Will all great Neptune’s Ocean wash this blood
Clean from my hand? No: this my hand will
	rather
The multitudinous seas incarnardine.
Making the green one red.”

	Note how that continuous knocking
startles him—blanches his cheek—and al-
most freezes up the flowing current of his
veins.

“To know my deed ’twere best not know myself
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! Ay. ’would
	thou couldst!’’

Good night! Adieu! remorseful spirit,
tomorrow’s sun will shine, upon an
adamantine soul, in place of thine!
	The night has sped, the mental conflict
has abated; remorse is silenced and cruelty
has usurped the throne of judgment.
	In this wise the intellect has reasoned.
The deed is done and cannot be undone.
Now to the removing of all obstacles that
may threaten, or obstruct the passage to the
throne. Down feeling! Up! will and intel-
lect!  “The eternal Jewel” is irrecoverably
lost, all is over with that, ambition now
holds undisputed sway, life is all that is
left. Fill up the chalice of power! Take
pleasure in the downfall of all who loathe
thee! Trample on the necks of all who
would oppose thee! Thy time is short,
but the witches have promised it shall be
full.
	Again, O Macbeth! like the fallen angels,
having made a hell for thyself, thou must
bend all thy energies to bring a like con-
dition on all who may be in thy power.
	The distardly deed is discovered, the
house-hold is thrown into confusion, all are
horrified and astounded. Macbeth and his
lady not a whit behind the rest in demon-
strations of grief. Indeed, he freely con-
fesses that his love for the king and great
sorrow at his taking off, compelled him in
the heat of passion to stab the two grooms
who he suspected had done the deed.
	The day moves on—He has now become
bold—He is king, and even his dauntless
wife would not now taunt him with the
paleness of his heart, did she peep into that
mind and note the resolutions there.
	Yet—Banquo is in the way; he has known
Macbeth’s ambition, he may suspect the
truth, besides, the witches hailed him
“father to a line of kings;”  He must be
dispatched, and that at once.  “Banquo,
thy souls flight, if it find heaven, must
find it out to night.”
	The feast is spread, the thanes are
gathered round, and the king speaks his re-
grets at the absence of Banquo: when up
rises the ghost of the missing thane and
sits in his murderer’s chair.
	Now note the terror! The freezeing fear
that assails him, even while he protests his
innocence. Note his assumed bravado,
his palsied attempts at threatening, but now
no sign of remorse. He fears no mortal,
he is not to be undone by any born of wo-
man. Ay, he is a bold man! “who dare
look on that which might appal the devil,”
yet this has undone him.
	The scene is changed. Malcolm and
Donalbain are scattered—Banquo is dis-
patched, and Macduff’s mission to England
has received due revenge in the slaughter
of his wife and babes, the confiscation of
his lands. Yet
"Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
Do breed unnatural troubles;”


[column 1]
And, seated with the attainments of his 
ambitious ends, the king soliloquises thus:

	I have liv’d long enough: my way of life 
Is fall’n into the sear—the yellow leaf;
And that which should accompany old age
As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
I must not look to have; but in their stead
Curses, not loud, but deep; mouth honor, breath,
Which the poor would fain deny, but dare not,”

	Can we detect in this an undertone of re-
gret, a sigh for a misspent life—perverted
abilities? We might almost so interpret it.
Yet to all about him such weakness is un-
revealed: shelled in by a stern and unre-
lenting bearing.
	Word has just been brought, that the
English forces are nearing the castle. He
cannot doubt the purport of their visit; and 
has every reason to believe that the out- 
raged Scotts will need no urging to join
them against him. Yet his fears take
refuge behind the promise of the weird
sisters.

"Macbeth shall never vanquished be, until
Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
Shall come against him”
He determines to prove the firm founda-
 
tion of his faith in this promise, he calls his
retainers to arms to scour the country round,
and demanding his armour, says,
	I’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be
hacked,” calamities now come thick and
fast. Lady Macbeth is dead; and lo! Great
Birnman Wood moves towards Dunsinane,
	The thwarted spirit is almost undone, the
ill-gained power is well nigh broken. Yet
there is one more straw, to which the
drowning Macbeth clings.

"No man that’s born of woman shall e’er have
	power on thee.’’

	Again, the scene is changed, Macbeth is
captured, but still clings to the straw.
Young Siward has been slain in the hand
to hand conflict with him; and now
Macduff confronts him. Their eyes meet,
while before Macbeth, appears that cruel
picture, the murdered wife and babes. Ah!
well may he tremble and his courage for-
sake him at such a bloody sight.
"Get ye back,” he cries, ‘My soul is too much
Charged with blood of thine already! ’
Hear you that deep wail of remorse?
That cry of regret from the depths of a lost
soul?
	It is not fear that robs him of his wonted
valor, that disarms him in the presence of
this man. ’Tis his long outraged conscience
which reasserts a momentary power.
	Macduff’s soul burns for vengeance, he
longs to test his trusty sword upon this foul
despoiler of his happiness, and only scouts
this tardy penitence, even if he understands
it, and turns to taunt him with his coward-
ice.
	Stung by this taunt, Macbeth assumes his
leading roll—again takes refuge behind the
imagined charm upon his life. But being
speedily disenchanted by his eager antagonist
he finds all too late,
‘‘That juggling fiends are not to be believed,
That palter with us in a double sense
That keep the word of promise to our ear
And break it to our hope”
	He has no heart to fight with the much
injured Macduff; but he will not become a
willing subject for the jeers of the rabble he
has ruled.
	That brief moment of remorse is past—
and he has lost the last vestige of the faith
to which he clung, yet his challenged spirit
is again aroused—-
[column 2]
			“Lay on Macduff,
And damned be him who first cries, Hold!
	Enough!”
			GLADYS WOODMANSEB.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	231


MUSINGS.

	O STERN unrelentless fortune!  How
often, oh how often I had looked into thy 
face for one fond reassuring smile. How
often I had begged entreated for one pass-
ing look, but you passed me sternly by. 
	In the bitterness of my heart I upbraided
thee still with calm indifference you scorn-
fully gazed upon me; disdain was mingled
with your every look. 
	I saw fair fame standing on heights far,
far above me; thousands with perseverance
and energy for their guide steadily climbing
towards her; upon them beamed her warm-
est smile, I reached out my hand in entreaty
and supplication but Alas! She heeded me 
not.
	With jealous eye I fancied I saw an indif-
ferent look upon Hope's sweet, smilling
face.
	Days, months, and years passed by and 
still my soul writhed in deepest agony.
"A change came o'er the spirit of my
dreams.”
	Among the surging crowd came one with
noble presence, a beautiful woman plainly
dressed,  her only jewels, modesty and intel-
ligence.  The spirit of purity and truth 
were her safe guards.  A moment  she
gazed into my despairing face, approached
me and said pointing to the crowd, who
were climbing the tree of knowledge, some
with blushed faces and aching hearts and
others in whose flashing eye, "and I will con-
quer," seemed written in burning letters of 
fire.
	In silvery tones she asked, “Wouldst
thou be one of those brave sons and 
daughters so valiantly climbing the tree of
life?” To my burning words of grief and 
protestation in low, sad words she replied,
	‘‘Dost thou think for one moment that
one step can be gained, that fair fame can
ever be reached without first conquering 
thy self?  Hast thou been diligent? Hast
thou struggled to overcome a few of the 
many obstacles to be found in life’s path-
way? Be brave and struggle on.  Soon
she too passed along and soon I saw her 
one of the foremost of the busy workers.
	The words of Solomon rang in my ear
"Go to the ant thou sluggard: consider her
wasy and be wise.”
	I bent my head in shame as I bitterly
reflected on the time spent in idle regrets,
as I raised my eyes a messenger again a
messenger of peace stood before me 
his clothes were soiled with travel; stern-
ness mingled with love and truth were
stamped upon his kindly face, he seemed to
read my innermost soul and pointing to a 
beacon light which he held in his right
hand said, “see I have brought you light
and comfort if you will but obey the call
made upon you by your Father in Heaven;
believe in him.  If thou wilt but obey the 
still small voice within thee, every aspira-
tion of a noble and elevating character will
be in thy reach.  Does not everything poi nt
out God a being of intelligence?” As the 
truth of this glad message entered my
heart I looked around me in dazed wonder-
ment, all seemed so changed, Hope seemed 
smiling, all nature smiled.  I looked again
at the messenger and he as though divin-
ing my thoughts, in low gentle tones asked

[column 2]
“Is not the change in thee?” and then 
silently left me to my thoughts.  In the
language of the poet I bring my article to a
close.
“Who’er thinks a faultless face to see
Thinks what ne’er was ne’er is, nor e’er shall be
In every work regard the writer's end
Since none can compass more than they intend.”
						IDA HAAG.


R. S. REPORT.

STAR VALLEY STAKE.

	REPORT of the Relief Society Conference
of the Star Valley Stake, held at Afton,
Dec. 10th and 11th, 1894. Three good
meetings were held, the afternoon of the 11th
being occupied by the Primary. The sisters
were supported by the presence of Presi-
dent Osmond and his Counselor and Brother
Burton, also by Brother Cazier Stake
Patriarch. Bishop Waite of the Afton
Ward; Brother W. S. Muir, Jr. of Bounti-
ful, and several others of the leading breth-
ren of the ward.
	Home Industry, in the way of carding,
spinning, knitting and weaving was en-,
couraged by the brethren in their remarks,
and with the ideas advanced in relation to
the planting and caring for trees and small
fruits adapted to our climate are receiving
more or less attention all over the stake.
As a result of these teachings which have
obtained to some extent for two or three
years, several looms are in operation, and
the hum of the old-fashioned spinning-
wheel may be heard in a number of our
homes. The strawberry a plant that thrives
and yields well is being cultivated, and we
hope that ere long we may have plenty of
this delicious fruit, both in its season and to
put down for winter use.
	Favorable reports were heard from the
branches of the Society in four of the
wards; the other three wards not being
represented; the weather being unfavorable
for those living at a distance.
	President Kittie E. Dixon encouraged the
sisters to continue their labors, and strive
to meet all the requirements made of them
whether spiritual or temporal.
	Several of the sisters bore their testimonies
and a general good feeling prevailed during, 
the conference.
	The General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sus-
tained. Sister Parsons second counselor to
Sister Dixon having moved out of the
stake Sister Johanna Cook was sustained to
fill the vacancy. Conference adjourned for
six months the second Monday in June. 
				LUCY E. CALL, Sec. 

		WAYNE STAKE. 

Relief Society Conference convened in
the Loa, R. S. Hall, Nov. 24th. 1894. After
opening exercises minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and approved.
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to see so many present, prayed the
Spirit of God would dictate the speakers.
Spoke of the instructions given at the Gen-
eral Relief Society Conference and of the
duties of mothers, said they should teach
their children to fast and observe the duties ,
required of them. The Word of Wisdom,
storing of grain, mulberry growing and
many other good subjects were spoken up-
on.
 President Margaret Taylor reported the


Loa, R. S. in good condition, also bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Lyman R. S. was reported doing well
by President Helen Maxfield.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke on being
examplary in our lives, and upon the train-
ing of children in the right way. Mary E
Adams reported Teasdale, R. S. also bore
testimony. Sister Lucinda Brown spoke of
the necessity of the sisters meeting often
and having their spiritual strength renewed;
spoke of burying our dead in a proper
manner.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the word of wisdom and other subjects in
an interesting manner. Singing, “A poor
wayfaring man of grief" and benediction
by Nancy Blackburn.
	AFTERNOON EXERCISES:  Singing,
“Come come, ye Saints,” Prayer offered
by Sister Maria Jakeman. Singing “The
time is far spent. ” A circular letter from
the General Board was read. President
J. S. Coleman explained the annual pay-
ments and spoke of donations, said the sis-
ters should bring in their donations every
month and receive the blessings in store for
them, also spoke of the necessity of having
Sister Sorenson come and teach a class, that
the sisters might be benefitted by her
knowlege.
	President Sarah Meeks reported the
Thurber R. S., in good working order.
Sister Margaret Pace made remarks which
were timely, also Sister Emma Francom on
the care of health. President Louisa J.
Talor reported Freemont R. S. doing well.
Counselor S. S. Forsythe spoke upon
Economy, household work, gave good ad-
vice to young housewives, spoke upon our
blessings and privileges and so forth. Sis-
ters Sarah Morrell and Anna Kingstrup
spoke and bore testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel. President J. S. Coleman made
some closing remarks, after singing Confer-
ence adjourned for six months. Benedic-
tion by Elizabeth Jeffrey.
			ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

WASHINGTON CO. W. S. A.
	WE are progressing fairly well with our
Woman’s Suffrage, of course we have the
usual amount of prejudice and erroneous
ideas to contend with that all such move-
ments have, still I am in hopes that by be-
ing cautious and prudent and going slow
at first, we will be able to overcome these
prejudices. We have had two very interest-
ing and instructive lectures having called
special meetings for that purpose. One by
Hon. E. G. Woolley, “Fundamental
Principles of Government. One by A.
M. Tanner when he was down here a few
weeks ago, on “Public Opinion.” The
Washington Co. W. S. Association has some
very able women both as officers and mem-
bers, and must certainly result in a great
deal of educational work among the
people.

UINTAH CO. W. S. A.
	THE following are the minutes of or-
ganization of the “Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation in this County.” The ladies of
Uintah Co. met at the Vernal Stake house 
to organize a Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion, Sept. 25th, 1894. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
as chairman. The meeting commenced by


singing, “Oh, come come away.” Prayer
was offered by Mr. R. S. Collett. Singing,
“Freedom’s Daughters Rouse From
Slumber.”
After several nominations, the organiza-
tion was formed of the following ladies,
who were unanimously sustained. Mrs.
Caroline A. Strineam, President. Sarah
Colton, First Vice President. Tillie Young,
Second Vice President, Miss Rose Reynolds,
Secretary and Mrs. Addie Longhurst
Treasurer. For Executive Committee,
Mrs. Saddie Holdaway Chairman, Mrs.
Nancy Colton, J. E. Dillman, Agnes Ben-
nion, Vilate Bennion. After remarks by
Mr. R. S. Collett, Mrs. Stevenson and Mr.
Jas. Hacking the audience sang America.
Benediction by Mr. Jas. Hacking.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MADAME SARAH GRAND takes a vivid
interest in the poor girls of London-town.
Every Thursday evening when she is in
town she attends Mrs. Frederic Harrison’s
Girls’ Guild at Newton Hall, and she joins
heartily in all their occupations.  She is a
strong believer in athletics for women, and 
has taken especial pleasure in helping to
provide the girls with pretty costumes for
gymnastics—Ex. 
	THE programme for the coming Con-
vention at Atlanta shows that Southern
men are coming forward to share the honor
of being champions of the rights of women.
Among the evening addresses will be 
speeches by Gen. Robert R. Hemphill, of
Abbeville, South Carolina: Col. J. Colton
Lynes, of Kentucky, and Henry C. Ham-
mond, of Georgia; while Rabbi Reich,
Revs.  Robb and Cole, of Atlanta open
the evening sessions with prayer.  The
southern women whose names appear on
the evening programme are Mrs. Caroline
E. Merrick and Mrs. Elizabeth Lyle Saxon,
of New Orleans, and Mrs. Josephine K.
Henry, of Versailles, Kentucky.
	THE president of the Georgia Woman
Suffrage Association requests us to say that
all delegates to the coming National Con-
vention will be supplied with badges,
which they are requested to wear at all 
times, in order that the courtesies of the 
occasion may be the more easily extended
them.  For the same reason, all visitors
who are not delegates are requested to wear
a yellow ribbon at all times; and all,
whether delegates or visitors, are requested
to have on a yellow ribbon when they 
arrive.
	All delegates and visitors are requested 
to register name and hotel on entering, for
the first time, the hall in which the sessions
of the convention will be held.  Books for 
this purpose will be found at the entrance
of the hall.  Regular delegates will please
register in “Delegates’ Registry;” visitors,
in “Visitors’ Registry.”


OBITUARIES.
	IT is with feeling of sadness that we announce
the death (at Sandy Utah) of our beloved sister
and co-laborer, Avrilda Burkingshaw, after a severe
illness of four weeks with typhoid fever. Avrilda
Burkingshaw Williams was bom in Masbrough,
Yorkshire England, March 11th, 1856. Was
united in marriage to Joseph Burkingshaw, 6th of
Nov. 1876, at Rotherham England, and joined the
Church in 1885, she leaves a husband and two
sons. Father, mother and sister and hosts of
friends. 
	While we mourn for her, we know that God
has called her home, for a wise and glorious pur-
pose.


She was teacher in our Relief Society, has been
an untiring worker, and always on hand to assist
in every call, that has been made and was
charitable to the poor, she was a faithful worker
in the choir being gifted with a sweet voice.
	The casket was very elegant and covered with
a profusion, of floral offerings, by sympathizing
friends. The pallbearers were teachers of our
Relief Society. The remains were taken to the
Meeting House and the funeral took place Oct.
10. at 2. p. m. and was conducted by Bishop
James Jensen, President Angus Cannon, Bishop
Holman, J. G. Fones, J. C. Brown made very ap-propriate remarks.
	The choir was olso in attendance. A massive
vault, has been erected which was dedicated by
President Angus M. Cannon.
	The remains were followed to the cemetery by
her family relations, and the large concourse of 
sympathizing friends evidencing the respect and
esteem in which she was held.
	At the resurrection morning,
	We shall all appear as one,
	Oh! what robes of bright adorning
	Will the righteous then put on. 
		WILHELMINA OLSON, Prest.
		HARRIETTE WILSON, Coun. 
		HILDA Larson, Sec.

	DIED at Mancos, Colorado, Nov. 17, 1894, Mary
Jane Slade. The cause of her death was internal
cancerous tumor. Sister Slade was the daughter
of Samuel and Ada Western, and was born at
Birmingham, England, Dec. 22, 1850. She emi-
grated with her parents, to Utah in 1868. Lived
in Salt Lake City about a year, moved from there
to Spring Valley, Nev; where she was married to
Jefferson Slade June 20th, 1869. Moved from 
Nevada to Southern Utah, finally emigrated to
the San Juan Valley 1881, and had been a resident
of Mancos, Colorado since 1888. She was the
mother of nine children, seven of whom are still
living. She filled the position of second counselor
to the President of the Relief Society for two
years prior to her death, and was faithful in the
performance of the duties pertaining to her office,
in fact, was most exemplary in all her conduct,
quiet and unassuming, but steadfastly pursuing
the path of duty, and leaving without complaint
the trials and burdens of life. 			L. M.W.


V sit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894. and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.	NO. 15—16


CONTENTS:
	Woman Suffrage Column. The Agricultural
College of Utah Experiment Station—Colton.
U. W. P. Club—L. S. Wilcox. Brothers And
Sisters—L. L. Greene Richards. A Surprise,
Young Women’s Ideas. Utah Woman’s Silk As-
sociation. R. S. And P. A. Reports. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Vilate Young. In The
Year of Our Lord 1894. National American W
S. Convention. Welcome Awaits The N. A. W
S. A. Bread Making. Notes And News. In
Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Convention In Atlanta.
	POETRY:—Undersong—Mary C. Francis. Our
Home Above—L. L. Greene Richards. Thoughts
Of Home—E. R. Shipp. Sometime—Selected.


UNDERSONG.

“TIS said that joy doth most illume the heart,
	Yet sometimes sorrow sings.  A bruised rose
Is sweet; the nightingale, pierced with thorn-
		dart,
	Pours forth divinest warblings of her woes,
That clave the listening air, and, swelling, floats
To blend faint harmony with angel’s notes.
	As the far ocean’s moans, on sullen stones,
Die with faint music in their undertones,
So in the soul the after-time of pain
Makes a soft undersong like dropping rain.
Late, soon or late, the pendulum of fate
Swings from despair to hope—thou must but wait;
Soon, late or soon, is given the final boon,
The glorious radiance of eternal noon.
How know we but that heaven’s sweetest tones
Are transformed echoes of earth’s saddest 
	moan’s?”
				MARY C. FRANCIS.


OUR HOME ABOVE.
	(Air “The Old Folks at Home.”)
WAY up among the “Many Mansions,”
			Fair, fair to see!
Where Christ, the blessed, holds our ransoms,
		There’s where we hope to be.
There once with father dear, and mother,
			Happy were we;
And with the Saviour’s King, our brother,
		There’s where we hope to be.
CHORUS.
Though our lives are glad and cheery,
	Filled with works of love;
Yet oft the heart grown faint and weary,
	Longs for its home above.
How many loved ones, true and tender,
			From earth set free,
Are dwelling now in bliss and splendor,
		There, where we hope to be.
Like ripened fruit, or leaf, or flower,
			From parent tree,
Some cherished friend is called each hour,
		Home, where we hope to be.

CHORUS.
Thus clouds are ever shadows casting,
		O’er Times rough sea;
But pleasures will be pure and lasting,
		There, where we hope to be.
Sometimes, in hallow’d dream or vision,
		Earth seems to flee;
One glimpse of Heaven brings decision— 
		There's where we, too, must be.


CHORUS.
Soon will the mystic veil be riven—
	Sing, Sing with glee!
While faithful to each trust that’s given, 
	In what we all must be.
Blest Faith, which gives the soul expansion,
	God’s grand decree;
That each may earn a glor’ous mansion,
	There, where we all shall be!
CHORUS.
In that life most bright and cheery,
	Filled with peace and love,
Our hearts will never more grow weary,
	Safe in that home above.
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN,
UTAH W. S. A.
	MRS. PRESIDENT, officers and members
of the National American Woman Suffrage
Association.
	Since we made the report from Utah to
the Convention held in Washington in
February, 1894, public affairs in the terri-
tory have very materially changed. Where-
as heretofore Congress has opposed the ad-
mission of Utah to statehood, this last year
there was little or no opposition. An
enabling act having passed the Congress of
the United States, providing for a Constitu-
tion to be framed suited to the conditions
of the country, and in harmony with the
laws of the Republic, we look forward with
great hope to the Constitutional Conven-
tion which will convene in the coming
March, believing that the men of our
Territory will stand for equal suffrage, and
that the word male will be excluded from
the statutes of the new state, giving all
persons born in America, or naturalized,
the same rights to citizenship. The divi-
sion of the voters on strictly party lines did
much towards bringing Utah into favorable
recognition by the government; the ques-
tions that once agitated the people are
obliterated, and in this respect as regards
women, much was accomplished through
the work done for the Columbian Exposi-
tion, when all women combined their efforts
to make the Utah exhibit a complete success
in every line, or department of woman’s
work. This has also given suffrage senti-
ment a more wide-spread recognition from
the fact that women who had once been
enfranchised, and who had practically
realized the privileges of the ballot; through
mingling with those who were new to the
Territory, and indifferent on the subject, 
(some of them even opposed) by their as-
sociating, became unawares as it were,
partially if not wholly converted to woman
suffrage.
	Previous to the election of delegates to
the Constitutional Convention which was
held in November last, considerable cam-
paign work was done by both the popular
parties, Republicans and Democrats, and
suffrage women in the several counties used
their utmost influence and best powers

[Column 2]
of persuasion to diffuse the ideas of equal
rights. Here and there women were in-
vited to speak in political meetings, and
they usually responded. All the political
parties in Utah adopted resolutions in their
platforms, practically pledging themselves
(in a way) to work for women suffrage in
the State convention.
	The W. S. A. in the territory has been
 very conservative, and has not as an as-
sociation affiliated, or allied itself to any
party, but maintained its allegiance to the
woman suffrage question proper, awaiting
developments and holding itself in readi-
ness to work with a purpose when the
opportune time should arrive, as come it
will, and must.
	Meantime, the members have not been
idle, or off their guard, but have sought
diligently in season and out of season to
spread the good word. Debates have been
frequent and numerous on this question, and
have been held on public platforms, and in
social and literary clubs by the young peo-
people, and even children. Only the very
day I left home to come to the convention,
a boy not more than twelve years old came
to me for literature and information, telling
me he was to debate on woman suffrage
with one of his schoolmates, and adding,
“I am on the affirmative and I’m going to
win.” “Of course, you will,” I replied,
“it’s the winning side."
	There are nineteen counties organized
now in Utah, three during this last year,
and although money is very scarce in the
West, we are determined to keep up our
membership to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, because we
feel that in union there is strength, and
believe that the women of all states and
territories in the United States, should
unite on this great question which means
so much for womenkind, and for the better-
ment of all the world. We are determined,
as an association in Utah, not to be aggres-
sive, but to maintain our integrity to the
cause of equal suffrage which we have so
much at heart, and hold ourselves as a
reserve force, feeling sure that the time is
near at hand when the womanly and moral
element will be needed in the nation to
co-operate with men in the solution of the
grave questions which agitate the country,
the great wrongs to be righted, in which
women are as deeply interested as men,
mortgage indebtedness, bonding, excessive
taxation, and other serious matters which
call for reform, and to materially assist in
these matters, women must have equal
political privileges and advantages with the
men of the nation.
	The Utah suffragists have very strong
backing in the young men born in the vales
of the Wasatch, with an inheritance of the
love of freedom (a characteristic peculiar to
mountainous countries,) and nurtured by 
the mothers and fathers who prized liberty 
dearer than life. A number of the dele-
gates to the coming Constitutional Conven-
tion are young men who cherish these
principles, therefore we consider the out-
look most hopeful and encouraging. A
delegation of women will doubtless be care-


[Column 1]
fully selected to go before the convention
and listen, watching carefully any and every
measure calculated to infringe upon the full
freedom and liberty of women, and to
present petitions, if needful, should emer-
gencies unlooked for arise.
	Our conditions are very favorable as re-
gards the press; the State papers (almost
without exception) will publish a reason-
able amount of suffrage matter and the
country papers are equally helpful in this
respect. Home magazines devote space to
these subjects, and we have a competent
State Press Committee.
	We have had since June first 1872, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT which has always
advocated equal suffrage ever since it was
established, and though it is comparatively
local in its circulation, yet it is ever loyal
to the rights of women and to the National
Association, and it is circulated in many
states and territories, also in foreign coun-
tries, and upon the islands of the sea. This
little paper has certainly been an important
factor in educating the women of our
mountain vales in the suffrage cause. To
be sure, some parts of our territory are
more active in organized work than others,
and have more local clubs, but generally
speaking, the tendency is to solidity, and in
the right direction.
	In my opinion, there are two good reasons
why the women of Utah should have the
ballot, apart from the general reasons why
all women should have it. First: because
the franchise was given to them by the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and they exercised it
seventeen years, never abusing the
privileges, nor was any cause assigned for
taking the ballot away from them, except
as a political measure.
	Second: There are undoubtedly more wo-
men in Utah who own their own homes
and pay taxes (if in a small way) than in 
any other state with the same number of
inhabitants, and Congress has, by its enact-
ments in the past, virtually made many of
these women heads of families.
	And in conclusion, let me say the con-
ditions of equality in all our educational in-
stitutions is and has always been the same
for girls as for boys. It was the sentiment
of the founders of the territory, and has no
doubt had a broadening influence upon the
whole body politic of that grand and
promising rising star in the West which is
now about to emerge from the obscurity in
which it has been hidden into the bright
galaxy of states, and take its place with the 
stars of equal magnitude in the Western
domain of the Republic.
			E. B. WELLS, President.
		
		SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held in the
14th Ward, December 18th 1894. President 
E. B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang “Hark
the sound of myriad voices.” Prayer by
E. J. MacFarlane, Sang, “Our Country.”
Minutes read and approved. Roll called.
President Ferguson gave an opportunity
for those present to give their names, re-
ferred to the motion made at last meeting,
a letter had been sent to Mrs. Youngblood.
Decided we would not hold two weeks
meetings till after the holidays. The Presi-
dent gave an excellent address on “Woman
Suffrage in relation to social reform.” Mrs.
Tibbles President of the W. C. T. U. read
a short paper in regard to the work in
which she is engaged, 50,000 petitions had
been sent in, but it did not seem to have

[Column 2]
accomplished much, there are only sixty
ladies actively interested in the temperance
movement in Utah and no member of the
Latter-day Saints church. The lady want-
ed assistance from all.
	E. J. MacFarlane stated that the prin-
ciples taught by the Latter-day Saints em-
brace the temperance movement. Miss
Burton, President of the Rescue Mission,
thought if we had a vote it would help us
in our work, she then made a very touch-
ing appeal on behalf of the many young
girls who are being led astray, announced
a meeting to be held in the M. E. Church,
to help raise means. Referred to the need
of a matron in the city jail. Dr. Fergu-
son thanked the ladies for their attendance.
Ruth M. Fox endorsed all that had been
said, this was a day when we needed to be
self-reliant, women, had always thought
men should be just as good as women.
Maria Holt was chosen as assistant Secre-
tary. Dr. Ferguson appointed as a com-
mittee in regard to visiting those who
could appoint a police matron.
	It was then announced that at our next
meeting a paper, women as wage-earners,
would be read by Louise Badger. Ad-
journed till January. Benediction by M.
E. Irvine.		MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held January
15th 1895 in the 14th Ward Hall, Presi-
dent Dr. Ferguson in the chair. Sang
‘Why do we seek” Prayer Ruth M. Fox,
Sang “Oh ye fair ones” Roll call. Min-
utes for December read and approved.
President Dr. Ferguson then read a letter
from Mrs. Youngblood, thanking the ladies
for notice of her letter. Business was then
attended to carried that we meet twice a
month. Louise Badger then read a paper
on, “Women as wage earners,” President
Hannah Lapish of American Fork ad-
dressed the audience, in her usual pleasant 
and able manner. President Dr. Ferguson
then referred to a petition that is being,
circulated in Weber and David Counties,
decided that we have a similar petition for
Salt Lake Co. Adjourned till Tuesday
January 22nd. Dismissed by E. J. Mac-
Farlane. M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF
UTAH EXPERIMENT STATION.
PRESS BULLETIN.
	WE have received a copy of bulletin No.
37 of the Utah Experiment Station. It
treats on “Fruits and Fruit Trees; Orna-
mental, Forest and Shade Trees.” Ex-
periments with different varieties of straw-
berries, grapes, peaches, apricots, cherries,
plums, pears, apples. It also contains a
short chapter on “orchard culture,” and one
on “ornamental, forest and shade trees.
The bulletin is summed up as follows:
1.	Parker Earle, Sharpless and Thomp-
son’s No. 7., are recommended as promis-
ing strawberries.
2.	The following varieties of grapes are
recommended for trial: Concord, Delaware,
Early Victor, and Massasoit, the Early
Victor being specially recommended for
places subject to early freezes.
3.	Only the peaches generally classed as
early or mid-season should be planted in
Cache county and localities with a similar
climate.
4.	Russian apricots are specially recom-
mended where the larger kinds will not
thrive on account of severe winters.


5.	Sour cherries, such as Mt. Large
and Early Richmond, should be planted
where the sweet cherry does not thrive. 
	6.	Sowing lucern, timothy, or clover
in a young orchard should be discouraged.
	7.	Poplar trees are shown to be the
most promising for general forestry pur-
poses.
	8.	The growing of some of the hard-
wood trees, such as Black and White Wal-
nuts and Ash, can probably be made 
profitable.
	This bulletin should be studied by the
horticulturists of the Territory.
	IN proportion as nations get more cor-
rupt, more disgrace will attach to poverty,
and more respect to wealth.  There are
two questions that would completely re-
verse this order of things:  What keeps
some persons poor?  And what has made
others rich?  The true answer to these
would often make the poor man more proud
of his poverty than the rich man is of his
wealth, and the rich man more justly
ashamed of his wealth, than the poor man
unjustly now is of his poverty.—Colton.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met at
the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp.  Thursday
evening Jan 31st.  The president in the 
chair.  Opening prayer by Mrs Maria W.
Wilcox.  The roll was answered by poetical
sentiments.  Minutes of previous meeting 
read and approved.
	A paper on Milton by Mrs. Nellie C.
Taylor was read by the secretary.  The
reading was followed by a discussion on the 
life of the great, blind poet by members and
visitors. 
	A paper on Rubenstein, original and
edifying, was given by Dr. E. B. Ferguson.
	Miss Claire Ferguson favored the club
with a piano solo.
	It was then announced by the president
that there is to be a meeting of the Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs in this city Feb.
27.  A representative should be sent from
the Press Club, and a subject chosen for her
to speak upon. 
	Miss Ada Patterson of the Herald sug-
gested that the club at some time discuss
the subject “Women in Journalism.”
	Dr. Ferguson suggested that we also dis-
cuss “The Best Method of Carrying on a 
Club for Working-girls.”
	Miss Patterson also suggested that we 
some evening devote the time to John
Ruskin.
	Adjourned until Feb. 15th, closing prayer 
by L. S. Wilcox.
	As it was entertainment evening, after
the close of the regular session, an hour was 
spent in social conversation and the enjoy-
ment of refreshments.  Although the at-
tendance was light, members and visitors
parted feeling they had been repaid for
coming. 	
			L. S. WILCOX, Rec. Sec’y.


THE Idaho Legislature has voted to sub-
mit at the next general election a consti-
tutional amendment giving full suffrage to
women. The vote for it in the Senate was
unanimous. The figures of the vote in the
House have not reached us. The Idaho
Republicans and Populists both declared for
equal suffrage at their last State conventions


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF HOME.

THE beauteous sky of gorgeous hue,
	Now seems to meet the waters blue,
And gallant ship and light canoe
	Are passing far beyond my view
But sweetest thought of all the rast,
	We’ll meet again out in the west.

Afar from ocean’s roar and brine
	There is a distant western clime,
Round which my heart-strings fondly twine,
	That is the home for me and mine,
Oh may we there all safely meet,
	And know the joys of home so sweet.

There is a fair and chosen land,
	Where dwells a true and faithful band,
Led by our Father’s allwise hand.
	And they the Truth so understand,
They would forsake all earthly ties,
	That they might gain eternal lives.
						E. R. SHIPP.


SOMETIME.

M. R. SMITH
SOMETIME when all life’s lessons have been
		learned,
	And sun and stars forever more have set,
The things which our w[-]ak judgments here have
		spurned,
	The thi gs o’er which we grieved with lashes
		wet,
Will flash before us, amid life’s dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue,
And we shall see how all God’s plans were right,
	And what seemed most reproof, was love most
		true.
And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for you and me—
How, when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e’en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to crying babyhood,
So God, perhaps, is keeping from us now
	Lifes sweetest things because it seemeth good.
And you shall shortly know that lengthened
	breath,
Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
	And that sometimes the sable pall of death
Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
	If we could push ajar the gates of life,
And stand within, and all God’s workings see,
	We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
And for each mystery find there a key—
	But not today.  Then be content poor heart,
God’s plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
	We must not tear the the close shut leaves apart
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold;
	And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
Where tired feet with sandals loosed, may rest,
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
I think that we shall say, ‘God knew the best.”
								SELECTED.


[Column 1]
BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, if you must love,
		Love one another.”
	The above sentiment is said to have been
found in a lady’s scrap book at a hotel. I
do not like it. It is too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	If brothers are not all that they should
be, the influence of good-natured, sweet-
tempered, pure-minded sisters will do much
to aid in their reform. Few boys, or men,
are naturally so very bad that the gentle,

[Column 2]
persuasive voice, and affectionate ways of
a true woman will have no weight with
them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are mean,
cross, and seemingly altogether worthless;
and it is not in the power of mothers or
sisters to reclaim them. And even such
ones, sometimes, get wives with tender
hearts to break.
	Perhaps the writer of the lines I have
quoted was one who had suffered from
being afflicted with such an irreclaimable
brother or husband. I pity the woman,
who ever she was, whose experience could
have led her to the expression of such a
bitter feeling.
	A piece of advice, frequently offered by
elderly women to young ones, is, “never
marry a man who is not kind and thought-
ful of the welfare and comfort of his mother
and sister.” This is excellent counsel, to
which sensible girls mostly give heed. Yet,
even men who have seemed somewhat
careless and inconsiderate of the rights and
feelings of mothers and sisters, are some-
times won over to better things, by the
prudent cheerful words and ways of af-
fectionate wives. A man should also be
careful in selecting a wife, not to get one
who is ungrateful, or regardless of the
happiness or discomfort of her father or
brothers.
	If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who are unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for at-
tention, he will, most likely, have acquired
the habit of making refusals, and of look-
ing to be found fault with for doing so. It
is as unfair for sisters and wives to want to
be petted and indulged all the time, to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
towards those who depend so much upon
them.
	Brothers and sisters, who are early taught
to be cheerfully, and lovingly helpful, and
considerate towards each other, will find in
life, great stores of pleasure and happiness
which those who are not so taught will
never know.
	Young people must have young associ-
ates, in order to glean from youthful days
and years all the richness and sweetness
which they are calculated to contain.
Where brothers and sisters are all to each
other that they may be, and should be,
there can be no proper estimate placed upon
the true value of the love which exists be-
tween them. It is too pure and too exalted
to admit of calculation.
	It often happens that brothers and sisters
confide to each other matters which they
cannot explain even to their parents. They
are about the same age; their sentiments,
their desires, their aims and anticipations
are all the same, and for the time being
they are more to each other than all the
world beside.
	I thank God that I was reared in a
large family of tender, devoted, appreciative
brothers and sisters.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


ANTI-VIVESECTION.
	ONE of the latest acquisitions to the
membership of the National Council of
Women is the women of The American
Anti-Vivisection Society, who, through a
Committee of women, of which Mrs.
Caroline Earle White is Chairman, have
entered the National Council and will have


their work represented in its Triennial at
Washington, D. C., February 17th to
March 2nd.
	As this organization is so new in member-
ship, it may interest thouse who are already
in touch with the work of the National
Council of women, to know something of
the history of the Anti-Vivisection Society.
It seems particularly appropriate that these
women should have their work represented
in the Council, since the Society itself had
its origin in the thought and work of wo-
men.  It is an outgrowth from the Wo-
men’s Branch of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. Soon after
the the formation of the latter organization,
its members interested themselves very
much in the effort to put a stop to cruel ex-
perimentation upon animals, and once or
twice some of them went to Harrisburg
with a bill restricting vivisection, which
they tried, but unsuccessfully, to have pas-
sed by the State Legislature. At length,
stimulated to increased action by the argu-
ments of Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who
declared it a disgrace to America that no
Anti-Vivisection Society existed in our
Country, a few of the most ardent among
the Women’s Branch met together and with
the aid of some outside, effected such an
organization.  This was about ten years 
ago.  The infant Society had great dis-
couragement and opposition to work against,
and at first, its progress was very slow,
but of late years a marked change is visible
and there is every reason to think that the
subject is beginning to agitate the com-
munity to a hopeful extent.


A SURPRISE.
	THE sisters of the Society met at the
home of Sister Theresa Coombs, for the
purpose of a suprise party to celebrate the
thirty-sixth birthday of Sister Theresa
Coombs on the 28th day of Jan. 1895.
Sister Coombs was not at home at the time
and when she returned to the house she
found the tables spread with the necessaries
and comforts of life and in the adjourning
room quite a number of friends gathered to
witness the surprise and others followed.
The surprise was a success, the turn out
was unanimous their was about fifty
souls present; Bishop W. E. Hanks and
some others from a distance. There was
also a programe arranged by the sisters
after dinner of songs, recitations and
speeches which were successfully carried
out, and a very enjoyable time ensued.
The accompanying lines were composed by
Sister Smith and Sister Lazenby and read
by Maria Smith.

	We as a band of sisters,
		Tho’ we live in scattered homes
	Wish to make a birthday party,
		For our president Theresa Coombs,
	We have gathered here this morning
		Come from near and far away
	To celebrate the anniversary
		Of her thirty-sixth birthday,
	Now we’ll wish you many pleasures,
		Dreary scenes to drive away,
	Merry times, and many pleasant
		Happy returns of the day;
	And we’ll ask our Heavenly Father,
		Guide her in the ways of truth,
	Shield and guard her when she’s aged
		As He did her in her youth.
					MARIA SMITH,
					SARAH ANN LAZENBY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,			-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). 	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION IN ATLANTA.

	WE left S. L. City via U. P. R. R.
Saturday Jan. 26 ult. at 5-20 p m. and ar-
rived in Atlanta, Georgia, Wednesday
January 30th, at 11-40 a. m., in company
with Mrs. Marilla Daniels, Provo, and Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers, Farmington.
	We were met at the station by a delega-
tion of the Atlanta W. S. A., a gentleman
and two ladies wearing the yellow ribbon
badge, and went direct to the Aragon, a
fine hotel, the headquarters of the National-
American W. S. A. We found some
prominent suffrage women had already ar-
rived and soon after Susan B. Anthony
came and Mrs. Chapman-Catt, these ladies
had been speaking in several places in the
south and were delighted at the seeming
success of their labors.
	There is no need of describing Miss
Anthony to our readers or to newspapers
generally, she is so famous now throughout
the country, that she can stand alone and
independently as the central figure for equal
suffrage and is so popular that every wo-
man however ambitious accords to her the
honor due her noble work and individually,
and if she is not a queen of a kingdom she
is certainly a queen of hearts.
	Thursday evening the ladies were
notified there would be an informal meeting
in one of the hotel rooms reserved for Com-
mittees, and a half-past seven p. m. the
many representatives who had arrived were
assembled. The roll of states was called
and about thirty were represented, a few
words being spoken by each of the states of
suffrage work where there was an Associa-
tion at all. Miss Anthony as usual com-
menting in her original fashion and making
every one feel at home with her at least;
and she manifested a deep interest in Utah
and expressed the ardent hope that it would
be the next state to come into the union
with equal rights for all.
	Thursday 9 a. m. Jan. 31st, an Executive
session was held at which considerable
business was planned and at ten o’clock the
Convention opened in DeGive’s Opera
House. The suffrage flags were draped
over the platform and the seats were marked
off for the several states with yellow flags
and the name of each respective state
stamped on, so there was not the least
trouble in seating the delegations.
	Miss Anthony came forward amid
vociferous cheers from all parts of the house,
which was well filled, and about as many
men as women, and called the Convention
to orders, holding in her hands the historic
gavel that rapped to order the Legislature

[Column 2]
of Wyoming signalizing the first victory
for woman suffrage and stated the fact amid
the hearty applause of the audience and
asked politely that the foot-lights be
turned off explaining in a humorous way
her objections.

MISS ANTHONY’S GREETING.
	“Good Friends—This is the first national con-
vention of the Woman’s Suffrage Association that
I have ever had the honor to call to order south
of Mason and Dixon’s line. (Applause.) I am
delighted to stand here in the city of Atlanta and
open this twenty-seventh annual session of the
association. (Applause.) We have represented
here not only the sunny southland, but the states
of the far northwest—Oregon, Wyoming and
Colorado,—and even the Dominion of Canada.
(Applause.) I hold in my hand the gavel that
called to order the legislature of Wyoming that
gave to women the privilege of voting in this
country. (Loud Applause.) It is fitting that
America’s first republic—first in fact as well as
in name—should be planted on the heights of the
Rocky mountains. They indicate the eternal
principles on which the suffrage movement is
founded—the principles or equal rights to all
mankind. (Loud applause.) I hope the good
men of Atlanta will understand that we do not
claim to be the best half of creation, but we do
claim to be half: (Laughter.) I am sure
that our meeting in Atlanta will be a pleasant one
and that we are all glad of the privilege of meet-
ing in your beautiful city. Let us now proceed to
business and show the people of Atlanta that wo-
men know how to run a convention. (Laughter
and applause.)

REV. ANNA SHAW’S INVOCATION
	“Almighty God, our heavenly Father, and
Mother, we thank Thee for the providence that
has preserved the life and health of our honored
president and brought so many of us together in
this sunny southland. We thank Thee for put-
ting such a grand thought into the minds of our
noble women and for the assurance of Thy
blessed word that the mission of Jesus Christ was
to accomplish the freedom of all mankind. May
our deliberations be of such a character as to
hasten on the time when all shall recognize one
God and acknowledge themselves to be His
children. These petitions we ask in the name of
Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.”
	First in order was business, reports,
minutes of previous convention and ap-
pointment of Committees. While this was
going on pages were distributing to the
state delegations and members, badges of
yellow ribbon, representing the coat of
arms of Georgia, frightfully mutilated.
The Constitution instead of resting upon
these pillars of Wisdom, Justice and Mod-
eration, symbolizing the three branches of
government, only two were visible. Wisdom,
having disappeared, the others broken and
decayed; the military guard removed show-
ing woman has no protection under the laws
of the state; the real coat of arms is also
printed on the ribbon in striking contrast.
It is a unique affair and displays wit and
ingenuity in the one who devised it.
	The President appointed a committee on
“Plan of work,” for the ensuing year
(really the most important committee) con-
sisting of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, New
York, Chairman, Miss Mary G. Hay,
Indiana, Miss Laura Clay, Kentucky, Mrs.
Annie S. Deggs, Kansas, and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Utah. Our Territory was represent-
ed on the Executive Committee by Mrs.
Marilla Daniels, Provo; and Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers on the Committee on Resolutions;
so you will see Utah had its proportion on
Committee work. Some five minutes re-
ports from States consumed the remainder
of the time of the morning session.
	Afternoon session opened at 2-30 with a
crowded house, after prayer, reports of
standing Committees were presented and
short speeches from state presidents.
The evening session 8 p. m. opened with

[Column 3]
music by a fine, well trained band and
prayer was offered by Rabbi Reich; followed
by Mr. B. J. Conyers of Atlanta with an
eloquent Welcome on behalf of the South,
it was indeed a royal greeting.

BURNETT J. CONYERS WELCOME. 
	“To say that I am proud of this privilege,” said
he, “but feebly expresses the happiness I feel in
addressing this convention and in giving you the
welcome of our city, which more than counter-
balances the awkwardness of its presentation.”
(Applause.) The grace of greeting that char-
acterized the welcome of the young speaker was
profoundly appreciated by the convention. He
assured the delegates that the south was worthy
of them as they were worthy of the south. The
section had suffered from misunderstanding, but
the light of a new era was dawning upon her hills
and a morning flush was on her brow, betokening
a future of prosperity and progress. The speech
of Mr. Conyers was greeted with the wildest en-
thusiasm. He conceded that the south was con-
servative but he dared any one to say that it was
the conservatism of cowardice. She had never
repelled the logic of truth and she welcomed
this convention because it entered her gates in the
name of liberty for which she had sprinkled with
her bravest blood the battlefields of the revolu-
tion. He encouraged the delegates by giving
them his confident assurance that nothing
could prevent the ultimate triumph of the cause to
which they were devoted.

MRS. M. L. MCLENDON.
	She regreted that Georgia’s welcome devolved
upon an old woman who had never held an office
and never cast a vote in her life. (Laughter.)
“If you don’t make haste” continued she, ‘I’m
afraid I never shall. (Continued Laughter.) This
is a dignified convention, and it represents a great
movement, and I can tell you that all the sport and
fun that is made of us originates in the barrooms
of the country. (Laughter.) Rest assured that
if women could vote bad men would be scarce in
office. (Applause.) On the dome of our beauti-
ful statehouse is the statue of a woman, imperson-
ating the Goddess of Liberty, and when liberty
abides in fact, as it does in sentiment, within the
walls of that building there will be no doubt of
the triumph of woman suffrage in this grand old
state. (Applause.) Unhappily for our cause,
however, in the press and pulpit there happen to
be a few men who simply fatigue the indignation.”
(Great laughter.) Mrs. McLendon reviewed the
progress of suffrage in Georgia and made a glow-
ing prediction for the movement, not only in this
country, but throughout the world, she closed
her bright and witty speech by giving the conven-
tion a cordial welcome to the Cotton States and
International exposition, and stated that a special
day had been set apart for them.

MAJOR HUBNER’S GREETING.
	In words eloquent and poetic Major Charles W.
Hubner extended welcome to the women suf-
fragists to the Gate City. He stated that his
diffidence had been overcome by a sense of the
honor conferred upon him. “No true man or
woman,” said he, “can ignore the call of duty and
I feel it a duty, though a hapyy one. to welcome
this noble sisterhood to our city. (Applause.)
The opposition to this movement that springs
from a quixotic chivalry is the only one that you
will have to encounter. Reason and right are
with you and these, in the name of God, will at
last prevail. (Applause.) You have the right not
only to seek but to demand your rights.” (Ap-
plause.)
	Major Hubner then referred to the travail
through which Atlanta had passed to emerge in
beauty as the queen of the southland. He loved
Atlanta because the dust of those who were dear-
er to him than his own life were sleeping among
her hills. He was satisfied that the convention
would enjoy the atmosphere of Atlanta and that
both the city and the delegates would be the
happier for their intermingling. Though Major
Hubner began his speech by stating that he was
not a public speaker, it was evident that his
audience was impressed with the fact that he was
both a good and a great one.

MISS ANTHONY PRESENTED.
	Miss H. Augusta Howard, of the Georgia state
association, in a graceful little speech, next pre-
sented Miss Anthony to the audience as a woman
whose home was in Rochester, but who dwelt in
the hearts of millions who loved her.
	"No mortal ever received a heartier welcome
than you have given me tonight,” said Miss
Anthony; “and n behalf of the Woman’s Suffrage


Association, not only those who are here, but
those who are scattered among the hills and val-
leys of the continent, I return my profound ap-
predation.”
	Referring to the subject that was nearest to her
heart she said that when the suffrage movement
began, a married woman enjoyed no greater free-
dom in Massachusetts than a slave of the old
south. The suffrage movement, however, had
not only resulted in a reformation of the marriage
laws of Massachusetts, but the law of nearly
every state in the union had been modified. In
addition to this, two states had unconditionally
declared in favor of woman suffrage. In closing
her brief little speech, which created no small de-
gree of enthusiasm, Miss Anthony presented Miss
Lillie Devereaux Blake, the president of the
New York city league, who was given a hearty
reception.
	Lillie Deve[-]ea[-]x Bla[-]e is one of the
brightest and wittiest women of the country,
as well as a vigorous speaker and campaign
worker; and her speech was sprightly and
brilliant with gems of thought. Mrs. Dora
Phelps Buell of Colorado was next on the
program but was not present and Mrs. Lyde
Merriwether came forward and made quite a
hit by telling the story of Dr. Holmes who
being called to fiill a a place made vacant by
an absentee who was twice his size said he
could’nt fill a place but would rattle
around it as well as he could. Atlanta
papers said Mrs. Merriwether’s eloquent
speech was perhaps the best of the evening,
at any rate it was a pathetic appeal for the
mothers of the land.
	Miss Anthony introduced Mrs. Chapman
Taylor of Denver Colo., but formerly of
Alabama as the only voter present with
spicy comments. Mrs. Taylor merely ac-
knowledged the compliment of the intro-
duction and made a graceful but brief
speech. Miss Elizabeth U. Yates, of
Maine, was the last speaker of the evening.
She won the hearts of the Southern people
by paying a glowing tribute to Henry W.
Grody, and saying she had fallen in love
with the South. Her speech was—“Signs
of the Times,” and in the choice of
language and beauty of expression it was a
charming finish to a delightful day.
	It would be utterly impossible for one to
“tell it all” unless in a daily paper with an
extra edition, but we hope to publish from
time to time some of the best speeches
made by the ablest speakers. It was a
notable gathering of brilliant, cultured
brainy women. We shall publish as soon
as possible the Plan of Work and the Reso-
lutions as adapted by the Convention, also
the report from Utah, which pertains
specially to home matters. The Atlanta
evening Journal in its Saturday night
issue had this to say, which was commenda-
tory of the remarks made of the work in
Utah.
	When Mrs. Wells had concluded, President
Anthony came forward and putting her arm
around her gave her endorsement to the speaker.
As she told of the work being done in Utah she
kept her arms around the delegate and the audi-
ence was visibly affected at this exhibition of
affection.
	Of the many interesting things we have
seen and heard and the proceedings of the
Convention especially of evening sessions,
we can only promise more in the future
pages of our dear little paper of which we
could distribute thousands of copies in this
trip if we had them. In the meantime the
dear friends at home may be assured that at
present a[--] is well with the Utah delegation,
only we are anxious to see those who ex-
pected to attend the National Council of
Women in Washington D. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
YOUNG WOMEN'S IDEAS.

	MISS FLORENCE HUBERWALD, of New
Orleans, was introduced and spoke for the
cause. She has a strong voice and knows
how to use it. She said the women of New
Orleans are now studying public opinion
and they had won some notable moral
victories there, among them the banish-
ment of the lottery. There was other
work for them to do, she cried, with a great
deal of force, as the money power of the
land was tyranizing the people and driving
them to desperation. ‘In the name of
Liberty I speak,” she exclaimed, “and not
in the name of men and women. The
military spirit is gaining ground, the
children of the Sunday school are being
trained into military bands and everything
is tending to the military to tyranize the
people, and we are working for the equal
rights that women are entitled to and that
they should receive.
	Miss Yates, of Maine, made a short
speech abounding in cutting remarks
against mankind in general, which called
forth long continued applause.
	During the past century, she said, wo-
man’s sphere was said to be her home and
man’s sphere was all out of doors.
	“Gentlemen,” she continued, “haven’t-
you had the lions’ share of the business and
the lamb’s too?”
	She spoke of how much a woman was in-
terested in matters outside her own home
as her children spent two-thirds of their
time in the schools or in the streets. She
asked who was more interested in good
roads than those who wheeled the baby car-
riage?
	She laughed at the idea of women being
unable to understand the laws.
	“You never say,” she continued, “that a
woman who comes over from Europe with
a bustle made of diamonds and laces knows
nothing of the tariff laws.
	The custom officers never say, ‘poor
creatures, they don’t understand the busi-
ness and we’ll just let them pass.” Then
did you ever hear of a woman fool enough
to smuggle anything that was on the free
list?”
	The women had a weapon in this move-
ment, a weapon that was going to damage
some of the old-time politicians unless they
got out of the way.
	“The Quakers, you know,” said Miss
Yates, “are a very peaceable people and
they do not like to take life. The story is
told that one of them waked up one night, 
and found a burglar under the bed. He
reached out and got the pistol from the
place where it had been put by his wife, and
pointing it toward the place where the
burglar was lying, said to him in his mild
manner. “Friend, dost thee see this pistol?
I am going to shoot this pistol, and if thee
stayeth where thou art thee will get hurt.’
We are today saying to the politicians,
‘Friends, dost thee see this great movement?
We are going to shoot and if thee dost not
get out of the way thee will get hurt.”
	Mrs. Caroline Chapman Catt reported for
the committee on plan of work, as consid-
ered for the whole United States. In refer-
ring to the work in the south, she said the
head officers had always hesitated about put-
ting workers in the field as the south was
regarded as too conservative. Recently
numerous speakers had come into the south
and from the reports made by them it was
learned that the south was not conserva-
tive but ignorant and as soon as the people

[Column 2]
became informed they would rise up as one
man and give the ballot to woman.
	The committee recommended the organiz-
ing of clubs and the keeping of them alive,
and urged that the workers be put in the
field and kept there. It recommended that
a fund of $5,000 be raised, and urge that
special attention be given to South Carolina,
Utah and Tennessee, where constitutional
conventions were probable, and to Idaho
and Michigan, where it was likely that
amendments allowing women to vote should
be submitted to the voters. A course of
study, to be published weekly, like the
Sunday-school lessons, is recommended, the 
same embracing political science, to be
studied by members of clubs. Any one
taking such a course shall be entitled to a
diploma from the National Association, up-
on passing a satisfactory examination.
Each county club is urged to send repre-
sentatives to every county convention, and
each state association is urged to send
representatives to every state convention to
ask for the recognition of women as voters.
	The report, after some discussion, was
adopted.
	A collection was taken up to raise the
necessary $5,000 to carry out the plan.


UTAH WOMAN’S SILK 
ASSOCIATION.

	THE semi-annual meeting of the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association was held in the
old court room in the Wasatch block, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Jan. 22nd—Mrs. Margaret
B. Salisbury presided and Mrs. C. E. Al-
len occupied the secretary’s chair.
	Others on the stand were Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
A. Caine, Mrs, Amelia F. Young, Mrs. E.
B.Wells and Mrs. Lucy Clark of Farming-
ton.
	Mrs. Salisbury called the meeting to or-
der and in a few well-chosen words, ex-
plained the object of the association, which 
is primarily to promote the interests of seri-
culture in Utah, as the climate has proved
to be unusually well adapted to the cultiva-
tion of the mulberry trees and the growth 
of the silk worms.
REPORT OF OFFICERS. 
	The secretary read the reports of the
treasurer and secretary, the former showing 
the association to be in excellent financial
condition while the secretary's report was a
brief resume of the work accomplished,
meetings held and the successful exhibits of
Utah silk.
	Mrs. Allen also spoke in her report of the 
bill introduced in Congress for the establish- 
ment of five silk experiment stations, and
stated that a petition had been sent the 
House Of Representatives to secure one of
these stations for Utah. Hon. J. L. Raw-
lins had also been written to and in his re-
ply he had freely offered to do all in her
power toward securing one of the stations.
	Mrs. Salisbury then introduced Mrs. C.
W. Bennett, who read an able paper on this
history of silk in France.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young was the next
speaker and she chose as her topic the most
appropriate one of “History of Silk Cul-
ture in Utah." She went back to the days
of 1849, and her remarks were mostly
reminiscent, aud for this reason, doubly in-
teresting. Mrs. Young had been called the
mother of the silk industry in Utah and the
appelation is very appropriate, as she has al


ways been deeply interested in the subject.
	The next paper was by Mrs.
Salisbury, and her remarks were
directed to the exhibit of silk at the World's
Fair and how the matter received its first
promotion. She spoke of many words of
highest praise which she had heard for the
silk portieres of home-weaved silk which
formed such a striking feature of the Utah
exhibit.
	Mrs. Caine’s subject was “The Working
Exhibit at the World’s, Midwinter and Utah
Fairs.” She was in charge of the exhibit
at each exposition, and could tell better
than any one the effect produced on the
outside world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a short address
on “The Future of the Industry,” and said
that President Brigham Young had said
that is was destined to become a great in-
dustry, and she felt that his remark was
about to be fulfilled and the time would
come when silk will be manufactured here
in great quantities.
	Mrs. Stringham and Mrs. Clark, made
short addresses on the proper care of the
eggs and worms.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

PRIMARY THATCHER.

	THE people of Thatcher assembled at 
the Academy hall on Thanksgiving day to 
witness the exhibits of a conjoint fair, viz,
the Relief Society, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary. President Christopher Layton being
present expressed himself that the fair was
a credit to those who presided over it. It
was a grand sight to see the different speci-
mens of needle work, and all kinds of
fancy work. It was surprising to see how
many things were presented at the fair,
with such fine taste; and it was beyond any
thing that was anticipated for a newly
settled place. There was a dress made by
a little girl seven years old, that would be
a credit to older ones. There were many
beautiful things made by the little hands,
it would be impossible to name them all.
There was a beautiful selection of fruit for
tbe time of year. There were no animals
but some canary birds that were raised by
Primary girls. There were delicious cakes,
pies and jellies made by the little girls.
There were cupboards, clock shelves, cor-
ner brackets, maps drawn, in fact they
were too numerous to mention by our Pri-
mary boys. There were nine presents
awarded in the Primary department for the
best work. The Primary was presided
over by the presidency of the Primary.
Selena Phillips, President, Maria McRea,
first counselor, Delia Curtis, second counse-
lor, with a committee to assist who were
Cyntha Layton, Susie Hendrick, Electa
Pace. 			SELENA PHILLIPS.


ST. JOSEPH.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake met in the
Academy building at Thatcher, Friday
Dec. 7th, 1894 at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
President Wilmirth East presiding. There
were on the stand William Johnson and
Henry Merrill of the Stake presidency, al-
so Patriarch P. C. Merrill besides other of
the brethren.
	After the usual exercises of singing, and
prayer by President Willian Johnson,


minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved. Verbal reports of the
several branches in the Stake were listened
to by the assemblage with great interest as
they showed an increased desire on the part
of all to perform their every obligation.
	President East was sorry that all the
Stake was not represented. Expressed her
willingness to labor as long as her Heavenly
Father desired her to, and on the other
hand was ready to go whenever He saw fit.
	Counselor Mary L. Ransom read a circu-
lar letter from President Zina D. H. Young
and Secretary E. B. Wells, on the necessity
of making their annual payments promptly
and regularly. The speaker then followed
with a few words of explanation regarding
the letter; also cautioned the mothers to
look after their children, keep them in at
night, know where they are and what they
are doing.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing, prayer by President Henry Merrill.
	In the afternoon the first speaker was
Counselor Serena Merrill who was over-
joyed to be with the sisters once more as it
had been some time since she had been
permitted to meet with them in conference
capacity owing to ill health. Felt that she
was blessed of the Lord and that He will
bless all who strive to serve him.
	Stake Treasurer Mary Taylor gave in
her report. Bore testimony to the divinity
of the work, felt to perform her duty, was
proud to own her God etc.
	Names of the officers of the Central
Board in connection with the Stake were
presented to the conference and unanimous-
ly sustained as were also three aids to the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
respectfully Elizabeth Layton, Maria
McRea and Mary E. Cluff.
	President East testified that these sisters
were chosen by inspiration, spoke on and
encouraged home industry in its various
branches.
	President W. Johnson and Elder George
Skinner thought the sisters as well quali-
fied to instruct and carry on their business
as were the brethren. Could see a gradual
improvement. Said the race is not to the
swift or the battle to the strong, but to the
steady and faithful.
	Counselor Ransom cautioned the officers
of the Relief Society to be very particular,
to whom they loan their wheat and that
they have good security, and that it be
returned with interest. The speakers
seemed to be endowed with the power of
God, and a good spirit prevailed through-
out the conference.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Jan. 26th
1895. President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing, “O, say what
is truth, etc.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Stevenson. Continued singing, "O, ye
mountains high.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes
of the 15th ward Primary Association.
	President Horne felt sorry no more of
the Primaries sent in minutes to be read.
It gives me much pleasure to listen to the
reports of the Young Ladies’ and Primary
Associations, am sorry there is such a
falling off in sending minutes to these
meetings. I hope the good spirit and in-
fluence present at our last meeting, will be


[Column 2]
manifested to day. If each will only say a
few words. We can have a time of rejoic-
ing. I feel to support the sisters, chosen
to represent us at the Congress. They can
carry reports where our Elders cannot go.
We love to have our enemies think well of
us. At the same time, we don’t want to
be too intimate with those not of our faith.
If you are of the world the world will love
you. But we have been called out from
Babylon, Paul said keep yourselves un-
spotted from the world. If we gurad well
ourselves we will be sustained under all
trials and temptations through which we
may be called to pass. I wish we were more
united. If we were the Lord would bless
us more abundantly. Politics have divided
us more than any thing else that ever
happened. Let us live our religion, putting
our trust in the Lord. The Saints can
understand the signs of the times. The
American nation is on the move. All
nations are in a state of unrest. We know
that only through our faithfulness can we
be saved. We want to be prepared as were
the wise virgins. Our mission is to feed
the hungry, and perform other good
works. May the Lord bless us abundantly
with his holy Spirit.
	Sister E. L. Taylor arose with peculiar
feelings. I desire your faith and prayers,
that I may say something interesting and
beneficial. How good our enemies are
getting. I think we are in a perilous con-
dition. When our enemies are too good to
us. As has been said, "if we are of the
world the world will love us.” There is a
great evil growing in our midst. It’s fault
finding. With our leaders and those hold-
ing offices in the Church. We should not
judge. Not knowing the motive. I hear
some say, I don’t believe this or that is re-
quired of us, we are not united, have not
that faith and confidence we should have or
this conditions of things would not exist.
I hope to see the day when all will fill their
positions as they should, stand up for right,
never allowing a word spoken against our
labors. A short time ago I heard a sister
speak in defense of a brother. She said I
am a Latter-day Saint, so is he, I will not
hear him spoken of thus, without raising
my voice against it. I trust all my sisters
will manifest the same spirit under the
same circumstances. Brother Young once
said if the Saints will sustain me it will be
all right with them. If I fail to perform
my duty God will remove me. If we are
determined to do wrong, God will allow it.
It is the duty of every Saint, to sustain the
authorities. I promise you in the name of
the Lord, those who do wrong will be
removed. Let us be careful we are not in
the wrong. Live as we may be led by the
still small voice. Attend faithfully to our
duties, putting our trust in the Lord. He
will bring us through every trial victorious.
In regard to my trip I am about to take, I
feel it will be impossible to do my duty
without the aid of you my sisters. We
need your faith and prayers. We did good
work on the last trip, I hope we will not be
left one moment without the spirit of God.
We mingle with the best society. I hope
the Lord will tell us when to stop or when
to go on. I have no desire to go only to
perform my duty. I trust I may do noth-
ing to disgrace the cause I go to represent
am pleased to have an opportunity to tel
the world of our good and intelligent girls,
and of the good works being done. Sister
Zina Young is feeble, still she is willing to
come forth and perform her duty. Sisters


[Column 1]
perform your duties, sustain your presi-
dents, stand close by her, obey her counsel,
and I promise you, your associations will
be successful, go forward not backward.
	I have been associated with Sister Horne
for thirty years, I know she is a woman of
God, let us prove our love for her by obey-
ing her counsels. I thank you for your
kind attention. Don’t criticise me too much,
but pray for me. May the Lord bless us
continually with His holy spirit, is my
prayer.
	Sister Morris said I feel impressed by
the spirit to say, my sisters will go in peace
and return in safety.
	Sister Zina Young felt to say Amen to all
that had been said. I wish the words
spoken could be written on work with our
own pen There is little more to be said.
When I think of not being able to go into
our beautiful temple it makes me feel bad,
but my duty is foremost, if we are living
as Saints. We have the Holy Ghost to
guide us. We must work out our own
salvation with faith and trembling. It
stands us in hand to be faithful. The power
of the Lord is with his people. We are
greatly blessed. We have the word of God
right in this book, (Doctrine and Covenants)
Its right to praise God with our voices,
There is great power in fasting and prayer,
many mothers are left with the whole
charge of their children, Don’t stop pray-
ing, if you seek the Lord He will be near
you. We should bless each other, rather
than find fault. The Prophet Joseph used
to say, we didn’t bless each other half
enough. Don’t be over anxious but enjoy
the blessings given, and not find fault. If
we are faithful the world will be astonished
at our works, and the Lord will not forget
us when he gathers up his jewels. I want
to hear my sister, may the Lord bless us
with his choicest blessings.
	A Sister said how beautiful are words
spoken by the spirit of God. I have great
love for my Sisters who are placed over us
to counsel and instruct. I have been
strengthened and encouraged by attending
these meetings, have passed through many
trials but have reserved strength to bear
them through the blessings of God. My
greatest desire is to continue faithful in all
things.
	Another Sister said I feel full of the
spirit of God. I love Sister Zina and
Taylor, felt to say God bless them I am
pleased to say our society is in a good con-
ditions, I hear no fault finding. Con-
gregation sang “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.’’
	A sister said my heart is full I can hardly
control my feelings, I pray the Lord to
bless the Sisters going away, and return
them in safety. Have no hard feelings to-
ward any one, want to sustain those in
authority. Sister Wilcox said my heart is
full of blessings for my sisters, I know the
power of God is in the earth. May he bless
us, and bear us off victorious. Sister
Brown also felt to bless her sisters. We
should not neglect our prayers, for the
prayers of the righteous availeth much if
we are faithful to our duty, the reward is
sure, made other remarks. Sister Morris
was thankful to be numbered with the
Saints, this people is my people, their God
is my God. I pray the Lord to bless our
Sisters, I know they will be blessed, and
accomplish much good. Sister Taylor then
explained the object of their mission, said
the number of young ladies’ enrolled in the
Improvement Associations thirteen thous-

[Column 2]
and five hundred. I am proud of this.
Sister Francis said this is the first meeting
I have attended, have greatly enjoyed the
remarks of the Sisters. Thought Lady
managers of sent to the world could ac-
complish a great amount of good, had
spoken to Brother Brigham Young upon
the subject while in England. Was pleased
to learn these Sisters were going forth, I
am sure they will accomplish much good
made other remarks. Other Sisters spoke
All testified of the good spirit present. The
subject of fault finding, evil speaking etc.,
was touched upon by many of the speakers,
all felt to condemn the paoctune, and to
live above it.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
hoped the Sisters would pray for the dele-
gates, they have great opportunities of
doing good. May the Lord be with them
on all occasions, and may the peace of God
accompany them on their journey. Sister
Morris again spoke under the influence of
the spirit, saying the mode of travel shall
be guarded for your sakes my Sisters. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks, sang “The
time is far spent.” Benediction, Sister
Julia Howe.
VILATE YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD 1894.

	THE Chicago Tribune has been keeping
count of the ghastly record of murders
committed during the past year. There
were 9,800 murders reported, almost 50 per
cent, increase over the previous year.
This doubtless is largely due to the enforced
idleness of such an immense proportion of
population. The causes of the murders are
thus tabulated:
	Quarrels, 4,536; unknown, 1,856; jeal-
ousy, 812, liquor, 776; by highwaymen,
525; infanticide, 340; resisting arrest, 273;
highwaymen killed, 204; strikes, 179; in-
sanity, 126; self defense, 99; outrage, 49;
riots, 25.
	The number of legal executions were
132, and the lynchings nearly one-half more,
or 190, of whom 134 were negroes. There
were lynched in the south 166 persons, and
in the North 24. Four-fifths of the
lynchings of colored men were not on ac-
count of crimes against women.
	The number of suicides has also increased
slightly, being 4,912. The causes are not
well classified, 3,309 coming under the heads
of “despondency” and “unknown.” It
seems that business losses are not a very
important factor, these giving rise to only
122, while, for what they called “love,”
232 shuffled off this mortal coil. But an
even larger number of the married found
life unendurable.
	The total embezzlements, public and
private, were the largest of any year on
record, amounting to $25,234,112.
	The figures certainly prove that adverse
times and conditions produce crime. They
afford much food for thought, and certainly
should arouse those who are saying,
“Peace, peace,’ when there is no peace.”


NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S.
CONVENTION.

	IN accordance with a resolution passed at
the last meeting of our Association in Wash-
ington, the Twenty-seventh Annual Con-
vention of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association, will be held in Atlanta,


Georgia, in De Give’s Opera House, Janu-
ary 31, to February 5.
	The object of these conventions is to edu-
cate women into a knowledge of their rights
and duties as citizens of a republic, and
through them to arouse the nation to a
sense of national wrong perpetuated by the
disfranchisement of half the people of the
United States, in opposition to the principles
of government declared by our laws and
constitutions.
	While Colorado’s full enfranchisement of
women, in 1893, is encouraging, the defeat
of the suffrage amendments in New York
and Kansas in 1894, shows how largly men
still fail when called upon to put in practice
the principles they enunciate.
	Though twenty-six States have granted
some slight concessions to women citizens,
in no States of the Union, save Wyoming
and Colorado, are women yet admitted to
the dignity of equal rights in citizenship.
In only six States of the Union are mothers
conceded to b  legal owners of their own
children.
	President of State Suffrage Associations,
from thirty-five States together with many
famous lecturers, will take part in the Con-
vention programmes. Among these ex-
pected are Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, of
Pennsylvania; Lillie Devereaux Blake, of
New York; Carrie Lane Chapman-Catt, of
Iowa; Caroline E. Merrick, of Louisiana;
Alice Stone Blackwell, of Massachusetts;
Josephine K. Henry, Kentucky; Dora
Phelps Buell, of Colorado; Elizabeth U.
Yates, of Maine, and Mary C. Francis, of
Ohio.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRIC. Cor. Sec’y.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of the W. S. A. held January
22nd 1895, in the 14th Ward Hall. Presi-
dent Dr. Ferguson in the chair, Sang
“Hark the myriad voices” Prayer Mary
E. Bassett, Sang, “Come, come away.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
President Dr. Ferguson briefly related about
a meeting she had attended, where she
found many who were not in favor of suf-
frage, thought if all could write in this
cause they would be able to do more efficient
work. There will be very few that will
not work for purity, truth and right.
	Ruth M. Fox asked if we had the right
to discuss the petition referred to in the
minutes. Motion made and carried that
further discussion be allowed.
	J. E. Macfarlane, Ella Hyde, Julia Druce,
Ruth M. Fox, Mary L. Morris were in
favor of the petition being laid over till next
meeting. Mary P. Silver, Adella W.
Eardley, M. E. Irvine, E. M. Price were in
favor of the petitions being circulated.
After much discussion a motion was made
and carried that we do nothing till next
meeting. Reference was then made to the
entertainment to be given on the 15th, Feb.
committees chosen to act for the benefit of
the same, adjourned till Feb. 5th.
					M. E. Irvine, Sec.


MISS ANTHONY AND MRS. CHAPMAN-
CATT are meeting with great audiences and
generous applause on their Southern tour,
which began Jan. 9, at Lexingion, Ky.
At Louisville and Owensboro’ they were
given receptions, which were largly at-
tended.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WELCOME AWAITS THE
N. A. W. S. A. 
	THE Atlanta Constitution says of the
coming convention:
	‘‘The session of the National American
woman suffrage convention here, the last
of this month and the first week in Feb-
ruary, is attracting considerable attention all
over the country.
	It will be a large meeting, and many wo-
men of world-wide fame will be present
from every section. We have nothing to 
say at present about the question of female 
suffrage, but it gives us pleasure to say to
our coming visitors in advance that they
could not have selected a better place in the
Union for their convention. Atlanta now
stands in the front rank of American con-
vention cities. Many national and inter- 
national bodies have met here during the
past few years, and even larger ones would
come here if we had a auditorium or hall
capable of seating at least 10,000 persons.
Our hotel and boarding house accommoda-
tions have heretofore enabled us to make
our largest gatherings comfortable, but, in
view of the crowds that will attend our
exposition, it goes without saying that we
need another large hotel, while the board-
ing houses now here will to have build ex-
tensions. 
	All that we have to do is to provide the
accommodations, and there will be big con-
ventions in session here every month in the
year. It is a popular fad now to visit our
historic city, and the cheap rates given to
the conventions make it easy for them to
reach a point which is readily accessible to
every section.
	But to return to the ladies who are com-
ing here this month. They will be cordially
welcomed, and they will find Atlanta a de-
lightful winter city. They may not find
many advocates of female suffrage among
us, but they will find that our people will
gladly give them a hearing.—Ex.


BREAD MAKING.

	ONE of the most interesting and instruc-
tive lectures delivered by Mrs. Ewing,
during her recent visit to our city, was up-
on the subject of making bread.
	Mrs. Ewing prefers the compressed
yeast, as it not only saves much labor but
has been pronounced by prominent chemists 
superior to brewer’s yeast.
	When preparing for bread, break up the
yeast cake and cover with cold water. Use
a pint of wetting, half of sweet milk and 
half of hot water; the temperature of the
mixture should be about seventy-five de-
grees; add a teaspoonful of salt, and into
this mixture of milk, water and salt stir the
sifted flour; stir with a wooden spoon un-
til the dough is stiff enough to take on the
board and work with the palm of the hand.
When the dough will work without stick-
ing to the board or the hands you may
know you have enough flour and that is
sufficiently worked. Place the dough in a
greased bowl to rise; let it stand in a place
not warmer than seventy-five degrees for
there hours; it is then ready to put in the
pans. Divide the dough into as many parts
as you want loaves and work alternately; it
should stand about one hour after it has
been placed in the pans, but the tempera-
ture of the place where the pans stand
should not be warmer than that where the
dough was first put to rise. Each time it is


set to rise the dough should be brushed over
with a little melted butter to prevent the
formation of a crust. The temperature in
the oven for baking should be from three
hundred and seventy to three hundred and
seventy-five degrees.
	Graham bread is made in the same way as
the white, except that two tablespoonfulls
of sugar should be added.
	Boston brown bread: two cups of white
cornmeal, two cups of graham flour, two
teaspoonfuls of salt, and three of soda, mix
together; add one cup of molasses, three
cups of sour milk; (less soda if the milk is
very sour,) beat to a batter and pour it into
moulds or buckets, leaving space for it to
swell; steam four hours. This bread will
keep for several days, and when wanted it
should be steamed for one hour.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY E. WILKINS is busy at her
home in Randolph, Mass. on a new story.
	A CONSTITUTIONAL amendment extend-
ing full suffrage to women has passed both
branches of the Oregon Legislature.
	MRS. FRANCES KLOCK has introduced a
bill in the Colorado House providing for an
industrial school for girls and appropriating
$15,000 for its establishment and mainten-
ance.
	DR. CARRIE LIEBIG, of Hope, Idaho,
has been appointed division surgeon upon
the Northern Pacific railroad. It is said
that this is the only instance of such dis-
tinction to a lady known in the United
States.
	The Georgia W. S. A. and the Atlanta
E. S. A. will tender a reception to the
delegates and visitors to the National Con-
ention, on Monday evening, Feb. 4.  
	MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD is the third
woman to have the right to write doctor of
laws after her name. Maria Mitchell, the
astronomer, and Amelia B. Edwards, the
Egyptologist, were the others.
	HON. GEORGE FRISBEE HOAR has been
re-elected U. S. Senator for six years by the
Massachusetts Legislature, and Hon. Wm.
P. Frye was the same day re-elected U S.
Senator by the Legislature of Maine.
Suffragists offer their congratulations.—Ex.
	MRS. ELLA B. CARTER lately read be-
fore the Ray Palmer Woman’s Literary
Club of Newark, N. J., an interesting
paper on the Scriptural aspect of the wo-
man question. It is published in full in
the Newark Advertiser of Feb. 6. Mrs.
Carter argues well in behalf of equal rights,
and brings forward a host of illustrations
from the Old and New Testaments.
	The establishment of full woman suff-
rage in South Australia is in some respects
the greatest triumph ever gained for the
cause. It establishes woman’s freedom
over nine hundred and sixteen thousand
square miles of territory—a region larger
than all the United States east of the Mis-
sissippi River. It is a country destined to
become densely populated by the Anglo-
Saxon race, and to dominate the Southern
hemispheres.


IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Woman's Eponent:
	ON the 17th, of Dec. 1894, in Snowflake,
Apache Co. Arizona, there passed from this earth
a noble spirit, Sister Josephine S. Hulet, she was
the beloved daughter of President Jesse N. and
Emma West Smith, and wife of John R. Hulet.
	Although for years in delicate health yet her
smiling, happy countenance caused her friends to
suppose that many more years would be added to
her life. As a child she was gentle and obedient,
and as she grew to years of maturity, these same
loving qualifications increased; her whole life was
one of purity and uprightness, she followed the
promptings of a great nature and worked for the
love of truth; she possessed great charity
especially toward the erring and carried a
heavenly influence with her. It has been said by
those who cared little for a good name and who
were inclined to be rebellious, that she was the
first one who ever created a desire in their hearts
to lofty aspirations.
	At the organization of our Relief Society she
was chosen secretary, also recording secretary, for
several years she filled these positions, but be-
cause of failing health she was excused from
these duties, later on she was chosen as a teacher
in the Relief Society, which office she held at the
time of her death and which she faithfully per-
formed whenever her health would permit.
	She was born in Parowan, Iron Co. Jan. 23, 18 55
She was the mother of five sons, although only
one of her children survive her.
	Her funeral was largly attended, her body was
tenderly carried to the cemetry by loving brothers,
followed on foot by her husband’s father, her son
and her sister’s little son. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies, and many brethren; the proces-
sion reached almost a block then followed the
vehicles, at the grave their ranks were not broken.
After the interment they marched back to the
family residence where the sisters were tenderly
thanked and blessed by her mother, who is the
President of the Relief Society of this stake.
								M. J. W.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro Stable

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1895		No. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Convention And Woman Suffrage. Birthday
Anniversary—Alice M. T. Tanner. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Vilate Young. R. R. Reports.
A Few Thoughts. Resolutions Passed At
The National Council cf Women. Obituaries.
In Memoriam. The Woman’s Bible.

	EDITORIAL:—Notes Woman Suffrage.
Miss Anthony and Party. The National Council.

	POETRY:—In Loving Remembrance—Lydia D.
Alder. A Missionary’s Family.—Annie Kay
Hardy.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE,
of
LITTLE MARGARET.
(Dedicated to my children George and Dean.)

O happy singing little voice
	Forever stilled in earthly home;
The restless, pattering, eager feet
	O’er its portals now have gone,
To never more return again
	Till Christ the Lotd is come.

The thoughtful, lustrous eyes of brown,
	Are closed away from scenes of earth;
The dainty form is laid so low,
	Where ne’er is heard the sound of mirth;
But waits the call of Christ the Lord
	When He shall come to earth.

O, loved ones do not mourn as those
	Who never heard the Gospel sound;
Your precious darling has passed through,
	The “Golden Gates” to Heaven bound;
Where those have gone who love her well—
	And flowers immortal she has found.

Earthly flowers are born to fade,
	To fall to dust and pass away;
But Love will last beyond the grave, 
	More glorious grow and ne’er decay.
For Christ, the Lord, shall come and say,
	“Arise! It is the Resurrection Day.”

Then perfect love our eyes will see,
	Nor fear, nor blight will make us sigh;
For now all griefs have passed away,
	The Saviour wipes each streaming eye;
And low He speaks to every heart,
	“Fear not, for here the loved ones never die.”

O, Land Immortal, where flowers bloom,
	That never fade, by the North wind’s breath;
Where parted loved ones meet again,
	To never more be rent by Death;
Where is thy bounds, where thy rising towers, 
	Where thy babbling brooks, where thy rosy
		bowers?

Be still fond hearts! Ye tears be still!
	The Lord thy God, still cares for thee;
O, wait in patience for the day
	When you shall His salvation see;
The beauteous Land will come in sight,
	And life and love eternal be.

“Good-bye” sweet Margaret, for a little while,
	The flowers you love, now bloom for aye;
Keep some for Mama and Papa too,  
	That you gather through the golden day;
And bring them down to the now dim shore, 
	When they too, pass over ‘The Way.”
							LYDIA D. ALDER.
Feb. 14, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION AND WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	A CALL for a convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association was issued
about the middle of March and telegrams
and letters sent out to notify those living at
a distance from headquarters who would
wish to attend, and on the 18th of March
the Utah Territorial W. S. A. held a con-
vention in the Probate Court room of the
City and County building. Delegates were
present from several counties and the
Territorial President was elected chairman
of the meeting, the vice-presidents were
Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Nellie M. Little, Secretary
and Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Assistant
Secretary, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Chap-
lain. After Mrs. Young had offered prayer
and the call had been read, Mrs. Richards
moved that the president appoint a com-
mittee on Memorial to draft a suitable docu-
ment to present to the Constitutional Con-
vention then in session. The President
Mrs. Wells appointed Mrs. Richards Chair-
man. Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs. G. S.
Carlton, Mrs. J. S. Gilmer, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Amelia F. Young,
Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. C. E. Allen,
Mrs. Emma McVicker, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs J. D. Pardee
Mrs. E. H. Parsons. The committee re-
tired five minutes, and while they were out
speeches were made by county presidents
or their representatives; Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson Salt Lake County, Lucy A. Clark
Farmington who read an original paper on
the subject, displaying a great deal of talent
and clearly setting forth her arguments.
Mrs. Hannah Lapish, American Fork,
Mrs. Jennie Nelson, Ogden, Mrs. M. A.
Grover, Nephi, Mrs. Celia E. Bean, Rich-
field, Mrs. Alvira L. Cox, Manti, repre-
sented counties. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne a
veteran pioneer and mother in Israel spoke
briefly, Mrs. Jane S. Richards of Ogden
an Honorary Vice-President of the National
American W. S. A. also made a few for-
cible remarks, also Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Mrs. Kate Hilliard of Ogden, and Mrs.
Joanna Melton of this city, Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers, Farmington, and Mrs. Ellen S.
Clawson Salt Lake and perhaps one or two
more. The committee returned, the chair-
man read the memorial, which on motion
was adopted and signed and no other
business being presented the convention
adjourned sine die.
	In the afternoon many of the ladies went
into the hall where the Constitutional Con-
vention was in session. Hon. F. S. Rich-
ards a member of the Convention presented
the memorial, it was read by the Secre-
tary and referred to the committee on
Elections and Suffrage.
TO THE HONORABLE PRESIDENT AND MEM-
BERS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL CON-
VENTION OF UTAH:
	WE your petitioners and memoralists,
representing the great majority of the wo-
men of Utah, and more particularly as the

[Column 2]
official representatives of the great women
organizations of Utah, numbering in ag-
gregate membership over 35,000, viz.
	The Utah Suffrage Association auxiliary to
the National American Woman’s Suffrage
Association, the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association; these
thousands of women standing in a general
way, or in virtue of direct official relation-
ship, as our constituents, we, your mem-
orialists speak in their names and in be-
half of the women of Utah herewith pre-
sent the woman’s cause.
	It is a matter of congratulation that in
these closing years of the nineteenth cen-
tury the cause of woman can, without the
stigma of partisanship, be laid before a
body of chosen men ordained to the work
of creating a new sovereignty within the
galaxy of states as an equal member of the
indissoluble Union. The men of Utah, in
their respective political parties, have with
equal unanimity, said that women shall be
accorded equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, that sex distinction shall no
longer be a ban and a bar to equal oppor-
tunity with men to exercise the God-given
powers and capabilities with which women
are endowed for purposes of equal self-
government and equal enjoyment of the
inalienable rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness. We take it that the
men of Utah have spoken honestly,
sincerely and conscientiously as true men to
that equally large number of citizens who
are now disfranchised, who are now de-
prived of authority to speak a word or cast
a vote in the framing of an organic law
which determines their personal and prop-
erty rights, their civil and political status
in the social organism.
	We are glad to feel assured that our
brothers are dealing honestly and
righteously with us, and that they will or-
dain truth and justice in the name of God
and humanity. And we are happy, too, in
the belief that these overtures made by the
men of Utah are in line with the onward
march of civilization, that the bow of
promise is rising higher and brighter in the
heaven of human hope, that with the ele-
vation and emancipation of women "the
plans of God are ripening with the process
of the suns." And we say to you that we
contemplate no rival sovereignty, no sphere
peculiar and apart, no conflicting regime or
antagonistic legislation, no hostile policy or
divided counsels. No, the woman move-
ment means only true human progress. It
means higher and truer harmony, more
genuine and enlightened fellowship, more
real co-operation. more vital and perpetual
union. The key and clue to all true pro-
gress is the larger harmony that the Infinite
Spirit is breathing into the rising grandeur
of human development.
	As Constitution makers, as framers of
the chart that shall guide us in what we
hope to be a long and prosperous future,
you will cherish in your deliberations a
sacred regard for the principles of liberty,
for those undying axioms that have been
laid at the foundations of our Temple of


[Column 1]
Freedom. We have thousands of women
in Utah who are property holders and tax-
payers in their own right. Probably no
other state furnishes as large a roll of tax-
paying women. “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.” This was the key-
note, the bugle call of the revolutionary
fathers in their struggle for liberty. Says
James Otis, in 1764, in one of the pamph-
lets that made our independence, “The
very act of taxing, exercised over those
who are not represented, appears to me to
be depriving them of one of their most es-
sential rights. For what one civil right is
worth a rush after a man’s property is 
subject to be taken from him at pleasure,
without his consent. If a man is not his
own assessor, in person or by deputy, his 
liberty is gone.” Hon. Charles Sumner,
in his speech on March 7, 1866, endorses
these declarations of James Otis, and he
says “Stronger words for universal suffrage
could not be employed.” His argument
is that if men are taxed without being rep-
resented, they are deprived of essential
rights.
	These axioms are as clear as sunlight,
and it would be in violation of the funda-
mental principles of our institutions for the
men of Utah to frame laws whereby wo-
men property holders shall be taxed with-
out their consent given through such
representation as is accorded to men as a 
condition precedent to their being taxed.
	Again, all our constitutions, either in
terms or in substance, commence their
preamble with that comprehensive formula,
“We, the people.” Our government is
“of the people, for the people and by the
people.” Whatever the status of women
may be, they are at least a part of the
people. As such the government provides
a place for them, and by no form or prin-
ciple of reasoning can they be deprived of
such rights and privileges as inure to men
under government, without at the same time
destroying the natural rights which men
hold for themselves to be inviolate.
	Furthermore, by the Declaration of In-
dependence, the existence of government
hinges upon “the consent of the governed.”
This consent is to be given through the 
forms and provisions whereby govern-
ments are made and administered. This
consent goes to the framing of the constitu-
tion, to the enactment of laws under that
constitution and to the administration of
those laws; and there can be no consent
without representation. Hence the dis-
franchisement of half the people and a 
large proportion of taxpayers and creators
of wealth is tyranny pure and simple, even
though it be under the shadow and in the 
name of liberty and free government.
	But we seek not to weary you with the
recital of axioms. What we desire is that
we may uphold your hands in revealing
them to the world and making them effec-
tive in human government. Jefferson laid 
a deep foundation for human freedom in
planting equal rights at the roots of the tree
of liberty; but it was given to Lincoln to
make those principles most effective, and to
cause them to shine as the noonday sun in
the firmament of American history.
	He said: “I believe the day is not far
distant when women will wield the ballot
to purify and ennoble polotics. I go for
all sharing in the government who assist in
bearing its burdens, by no means excluding
the females.”
	To you, gentlemen of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, it is given to make other

[Column 2]
deep and fundamental principles of our
government effective in the administrations
of law. We do not doubt your ability and 
willingness to do so. But we come to greet
you in behalf of the women of Utah, to 
strengthen your hand and to assure you
that we are keenly alive to the importance
and far reaching consequences of your labor
in our behalf.
	“And above all we would impress you
with the fact that the women of Utah are
by no means indifferent spectators of the
drama that is now being enacted. We be-
lieve that every age has its rising and its
setting sun. We believe that the woman
movement has come because the sun of our
civilization has thrown across our social 
horizon the dawning of a new and more
glorious era in the history of man. We
believe that “through the ages an eternal
purpose runs,” and that in the full enfran-
chisement of women there will come a 
larger and truer sovereignty, a national con-
scientiousness in fuller harmony with the 
temporal welfare and happiness of man.
We believe that both men and women will
be benefitted morally, socially and econom-
ically. We believe that now the time clock
of American destiny has struck the hour to
inaugurate a larger and truer civil life, and
that the future writers of Utah history will
immortalize the names of those men who,
in this Constitutional Convention, defying
the injustice and prejudice of the past,
strike off the bonds that have heretofore
enthralled woman, and open the doors that
will usher her into free and full emancipa-
tion.
	“We therefore ask you to provide in the
Constitution that the rights of citizens of
the State of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex, and that male and female citizens
of the State shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.”
	The memorial was signed by the follow-
ing ladies: Emmeline B. Wells, president
of the Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah; Emily S. Richards, vice president;
Zina D. H. Young, president of the 
National Woman’s Relief Society; Jane S.
Richards, vice president; Ellen B. Fergu-
son, Salt Lake County Suffrage Association;
Electa Bullock, Utah County Lucy 
A. Clark Davis and Jennie Nelson, Weber
County; Celia E. Bean, Sevier County
Alvira L. Cox, Sanpete Co., M. A. Grover,
Juab County; and many others.
	At ten o’clook the morning of the 19th,
a hearing was given to the ladies’ who had
been invited to speak before the Committee
who had the memorial in charge. Hon. J.
F. Chidester Chairman of the Committee,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball introduced the
speakers with a few preliminary remarks.
Mrs. F. S. Richards read a carefully pre-
pared and logical paper, Mrs. Carlton now
of Wyoming formerly of Utah told in a 
very interesting manner of the practical 
work of the franchise in that state, Dr. M.
Hughes Cannon read an able paper, every
word of which was telling, the subject being
whether women would be more susceptible
to priestcraft than men. Mrs. Joanna
Melton spoke very forcibly illustrating her
remarks in a very original way. Mrs. A.
S. Pardee followed with some bright
thoughts in expressive language and read
a few paragraphs from the Arena for Febru-
ary clinching her arguments in good
style. Dr. R. B. Pratt read a paper giving
her view and embellishing beautifully the

[Column 3]
facts she presented. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
last on the list and spoke to the question
without notes, or references. A few minutes
being left Mrs. Zina D. H. Young was in-
vited and made a few remarks upon wo-
man’s place in the world, and Mrs. Jane S.
Richards of Ogden being urged to speak
came forward with a few pertinent words,
this closed the hearing before the Com-
mittee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	MONDAY, Feb. 25th, 1895, Counselor
Jane Bickley invited President R. W. Tyler
to accompany her for a drive which she did.
At 2 p. m. they entered the Society Hall
where to her great surprise the family of
Sister Tyler and a large number of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society with their hus-
bands were awaiting her arrival, the event
being the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of her
birth. After the house was called to order
Counselor M. A. White made a few ap-
propriate remarks telling the object of the
meeting which was to show the esteem the
Society entertained towards their worthy
President. The meeting then opened with
singing and prayer, after which an excellent
programme consisting of speeches, songs,
recitations etc. was carried out. President
Tyler thanked those present for this mark
of their esteem and gave a brief synopsis of
her life since joining the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1832;
she first identified herself with the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Hancock Co. 111. in
1842.
	While the pic-nic, which had been pro-
vided by those present was being prepared
for passing, Sister Tyler went around shak-
ing hands with all the large assembly who
had met to honor her. After all had par-
taken to their satisfaction of the bounteous
repast the afternoon’s proceeding closed
as they had opened, with singing and
prayer.
	Before closing Prof. Bickley read and pre-
sented the following to Sister Tyler. 
						Alice M. T. Tanner.

			ACROSTIC. 
[Written on the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the
birth of Rnth W. Tyler.)
		Round another year has rolled,
		Unto us its tale has told,
		Tears, and laughter, joy, and pain,
		Have been number’d in its train.

		While its changes we recall,
		Each leal heart has thanks for all, 
		Leaning on our God, and Friend,
		’Tis His love all blessings send. 
		Once again we honors pay, 
		No regrets, this happy day. 

		To our friend we wish much joy, 
		Year by year, as they go by,
		Long may pleasure wreathe her brow, 
		Every happiness below, 
		Rest at last in Heaven.
	Respectfully, Your Brother, 
						W. G. BICKLEY
Beaver City Utah. Feb, 25th, 1895.


“THE California Senate, on March 14,
voted in favor of a constitutional amend-
ment extending full suffrage to women.
The amendment had already been adopted
by the Assembly. Three cheers for Cali-
fornia.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MISSIONARY’S FAMILY.

THREE little ones at bed-time came
	Around their mother’s knee,
Murmuring baby prayers to God
	Whom they believed, but could not see.

The first, a boy, would close his eyes,
	He was only eight years old,
To thank for life, and daily bread,
	And then his dearest wish unfold.

Bless father, O my God, and bring
	Him safely home, I pray,
Amen.” No doubt the little ones request
	Would help the wanderer day by day. 

Little sister, six years old,
	In turn bowed down her head,
And echoing Willard’s closing words
	Sat waiting by the bed.

Baby Mill, whose tiny lips
	Could frame no words we knew, 
Next hid her face in mother’s lap,
	Saying, “gig, and gog, agoo.”

I see it all, the humble room,
	The grease lights flickering glare;
The scanty fire, an empty bin;
	But, of love, a good full share!

The letters from across the sea,
	O, how we’d dance, and run!
We knew so well they would begin
	With “42, Islington.”

At last the joyful news we heard,
	Our father’s mission done!
The four, long years were ended,
	And he was coming home. 

My heart is full, as memory keen 
	Points to a time most dread;—
A messenger one night-fall came
	To say, “your father is dead!”

In a lonely grave they’d left him
	On Colorado’s plain,
And the little prayers at eventide
	Ne’er mentioned him again.

But she who wakened early faith
	Ceased not good words to tell,
And, quenching grief, she gently taught,
	“He doeth all things well.”
				ANNIE KAY HARDY.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 9th, 1895. Counselor E. Stevenson
presiding. Sang, “Come O Glorious Zion.”
Prayer Sister Rachel Brown. Sang, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved; also Fifteenth
Ward Primary.
	Counselor Stevenson was well pleased
with the good attendance, hoped we would
be well repaid for coming out. We have
everything to be thankful for  If ever
there was a time we should live near the
Lord it is the present. Satan is not asleep.
He knows his time is short. I hope it
may be. We should have watchful care
over our children. If Satan can’t lead us
he will attack them. Snares will be laid
for them everywhere. A short time ago I
heard one of our boys using the most pro-
fane language. It makes me weep when I
think of these things among the Saints.
What is to be done with our children? We
are told they cannot be lost, neither can they
be saved in their sins. They must repent
and become worthy of salvation. I am re-
minded of a circumstance where a young
girl married out of the Church. She said

[Column 2]
its all right my father can save me. For
my part I want nothing but what I earn,
and am deserving of. It would be very
unjust could we be saved through our
parents without being worthy. We can’t
go to Heaven on a flowery bed of roses.
As parents we have a great work to per-
form. We should live lives worthy of im-
itation, never be rude or boisterous, or
call our children unbecoming names, above
all never let them hear us quarrel. Its not
becoming Saints of God. I would like to
hear our young people covenant never
never to let their children hear them utter
an unkind word. If quarrels must come
don’t let it be in the presence of children.
None can pass through their life without
bitter experiences. As Saints would we
take money for our experience? I would
not. We must be faithful. Always bear-
ing in mind the race is not to the swift;
but to those who endure to the end.
Sisters I now leave the meeting in your
hands. Make good use of the time. May
the Lord bless us with a rich outpouring of
his holy spirit.
	Sister Snow, I have been in the Church
fifty three years. Have passed through
much. Have had many manifestations in
dreams and visions; and I know this is the
work of God, etc.
	Sister Rawliston said, “I know this is the
Kingdom of God. Also that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God. There is nothing
outside of this Church for me. I have
passed through severe trials. But my
heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly 
Father for all his goodness to me in per-
mitting me to receive this Gospel. Have
had many testimonies, have been healed of
blindness, through the power of God. I am
passing through a great trial, on account of
my boy falling away from the Gospel. I
ask my sisters to assist me by their faith and
prayers, to bring my boy back into the
church again,” etc.
	Sister Rachel Brown “I know this is the
true Gospel of Christ. I am grateful for
the testimony. We must make our own
record. What comfort there is in the
knowledge we possess in being called to
part with loved ones. We can reconcile our
selves. We know they are safe. That
God is just, and doeth all things for our
good. That if we are faithful, we will
surely meet our dear ones again.”
	“What joy will be there,” was then
sang.
	A sister spoke of the goodness of God
to her. "I love to meet with my sisters, I
have come here with a broken heart, and
have had it healed by the words of comfort
spoken. We should cultivate charity,
when our feelings are hurt, by our
associates; how noble it would be could we
say in our hearts, “Father forgive them.”
And pray to the Lord for patience and
strength to bear our trials, when we
realize our weakness. We should strive to
live meek and lowly. May the blessings of
Heaven rest upon all, etc.
	Sister Howe, ’my beloved sisters I know
the spirit of the Lord is here. The words
of Malachi are, They that feared the Lord
spake often together. We should leave
care at home, and come here with hearts
centered on the things of God. At one
time I felt that I never could be reconciled
to losing my children. But there are tempta-
tions every where. We know not how our
children will turn. When I was young
doctrine was taught to terrorize. The young

[Column 3]
children of the Saints know nothing of this.
Satan has not power to tempt children under
eight years of age. Parents should teach
them why they should be baptized. The
best of parents have children go astray.
Adam sinned that men might be. Don’t
be discouraged though our children should
go astray. Teach them correct principles
in their childhood, and sooner or later they
will return. Take comfort from dreams.
Where they give comfort it is from God,
made other remarks.
	Sister Julia Pack thought we had the
most reason to be thankful of any people on
the earth. Inasmuch as we strive to do
right the Lord will help us. We can’t be
too careful, about judging our fellow beings.
We know not the motives that prompt them.
My desire is to continue faithful, etc. A
sister said I don’t know how I could live
without going to meeting. If we don’t
serve the Lord he knows it. How can we
expect to have our prayers, answered or re-
ceive the blessings we desire. If we give
our time to the Lord he will give us every
blessing, etc.
	Sister Midgely said this is the first time
I have had courage to stand up and testify
of the goodness of God to me.
	I should feel condemned did I not speak a
few words to day. My desire is to do right
at all times. As wives and mothers we can
accomplish much. If we are faithful to
our prayers the Lord will point out to us
our duties. We often have to give com-
fort to our husbands when we feel we need
to be comforted ourselves. In order to
gain blessings we must pass through trials,
etc.
	Testimonies were borne by other sisters
All felt thankful for blessings received.
Felt desirous of doing all the good possible.
	Counselor Stevenson made closing re-
marks exhorting the sisters to be faithful to
every duty. To be united in all things per-
taining to the Kingdom of God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
Doxology. Benediction Vilate Young.
				VILATE YOUNG, Sec.


“UNDER the guise of a law relating to the
registration of births, marriages and deaths,
the following measure is proposed for 
enactment by the Legislature of Mas-
sachusetts:
	Section 3. Physicians and midwives
shall, on or before the fifth day of each
mouth, report to the clerk of each city or
town a correct list of all children born there-
in during the month next preceding, at
whose birth they were present, stating the
date and place of each birth, the name of
the child, if it has any, the sex and color
of the child, the name, place of birth and
residence of the parents, the maiden name
of the mother, and the occupation of the
father. If the child is illegitimate, the name
of the father shall not be stated, unless at
the joint request in writing of both father
and mother.
	“It is the practice of the police, when they
raid houses of ill-repute, to report only the
names of the women found on the premises.
This clause should be amended to read:
“Unless paternity has been acknowledged
or legally proved.” To provide by law 
that the father of an illegitimate child shall 
be shielded from responsibility unless he 
requests otherwise, is going a long step 
further. Such a bill would have small
chance of passing if women were voters.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1895.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE terrible accident at Almy, Wyom-
ing, which made so many widows and or-
phans momentarily, has been pathetically
portrayed in verse, and sent to the Expon-
ent but we were obliged to lay it over un-
til next issue.
	THE editor of this paper begs leave to
state that owing to uncontrollable circum-
stances, no paper was issued in March, and
trusting to the generosity of the sisters to
overlook this once, especially as it is the
question of finance, and we hope it may
never occur again, and certainly will not if
the sisters whose names are on the list of
subscribers will sustain the paper by their
subscriptions.


[Column 1]	
WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	THERE has been much discussion pro and
con in the Constitutional Convention on the
equal suffrage plank in the Constitution for
Utah. Many important matters have been
brought to the attention of the people that
would otherwise have been overlooked, had
there not been some opposition. It is al-
ways best to hear both sides and certainly
those who listened to the open and fair dis-
cussion of this question in Committee of
the whole, must have been edified and in-
structed
	The majority report of the Committee on
Elections and Suffrage had been made be-
fore this discussion of the question begun;
this report was in every sense of the word
most satisfactory to those deeply concerned.
It reads as follows:
	“Resolved—That the rights of citizens of
the state of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied, or abridged on account
of sex. Both male and female citizens of
this state shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.’’
	The minority desired to make a report
and time was given them to prepare it, and
it was submitted later, and really one can-
not speak very highly of such a weak and
flimsy document; women are too good to
vote and similar language, and inferring
their generosity and religious convictions
might make it dangerous &c.
	We are very sorry we have not space to
give the report in full, as it shows how
trifling are the objections offered
	It is pitiful to see how men opposed to
woman suffrage try to make the women be-
lieve it is because they worship them so, and
think them far too good, and one would

[Column 2] 
really think to hear those eloquent orator
talk, that laws were all framed purposely to
protect women in their rights, and men
stood ready to defend them with their lives.
But all this specious reasoning does not
change the stubborn facts that still remain,
and of which some women at least are well-
informed.
	There are men and a large number who
are generous, chivalrous, brave, and yet
tender and true, if there were not, the
world would be in a worse condition than it
is at present. It is to help good men do
better work that women wish for the fran-
chise. The great world of humanity
needs helpers, the broadest, truest and best
principles are those great general ones that
reach out to all mankind.
	The writer cannot doubt the good faith
of the members of the Convention in car-
rying out the wishes of the people as ex-
pressed in both platforms, and though the
vote has not been taken, it is sure to be in
the affirmative. The women of Utah have
never failed in any time of trial of what-
ever name or nature, and their integrity is
unquestioned. To the honorable gentle-
man who have spoken so ably and eloquently
on the affirmative, the thanks and gratitude
of all womankind should be tendered,
whether all women believe in voting or not;
to the other side we can only say they have
been bold and must answer to their own
consciences; they are no doubt honest in
their convictions and let us hope the
practical experience that will come
with the ballot may convince even them
that good may follow and they and their
children receive the benefit of what they
could not discern in the future progress of
the world.


MISS ANTHONY AND PARTY.

	ON the 12th, of May, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, President of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association will
arrive here enroute for California and will
remain for two or three days and hold a
Woman Suffrage Conference of the
National American Association in this city;
the exact dates and place of meeting will
be given later, and the conference will be
advertised, as it is expected it will be
numerously attended from different parts of
the Territory. Miss Anthony will be ac-
companied by the Rev. Anna Shaw one of
the most brilliant speakers in America, also
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick of Boston cele-
brated for her logic and eloquence on the
platform, Miss Estelle Reel and Mrs. Mary
C. Bradford of Colorado, and Mrs. Jenkins
of Wyoming who are all fine speakers and
the three last named ladies also have the
privilege of voting as well as talking. Of
Miss Anthony’s name and fame we have
all heard, her name is so associated with
the cause of woman’s enfranchisement as
to make it dear to every true lover of
liberty and freedom.
	Utah will be proud to welcome Miss An-
thony and her party to its hospitality, of
that the writer entertains no doubt. One
who has stood up so heroically in advocat-
ing unpopular doctrines as Miss Anthony
has at a time when few men had the moral
courage to face the opposition to the Anti-
slavery question, must possess in a very
marked degree the qualities which help to
move the world. She is a great General,
and her zeal and earnestness in the battle
for equal suffrage has won the esteem and

[Column 2]
respect even of those who are opposed t
the question. The legal rights women
enjoy today in many of the states over and
above those of long ago are in a great
measure due to the effective and persistent
labors of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia
Mott, Lucy Stone and others of imperish-
able memory and Susan B. Anthony who
has for nearly half a century now faithfully
labored for the women of this nation, that
they might have all the privileges of free-
dom and justice.
	That she is realizing some reward for her
diligence through the full enfranchisement
of women in Wyoming and Colorado as
well as partial suffrage in many other states
must be very satisfactory to her, and we
trust ere her promised visit, Utah will have
incorporated in the body of her Constitu-
tion equal suffrage for all citizens irrespec-
tive of Sex.
	It is ardently hoped that the women in
all parts of the Territory will make it a
point to come and hear these famous wo-
men. It will be remembered Mrs. Stanton
and Miss Anthony visited Utah in 1870 at
which time two meetings were held. Many
of those who were prominent in public
matters then, both men and women have
passed away, but the spirit of liberty and
justice and of equal rights that permeated
the Territory then, exists today and is more
strongly emphasized by growth of suffrage
sentiment throughout the world,and by the
signs of the times which are significant of
the dawn of far-greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton visited
Utah in 1870, and had very enthusiastic
meetings, but they could not compare with
what we shall have in May next. The
signs of the times are all indicative of the
growth of suffrage sentiment and point
significantly to greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
We need Miss Anthony now more than ever,
we are in a state of transition as it were
and such power and eloquence, such wit
and wisdom as she possesses in great abund-
ance will help Utah women to more strongly
emphasize the platform of equal rights, and
to appreciate the new conditions which will
come to them with increased responsibility
under the fuller liberty conferred by the
franchise in the new state.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	THE Triennial Session of the National
Council of women held in Washington
from February 17th to March 2nd in-
clusive, was an unprecedented success
from first to last. This magnificent gather-
ing will leave its impress upon the age for
all time. The dignity of its officers, the
executive ability manifest in conducting
the business and entire proceedings, has
without doubt never been surpassed by
women. Every visitor conceded that the
President Mrs. May Wright Sewall carried
off the honors most graciously, and with-
out hesitation or embarassment whatever
the emergency. Under any and all circum-
stances she was equal to the occasion.
Whatever doubts one may have had in re-
gard to women presiding, or preserving
order in large assemblies must all be dis-
pelled in witnessing the justice and perfect
equanimity observed by Mrs. Sewall from
the first day of the Council to the last.
	To single out one particular day as the
best, or a speech surpassing all others in


[Column 1]
eloquence, or originality, or depth of
thought, or breadth of sentiment, would
be entirely beyond the writer’s scope.
Where there is so much to admire, and to
try and comprehend, so much that is lofty
and brilliant, wise and tender, one cannot
discriminate by mentioning specially un-
less obliged to do so as a critic.
	The opening address by the President
was full of suggestive ideas, and was most
ably delivered. It contained several re-
markable paragraphs which taken separ-
ately would be complete in themselves
which showed strength and conciseness in
thought and expression.
	Mrs. Sewall quoted in the opening part
of her address these fitting words of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s used in the open-
ing of the International Council in 1888,
and also repeated by Miss Frances Willard
at the first session of the National Council
in 1891. “A difference of opinion on one
question must not prevent us from working
unitedly in those on which we agree.”
Mrs. Sewall further says, ‘‘To work to-
gether with those with whom one does not
agree has been thought to be impossible to
women, and indeed even during the era of
organization the central motive of organ-
izations has been to bring together those
who do agree.”
	The National Council has already proven
that women who differ very materially on
many vital matters may harmonize and
fraternize in such a way as to do good and
effective general work along the lines of
progress, upon which all women who work
for humanity must be able to stand firm
and steadfast for the overthrow of ignor-
ance and injustice. 
	The most celebrated women of the
Council whose names are known, far and
wide, after mentioning the President were
Susan B. Anthony, Frances E. Willard, 
Rachel Foster Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw,
Lady Isabel Somerset, and the Countess of
Aberdeen; following these one might give
a long list of names of distinguished women
who make this grand Council famous by
the brightness of their past records in the
various lines of work,of reform, education,
philonthopy, literature, art and science.
Were we to enumerate them it would
mean column after column of names only,
but their beautiful faces, their glowing
countenances beaming with superior in-
telligence, made a setting fair to look upon
in that assembly, never to be erased from
the minds of those, who day after day
gazed upon the living picture, and studied
its merits from the stand-point of its in-
tense value to the world of mankind.
	Taken as a whole the Council has left its
impress upon the age, and the power and
force of such magnificent efforts and suc-
cesses will be felt for good upon the peo-
ple of the world in this and other lands.
The good word will be repeated and
echoed and reverberated until it shall reach
foreign shores and the islands of the sea;
the gospel of better things, the hour of
promise of the good time coming will begin
to illuminate dark and benighted nations
 through such vast concourses of enlighten-
ed peoples as the Council is bringing to-
gether.
	Women have made rapid advancement 
during the last few years, especially has it
been noticable since the International Coun-
cil of 1888, and when in 1898 the National
Council of women of the United States
meet and transact business as an Upper and
Lower House, perhaps public sentiment

[Column 2]
even among men will begin to set in to-
wards equal suffrage and equal privileges
regardless of the condition of sex.
	Among this grand body of women who
met day after day in Metzerott’s music
hall in Washington there were seven from
Utah who took part in the proceedings,and
and it is only fitting and proper to say they
acquitted themselves creditably, and were
everywhere well-received and accorded
every privilege that could have been ex-
pected. The Utah women represented
two of the great organizations which com-
pose the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
and the President of each of these great
Associations is vice-president of the National
Council of the women of the United States,
and has a voice in all measures, and in all
questions that come before that august
body of women. The women who are
members of these organizations should try
to become acquainted with the objects, aims
and purposes of this great consolidation of
Womens National Societies and they would
more fully appreciate the reasons why rep-
resentation therein is so desirable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The Annual District Relief Society Con-
ference on the East side of Bear River was
held at Montpelier Feb. 24th, 1895, Stake
President Julia P. Lindsey presiding.
Meeting opened by the choir, singing the
hymn, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by David Osborn. Singing, “Now let us
rejoice in the Day of Salvation.”
	President Lindsey, made a few remarks,
stating the purpose for which we had met
together, after which the various wards
were favorably represented by their respec-
tive presidents whose names are as follows.
	President Hagansen of Montpelier. Presi-
dent Vanormam of Bennington. President
Fretwell of Georgetown. President
Dalymple, of Preston; President Dalton
of Thomas Fork. President Sparks of
Dingle, as there was no one present from
Soda Springs, that ward was not reported.
	President Lindsey was pleased with the
reports given also thankful for the good
condition of the Relief Society on this side
of the river as this shows the sisters are
improving. Said we have a great labor to
perform, as daughters of Zion, and there is
great blessings in store for us if we are
faithful, we should remember the teachings
of our Savior and try to follow his worthy
example and be kind and charitable to-
wards all, not allowing ourselves to indulge
in selfishness, for our Heavenly Father is
not pleased with us when this is the case,
we should be thankful for the trials we are
called to pass through, for they are calcu-
lated to strengthen and purify us, and to
prepare us for a higher sphere. President
Lindsey gave much good and timely in-
structions, especially in regard to the stor-
ing of grain, she bore a faithful testimony
to the truthfulness of this great Latter-day
work, and closed her remarks by encourag-
ing us to make good use of the time and
talents which God has given us that we
may be able to give a good account of our
stewardship.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “Come listen to a Prophet’s voice.”
Benediction by Charles Bridges.
M. A. PERKINS, Sec.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “All hail the Glorious Day.”
Prayer was offered by Elder James E.
Hart. Singing, “Come listen to a
Prophet’s voice.” The sacrament of the
Lord’s supper was administered during
which the choir sang a sacramental
hymn.
	Counselor Elizabeth Colling was the first
speaker. She exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and showed them that they
have a work to perform as well as the
brethren, she urged the sisters to seek for a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel, she
bore a faithful testimony and urged mothers
to make home pleasant for their children
and gain their confidence and respect.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, spoke of the trials
and perplexities with which we are sur-
rounded but they are placed upon us, that
we might prove ourselves worthy of an
exaltation in the kingdom of God, she
urged the sisters to study the principles of
the gospel, and live up to them, she bore
her testimony to the truth of the gospel and
urged the sisters to so live that they might
have the Spirit of God to guide them
through the trials of life, said the spirit of
God had illuminated the darkest hours of
her life.
	Sister Mary Bagley, said trials come up-
on this people through neglect of duty.
Urged the sisters to be faithful in perform-
ing their duties, said there is over 4,000
branches of the Relief Society and over 27,-
000 members; when one neglects her duty it
does not retard the progress of her society
but only the one who fails to perform her
duty, she spoke of the pleasure there is in
doing good to others, we should be chari-
table to the poor and needy.
	Elder Hart bore testimony to the truth-
fulness of the remarks of the sisters, he
spoke on the subject of charity, and showed
the way blessings are derived from being
charitable to those less favored than some
of us.
	John A. Bagley spoke of the humility of
the Savior, said his labors were among the
meek and lowly, said the sisters are per-
forming a similar work that our Savior
performed, he spoke of the evil that is
coming upon the earth through immorality
urged mothers to see that their sons and
daughters lead moral and virtuous lives.
	President Lindsey spoke a short time on
the subject of women’s suffrage, said she
was an advocate of women, having equal
rights with men. She spoke of continuing
to celebrate the seventeenth of March the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Confer-
ence was adjourned for one year by singing
“Love at home.” Benediction by John
Bagley.
JANE OSBORN, Asst. Sec.

MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ELEVENTH MEETING OF THE NAUVOO
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	PPESIDENT JOSEPH SMITH opened the
meeting by prayer; and proceeded to ad-
dress the congregation. Said Christ came
to call sinners to repentance and save them.
Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his
society. He took them upon the principle
that they repented of their sins. It is the
object of this society to reform persons not
to take those that are corrupt, but if they
repent we are bound to take them, and by
kindness sanctify and cleanse from all un-
righteousness by our influence in watching


over them—nothing will have such in-
fluence over people as the fear of being dis-
fellowshipped by so goodly a society as this.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead
people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand and watch over them in tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least
kindness and love towards me, O what pow-
er it has over my mind while the opposite
course has a tendency to harrow up all the
harsh feelings and oppress the human
mind. It is one evidence that men are
unacquainted with the principle of Godli-
ness to behold the contraction of feeling
and lack of charity—the power and glory
of Godliness is spread out in a broad
principle to throw out the mantle of charity.
God does not look on sin with allowance,
but when men have sinned there must be
allowance made for them, the religious world
is boasting of righteousness—it is the doc-
trine of the devil to retard the human mind
and retard our progress by filling us with
self-righteousness. The nearer we get to
our Hreavenly Father the more are we dis-
posed to look with compassion on perishing
souls—to take them upon our shoulders and
cast their sins behind our back. I am go-
ing to talk to all this society— If you would
have God have mercy on you, have mercy
on one another. President Smith then re-
ferred them to the conduct of the Savior
when He was taken and crucified. He
then made a promise in the name of the
Lord saying, that soul that has righteous-
ness enough to ask God in secret places for
life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three-score years and ten.
	We must walk uprightly all day long.
How glorious are the principles of righteous-
ness. We are full of selfishness—the devil
flatters us that we are very righteous, while
we are feeding on the faults of others. We
can only live by worshipping our God. All
must do it for themselves. None can do it
for another. How mild the Savior dealt
with Peter, saying, “When thou art con-
verted strengthen thy brethren,”—at
another time He said to him, “Lovest thou
me?” “Feed my sheep.” If the sisters
love the Lord let them feed the sheep and
not destroy them. How oft have wise men
and women sought to dictate Brother
Joseph by saying? “O, If I were Brother
Joseph I would do this or that,” but if
they were in Brother Joseph’s shoes, they
would find that men could not be compelled
in the kingdom of God, but must be dealt
with long-suffering—and at last we shall
save them. The way to keep all the saints
together and keep the work rolling, is to
wait with all long-suffering till God shall
bring such characters to justice. There
should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
Sisters of this society shall there be strife
among you? I will not have it—you must
repent and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure
or principle to bring the poor to repentance
is to administer to their wants—the society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save
souls. President Smith then said that he
would give a lot of land to the society by
deeding it to the treasurer, that the society
may build houses for the poor. He also
said he would give a house frame not
finished, said that Brother Cahoon will
move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the
society can pay him by giving orders on
the store, that it was a good plan to set
those to work who are owing widows, and
thus make an effort &.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

	IT is a self-evident fact a foregone con-
clusion that woman suffrage is in the air,
and the matter is so apparent that it needs
no argument to prove it; the trend of senti-
ment and of public opinion, is in that direc-
tion—humanity’s interests demand it, wo-
men see the opportunity to help in great
enterprises, in government and in many
ways, but are at a decided disadvantage
while they are deprived of the privileges of
citizenship—nothing but the ballot will
supply the needed qualification to protect
their individual and material interests, and
secure them equal rights with men.
	Justice demands it and woman in pos-
session of full political privileges will be
able to help good men to cope with the
needs and emergencies of the present time,
and to promote a greater degree of purity
and justice in law, and in the government.
The United States poses as a self-governed
nation when as a matter of fact one half of
its citizens have no voice in making or in
executing the laws by which they and
their children, and their property are con-
trolled.
	Women are as loyal to their country as
men and they want liberty on the simple
ground of abstract justice, and for self-pro-
tection: they are entitled to the same means
to make life a success as men. The wo-
men of Utah have every reason to ask that
the new state Constitution shall make them
politically equal with men; they have
borne well their part in the founding of
this territory, no man or woman denies the
fact—it is self-apparent. What have not
the pioneer women throughout the extent of
these vales endured to subdue the desert,
and make the roses blossom—the homes of
the people testify to this fact; and when the
Legislature of 1870, realizing how true and
strong for the right these women had been
passed the BILL granting suffrage to wo-
men, how gladly and proudly women came
forward to bear their share of the
responsibility; and after seventeen years
wise and judicious exercise of the franchise
it was taken from them without excuse or
apology, how grandly they submitted to
the laws which deprived them of a vested
right, because it was the country they loved
that had wrested from them this precious
boon, believing in the ultimate triumph of
right over wrong, and that when it should
be in the power of the men of Utah to re-
store to them this lost citizenship, they
would not hesitate to re-invest them with
the responsibilities so nobly used in the
past.
	As an individual and as a woman of
sane mind the writer asks for the ballot be-
cause of her love of freedom and liberty,
and because she believes she can do more
good for humanity, than while deprived of
the franchise.
	Speaking personally the writer has the
utmost faith in the justice and in the honor
of the men who have been elected to the
Constitutional Convention, men some of
them born in these mountain fastnesses,
where the very air is redolent of liberty,
reared under the direct influence of patriot-
ism, taught from babyhood, to love free-
dom and to maintain it as their birthright,
they cannot refuse their mothers, wives,
sisters, and sweethearts that blessed privi-
lege so dear to them.
	Common sense teaches woman that she
stands or falls for herself, give her then
every privilege man enjoys that she may
have self-protection, every safe-guard pos
sible to a rational human being, she has as
much interest in all that concerns home and
state and country as man has, and should
have the same opportunity to express her
opinions at the ballot box. All sensible
women who comprehend the situation want
a voice in the government under which
they live, and if it were not their right, the
needs of the present time require their help.
It is useless to add what the conditions are,
but woman’s moral and spiritual force
might give a higher tone to politics and
raise the standard of social purity of which
we hear there is such great need all over
our fair land.
	Men will not lose their respect for wo-
men because they vote, witness the
years in Utah when women voted almost
without an exception, weren’t there as
many marriages, and certainly there were
not so many divorces as there have been
since. No complaint was ever heard of
domestic broils because women went to the
polls, one or two men (unmarried to the
best of my recollection) pretended to be
aggrieved because woman had this great
privilege, but the Judges on the bench de-
cided in favor of the women, and no more
was heard from them on the subject forever
after.
	Men want the ballot for the better pro-
tection of home and property, women want
the ballot for the self same reasons. Taxa-
tion without representation is as much
tyranny for women as for men, women are
tax-payers; it is not indelicate for a woman
to go to the court house to pay her taxes,
yet she meets there the same class of men,
she would meet at the polls. 	E. B. W.


RESOLUTIONS PASSED AT THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

PREAMBLE.
	WE the women of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States, organized in the inter-
est of no one propaganda, and having no power
over the organizations which constitute the Coun-
cil, beyond that of suggestion of sympathy, hav-
ing learned that the best good of our homes and
our nation is advanced by our unity of thought
and purpose, and that an organized movement of
women best conserves the highest good of the
family and the State, banded in a federation of
workers committed to the overthrow of all forms
of ignorance and injustice, and to the application
of the "Golden Rule" to society, custom and law,
do hereby resolve.
PROGRESS OF WOMEN.
	Whereas, The years since the last session of
the National Council of Women of the United
States have opened many avenues to woman's in-
dustry; have made many changes in law and cus-
tom in her favor; have witnessed the grand
spectacle of women participating in the Columbian
Exposition in an official capacity and endowed by
the United Siates Government with equality of
power and responsibility; have demonstrated the
growing tendency in all denominations toward the
proper recognization of women in their repre-
sentation in the Parliament of Religions, and have
shown us that the advanced and truly learned
thinkers of all faiths and lands agree that there
is nothing in the spirit and essence of their re-
ligions which necessitates woman's degradation or
indicates her divinely appointed inferiority; have
been marked by a marvelous growth of organiza-
tion among women for educational reform and
philanthropic purposes, binding all classes and
climes together with cords of love for harmonious
action and finding its most perfect exponent in
that magnificent gathering, the Congress of
Representative Women, and finally, have brought
to women the full recognition of their rights as
citizens in one of our great States and in two
most important divisions of the British Empire;
therefore
	Resolved, That we rejoice in the evidences of


[Column 1]
the advancement of woman and the race and see
in them the bright forecast of the time when the
last restriction which exists in society, in the
church and in the State, to prevent woman from
the full exercise of all her powers for the best
good of humanity, will be eradicated from custom,
creed and statute
CAPITAL AND LABOR.
	Whereas the ethical adjustment of the relations
between capital and labor is a serious problem as
evidenced by the increasing frequency of strikes
and demonstrations accompanied by disorder and
resulting in incalculable loss and suffering and
	Whereas labor and capital have no natural and
permanent diversity of interests, and all conflicts
between these industrial factors are the result of
artificial conditions equally at variance with the
spirit of our republican institutions and of the
Golden Rule; therefore
	Resolved, That recognizing the fact that sel-
fishness is social disintegration and believing it to
be the duty of every patriotic citizen to give seri-
ous and candid attention to the questions involved
in economic conditions, and to use all possible
personal influence to establish society upon a
basis of love and fraternity. We, the Council,
urge that co operation, instead of competition,
should be adopted as the standard to which in-
dustrial relations should be brought. As an im-
mediate remedial measure we urge that all dis-
putes between capital and labor be referred to
National State, or voluntary tribunals of con-
ciliation and arbitration and that the whole
strength of public opinion be brought to bear to
compel such reference and the acceptance of the
decision.
INDUSTRY.
	Resolved, Since juctice requires that in all de-
partments of service, efficiency and not sex shall
be considered, we demand that the United States
Government shall set the standard for the country
by paying its employees equal wages for equal
work and by holding women equally eligible for
all competitive examinations and for employ-
ment and promotion.
EDUCATION.
	Resolved, That in the best interests of educa-
tion and as a matter of justice, we ask that wo-
men as well as men shall be elected or appointed
on all school boards in the several States and
Territories. We earnestly favor the establish-
ment at the Nation's Capital of a National
University for post-graduate study, open alike to
men and women and that women also shall be
appointed on the regularly constituted board of
control. We heartily endorse the effort to give
the youth of the country scientific temperance
instruction in the public schools. Since a
simultaneous training of the child's hand and
brain is demanded for its harmonious develop-
ment, we earnestly request all School Boards in the
United States to adopt the kindergarten method
and to combine manual with mental training as a
fundamental part of our public school system.
DRESS REFORM.
	Resolved, Since woman's dress should be
healthful, should be beautiful in its conformity to
th[-] principles of art and nature, and should leave
her a free and untrammeled factor in the world's
progress, we commend to the serious attention of
women the various designs already evolved
which meet these requirements.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE.
	Resolved, Since great suffering and injustice
arise from there being in the various States of our
country different laws governing marriage, and
divorce, we urge such legislation, State and
National, as shall secure uniformity in this respect;
and since both sexes are equally concerned in the
adjustment of these relations we demand that in
all commissions created to deal with those ques-
tions women be appointed to act co-ordinately
with men.
PHILANTHROPY.
	Resolved, That as unjust laws are still in force
in some of the states relating to the personal and
property rights of women, we respectfully ask
our country women to investigate State and
National laws and to recommend such amend-
ments as shall give to all women justice and
equity, and we urge the appointment of women
on boards of management of all correctional and
charitable institutions. We rejoice in all organiza-
tions and missions advocating an equal standard
of purity for men and women, and working for the
rescue of erring girls from a life of sin. We ask
our own and all nations to investigate causes of

[Column 2]
intemperance and to enact legislative remedies
for the evils resulting therefrom. We oppose all
forms of cruelty, and advocate education in hu-
mane principles and the abolition of the practice
of vivisection.
	Believing that the time has come in the progress
of the race when all difficulties between civilized
nations should be settled without resort to arms,
we rejoice that the United States Government
has invited the nations of the civilized world to
unite in a permanent treaty of arbitration, and
that Great Britain has taken steps looking to the
adoption of such a treaty; and
	It is the opinion of this body that a permanent
National board of Peace and Arbitration should
be added to our government, and we respectfully
suggest that a Peace Commission composed of
men and women shall be appointed and provided
for to confer with the governments of other na-
tions upon the subject of establishing an inter-
national Court of Arbitration.
RELIGION.
	Resolved, That we rejoice in the growing
unity between persons of different religious be-
liefs, as evidenced in their union in work, human-
itarian, philanthropic, and reformatory.
	We protest against persecution of any people
on account of religious belief or of unbelief, or
because of race or condition, as contrary to the
spirit and civilization of our time.
	We suggest to all religious organizations to in-
clude as part of their study, religion as applied to
the home, society, the union and life in general;
and
	We appeal to all ecclesiastical bodies to so
amend their laws, if necessary, that they shall not
in any way discriminate between man and wo-
man.
	Resolved, That we deplore the outrages com-
mitted upon the Armenians, and record our ap-
preciation of the unflinching heroism of our
Armenian sisters in sacrificing their lives in de-
fence of their honor and freedom of conscience,
and we earnestly urge our sisters in Great Britain
and other countries of Europe to use their in-
fluence with their governments that they take
immediate action to establish security of life,
honor, and property in Armenia.
	Resolved, That religion and patriotism demand
that we protest against the Russian persecution
of the Jew as an outrage against humanity and as
forcing on our shores hordes of immigrants, un-
skilled and ignorant of our institutions, who com-
plicate our industrial problems and who should
be allowed to live in peace in their own land and
that we protest against Russia refusing to recog-
nize the pass port of the United States when held
by a Jew and ask our Representatives to uphold
the honor of our country in having its passports
respected. That patriotism and humanity de-
mand that we protest against the present course
of injustice toward the colored people and the
Indians, practiced by our people and permitted by
our government.
PATRIOTISM.
	Resolved, That realizing the dangers which
threaten the nation from dense and diverse popu-
lations and from a lax enforcement of law of im-
migration and naturalization, we urge upon all our
people that they co-operate to enforce existing
laws and that they earnestly inquire what further
legislation is necessary to make them more
effective.
	We gladly invite and welcome to our industrial
life and to our educational and political privileges
all who seek homes in this country, and who de-
sire to increase their own and the general welfare
under the guarant[-]es of law. We believe that
illiteracy should be a bar to the use of the ballot
by the native or the foreign born citizen, and we
protest against the entrance upon our shores of
the vicious classes of other lands, who bring with
them influences contrary to American Institu-
tions and tending to anarchy.
	We protest against what is known as "lynch
law" since the right of trial accordtng to legal
process is a fundamental principle of justice and
liberty, and obedience to the laws of the land is
the first duty of the citizen.
	We believe that patriotic teaching in the school,
the introduction of the American flag into every
school-room in the land and its salute as the
symbol and the prophecy of peace, of progress,
of universal liberty and of equal rights under the
Constitution, would unite the nation’s children,
strengthen love of law and develop the spirit of
patriotism, which is the life of the Republic.
	We commend the American patriotic salute
known as the original "Balch Salute," which
pledges allegiance to the Fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man and the flag of our

[Column 3]
country, as the triune grace of good citizenship.
THANKS.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Council of Women of the United States as-
sembled in its Second Triennial Session, are
hereby extended to the press of the country for
the splendid reports of the meetings, which have
spread a knowledge of the Council work, and to
the correspondents, the reporters and the Associ-
ated and United Press representatives for their
work in this direction, and to the chairman of the
Council's Press Committee, Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton, for the ability, devotion and courtesy with
which she has discharged the duties of her
position.
	Resolved, That the National Council heartily
thanks Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Chairman of the
Committee on Railroad rates for the unfailing
patience and kindliness with which she has filled
a position demanding much labor and yielding
neither pleasure nor honor.
	Resolved, That the National Council extends
its thanks to its Committee of Local Arrange-
ments, and its Chairman, Mrs. Jennette N. Brad-
ley; for the efficient manner in which all arrange-
ments for the comfort of the Council members
and visitors have been provided for.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks to the
Independent Ice Company for furnishing so freely
the ice for the use of all those attending the
meetings, and to all the employees of this build-
ing, whose willingness to be helpful, even be-
yond the actual demands of their duty, has done
so much to assist the Council workers during the
past fortnight.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks for the
kind assistance rendered to the work of our
standing committee on Patriotic Teaching by the
loan of flags by Captain Wallace Foster, and by
the American Flag Company.
MEMORIAL.
	Resolved, That in the death of its patrons,
Mrs. Rosa Miller Avery, Ruth O. Delamater and
M. Adeline Thompson, the Council has lost three
whose names were valuable to it, and whose in-
fluence strengthened it in the communities in
which their lives were passed.
	Resolved, That the Council extends its sym-
pathy to the organizations which form it for the
loss during the last four years of many valued
workers from their ranks, prominent among these
being Lucy Stone, Amelia Bloomer, Mary J.
Seymour, Mary T. Lothrop, Mary A. Woodbridge,
Julia Ames, Mary Allen West, Myra Bradwell,
Elizabeth Oakes Smith, Sally Holley, Virginia L.
Minor, Marian Skidmore, Presendia L. Kimball
and Elizabeth Howard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	DIED at Pine, Gila Co. Arizona, Feb 13th,
Elisha Woodward age eleven days; infant son of
Manson J. and Emarette Fuller.
	God in love giveth, in his love taketh away,
blessed be his name.
								E. C. F. 
	MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN, wife of
William R. Brown and the first president of the
General Federation of woman’s clubs,died at her
home on Chestnut street. East Orange, Feb. 5,
of pneumonia. She was the niece of Ralph Wal-
do Emerson. Her funeral took place Friday
afternoon at 2 o’clock, Feb. 8th.
	DIED at Paragoonah Iron Co.. June 17th, 1894,
of heart disease, Sister Jane Talbot, the beloved
wife of Robert Talbot, and daughter of Dennis
and Mary Grundy. Deceased was born at Pen-
dle-bury Lancashire, England, July 20th, 1832.
She leaves a husband, one son and one daughter,
and four grand-children, and friends to mourn her
loss. Sister Talbot joined the church of Jesus
Christ in the year 1847; emigrated to Utah in 1863.
Crossed the ocean with her mother and sister in
the ship Antartic. Crossed the plains in Captain
Nebeker’s company. Arriving in Salt Lake City
Sep. 29th, and came to Paragoonah the same
year, where she resided the most of her time un-
til her death. She was a teacher in the Relief
Society for a number of years, and labored faith-
fully in that calling until sickness overtook her.
She was a true Latter-day Saint and died in full
faith of a glorious Resurrection.
		MARY E. FORSYTH, Ass’t Sec., R. S.
	DIED in the ninth ward Salt Lake City, Feb.
1st, 1895. Julia Spencer, beloved wife of Wilford
Woodruff Jr. She was born in Nephi Juab Co,
May 6th, 1856.
	She was a teacher of the ninth ward Relief


Society, filling the position till within a few days
of her demise. She was ever willing to perform
any duty assigned her, kind and generous to the
poor and helpful to the afflicted, she was truly a
mother in Israel as she assisted to rear her hus-
band’s first family. She leaves a son and
daughter of her own, also a little child whom
she adopted about two years ago, whose parents
deserted it.
	Her funeral was largely attended in the 9th,
Ward Meeting House, Feb. 3rd. Consolatory and
edifying remarks were made by President Joseph
F.Smith, Apostle John H. Smith, President
Woodruff and others. The remains of this good
woman were followed to the cemetery by her
many relatives and friends who will greatly miss
her.
							MARY MAIR.
President R. S., Ninth Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Passed from earth, in the Second Ward, Salt
Lake City, 1—o’clock a. m., Feb. 12, 1895,
Margaret C. Alder, eldest child of Elder George
D. Alder, (Supt. of the Sabbath School,) and his
wife Dean Caine Alder, aged nearly five years.
	She was the first grand child of George A. and
Lydia D. Alder, and grand-daughter of Hon.
John T. Caine and wife.
	Margaret was stricken down by the dread
disease, Diphtheria, on Jan. 31,1895, and not with-
standing, all earthly aid was rendered, nor that
her name was constantly borne to the throne of
God, in His Holy House, in earnest, solicitous
prayer, she passed away, from those who love her
well, into the Spirit Land.
	The gracious Father, “Who doeth all things
well,” called her to Himself.
	May He pour out His Spirit, upon her stricken
parents, and all her loved ones, and give them a
greater hope, in the life beyond.
	Her funeral was held the same day. Looking
like a beautiful wax flower, surrounded by white
roses and fragrant carnations, (the gifts of near
relatives,) her little white casket covered with
choice flowers from sympathizing friends, was
lowered in the tomb.
	The spot was dedicated to her rest, by Bishop
L. G. Hardy, “Till the trump of God shall sound,
when the dead in the Lord, shall rise to life ever-
lasting.”
	Many sorrowing relatives and friends, followed
to the cemetery, where with the frozen tears of
Nature gently falling on the little mound, we left
her to her sleep.
	“Farewell Margaret! Farewell! Until the set
time of the Lord! Then may we clasp you to
our aching hearts again.”
L. D. Alder.


THE WOMAN’S BIBLE.
CHAPTER I.
By Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	And God said, Let us make man in our image,
after our likeness: and let them have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the
air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.
	So God created man in his own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and female
created he them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the
earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the
fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth.
	Here is the sacred historian’s first account
of the advent of woman; a simultaneous
creation of both sexes, in the image of
God. It is evident from the language that
there was consultation in the Godhead,
and that the masculine and feminine ele-
ments were equally represented. Scott in
his commentaries says, “this consultation
of the Gods is the origin of the doctrine of
the trinity.” But instead of three male
personages, as generally represented, a
Heavenly Father, Mother, and Son would
seem more rational.
	The first step in the elevation of woman
to her true position, as an equal factor in
human progress, is the cultivation of the
reli[--]ious sentiment in regard to her dignity
and equality, the recognition by the rising
generation of an ideal Heavenly Mother,
to whom their prayers should be addressed,
as well as to a Father.
	If language has any meaning, we have
in these texts a plain declaration of the
existence of the feminine element in the
Godhead, equal in power and glory with the
masculine. The Heavenly Mother and
Father! “God created man in his own
image, male and female.” Thus scripture, 
as well as science and philosophy, declare
the eternity and equality of sex,—th 
philosophical fact, without which there
could have been no perpetuation of crea-
tion, no growth or development in the
animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdoms, no
awakening nor progressing in the world of
thought. The masculine and feminine
elements, exactly equal and balancing each
other, are as essential to the maintenance
of the equilibrium of the universe as the
positive and negative electricity, the north
and south magnetism, the centripetal and
centrifugal forces, the laws of attraction
which binds together all we know of this
planet whereon we dwell and of the system
in which we revolve.
	In the great work of creation the crown-
ing glory was realized, when man and wo-
man were evolved on the sixth day, the
masculine and feminine forces in the image
of God, that must have existed eternally,
in all forms of matter and mind. All the
persons in the Godhead are represented in
the Eloheim th divine plurality taking
counsel in regard to this last and highest 
form of life. Who were the members of
this high council, and whether a quality or
a trinity? Verse 27th declares the image
of God male and female. How then is it
possible to make woman an afterthought?
We find in verses 5-16 the pronoun “he”
used. Should it not in harmony with
verse 29 be “they,” a dual pronoun? We
may attribute this to the same cause as the
use of “his” in verse 11 instead of “it.”
“The fruit tree yielding fruit after “his”
kind instead of after “its” kind. The
paucity of a language may give rise to
many misunderstandings.
	The above texts plainly show the simul- 
taneous creation of man and woman, and
their equal importance in the development
of the race. All those theories based on
the assumption that man was prior in the
creation, have no foundation in scripture.
	As to woman’s subjection, on which both
the canon and the civil law delight to
dwell, it is important to note that equal
dominion is given to woman over every
living thing, but not one word is said giv-
ing man dominion over woman.
	Here is the first title deed to this green
earth given alike to the sons and daughters
of God. No lesson of woman’s subjection
can be fairly drawn from the first chapter
of the Old Testament.


[Column 1]
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Minking in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. West Temple Street
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

[Column 2]
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commmence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Wednesday,
April 10, 1895.
Tuition, $50.00 Residence and office 34
East 5th, South. Telephone 383.
CONFERENCE RATES,
Via Union Pacific System.
Special Hates to Salt Lake City for
the Sixty-fifth Annual Conference,
April 4th to 7th, 1895, will be
made by the Union Pacific, as
follows:

From. Rate. From. Rate. 
Laramie, $23.75 McCamon, 5.75
Carbon, 19.60 Downey, 5.00
Rawlins, 15.50 Oxford, 4.25
Rock Springs, 9.75 Cannon, ter. hn 4.00
Green River, 8.95 Preston, Idaho 4.25
Granger, 7.75 Franklin, " 4.25
Carter, 6.60 Richmond, 4.25
Evanston, 4.60 Smithfleld, 4.10
Almy, 4.50 Logan, 3.80
Mendon, 3.55
Cache Junction 3.25
Park City, 2.00 Collinston,2.75
Wanship, 2.00 Dewey, 2.50
Coalville, 2.00 Honeyville, 2.25
Echo, 2.00 Brigham, 2.00
Morgan, 2.00 Willard, 1.75
Peterson, 1.75 Hot Springs, 1.50
Uintah, 1.50 Harrisville, 1.50
Ogden 1.50 Frisco, 8.00
Hooper, 1.20 Milford, 6.50
Syracuse Jun., 1.10 Black Rock, 6.00
Layton, .90 Clear Lake, 5.50
Kaysville, .80 Oasis, 4.75
Farmington, .60 Lemmington, 4.00
Lake Shore, .50 Juab, 3.25
Centreville, .35 Nephi, 3.00
Woods Cross, .2 Santaquin, 3.25
Simpkins, .25 Payson, 2.35
Terminus, 1.50 Benjamin, 2.25
Tooele, 1.20 Spanish Fork, 2.25
Erda, 1.10 Springville, 2.10
Lake Point .80 Provo, 1.90
Garfield, .75 Lake View, 1.70
Opal, 9.60 Pleasant Grove 1.50
Ham’s Fork, 9.60 American Fork 1.35
Cokeville, 9.60 Lehi, 125
Montpelier, 9.60 Lehi Junction,1.20 
Soad Springs, 8.03 Draper, .70
Minidoka, 8.50 Sandy, .50
Shoshone, 12.40 Junction, .85
Hailey, 15.26 Lovendahl's .30 
Ketchum,15.90 Germanis, .25
Beaver Canon 12.90 Murray, .25
Market Lake, 10.35 Eureka, 3.25
Idaho Falls, 9.50 Silver City, 3.25
Blackfoot, 8.20 Fairfield, 2.25
Pocatello, 7.00 Cedar Fort, 1.95
Selling dates.—From Ogden, Santa-
quin and intermediate points, April
4th to 7th inclusive, good for return
until April 12th, and from all other
points April 3rd to 7b, good for return
until April 15th, 1895.
Special trains will be run from Cache
Valley, Ogden, Park City. Juab and
all intermediate points. See bills for
time of trains.
D. E. Burley,
General Agent Salt Lake.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOM AS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VoL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1895. No. 18.


CONTENTS:
	The Spirit of Reform Reduced to Practice—
Louisa Greene Richards. Our Sixth Sense, or
Sense of Spiritual Understanding—Sarah M.
Kimball. Woman Suffrage Column. Back to
The Long Ago—L. M. Hewlings. U. W. P. C.—
Lizzie S. Wilcox. Woman’s Influence—Lizzie D.
Armstrong. Social Purity—Katie - Halladay
Cragan. Equal Suffrage Section. Silk Associa-
tion Meeting—Corinne M. Allen. Appreciation
And Thanks. Testimony of Mrs Bassett. In
Memoriam—Sarah M. Kimball. A Word To
Those Who Are Interested In the Silk Culture—
Ella Pyper. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Conferences And Conventions. 		 
	POETRY:—Hunting A Hat—Augusta Joyce
Grocheron. When Easter Comes—Margaret E.
Sangster.


[Column 1]
HUNTING A HAT.

"WHEN did I last buy me a hat?
	I really don’t remember
Whether ’twas some spring conference
 	Or sometime in December. 
You cannot judge by seeing it,
	What might have been the season,
And as for naming, just the style
	’Twould quite bewilder reason.

You see my dear, your ways and mine
	In special matters vary;
You choose and order something fine,
	While I must be so wary;
The first thought must be just how much,
	No—just how little, may be
Taken from all the endless needs
	Of household down to baby.

And that is just the first of it
	Not yet the worst point either,
Two solemn truths present themselves
	And I can hide from neither.
When taste and judgment disagree,
	The task’s not an ideal
Delightful one for me—as you—
	But most severely real.

With superstitious dread I view
 	A thing all black and sober,
No matter if I was born in
	The late month of October.
Nor do I want my hat to bear
	Art’s tinsel grapes and berries,
Or like Italian vender’s tray
	Piled up with flowers and cherries.

If I could reach my hand and make
	Just my own free selection,
From that felicity would turn
	A mental introspection; 
And I would ask myself: ‘‘well now,
	After all your endeavor
And getting what you liked the best
	Don’t you look worse than ever?”

For weary face and faded hair
	Fair milliner, I pray you,
Evoke such colors, style and grace
	As shall beloved make you.
No—that won’t do—’tis well enough,
	’Tis charming when you wear it,
It makes you fairer, younger still,
	But I—I would not dare it.

Is there not something that won’t show
	The contrast all too strongly,
As mist enwraps and makes more fair
	Some scene, nor doeth wrongly?
O, cheek and eyes and smile of youth,
	I read without your speaking:

[Column 2]
“It is not here, has passed away
	Years back, beyond your seeking.”

For bloom of health and hope of youth
	Graced e’en the simplest dressing;
What now in place of childhood’s wreath
	And parents’ fond carressing?
What do we win for what we lose
	While we are growing older,
Have we soul-jewels for bright cheeks,
	Has life grown bright, or colder?

But I forget—I take your time;
	Why should I still look vainly,
For your fair face beside my own
	In mirror answers plainly;
There is no use to argue with
	Facts all too plain and truthful,
Your dainty goods and all their grace
	Belong to faces youthful.

Just pick me out the plainest hat—
	I think at last we’ve found it;
As kindly moss, hides storm-scarred bough
	Just wreathe a veil around it,
And have it large enough, my dear,
	My face to shield and cover
So I might pass unknown beside
	My truest old-time lover.

Can’t you slip in a little tint
	To light it just the slightest,
Some where just as through clouds at night
	One star shines out the brightest?
Or, as in ashes that seem dead
	There hideth still the embers,
That wake to touch like some past joy,
	The heart oftimes remembers?

Ah, lovely milliner, how well
	You know your task and do it,
They could not tell as swift I pass,
	Who sees so plainly through it.
Bright be thy life as in thy smile
	And blessings rest upon it,
And chase forever far ahead
	As I could wish in sonnet—
The time, when you no more can wear
	The loveliest new bonnet.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, April, 1895.


[Column 1]
THE SPIRIT OF REFORM REDUCED
TO PRACTICE.
	IN the Book of Books it is written, “God
said ‘Let there be light’ and there was
light.’’ An abstract truth is herein set
forth, but the whole sum of the matter is
not expressed. Reason teaches that there
were agencies who understood and obeyed
the mandate of divine authority, and thus
the purpose of the Lord was fulfilled. Not
words alone, but works; brave, determined,
incessant effort, wields the power which
will eventually revolutionize the world.
	The world in its grand old age has grown
very wise, and contains many teachers.
Also many who aspire to be teachers with-
out the necessary preparation and qualifica-
tions.
	Of the latter class the unwary should be-
ware, lest “the blind lead the blind, and
both fall into the ditch.”
	It is good to desire, with great and strong
desire to be a teacher of truth. And it is
possible for almost every one to become a
true teacher; not an imaginary or mislead-

[Column 2]
ing one. It should be considered a cause
for individual congratulation, that the in-
fluence of one pure and noble character, of
life, is of more lasting and certain weight
in the scale of the world’s reformation, than
the preaching of a thousand sermons or the
publishing of thousands of volumes. Up-
on first thought, this statement may appear
questionable in the minds of some, but a
brief analysis offers proofs of its correctness. 
	In the first place, the one grand soul
which in spite of all obstacles, heroically
performs its daily duties, small or great, to
the end of mortal life, is saved. While of
all the millions of hearts which may be
thrilled by the sound of the thousand ser-
mons, or the perusal of the many volumes,
not one, by those means, independent of
self exertion, will ever secure salvation.
And again, the object lesson presented by a
worthy life, to those who are fortunate
enough to come within the circle of its
light, is of greater practical value than the
mere listening to the most eloquent ser-
mons, or reading of the most instructive
works, can be. For one is the positive
demonstration of exalted truths; the others
are simply oral and book lessons.
	The present era is one of general educa-
tion. The world is full of educated, or at
least partially educated speakers and wri-
ters. Has it a proportionate number of
charitable and sympathetic hearts and will-
ing, do its workers or a majority of them
actually work for the good of humanity,
for the reformation and salvation of the
masses; ready, patient hands? Or is there,
within the breasts of many, underlying
this high and holy object, a reaching after
vain glory, a yearning for adulation, a love
of praise? And in many instances, coupled
with these polluting tendencies, is there
not an undue and selfish longing for world-
ly wealth? No heart need fear to take
home, and kindly entertain these questions;
and prove them, whether they be friendly
messengers come to give warning of dangers
ahead, or mere safety inspectors, looking
after the general weal. Where there is
no dross to be consumed, the fire need not
be dreaded.
	If, however, the evils here mentioned are
really prevalent, to what cause may such 
lamentable effects be traced? Does it not
give rise to reasonable apprehensions that
something is at fault with the general
manner, or matter, by which the public 
mind is nourished? Let us look into this
subject.
	Children attend school and are over-fed
mentally, as a rule, in this generation. 
Often vanity and love of praise are engen-
dered, fostered and highly developed in the
innocent child, to sharpen the appetite and
increase the thirst for learning. Thus the
capacity of the brain is expanded at the
expense and to the neglect of the heart.
Thus knowledge is eagerly sought and
obtained through selfish motives, for world-
ly honor and gain; instead of in the spirit
of generosity, to do good and diffuse light
in the midst of the world.
	Parents as well as teachers, home as well
as school influences all lead in much the


[Column 1]
same direction. Fathers and mothers,
ambitious for the honor and high positions
to which they fondly hope to see their
children attain, bestow persuasive con-
gratulations and flattery, in season and out
of season, wherever and whenever the
slightest opportunities are presented, and
often without the least modification. Can
there be any wonder that hearts thus un-
cultured, coupled with minds thus over-
trained, springing up all over the world,
should flood it with unwholesome literature
and false theories, advanced in lectures,
books, and works of every kind?
	What a lamentable thing it is—not that
we have too many speakers, writers or
teachers, but that we have so few of the
right kind. Good books are among our
best friends; too many books which teach
nothing but sound doctrine, will never be
written or published. Too many sermons
of pure and true moral and religious tenden-
cies will never be preached. It is the un-
sound, misleading matter, though perhaps
bright, entertaining and high-sounding, all
the more dangerous if it be so, which is
written with a view to gaining popularity
for its authors, that is too lavishly diffused,
and should be consigned to oblivion before 
it sees the light.
	What mountains of labor arise to con-
front workers, in the counteracting of the
mischievious results of all this false educa-
tion which has been going on and gaining
strength for generations! How carefully 
should they look to it, that they be not
themselves deceived, and become contamina-
ted with the same spirit and influence which
actuate the narrow-minded and short- 
sighted lovers of gain.
	Leaders there must be, that the world’s
work may be carried forward to its final
consummation. But let them be those who
are workers themselves, and whose works
bear fruits worthy of inspection and ac-
ceptance. Then, let followers keep their
leaders in view; and not, through undue
self confidence, or negligence, run reckless-
ly, in line or out of line, just as it may
happen. Harmony, in any pursuit, can
only be maintained through the strict obser-
vance of immutable laws.
	Notice a choir master, and the worshiping
assembly, in congregational singing, where
musical talent is not much cultivated. One
portion of the congregation, not consider-
ing themselves professionals, make no at-
tempt to sing, being either too proud or too
modest to join in an effort wherein they are
not sure to excel. Another portion sing
boldly, heedlessly, with great self-reliance,
never taking thought or trouble to look at
the baton in the hand of the master. Ah,
the poor master! You can see how dis-
heartened he becomes, as some push ahead
while others lag behind almost destroying,
at times, the melody of those voices whose
possessors watch the baton and sing in
harmony. It may not be the discordant
singers who form the majority, but often,
they make so much noise that they seem to
be the larger part of the congregation.
And they are the ones who turn their
heads and say to their neighbors, “Well
did you ever hear such singing? If I be-
longed to such a choir, I would break loose
and found one of my own.”
	So it is with the world, its would-be re-
formers, and its real reformers, today.
Many are doing nothing, Many are doing
great things in their own estimation, but
worse than nothing in the estimation of

[Column 2]
others. While some are, watching the
baton, and by keeping in accord with its
movements, are working harmoniously for
the regeneration of mankind.
	To which of these classes do I belong? is
a serious question, which every one will do
well to ask of self. And if a feeling of
indifference, or of envy, of jealous rivalry
or inconsideration for the welfare of others
is found to be present in any degree, there
is a good place to begin immediate and
earnest work in reducing the spirit of re-
form to practice.
	In the same spirit, and with the same
view of actual reform, may be made an
appeal for peace between men and women.
The battle waged, for the maintenance of
supremacy on one side, and the recognition
of inherent rights on the other, has been
long and rigorously pursued. But, thanks
to God, and to our noble, self-sacrificing
champions of woman's cause, and universal
justice, we may hope at least, that the
principle of equal rights is beginning to be
understood, that the war between the sexes
is nearly over, and that soon, “The smoke
of its cannons” will have cleared away, 
and “The clashing of its bayonets” will be
no longer heard. For wars, either with
weapons in the mouth or in the hand, are
terrible; and their giving way for the ex-
tension of peace is a most desirable se-
quence. If, however, this happy termina-
tion may not be said to have already come
in sight, add if a call for the declaration of
peace would be considered premature, yet,
let us joyfully anticipate its early appear-
ance, and be prepared to meet it with 
suitable acclaim.
	Let us begin to cultivate and exhibit
feelings of peace and love toward all, and
be ready for the good time when it does
come. And while peace, beautiful peace,
is preparing to spread her white, downy
wings over our hearts and homes in restful
security, may we not briefly but cautiously
review portions of the theories and systems
adopted in modern education, and note
some changes which might be suggested
by way of improvement?
	Already has it been intimated, in a
former paragraph, that undue expansion of
the intellectual powers is required by the
present forms of our schools and colleges,
to the neglect and injury of other faculties.	
	The saddest thing in connection with this
mistaken plan, is the effort to crush out the
finest sentiments, the most sacred instincts
of the human heart. The first great divine
commandment given to man and woman
on this earth, which was to “Be fruitful
and multiply,” has been ruthlessly set
aside and trampled upon. And this is
looked upon as philanthropic and praise
worthy by some of our much-learned pro-
fessors and teachers. Indeed, rules are
sought to be established, in some instances,
prohibiting the acceptance of a married
woman as a teacher in a public school.
And young women who have been found
to possess especial adaptabilities as teachers,
have even been solicited to sign contracts
to the effect that they never will marry, but
will devote their lives to the training of
other people’s children. What unwarrant-
ed disregard of divine law! What an out-
rage upon humanity—what sacrilege! It 
would seem incredible that intelligent and
enlightened manhood could be so utterly
blinded to the noblest and purest impulses
of human nature. Who does not know
that marriage—happy, true marriage—is

[Column 3]
the high school of virtue—yea, of all the
virtues which God designed as guides to
perfect life for His children, the offspring of
Deity.
	Who can realize that an unmarried man,
or a woman standing alone in the world, is
but half of the perfect being God designed
in His creation of humanity? True it is
that many who have passed through life
unmarried, (mostly women) have done
great good, have made the world better for
their having lived in it; but who can tell
how much more good they might have
accomplished with the aid, encouragement,
and support of suitable companions, to have
formed more perfect beings? There is
nothing truer than that the woman, who, 
for any reason, is debarred the privilege of
motherhood in pure and holy wedlock, of
clasping to her bosom her own priceless,
God-given child, is denied the highest and
most choice gift the loving Father ever
intended His daughters to receive.
	Yet, mark the armies of unmarried
women to be met with everywhere; look
into their hungry eyes, which are only
indexes to their poor, starving, fam-
ished hearts! They smile, but the smile is
soulless; they laugh, but the laugh is
hollow and bitter!
	Let a new plan of tuition be mapped out,
let our young men and young women, the 
former especially, as with them it is most
needed—(for women would marry with
proper opportunities) be taught and made
to understand, that life unsanctified by
wisely, prayerfully chosen wedded com-
panionship, if not wasted is worthless in
comparison to what it might be if more
judiciously managed. That while, as to 
all general rules, there may be honorable
exceptions, the position of such an excep-
tion is not an enviable one.
	God gave to mankind, in the beginning,
a safe preventive of the most direful evils
which exist or ever have existed upon the
earth. It has been outlawed and ignored
by man’s superficial rulings. And now,
the only antidote for those crying evils, is a
return to the acceptance of the primitive
divine law.
	In our little worlds—the home—and
social circles where individual influence may
be brought to bear, let us put forth strong,
invincible efforts, that reformation in its
true sense may be made apparent.
	Beginning with ourselves, let us see to it
that the spirit of reform is reduced to
practice.
			LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
		Jan. 26th, 1895.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“THE Tucson Star says of the Arizona
House of Representatives:
	The Legislative Assembly passed the wo-
man suffrage bill by a vote of 17 to 7,
which shows that the measure is popular
with the people, and indicates that there
are a number of rising statesmen in the As-
sembly who have taken off their hats to the
rising sun, and who clearly see the drift of
public sentiment; for, as sure as the day
follows the night, woman suffrage will be
the rule in every State and Territory within
the next ten years, and every public man
who makes his record against this right of
American womanhood will be retired from
politics. This is the edict of the progress-
ive American spirit which has taken hold
on the people.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WHEN EASTER COMES.

WHEN Easter comes and violets lift
	Their shyly hooded faces.
Where late the frozen snow adrift
	Heaped high the woodland spaces.
When Easter comes and sunbeams dance
	On green leaves all a quiver,
And grasses rally, spear and lance,
	By rippling brook and river. 
	
When Easter comes the lilies haste
	What time the bells are ringing,
To bring their perfumes, pure and chaste,
	From hallowed censers swinging.
Shine dim church aisles on Easter Day
	Beneath their serried whiteness.
And happy children kneel and pray
	Amid the lilied brightness.

When Easter comes, a merry train,
	The robin, wren, and starling,
With song and wing are here again,
	And many another darling.
The bluebird and the oriole,
	The martin and the swallow,
	“Away,” they chant, “with grief and dole,
	Here’s Spring, and Summer’ll follow!”

When Easter comes, when Easter comes.
	The Winter’s spell is over!
Ere long we’ll hear the elfin drums
	Where bees are deep in clover.
After we catch the swaying lilt
	Of winds amony the daises,
And see the rosecups’ sweetness spilt
	Among the garden mazes.

When Easter comes, ah! happy day,
	E’en tears like dewdrops glisten.
And songs climb up the heavenward way
	While angels bend to listen. 
For love and life and joy untold
	Are in the age-long story
That spells itself on harps of gold,
	And thrills with endless glory.
			MARGARET E. SANGSTER


[Column 1]
OUR SIXTH SENSE, OR THE SENSE
OF SPIRITUAL UNDERSTANDING.

[Read at the Triennial Council of Women
in Washington February 21, 1895.]
“Come Holy Spirit, Heavenly Dove,
With all thy quickening powers,
Kindle a flame of sacred love,
In these cold hearts of ours.”
	It is proper on occasions like this, to con-
sider such topics as shall be of the highest
benefit to womankind; and to my mind, it
is fitting to discuss here, that capacity of
mind in which woman is pre-eminently
fitted to excel. The contemplation of the
sense of spiritual understanding first gives
me a sense of my littleness and inability,
then encourages me in the attempt to ex-
press a few thoughts on this absorbing
theme.
	This faculty, like our physical sense, is
susceptible of cultivation. Its possibilities
are limitless; it is the cause least understood;
it is the divine of our nature; it brings to
our understanding things not seen with the
natural eye, or discerned by mortal mind;
it extends our correspondences. With the
eyes and senses of our physical self, we are
in correspondence with our physical sur-
roundings, with our spiritual eyes and
senses awakened and cultivated, we come
into communion with infinitude.
	The sixth sense links mortal with im-
mortal existence; it testifies in unmistakable
language of the immortality of the soul.

[Column 2]
It educates, exalts, and refines those that
heed its whisperings, and follow its guiding
influence. This sense leads to blissful
heights of superior understanding; teaches
the secrets of ever-existent life; our relation-
ship to the past, present, and future, and
brings us into harmony with the infinite
fountain of life and intelligence. It illu-
mines the soul that cultivates it; purifies
thoughts and actions; enlarges the sphere
of comprehension, and exalts the aspira-
tions. Its continued exercise brings its
possessor nearer and nearer to the throne of
the Almighty.
	Those who answer the whisperings of
this sense, are sympathetically drawn to-
ward each other, as exemplified in the Re-
ligious Congress held in Chicago in 1893,
where religious pilgrims and would-be re-
formers from all lands, and of all creeds,
met and harmonized in a bond of love.
This was notably true of the Woman’s
Department of the Memorable Congress.
	The light of this sense has been fore-
shadowed in various ages of the world’s
history. In the nineteenth century, the
search-light of Religion, Philosophy, and
Science, have united in exploring an un-
troden pathway toward the haven of light
which is inextinguishable.
	The legitimate exercise of spiritual power
obtained through the operations of this
sense, puts the individual in possession of
keys of knowledge, and clothes him with
additional responsibility relating to the
enlightenment and elevation of the human
family.
	They that seek, by faith and earnest
prayer, find the light that leads to the
golden gate. They that knock with study
and faith’s assurance, have the narrow way
opened to them, and are received into com-
munion with the Infinite Father and
Mother, are permitted to enter hallowed
mansions’ to attend the school of the Pro-
phets, and, by advancing steps to reach the
school of the Gods, where they learn the
processes by which worlds are organized, by
the combining of eternal, intelligent,
obedient elements; the uses for which
worlds are called into existence; the manner
in which they are controlled, and the laws
of progression by which all beings and
animate things are perfected, and glorified
in their respective spheres.
	Students of this sense become, some
more, some less, familiar with the state of
that portion of the human family whose
varied conditions are typified by the stars.
They contemplate the intelligence, the
glory and the peace, typified by the moon,
and in progressive order this sense educates,
disciplines, enlightens, and-brings its pos-
sessor in harmony with the effulgence of
celestial light and glory as typified by the
sun. All that enter this higher glory are
heirs with Jesus Christ, our elder brother,
in the pre-existent state, to all the knowl-
edge, power, exaltation, and glory pos-
sessed by the Father.
	When through our spiritual nature we
are in communion with God, we are draw-
ing nearer and nearer to each other, and
our words and works will blend more and
more harmoniously, until earth’s dutiful
children, recognizing universal spiritual
kinship, hail the peaceful millenial dawn,
and participate in the triumphant reign of
our God and His Christ.
EXPECTATION.
	Of the advanced thinkers and diligent

[Column 3]
workers who compose the Woman's
Triennial Council much is expected. Your
labors of preparation have been arduous;
the whisperings of this sense have dis-
armed opposition, and brought you to a
large measure of victory. The thought
wave of many a prayer is wafted to you as
inspiration, and in reciprocal order the
highest expression of your combined wis-
dom must radiate and inspire receptive
souls in all the world, stimulating them to
higher hopes, and stronger activities in the
cause of more enlightened civilization, and
a more perfect understanding of divine
science, as revealed through our Sixth
Sense, or the sense of spiritual understand-
ing.
	In closing, the writer, in loving sympa-
thy, asks that increased spiritual light may
illume the pathway of the various lines of
good work represented in the Triennial
Council.
SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Feb. 1895.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the Woman Suffrage meet-
ing held February 5th, 1895, in the 14th
Ward Hall. Dr. Ferguson in the chair.
Sang “Come away,” prayer Prof. Stewart,
sang “Oh ye fair ones.” Dr. Ferguson
introduced Prof. W. M. Stewart, who in
his usual able and eloquent manner gave
his reason for being in favor of Suffrage for
women. Dr. S. B. Young was then intro-
duced by the president, he also gave some
excellent reasons why the ladies should
vote. Closing his remarks with the poem
entitled “The new star of Wyoming.”
Brother Adams of North Dakota was in-
troduced to the audience, and made a short
speech, thought all good women would
favor temperance. Committees were then
formed for the entertainment to be given on
Susan B. Anthony’s birthday. Adjourned
for two weeks.

	Minutes of the Woman Suffrage meeting
held February 19th, in the 14th Ward Hall,
Dr. Ferguson in the chair. Committees
were chosen to wait upon the delegates to
the Convention. Report read of the enter-
tainment, and other business transacted.
Adjourned for two weeks.
	
	Minutes of meeting held March 5th in
the 14th Ward Hall, Dr. Ferguson in the
chair. Sang, “In twilight’s hour.” Prayer
B. Midgley.  Sang, “Hail the sound.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
Dr. Ferguson called for reports from those
appointed to interview delegates. Ruth
M. Fox had called three times but failed to
see the gentlemen. E. M. Price found all
favorable. M. E. Irvine’s companion D.
W. Eardley had been sick, they had not
visited. M. P. Silver said all she had
visited were in favor. Dr. Ferguson had
talked with a number, advised the ladies to
visit the convention, read a letter from
Rachel Foster Avery, acknowledging
twenty dollars sent by Salt Lake County
for Susan B. Anthony’s birthday fund, also
read an address entitled “Woman,” read
at the woman’s Convention. Adjourned
for two weeks.
					M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
			Address all business communications to
					PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter
			Salt Lake City April 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCES AND CONVENTIONS.

	MANY important occurrences have taken
place since the last issue of the Exponent
worthy of special mention, and it is a
matter of regret that so little space can be
given to current matters of great moment.
It is only daily papers or large magazines
nowadays that can keep pace with even
generalities.
	On the 4th of April the General Con-
ference of the Relief Society was held in
the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
presiding. There were representative
women from nearly every stake of Zion,
and the reports were favorable and en-
couraging. In the afternoon there was a
very large congregation, though the
weather was unpropitious. The evening
session was most enjoyable; President
Joseph F. Smith attended and gave a very
eloquent and interesting address.
	The General Conference of the Church
opened in the large Tabernacle on Friday
the 5th of April and lasted three days dur-
ing which time many excellent discourses
were delivered by the Apostles, the first
Presidency and other Elders and certainly
the instructions were calculated to reach all
the spiritual needs of the people and to
benefit them temporally also. The at-
tendance was large and from all quarters
and the spirit of the meetings was uplifting
to all who listened. There seemed to be a
word in season to all whatever their circum-
stances or conditions in life might be. Ex-
hortation, instruction, encouragement, ad-
monition, all blended in a way to bless and
to promote a stronger bond of union and
of love and a greater flow of the Holy
Spirit which leads into the light eternal.
	The Constitutional Convention is still in
session, and numbers are still struggling
with varied questions, that seem difficult
for them to decide or at least to agree upon.
The majority report of the committees on
Elections and Suffrage, though it has passed
its third reading and each time a large
majority of the members have voted for it
to be a part of the Constitution, yet the
dissatisfied minority are still determined to
get it reconsidered, and want it the matter
of suffrage for women submitted as a
separate proposition. This proves to any
well-balanced mind that it is not equal
suffrage, because to be equal in suffrage
with men it must be in the Constitution. If
women get suffrage as a separate proposition
they do not come into the new state on an
equal platform. The new state will need
all its citizens, and all equally responsible.

[Column 2]
Even the men who made the minority
report on Elections and Suffrage will ac-
knowledge without doubt that Victor Hugo
was right when he said the nineteenth cen-
tury was woman’s era. But whether they
do or not, it will make no difference with
facts. “The ridicule of facts does not change
their character.” John Stuart Mill said "the
majority of the male sex cannot yet tolerate
the idea of living with an equal.” Men of
the great West are generally spoken of as
being great-souled men with broad views
and liberal opinions on all questions con-
cerning human rights, let us hope it will be
so with the members of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, and that all women as
well as all men may be accorded the same
rights and privileges in the new state.
	The numerously signed petitions asking
that the clause relating  to equal suffrage
remain in the Constitution, are from all
parts of the Territory and were there time
many more signatures could be obtained,
but it was expected the men who were
elected upon equal suffrage platforms would
give the plank place in the Constitution,
without being besieged by Memorials and
Petitions.
	We must not neglect to mention the com-
ing of Susan B. Anthony, Rev. Anna Shaw
and other distinguished women who are to
hold a Conference in this city May 13, 14
and 15, and it is to be hoped the men and
women who are so strongly opposed to
equal suffrage for Utah, will go and hear
these celebrated advocates of justice and
equality who are known throughout the
wide, wide world. Salt Lake City should
give these famous speakers a hearty wel-
come.


[Column 1]
BACK TO THE LONG AGO.
	
	As I have many and varied themes to
write upon, with small space of time for it,
the old adage often given in my copy-books
to profit from, stands out in full force before
me, “Procrastination is the thief of time.”
I must now go back to “October’s Glory,”
take you along with our party of six cousins,
in easy conveyance over hill and down dale,
through woodland and vale, with clear blue
skies above and all beneath and around
brilliant in coloring and radiant in the glory
of beautiful garments. The trees seemed
“to clap their hands and break forth into
singing,” the oak, maple ash, hickory, birch,
poplar, spruce, lofty pines, hack matacks,
with red sumach glowing like fire of the
“burning bush,” bright warm sunshine
pure, soft, breezy air floating over and
among them, inspiring all hearts with praise,
and to joyful acceptance of the Scriptural
declaration “He hath made all things
beautiful in their time.” And what more fit-
ful season, after long years, to revisit the
places and scenes of early youth once so
familiar, now in October’s glory of golden
yellow, red, brown, green, with varied tints
and shades, illuminated in gorgeous splen-
dor, gladdening body and mind with its mar-
velous beauty; and thus all the way through
towns, hamlets and villages, to and from
our dear grandparents farm, we found de-
lightful entertainments, glorious company,
ample refreshments, good accommodations
for ourselves and teams. And then to lodge
in the same bed-rooms where oftimes in
childhood I had done, and look through the
same small panes of glass and watch the
same stars as they appeared twinkling in

[Column 2]
the sky upon me, and then to rise in the
morning, and look through this old fashioned
window out upon kitchen and old time.
flower gardens, where once bees reveled in
their sweets and stored immense piles of
purest honey in their hives placed in rows
under protecting shelter built for them be-
neath the overhanging lilacs then to climb
the stairs into the old attic chambers, see
and breathe in the aromatic fragrance of
various medicinal herbs, the same as were
gathered in days long ago hung in the same
order on the great beams overhead, the
floor spread thick with golden yellow corn,
nuts, etc. As of yore impressed me to ex-
claim—has time in its flight turned back-
ward, else why am I thus confronted
with these emblems of half a century and
more? The large old barn of massive tim-
ber in which we have played “merry
frolics,” that has withstood storms heat
and colds, for more than two centuries,
collapsed, July 10th, 1894, with noise that
reverberated over the place shaking the old
farm-house like an earthquake, so that
feature, as well as saddle and dairy houses,
cider mill, long sheds, fences with gates of
entrance are removed—a nice new barn not
as commodious but sufficient for present
purposes of the farm replaces the old, so
dear in memory of childhood days.
	The interior of the “Auld House” has
undergone some alterations, the roof has
recently been now shingled, yet the whole
exterior aside from the roof, now minus of
its bright coat of former days, has a decided
wasting away appearance. Clap boards
near the foundations breaking, crumbling,
testify to its venerable age and of changes
bravely withstood through successive gen-
erations—wonderful tales, histories of facts,
tradgey and comedy, anecdotes, and inci-
dents, pathetic and humorous all having the
authority of knowledge indisputable might
be written that would make volumes of
scenes enacted within the walls, of this
ancient dwelling and surroundings. Two
of its sons reared within its walls went forth
to the battles of the Revolution, others of
another generation were in the war of 1812
and many descendants of this house-
hold in the Mexican, and our late war for
the Union. But I must not linger to re-
late doings however brave or romantic, of
our paternal fathers and mothers. I must
now take you through the once flourishing
apple orchard over the huge stone wall, up
the steep hillside pasture over boulders of
stone to the once famous “Bears Den,”
where they made their lair in security un-
til this then wilderness land, was taken set-
tled upon and cultivated into a fruitful farm
by our paternal ancestors. Here the first,
that came, shot, we are told, two large bears
and afterward with his sons exterminated
these, and other wild beasts. And here
once more we stand, after an absence of
forty years, gazing down its rocky sides in-
to its cavernous depths. We will not at-
tempt to explore them, nor walk across the
massive rock-bridge that spans the chasm
beneath; a feat often performed without fear
in childhood days—two of our party how-
ever, pass around these rocks through
jungle of brush and briar, explore this
ancient den, come out from beneath the
rock-bridge climbing up the side of the
cave as far as possible to be drawn out to
the top by strong muscular arms near the
wonderful large, black birch tree, that
seemed without other aid to grow out from
the rocks, a land mark of the place, I


[Column 1]
would have been sorry to have missed,
from its trunk I have peeled bark, and from
its branches broken twigs. It is bent
gnarled, withered, yet has not failed (I am
told) to put forth in some parts of it, bud
and leaf in its season. Ah, how many
memories of other days the sight of this old
tree brought back to me!
	But I turn and ramble alone far out over
the hill-top overlooking the place where I
first saw the light and where we once lived
many years. The spacious barn is in good
condition—the vacant spot where the house
stood that was destroyed by fire, was in
mind easily rebuilt, repeopled and abound-
ing with life as in years long past. Dear
mother was at the door, father too, as if re-
turning home many children running to
and fro, over the lawn, in the garden and
across the way where travellers paused by
the roadside for their animals to slake their
thirst in the clear waters, that constantly
flowed into a deep receptacle from a never
failing spring in the hillside above—I
fancied I heard the same rippling waters,
the sounds of flocks and herds, of insect,
bees and bird, the hum of voices then
seemed to greet me with all the old time
tenderness as I stood entranced with visions
brought out of the long ago past, until the
spell was broken, by calls for my return
where from the highest point of this rocky
hill-top, commanding an extensive view of
old farm and surrounding country we gaze
long and admiringly—finely cultivated
farms, lovely quiet homes, pasture-lands
with flocks and herds, variegated scenery,
broad swift flowing river taking its course
through meadow woodland and village,
where its water’s once turned the wheels of
busy industry, and its over flow appeared to
us as children, (before we had seen the
unrivaled waters of Niagara) a fall of tre-
mendous volume! Now we catch glimpses
of dome and spire in the distance—and far
away on the very limit of the horizon, the
church on Petersham hill. The spire and
dome of the building glows like fire neath
the sun’s golden rays that shine over, all
around in dazzling beauty on this glorious
October morning, presenting a living pic-
ture transparently beautiful! Only the
New Englander knows what sterling vir-
tues have been nurtured on these hill-farms
and what quick energy and abounding life
have flowed down from these same hillsides
into the best streams of the nation’s activity.
	The village now called Nichewaney, has
much the appearance of fifty years past
with the exception of mills removed, a new
school building replacing the old, all the
buildings are there looking as fresh (ex-
ternally at least,) as if neither cold or heat
of half, or even more than a century had
affected them; a few buildings have been
added but not enough to make any material
change. The steep factory hill has an easier
grade, sloping gradually to the river bridge,
the majestic old oak that spread its friendly
branches over us in our school-day plays
and all others who sought its friendly shade
at the top of the hill, was sacrificed to this
improvement—a land mark regretfully
missed yet I was cheered at sight of the
magnificent elm, further up the village by
the road-side, growing there before the
Declaration of Independance, and has now
attained to enormous height and breadth, its
gigantic limbs shading roadsides, lawn, and
the whole house once owned and occupied
by Col. Josiah Wheeler, War Veteran of
1812, and who kept the village store many
years, held numerous town and County

[Column 2]
offices, etc. A man much esteemed and by
the younger portion (of this, then, com-
munity) as a superior being, mostly I be-
lieve on account of the prefix to his name
as he was the only man in the place entitled
to such distinction. In these days the title
of Col. has become too numerous to be re-
garded with any great degree of reverent
veneration.
	Although this old New England Village
more outwardly a familiar aspect, I fully
realized that the life of days “Lang Syne,”
no longer existed. The old had passed
away, the young had grown old and grey
and followed with generations that live only
to murmur, “that life is but a dream soon
told.’’ I was a stranger, among a strange
people; we wandered through the old bury-
ing ground where in solitude undisturbed
the dust of our ancestor’s and others of our
kindred repose, no interments have been
made therein for more than a generation.
The massive stone wall that once surrounded
it lies prostrate on the earth, the wide black
weird looking gate of entrance gone, culti-
vated lands on two sides adjoining have now
a growth of heavy timber, mostly of pine,
which gives this isolated resting place of the
dead a somber aspect, with spirit commen-
dable after many years of neglect, trees
left to grow out of graves with undergrowth
of brush, briar tangled vines etc., have
been removed, broken stones repaired and
others reset—we lingered awhile by our
sister’s grave. The inscription name, dates,
with the beautiful verse our dear mother
had engraved thereon, is as plainly legible
as forty years gone.
	From this place looking northwest, we
behold the wooded mount, “Thripany
Morris,” belonging the Woodward estate,
from which many thousand cords of wood
have been taken and which is mournfully
associated with the death of our father.
We took different routes to and from this
ancient town, thereby affording excellent
opportunity to review this part of New
England after years of absence, we re-
turned through Nichewaney and through
the beautiful hill-farms, once familiar, now
nearly all owned or rented by foreigners,
and here I must say a real genuine Yankee
farmer, is about as scarce in this part of
New England as black pearls. We passed
through Petersham centre, a breezy height,
now, a summer resort for city dwellers, on
through Templeton, portions of Athol,
with its thriving villages, and farms, long
stretches of woodland, most enchantingly
charming; all arrayed in gorgeous splendor.
We reach the busy picturesque town of
Orange just as the golden light of day has
passed behind the western hills in splendid
glory. Here we separate, going our dif-
ferent ways, one, a descendant of our great
Uncle Seth Woodward who was all through
the Revolutionary War, has a home in Buf-
falo New York, the others (myself excepted)
reside in the Old Bay State. But the mem-
ory of those will be gratefully cherished,
who by their kindness enabled me to revisit
the places and scenes of early life in the
beautiful days of “October’s glory,”

	Someday, (Providence permitting) I may
tell you of other places of interest—visited
in New England, some of them quite noted,
famous in history; but it is hardly probable
any description given of its scenery, how-
ever picturesque or unique, of land or
water, could compare with the grandeur
and loveliness of Utah scenery, Utah, the
gem of the “Rockies,” and not even Mount

[Column 3]
Washingion or the White Granite Moun-
tains of New Hampshire, Green Mountains
of Vermont, nor the gem of Massachusetts
Mountains “Mount Holyoke, lifting itself
abruptly from the midst of a fertile and
highly cultivated valley, 1,000 feet, with
double track rail road over which to convey
visitors etc, to “Prospect House,” the most
commanding spot of the range, could ap-
proximate in sublimity to its mountains
glistening white and cold, in Mid-summer;
giant warders of vales below.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
TENAFLY, N. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	ACCORDING to previous arrangement the
Utah Woman’s Press and Reapers clubs
met at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Saturday evening March 16th, 1895. The
object was a greeting to Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, who is Honorary-president of the
Press Club, and the founder of both the
clubs mentioned, and to Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
president of the Press Club.
	Vice-president Ruth M. Fox of the Press
club presided. After the usual opening
exercises, Dr. Shipp was called upon to ad-
dress the meeting.
	The Doctor said that at that “Council of
Women” they had met some of the bright-
est women of America. There are
thousands of noble women working for the
elevation of mankind. It is a great joy to
know that woman is so busily engaged in
elevating humanity, for if woman improves
the influence will extend to all mankind.
	The papers that were read were all so
good, that at the reading of every one the
speaker thought, “well this is the best paper
that has been read.” They met many
people of classical education, and op-
portunities for the highest culture in every
way. And she felt they could have met
them as they did, if they had not been par-
ticularly blest. Mentioned the Rev. Ida
Hultin as a woman beautiful in face and
spirit. After making a speech she was re-
called three or four times. And the presi-
dent of the council smilingly referred to
her as the Prima Donna.
	Susan B. Anthony was so kind and even
motherly. She was ordinary and yet
extra ordinary. She took an interest in all
the speeches and extended her sympathy.
	In the papers, almost every subject was
touched upon. Religion, morality, dress
reform, training of children, etc.
	Mentioned as prominent among other
people Countess of Aberdeen, Lady Henry
Somerset, Frances Willard, Charlton Ed-
holm etc. Related an anecdote of the
Florence Crittenden Mission.
	Told us how Mrs. E. B. Well’s paper was
so very well received.
	The President, May Wright Sewall was
pleasant and just. Would corrrect any-
one freely and pleasantly. Mrs. Sewall
made beautiful and eloquent extempo-
raneous speeches, thereby showing her
powers of mind as well as her presence of
mind. After the Council the speaker
visited Boston, Cambridge and Plymouth
and had been charmed by historical and
other scenes.
	Mrs Wells felt those who had the privi-
lege of attending the National Council had
enjoyed an intellectual feast and superior
educational advantages and must have made
some positive advancement along all lines
of thought. Referred to the banquet on


Miss Anthony’s seventy-fifth birthday and
cordiality shown the Utah Women. Told
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs.
Avery at Somerton, Philadelphia and how
thoroughly she had appreciated the op-
portunity of seeing her in her own home
with her family, also of her visit to Mrs.
May Wright Sewall of her splendid home,
in Indianapolis describing it, and the school
residence, as also the school building, and
the Propyaelum. Mrs. Wells mentioned
several women particularly, as among the
most celebrated Mesdames May Wright
Sewall, Susan B. Anthony, Rachel Foster
Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw, Mary Lowe
Dickinson, Isabella Charles Davis, Mrs.
Sarah Mink, Caroline E. Buell and many
others. Mrs. Wells also stated that the
Council in its entirety would make an epoch,
in the history of woman surpassing any
other assembly of women that had ever
been held, also referred to the time when
she had first gone down to Washington ac-
companied by Mrs. Zina Young Williams;
also spoke of her severe disappointment
when “Aunt Zina’’ failed to come down to
the Council, felt Mrs. Young would have
made a good impression.
	After the remarks of Mrs. Wells refresh-
ments were served and the time spent in
social chat until adjournment.
		LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT REUNION.

	MARCH the 10th being the 17th anniver-
sary of the organization of the Summit Re-
lief Society, of the Parowan Stake of Zion
it was duly celebrated on the 11th, com-
mencing at 2 p. m. The meeting was
called to order by President Lette Dailey.
Singing by the choir, prayer by Bishop 
Joseph B. Dailey. An interesting pro-
gramme was rendered by the sisters of the
Relief Society interspersed with remarks by
Patriarch James Dailey, Wm. Dailey, S. C.
Hulet and Joseph H. Armstrong. An
essay by Sister Susie Armstrong, entitled
“Woman’s Influence,” being worthy of
special mention. At the close of the meet-
ing President Lette Dailey wished all the
local and visiting members of the Relief
Society with their husbands to adjourn to
her home as she wished to talk to them.
What was their surprise upon arriving
there to find three large tables spread with
the comforts of life of which seventy of the
brethren and sisters partook. After which
all returned to the hall to enjoy themselves
in dancing, refreshments being served dur-
ing the evening. All went home feeling
that the day was one long to be remember-
ed.					A. M. DALLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S INFLUENCE.

	EVER since the days of mother Eve;
woman’s influence has been manifest for
the advancement or retrogression of the
people of the earth. Even Eve herself is
an example of this, as through her in-
fluence over Adam he partook of the for-
bidden fruit thereby bringing upon them-
selves the displeasure of the Almighty and,
causing what is called the fall of man.
And so it has been from that time until the
present; woman by her influence has been
more or less responsible, for the conditions
of society. Let us follow the different
spheres and positions of a woman’s life and

[Column 2]
note the influence they have over those
with whom they are associated.
	We will first view her as a sister. What
a beautiful thing is a true sister’s love and
devotion to her brothers and sisters. How
she watches with keen interest their ad-
vancement. And if misfortune overtake a
brother or sister or if they be weak and
wayward a sister may with love and kind-
ness accomplish that which parents may
have found almost impossible in reclaiming
the weak and wayward, or smoothing the
path of misfortune. Or if she be selfish
and indifferent to the interests of those
with whom she is associated; how much
sorrow and heartache she may cause; and
instead of being a help and encouragement,
her influence will tend to discourage and
lead the weak and wayward from the path
of duty into sin and shame. And what a
joy and consolation to parents is a dutiful,
loving, and devoted daughter. How she
watches with tender solicitude their every
interest and tries with her utmost power to
lighten mother’s burden or to smooth the
furrows of care from father’s brow. And,
if there should be younger brothers and
sisters, she will strive to win their love and
esteem and set an example that is worthy
of imitation. Such a daughter will exert
such an influence over all with whom she
comes in contact that will prove to be a
lasting good to herself and a constant joy
and consolation to her parents.
	And then there comes the sphere of wife-
hood; who but the husband can realize the
influence the wife exerts over his being.
And if she be a wife in the truest sense
she is ever willing to smooth the rough
places and share the many burdens of life.
And if poverty overtake him it is she who
endeavors to brighten the dull places and
make things which would seem almost
unbearable to appear as only small trials.
	But, should she be the opposite and al-
ways look on the dark side of life and be
forever complaining, and fault finding, how
soon would he partake of that spirit more
or less or finding such a spirit uncongenial
to his own he would soon leave the place
that should have the most attraction for him
to find pleasure wherever it could be found.
	And last but not least in the sphere of
womanhood is that holy one called mother.
What sacred and divine thoughts that name
inspires. In whatever condition in life that
sacred name indicates one who is the ideal
administering angel of our early infancy,
the comfort of our childhood, the guiding
star of our youth and the prop and stay of
our more mature years. Even in old age
men will look back to the time when
mother’s influence had saved them from
many mis-steps that would have been taken
had it not been for her gentle and wise in-
fluence. And so a mother may use her
influence whether it be for good or bad and
the result will be according to the seed she
has sown.
	So it is in every phase in life, be our
station high or low, rich or poor, bond or
free, woman by her influence may be
capable of doing much toward the perfect-
ing of the human family.
			SUSIE D. ARMSTRONG.


[Column 1]
SOCIAL PURITY.
	
	[An essay written for the W. H. P. R. 
class Conference at Logan, Oct. 20, 1894.]
	WHAT is social purity? Purity among 
the sexes. What a desirable condition. 

[Column 2]
Shall we ever live to witness it? Shall we
ever live to behold the day when people
will mingle together in society, and the one
not thrive at the expense of the others hap-
piness? Shall we ever live to see the day
when the deceiver shall be shunned? Shall
we ever see the day when defenseless wo-
men and children can pass our thorough
fares in safety?
	When will the day arrive when we will
be greeted by only pure and elevating
language? When can child-like confidence
be established? When! Oh when? Why
are the millions of teachers so lame in
bringing about that desirable condition?
Such are the questions of the thinking ob-
server. We hear voices crying from all
sides—Education! Education!
	Truly education will remedy these evils,
but what kind of education? The thous-
ands of colleges and universities under
steady operation—have yet failed to give to
us and to humanity at large, those desirable
conditions. In all their eagerness we only
see an increase in these evils instead of see-
ing them eradicated. Where then is the
remedy; in the family, in the home, where
the foundation of human existence takes
its existence beginning. Where husband
and wife only beget children as a result of
admiration for the regulation of a divine
Creator. When the strictest economy is
practiced between husband and wife, in re-
gard to purity in language, in appearance
and in action.
	Now to return to prenatal influence where
the instructing should begin. Some say
“how?” Simply by reading good books,
and associating with pure and refined people
thereby presenting to your child a picture
of grandeur and purity, and just as sure as
can be this will instil into babe a desire for
purity.
	On the other hand if you do not seek
company that elevates and ennobles you fall
into that kind of society which depresses
and destroys. And as it is good society
that blesses it is better to have none at all
than mingle with bad companions, pure
minds and morals will be dragged down or
lifted up according to quality and character
of society.
	So mothers do be the sole companion of
your child just as long as you can, be its
instructor in regard to laws that govern its
body, especially the organs of generation,
give a pure idea of them, teach that they
were not given for the mere gratification of
man, but for a grand purpose and point out
that purpose just as grandly as you can, and
every child will feel proud of its mission.
Some mothers think this subject too deli-
cate to speak to boys about, if you feel that
way procure books treating on this subject
and place in their hands. I know of one
woman who adopted this plan and presented
her son with a book with compliments and
an expressed wish from her as his mother,
that he read it carefully. She succeeded so
grandly that I never forgot it.
	One point I wish to make emphatic, that
is,—that a man void of virtue is just as vile
and no better than an unchaste woman.
But let such a man go among rich ladies
and put on a polished appearance, and he is
at once recognized as a “gentleman.” It
is a false criterion that puts a greater stigma
on woman than on man.
	Well my dear sisters this subject is so
broad and contains so many striking ideas,
were I able to portray them, but if we live
as purely as we know how, and rule our 
households under such conditions, we can


deliver to society suitable material to build
up the common structure called “Social
Purity.” A son coming from such a home
will not deceive his fellowman nor defile
his neighbors daughter, we will not pick
pockets nor rob houses at night, he will not
use vulgar and impure language,, he will
by his actions gain universal respect and
confidence. But how few of us realize the
responsibilities placed upon mothers, and
how many improve the opportunities we
have of molding the characters of our
children. Of course the child enherits as
much from the father as from the mother,
but to us mothers alone is intrusted the
modification of that inheritance. Keep
them as innocent children just as long as
possible, don’t make them think that they
must be men and women, but impress on
their minds that they are pure home children,
then you will find the manly men and wo-
manly women the world today stands in
need of.
KATIE HALLADAY CRAGAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EQUAL SUFFRAGE SECTION.

[In the Convention, April 5th.]
	RICHARDS of Salt Lake, moved to adopt
the original section, and parliamentary
sparring and fillbustering and attempts to
adjourn at once commenced, but the gentle-
man from Salt Lake was successful and se-
cured a roll call vote on the passage of the
equal suffrage clause. It was as follows:
	Ayes—Allen, Anderson, Barnes, Boyer,
Brandley, Buys, Call, Cannon, Chidester,
Christainsen, Clark, Coray, Corfmar, Crane, 
Creer, Cunningham, Driver, Eichnor,
Eldredge, Emery, Engberg, Evans, of
Weber, Farr, Francis, Gibbs, Goodwin,
Hammond, Hart, Halliday, Heybourne,
Howard, Hughes, Hyde, Ivins, Johnson,
Kimball, of Salt Lake, Kimball, of Weber,
Lambart, L. Larson, Lemmon, Lewis,
William Lowe, Peter Lowe, Low of Cache, 
Maeser, Maloney, Maughan, McFarland,
Miller, Morris, Murdock of Beaver, Mur-
dock of Wasatch, Murdock of Summit,
Partridge, Peters, Peterson, of Grand,
Peterson, of Sanpete, Preston, Raleigh,
Richards, Ricks, Robertson, Robinson, of
Kane, Robinson of Wayne, Shurtliff, Snow,
Squires, Strevell, Symons, Thompson,
Thoresen, Thorne, Thurman, Wells,
Whitney—75.
	Noes—Haynes, Hill, Page, Pierce, Rob-
erts, Ryan, Sharp, Spencer, Stover, Van
Horne—14.
	Absent—Adams, Evans, of Utah, Jolley,
Kearns, Kerr, C. P. Larsen, Moritz,
Nebeker, Thatcher, Varian, Warrum,
Williams—12.
	Excused—Bowdle, Button, Cushing,
Green, James—5.
	The Convention then adjourned until
Monday at 10 a. m.


[Column 1]
SILK  ASSOCIATION MEETING.

	THE Utah Woman’s Silk Association met
Thursday, April 4th, in the Assembly Hall,
Mrs. Salisbury in the chair. A large num-
ber of members and interested listeners
were present. The secretary’s report was
read and accepted.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to Washington in the in-
terest of the silk industry. She found sena-
tors and congressmen pretty well informed
with regard to the industry. A bill had

[Column 2]
passed the Senate at the last session of Con-
gress which provided for the establishment
of five silk experiment stations, but had
been lost sight of in the House, Mr. Cannon,
our present delegate, had promised to pre-
pare a bill to establish a silk experiment
station. Members of Congress assured
Mrs. Wells that such a bill properly pushed
would pass both houses. The paper which
Mrs. Wells read before the National Coun-
cil of Women gave a brief account of the
silk industry in Utah and aroused much in-
terest. At Atlanta Mrs. Wells spoke be-
fore the Women’s Board of Managers of the
Utah silk industry.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of encouragement to silk producers.
Let people who have little to do undertake
something of this kind, and they will be
happy and at the same time add to the re-
sources of the Territory. The quality of
our silk is so good that we would need but
few garments made of it. The children
could help in the care of the worms and
the young ladies can learn to reel.
	Mrs. Margaret Csine spoke of the suc-
cess of the women who raised cocoons last
year in St. George. They made about five
hundred dollars from cocoons. A fortune
cannot be made from the silk industry im-
mediately. No one would expect to take
up any trade or business and master all its
details at once. One must have experience
in any trade before it can become remunera-
tive. The cocoon to be of any value must
be of the best quality. No food must be
used for the worms except the mulberry
leaves. The worms, it was true, would
thrive on lettuce leaves or currant leaves,
but the object was not to raise worms but to
produce silk. The silk produced from any
kind of food but mulberry leaves is worth-
less. If the people of Utah do not take
up this industry others will do so. There
have already been inquiries from Italians,
Japanese and Hindoos as to the price of land
and the chances of success for a silk rais-
ing colony. The people of Utah should
keep this industry in their own hands.
The woolen mills of the Territory use every
year thousands of dollars worth of silk fill-
ing. We must learn to reel and keep this
money at home.
	Mrs F. S. Richards related some interest-
ing experiences in silk culture. She be-
lieved it a duty for women to take pride in
home made silk and home made clothes.
The women can in this practical way make
our Territory prosperous.
	Mrs. Ann Woodbury, of St. George, re-
ported that last year a good many pounds of
cocoons were raised in Washington county,
and this year still more will be raised.
The price realized for cocoons was about one
dollar a pound.
	Miss Harrison spoke of the art of reel-
ing, declaring it to be an easy one to learn.
She would gladly teach others what she had
learned. One can easily reel half a pound
of silk a day.
	Mrs. Gilmer advocated a systematic effort
to secure a market for home raised cocoons
and silk.
	The president promised that the matter
should receive immediate attention.
	Mrs. Salisbury read the articles which
might be exhibited at the Cotton exposition
at Atlanta. It would be most important to
make a good showing there. All articles
should be submitted to the committee ap-
pointed to take charge of the exhibit.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the association

[Column 3]
make an exhibit of Utah silk at Atlanta
The motion was unanimously carried.
	In response to a question with regard to a
supply of eggs, the president announced
that Miss Harrison has Japanese eggs for
sale at $2.50 a card, each card containing
thirty or forty thousand eggs.
	Adjourned to meet at the call of the
president.
CORINNE M. ALLEN, Sec.


APPRECIATION AND THANKS.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, April 5, ’95.
	HON. J. F. Chidester, Chairman; A. S.
Anderson, Joseph E. Robinson, Parley
Christensen, Peter Lowe, James D. Mur-
dock, Chester Call, Andreas Engberg, A.
H. Raleigh, William Howard, F. A. Ham-
mond and S. R. Thurman:
	Honorable gentlemen of the majority re-
port of the committee on electlons and
rights of suffrage:
	The equal suffrage memorial committee
in special session and by unanimous vote,
desire to express their profound apprecia-
tion and gratitude for the wise, statesmanly
and just measure which you have reported
to the constitutional convention; and for
the ability, steadfastness and sleepless vigi-
lance with which you have assisted on the
floor of the convention in expounding, de-
fending and conducting to a successful issue
your opportune and faithful provisions on
civil and political rights of men and women.
And with you we wish to commend as lov-
ers of justice all those praiseworthy men
whose voices and votes contributed to the
final result, with Richards, Whitney,
Evans, Cannon, Murdock, Ricks, Hart,
Ivins, Snow, Robinson, Allen, Miller, Farr,
Preston, Maeser, Wells, and all the other
noble delegates who have borne testimony
to their willingness to accord equal rights,
we feel in duty bound to extend these con-
gratulations on behalf of the thousands of
Utah women who are keenly alive to the
unspeakable importance of the legislation
thus achieved in relation to the status of
women, the welfare of the state and the
progress of civilization.
	We realize the enormous difficulties which
yon have been called upon to surmount;
and we honor you for your unflinching in-
tegrity and your unswerving devotion to
the principles of liberty in framing the fun-
damental law for the coming state of Utah.
on which our proudest hopes are sacredly
enshrined, now that the woman mind and
heart and soul are fully incorporated in its
sovereignty.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL.
	Chairman of Standing Committee on
Suffrage Memorial.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	President of the Territorial Suffrage
Association.
			EMILY S. RICHARDS.
Chairman of Memorial Committee.
			CORA G. CARLETON.
				Secretary pro tem.


TESTIMONY OF MRS. BASSETT.

	AT the Semi-monthly meeting of ladies
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Salt
Lake City, Sister Mary E. Bassett, presi-
dent of the Second Ward Relief Society,
in referring to the prevalent views of pro-


fanity and intemperance, which have so in-
creased of late in our midst, related her
early experience in the cuhrch.
	She said she was born in Missouri and
was a little girl when the Saints were driven
from their homes by an infuriated and
and bloodthirsty mob. She afterwards with
her parents found a home at Nauvoo and
remained in that city and vicinity until
again by mob violence compelled to seek a
home farther west. Among the earlier
emigrants she crossed the great desert
plains, and after suffering from want and
privation, settled in this, then, wild and
barren valley, during all those trying ex-
periences, and while encountering all these
trials and difficulties, she never once heard
the name of Deity profaned, and not until she
had grown to womanhood had she seen an
intoxicated man or woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WHEREAS, In the dispensation of Divine
Providence our esteemed co-laborer, one of
the Vice-Presidents of the Territorial Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association, Caroline E. Dye
departed this life February 26th, 1895, we
deem it expedient that we in some public
manner express our appreciation of her
many good qualities and of her efficient ser-
vices Therefore be it:
	Resolved: That the Utah Woman’s Suf-
frage Association commend the self-sacrific-
ing devotion of our loved friend to the cause
of purity, equal justice, and religious in-
tegrity. Mrs. Dye was ever discreet,
liberal and progressive. She was eminently
social, pleasing and considerate in manner.
	Resolved, That we deeply condole with
the family and with the community of which
Mrs. Dye formed so lovable and important a
part.
	Resolved, That we venerate her mem-
ory, and commend the amiable and helpful
example of our loved friend and sister.
					Sarah M. Kimball.


A WORD TO THOSE WHO ARE IN-
TERESTED IN THE SILK
CULTURE.

	I HAVE been asked by individuals of
this and other cities, my opinion of the
best method of raising food for silk worms.
Numerous questions have been asked in
regard to this matter and some ladies have
asked if the leaves of currant bushes,
burdock, cabbage and lettuce, and other
vegetables on small shrubs can be used with
any good results.
	I say emphatically No. Nothing must
be used except mulberry leaves and these
must be new, tender and rich.
	The first consideration in the growth of
silk worms is food, which, as I have said
before must be the finest mellow leaves,and
after one is sure of their leaves, then hatch
the worms.
	These leaves can be obtained by first
trimming the old trees very close, which
causes the leaves to grow thicker upon the
branches and much richer with sap.
	Better results will be obtained by treating
the old trees in this manner, than by letting
them remain in the old bushy state.
	After trimming the old trees, take the
slips and cut to about eighteen inches long,
and plant in the bottom and against one
side of a ditch eight inches deep; the slips
about two feet apart and with one or more


buds in the soil, and two or more buds
above the top of the ditch. This manner
protects the roots from the direct rays of
the sun. 
	The ditches must be kept continually
moist, not wet, for too much water will
ruin the slips and cause them to rot.
	Do not depend upon slips until the
second year, by which time the leaves will
be thick and rich, and the trees will grow
to a heighth of from three and a half to
five feet. This also saves climbing trees
and children can gather the leaves as readily
as older persons.
	Keep both old and young trees trimmed,
not too much but enough to cause the leaves
to become brittle and moist.
					ELLA PYPER.


EX-GOVERNOR BRAYMAN DEAD.

	KANSAS CITY, Feb. 27.—Gen. Mason
Brayman, aged 81 years, ex-governor of
Idaho, the oldest Mason in the United
States, and former associate in legal practice
with Abraham Lincoln, died here today at
the home of his son-in law, Theodore
Gowdy, of Bright’s disease. The body was
taken to Ripon, Wis., to be interred by the
side of the deceased’s wife.
	Gen. Brayman was born in 1813 in
Buffalo, N. Y. In 1835 he was admitted
to the bar. He then went to Louisville,
where he edited a paper and practiced law.
He alternated between the two professions,
obtaining eminence in both.
	In 1842 he removed to Springfield, Ill.,
and began the practice of law. While in
Springfield he was a neighbor of Lincoln,
and was associated with him in many a case.
The intimacy begun then continued until
Lincoln’s death.
	Gov. Brayman was one of the men sent to in-
vestigate the troubles in Nauvoo after the exodus,
his wife went with him, both of them have
stated to the writer the sympathy they felt for the
sufferings, and hardships of our people at that
time and that they could never forget the scenes
they witnessed.—ED.


IN MEMORIAM.

	FROM the Utah County Board of officers of Silk
Association, who desire to express their deep
respect, love and appreciation of the life and
labors so exemplary verified in our beloved Sis-
ter Sarah B. Saunders, who departed this life in
Provo, March 31st, 1895, aged sixty four years,
and nine months, after an illness of three weeks
caused by paralysis, and who held the position of
Vice President in this association for eight years.
	Resolved that we honor and cherish her many
virtues and Christian spirit for truly peace and
charity covered her whole being as a mantle and
beamed from her pure countenance and in her
death we lose an indefatigable and clever work-
er in silk. In the incipiency of this organization,
she persistently persevered in weaving handker-
chiefs from very crude material upon a home
improvised loom her last effort was in weaving
over forty yards of silk from which our flag is
made, she was very desirous this industry should
be successfully and permanently established and
lent her best energies to the same. And while
we shall miss her we realize she has gone to her
reward after having led a good and faithful life, to
meet those gone before, may those who remain
follow her worthy example and ever remember
the love she evinced for them.
	Resolved that we publish this tribute of esteem,
send a copy to the family and place it upon our
record.
					M. A. TILL, President.
	SARAH GOODMAN, Vice Prest., in behalf of
the board.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Lydia Laura Lewis. It is with
sincere regret, and heartfelt sorrow that we have


to record the death of our beloved sister an<d>
companion, Lydia Lauretta Lewis, who departe
this life February 22nd, A. D. 1895, at Oxfor
Idaho, after a short but painful illness
peritonitis, being sick only eight days, July 10th
1868. She was the beloved wife of William A.
Lewis, who is left with three small children
to mourn their sad loss. Sister Lewis was a pure,
and loving wife, a kind and indulgent mother, and
a faithful Latter-day Saint, she was an earnest
worker in the Relief Society of the Ox-
ford Ward, being the secretary of the same.
Now, we the officers and members of the
Relief Society of Oxford, Idaho, desire to ex-
press our deep and lasting sympathy for, and sin-
cerely condole with the bereaved family in the
loss of one, who, by her noble and exemplary
life, was endeared to us all. Therefore we bow in
humble submission to the Divine will of Him.
“Who tempers the wind to the shorn Lamb,”
and pray that the comforting influence of God’s
Holy Spirit may bring sweet con[-]olation to the
bereaved ones in this their great affliction.

	They’ve lain you dear one down to rest,
		Whom God has called from earth away.
	Gone to enjoy that Heavenly rest,
		She heard the “call” and could not stay. 
	The parting filled your hearts with grief
		So hard to lose the one you love,
	Her sojourn here on earth was brief,
		Her home is with the just, above.
	She fain would tarried here on earth
		With husband, parent, children dear,
	Our sorrowing hearts are filled with dearth
		Because we could not keep her here.
	And when the cruel shaft was hurled
		And death, your loving wife did take,
	And darling mother from the world,
		It seemed as though your hearts must break.
	May God above in mercy hear
		Our prayers, and consolation give
	To friends and kindred sorrowing near
		And teach us Father how to live.
	That when our earth’s work here is o’er
		We may be called to Heaven above
	And join the dear one gone before.
		And dwell with her in endless love, 
	There no more parting, pain, or tears,
		No sorrows to disturb our rest.
	For God will banish all our fears
		In realms above, home of the blessed.
‘Blow gently ye wild winds, our darling’s asleep,
	She’s resting at last in her narrow bed,
Disturb not her slumbers, but soft requiems keep.
	O’er the grave of our loved one, our beautiful
		dead.”


Salt Lake School Of Obstetries
and Nursing.
	A NUMBER of students from this school
passed examinations before the Utah
Medical Board of Examiners on the first of
January and received licenses to practice
Obstetrics. Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp will com-
mence a Summer Class on the sixth of May
in the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
Hall. The terms for entire course is ten
dollars. Books six dollars. Those desir-
ing further information address 34 S. 7 East
St.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MAY 1, 1895.		No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Revolutionary Types Of Women Of The Re-
public—Kate Brownlee Sherwood. Arbor Day—
Sarah J. Elliott. A Word From Castle Dale—
Caroline A. Larsen. Ex Governor Thomas. Kate-
Field’s Opinion. Relief Society Conference—
E. B. Wells. R. S. Reports. W. H. P. R. Class
—Mary Young. Parowan Items—E. Crane Wat-
son. Woman Suffrage Column—Minnie Adams
Party At Lynne—Sarah A. Thomas. Notes And
News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Equal Suffrage In The Constitu
tion. The Coming of Miss Anthony. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—The Best—E. T. My Garden—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Of Thee I Dreamed—
—Hyacinth. The Explosion—Amy E. Cook.


THE BEST.

YOU ask me when I loved the best
	After twenty or before.
I’ll take a moment for retrospect
	And view my Life’s Loves o’er.
My child-hood’s loves, the first for mother,
	The loves for sister and for brother—
Then the maiden’s love,
	For the lover that came to woo,
And the wife’s love, when I left
	The old life for a new.
They were all true loves,
	 That will live forever and aye,
That will not perish as earthly things
	That fade and pass away;
The best of loves, true and sincere,
	Came to me ere my twentieth year
But after twenty the crown of all
	Came to my life at my baby’s call.
								E.T.


[Column 1]
MY GARDEN.

IT is time now to plant my garden.
	This morning I stepped outside,
And a warm wind gently blowing
	From the south-land far and wide,
Came whispering softly ’round me,
	“The blue birds and robins are here,
The sparrows are building their nests,and
	There’s nothing whatever to fear.”

Then I went where my last year’s flowers
	Had scattered their seeds around.
And already the eager leaflets
	Were pushing above the ground;
And on vines late bowed with snow drifts
	The leaf buds with warmth were swelling
And high in the tree tops joyous birds
	Their riotous joy were telling.

And everything seemed to say, “Come out
	Leave your window’s Easter lilies,
Come out in the hills and see what waits
	Where each crystal, rippling rill is,
Come take us cowslips out of the damp
	And the ferns from out the shadows,
We violets and sweet buttercups
	From out the spreading meadows.
Come take us blue bells from the side
	Of mountain slopes so lonely,
We’ll bloom for you and bless your care
	With odors for you only.
And if you will, the birds you love
	Will surely, singing follow
From out the deep and rocky glades,
	And every grassy hollow.

[Column 2]
E’en while you sleep, we, all awake
	While hours of might are going,
Like fairy tale, will softly work
	Some charm for morning’s showing.
Ingratitude for care bestowed
	Is not in floral natures,
Nor murmurs of dull discontent,
	As come from human creatures.

Come, set us by your city plants
	And e’en we simple daisies,
Their glowing colors will offset
	By our own modest graces;
And o’er your roses vivid bloom
	And glowing beds of pansies,
Our feathered soloists shall sing
	Your praise in sweetest stanzas.

Come, bring the wild clematis home
	Down from the Weber river,
'Twill match Virginia creeper’s green
	And fairy white wreaths give her
Bring rushes from the Jordan’s side
	Where once you went a-riding,
And columbines from City Creek
	in rocky fastness hiding.

And down among your hot house plants
	Find place for beds of mosses,
The pampas grass will shield them well,
	The while her plumes she tosses;
And stately lilacs pink and white
	Will make no proud complaining,
For humming birds coquetting ’round
	Will soothe the least disdaining.

Then when you’ve planted these and more;
	(Nor mignonette forgetting,)
Come when the weary day is done
	And moonlight’s softly setting
Your Garden’s picture framed in dusk
	And birds are hushed in slumbers;
Come, sit with those you love, and list
	To music’s gentle numbers.

Come, and thy soul led gently on
	To rest and poet’s dreaming,
The sense of bliss thy toil hath wrought
	Shall real be-not seeming,
And they who gather ’round thee then
	Shall learn the worth of beauty,
And by their presence at its shrine
	Praise love made fair through duty.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 2nd, 1895.


REVOLUTIONARY TYPES OF WO-
MEN OF THE REPUBLIC.

[Read, at the National Council of Women,
Washington, D. C.]
	THE women of the Republic are the
direct heritors of the women of the Revolu-
tion. All talk of a new woman is a mere
fable. There is no new woman.
	Ever and always it is the same woman;
the woman who went forth from Eden with
never a flimsy excuse upon her lips; the
woman who sang thepaeons of the Exodus
the woman who spins among her maidens
while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman
who proves to her Roman neighbors the
redeeming power of Christianity upon a
husband by showing the healed wound up-
on her arm; the woman who launched the
bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on
the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman
who made the homespun suit for the in-
augural of her husband as first President
of the Republic; the woman who taught
that President, when yet a little lad, that it
is better to trust in the Lord than to put
confidence in princes.
	Blessed womanhood of the world! With-
out it earth would be a howling wilderness,
such as Dante saw and was afraid.
	Behold the women of the Revolution!
They roll the logs beside their husbands to
build their rude cabins; they sow, they reap,
they card and spin and make the garments
of the household; they rear rosy sons and
daughters; they teach them the Sermon on
the Mount—reverence for holy things, re-
spect for authority; courage, reliance, self-
control; but, above all, that it is the right
of every soul to be free to follow the dic-
tates of conscience, and that resistance to
tyrants is obedience to God.
	When the great conflict comes they are
ready, and when the husband and father
and the older sons join the patriot army
they gather their little ones around them,
and their faith and fortitude hold them true,
fleeing now from the hostile savages on the
wild frontier, now from the the harrying
Hessians scou ing through farms and ham-
lets, but oftener with busy wheel and
loom and kneading-board hoarding their
resources, their struggling country’s needs.
	Martha Washington kept thirteen spin-
ning-wheels running at Mount Vernon, to
make clothing for men, women, and child-
ren. Women in the towns banded them-
selves together to wear homespun, to give
up laces and frills of foreign make—just as
men gave up their ruffled shirts and their
broadcloth and their silken hose. And let
it stand forever to the credit of the women
of the Revolution that, in the darkest
hours of the struggle for independence,
when plottings and conspiracies were under-
mining the influence of Washington and
tying the hands of the Continental Con-
gress, they never lost their confidence and 
courage, but fed, clothed, and inspired
with never-failing hope the barefoot patri-
ots of Trenton and Valley Forg .
	John Quincy Adams, in a speech before
the United States Congress, asserting the
rights of women to petition on political
subjects, said, “The voice of history
speaks, trumpet-tongued, of the daring and
intrepid spirit of patriotism burning in the 
bosom of the woman of that day.” Yet
when we search for facts concerning wo-
man’s part in the history of the Revolu-
tion, it is like culling flowers by the
flashes of midnight lightning. Washington
Irving, the beloved, has not so much as a
word even for Martha Washington’s work
at Mount Vernon.
	As in all times and nations, the women
of the Revolution must be studied chiefly
through the deeds of their husbands and 
fathers, in the reflected light of their sons
and daughters. They were the supporting
columns of the Revolution, investing the
patriot army as the gods of Olympus did
he contending hosts of Troy.


[Column 1]
Of all the men of the Revolution who
signed the Declaration of Independence,
there is but one who was early orphaned
and without a patriot mother but he was
early wedded to a woman who was wife
and mother in one in all that was strong
and sweet and wise and helpful and self-
sacrificing. The mothers of Washington
and Adams and Jefferson were especially
great and a historian of the period says,
“If the Adamses were more pronounced
patriots than the Dickenses, it was because
the women of the family were less afraid
of the executioner’s axe.”
	Whether among the exiled Scotch-Irish
of North Carolina, the persecuted Catholics
of Maryland, forbidden to teach their
children in their own schools, in a colony
they had founded on religious toleration,
the Quakers and Huguenots and Palatin-
ates of Pennsylvania, the freedom-loving
Hollanders of New York, or the Puritans
of New England, the history of the women
of the Revolution is deep graven with the
deeds of men on the foundation-stone of the
Republic.
	Education in those days began at the
mother’s knee the object lessons were
example and precept rather than book and
rule In Jefferson’s resolve never to en-
gage, while in public office, in any enter-
prise to improve his fortune, is reflected the
brave mother, Mary Randolph, who taught
her children to live the songs of freedom
she sang to them so sweetly beside the
blazing log fires of old Virginia.
	George Washington inherited his military
genius from his father through a long line
of Norman warriors; from his mother his
indomitable will, his imperious temper, his
endurance, his practical insight into the
affairs of men. When, allured by the
spirit of adventure, he was about to enter
the British Navy, she turned his attention
to civil engineering, through which he was
trained for the rigors of a seven years’ war.
	His faith in the triumph of right and
sublime modesty in success was illustrated
in his mother when Lafayette called upon
her, after Cornwallis’s surrender, to con-
gratulate her upon the victories of her son
—“I am not surprised at what George has
done; he always was a good boy.”
	Washington’s reverence for his mother
was shown when he hastened to her side
upon his election as first President of the
Republic. “Go, George,” was her good-
bye, ‘‘fill the destiny Heaven has assigned
you you have your mother s blessing now
as in the past. You will see me no more.”
And the hero of the continents laid his
head on his mother’s breast and wept like
a child.
	Show me your ideal woman of the Revo-
lution and I will show you the woman of
which she was the prototype. Conditions
change—womanhood never!
	Do you tell me of Elizabeth Schuyler,
wife of Alexander Hamilton, the Nestor
of the Revolution, his counselor, secretary,
compiler of his records, who preserved the
manuscripts of 1775—1804. acquired by
the government in 1849,and which brought
to light the true history of revolutionary
events?
	Then, I will tell you of Jessie Benton
Fremont, wife of the great “Pathfinder,”
who led his famishad men over the snow-
capped Rockies to richer conquest than did
Hannibal crossing the Alps. I will tell
you how a brave young daughter of a
United States Senator gave up the pleasures
of the capital to follow the fortunes of a

[Column 2]
fearless explorer; to cheer him in his
perilous campaigns of exploration, in the
savage conflicts of the political arena, on
the sanguine field of battle, keeping his re-
cords, compiling his reports, preserving his
memoirs for the grateful day to come.
	Do you tell me of Hannah Adams, the
woman of higher education, the first Ameri-
can woman to make literature a profession,
whose work on the religions of the world
gave her precedence in England overall
the men of letters of America?
	Then I will tell you of Maria Mitchell,
walking among the stars, leading the
scientists of the world, winning the medals
of kings and potentates.
	Do you point out the woman who has
taken upon herself holy vows, Elizabeth
Bollinger Collins, stirring up her followers
to purity of life, and exemplifying in her
conduct the truths she committed to others?
	Then I will tell you of Lucretia Mott,
persecuted for righteousness’ sake the
purest, sweetest, whitest soul in all the
swelling retinue of women who emulate
her virtues and carry on her work.
	Do you tell me of her whose blessed
mission it is to "cheer and comfort and
command?” Of Harriet Chew, whom
Washington chose as a companion when he
sat for Gilbert Stuart’s celebrated portrait,
because, as he tells us, “her genial conver-
sation will give my countenance its most
agreeable expression” lovely and excellent
Harriet Chew, to whom we owe that per-
petual peace upon the benignant face of
Washington!
	Then I will tell you of Harriet Dane,
that beautiful spirit of light flashing
through the sombre shadows of Buchanan’s
administration or of that marvel of the
World's Fair era, Bertha Honore Palmer,
winning the plaudits of two continents by
the imperial power of womanly graces.
	Do you tell me of Ann Gooch, of Virginia,
mother of the great Thomas L. Benton,
who taught her son to be pure in his life
and habits as a girl who in all his long
public life, when the standard of manhood
was trailed lower than now never drank,
smoked, or gambled because he promised
his mother never to do so?
	Then I will tell you of Lucy Webb
Hayes, holding to her convictions through
storms of calumny and ridicule, never to
place the wine-cup on a table of her serv-
ing; Lucy Webb Hayes, whose smile was a
benediction, whom men loved, women
praised, and little children, rising up,
called blessed.
	Do you tell me of ‘‘Mother” Bailey,
searching for the wounded among the mass-
acred at Fort Griswold, bringing the wife
and the child to receive the last blessing of
the dying patriot?
	I will tell you of “Mother” Bickerdyke,
on the battlefield at midnight, holding
down her lantern to the faces of the dead,
lest, perchance, some poor wounded boy
had been left by the stretcher-bearer to die
alone and uncomforted.
	Do you tell me of Sarah Franklin Bache,
daughter of Benjamin Franklin, minister-
ing with her own hands to the sick and
wounded in the Philadelphia hospitals,
collecting food and money and medicine,
directing twenty-two hundred women in
the sewing rooms, making garments for
Washington’s half-clad army, yet withal
the helpful mother of a brood of little
children, and the exemplar of domestic
virtues held up by Marquis de Chastillux to
the women of France?

[Column 3]
	I will tell you of the deeds of Dorothea
Dix, of Mary A. Livermore, of Clara Bar-
ton, of the women innumerable of Boston,
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Cin-
cinnati, Chicago, of the whole mighty
North of the aid societies and sanitary
commissions and the millions of dollars
they raised and expended in time of war
of the homes they have founded, the hos-
pitals they have built, the hosts they have
comforted and assisted since the dawn of
peace.
	Yes, and I will tell you of the women of
the South of their hardships and priva-
tions in the cause they believed to be right
of the sacrifices they made, beyond the
sacrifices of the women of the North, be-
cause of their isolation and lack of means
—sacrifices reflecting undying splendor up-
on the courage and endurance and faith of
the womanhood of America.
	Do you tell me of that strong woman of
the judicial head and the gentle heart,
Abagail Adams, first American patriot to
declare for independence, first to demand
better care for women in the laws of the
Republic that grand woman, maligned by 
pretty politicians, scorned by the ignorant
and tyrannical.
	I will tell you of Lydia Maria Child, the
first American to write a book demanding
the emancipation of the slave, and press
the rights of women over whose bier
Wendell Phillips said, “She was the kind
of woman one would, choose to represent
woman's entrance into broader life—modest,
womanly, sincere, solid, real, loyal, to be
trusted, equal to affairs and yet above them,
a companion with the password of every
science and all literature.”
	Beautiful are the women of the Revolu-
tion in the reflected light of their daughters.
Lucretia Mott, chosen by the United States
humanitarians to represent the Republic in
the World’s Anti-Slavery Society in Lon-
don, denied a seat because she was a wom-
an, and raising a storm of indignation
which has opened the schools and colleges
and conventions of the world to women.
	Jane Gray Swisshelm, whose printing-
office was mobbed in Pittsburg and its con-
tents thrown in the river because she de-
manded the repeal of the old chattel laws
in Pennsylvania relating to women and
children, thus starting an agitation that led
to humane legislation. Lucy Stone, howled
down by a mob in New York, yet living to
see the day when she was carried in the
arms of that magnificent army of women,
of whose cause she was the pioneer, at the
World’s Fair Congress of Women. Julia
Dent Grant, going down with the general
of the armies under the guns of Vicksburg,
to give her personal support to Annie
Wittenmeyer, bearing comfort to the wound-
ed men in the neglected field hospitals.
Anna Ella Carroll, true to the name and
fame of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, free-
ing her slaves to convert her patrimony into
literature appealing to Maryland, by all her
glorious past, to hold herself true to the
Union. Anna Ella Carroll, counselor of
Lincoln and Stanton, author of the Tennes-
see campaign, for whose reward her country
gave a cot in a free hospital and the martyr’s
entrance into the ranks of the immortals.
Susan B. Anthony, tried and fined for vot-
ing at the Presidential election of 1872—a
fine that still stands unpaid, because those
who passed sentence believed her plea that
“resistance to tyranny is obedience to
God.”
	But, like Paul, what shall I more say?


For the time would fail me to tell of all
those who, through faith, have subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained
promises, escaped the edge of the sword,
out of weakness were made strong, of
whom the world was not worthy; of the
women who have let the oppressed go free,
who have girdled the earth with a white
ribbon, who have opened the harems and
zenanas of the Old World, who are found-
ing homes and reformatories and hospitals
and schools; who are standing by the
strikers and the labor unions, and assert
the might of right against the right of
might; who proclaim the glad message of
peace at home and abroad; who are destined,
in the providence of God, to make and
keep this American Republic the land of
happy hearts and busy lives, and the im-
partial dispenser of every good and perfect
gift ordained of Heaven and esteemed of
men.
	KATE BROWNLEE SHERWOOD.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the Woman's Exponent:
OF THEE I DREAMED.

TO GERANIUM.
 I DREAMED at eventide,
	While zephyrs round me sighed,
A voice sweet with cadence stole,
	Over my sleeping soul,
Bidding my woes depart,
	Waking my unborn heart,
To life and ecstacy.
	Breathing words strangely sweet,
That seemed with truth replete,
	Of joys and hopes to be,
When present shadows flee,
	Foretelling happiness,
. Secured by love’s caress,
	Sweet Spirit of my dream,
		With thee.

Say not that I must wake,
	Nor of this bliss partake,
When every thought is thine,
	And thy dear words are mine;
Tho’ we are still unknown,
	Within each heart are sown,
Seeds of true constancy.
	Come, e’er the shades of night,
Darken love’s radiant light,
	That gleams for us afar,
Our faithful guiding star, 
	A gift from heav’n divine,
That will forever shine,
	Sweet Spirit of my dream,
		For thee.
							HYACINTH.
February 3, 1895.


THE EXPLOSION.

IT was nearing the close of a busy day,
In the Almy Village not far away:
When the faithful wife with tender care
Hastened the evening meal to prepare.
The kettle sings its cheerful song,
And the children are helping with supper along
For papa all day has been driving the drill
in the deep dark mine beneath the hill,
Thankful for work to earn his bread.
That his darlings at home may be clothed and few
Tis joy to prepare for that fathers return,
Who labors his household comfort to earn.
Things are moving on thus in the usual way
Toward the close of that busy day.
But hark! A sound falls on the ear,
And the stoutest heart stands still with fear
One mother springs forward, in agony wild


Closely clasping her terrified child.
Another, pale, silent, breathes but a moan,
As she gazes upward like statue of stone,
On that huge black cloud that is rising high
Awfully grand, ’gainst the clear blue sky.
For O, what words are needed to tell
Of the father’s grave ’tis a funeral knell,
Who a moment before was strong, bright and gay
Just preparing to leave the work of the day.
And lure him away to his family nest.
Where father, mother and child might rest,
But the fire damp, gathered with deadly power
Prepared the grim monster an opportune hour,
With three score strong men in his path
Dashes along in his terrible wrath,
Spreading death and carnage in his rear,
Bedewing his path with the orphan’s tear,
Torn away the strength of many a home,
Leaving tender children and mothers alone
For those whoes freed spirits went home that day
Perhaps, yes we hope, in a painless way—
We have naught to fear, for God is just,
And meet the reward of their works they must, 
But sympathies tears unbidden start,
While their sorrows are echoed from heart to
	heart,
Too plainly in fancy we see the bowed head
And the mother lie down in her widowed bed
We pray to that Father who reigns on high
Who has promised to list to the orphan’s cry,
Pour balm, O Lord, on their souls to night,
With thy loving care direct them'right,
That He’ll comfort and guide all along the way
Is the heart felt prayers all Israel pray,
And all honor be to that noble band
Who bravely faced the grim monster death
Who had snatched away their comrades breath
These brought them forth to an honored grave,
Such men must be counted the truly brave.
						AMY E. COOK.


ARBOR DAY.

Dear Editor:
WE name this tree in honor of Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Editor of the Woman’s EX-
PONENT.  A paper devoted to the “rights
of women of all nations.” Mrs. Wells
works hard for suffrage. She says, “There
are more women in Utah who own homes
and pay taxes than in any other place, with
the same number of people, hence they
ought to vote.”
	“Taxation without representation is
Tyranny,” and we plant this yellow ribbon
tree to keep this thought ever before us.
	MOAB, April 15th 1895.—Arbor Day,
should bring to all children many lessons,
and I trust this one, our first, will be most
fruitful. We chose wise teachers, worthy
soldiers, foremost minds—whose names
are sweet upon the lips of time.” And I
can assure you dear editor you are in very
good company.
	The boys chose Columbus, De Soto, Lin-
coln, Grant, Garfield, Webster, Clay, Edi-
son, Morse, Karl Maeser, Queen Isabella.
While for my Primary school I suggested,
Mary and Martha Washington, Frances
Willard, Elizabeth Grannis, Froeber, Field,
Washington, our school poet, Longfellow,
Clara Barton, (with whom I lived five
months at Johnstown after the flood) Susan
B. Anthony, Eliza R. S. Smith and your-
self as representing Utah.  So you are, in
Moab with the “Immortals.” How I
should like to be with you in May and
should my school close in time it is not un-
likely.  I have heard Miss Anthony often
in Pennsylvania as well as Rev. A. Shaw,
the last time I met her was in Norriston


Pennsylvania.  Miss Anthony’s sister was
at Johnstown when I was and we had
many talks about her illustrious sister.  God
bless her.
  
	I feel that if each tree were decorated
with an appropriate symbol, the object
lesson would be greater, so we had yellow
ribbon on your’s and Miss Anthony’s tree,
blue for Miss Willard, white for Mrs.
Grannis, a red cross flag on Miss Barton’s,
national flags on soldiers, the colors of-
Spain on Spanish discoverers, pink ribbons
for poets, cardinals for educators, electric
blue for inventors. The banner of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella on Queen Isabella’s tree.
So you will understand the reference to yel-
low ribbon.
	Thanks for information about Mrs.
Smith.  I took my sketch of her, from your
paper also “Her Ode to Liberty” which we
recited.
	I subscribe to so many home publications
I cannot afford many here but I must have
a Suffrage paper of this locality.  With
thanks and the hope we may some day see
you in Moab, l am, Yours Sincerely,
				SARAH J. ELLIOTT.


A WORD FROM CASTLE DALE.

Editor Exponent:
	WHILE I am sitting alone I feel impressed
to write a few lines to your valuable paper,
my thoughts go back to the time when I
first came to this valley, how desolate and
barren it looked. I stood on the bank of
the creek, and looking around saw nothing
but the naked hills and the ground all cov-
ered with sage brush and prickly pears, not
a tree, except a few cottonwoods along the
creek and a hut or dugout here and there to
shelter the few people that had come here to
make their home; we heard no birds sing,
except the song from the owl and you know
that is not a very pleasing one, but through
the blessings of the Lord and much hard
labor in which many of the sisters have had
a goodly share, the land has produced in
its strength for our need, the orchards are
now doing fine, we have raised some very
delicious fruits in Castle Dale, and according
to the statement from the Fair Salt Lake
City last fall, we have raised larger cabbage-
heads and onions than were presented there.
	The Relief Society of this place was or-
ganized with but few members, but the
numbers increased with the settlers, and
the ladies of Castle Dale are striving to do
their best to help roll on the work of the
Lord, we expect to have our Society Hall
finished this spring, the presiding women of
this stake are faithful in visiting the dif-
ferent associations in spite of the rough and
rocky road. In this valley, we have had a
few deaths in the new year, may the Lord
comfort those that mourn the loss of their
loved ones, may they remember the words
of the Savior, blessed are they that die in.
the Lord for they shall rest from their labors
and their works shall follow them, and of
the little children he says “of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven,” may we all be
prepared and have our lamps trimmed and
burning when the call comes, that our work
may not be in vain.
	The health of the people of Castle Dale
is good at present, the snow has disappeared
and spring is coming on.
			CAROLINE A. LARSEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -     -        Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia).   Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $[-].00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
cout    regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

			SALT LAKE CITY,   MAY 1, 1895.


[Column One] 
EQUAL SUFFRAGE IN THE CON-
STITUTION.

	IN the Constitutional Convention on the
morning of April 18th, the section on equal
suffrage which had passed its third reading
by a majority vote was brought up for re-
consideration, as had been previously de-
cided and the debate was limited to fifteen
minutes, so that the question was soon dis-
posed of without much argument on either
side. When the vote was taken it stood
sixty-nine to thirty-two, and the section as
originally formulated by the majority com-
mittee on Elections and Suffrage goes into
the Constitution of the New State giving
women equal political privileges with men.
On the same day the amendment for woman
suffrage passed in the state of New Jersey,
so that it really does seem to have been an
auspicious day for the cause.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony in a letter re-
ceived since the news reached her says,
“Hurrah for Utah No. 3, State—that estab-
lishes a genuine “Republican form of
Government.” I got the telegram just in
time Thursday evening to read it at our
city P. E. Club meeting, and there was a
big clapping of hands over it, then our
New Jersey State senate passed the amend-
ment bill the same afternoon, so we surely
may feel that the morning dawn streaks our
sky.”
	There will be great rejoicing over the
victory gained in Utah and it will certainly
be an encouragement to all those vho are
working for the enfranchisement of woman-
kind and the betterment of all mankind.
Certainly we as women are as deeply grateful
as it is possible to express without ostenta-
tion or display, but we appreciate in the
highest degree the efforts of the friends of
equal suffrage who so nobly stood by the
cause when so severely attacked by the
opposition. Some acknowledgement on be-
half of the women of this Territory is
eminently proper, and will assuredly be
made in good time, for the present, one feels
like being silently grateful to the Giver of
all good and hoping and praying that the
women of the new state may be wise,
prudent and cautious in the exercise of their
political rights.
	The newspapers have been usually on 
our side, but here and there opposition
bursts out—replying to some of these 
attacks and commenting upon speeches
made in the Convention the editor of the
MILLARD COUNTY BLADE has written some
vigorous articles, to which the writer’s'at-
tention has been drawn, and we thank him
very much for his able defense of the 

[Column Two]
principle, and for his kind and gracious 
words for all women. The following ex-
tract is from his editorial of April 10, 1895,
which we take great satisfaction in copy-
ing as it gives a dignified statement of wo-
man’s true position. 
	MITLARD COUNTY BLADE. 
	“The right that women have to equal
suffrage is above and beyond all “becauses,”
and especially where those “becauses” are
supposed to be involved in the political
rights of the sons of Ham. It is her right 
by virtue of her intelligence. It is her 
right by virtue of her superior morality and 
high standard of purity; a standard that 
man has not yet reached nor will ever reach
in politics until woman votes by his side. 
	Who is there that dare say, that thousands
of women who night, after night keep sleep-
less vigils and with tearful eye watch and 
wait for the return of the moral cowards of 
men that are spending their nights at the 
gaming tables,  are not as fully entitled to 
the franchise as their depraved life partners?
What male is there, that claims even the 
semblance of manhood, that would not ac-
cord equal political rights to her that, with
infinite sweetness and unwearied solicitude, 
bends over the couch of her sick child, and 
hour after hour and day after day nurses it 
back to life and health? The man that says
she is not as much entitled to suffrage
equally with the father that, mayhap, is 
snoring in bed, or carousing in some gin
mill, is a man only in his physical appear-
ance. A man that asserts she is not thus
entitled, is dead to every noble aspiration, to 
every progressive impulse and brands him-
self a back number that, by mischance, 
lives in an era that is several thousand years
in advance of the age to which he naturally
belongs.”


[Column 1]
THE COMING OF MISS ANTHONY.
	THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

	The visit of Susan B. Anthony to Salt
Lake City, will be an event of great impor-
tance, and one which those who know her
personally, will hail with joy, and certainly
those who have never had the pleasure of
hearing her before, will come eagerly to
listen to her grandly simple eloquence.
Miss Anthony is a rare personality, dis-
tinctively original in style, and charming in
her quaker simplicity of dress and de-
meanor. She has not only grown old
gracefully, but intellectually, she shows in
every line of her face and every curve of
her straight and slender figure, that attain-
ment of wisdom and strength of mind and
character which denotes unusual develop-
ment of the soul. Miss Anthony’s powers
of endurance are something wonderful; if
weary she recuperates quickly, and never
excuses herself from duty. Of her it may
truly be said, “she is one of the most
heroic figures in American history.” But
Miss Anthony will very soon be here now;
on the 12th of May she is expected to arrive,
and we hope the public will turn out
enmasse, to see and hear her, and those of
her party who will make the trip with her,
and who will be expected to take part in
the Conference, to be held in this city on
the 13th and 14th of May.
	The Rev. Anna Shaw who will accom-
pany Miss Anthony, is a woman of superior
attainments and marked ability. She is an
M. D., as well as a D. D., her history even

[Column 2] 
in brief is most interesting; she is bright,
vivacious, versatile and humorous. Miss
Shaw besides her titles, D. D. aud M. D. is
vice-Presideut at large of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
and also vice-President of the National
Council of Women, and holds other posi-
tions of honor but of less importance. She
was born in Newcastle on Tyne England,
but came to America with her parents
when four years old, and settled in Mass.,
later on they moved to Michigan; Miss
Shaw entered Albion College Michigan in
1872 and in 1875 entered the theological
department of the Boston University from
which she graduated in 1878. While in the
theological class she studied on week days,
and preached on Sundays. During her last
year she was paster of the Methodist
Episcopal Church of Hingham, Mass. Her
second pastorate was in East Dennis on
Cape Cod, where she remained seven years.
During this time a Congregational Church
without a pastor asked her to supply the
place until a minister could be obtained for
the position, but the congregation were so
well pleased with her services that she con-
tinued for six years to preach twice every
Sunday, in her own Church in the morn-
ing, and in the Congregational Church in
the afternoon.
	During that time she applied to the New
England Methodist Episcopal Church for
ordination, but was refused on account of
sex; though she passed the best examination
of any candidate; the case was appealed to
the general conference in Cincinnati in 1880
and the refusal confirmed. The lady then
applied to the Methodist Protestant Church
and received ordination on the 12th of
October 1880—the first woman ordained in
that denomination.
	Later Miss Shaw became more deeply
nterested in practical reforms, and took to
the lecture field on reform topics; she has
sometimes been reproached for not devoting
herself to preaching the Gospel, but her
answer is “that in adovcating the enfran-
chisement of women, the temperance
movement and other reforms she is teach-
ing applied Christianity, and that she has
exchanged the pulpit where she preached
twice a week, for the platform where she
preaches every day and often three times
on Sunday.”
	The other ladies coming are from Colora-
da and Wyoming and are fine speakers, and
also voters in their respective States.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society and her Counse-
lor Sister Jane S. Richards, also Sister E.
S. Taylor, General President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. went to Logan the 18th, to attend
the Sisters Conferences at that place, the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. and had
a pleasant time and interesting meetings.
	SISTERS Mary Ann Hyde President
Relief Society, Sanpete Stake, accompanied
by Sister Mary E. Irvine left this City,
April 17—to attend the Relief Society Con-
ference of Emery Stake held at Castle Dale
and also held other meetings at Hunting-
ton and Price. The sisters had a pleasant
journey except that the roads were very
rough for a woman so advanced in years as
Sister Hyde, yet she came back as happy
and buoyant as a young woman. They re-
turned April 23rd.

[Handwritten]
Howard


THE speech of Hon. F. S. Richards
made in the Constitutional Convention—has
been published in pamphlet form and is now
ready for circulation. It needs no eulogy
from us it is a clear comprehensive and dig-
nified address, and we hope will be read by
all the people of the Territory as well as
elsewhere, whether they believe in equal
suffrage or not, as it is always well to
examine both sides of every subject care-
fully in order not to be misled All
W.S. Auxiliary Associations should send for
the pamphlets and see to distribut-
ing copies in their respective counties. The
pamphlet can be obtained at the Exponent
Office, Room 228, Constitution Building.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EX. GOVERNOR THOMAS.

	“I WAS the chairman of the committee
on resolutions appointed by the last Re-
publican convention. I have a very clear
recollection of the action of the committee
in relation to the granting of equal suffrage
to women. Twenty-five of the twenty-
seven counties of the Territory were re-
presented on the committee. The large
majority of the members were not of the
class usually denominated politicians. They
seemed to me to be men who acted from
conviction. I believe the woman suffrage
plank was inserted in the platform because
the majority of the committee thought it
was right to place it there, and the manner
in which it was received by the convention
showed, I think, that the large majority of
the Convention thought so too. No other
resolution received such strong manifesta-
tions of approval.
	“With all due respect to the delegates in
the Constitutional Convention, representing
both political parties, who make the charge
that the woman suffrage plank was inserted
in the platform for the purpose of “catching
votes,” I deem it but just to say that in
my opinion, so far as the action of the Re-
publican committee is concerned, the charge
has no foundation in fact. It was, I believe,
an honest expression of the opinion of the
large majority of the committee and con-
vention.
	“I know of no pressure that was brought
to bear upon the committee in relation to
the matter.”


KATE FIELD’S OPINION.

	THE current issue of Kate Field’s Wash-
ington, in the department headed “My
Mail Bag," contains the following.
	The woman's edition microbe has at-
tacked Salt Lake City, which is not strange,
as it first appeared in San Francisco:
	Will you write a short article on any subject
most pleasing to you for publication in a charity
edition of the————for April 28? However
brief it may be, an article of whatever nature
over your signature will be an attractive feature
for Salt Lake people, and for “sweet charity.” I
feel that your heart will respond at once; you will
see by the heading the work I am engaged in.
Your friends here are all well, and would love to
see you here. Don’t you ever think of coming
this way? Judge Goodwin is as witty as ever,
and is doing good work in the convention. We
are going to call an Anti-Suffrage meeting
Thursday and expect to have great fun. Wish
you could be here.
						GENTILE.
	The motto of the Associated Charities,
for which my friend appeals, is “To help
and not to pauperize.” I believe so 
thoroughly in that motto as to be forced to


say “no,” in order to save myself from
being eligible to associated charities nearer 
home. I feel that I have done my duty to
Utah. I have helped her to put herself in
harmony with the Union, and now I want
a little reciprocity. I don’t doubt the clever
editor of the Salt Lake Tribune is doing
good work in the Constitutional Convention.
It’s a way he has. As to the fun of the
anti-suffrage meeting I don’t see, from any
point of view, where it comes in. It was
useless, I’m glad to note. For Mormons
to deprive women of the ballot after women
had voted for twenty years under the reign
of Brigham Young and his successor would
be an outrage. Gentiles oppose the ballot
for women because they believe that Mor-
mon women will vote according to the
Priesthood. So to parry a possible evil
they are ready to deprive all women of
political equality. If Mormen women can’t
be trusted, Mormon men are equally dan-
gerous. Two wrongs don’t make a right.
More harm must come from injustice to one
whole sex than from giving power to those
who may add great strength to the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I’m
willing to run the risk. It is always safe
to do right. With woman suffrage even I,
might be induced to become a citizen of
Utah. Perhaps this possibility furnishes
another potent reason—with some—for not
giving my sex the ballot.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, Thursday April 4th, 1895,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding,
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. Isabella Horne, E. B. Wells,
General Officers, with several Presidents of
Stakes and others were on the stand. Meet-
ing commenced at 10 a. m. with singing,
“Lord we come before thee now.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Horne, continued by
singing, “Do what is right.” Minutes of
morning meeting of previous conference
were read, by the Secretary. President
Young spoke a few minutes in her kind
motherly way, mentioned that it was the
Fast day but hoped the sisters had come
fasting to the conference as they would
have done, had they attended the fast meet-
ing, the Lord would bless those who had
come to the conference in that same spirit.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake,
said they had recently held a Conference at
Nephi, and had an enjoyable time, she had
been very ill and was still feeble, but had
been healed through faith and the power of
the priesthood; referred to the young girls
who were coming forward to assist in the
Relief Society, and also of the help they
were in the Primary, spoke eloquently of
the advancement women were making in
various directions.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
also spoke of the two days Conference held
recently, had visited the stake of late and
found all trying to do their best, thought it
was a time when we should look into our
own hearts, and put on the armor of
righteousness.
	Counselor Ann C. Woodbury St. George
Stake, felt it a pleasure to travel so far to
come and see the sisters, there were thirty-
eight on the train coming up to Conference,
they had started in a snow storm, referred
with much feeling to Sister Julia Ivins-
whose death had occurred a few months be
fore, her demise was a very great loss in
the society, she had been an active worker
in the Primary also, spoke of having
visited the Eastern part of their stake since
last conference; she alluded to the franchise
and said she wanted to see women get the
right to vote, made excellent remarks upon
silk culture.
	Counselor Lorinda Thompson of Millard
Stake, said they visited the different branches
as often as possible, some of the distances
were long and they had the disadvantage
of bad roads sometimes she felt very tired;
but generally found all doing their duty,
taking care of the sick, and saving grain;
at threshing time the sisters asked their
husbands for a bushel or two of wheat to
replenish their bins. Before she was called
to this position she had been sickly but
since had been able to do what was ex-
pected not only in the Relief Society but in
the Sunday School and the Primary, was
greatly exercised about the youth of Zion
had done her best to teach them correct
principles. President Elizabeth Bean,
Sevier Stake, said they had many poor in
their county who needed assistance, there
were sixty widows, she had taken consider-
able time visiting the several branches
in the Stake and getting everything in prop-
er order, hoped to have all the secretaries
keep uniform accounts. At their Conferences
they had always a lecture in the afternoon
on some church subject, each Society ap-
pointed one sister to lecture once a month
on some church subject, thought we should
educate the sisters to take care of the grain,
had herself had special instruction on the
subject, her stake was very large but hoped
to do her work thoroughly. Counselor
Minerva W. Snow of Sanpete spoke
specially of the work in the Manti Temple,
of the blessings received there and the union
that prevailed. Spoke of the fast meeting
the society held there in behalf of the sisters
who went to Washington, and felt their
prayers had been answered, dwelt much
upon humility and charity for each others
weaknesses.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Ogden,
reported Weber Stake as in excellent con-
dition she always had a good turn out at
their Conference in Weber Stake, the
Bishops were very helpful, and would come
and take the visiting sisters whenever they
wanted to go and hold meetings, sometimes
she felt the Society should be more ener-
getic and lead out in other directions.
	President Horne spoke for Salt Lake
Stake, in reference to the care of the needy
and afflicted a good work is being done, the
new regulations, or the  reorganization, so
as to be uniform in a national way, had made
some difference but it would soon become
better understood. Sister Horne bore a
good testimony of the Prophet Joseph, and
how glad she was to have heard him speak
as he did to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.
Mentioned Sister Woodbury and her ex-
perience in crossing the plains when she
was quite young, that she walked nearly all
the way through ravines, and all sorts of
places and when sitting down by the way,
she would empty the water out of her boots
and go on her way, never murmuring at
the hardships of the journey. Sister Horne
also spoke of the efforts being made to es-
tablish Kindergarten schools that all our
little ones might be taught in that method,
wanted each President in the County to
consider the matter and see what could be
done in her respective ward, and hoped all
would be united, though these schools


would be expensive to fit up with necessary
material.
	President Barber, of Cache Stake, could
report a good work spiritually, if not in
other ways, the temple was full of workers;
they had been disappointed in their silk
worm eggs last year, but hoped to have
better luck this year, and the sisters had
courage to do what was necessary in all
lines of work. Referred eloquently to the
geneological work being done here and else-
where related a dream touching upon this
subject.
	Counselor Reese, of Box Elder Stake,
spoke beautifully of their President Sister
Widerborg, represented the society every
branch as doing well, and told of their fine
granary filled with wheat to which they
were adding from year to year.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the live
issue of the day the question of equal suf-
frage then pending in the Constitution,
referred to some conversation she had with
members of Congress on the subject, while in
Washington recently, had full faith that the
section on suffrage would be inserted in the
Constitution, believed in equal political
rights for men and women. Sister E. S.
Richards felt women were a power and
should be in this day and hour, perhaps the
opposition was necessary, but we should
do all we could to uphold the question and
be united and stand firm, referred to the ap-
preciation of Utah votes in convention in
Washington when she was there, Utah
standing next to New York, gave some ac-
count of proceedings in Chicago, Miss
Anthony had asked her to speak of our or-
ganizations and how proud she felt to
represent them.
	Mrs. Richards made a motion that all the
women who favored equal suffrage in the
Constitution stand, Mrs. Smith seconded, and
every woman in that large congregation
was on her feet immediately. Sang
Doxology, adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by B. W. Smith.
					E. B. W ELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

PLEASANT VIEW.

Editor Exponent:
	KNOWING the interest you take in the
Relief Society of Utah in particular, and
in the advancement of womankind in
general. I venture after some delay to pen
 a few items from this settlement thinking
they may be of some interest.
	We were organized January 18th 1876.
Reorganized February 17th 1893. We
have forty members and twenty-nine are
working as a visiting committee. We feel
united in our efforts and desire to be one in
all our works, that the spirit of the Lord
may rest upon us in all our understandings.
	We have 162 bushels of wheat on hand,
and the sisters feel like increasing this a
little each year and doing their duty to-
wards the poor and needy.
	We commemorated the eighty-eighth
birthday of our beloved President Wilford
Woodruff, on March 1st, 1895. The Relief 
Society and the Young Ladies’ of this place
prepared a program suitable for the occas-
ion, consisting of songs, recitations, etc.,
with picnic included.
	All parties were invited, some non-mem-
bers taking parts in the program. We 
enjoyed ourselves well during the afternoon

[Column 2]
and evening.
	There were some lines composed for the
occasion, by Eliza P. Rhees, and read. I
was the desire of the Association that they
should be forwarded to the EXPONENT for
publication. If you would kindly insert
them in your valuable paper, realizing how
great is your mission, and wishing you suc-
cess in your every effort in the labors as-
signed you, we remain your fellow workers
in the good cause.
	MARY J. MAYCOCK, President.
	ELIZABETH RHEES, Secretary.

LINES COMPOSED TO PRESIDENT WILFORD
WOODRUFF ON HIS EIGHTY-EIGHTH
BIRTHDAY.

We hail thee our Prophet, Revelator, and Seer,
We love thee, we bless thee thy name we revere,
Among the most noble that's lived upon earth,
We know thou art numbered for thy wisdom and
	worth.
‘Tis eighty-eight years since the day of your
	birth,
When your spirit left Father and came to this
	earth,
To battle with error, darkness, and sin,
A crown of life, and victory to win.
In the days of your youth on missions you’ve
	been.
And called on mankind to repent of their sins,
To receive the glad message our Father has sent,
If in faith they receive it and truly repent—
Remission of sins to them would be given,
And prepare them if faithful for the kingdom of
	heaven,
When afflicted with sickness, privation and loss,
You was called by God’s servants to take up 
your cross,
And go to the nations the glad message to preach
A plan of salvation, the gospel of peace.
And while on that mission how great were you
	blessed,
Your labors were crowned with the greatest suc-
	cess. 
And many, yes many believed on your words
And the honest in heart were received of the
	Lord,
On the isles of the sea you’ve raised also your
	voice
And caused many honest in heart to rejoice[-]
In the year thirty-nine with a brave little band
You went to Far West to fulfill a command,
Which through revelation to them had been given
The corner stone of a temple must be laid to
	high heaven.
Though wicked men raged and endeavored to
	thwart
The plans of Jehovah and bring them to naught.
Filled with faith in their God they nobly marched
	on, 
Still praying and trusting till the great work was
	done.
And the South-East corner of that temple was
	laid,
With none to molest them or make them afraid,
And on the same day, and upon the same ground
Our dear Brother Woodruff with honor was
	crowned, 
Was ordained an apostle of Jesus our Lord,
The greatest of honor which on man is conferred.
And now at the head of this people he stands,
The mouth piece of God, and revelator to man.
Filled with honor, with love, and integrity grand,
He’s the favored of God, and the honored of
	man.
					ELIZA P. RHEES.

 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society, of Box Elder Stake, convened in

[Column 3]
the Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 12th
of March. President Olivia Widerborg
presiding. Singing, “Our God we come to
Thee.” Prayer by Bishop A. A, Jensen
Singing: “We are not ashamed to own our
Lord.” Roll called, minutes read and ac-
cepted. Reports read from all the branches,
by Secretary Annie Wixom. Sister Han-
nah Harper: If we realize our mission here
on earth we would attend to our duties
when we do, we increase in faith.
	Treasurer Fannie Graehl read the report
of the Stake Treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: I feel we gain
strength from our Heavenly Father in
meeting together.
	Sister Christine Jensen: If only we could
realize that we are the most blest people, we
sometimes will grumble, but then we would
never murmur.
	Sister Dewey: We read the Lectures on
Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants, we
also take the Deseret News.
	Sister Owens: We should be prayerful,
and not look at each others failings.
	Sister Watkins: We have good meetings,
it seems to me we have had an increase of 
the flow of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Widerborg announced that the
sisters of the Fourth Ward had prepared a
lunch for those from afar, in the vestry.
	Singing: “Truth reflects upon our
senses.” Benediction by Elder Lyman
Wight.
	Afternoon Session: Singing, “Once more
we come.” Prayer by Elder Crawford.
Singing, “Sweet is thy work, my God, my
King.”
	Condensed report read by Secretary
Annie Wixom.
	President Olivia Widerborg: My heart is
so full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father,
for His kindness to all of us, and for that
portion of the Spirit we enjoy today. If
you want to be the guardian angel of your
homes, even if you are wronged, do your
duty; our work is to relieve sorrow, suf-
fering and the needy and it is a work of
peace.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Charity is good,
if we have it in our bosom, it will increase
our faith.
	Sister Susannah Booth: We will all
have a reward for what good we do, if we
work together in unison and love.
	Sister Cecilia Nelsen: Sisters, do not be
afraid to give to those who need worse than
yourself, for the Lord will give you ten
fold back; once in a while we feel crushed,
and a kind word will be a blessing.
	Sister Ella Watkins: I felt to show my
willingness in doing my duty, or I should
not have been here. I think it quite a
responsibility to use wisely the means the
sisters have donated.
	Sister Harding: I know the Lord will
hear us, when we come before Him in the
spirit of humility.
	Sister Thorne: I believe we are trying to
do the best we can, in our weak way.
	Sister Mary Jansen: If we do a little good,
it is more benefit to ourselves, than those
we do it to.
	Sister Boden: I feel truly we have had 
a feast, it seems everyone who has spoken,
has  been filled with the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Mary Fridahl: Our Bishop has
called two of each association, to visit with
the other.
	Sister Annie Bowring: If we are not
subject to those placed over us, we do not
advance, and that is what we are here for.
	Emilia D. Madson: Let us strive to per-


form our duties, and remember the Lord in
the days of joy, and He will not forget us
in the day of sorrow.
	President Olivia Widerborg: I can bear
this testimony: that my sisters here are
earnest, faithful workers, I feel to praise the
holy name of our Father, in heaven, amen.
	Singing, "Guide, us, Oh Thou great
Jehovah.” Adjourned for three months.
Benediction Sister Barnard.
			Emilia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.       263


W. H. P. R. CLASS. 
			WAYNE COUNTY.
	THROUGH the perseverance of Sister J.
S. Coleman, president of the Relief Socie-
ty of Wayne Stake, the W. H. P. R.
Class was organized at Loa, Wayne Co.,
January 8th, 1895 with an enrollment of
twenty-four members, increased attendance 
twenty-five, decrease one—ending March
2nd, 1895, with an enrollment of forty-
eight members.
	The motto of the class is “The Physical
Redemption of our sex to the glory of man-
kind.”
	The object is to study and understand
nature and her most holy laws, so
thoroughly that we may know woman and
all her needs through life, qualifying her
for her true mission of wife, mother and
nurse.
	The beautiful principles of life have been
most efficiently advanced by our noble
teacher, Sister Hannah Sorensen.
	With a practical knowledge of thirty-
four years personal experience with woman,
she has appealed to reason, while pointing
out the beautiful truths as well as the many
absurd errors found in the text book King’s
Manual of Obstetrics—By the aid of which
together with the anatomical chart and the
female—skeleton, we have studied
obstetrics in its truest form—giving to the
woman a perfect knowledge of herself as
well as that of her family.
	Hygienic laws have been treated very
seriously and carefully in all its details, as 
regards diet, dress, exercise, importance of
pure air, cleanliness, order, purity in
married life, regularity of habits, avoidance
of disease and treatment when they do
come. All so necessary to the health and 
happiness of mankind.
	All the class members have been exceed-
ingly punctual and attentive, very few hav-
ing absented themselves and those who
have been reasonably excused on
account of sickness Sister Sorensen says
it is the most punctual class she has ever
had.
	Surprising interest has been manifested
by every member all through the class, all
have strained their minds to grasp and
understand all the principles as they have
been unfolded so beautifully. As far as it
is known they (the principles) will all be
heartily sustained and supported by every
member.
	All who have taken part in composition
writing have shown how strong and
heavenly have been the impressions of re-
form—those who have not written upon
it have the same impressions at heart.
	Testimonies have been borne by all either
written or orally, with a very few excep-
tions, that now life is more dear and future
hope more bright than ever before, that
they can appreciate and acknowledge God’s
workmanship in beautiful nature which has
opened to our view so much more glorious
grandeurs and harmonious purposes than
had ever before even been thought of. Many
heretofore mysteries of woman’s mission
have been revealed as being natural effects
of natural causes—God’s hand but not al-
ways God’s will can be seen in the disas-
trous works of the destroyer as he claims
the prey resulting from nature’s broken
laws.
	The principles of the Gospel, which are
so much in harmony with the class work,
have been made more plain, now we under-
stand why God has given His command-
ments.
	Acquaintances have been formed in this
class which will bring reflections of joy and
pleasure to those participating therein. The
members have expressed themselves as be-
ing thankful to God for the privilege they
have had of attending this class. All have
learned to love Sister Hannah Sorensen
very dearly as teacher and friend, and felt
to bless her every day of her life together
with Sister J. S. Coleman.
	The closing exercises consisted of com-
positions and lectures on subjects studied in
the class, intermingled with miscellaneous
exercises and remarks by the brethren and
testimonies of a few of the class members.
MARY YOUNG, Sec.


PAROWAN ITEMS.
Editor Exponent:
	WE believe its about time we should re-
port ourselves, therefore embrace the
present opportunity. Our Primary As-
sociation has just been reorganized on
account of its former president Mrs. S. A.
Adams having resigned, her health not
permitting her attendance. The primary
children were loth to part with their presi-
dent, her gentle loving ways had complete-
ly won them over, however the co-offi-
cers displayed much wisdom in choosing
Sister Ellen Davenport to fill the vacancy.
M. A. Rasmussen and Annie Gurr were
sustained as her counselors, and with the
assistance of the parents, we doubt not but
our Primary Association will continue in
the same beautiful course, that has hereto-
fore marked its movements.
	March 1st, was celebrated with a ball
given by the Relief Society for the benefit
of the missionaries, the cash proceeds were
accordingly donated for that purpose, while
the wheat taken for tickets was added to
the already stored by the Relief Society,
about twelve hundred pounds was received.
The party was one of social enjoyment with
an old time picnic at eleven p. m.
	The W. S. A. is doing a lively work, its
nterests have never flagged, the meetings
are well attended, the programmes always
fully carried out.
	March 5th the W. S. A. gave a ball for
the purpose of getting means to connect
ourselves with the Territorial organization,
believing it would be pleasanter and easier
to get the whole amount this way than to
collect of each individual, so we had a
“weight” party charging one half cent per
pound for the lady the gentleman fortunate
enough to get the heaviest and lightest
weight, getting his ticket free gratis, a
group picnic intervened and we had an
enjoyable evening all round.
			E. CRANE WATSON, Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
CEDAR CITY W. S. A

	MINUTES of organization of Woman’s
Suffrage Association at Cedar, March 18,
1895. E. Crane Watson President of the
Iron Co. Suffrage Association with her Vice
Presidents Mary Ollerton and Bessie Parry
met with the ladies of Cedar, March 18,
for the purpose of organizing an auxiliary
branch of the Iron Co. Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	Meeting was called to order, and prayer
offered by Charles Adams. President Wat-
son spoke upon the necessity and benefits of
such an organization, said that gaining
knowledge and broadening our views in
political matters was its object with no
selfish desire of obtaining prominence, nor
neglect of woman’s first and highest duties
in the home. The officers were unani-
mously sustained as follows:
	Sadie Wilkinson, President. Mary Ann
Lunt Vice President. May M. Higby
second Vice President; Nellie Couchen Cor.
Sec., Katie Palmer, Rec. Sec. Maude
Lunt, President. Mrs. W. C. Higgins
chairman Ex. Com. members of the same.
Miss Bessie Parry, Miss Cadie Leigh,
Millie Adams, Clara Taylor, Mabel Arm-
strong, M. Burney, Mary R. Middleton, E.
Hunter.
	President Watson briefly explained the
system of conducting the meetings men-
tioned the necessary books and music need-
ed, and gave the executive committee some
beneficial suggestions in regard to their
work. She also requested the secretary to
send for information at any time and we
would do our best to supply it. The by-
laws of the County Association, and pro-
gramme for first meeting were read and ex-
planation given, when meeting adjourned.
			MINNIE ADAMS, Cor Sec.


PARTY AT LYNNE.
Editor Exponent:
	WE the members of the Relief Society
of Lynne Ward, wishing to show to our
president Sister Stova Thomas, our good
wishes and love for her prepared a surprise
for her on the forty-sixth anniversary of
her birthday, it being on the second day of
April.
	Most of the sisters met at the home of
one of her neighbors, at twelve o’clock all
went from there together to visit her; and
made themselves at home, and had a very
enjoyable time, both spiritual and temporal
with singing and prayer and blessing each
other. A poem was also read by the sec-
retary composed for the occasion by Sister
Anne A. Crane; at the same time we
presented her with a beautiful photograph
of the Salt Lake Temple after which Sister
Thomas expressed her heart felt thanks to
her sisters for their good feeling and unity.
Some of the sisters bore testimony to the
goodness of God after feasting and having
a good time in general we returned to our
homes all declaring it a most enjoyable
affair.
		SARAH A. THOMAS, Sec., R. S.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE ground was broken and the first
stone laid for the Woman’s Building of the


Cotton States and International Exposition
last week, in the presence of a very large
crowd, Mrs. Joseph Thompson, President
of the Woman’s Board, made a short speech,
and then with a trowel furnished by the
contractor, laid the first stone of the struc-
ture. The Woman’s Building will be com-
pleted early in July.
	THE annual pamphlet of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
contains the minutes of the Atlanta Con-
vention reports of plan of work committee,
Kansas and New York Campaigns, stand-
ing committees, and of auxiliary States,
the resolutions, National and local constitu-
tions, list of the officers of the National
Association, and life members, financial re-
port for 1894, list of standing committees,
and much other information of value.
Every suffragist should order a copy at
once. Price fifteen cents. Address Harriet
Taylor Upton, Treasurer, Warren, Ohio.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	DIED at Paragoonah Iron Co. November 11,
1894, of general debility, Margaret Owens, wife of
Thomas R. Owens, born at Cafan—Coedy, Cyr-
mer Brekonshire, South Wales, Nov. 4th, 1831,
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
terday Saints in 1848; emigrated to America in
1859, emigrated to Utah in 1863. She bore her
afflictions without a murmur and died firm in the
faith. She leaves a husband, seven children, and
twenty-one grand-children to mourn her loss.
Sister Owen was also a teacher in the Relief
Society of Paragoonah ward, and she is greatly
missed in the Society. May she rest in peace un-
til the morning of the first resurrection.
				MARY E. FORSYTHE.

	WE are called to mourn the death of our be-
loved Sister Mary Anderson, who died of an
operation of a tumor, Jan 2nd, 1895. Sister Mary
was born in Denmark, July 15th, 1843; was Coun-
selor in the Big Cottonwood Ward Relief Society
which office she has faithfully filled. She was
quiet and unassuming in her disposition but
firm in the principles of her religion.
	She was faithiul in the performance of her
duties, working for the benefit of the society,
visiting the poor and comforting those in trouble;
her name is worthy of record. She leaves a kind
husband and a host of friends to mourn her loss,
her children died in their infancy.
								COM.

	IN memory of Mrs. Hannah M. Wright who
died on March 3rd, 1895, at her home in Mill
Creek, Salt Lake Co.
	She was born in Sheffield, England, March 7th,
1814, and was the daughter of George and Ann Wat-
son. She was the wife of Elder Joseph Wright
deceased; and leaves two sons three daughters,
twenty five grand-children and eighteen great
grand children to mourn her loss.
	Brother and Sister Wright emigrated to Utah in
the year 1849, located in Salt Lake City, for a
short time, then moved to Mill Creek Ward
where she resided until her death.
	Sister Wright was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She was all that constitutes a true woman, gentle
and kind in her domestic circle, she was a lov-
ing wife and mother. Possessing great faith
caused her to withstand acute suffering in order
that she might cleave unto her family as long as
possible. Her parting was as peaceful as though
quietly falling asleep. She was surrounded by
all her children, all that loving hands could do for
her was done.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society
altho’ unable to meet with her sisters, she liberally
donated to the poor and suffering.
	She performed a noble work in the St. George
Temple for her dead. Brother Wright was one
of the first who was called to Dixie to settle that
country, he obeyed the call taking a part of the
family with him.
	Sister Wright’s funeral was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House; the services were conducted
by Bishop J. C. Hamilton; appropriate remarks
were made by President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop
McRae, Elder John Kedington and several of the
local brethren, which were very consoling to the
bereaved family.
	The remains were followed to the Ward Ceme

[Column 2]
tery by a concourse of loving relatives and friend-
to pay their last respects to the dear departed ones
			ELIZABETH HILL, President.
			FRANCES H. HANSEN, Sec.

	At 6-30 p. m. on Sunday March 31st, 1895, Mrs.
Sarah B. Saunders, passed away from this life, at
the age of sixty-four years, having been born at
Studley Green, Wiltshire, England, April 27, 1831.
She embraced the Gospel in her native town, in
the year 1850 and was baptized by Elder John
Chislett. She left her native land for the Gos-
pel’s sake, in the year 1853, arriving in Salt Lake
City in 1854.
	In November of the same year she became the
wife of the late Henry Saunders of Provo.
	From that time until her death she has been a
faithful member of the Church. Also an active
worker in the Relief Society, having held the
office of treasurer of the Relief Society of the
First Ward, from its organization under Presi-
dent Young, in May 1868. She embraced the
Patriarchal order, of marriage and lived it. For
many years she was an earnest worker in the
Sabbath School.
	On the morning of March 10, 1895, she was
stricken with paralysis, she bore this sad affliction
with the patience and fortitude which has charac-
terized her life. Though she could not speak,
yet with a smile and a nod did she recognize
everything that was done for her.
	She never rallied from the stroke, but passed
away peacefully at the time mentioned.
	Her funeral was held Tuesday, April 2nd 1895,
at the First Ward Meeting House. The Relief
Society in a body followed the mourners, each
wearing a white badge. The white casket was
covered with choice flowers, the gifts of her nu-
merous friends.
	The sentiment in evergreen on the wall, “Live
to have no enemies,” was beautifully illustrated in
her life.
	Bishop Knudsen presided. The choir rendered
“Hark from afar a funeral knell.” Prayer by
Counselor Collough, after singing, “Down by the
River’s Verdant Side.” Elder James E. Daniels
read a sentiment to her memory from the Relief
Society, testifying to her integrity and faithful-
ness.
	Mrs. Electa Bullock read the following poem
by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder Salt Lake City.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
(In memory of Sister Sarah B. Saunders.)
So die the beautiful!
	Beautiful of thought and beautiful of life;
As the radiant sun in the crimson West,
	Sinks o’er the world’s sad strife.

So die the beautiful!
	Who pass from earth away;
In worlds of light arrayed in white
	They dwell in endless day.

So die the beautiful, 
Who leave life’s weary load;
With sandals loose, tread the golden streets,
	Of our Father’s blest abode.

So die the beautiful!
	At eve they go to rest;
And sleep the sleep of Death’s repose
	Like babe on mother’s breast.

So live the beautiful!
	The beautiful who never die;
Soothed by Love’s breath, on the other shore,
	Life’s river rolling by.

So live the beautiful!
	For loved ones clasp the trembling hand;
And open wide the pearly gates,
	That guard the “Better Land.”

O glorious life for the beautiful,
	Who trod the weary way
Up the toilsome steep with aching feet,
	With falling tears would pray.

So live the beautiful!
	When the race is safely run;
And the Father says “Come home, come home,
	Thy life work is well done."
				Lovingly,
						LYDIA D. ALDER

	Patriarch George Halliday followed, testifying
to her many virtues in her early life in England.
Also Elder Edward G. Harding, spoke in the
same strain, being one of her childhood’s play-
mates. Counselor David John delivered
the funeral address, in a beantifully por-
traying the future destiny of the saints who die in
the Lord.
	The closing hymn, “Sister thou wast mild and
lovely,” was feelingly sung by the choir.
	After the benediction by Elder O. H. Berg, her
many friends were privileged to view her mortal
remains.
	A large procession followed them to her last
resting place. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by Elder Edward Peay. When all that was mor-
tal of this loved one, was left to sleep the sleep of
the just, until Christ shall come.
						COMMUNICATED.


THE officers of the Utah Federation, of
Clubs were entertained by the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reaper’s Club,
on Tuesday evening, April 30th, at the
residence of Mrs. H. S. Young, who kindly
offered her home for the reception. The
house was prettily decorated in Apple Blos-
soms and dainty refreshments were served to
the guests, a program consisting of music
and recitations, an address of welcome and
an original poem, added to the enjoyment
of the evening.


Salt Lake School Of Obstetrics
and Nursing.

	A NUMBER of students from this school
passed examinations before the Utah
Medical Board of Examiners on the first of
January and received licenses to practice
Obstetrics. Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp will com-
mence a Summer Class on the sixth of May
in the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
Hall. The terms for entire course is ten
dollars. Books six dollars. Those desir-
ing further information address 34 S. 7 East
St.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1895.	NO. 20.


CONTENTS:

	The Art of Raising Silk Worms—Isabella E.
Bennett. The Poor Widow—William Crouch.
Cactus Papers. Silk Exhibit For Atlanta. U. W.
P.C. Lizzie S. Wilcox. Primary Fifth Ward
Logan—Emma Bunce. Hygiene And Physiology
	EDITORIAL:—Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s Sermon.
The National Conference. The Convention Ad-
journed.
	POETRY:—Woman’s Sphere—Laura Hyde
Miner. Reality—Geranium. April—R. M. F.
An Early Spring Day—L. M. Hewlings.


WOMAN’S SPHERE.

’Tis asked what is a woman’s sphere
	How should she act her part?
Is it to wear a smiling face
	To hide an aching heart?
To speak in accents soft and low
	Her irate lord to soothe,
With aching brow and weary hand
	His pathway render smooth?
This once was thought a woman’s lot
	Her only aim in life
But now she shines in every home
	Companion, friend, or wife.
So, with her heart and soul combined
	And conscience holding sway,
Her sphere is everspreading out,
	Where wisdom points the way.
				LAURA HYDE MINER.


For the Woman's Exponent:
REALITY.

DREAM on, beloved; why shouldst thou wake!
Why should the spell which holds us break?
Of thee, dear one, and for thy sake,
	Fair dreams I weave!
Life is so real, so fraught with care,
We may not trespass, though we spare
A mote of time for wish or prayer;
	Thus to receive
New strength, life’s future ills to bear,
	When love must grieve.

Dream on; or waking, let me still,
in thy kind soul one soft note trill,
One echo stir, one measure fill.
	With pleasure rife:
I would one beauteous garland twine,
One hope which should all joys combine;
For thee alone, forever thine;
	And calm all strife!
Life is so real, Love so divine!
	And Love is Life.
						GERANIUM.
May 3, 1895.


APRIL.

O FICKLE, playful April
	Say can’st thou ne’er be true?
Thou’rt like a pettish maiden
	Such freaks I never knew;
One hour all fun and frolic,
	Mid happy shouts and cheers,
Thy face aglow with sunshine;
	The next all clouds and tears.


Gay lads and bonnie lasses
	And children full of glee;
With young life bubbling over
	Are often moved by thee,
To ramble o’er the hillsides,
	Or through some fairy dell,
With baskets, cups and buckets,
	Oh! ’tis a shame to tell.

Right soon thy brow is clouded,
	Tears trickle down thy face,
Hushed is the merry laughter;
	And thou art in disgrace.
I fear thou art a coquette,
	Nay do not blush and run
I saw thee, slying, playing
	Peek-aboo, with the sun.

But ah! Thy days are numbered!
	Soon thou wilt pass away;
The leaflets, buds and blossoms
	Herald the coming May:
Then we’ll think of the sunshine,
	Forgetting doubts and fears;
Watching the buds unfolding,
	Forgiving e’en thy tears.
					R. M. F.


[Column 1]
THE ART OF RAISING SILK WORMS.
UTAH SILK ASSOCIATION.

	THE first to be considered is the seed or
grain, the best is obtained from moths issued
from the first cocoons spun, by the first worms
hatched—these are always the strongest, and a
good start is of great importance. The time
of hatching is about the middle of the moon
just as the foliage begins to come out on the
trees. The eggs should be brought from the
low temperature in which they have been kept
to a moderate warmth, gradually increasing
till the temperature is 75° or 80°. All foreign
people wrap the seed carefully in paper and
then in a soft cloth and place inside their
jackets, next the skin, this method insures an
even-temperature, with sufficient moisture to
make them strong; they should be examined
daily, and as soon as they show signs of hatch-
ing, spread out gently and place a few fine mul-
berry leaves on them, the little worms crawl on
the leaves and in this way can be moved to the
hurdle, (and the remaining eggs replaced until
they are hatched) spread the hurdles over with
straw ashes and cover with brown paper.
When they are provided with food by cutting
up the delicate young leaves and sprinkling
these over the young worms, being careful never
to touch the worms with the hand The hur-
dles containing the small worms should be kept
in an even temperature and be protected from
drafts, and sudden changes, and direct rays of
the sun, and feed the worms three times a day.
	The excrement of the worms must be re-
moved with the fibrous parts of the leaves
after the nourishing parts are eaten, and the
worms kept perfectly clean, or they will be-
come sick; this can best be done by placing
a few fresh leaves over them, and when the
worms come upon them, they can be lifted to
clean hurdles, and again supplied with leaves,
which are free from moisture,
	The worm casts its skin four times during its
growth, before each change it ceases to eat,
and must be left undisturbed and free from
noise; just as soon as it comes out of its skin it
begins again to eat voraciously, and increase

[Column 2]
rapidly in size after each casting. After the
first casting the leaves need not be cut, in-
crease the strength and quantity of the food
daily;—keep in mind that cleanliness, regular-
ity in meals, evenness in feeding day and night,
are the most essential points to bring perfect
success.
	As the worms grow larger the noise of their
incessant eating is like rain upon the trees.
The worms breathe through little orifices situ-
ated on each side near the legs, for this reason
they should never be allowed to become
crowded together but should be given more
room as they grow larger.
	No one should attempt to raise worms in a low
marshy place, for in such places the air is
liable to become stagnant, and charged with
noxious vapor, this with all obnoxious fumes,
especially that from tobacco, are injurious, and
often causes speedy death. Also remember the
insects are tender and must be protected from
sudden changes in temperature, hot weather,
being much worse than cold, if they are prop-
erly fed they will stand the cold and give more
silk, as they eat much more. Great care
should be taken to have the leaves free from
dust, and dry, but not withered.
	The worms should be watched very closely,
those unable to shed their skins must be helped
out; at the first appearance of sluggishness in a
worm it should be taken out and thrown away,
for if they are sick it will spread to others, if
they are lazy their cocoons will be worthless,
and it is better to give the room and attention
to the remainder.
	As they approach maturity the worm becomes
transparent, ceases to eat, raises and moves his
head from side to side, and should be at once
provided with small branches of brushwood or
straw (or small cornucopias made of paper) in
which they will ascend and begin to spin; they
should not be allowed to get close together.
They complete their cocoons in from four to
six days. The male and female cocoons are
easily distinguished, as the female is larger; an
equal number of each should be kept for pro-
pagation—and the rest exposed to sufficient
heat to distroy life, and prevent further pro-
gress of the moth; in this climate if exposed
to the scorching of the sun for three days,
their destruction becomes effectual, and the
cocoons are ready for reeling at any time.
	Those which have been reserved for the pro-
duction of seed, after the lapse of from eleven
to fifteen days the moth begins to push aside
the fibers at one end of the cocoon and crawl
out. The sexes almost immediately couple,
the males are thrown away and the impreg-
nated females are placed in a darkened apart-
ment for four or six days, and provided with
paper on which to deposit their eggs; each
female produces about 500 eggs, no food
should be given. Ants, mice, lizards, spiders,
and other insects are very fond of the fat ten-
der worms, and must be guarded against.
Thunder and lightning are very injurious to
the worms, and it is necessary in stormy
weather to cover up the windows so they can-
not see the lightning.
	To those who are beginners - in the work we
would say—commence by raising a few, watch
them closely! and learn their habits; by this
you will gain experience and will not become,
discouraged.
			ISABELLA E. BENNETT,
					Chairman Committee


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE POOR WIDOW.
	
	I REMEMBER one cold November night,
long ago, I was employed as patroling
night watchman, on one of the banks of
the River Thames, east of London, near
the standing point of my cold and lonely
walk were some old oak trees on one side,
and dried reeds on the other that had grown
between the bank and the water. The
cold biting wind, roared and howled in the
trees, and hissed and screamed among the
reeds. My thoughts took shape with my
surroundings, and were evil and only evil,
continually, vainly did I try to turn my
thoughts to good.
	I had no light, not so much as a match in
my pocket—why? Because I had stores of
powder in my care, hence the precaution—
	In a little while the evil had such mastery
over me, that I became alarmed! Stopping
in my walk I took off my hat with my left
hand, then raising my right hand towards
heaven, I prayed earnestly to the Lord to
deliver me from the power of evil, and give
me a good train of thought, that might be
cheering and profitable. That prayer was
immediately answered and one of the results
of that night’s meditation was,

	THE PARABLE OF THE POOR WIDOW.

	There was in the city a certain poor
widow, who feared God, and wrought
righteousness; and to all the anxious care
and toil of rearing her fatherless children,
there was added unto her much bodily
affliction, she was a great sufferer.
	And it came to pass in process of time,
when her children were grown up around
her, and she began to look to them for that
comfort and consolation, which in her con-
dition, she so much needed—that she was
sorely disappointed; even in this long
cherished hope of her widowhood. For
one treated her with cold indifference, and
seldom spoke to his mother either good or
bad. Another had caused her much pain
by his misconduct, and as age and infirmity
increased upon her, and there was no one
to condole and comfort her, the poor widow’s
heart began to fail, and her spirit to sink
within her. And she began to say within
herself, what availeth me that I have toiled
through all these long years of suffering
for the benefit of my children? And in the
anguish of her spirit, she cried unto the
Lord. Saying "O Lord, wilt thou be
pleased to make known to thy handmaid
how—all these things can be made to work
together for good, according to the
promises?” And the Lord answered the
poor widow according to her request, and
sent an angel to comfort her. And he
spake comforting words to the poor widow.
He said moreover, look around now upon
those that have health and wealth in
abundance: where are their bowels of
mercy towards the afflicted? But thy suf-
ferings have increased thy compassion, now
therefore, if thou wilt continue in well do-
ing, and possess thy soul in patience; thou
shalt be made a mother in Israel a messen-
ger of mercy! And when the poor widow
heard these things, she was content, yea—
her heart, was filled with joy at the pros-
pect of doing good.
	But it came to pass that the poor widow
died! And was carried by the angels into
Abraham’s bosom.Yea—her spirit did
soar towards heaven, even as the lark rises
up in the morning full of rejoicing! And
on the way she was met and embraced by
the holy ones, and she was glad because she

[Column 2]
was free. Having left all her afflictions be-
hind her, and thus she passed many happy
days in sweet and heavenly converse with
congenial spirits. Her youth was renewed
as the eagle, yea—it did seem to her, that
in one harmonious, joyous life, old age and
youth were blended.
	And as the memory of the past came
back to her recollection, she began to say
within herself, surely I have been in this
delightful place before, and some of these
were my companions, but there were others,
whom now I do not see. And she said to
the angel, “where are those my companions,
in whom I once, delighted. There was
Rachel, Ruth, Mary, Mercy and Evangeline,
where are they now?” And the Angel
grasped the widow's hand and wept as he
replied, “Alas! For them! They’re fallen!
They have been deceived aud seduced by
wicked men, who wooed and won their
virgin love, but to defile and ruin.”
	And there was, as though there had been
a veil withdrawn, and the widow saw them
afar off, in the place of their torment, there
was wailing and gnashing of teeth. And
when she saw them she wept sore, and re-
fused to be comforted, for she said, surely I
do remember them, when they were pure as
the angels.
	And she said to the angel, "let thy hand-
maid I pray thee, go down now, and pluck
them as brands from the burning?”
	And he said unto her “how?”
	And she said, “I know not, but it was
promised me that I should be a messenger
of mercy. Now therefore if there be
mercy in heaven that can reach even these,
O let me go down to them and tell them?”
	And he said unto her, "go and prosper!
and the blessings of all be upon thee, be-
cause thou hast prefered it before all honor, to
seek and to save the outcast! For behold
the bosom of the great Father of all, doth
yearn over these with exceeding compassion,
because they sinned not willingly, but were
deceived. Now therefore, thou art a mes-
senger of mercy unto them. And many
shall be glad for thy coming, for they shall
yet be redeemed and sanctified, from all
their filthiness will I cleanse them, saith
the Lord! And surely I will avenge them
upon their heartless deceivers in that day,
when I will cause them to be clothed in
garments clean and white and to sing the
songs of the redeemed, in the society of the
angels, while their seducers, who died as
they lived, impenitent shall be left to writhe
in their torment!”
	And because thou hast desired this at my
hands, blessed art thou, and behold, I do
give unto thee a promise. That all the
blissful emotion, of that holy—heaven born
affection, when thy maiden love was wooed
and won, shall be renewed unto thee, in all
its purity, aud increased unto thee in all
its delights for ever and ever!
					WILLIAM CROUCH.


VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	ACCORDING to appointment we, Sister
Mary E. Irvine and myself left this City for
Emery Stake on April 17, arriving at Price
1-30 p. m. Were met by President Relief
Society, Sister Sarah Cox and conducted
to Bishop Frantzen’s where we were
hospitably entertained and held meeting in
the evening which was well attended.
	The City is nicely laid out and many 
beautiful shade trees planted. On 18th, we
proceeded in a carriage over very rough


roads to Huntington, 22 miles, where we
partook of luncheon at Brother and Sister
Pulsifer’s, thence to Castle Dale to meet with
the sisters in Conference. Brother Cox ac-
companied by his wife took us to Sister
Maria Olsen’s, President Relief Society and
we remained there two days. It was very
pleasant to meet with an old and valued
friend so comfortably situated in her new
home, also many other dear friends of form-
er acquaintance who have, through their
industry, made homes in the “desert.”
My heart was drawn out towards the
people there, to see how they have labored
and toiled in this desolate region to obtain
the comforts of life.
	We had an excellent conference which
was well represented from the various set-
tlements. The people are alive and zealous
for the truth. President Larsen spoke very
encouragingly to the sisters, also urged
them to sustain the EXPONENT which, he
said, conveyed much useful information and
should be liberally patronized.
	I should not forget to mention the high
appreciation held by the people generally of
the labors and influence of Apostle Lyman
who visits them occasionally and they ad-
here to his counsel and withal observe the
word of wisdom.
	On Saturday there was an interesting
Primary Conference showing that the child-
ren are well cared for. A young lad, from
Orangeville, whose name I did not ascertain,
spoke beautifully and seemed especially
adapted for presiding.
	After meeting we returned to Hunting-
ton and a meeting was appointed in the
evening. Stake President, Sister Larsen,
Sister Irvine, Sister Cox and Sister Pulsifer
met with the sisters from which I begged to
be excused being somewhat weary, I retired
early and next morning we returned to
Price where a meeting was appointed in the
evening. On Monday morning we bade
farewell to our kind friends and proceeded
homeward.				M. A. HYDE.


AN EARLY SPRING-DAY.

BROOK and breeze were singing
	Rejoicing to be free,
All the earth was springing
	To life, o’er mount and lea
Rosy day was dawning,
	Athwart the eastern sky,
Merry birds where chirping.
	“Glad Spring is drawing nigh.”
Winter’s reign is over
	All nature seemed to speak,
Spring the glad new-comer,
	Reclothes the earth complete,
Flocks roam o’er the hillsides,
	Cattle from stall are freed,
Spring’s storehouse is opened,
	O’er mountain vale and mead
Came ro earth that morning,
	Guileless and undefiled.
Seeming gift from Heaven,
	To Gladden with its smile.
With spring-time’s adorning.
	In its awakening bloom,
With love’s fond caressing,
	Welcomed, to heart and home.
All the world seemed singing,
	Peons of praise in song,
Airs from Eden laden,
	Float round the newly born.
Summer, Autumn, Winter,
	Again come spring’s fair dawn,
One brief year earth-given,
	Then to life immortal born.
March 24th.			L. M. HEWLINGS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CACTUS PAPERS NO 2.

HOW MARY ANN CIRCULATED THE PETl- 
TION IN STRINGTOWN.
	A NINE days wonder—a sensation equal
to that of the advent of a new circus or a
band of Assyrian beggars with a danc-
ing bear, has just been in progress; indeed,
the pulse of Stringtown has hardly yet quit
palpitating from its effects, and probably
will not until there is something more ex-
citing to take its place.
	You must know, we have a Suffrage As-
sociation in our town. It is but a youthful
affair, and its members are but children in
politics, etc. Yet it has been a thorn in the
side of many a good honest soul, and a
source of wonder and comment among many
who suppose we meet together to talk about
the men, and tear their characters to atoms.
Poor mistaken creatures, they never come
near to satisfy themselves as to our good in-
tentions, and our efforts to improve and lift
ourselves from the mire of ignorance and
superstition; but, hiding their heads, give
way to morbid forbodings of the terrible
state of society which will ensue if this
thing goes on. But in spite of opposition,
we are growing and gaining strength, and
like infants of a larger growth, are now
able to take a little bread with our milk;
while such opposition but serves as an im-
petus to renewed effort.
	We have a president of whom we are
proud, to say the least. So the other day,
when she called a special meeting, for the
transaction of “Special and important busi-
ness,” there was an immediate and hearty
response. Without going into details, we
were there given each a copy of a petition,
asking that a clause favoring equal suffrage
be inserted in the State Constitution then in
process of manufacture, with instructions to
canvas the town, and secure as many sig-
natures as possible.
	To all, this seemed a fitting and unex-
pected opportunity to remove some of the
prejudice existing against us, and with
cheerful faces we set out on our errands,
nothing doubting as to our complete and
unanimous success.
	I was assigned the district of Main and
Big-bug streets; and I at once set about the
business, thinking to finish my canvas that
afternoon, and report success in the evening.
I went into the mercantile establishment of
Puff, Duff and Digdeep, to purchase a pen-
cil and a paper of pins. In the absence of
something better to do, the proprietors stood
around the store, with some half dozen
other shining lights, talking with the
gravity of sages, on the subject of politics,
“Now,” thought I, “is my opportunity,
they will be just in the right mood for our
proposition.” Being perfectly well
acquainted with all, I had no hesitation in
approaching them, which I did, paper in
hand.
	“Gentlemen,” I said cheerfully, “I have
a paper for you to sign.”
	They at once exhibited considerable in-
terest. Mr. Puff took the paper from my
hand, and read it aloud to his colleagues.
An ominous silence ensued, followed by
Mr. Puff pompously and severely enquir-
ing.
	“Mary Ann Blinkenstoffer, where, is
your husband.”
	In the field,” I replied innocently, “at-
tending to his business.”
	“And where are your children?” “In the
school-room.” I answered simply.

[Column 2]
	“Where are your dinners?”
	“Why, in our stomachs, of course,” I re-
plied, flaring up, “And if I can furnish you
with any further details of my domestic af-
fairs, I will do so at some future time, when
I am in less of a hurry.”
	“O, come now, Sister Blinkenstoffer,”
said Puff in a conciliatory tone, “Don’t get
angry, I only said what I did for the good
of yourself and family, and should have
stopped when I asked you what you were
doing.”
	“Well,” I exclaimed, “I will tell you, I
too am ‘in the field,’ attending to my busi-
ness. My husband does not know of it,
but if he did, he would favor the move-
ment for proof of which assertion you may
ask him.”
	With these words, I picked up the paper,
and with all the dignity I could command,
walked to the door during a burst of laugh-
ter which I realized was at the expense of
the pompous Puff.
	I was recalled by cries of “come back”
“We want to hear more about this,” “I
want to sign that paper,” I swallowed my
wrath, and went back. For one hour and
thirteen minutes I stood, talking like a steam
engine by way of explanation, before I got
that crowd to understand what I really
wanted. Mr. Dohed was positive I was
trying to enlist members for the Suffrage
Association, and did’nt want his wife and
daughters to go there and get stuffed with
nonsense. He had a hard enough time to
get along with them as it was, and he did’nt
know what would become of him in case
they put on any more airs.
	Digdeep signed the paper first and with-
out comment, but with a merry twinkle in
his eyes that spoke volumes.
	Duff did’nt want his wife closeted all
night with a crowd of drunken Jurors. In
vain I explained that such a thing was im-
possible under existing laws. I met it
everywhere, and from all classes, until I
finally decided that it was high time women
were admitted on a jury if drunken mem-
bers were so universal an institution.
	Mr. Feereful said women were exempt from
service in case of war and if they had equal
suffrage they would hence have more rights
than men, which would be entirely wrong.
	“Indeed,” I said with spirit, “That re-
mark is equivalent to admitting that our
cause is just and right. Besides, you are
wrong in the idea that women are exempt
from service.”
	“How so?” he asked.
	“Why, women have the very hardest
time of all during a time of war?”
	“Please explain.”
	“Well,” I went on, “they have the care
of the home and family, the anxiety for ab-
sent loved ones, and—”
	‘And what?”
	“Well,” I said slowly and impressively,
“If it were not for the women, where
would be your soldiers? An army of men
represents a degree of labor and care, pain
and anxiety which cannot be estimated.
Oh, there is no use denying it, women have,
and always have had, the hardest row to hoe
in this world. ’
	Mr. Feereful signed the paper; so did
many others, only Puff, Duff and Dohed
standing aloof.
	A sudden twang from the brazen-faced
advertisement clock warned me that time
was flying and I made a hasty exit, leav-
ing them to talk over the shocking affair at
their leisure.

[Column 3]
	I encountered Councilor Thin-skin at his
gate and accepted his gracious invitation to
accompany him into his house, with visible
satisfaction. With great urbanity he listened
to my request, and with great deliberation
proceeded to argue me out of my views.
	“You see Mrs. Blinkenstoffer, heaven has
implanted in the human breast a feeling—
call it love or sentiment—or what you like,
a feeling—which, between the sexes, may
be likened to a golden chain. It holds man
and woman together; It is as different from
all other feelings as you can imagine, and
while it is strong as steel when properly
nourished, a single false-step will break the
link and they each fly off at a tangent and
it requires a twenty horse power engine to
bring them together—”
	“Oh, Judge,” I exclaimed laughing in
his face at this mixture of sentimentalism
and engineering, “What has all this fol-de-
rol to do with the question. Are you go-
ing to sign or not?”
	“Hold on, Mrs. B. I’m coming to that
directly, I was just going to remark that I
believe this here Woman’s Suffrage busi-
ness is going to break a link of this golden
chain, and if it does, we’ll all go to the
dickens together.”
	“Well” I replied cheerfully, “so long as
we go together it will be all right. There
is nothing one-sided about that. Now I’ve
got your wife’s and daughter’s signature,
am I going to have yours?”
	“I suppose so,” he replied as meekly as
need be. This done, he started again
on his subject, and I left him in the midst
of a sublime syllogism on the unity of the
male and female elements which ended,
I can’t tell where or how.
	Richard Benjamin Singleman, bachelor
aged fifty-seven, next claimed my attention.
He lives on the corner of Big-bug and Lit-
tle-fellow Streets with his aged and widow-
ed mother, the meekest little woman in the
world, as his housekeeper. In response to
my question she simply said, “Ask Dicky
Ben—” In reply to my question as to
where I should find that interesting crea-
ture, she said, “In the back yard.”
	I found him in the act of filling his
buckets with food for his pigs. I told him
I had a paper for him to sign.
	“All right,” he said, come with me out
to the pig-pen and be tellin’ me ‘bout it
while I work.”
	I followed his denim clad form, bent un-
der its heavy load down the narrow path
leading to the odorous abode of that much
despised but useful animal talking a “blue
streak” the whole time, with the following
effect.
	Having emptied his buckets to the wait-
ing, grunting quadrupeds, he set them down
planted his hobnailed shoes firmly on the
ground, placed his arms akimbo, and looked
me squarely in the face from under his
shaggy, grizzled eyebrows.
	“Wall, you see, missis,” he began with
emphasis, “Such fellers as me an’t sposed
to have an opinion on these here subjects,
but we’ve got ’em all the same. And my
’pinion is this. I find it mighty hard to
keep up my end of the neck yoke, as tis,
and I would’nt have no kind of show if the
women-folk get to be boss entirely. For
that reason, to save myself from bein’ com-
pletely squelched, I’m opposed to women
bein’ policemen and poll-tax collectors.”
Seeing me in the act of beginning a remark
he said hastily—
		[Continued on page 275.]


CACTUS PAPERS NO. 2.
[Concluded from page 271.]
	“You need'nt argy, for I haint no argy-
ment for you, I just simply won’t sign my
name to have a woman put over me as
boss.”
	Saying which he picked up his buckets,
and hastily entered the corrall, closing the
gate after him.
	I walked slowly away, thinking of the
weak, amiable old mother who in this case
held up the other end of the neck yoke; and
who had so dutifully told me to “ask Dicky
Ben,” and sighed to myself “Oh consistency,
thou art a jewel.”
	The Strong folks all signed with the ut-
most good humor; so did the Sensabal
family, with the exception of Miss Sally,
who declared that she had all the rights
she wanted, and when she felt herself to be
down-trodden, she would let us know, as
our services might then be needed, and
much to the same effect. It was now get-
ting along toward chore-time, and I thought
I must quit and finish in the morning.
	But as I passed the Post Office, I noticed
a number of acquaintances standing within
so I thought to make one last appeal before
hieing away to get supper and tend the
children. The crowd already had an inkling
of my business, things of so startling impor-
tance travelling quickly in a rural district,
so I had no difficulty in opening the subject.
Some signed gladly, some were afraid, some
did it because another d d, some did not do
it at all. There was much bantering and
arguing, but experience had made me wise.
I had learned to cut short a long dialogue
on a mazy exposition of views, and we had
a hot, sharp debate for some moments when
up sauntered Prof. Full pate, scholar and
gentleman, who had heretofore been ab-
sorbed in looking over a book.
	“Why, why, what’s the matter here,”
he asked enquiringly.
	“Nothing, only we want you to sign this
paper?”
	“Oh, all right,” glancing over it, “Any-
thing to please the ladies.” And he put
down his signature plainly and legibly, in
view of the assembled crowd.
	“Yes,” chimed in a voice from some ob-
scure corner, "and here’sanother for you to
sign Professor.”
	“Ah, indeed, this suits me too.” And if
the learned scholar and gentleman, did not,
then and there sign his name, again, on the
detested opposition paper, asking that the
suffrage article be placed separately before
the public.
	In great indignation I turned away, and
as I passed through the door, overheard an
old gentleman grumbling to himself—
	“It’s mighty funny that the wommen
folks don’t have sufferin’ enough naturally
in life, without wantin’ to go and hunt up
a lot more. They beat all, they do, for in
consistency.”
	I was angry, yet amused, I felt myself to
have been half insulted, browbeaten, made
fun of, and a great many other things, by
people whom I had esteemed as ladies and
gentlemen before, and my friends. There
was some comfort, however, when I opened
my paper and scanned over the forty-seven
names of strong and influential men and
women inscribed there. And when, in the
evening, I recounted my experiences be-
fore my husband and children, we laughed
away all the disagreeables, so that now I
am in as good humor as ever, especially
since we gained the object of our heroic


struggles, and kept the article in the con-
stitution.
	Long live and flourish the true-hearted
men who stood firm for equal rights and
liberty.
							CACTUS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

		SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1895.


REV. ANNA H. SHAW’S SERMON.

	THE next issue of the EXPONENT will be
No. 1. of Volume 24—and will contain
Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s sermon in full as
taken by the stenographer.


[Column 1]
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S. A.
	THE distinguished women who were ex-
pected here to hold a Conference of the
National-American Woman Suffrage A
sociation arrived on Sunday May 12, as
anticipated and were met at the depot by a
large delegation of suffrage women wearing
their colors, in carriages and the “Utah”
which accommodates over thirty people.
Breakfast had been ordered for the party at
the Templeton and afterwards the ladies
drove for awhile to see the city from various
points. In the afternoon the Rev. Anna
Shaw delivered a discourse in the large
Tabernacle to an immense congregation of
several thousand people. Miss Susan B.
Anthony followed Miss Shaw speaking for
a few minutes only, in a very forcible and
earnest manner. Bishop Whitney occupied
the remainder of the time.
	The Union service at the theatre did not
prove a union of ministers of the different
Churches as anticipated, but Miss Shaw
fulfilled our utmost expectations. Her ser-
mon was “The Heavenly Vision,” and we
greatly regret that we have not this elo-
quent sermon in full to use in our paper.
However the daily papers were very
gracious and made quite extended notices of
her address. The house was literally
packed.
	Monday morning May 13th, at 10 o’clock
the Conference opened in the City and
County Building in the hall where the
Constitutional Convention had been held.
The decorations had been left in place so
the ladies had flags and banners and stream-
ers as ornamentation, as well as beautiful
flowers in vases to greet the eye and make
the hall a pleasant picture. The large
lithographs of Miss Anthony and Mrs.
Stanton were hung in conspicuous places,
but the visitors themselves were the most
powerful attraction.
	Governor West who had been invited to
introduce Miss Anthony came early and
was on the platform to greet these celebrat-
ed women as they came in. The hall was
filled with men and women watching the
door, eager to see these famous ladies as
they entered the room.

[Column 2] 
The Colorado delegates who had arrived
Sunday afternoon came on to the platform
and after the stand was filled, the Secretary’s
desk was also filled up, every seat in the room
and many had to stand.
	The Conference was called to order by
Mrs. E. B Wells, and the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw offered prayer.
	Governor West introduced Miss Anthony
to the assembly with a very happy and
brief speech saying “It is a pleasure and
a distinguished honor to introduce one
whose fame is world-wide and whose work
has been devoted in the highest sense to
humanity, he alluded to her former visit to
Utah and the fact of her being introduced
by the mayor Daniel H. Wells, she carried
away pleasant recollections of her first
visit, and he sincerely hoped that the present
sojourn would be even more agreeable, as
she had come just after the Constitutional
Convention had engrafted into the Con-
stitution, into the organic law, a provision
granting equal suffrage to women. Gov.
West assured the ladies that the Constitu-
tion which provides for suffrage for wo-
men will be carried by an overwhelming
majority. (Applause )
	Miss Anthony’s response was very
gracious and her introductory address was
very complimentary to Utah. She alluded
to the gains made in securing school suf-
frage in twenty five states municipal suf-
frage in one full suffrage in Wyoming and
Colorado and practically in Utah, because
it is sure to carry. Her speech in full will
be given later.
	Gov. West also introduced the Rev. An-
na H. Shaw as one of Miss Anthony’s
most renowned and successful co-workers.
Miss Shaw made an eloquent address in her
usual bright and winning way which we
shall include when we publish in full. Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball the pioneer in the wo-
man suffrage work in Utah, welcomed the
visitors most cordially and referred to the
first visit of Miss Anthony and related
quite a number of reminiscences of past
work of these great leaders of the agitation
for suffrage.
	Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury of Denver
and Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford of the same
City were each formally introduced and
made brief addresses. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young Honorary Vice President of the
N. A. W. S. A. made a brief speech of wel-
come and was followed by Mrs. William
Ferry, of Park City, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith and by Mrs. Joanna Melton a brilliant
and humorous Scotchwoman, who always
puts her hearers in a good humor. Next
came Mrs. C. E. Allen President of the
Utah Federation of Clubs, who sort of re-
 lated her experience, then Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne a pioneer woman of 1847, telling a
little of the early hardships. Dr. E. B.
Ferguson said a few words of welcome and
expressed her pleasure at the visit of Miss
Anthony, and the Rev. Anna H Shaw.
Hon. J. R. Murdock of Beaver was the
last speaker, he told the ladies he was a
member of the Legislature of 1869 and
1870 when the right of suffrage was first
conferred upon the women of the Territory,
and again had been privileged to sit in the
Convention which had made it a part of the
Constitution of the new state.
	In the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. F. S.
Richards gave a very large and elegant re-
ception at their handsome residence on A.
Street to over three hundred guests. The
house was very beautifully and artistically

[Column 3]
decorated with flowers vines, etc. In the
dining room where delicious refreshments
were served by daintily dressed young girls,
the prevailing color of the decorations was
the significant yellow, and the effect of the
arrangement altogether was very attractive
to the eye and displayed exquisite taste.
	An evening session was held with a
crowded audience, hundreds not being able
to gain admission. President Angus M.
Cannon made the opening prayer and Miss
Maude Pratt with the Cecelia Club rendered
very effectively and in excellent voice that
beautiful hymn, “The Psalm of Life.”
The Conference was adjourned to the As-
sembly Hall for the following morning
where there would be plenty of room.
	There was an enthusiastic meeting in the
morning of Tuesday, and in the afternoon
the ladies with about a hundred and twenty
five others went out to see the Lake and
the elegant pavilion at Saltair. Col. N. W.
Clayton, with his usual graciousness, kind-
ly consented to put two cars at the disposal
of the party, Mrs Clayton accompanying
the distinguished visitors. In the evening
the Assembly Hall was filled to overflowing
notwithstanding the many attractions there
were at other places the same evening.
	Hon. John T. Caine made the opening
prayer, and Miss Maude Pratt sang ex-
quisitely the beautiful song entitled “My
heart at thy sweet rest.” The speakers
were Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury whose
paper was itself a volume of interesting
matter and very telling.
	Miss Anthony in her own original man-
ner gave a logical clear and forcible as well
as very pleasing address.
	Miss Shaw was the last speaker and car-
ried the audience in one almost continuous
round of applause.
	At 10-30, Mrs. E. B. Wells adjourned
the National Conference after the following
resolution, presented by Mrs. Mary Carrol
Craig Bradford, of Colorado had been
adopted.
	Whereas, great gains in the suffrage sen-
timent and achievement have made the last
year memorable: and
	Whereas, The women who have strug-
gled so long in order that the ideal Ameri-
can republic might become real have reason
to hope that the final incarnation of justice
in American institutions is near at hand;
and
	Whereas, The five states of New York,
Oregon, Nevada, Idaho and Utah have de-
termined to submit the question of full suf-
frage for women; and
	Whereas, The women of two states al-
ready possess full suffrage and the women
of one state municipal suffrage, and school
suffrage is enjoyed by the women of twenty-
five states: and
	Whereas the men of Utah have seen fit
to build the foundation of their new State
upon absolute justice, equality and freedom:
therefore be it
	Resolved, That the sentiment of this
conference is one of profound gratitude to
the men of Utah who have so unequivocally
and practically witnessed to their faith in
the principle of exact justice to all the citi-
zens of this new and glorious common-
wealth.”
	The visit of Miss Anthony and the Rev.
Anna H. Shaw is an event that will ever
be remembered as a red-letter day in the
history of the Territory, and the entire pro-
ceedings will be published at an early date.
We very much regret the limited space
which prevents our giving it all at once.


We are very grateful to the daily papers
that have devoted so much space to the wo-
man question, and have given such splendid
accounts of the proceedings of the Confer-
ence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE CONVENTION ADJOURNED.

	ON Wednesday May 8th, the Constitu-
tional Convention which had been in ses- 
sion sixty-six days adjourned sine die, hav-
ing completed their work satisfactorily to
themselves; the members were anxious to
go to their homes and resume work in other
directions. The Constitution makers must
now be judged by the work itself when
submitted to the people as a whole. How-
ever there is little if any doubt as to the
final result when it comes before the legal
voters of the Territory. There is where the
test will be made, and we believe the victory
won. Statehood is preferable to Territorial
vassalage in which Utah has been kept so
long, and has waited for so patiently.
	There was considerable mutual congratu-
lation among the members on the success 
that had attended their efforts, and alto-
gether the winding up of the affair seemed
a happy termination of what has been, dur-
ing a part of the time at least, rather un-
pleasant working at cross purposes.
	This was particularly the case when the
subject of equal suffrage was on the tapis.
But finally the victory was on the right
side, and the winners were very magnani- 
mous towards the losers, and good feeling
and comradeship prevailed again after the
combat of words.
	The women of the Territory who were
anxious for equal rights and privileges were
exceedingly grateful to those who stood
fearlessly by their cause through the strug-
gle for their enfranchisement, and were
desirous of making some suitable expression
of their gratitude and acknowledgment of
services rendered: and realizing the arduous
labors of all who had taken part in the
work of the Convention, decided to make a
public demonstration that would show the
interest they felt, and their sincere ap-
preciation of the work of this great body
of delegates who were representing in the
assembly the people of the Territory.
	At last it was decided to give a public re-
ception at the Hotel Templeton, that these
men from all parts of the Territory might
meet as large a number as possible of the
people of Salt Lake City. It was entirely
voluntary on the part of the women who
made all the arrangements and carried out
the plan proposed that it should be a purely,
social entertainment. That it really was so
cannot be denied.
	And when the Constitution was finished
and the engrossed copy had been signed by
ninety nine members out of the one hun-
dred and seven the President announced
that it had been adopted. (Applause.)
There were no negative votes. 

SPEECH BY THE GOVERNOR.
“I presume that you have had enough of
speech-making during the sixty-six days
that you have been in session and I will
therefore not detain you very long. I thank
you kindly for this opportunity of making a
few remarks. While there may be some
things in the Constitution that I do not ap-
prove of, yet as a whole I give it my hearti-
est endorsement and believe that it voices
the sentiments of the great majority of the
people of this Territory. The unanimity

[Column 2]
that has existed between you in this work
bespeaks in advance the adoption of the in-
strument. The differences that have existed
among the people will disappear like the
night’s frost before the morning sun.
Your work has been well and faithfully
done and you need have no fears of the re-
sult for I say again that it will be received
by great acclaim, and rejoicing over the
prospect that Utah is to be disenthralled and
clothed with the full power of Statehood,
and be made a part of the greatest Republic
the world has ever seen. (Applause.)

DELIVERED TO THE SECRETARY OF
THE TERRITORY.
	At the conclusion of the Governor’s ad-
dress F. S. Richards offered the following
resolution:
	Resolved, That the Constitution having
been adopted and signed by a majority of
all the members of the Convention, and
duly attested, be now delivered to the Sec-
retary of the Territory, who is present in
Convention, to be filed in his office.
	The Constitution was here formally turn-
ed over to Territorial Secretary Richards
who on adjournment immediately took it to
the executive building for safe keeping.

VARIAN CONGRATULATES.
	“As we are now about to separate, I
think we have good cause to congratulate
each other, if for nothing else because of
the fact that this Convention has demon-
strated beyond the peradventure of doubt,
that all that was needed to unify the people
of this soon to be State, was to bring their
representatives together from every part of
the commonwealth so as they could look in-
to each other’s faces, judge each other’s
motives and learn that we are practically
the members of one great family. The re-
sult has been that every man has been lib-
eralized in his views We have found that
we are very much alike; that we are actuat-
ed by the same passions and motives, and
that we have had but one idea—duty. We
have felt that this Convention was fraught
with a grave responsibility and every man
has been impelled to put forth his best en-
deavors. No delegate can possibly carry
away with him any other impression than
he still has a part of his duty to perform.
That is to support the joint results of the
Convention. We have been laying the
foundations for building and lifting up a
great commonwealth. The dead past has
buried the past, and we have set our faces
towards the rising sun of the future. If
our work should fail we will have the conso-
lation of knowing that we are not to blame;
that it will not be our fault. We have
fought the good fight; we have kept the
faith, and if there is nothing further to do,
I move that this Convention adjourn, sine
die.”

THE PRESIDENT’S VALEDICTORY.
	The President was called for, and said
that in the closing hours of the Conven-
tion he desired to express his thanks to the
delegates for the regard and kindly treat-
ment they had shown him as the presiding
officer over their deliberations. He trusted
their experience would find embodiment and
life in the remarks of Mr. Varian. The
Constitution had been finished and placed
in the hands of the proper officers, and he
hoped that future generations would look
upon it as an instrument of freedom and
safety. He invoked the blessings of
heaven upon the Constitution framers and

[Column 3]
concluded by saying: “I will now call up-
on the oldest delegate to offer prayer. Mr.
Raleigh will you pronounce the benedic-
tion?
	Mr. Raleigh, offered the closing prayer
and at precisely 2:15 the Convention ad-
journed sine die.


U. W. P. C.

	ON Tuesday evening April 30th, the
Utah Woman’s Press and Reaper’s clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s clubs.
	The officers who responded were Mrs.
Corinne M. Allen, president. Mrs. McVick-
er secretary. Miss Georgia Webber, treas-
urer. Mrs. Ferdinand Fabian and Miss-
May Teasdel, directors were present.
	The reception was held at the residence
of Mrs. H. S. Young and was a pleasant
affair. The evening was somewhat marred
however, by the absence of Honorary-
President E. B. Wells, who was expected
to preside, and also President E. R. Shipp
of the Press club. First Vice President
Ruth M. Fox, of the Press Club presided.
The members responded to roll call by
giving original sentiments, or a quotation
from the Bible. Mrs. Anna K. Hardy read
a letter of regret from Mrs. E. B. Wells an-
nouncing that, the death of a dear friend
and relative, had made it impossible for
her to attend.
	Vice President Fox, gave the speech of
welcome which was pleasantly responded to
by the visiting ladies. The Misses Emma
and Lyle Young then favored the company
with a duett. Miss Laura Hyde recited
“Nanny the Baby.” Mrs. R. M. Fox read
an original poem, “April.” Miss Maude
Pratt sang a beautiful song. Mrs. Laura
Miner made a neat little speech showing the
advancement of woman in the last forty
years and read a short original poem on the
subject, she was heartily applauded. Little
Frances Young gave a recitation and dance,
“Long Ago.” Then piano music by Miss
Olea Shipp: the ladies partook of refresh-
ments, and social chat was indulged in un-
til the time of parting. The badge of the
Reaper’s Club was displayed for the first
time that evening; which is three heads of
wheat tied with a bow of scarlet ribbon.
The rooms were prettily decorated with
spring flowers.
				LIZZIE S. WICOX, Sec.


SILK EXHIBIT FOR ATLANTA.

	IN Group 10—Class 47, among animal
and vegetable fibers, exhibits are mentioned
—Silk worms, silk in the cocoons: appara-
tus used in silk culture.
	In Group 41. Class 188. Raw silk as
reeled from the cocoon, thrown or twisted
silks in the green, boiled off or dyed in
hanks, skeins, or on spools: machine twist
and sewing silks.
	Class 189. Spun silk yarn and fabrics,
plain woven silks, lute-strings, sarsanets,
satins, serges, foulards; tissue for hat and
millinery purposes. Class 190. Figured
silk, piece goods, woven or printed upholstery,
silks etc.
	The foregoing is copied from the book of
Classification of Exhibit for the Cotton
States and International Exposition.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CURRENT LITERATURE.

[Including sketch of Fannie Fern.]
	IN this day when printed matter is
multiplied almost innumerably one cannot
keep up with reading even in the case of
books alone, and as for magazine and news-
paper articles it is entirely out of the
question; still when one looks upon the
class of literature of the present time, there
are some very excellent and useful new
books; and there are periodicals by the
wholesale containing ably written and in-
structive essays and papers on a variety of
practical, moral, and intellectual, as well as
metaphysical subjects.
	The Arena is classed about the foremost
of monthly journals at present, as compris-
ing the important subjects and live issues
and topics of the day, and time, and one
might get a very good idea of how the world
is rapidly moving on, by merely a thorough
perusal of this one magazine. It is how-
ever very expensive and one is apt to take
regularly to a cheaper journal with matter
more miscellaneous and varied, if not of so
high a grade.
	Speaking of books and their authors I am
constrained to mention Lilian Whiting’s,
“The World Beautiful” published in Bos-
ton last year. It is indeed a beautiful book,
and one cannot hesitate in giving such a
book to young people to read and pon-
der, it is poetry in prose, and truth in the
most delightful setting. There are so many
true sayings in it to cull from, that to turn
over half a dozen pages, one may greatly
enrich the store of thought; and the won-
der is how she could so clearly express the
thoughts that other women have felt just as
keenly perhaps, but were not able to give
even rude setting to, whereas Miss Whiting
has all her fine sayings dazzlingly polished,
and sharp-pointed.
	One chapter treating upon “Success as a
fine art” contains the following paragraph
which is as familiar to me in substance as
possible, and I am very grateful for the
fine arrangement of her wording.
	“To believe and go forward is the key to
success and to happiness. Doubt and dis-
trust are the negative and corrosive forces.
The enthusiasm for a high purpose calls in-
to being the agencies by means of which it
may be accomplished. Great powers attend
great thoughts, and, above all and beyond
all, among the creative forces is the power
of a great faith.
	“No life is successful unless it is radiant”
she says again. And later on in the same
chapter she says, “The one great truth to
which we all need to come is, that a suc-
cessful life, lies not in doing this, or going
there, or possessing something else; it lies
in the quality of the daily life.”
	In another chapter entitled “In newness
of Life” there are many things correspond-
ing to our belief in reference to prayer,
and answers to prayer, actually as marvel-
ous as circumstances in the history of our
Elders, when away upon missions, means
has been put into their possession
mysteriously as it were in answer to prayer,
and sometimes even when only through an
almost unconscious faith. After giving
some such examples she adds, "Humanity
needs to draw on its resources of Christian
faith,” and beyond this I believe more, that
humanity is now on the verge of the dis-
covery, and the development of this law.”
	I could go on quoting to the extent of the
time allotted me from this charming book,

[Column 2]
but I realize I must not dwell too long upon
one, when there are so many, but for our
Y. L. M. I. A. libraries, I do not know a
book more suitable, or one more likely to
help the student. Lilian Whiting is the
sister of Prof. Whiting of the Utah Univer-
sity, with whom you are most of you pos-
sibly acquainted. The family on the father’s
side are descended from Cotton Mather, and
on the mother’s side she is also of New
England people, though born in Niagara
Falls, New York. She was first employed
as a writer on the Cincinnati Commercial
and in 1880 went to Boston and began work
on the Evening Traveler as an art—writer;
in 1885 was made literary editor, and in
1890, took the editor-ship in chief of the
Boston Budget, which position she still oc-
cupies as far as I know. She is of medium
height, slight in figure, blue eyes, and light
sunny hair.
	I think it well we should know some-
thing of literary women, we are likely to
meet and that some of our sisters already
know, and who have shown us some atten-
tion, and so I want to tell you of Martha D.
Lincoln, whose nom de plume is Bessie
Beech author and journalist, she is the niece
of Brother Albert Brown and the cousin of
Samuel Brown of the Twenty-second Ward.
She entertained our Utah sisters in Wash-
ington this last winter one evening at a party
given to a house full of people, and urged
us to talk on our own subjects truly, and
though only Dr. Shipp, Mrs. Gates and
myself were present, we had a pleasant
time; afterwards we were all invited to dine
there but unfortunately we did not all ar-
rive in time. Mrs. Lincoln is much more
prominent than even our sisters who met
her are probably aware. She is very unas-
suming, but has been a very clever journal-
st and is still. She was born at Richfield
Springs N. Y. and educated near by, but
begun literary work at sixteen, contributing
to the “Morning Star” published at Dover
N. H. She married a medical student, who
has for many years been a semi-invalid;
they moved to Washington in 1871—and
the financial crisis of that period wrecked
her husband’s fortune and Mrs. Lincoln
then took to journalistic work in real earnest.
She corresponded regularly for the Daily
Chronicle, Republican, Union and Republic
and several Sunday Journals and also kept
up her connection with papers outside of
Washington. She wrote up President and
Mrs. Hayes silver wedding in the White
House and real weddings in that historic
house for the New York Tribune, New
York Sun, and Jamestown Daily Journal,
was reporter for the Cleveland Plain Dealer
at the same time, it is said the amount of
work she turned out was very remarkable.
In connection with two other journalists
she organized the National Press Associa-
tion, in Washington, July 10, 1882, it is
the first chartered Press Association in the
world. She was its first secretary and for
several years President. Her literary works
are “Beech Leaves” poems and “Central
Figures in American Science.” She does
many biographical sketches of famous wo-
men and is specially clever in childrens’
books. In 1891—she was appointed dele-
gate to the International Peace Congress in
Rome, and again in 1892 to the Congress in
Berne, Switzerland. The same year she
was elected President of the American
Society of Authors for Washington D. C.
which position she fills at present. She is a
tiny little creature, is very fond of her home

[Column 3]
and has decidedly domestic tastes. Mr. and
Mrs. Lincoln have one only son, he is mar-
ried and his mother is very proud of
being a grandma. Miss Mary E. Wil-
kins has two new books which have at-
tracted much attention of late—Pembroke
a typical New England Story of distinctively
Puritanical ideas, a type which we New
Englanders know so well, but that many
people would think overdrawn. It is amus-
ing in some parts, witty too, but affecting
in respect to sternness, rigidity and the sup-
pression of all emotional characteristics to
conform to the rules of propriety; the
self-abnegation that one will endure rather
than let their true feelings be known, and
the pride which supports one on the border 
of starvation, lest the neighbors should
know it, are all faithfully depicted. It is a
finely drawn pen picture of what might
easily have occurred, and the main points
are true to life. The “New England Nun” 
and other stories is her latest book, and is a
collection of short stories, that are very
popular, hen-pecked husbands and domineer-
ing wives, and husbands who took excellent
care of their stock, who had barns, saddle
and carriage houses, all sorts of farming im-
plements and plenty of help, but who left
the wife and daughters a house not as good
as the barn to live in, and all the hard work
of a farmer’s wife to do, but never considered
her need of help, or rooms in which to make
a family comfortable; all these are set forth
vividly. The descriptions of pine woods
and shrubbery the old-fashioned flower
gardens, with sweet peas and four o’clocks,
the meadows fresh with cowslips and clover,
all the charm of rural life is beautifully told
along with the stories; the morals are all
good, there is no lackadasicalness about
them; they are such vivid pictures of inci-
dents and scenery that you might shut your
eyes and see the representation, and almost
catch the odor of the pines and hear the rip-
pling brooks. Miss Wilkins was born in
Randolph, Mass., and comes of an old New
England family. She was educated at
Holyoke, her father died when she was
twenty two and it is said she is the last of
her family; her first success in writing,
though she had written several things be-
fore, was a prize story for a Boston paper,
and she soon became well known afterwards
as a regular contributor to periodicals. The
first production she was paid for, was a bal-
lad for Wide Awake, she wrote for the
Budget, Harper's Bazar, Weekly Maga-
zine and Young People. She has published
several books, her best works besides those
have mentioned are “The Humble ro-
mance,” “Two Old Lovers,” “A
Symphony in Lavender,” I cannot speak
of these from experience as I have never
read them; but her books and stories are
very popular and as she is still a young wo-
man she may yet attain greater celebrity,
than even by her stories and verses.
Maria Louise Pool is another New Eng-
land writer who is creating a sensation with
her books, so truthfully characteristic are
they of country and village life and the
humdrum common-places of the great mass
of the working people, that they appeal to
the hearts of the readers of this class of
literature pathetically. The shrewdness
and thrift, the reticence and silence, that
covers the warm and kindly heart, the New
England exclusiveness, the individual and
specific details, all help to make her books
characters of real everyday folks. She has
lived until recently in an old-farm house


[Column 1]
away up in the country; she is not young,
but her life has been a very congenial one,
free from the vicissitudes that break in up-
on this class of work. Miss Pool was born
near the seashore in the old Bay State, and
Boston was of course the “Mecca of her
hopes.” She wrote first for newspapers,
her first book was a collection of letters en-
titled “A vacation in a buggy.” It is said
all her books have an individual flavor and
freshness very attractive. Tenting at Stony
Beach and Dally were among her first nov-
els. then came Roweny in Boston, Mrs. Keat
Bradford, “The two Salvinis, Katherine
North” and “Out of Step.” She has work-
ed hard and has had many refusals, of her
work though apparently she was nothing
daunted. She says she has a collection of
printed forms of refusals from publishers.
For some years while doing so much literary
work she kept a riding pony, and she also
drove a horse, which exercise brushed away
the cobwebs from her brain; she always
works from nine to twelve in the morning;
at present she is taking a rest on account of 
her health.
	Marie Corelli has been written up once
by one of the members of this club and
I will only mention her new book “The
Silence of the Maharajah,” it is in the
"Violet Series” a new style of binding,
very dainty in cover with illustrations of the
subject that are extra fine; the book describes
English society in India and the entertain-
ment of an East Indian Prince by the Society
people; it is a queer book like most of her
work and can scarcely be called good, mor-
ally, yet it is meant to give the contrast be-
tween vices of our own country and the
heathen, or oriental superstitions and beliefs,
placing us as civilized people at a decided
disadvantage. But Marie Correlli must be
a powerful genius; she deals largely in the
marvelous and attempts great heights and
flights of fancy and sometimes she comes
down to earth suddenly and disappoints us
sadly, but taken as a whole her books are
very fascinating, so different from other
people’s books that one must admit she has
developed a new style. It is not more than
six years since her books came out, and in
that time her fame has reached through the
world. I believe I have read all her books
except one “Barabbas” that I have not seen
or even a review of it though I confess I
should like to, “Thelma” is certainly her
best in my judgment and is vividly written.
Every Norwegian ought to read it, the word
painting is specially fine and the story of the
land of the Norsemen is rich in beauty of
land and sky, salt seas and raging billows,
ice and snow, making a strong impression
upon the reader who in imagination is
carried away to this beautiful far-off
country of the midnight sun. Miss
Correlli is a Venetian type of beauty, light
and fair with fluffy golden hair, and very
girlish in style and manner, her eyes are
blue, her smile charming, and she has beauti-
ful teeth and exquisite hands; she is a bril-
liant talker but does not speak much of her-
self; evidently she is of a high order of in-
tellectuality as one must judge from her
books as well as the description of her per-
sonality. She has had very strange experi-
ences, akin to revelation which have so im-
pressed her that she cannot be persuaded to
speak of them. She is decidedly un-
orthodox, though she is a Roman Catho-
lic yet the devout Catholic regards her as a
heretic.
	Fanny Fern some years ago created quite

[Column 2]
a furore in the literary world of that date.
Undoubtedly she was a decided genius, and
most of us who lived so long ago, recollect
with what eagerness we looked forward for
the New York Ledger, not only for Mrs.
E. D. N. Southworth’s novels but Fanny
Fern’s racy articles so keen and cutting on
every question of the time. Her books are
still read with great interest by all old-
fashioned people and are well calculated to
impress young people with correct ideas of
life. Her style was rich and graceful as
well as humorous, and the world were
ready enough to admit she was highly gifted,
though it was not known until after a strug-
gle with poverty and troubles that made it
positively necessary for her to make an ex-
tra exertion to obtain a livelihood. Her real
name was Sarah Payson Willis and she was
born in Portland Maine July 9th 1811—her
father was a compositor and editor and her
brother N. P. Willis the poet. In her girl-
hood she was fond of books though not of
regular study and she often played truant,
she was very mischievous and played all
sorts of naughty tricks making her little
friends uncomfortable by turns; she liked
to be out of doors and in fact was somewhat
unmanagable. Her father a strong
orthodox was a great believer in what
Yankees call “the becomings”—and there-
fore could not understand his daughter’s
waywardness. As she grew older she was
decidedly charming, but she loved freedom
and was in no hurry to marry though she
had many admirers; at twenty-six she mar-
ried Mr. Eldredge, cashier in a bank, son of
a Boston physician; the young husband
loved his wife almost to idolatry it is said,
they had three little girls, one of them died
of croup at three years of age, almost break-
ing the hearts of the doating parents, but
five years after the father and husband was
taken in the glory of his manhood and the
young wife was left a widow with two little
children to face the world alone. It is said
she went to her brother who was at that
time prosperous for advice in reference to
writing with a view of earning money, but
he discouraged her and offered no assistance,
though it is quite probable he did not know
of her destitute circumstances, as her hus-
band’s father had rendered her some help 
and had taken one of the children home to
relieve her cares. She did not heed her
brother’s advice but commenced writing, and
soon realized something substantial in the
way of remuneration; her family not sus-
pecting her nom de plume, were profuse in
praise of the young writer who was extra-
ordinarily fast becoming famous. Her book
Shadows and Sunbeams, is in every library
in the land, and other stories of hers are as
great favorites now as they were formerly
to those who are acquainted with the best
books; but taken in its broadest sense the
articles she wrote for the New York Ledger
were the best known and gave her greatest
celebrity. After living a widow until her
children were grown and she herself had a 
world-wide reputation as a writer Mrs.
Eldredge married James Parton, who was a
newspaper man and a magazine writer well
known to the general public. They lived
in New York City and were very devoted
and happy. Some years ago Mrs. Parton
died, though she maintained her brilliant
reputation as a writer until her last fatal ill-
ness. After her death Mr. Parton and the
daughter continued the house-keeping and
finally he married her daughter.
E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FIFTH WARD LOGAN.
	MINUTES of the morning session, of the 
Fifth Ward Primary Anniversary, held in
the Meeting House, Tuesday April 23, 1895.
	President Mary H. Anderson presiding.
Meeting commenced by singing “Joseph
Smith’s First Prayer.” Prayer was offered 
by Sister Sarah H. Taylor. Singing, “Did
You Think to Pray.” Roll was called and
minutes of morning meeting of last an-
niversary were read and accepted with an 
amendment. Counselor Leoline Hurst
read the opening address in verse composed
by Sister Hattie C. Jenson (which we omit
for lack of space.)
	A recitation was nicely rendered by
Wesley Anderson. Aurelia and Fanny
Burnett sang a song entitled, “In the
Meadows,” A recitation entitled “Good
Morning,” was given by Janet Nelson. A
recitation entitled “Our Baby Boy” was
given by Violet Peterson. Questions and
answers on Church History were given by
a class of little boys and girls. Barbara 
Wilson gave a recitation entitled “Good
Manners.” A selection entitled “Our
Primary” was rendered by a class of little
boys and girls. Stake President Jane E.
Molen said she was struck so forcibly, when
saying her prayers this morning, to ask the
Lord to assist her on her journey. Before
reaching here my horse took sick and I was
afraid I would be unable to get here, but
the Lord answered my prayer, and so al-
lowed me to meet with you. Always listen 
to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, was
pleased to see the little boys step aside, and 
let the little girls pass from the stand first.
	Our primaries are for the purpose of mak-
ing us better Latter-day saints and to pre-
pare ourselves to grow up to be good and 
pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly 
Father; also to teach us to be gentlemen
and ladies, was pleased to hear that the
children cleaned the Meeting House. A
sketch on the life of President Brigham
Young was read by Harry Severn. A song
entitled “Did Jesus Love Them” was given 
by a number of boys and girls. Stake
Counselor Mattie B. Hanson said it would
be impossible to tell how pleased she had
been in listening to the exercises this morn-
ing. Some day all of you little boys will
be called on missions, if you live so as to 
be worthy of it; and if you do not know 
that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, fast and pray earnestly
and the Lord will give you a testimony for 
he said, “Ask and you shall receive,” but
we must be faithful and believe that he will
answer our prayers, What a beautiful as-
sociation you have! Your President and 
Counselors come to meeting week after
week to teach and instruct you, because of
the love they have toward you. Bishop
William Hyde said the Lord would bless
and comfort the parents of these children, if
they would come and visit the Primary once
in a while to see what the children were do-
ing, was pleased to see the children have so 
much faith. Asked the children to invite
their parents to visit with us in our meet-
ing this afternoon. Meeting was brought 
to a close by singing, “Zion is growing.”
President Anderson asked all the children

[Column 2]
to act as missionaries between meetings, 
and get as many to come as possible.
Benediction by Stake Counselor Emma
Pike.
	Minutes of afternoon meeting, President
Mary H. Anderson presiding. Meeting 
commenced by singing, “In our lovely
Deseret.” Prayer by Sister Priscilla Jacobs.
Singing “The Forest Song.” Minutes of
afternoon meeting of the last anniversary, were
read and aceepted. The exercises were
rendered as follows:—A moral story was 
given by Willie Hugi. A sketch on the 
life of President John Taylor was read by
Sarah Taylor. Song, “Think on These
Things” was given by a class of boys and
girls. A selection “The first principles of
the Gospel” was given by a class of little
boys and girls. Instrumental music was 
given by George Anderson.
	Stake Counselor Emma Pike said she was 
pleased to see so many parents here, as she
knew they would be paid for it. My heart
has been filled with joy to see the children 
take their part so well. I am sure the
angels are pleased with it too. I always 
feel at home when I come to the fifth ward
as I was present at the first organization.
Always remember that the eye of the Lord
is on you, no matter where you are, so we
should all try to be good and faithful child-
ren obey your parents, for the Lord says
“Honor thy Father and thy mother that
thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Hoped
and prayed that the children would remem-
ber their prayers. I am pleased to see Sis-
ter Jacobs and Sister Kent with us this
afternoon. Nellie Hayball gave a recita-
tion entitled “Christmas Eve.” Wesley
Anderson gave a recitation. Kate Ander-
son and Sarah Taylor sang a song entitled,
"What is home without a mother.” Sister
Priscilla Jacobs said I want to be obedient
and respond when called upon, I am pleased
with the good order that has been main-
tained also for the parts that have been 
rendered. I have not seen the day that I
could not say “God bless the Primary
Children.” I am glad that I have lived to 
see the day that order has been maintained
in Primary, as “order” is one of the first laws
of Heaven. We ought all to improve and 
grow better each year. I am sure the bless-
ing of the Lord is poured out upon us.
Always listen to the promptings of the
spirit of the Lord because he has given
each of us a portion of his holy spirit. I 
am sure I have been well paid for coming.
Sister Mary Kent was truly thankful that
she had the privilege of meeting with us
today in the thirteenth anniversary. I am
glad to see the improvement you are mak-
ing. Always be polite to the aged and 
obedient to your president. Nellie Hurst
gave a recitation entitled “A Mother’s In-
fluence.” A sketch on the life of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff was read by George
Anderson. Song, “Suffer little children to
come unto, me” by the Association.
	The Lord’s Prayer was repeated by Archie 
McNeil, Sister Agnes T. Swartz said it
won’t be long before you will be walking
off into the Y. L. and Y. M. Associations.
If you try and learn now, when you are
called on missions, you will be prepared
to go. Stake President Jane E. Molen
asked for a vote of all the little boys that
would like to be called on missions when
they grew up. Read the Book of Mormon, 
and pray over it, then you will get a testi-
mony of the truth of this gospel. I was so 
pleased to hear the sentiments that were

[Column 3]
given at roll call. Be kind to your parents.
Have a place for everything and put every-
thing in its place. Prayed that we would
all grow up to be good men and women in
the sight of God. The officers were all
voted in. Bishop William Hyde said our
records are sacred and should be kept.
President Mary H. Anderson felt that she 
owed a vote of thanks to the visitors that
have met with us today. Meeting was
brought to a close by singing “We are the
children of the Saints.” Benediction by
Sister Harriet E. Stowell. Mary H. 
Anderson President. Mary Sorenson First
ounselr, Loioline Hurst Second Coun-
selor.		EMMA BUNCE, Sec.


MRS. MARTHA M. DAVIDSON daughter of the
late Bishop Maughen of Cache County and of
Mrs. Mary A Maughan of Logan departed this
life Feb. 4, 1895, Mrs. Davidson was born Nov.
4, 1858, at Three Mile Creek Box Elder Co. she
resided in Greenville Cache Co at the time of
his demise. Deased leaves a kind husband and
seven children (one only an infant) to mourn her
loss. Her aged mother is deeply afflicted at
parting from her beloved daughter who had al
ways been a loving and affectionate child, to her
parents and a very constant and devoted wife and
mother to her family. She was beloved and
greatly respected by all who knew her. She died
in full faith of the Gospel—blessed be her mem-
ory, may our Father in heaven comfort the be-
reaved and give unto them His Holy Spirit to
sustain them in their affliction.
								COM.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


HYGIENE AND PHYSIOLOGY.

	SISTER HANNAH SORENSEN has just
started one of her classes here in the City—
it is held in the Social Hall, State Street.
Four days in the week—term to last seven
weeks, three hour lessons each day.
	The special subjects treated upon in these
classes are Hygiene, Physiology of woman and
Obstetrics, as far, as that science is practi-
cally beneficial for women to possess—who,
are mothers or expect to be mothers. The
object of these classes, is to assist woman in
learning her true mission in life and to be
more willing to fill it—to help her to realize
the glorious privilege of rearing God’s
children—to establish greater purity, to at-
tain to better health and higher happiness,
to help lengthen out, human existence here
upon earth. It is pleasing to know, that
these classes are most appreciated where
they have been taught. Societies in that
line, are now permanently organized in
several Counties, Utah Co., Cache Co.,
Wayne Co., and two counties in Idaho.
	It is desirable that as many of the Salt
Lake City women as possible, would unite
themselves with this class, now in operation
here in the city, as it has proved, that this
work is conducive of much good.

