LESSON IV (Fourth Week in June) Social Service SocrtaAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION The educational program is, in our democracy, a state affair. An appreciation of the necessity and value of edcuation by the 
 people generally, has led to the development of an extensive and elaborate system of state education. That the state has the power to make school attendance of children compulsory, is a recognized and accepted fact. That taxes should be levied for the support of the school system, is also an unquestioned institution. That educational legislation and appropriations vary, of course, in the different states. Utah's school attendance act is one of the most advanced of the time. The present statute provides that all children between the ages of 8 and 18 shall be in attendance at school unless the child has completed the senior high school. When he reaches 16, if his services are needed by a widow or by an invalid father, or if his health makes school attendance unadvisable, he may be allowed to discontinue regular school and attend part-time school. Until children are 18, or have completed the regular high school, they are not permitted to enter industry, unless satisfactory arrangements are made for them to enter a part-time class. This part-time school work may te taken a certain number of hours each week, or a certain number of weeks each year. The total must be 144 hours per year. In order to maintain the educational standards set by the community, the schools of a metropolis usually have their own special officers or staff members to supervise entrance, nonattendance, truancy, and later, the vocational guidance of children entering industry. Often trained social workers are employed to give the kind of expert attention that is needed to assist dependent, neglected, or problem children, to make the necessary adjustment in school or in industry. In smaller communities, the principals and teachers have the responsibility of handling these social problems which arise in the school. Many of the problems of attendance and conduct that must be met in school are fundamentally social difficulties that have their bases in a faulty home environment. For this reason the school often finds it necessary to ask the aid of some family agency to assist in treating the problem. The social worker who is visiting a family often has an insight into the family difficulties, which is presented to the school, gives the school a better understandng of the situation. A close relationship should exist between school and family visitor, for both are observing the members of the family?their health, habits, abilities, etc??and both are working fundamentally toward the same end. Both aim to contribute to the growth, the development, and the stability of the individuals with whom they work. A child usually enters school soon after his sixth birthday. In a well-adjusted family this is understood and the necessary preparations are made as a matter of course and are often eagerly anticipated. The first day at school is something of an event to the child and also to the parents. But if the parents do not understand English, and are unaware of the school regulations, or if the mother is ill and the extra effort of making school clothes is a task she cannot undertake, or if there is actually no money with which to buy the necessary dress or pair of shoes, the first day at school is likely to be delayed. A family who has suffered the hardships of illness, unemployment, inadequate income, etc., frequently find it necessary to postpone the children's entrance in school, and if there is no outside interference or assistance in the interest of the children, non-attendance may continue from month to month and even from year to year. Even after the children have been formally entered in school their regular attendance is not assured. The same family difficulties that kept the children from entering promptly, will tend to make them spasmodic and irregular in their attendance.: It is obvious that merely to "order" children to report at school is unreasonable and often futile. The whole family may need readjustment before regular attendance can be expected. Perhaps employment is needed for the man out of work, or an income for a widow, or a housekeeper for a widower. Perhaps standards of household management and habits of regularity need to be introduced. It may take a long period of time to introduce the new habits and construct a new mode of living. Infinite skill and patience are needed by a person who attempts to reconstruct a family's standard of living. If such a program of social treatment is necessary to raise a family to a higher standard, and incidentally to insure a more regular attendance and a better appreciation of educational opportunities, the task of family rehabilitation belongs to the social worker rather than to the school. Non-attendance at school is not the only difficulty that the teacher or principal and the family visitor can share. The difficult child, the rowdy one, and the one failing in school work, is perhaps a problem because of some maladjustment at home. The lack of the material necessities of life can account for much abnormal behavior. Likewise, if a child is not well, or if he cannot sleep because of the lack of adequate covering, or if he has not had sufficient nourishing food, he is likely to be listless and slow at his school work. If there is unhappiness and friction in the home circle, the children naturally will develop an irritability and a nervousness that will make for undesirable conduct in the school room and on the play ground. A sensitive child may be made to suffer and consequently 
 behave "queerly" because of a lack of understanding at home. The following incident illustrates one child's emotional problem, and the simple treatment that removed the cause of the difficulty. A young girl appeared to be so stupid at school that until an examination by a psychologist was made it was thought that she was not quite normal. The difficulty had its chief cause in the behavior of the family towards the child. The younger brother was obviously the favorite at home because both parents had looked forward to the advent of their first son. The boy was given precedence in everything and nothing but reproach was given the girl. She was continually being compared with her brother to her own disadvantage. She would hear her mother tell visitors of her brother's cleverness and of her own shyness and backwardness. It was not surprising therefore that she should have been quiet and timid in school. Ever since she had been able to remember, her every effort at self-expression had been discourged before it had had a chance to start. Daily she was being told that she was an inferior person, that she was capable of nothing, and that she amounted to nothing. She was now bound up as effectively as if she had been in chains. Because of her family's conduct, she was shut up within herself so com~ pletely she could not adjust to her home or her school life. Only after the parents had been shown the part they were playing in their daughter's unhappiness did the child begin to receive the opportunities she needed. A changed atmosphere at home and special attention in school released her from her fears and her timidness and stimulated her to the use of her abilities. A new development of school service in the larger cities is that of a visiting teacher. The qualifications for this position include both teaching and social work experience. Children who present health or behavior problems or who give other evidences of poor care or misunderstanding, are referred to the visiting teacher for study and treatment. Because of the visiting teacher's ability to observe the child, both in the school and in the home environment, she can give the special care that difficult children require. ? When children reach the age where they are permitted to leave school and enter industry, many new problems arise. It is, of course, important to prolong the educational period as long as possible for those who have aptitudes for academic work. It is often excellent economy to supplement a family's income for a few years in order to give able, ambitious children the advantage of further school work. In some instances, however, it may be advisable to start early to give specialized training for a particular industry. Decisions regarding the continuation of the educational period should be based on the child's ability, his health, his ambitions, and the standards of the family. Boys and girls who leave school to go to work as soon as the school law permits, are not likely to be very fortunate in the choice of an occupation unless some guidance is given to them. In consequence of the growing realization of the number of industrial failures, and the economic waste caused by haphazard selection of vocations, both schools and industrial concerns are making attempts to place children in positions for which they are fitted. For instance, factory work, because of its monotony, might be depressing and discouraging to a high-tempered, lively young boy. Because of the deadening routine he is likely to quit his job some day, or perhaps even leave home and seek adventure on the open road or ina new town. If his job had appealed to some ambition he had entertained, or perhaps to his natural youthful desire for romance and adventure, he would doubtless have become a steady workman. His own ambitions and tastes should have been consulted. The factory work might have appealed to another boy who would like the opportunity to do work with his hands, to associate with pleasant people, and to gain the satisfaction and security that come with being part of an established, reliable organization. Vocational guidance undoubtedly should begin while the children are yet in school, giving them opportunity, without economic loss, to discover their aptitudes and abilities. There is some danger, of course, of specializing too early, for the selection of a life occupation requires mature judgment. Vocational guidance should not be discontinued when the child accepts his first position in industry. Supervision, given either by industrial concerns or by the continuation schools, should be extended until a satisfactory transfer has been made from school to industrial life. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 69-79. Questions and Problems 1. What are the school attendance regulations of your state? 2. Why are school problems with children often family problems? 3. How can parents and social workers cooperate with schools? 4. How can parents assist in choosing vocations for their children? 5. Why is it important to permit the child to have a voice in the selection of his vocation?