[Vol12 | April 1925 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Influence Henry Van Dyke]
While the influences which determined that the pioneers settle in villages are quite well known, it may be interesting to enumerate them here.

In the first place, it was necessary that people be close together in order to protect themseives from the attacks of the Indians.

In fact, most of our towns began as forts.

Not until the Indians were finally subjugated were the people able to enlarge materially the community area.

Another reason for the settlement in villages was the fact of irrigation.

The canal systems were very limited, so that people tended to cluster about the source of irrigation water, the river.

Those who settled very far from the river found it difficult to secure culinary water.

A third influence might be that of the New England community itself.

Many of the "Mormon" leaders came from New England, and were doubtless acquainted with that type of community, so that the natural thing for them to do was to establish communities comparable to those with which they were familiar.

Then, too, the "Mormon" community was settled differently from those of other rural sections.

They came in a group; whereas, settlers in other rural areas came one by one, and settled apart on their farms.

The "Mormon" people had felt a strong community bond, because of their experiences in braving together the perils of the prairie in the great western exodus, and because the presence of a common antagonism had made it necessary for them to hang together in order to avoid "hanging separately." Finally, the people craved the services of social institutions, especially that of the Church.

They wanted to be fed spiritually.

UTAH RURAL LIFE 173 They had one motive only in coming to Utah; that of achieving freedom to worship God in the manner which they desired.

Their motivation was not primarily economic.

Consequently it would have gone "against the grain," if they had been separated from one another had been denied the privelege of frequently communing together in religious services.

Furthermore, the leaders desired that the Church be a vital institution in the lives of the people, and recognized that in order for it to maintain its greatest effectiveness, it should be able to reach all of the people regularly.

The village community afforded opportunity to accomplish this.

Certain of the influences described have now ceased to be of any consequence.

The Indians are no longer a menace to safety.

Irrigation canals have been lengthened and extended, so as to permit of farmers living on their individual farms.

Perhaps the influence of the river and the topography of the land still exert some influence; but the greatest present influence which is tending to preserve the village intact, as is the case in many of our rural communities, is the fact that it makes accessible to the group the modern social institutions.

For example, a thousand farm people scattered about on individual farms, would take some of them so far away from the central church or school, or store, that it would very much handicap them.

On the other hand, where they live in a compact village, all of them are within easy walking distance of the school, the church, the store, etc. Furthermore, the fact that they are in a village, makes it possible for them to unite on projects and secure modern conveniences for all at a cost which is relatively low, and which under conditions of open country settlement, would be prohibitive for the vast majority.

The town of Escalante, for instance, bonded itself for $12,- 000 and secured an electric lighting system, of which about half of the families of the town are able to get the benefit.

That is, there are nearly 100 families who have electric lights in their homes—more could have them if they wished—at a cost of about $120 per family.

Private electrical plants cost in the neighborhood of $800 to $1,000. Municipal water systems are possible for the small village of 500 people, but if they were scattered about over a large area, they could not secure a private water system except at a considerable cost over what the community system would be.

The same is true of sewage disposal.

In short, the village can, if it will, supply most of the needs which a larger city is able to provide.
