LESSON III (Third Week in June) Literature HENRY DAVID THOREAU At the Relief Society conference, held during the year 1923, the members of the organization were told that America had assumed the leadership of the world since the World War; and for that reason everything American would attract more attention than ever before; and, as a consequence, American literature, treated somewhat scornfully in the past by people across the Atlantic, would come in for its share of attention. It is because we have confirmation of this fact, and because the Spring and Summer months are coming, when writers who portray nature are especially interesting, that we have selected Henry David Thoreau for this lesson. A French paper of note is publishing a column each day on HENRY DAVID THOREAU American affairs and American literature, and the first writer they have selected is Henry David Thoreau; and, since the French people are thinking about him and reading him we think it only right that the members of our organization should become acquainted with him also. We once heard a man trom India say that the people in India knew more about John Milton than the Americans knew, we should not like the Frenchman to say that French people know more about Henry David Thoreau than the American knows. An American critic, Mr. Roy Bennett Page, tells us that Thoreau has been growing in popularity of late years, so much so that in 1906 his complete journal of over fourteen volumes was published, just as he left it. Thoreau was born in Concord, July 12, 1817. A number of our writers made Concord their home but few were born there. He was of French and Scottish ancestry. This may account, in a 
 measure, for the French turning their attention to him first of all. His people were poor, his father being a pencil maker, nevertheless they contrived in some way to have him go through school, and with some little help from the University he was graduated from Harvard in 1837. He is the writer who above all others believed in keeping a journal. Among his college themes was one that recommended the keeping of a journal, the form in which all his writings appear from the year of his graduation to his death, his journal making in all thirty manuscript volumes. In college he appears to have distinguished himself in Greek and English composition. He taught school for a while, worked at his father's trade of pencil maker, until he was satisfied that he could make a better pencil than his father, then gave it up stating that he had lost interest in further effort in that di rection. He then began what Ralph Waldo Emerson called those, '"endless walks and miscellaneous studies." One of these journeys took him the entire length of Cape Cod; another, into Maine; still another, into Canada. The report of these trips although not published until after his death, form the foundation of his literary fame. At that time he was an important factor in Concord life. He lectured before the Athenaeum, and was a skillful surveyor. Gardner and carpenter. However, in 1845, he borrowed an ax from Alcott, and a piece of land on Walden Pond, from Emerson, and built himself a hut. He lived a very frugal life. The record of this life is found in his book Walden. He tells us he went into the woods to see if he could not learn what the essentials of life really are. Somehow in his contact with nature he concluded that the institution of slavery was morally wrong. Going into the village one afternoon he was arrested and jailed "because he did not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the state which buys and sells men, women and children like cattle at the door of its senate house." These are practically his own words. It is said that Emerson went to visit him while he was in prison and asked, "Henry, what are you doing here?" He was met with the yankee reply, "Ralph Waldo, why are you not here?" Thoreau declared he would not pay taxes to a nation that supported such an abominable institution as slavery. But the value of Walden, thought by many to be his chief work, lies not in the fact that its author lived the simple life at Walden Pond or that he protested against the institution of slavery, but in the fact that he interpreted nature, by telling us how "spring came in," and of the changing color of Walden Pond. He has taught us the granduer of the great outdoor life about us and is the first of that school of writers of which John Burroughs is a notable example. He died on May 6, 1862. He had lived near to nature and had learned enough to be unafraid of death. Undoubtedly the unprotected life he lived brought on the consumption that resulted in his death. All who knew him were strongly attracted to him, as a beautiful character, and nothing in his life better justified their devotion than some sentiments expressed in his last weeks, when he knew death was at hand." "When I was a very little boy," he said to one, "I learned that I must die, and I set that down, so, of course, I am not disappointed now." 'To Bronson Alcott he said: "I shall leave the world without a regret, though to few men has 'the mere living' been more delightful." No doubt Thoreau withdrew himself from society because he thought society was diseased. In his Natural History of Massachusetts he writes, "There is no scent in it so wholesome as that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating and restorative as the life everlasting in high pastures." Again in an essay on "Walking" he said, "Hope in the future for me, is not in towns and cities but in the impervious and quaking swamps." The titles of his works published after his death compiled from his journals are: Excursions, 1863; Maine Woods, 1864; Cape Cod, 1865; A Vankee in Canada, 1866; Spring, 1881; Summer, 1884; Winter, 1887; Autumn, 1892; Notes on New England and Birds, 1910. His style was incoherent, he jumped from one to another without the least warning; yet all this admitted, it does not in the least change the fact that he set forth what he observed in the habits and actions of the "woodpecker, chicadee, song sparrow, bluebird, goldfish, wild duck and squirrel, Ayla, and muskrat, and with rare affection studied all God's creatures." Emerson says, "he sat immovable until 'the bird, the reptile, the fish which had retired from him should come back and resume its habits." He seemed by nature fitted for his work, for again Emerson remarks, "his power of observation seemed to indicate additional senses; he saw as with a microscope, heard as with a trumpet, and his memory was a photographic register of all he saw and heard." THE COMING OF THE BIRDS (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 18, 1858. How much more habitable a few birds make the fields! At the end of the winter, when the fields are bare, and there is 
 nothing to relieve the monotony of withered vegetation, our life seems reduced to its lowest terms. But let the bluebird come and warble over them, and what a change! The note of the first bluebird in the air answers to the purling rill of melting snow beneath. It is evidently soft and soothing, and, as surely as the thermometer, indicates a higher temperature. It is the accent of the south wind, in vernacular. It is modulated by the south wind. The song-sparrow is more sprightly, mingling its notes with the rustling of the brush along the water sides, but it is at the same time more terrene than the bluebird. The first woodpecker comes screaming into the empty house, and throws open doors and windows wide, calling out each of them to let the neighbors know of its return. But heard farther off it is very suggestive of ineffable associations, which cannot be distinctly recalled, of long-drawn summer hours, and thus it also has the effect of music. I was not aware that the capacity to hear the woodpecker had slumbered within me so long. When the blackbird, gets to a conqueree he seems to be dreaming of the sprays that are to be and on which he will perch. The robin does not come singing, but utters a somewhat anxious or inquisitive peep at first. The song-sparrow is immediately most at home of those I have named. Each new year is a surprise to us. We find that we had virtually forgotten the note of each bird, and when we hear it again, it is remem-~ bered like a dream, reminding us of a previous state of existence. How happens it that the association it awakens are always pleasing, never saddening, reminiscence of our sanest hours. The voice of nature is always encouraging. When I get two-thirds up the hill, I look round, and am for the hundredth time surprised by the landscape of the river valley and the hor! Zon with its distant blue-scalloped rim. It is a spring landscape, and as impossible a fortnight ago as the songs of birds. It is deeper and warmer blue than in winter, methinks. The snow is off the mountains, which seem even to have come again like the birds. The undulating river is a bright blue channel between sharp-edged shores of ice retained by the willows. The wind blows strong but warm from west by north (so that I have to hold my paper tight while I write this), making the copses creak and roar, but the sharp tinkle of a song-sparrow is heard through it all. But, ah! The needles of the pine, how they shine, as I look down over the Holden road and westward! Every third tree is lit with the most subdued, but clear, ethereal light, as if it were the most delicate frost-work in a winter morning, reflecting no heat, but only light. And as they rock and wave in the strong wind, even a mile off, the light courses up and, down them as over a field of grain, ie., they are alternately light and dark, like looms above the forest, when the shuttle is thrown between the light woof and the dark web. At sight of this my spirit is like a lit tree. It runs or flashes over their parallel boughs as when you play with the teeth of a comb. Not only osiers, but pine needles, shine brighter I think, in the spring, and arrowheads and railroad rails, etc., ete. Anacreon noticed this spring shining. Is it not from the higher sun and cleansed air and greater animation of nature? There is a warmer red on the leaves of the shrub oak and on the tail of the hawk circling over them. MAIMED NATURE (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 23, 1856. I spent a considerable portion of my time observing the habits of the wild animais, my prute neighbors. By their various movements and migrations they fetch the year about to me. Very significant are the flight of geese and the migration of suckers, etc. But when I consider that the nobler animals have been exterminated, here, the cougar, panther, lynx, wolverine, wolf, bear, moose, deer, beaver, turkey, etc., etc., I cannot but feel as if I lived in a tamed land as it were, emasculated country. Would not the motions of those larger and wilder animals have been more significant still? Is it not a maimed and imperfect nature that I am conversant with? As if I were to study a tribe of Indians that had lost all its warriors. Do not the forest and the meadow now lack expression? Now that I never see nor think of the moose with a lesser forest on his head in the one, nor of the beaver in the other? When I think what were the various sounds and, notes, the migration and works, and changes of fur and plumage, which ushered in the spring and marked the other seasons of the year, I am reminded that this my life in nature, this particular round of natural phenomena which I call a year, is lamentably incomplete. I listen to a concert in which so many parts are wanting. The whole civilized country is, to some extent, turned into a city, and I am that citizen whom I pity. Many of those animal migrations and other phenomena by which the Indians marked the season are no longer to be observed. I seek acquaintance with nature to know her moods and manners. Primitive nature is the most interesting to me. I take infinite pains to know all the phenomena of the spring, for instance, thinking that I have here the entire poem, and then, to my chagrin, I learn that it is but an imperfect copy that I possess and have read, that my ancestors have torn out many of the first leaves and grandest passages, and mutilatea it in many places. I should not like to think that some demigod had come before me and picked out some of the best of the stars. I wish to know an entire heaven and an entire earth. All the great trees and beasts, fishes and fowl are gone; the streams perchance are somewhat shrunk. Questions and Problems 1. Why is Thoreau called the "Concord Dearest?" 2. Many writers have declared that by living near to nature they have had spiritual and moral lessons suggested to them. What do you think of the idea? Have you personally had any spiritual uplift through contact with nature? 3. Do you think Thoreau was justified in not paying his taxes, and in going to prison rather than paying them? 4. State what you may have observed during the Spring months in the great outdoor world that has appealed to you. 5. What do you favor most, or what makes the greatest appeal to you, in the selections you have read from Thoreau?