[Vol15 | December 1928 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Sound Investment Bernice Selley]
A Sound Investment By Miss Bernice Selley, Utah Tuberculosis Association Little children, playing in dirty, crowded city streets, in the sweltering oppression of midsummer, touched the heart strings of good people who knew that not far away were grassy meadows, cool groves and sparkling brooks.

Might not the cramped lives of these city urchins, wan and ragged, many of them, be expanded a bit by transplanting them, even for a brief period, to the open country?

So the fresh air camp was born.

The idea grew rapidly.

Summer camps of all descriptions sprang up.

Health associations, appreciating the value of summer outings, were quick to join in the movement and many established camps of their own.

These are called health camps and their primary purpose is to husband and increase the health capital of children below par in vigor and vitality.

There are in all communities certain children who are neither definitely sick nor vigorously well.

They do not need hospital treatment, but neither are they competent to keep pace with other more sturdy children.

Experience has shown that such handicapped children can be helped by conserving their limited energies and by teaching them how to order their lives in accordance with their handicaps.

Open air schools, preventoria and summer health camps all aim to help this type of child.

Efficient health camps must meet certain standards.

The children must have careful medical guidance, rest, good food, hygienic practice, including the development of sound health habits and plenty fresh air and sunshine.

If there are any defects that need correction, such as adenoids and tonsils, these must be corrected.

The children themselves receive training in the ways of health and their parents also are given instruction.

The Utah Christmas Seal Health Camp established last summer by the Utah Tuberculosis Association in Big Cottonwood canyon provided efficient care to thirty children for a period of six weeks.

The average gain per child was six pounds.

It is hoped the funds next year will permit the association to increase the number of children at the health camp to fifty or sixty.

The Health Camp was supported by Christmas seal funds.

It was an investment with dividends measured not in dollars but in strong men and charming women.

Children who might otherwise be sacrificed were made happy and healthy.

Christmas seal funds used on health camps represent a sound investment, and everyone can invest their bit when Christmas seals are bought and sold.
