LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE CHILD STUDY COURSE Lesson XI. The Treatment and Prevention of Delinquency. (Based on Chapter XII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) In the last four lessons we have been considering the physical and mental health of the child. We are now going to look at certain aspects of character development, and for this purpose shall consider the principles underlying the modern treatment of juvenile delinquency. This chapter was written by Dr. William Healy, at the present time director of the Judge Baker Foundation in Boston, a child guidance clinic connected with the Boston Juvenile Court. It should be said here that Dr. Healy is a pioneer in the scientific study of delinquency and crime. It was his scientific study of one thousand repeated offenders* in the Chicago Juvenile Court some fifteen years ago which began the movement for a scientific study of delinquency and the child guidance clinic as forms of prevention. A, Some Recent Studies. One of the most recent bits of scientific work in the field of delinquencystimulated by Dr. Healyis that of Dr. Cyril Burt, psychologist to the London County Council, and reported in his book The Young Delinquent (Appleton, 1925). Dr. Burt's method of studying delinquents was fundamentally the same as Dr. Healy's in that he studied actual cases in order to discover his facts and draw his conclusions. His method differed from Dr. Healy's, however, in that he measured his delinquent group by a group of non-delinquent boys and girls of the same age and circumstances. By a rather elaborate statistical method, he discovered the following, in the order of their statement, as the causes of delinquency in his two hundred cases: "(1) defective discipline; (2) specific instincts; (3) general emotional instability; (4) morbid emotional conditions, mild rather than grave, generating or generated by so-called complexes; (5) a family history of vice or crime; (6) intellectual disabilities, such as backwardness or dullness; (7) detrimental interests, such as a passion for adventure, for the cinema, or for some particular person, together with a lack of any uplifting pursuits; (8) developmental con- *See his book The Individual Delinquent, Little, Brown Company, 1919. 
 ditions, such as adolescence or precocity in growth; (9) a family history of intellectual weakness; (10) defective family relationshipsthe absence of a father, the presence of a stepmother; (11) influences operating outside the homeas bad street companions and lack or excess of facilities for amusement; (12) a family history of temperamental disorderof insanity or the like; (13) a family history of physical weakness; (14) poverty and its concomitants; and, last of all, (15) physical infirmity or weakness in the child himself." Among his other conclusions may be noted the following: "On an average, each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." "Every cause and every influence, however, no matter what its special form may be, is found to operate and can only operate through its inner psychological effects. Conduct and misconduct are always, in the last analysis, the outcome of mental life." B. Classification of Causes All scientific studies of delinquency confirm each other in the conclusion that delinquency may be caused in a variety of ways. The terms "delinquency" and "crime" are generic ones and are comparable to the terms "sickness' and "disease" in the field of medicine. That is to say, the terms are very general and apply to a large group of widely different things. The significance of this fact, however, is that if progress in the treatment and prevention of delinquency is to be achieved, it must be realized in much the same way it was achieved in the treatment and prevention of disease, viz., by the isolation of specific forms, types, patterns, etc. That is to say, delinquency cannot be dealt with effectively as a whole, any more than diseases can be effectually treated or prevented en bloc. Just as there is no one universal panacea or palliative for all disease, neither is there one universal treatment or cure-all for delinquency. This list of known causes of delinquency is so long and varied that we have attempted the following simple classification: Classification of Causes of Delinquency I. Factors Which Enfeeble Social Control. A. Chronic. 1. Inherent defects in the political order, e. G., in law, in government, in politics, 2. Inherent defects in the economic order, e. G., low wages, unemployment, etc. 3. Inherent defects in the social order, e. G., in the family system, in education, in the standard of living, etc. 4, Urbanization, e. G., migration, mobility, anonymity, etc. 5. Physical environment, e. G., geographic or climatologic handicaps. 6. Changing modes and group conflict, e. G., with regard to sex; use of alcohol, tobacco, etc. B. Acute. 7. Family disorganization, e. G., death of parent, nonsupport, incompatibility, etc. 8. Neighborhood disorganization, e. G., poor housing, unwholesome assoctations, etc. 9. Governmental disorganization, e. G., graft, maladministration of law and justice, etc. 10. Inadequate educational activities, e. G., amount and quality of secular, religious and vocational instruction. 11. Inadequate avocational facilities, e. G., unwholesome leisure interests and lack of facilities. II. Factors Which Enfeeble Self-Control. A. Chronic. 12. Inherited or acquired physical handicap, e. G., stature, deformity, constitutional weakness, etc. 13. Inherited or acquired mental handicap, e. G., feeblemindedness, psychopathic personality, epilepsy, etc. B. Acute. 14. Physical injury or disease, e. G., accident, tuberculosis, syphilis, etc. 15. Mental disease, e. G., psychoses, psych-neuroses, mental conflicts, etc. 16. Age and physiological epoch, e. G., adolescence, etc. 17. Personal disorganization from excesses, e. G., sex; use of alcohol, narcotics, etc. 18. Ignorance, e. G., lack of sophistication, faulty perspective, etc. 'We concur in the position taken by Dr. Cyril Burt that these causes of delinquency are far from peculiar to delinquent persons and situations. ''With children of the same social class," says he, "identical conditions may co-exist without plunging them into a criminal career. It must, therefore, as a rule be either the number of factors, or the particular combination of them that renders delinquency a probable result." C. The Work of a Child Guidance Clinic We made some reference, it will be recalled, in a previous lesson, to the mental hygiene movement and to the activities of the modern child guidance clinics. These clinics combine the services of the physician, the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the psychiatric social worker. Their primary function is to diagnose and treat cases of conduct disorder in children. They are usually 
 maintained in connection with public schools, juvenile courts, _hospitals, universities, etc. They are strictly scientific in their procedure and are sometimes organized to promote research and the training of workers. Cases coming before these clinics are usually referred by judges, social workers, teachers, parents, etc. Each case is exhaustively studied from the following standpoints: Family background, Home conditions, Physical history, Present physical condition, Intelligence, Special abilities or disabilities, Temperament and character, Scheol attainment, Occupation, Recreation and leisure activities, Life history, Delinquency, The child's own history, ete. It has been found that it is far more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in this scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment. Next in importance to the advent of the juvenile court itself in the treatment of juvenile delinquency is the development of the modern child guidance clinic, with its scientific analysis and treatment of the causes of misconduct. Questions 1. What are the essential conclusions of Dr. Healy in regard to the causes and cures of delinquency? 2. Why is it important to accurately discover the causes of delinquency? 3. What is a juvenile court? How does it differ from any other court? 4, How much juvenile delinquency is there in your community? Is it increasing or decreasing? 'Can you get any reliable statistics on the subject? Why not? 5. Is there a juvenile court serving your community? Is it strictly modern and forward-looking? Does the judge employ scientific methods in determining the causes and treatment of delinquency in the children who come before him? Why is not your community more up-to-date in this respect? 6. Outline a program for the prevention and treatment of delinquency in your community.