[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 933 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Messages— Message 8— Respect for Those Who | Are Different]
[Visiting Teacher Messages— Message 8— Respect for Those Who Are Different]

Do we avoid saying things about others which we wouldn't say in their presence? 3. When we make a promise, are we careful about living up to it? 4. Do we avoid arguments if possible? 5. Do we attempt to dominate people? 6. Do we make fun of people? 7. Do we act and feel as if we are superior? 93/

7 December 1970

 Cultivation of the habits of behavior that will enrich our own lives and increase the happiness of others is a worthwhile goal. How wonderful it is to know it is possible to overcome negative traits and develop positive ones. PERSONALITY TRAITS IMPORTANT IN A MOTHER Today in the midst of a troubled world, it is vital for mothers to have strength of character and stability. Both are important personality traits. Mothers are facing the challenge of maintaining decent family life in a world which seems to promote irreSOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World: we on ns en ee oe eee ee ee sponsible living. To meet this situation she needs poise, balance, level-headedness, good sense, and moral stability. A mother's example before her children should be one of abiding faith in God and unwavering belief in Church standards. CONCLUSION Personality is the sum total of all those qualities which make each of us unique and different from all other individuals. Therefore, it is more important to develop a pleasing personality than to acquire material assets in becoming "a lovelier you." ee ee ee oe en Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline Northern Hemisphere: Third week, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third week, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To understand that ''no"' can mean that parents care. INTRODUCTION There are rewards to being a parent and there are hazards. A task for every parent is to reduce the hazards and increase the rewards. Understanding children and their needs at particular periods in their development— sometimes compared to a series of "childhoods'"—can help us to avoid child-rearing mistakes, to relate better to the needs of our children and, thus, to enjoy them more fully. In the lesson today we will address ourselves specifi- 938 cally to the psychological need of every child for control or discipline, which can be defined as training according to rules, instruction in the proper conduct er action, bringing to a state of order. CHILDREN NEED CONTROLS Parents should not fear to set limits, or to restrict their children, or to punish them reasonably when motivated by love. According to King Benjamin, we or ¢ are not to "suffer" (permit or allow) our children to "'transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another." (Mosiah 4:14.) The Father of all chastens whom he "loveth." A Pulitzer prize winner, Phillis McGinley, has written sensitively about the needs of children. She confessed that the longer she lived in a house with children, the less importance she placed on "cooperatively threshing out matters of conduct" and _ giving reasons for all her yeses and noes. She has suggested in her book Sixpence in Her Shoe, that she would provide rules for children to follow and would make the rules just and _ strict.