[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 938 | General Feature | Social Relations— Lesson 7— Self-Control and Discipline | ]
[Social Relations— Lesson 7— Self-Control and Discipline]

-- - The best lesson a child can learn is self-control, and to feel his relationship to others to the extent that he must have respect for their feelings. Self-denial is so important and self-control such a valuable quality in human nature, that one man has said truly that the worst eduelse and not that. (David O. McKay, Man May Know for Himself {Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], p. 337.) The conscience of a child, so much a part of self-control, ls largely form ed before adolescence, and yet, adolescents seek advice from peers and welcome a Festraining hand from caring adults who recognize and accept their need for identity and independence. Parents will incur suspicion if they are patronizing, for as illustrated in the following -humorous item from Changing Times, adolescents like to think they know for themselves. Mother wrote: Seventeen was 4 bad year for me.-- the year my son was 17, that is. Things were frequently stormy. - - - Once during a particularly emotional argument about his attitudes, he mumbled "You do some things that I don't like, too." That seemed highly reasonable to me as J Mentally reviewed some f my kno SUMMARY allings (like Prying into his Personal] life Y asking him ow he was, or akin In this I Sson Im fee] Builty by ¢ king out the 8arbage OW the j Portan t in his Presence), Outh s If-contro Self-discj With Omplete sincerity I asked im ae the yese; O ror ne to tell me What h had in Mind. Aft ra 5 Pause to g ther Control, he Said, "Wel} a wd actions, ot of times YOu act as t ough you know ° show tha More than I 0." ("Guilty th eneration, " Fro Chang l lplinger Magazine, Vol nN } that these tea -~ 24, No. 2 [February 1979], Pp. 42 a. Legacy. D Y, the gs Parat ission.) Reprinted b "childho ds" are on] efly menen. "oned, byt an effo Adolescents d e need t Mportance of right and eve inde Wrong to set limits for chi] Pendence j; Nticipatio of the dren—y, t to deprive 9 Provoke Imminent}. SPonsibility of fur. But for ¢ 'T Protection and bether educa ton, a mission €mCause w love ©m. The infant Ployment and Marri 8e, they ina State of biological} an somehow have + deny the im. Tion Ide ne Portance of Il prot tio Later is ldespread he learns the Meaning of "No" as a € process begins f PSycholog;. Urgence of Spirit and Cally nternalizin: desire y Ich, jf a Ss. Al standards "Ccountability is er-day Saint Parents tested in 

941 December 1970

 Class Discussion What is the relationship of permissiveness (where it is excessive) with the very young child to the willful uncontrolled acts of those same children in adolescence? FOR HOME-DOING Accept as a challenge for yourself some act of self-denial or self-discipline in an effort toward self-improvement. SOCIAL RELATIONS: Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: ''Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25), and this lesson is designed to heip the Latter-day Saint woman achieve more joy through a healthy balance of the religious, mental, social, and physical dimensions of her life. Father Lehi explained certain dimensions of the gospel to his son Jacob, as recorded in the second chapter of 2 Nephi. A statement by Lehi summarizes the purpose of life and Adam's responsibility in the eternal scheme: "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 2:25. See also 2 Ne. 9:10; 2 Ne. 27:30; D&C 6:31; 18:15; 42:61.) In the Old and New Testament (Neh. 8:10; Job 38:7; John 16:22) the term "Joy" is used to identify a desirable state of being and a suitable goal for man. It is also used to indicate. One of man's ultimate achievements. Joy is associated with exaltation in the kingdom of the Father, and the term appears to be synonymous with the achievement of inner and outer harmony with God and his purposes. The lessons for this year recognize the need for the Latter- 942 day Saint woman to understand the current life problems of herself and her family that she may discover how to achieve the balance that makes it possible to be "in the world but not of the world." While extended communications media are available to hasten the Lord's work, they are also available to the forces of Satan. Satan has, in effect, been invited to live among us. He can come to us via radio, television, motion pictures, theater, publications, and the public platform. Satan's bid for our time, our energies, our thoughts, and our very souls is relentless and skillful. We must qualify ourselves to acknowledge the Lord and his program and avoid Satan's enticings. The person who has balanced his life patterns has learned to use good judgment, and by virtue of having good judgment, is not apt to submit to Satan's tempta- tions. Four dimensions of our life that are important to keep in balance and that need frequent checking to assure a sufficient but not exclusive focus of our time and energies are religious activities, mental activities, social activities, and physical activities. Satan glories in using partial truths to enhance his work, and some of his tactics are best detected and avoided if we keep these four dimensions in balance. Let us examine each of them and try to understand what the healthy balance is and how we can detect any pattern that lacks balance. RELIGIOUS ACTIVITY When we speak of religious activities needing to be kept in balance in our lives, we must be sure to make the distinction between these activities and spirituality. Spirituality refers to man's relationship with God. Understanding this, we must realize that true spirituality should run through the fabric of all of our activities. As the Lord put it, we should be "doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." (D&C 82:19. Italics added.) The vitality of this spiritual force will guide us in meeting the problems of the right emphasis and balance to apply to all the dimensions of our lives. Religious activities include such things as a study of the scriptures, service in the Church, and attendance at the numerous meetings available to us during the week.