[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 935 | General Feature | Homemaking— Discussion 7— "Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee" | ]
[Homemaking— Discussion 7— "Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee"]

She would avoid arguments. "Children, in their hearts, like laws," Mrs. McGinley states, and since authority indicates order in the world, children and most people wish to support law and receive the freedom which is a result of obedience to law. When parents are too permissive, children become confused and lack stability and direction. Children live rapidly in the few years of their greatest possibilities for learning, and it is difficult for them to participate in "analyzing the logic behind every command or taboo." AGE-RELATED NOES The need for controls does not remain the same in infancy, childhood, and adolescence, but is ever changing. All the controls needed by the newborn, and these are many, are external and are provided almost entirely by the mother. The mother and the infant are so close as to be almost one, and it has been suggested that the infant does not, at first, distinguish between itself and the mother. To ensure consistency and dependability of care for the infant, we need only to make Lesson Department sure that the mother's needs are served, that she has the necessities of life, is free of crippling illnesses, is valued for her own sake, and brings to the mothering role past experiences of herself being mothered. Later, in the next "childhood," during ages approximately one to three, the external controls become more internalized. This is when caring parents will say "no, no" to the child; and, increasingly, the child will say "no, no" to himself, thus relying more on internal controls than external ones. Fathers, by their example and conduct in the home as priesthood bearers, can instill a love and respect for authority and orderliness that will set the pattern of respect that the child will later have for law and order and for the values and authority of society. Class Discussion When we know the importance of selfcontrol, why is it so difficult to say no to our children? Each period of childhood provides teaching and learning opportunities for inculcating a sense of what is right and wrong as pertains to conduct and action. The preschool child, especially, needs good models. It is at this time that the "dos and do nots" are internalized and a conscience more fully developed. Boys identify with their fathers and almost worshipfully think that these fathers can do anything. They try to be like them in every way possible, incorporating their values and actions. Girls similarly pattern after their mothers. Also, — the neighborhood begins to be important in molding personality. 

958 December 1970