[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 951 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement— Lesson 7— Ideal | Family Relationships]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To strengthen family relationships through becoming better acquainted with selections in the cultural arts that portray love, understanding, and other family ideals. 

951 December 1970

 ART "La Bonne Mére'' by Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806), French, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Reproduction page 688, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970. COMMENTARY Because of the problems, sorrows, and pain in life, we look forward with hope to the millennium, a time of peace and joy. We work toward ideals of perfection perhaps not completely attainable in this life but ultimately our goal. Consequently we should govern our relationships with family and each other in such a way that we come as near to this goal as possible here and now. There are times, however, when the trials seem insurmountable and we are tempted to look 'for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to overindulgence. When this happens, progress toward our ideal is thwarted. During the time of the French Revolution there were realists who attempted to isolate and solve the problems. There were also those who sought escape in flights of fancy and overindulgence to avoid the terrible reality of the time. The aristocracy in their court life developed a blindness to reality, as was evidenced by the dalliance, gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the social realist described in an earlier lesson, ''Advice to a Young Artist,"' portrayed the social upheaval and the problems of the comman man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard painted the veneer, the facade, of the upper classes. At thirty-seven Fragonard married and the influence of this event upon his life is reflected in the changed nature of his subjects. Rather than the frivolity of the courts, he turned more toward the interests of his home and family. ''La Bonne Mére"' (''The Good Mother'') is an example of this change. Study it carefully—a great subject painted by a master with the brush. Although the decorative quality, the idyllic setting, the sweetness, the prettiness seem to supersede the grand theme of the title, it is a great painting because it makes an aesthetically satisfying, well-executed, and truthful statement about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical principles which, if practiced, move us toward our goal of perfection. INTRODUCTION:; focus upon selections that illusThe family group is the heart of the gospel. Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, selections are printed which focus upon ideal family relationships showing love, understanding, trust, and other family ideals. This lesson will review these selections (differing from lesson number one that focused upon selections to be read in family groups for family entertainment and study) and will 952 trate the family as an _ ideal, loving group. Again the role of the woman as wife and mother will be emphasized. In reviewing the material for this lesson, it seems desirable to identify several different types of selections ranging from those that dramatize problems within the family group to those that openly portray ideal family relationships. Class leaders should emphasize the positive examples but may want also to draw attention to the negative ones, because we often learn as much through analyzing problems as through stressing ideal relationships. PROBLEMS IN MARRIAGE AND FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Selections in the volumes that particularly explore problems in marriage and family relationships include the following: "Birthday Party" by Katharing Brush (vol. 1, pp. 176-78) "Marriage 4 la Mode" by Katherine Mansfield (vol. 2, pp. 62-73) "Too Early Spring" by Stephen Vincent Benét (vol. 2, pp. 319-33) "Home Bunial" by Robert Frost (vol. 2, pp. 334-39) "Dora" by Alfred Lord Tennyson (vol. 3, pp. 161-66) "Clay" by James Joyce (vol. 3, pp. 167- 78) Four of the selections in this list are concerned with misunderstandings or problems in communication within the family— between husband and wife in "Birthday Party" and "Home Burial" and between parents and children in "Too Early Spring" and "Dora." The other two selections, the brilliant "Marriage a la Mode" and the equally brilliant "Clay," depict distorted values and callousness in human relations that destroy family unity, love, and understanding. All six selections give valuable insights into problems that can weaken the family. Another group of selections touches on family problems and illustrates family ideals. These include "Michael" by William Wordsworth (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) which shows the depth ofa father's love in spite of the grief of a son's Lesson Department withdrawal; "Sixteen" by Jessamyn West (vol. 2, pp. 24-32) which shows how a young girl's selfishness starts to change to unselfishness through the death of her grandfather; '""The Leader of the People" by John Steinbeck (vol. 2, pp. 166-82) which dramatizes certain problems in family understanding and communication but also shows the love that can bind a family together in spite of these problems; and the parable of the Prodigal Son (vol. 3, pp. 200-3), which shows a father's love and understanding reaching out to embrace two very different sons. Again, all four of these selections give valuable insights into family relationships. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the value of knowing the negative side of a family situation? A third group of selections is primarily love stories and poems. These include: "The Woman" by Zona Gale (vol. 2, pp. 238-41) "A Garland of Love Lyrics" (vol. 3, pp. 219-38) "Stella's Birthday" by Jonathan Swift (vol. 4, pp. 160-61) "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims (vol. 4, pp. 162-63) Mark Twain's Family Letters (vol. 5, pp. 93-100) These selections portray the power of love in marriage, not only as a source of happiness in the early years but also as an anchor of strength in the later years. IDEAL FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS The fourth group, which relates most completely to this lesson, portrays families inter- 

953 December 1970

 reacting in rich, meaningful ways. The families are not without problems, but love, trust, and understanding are rich enough to triumph over the problems and, equally important, help solve them. The selections in_ this group are: **A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens (vol. 1, pp. 246-74) "The Sick Child" by Colette (vol. 1, pp. 420-39) "My Little Boy" by Carl Ewald (vol. 2, pp. 8-23) "Mother" by Kathleen Norris (vol. 2, pp. 133-51) "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" by Thornton Wilder (vol. 3, pp. 20-34) "The Cotter's Saturday Night" by Robert Burns (vol. 3, pp. 189-99) "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin (vol. 5, pp. 77-78) "Another Apmnil" by Jesse Stuart (vol. 5, pp. 79-86) "Neighbor Rosicky" by Willa Cather (vol. 5, pp. 101-28) "Mother of Comptons" by Milton S. Mayer (vol. 5, pp. 198-203) "A Christmas Carol" is a wonderful old classic showing a family bound together by love and joy in spite of poverty—with the Christmas spirit finally _ permeating even the heart of old Scrooge. "The Sick Child" is a delicate, lovely story describing a little boy hovering near death through weeks of burning fever and a mother who, with protective love, waits anxiously for the moment of crisis to come and pass. "My Little Boy," translated from the Danish, is a delightsome dramatization showing how a wise father tenderly guides his son in growing up, an experience which helps them all—father, mother, and little son—to develop. "Mother" is the description of another wise parent who hum- 954 bly, yet gladly and realistically, accepts and triumphs in her responsibilities of motherhood. "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"' describes still another mother (this time _ portrayed in a drama), showing how she rises to the challenge of being the wise mother for her rambunctious family. "The Cotter's Saturday Night," a poem, describes a humble working family in their evening activities—a sort of old-fashioned family home evening, with the entire family bound together by love and religion in an atmosphere of informality but also firm parental control. "The Secret Heart" is a delicate modern poem portraying a father's love for his sleeping son, giving the son a sense of security that will sustain him all the rest of his life. "Another April' is a modern short story showing how a young mother fulfills her role both as a mother to her little boy and as a daughter to her aging father. "Neighbor Rosicky," one of the greatest of the stories in the five volumes, is a beautiful portrayal of a husband and wife united in a love so deep that it extends beyond each other to embrace and influence not only children but also neighbors and everyone who comes within reach of the couple's influence. Finally "Mother of Comptons" is a portrait of an extraordinary mother who creates an ideal home atmosphere that propels her children on their separate roads to greatness. Any one of these selections would be excellent as the heart of this lesson, and readers are encouraged to reread as many of "MY LITTLE Boy" Tint here Just one epiPonders on Nancia] Status. When he at lot of boy's breast Lesson Department fourteen Others: "So that's 80ne," J Say, My accent betrays 4 certain Melan- "Father. --ISit long til] next Sunday?" "Very long, my boy; ever so many © 80 over the Way and look at the top in the Shop-window It is really a December 1970 keeping with our means. We make the shopkeeper take a solemn oath to keep the top for us till Sunday morning, even if boys should come and bid him much higher sums for it. On Sunday morning, we are on the spot before nine o'clock and acquire our treasure with trembling hands. And we play with it all day and sleep with it at night, until, on Wednesday morning, it disappears without a trace, after the nasty manner which tops have. When the turn comes of the next cent, something remarkable happens. There is a boy in the courtyard who has a skipping-rope and my little boy, therefore, wants to have a skippingrope too. But this is a difficult matter. Careful inquiries establish the fact that a skipping-rope of the sort used by the upper classes is nowhere to be obtained for less than five cents. The business is discussed as early as Saturday: "It's the simplest thing in the world," I say. "You must not spend your cent tomorrow. Next Sunday you must do the same and the next and the next. On the Sunday after that, you will have saved your five cents and can buy your skipping-rope at once." "When shall I get my skipping-rope then?" "In five Sundays from now." He says nothing, but I can see that he does not think my idea very brilliant. In the course of the day, he derives, from sources unknown to me, an acquaintance with financial circumstances which he serves up to me on Sunday moming in the following words: "Father, you must lend me five cents for the skipping-rope. I'll give you forty cents back." He stands close to me, very red in the face and quite confused. I perceive that he is ripe for falling into the claws of the usurers: "I don't do that sort of business, my boy," I say. "It wouldn't do you any good either. And you're not even in a position to do it, for you have only thirteen cents, as you know." He collapses like one whose last hope is gone. "Let us just see," I say. And we go to our drawer and stare at it long and deeply. '""'We might perhaps manage it this way, 956 that I give you five cents now. And then I should have your cent and the next four cents." He interrupts me with a loud shout. I take out my purse, give him five cents and take one cent out of the drawer. "That won't be pleasant next Sunday," I say, "and the next and the next and the next." But the thoughtless youth is gone. Of course, the installments of his debt are paid off with great ceremony. He is always on the spot himself when the drawer is opened and sees how the requisite cent is removed and finds its way into my pocket instead of his. The first time, all goes well. It is simply an amusing thing that I should have the cent; and the skipping-rope is still fresh in his memory, because of the pangs which he underwent before its purchase. Next Sunday, already the thing is not quite so pleasant and, when the fourth installment falls due, my little boy's face looks very gloomy: "Is anything the matter?" I ask. "TI should so much like a stick of chocolate," he says, without looking at me. "Is that all? You can get one in a fortnight. By that time, you will have paid for the skipping-rope and the cent will be your own again." "IT should so much like to have the stick of chocolate now." Of course, I am full of the sincerest compassion, but I can't help it. What's gone is gone. We saw it with our own eyes and we know exactly where it has gone to. And, that Sunday moming, we. Part in a dejected mood. Later in the day, however, I find him standing over the drawer with raised eyebrows and pursed-up mouth. I sit down quietly and wait. And I do not have to wait long before I learn that his development as an economist is taking quite its normal course. "Father, suppose we moved the cent now from here into this Sunday's place and I took it and bought the chocolatestick." "Why, then you won't have your cent for the other Sunday." "TI don't mind that, Father." We talk about it, and then we do it. And, with that, as a matter of course, we enter upon the most reckless speculations. The very next Sunday, he is clever enough to take the furthest cent, which lies just before the summer holidays. He pursues the path of vice without a scruple, until, at last, the blow falls and five long Sundays come in a row without the least chance of a cent. Where should they come from? They were there. We know that. They are gone. We have spent them ourselves. But during those drab days of poverty, we sit every morning over the empty drawer and talk long and profoundly about that painful Phenomenon, which is so simple and so easy to understand and which one must needs make the Lesson Department And we hope and trust that our experience will do us good, when after our trip, we start a new set of cents. (Excerpt from "My Little Boy," by Carl Ewald, Out of the Best Books, vol. 2, Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 13-16.) Questions for Discussion 1. Did the father handle the situation wisely? 2. Specifically, what dangers and lessons in economics for all of us are pointed up in this little sketch? Best of.