[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 924 | General Feature | Relief Society Booth at the Open House, Utah | State Fair]
[Relief Society Booth at the Open House, Utah State Fair]

My arms would be empty; no more fat little fingers pulling my nose, or kisses on the back of a little neck, and faltering first steps to admire; but goodbyes were said, and with no tears. I hurried to clean the rooms, put away the crib, think busy thoughts of dolater tasks I had saved. I was doing all right until I found a little sock.... 930 Lesson Department LESSON DEPARTMENT (continued from page 912) ENDURING TO THE END The reason for man's existence was revealed in the beginning: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) That purpose is to bring about the resurrection and eventual godhood, or a fulness of joy, of those who choose the way of life which brings this ultimate exaltation. Whereas all men receive their physical bodies in the resurrection, the powers of God are received only by those who accept Jesus Christ as their Savior and live the commandments in the plan of salvation. The understanding of the purpose of life begins with the doctrine of man's premortality, of his birth as a son of God with the potential of godhood. Provision was made for an earth life wherein man could be proved and tested to determine his worthiness for dwelling in God's presence forever. The body man receives by birth in this life insures that he will receive his physical, flesh and bone resurrected body. Without this body he would be unable to receive a fulness of joy, or eternal life, the second great purpose of existence. In order that God's earth children might understand the way of salvation, the gospel plan was given to Adam who was commanded to teach it to his posterity. That plan, prepared before the earth was created, provided for release from the two consequences of Adam's transgression, spiritual death and physical death. The Divine Being capable of satisfying the law of justice by application of the law of mercy was the Only Begotten of the Eternal Father in the flesh, Jesus Christ, who had power over death and the capability of remitting man's sins. Inasmuch as all men will receive their resurrected bodies unconditionally through the atonement of Christ, the first purpose of. Life is accomplished. But the second purpose—godhood— comes by the application of the principles of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and of repentance and then the acceptance of the atonement by water and spirit baptism followed by continued obedience to the Lord's commandments. These ordinances are directly related to the atonement and therefore are necessary for salvation in God's presence and for exaltation. Erring man is provided the power by which he may continue on his journey to exaltation through his continued exercise of faith and the principle of repentance. He knows that the Savior pleads his cause with the Father by reason of the atonement. (Moro. 6:4; D&C 38:4; 45:3-4.) He knows the tremendous cost of the atonement in terms of excruciating pain, bleeding at every pore. The penitent saint expresses his love for the Savior by keeping his commandments. (D&C 18:10-16;.19:15-19.)