at long road which began with "Well it's pretty good, but it's not like Mary makes." you see, in my case it was changed from "like mother used to make." Tom had lived with Mary and Joe there on the farm for years and Mary was the best cook in the world. She was also the most tactRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 ful one and more than half of the recipes in my cookbook today are hers. She was always helpful, too. 'Today she was helping me put oilcloth around the lower part of the kitchen wall. Ojlcloth was so easy to keep clean. So we set to work with a will. We measured and cut, plastered the glue on the wall with Joe's kalsomine brush, and fitted the oilcloth in place. We smoothed the oilcloth on with a cloth and rubbed it hard to make it stick. It was fun and it looked pretty. I had painted the woodwork white, in spite of the warning, "It will show every speck, it just isn't practical for a farm." I had made sheer white curtains for the windows, too, and stenciled bluebirds on them. At school they had said that I was artistic and I was pretty proud of myself. It wasn't every farmer who had a wife who could do that sort of thing. Mary said, "The blue in this oilcloth just matches that in your linoleum and the bluebirds in your curtains." I smiled happily, "Yes, in spite of Sister Rass. Did you hear her the other day when she was giving the house the once over and she said, 'Will them things wash?' " Sister Rass was a distant (thank goodness) neighbor who grew to represent everything I didn't like about farm life. It was she who had said my white paint wasn't practical. Well, goodness knows, she was. The bread was done before we had finished and we stopped work to eat hot bread and honey. 663 "ich hay like a mand that she had a sistet Kathy have some, O 1" He even hinte Tom told "May ghouldn't she have hot bread ye "Oh, give h some of the top who wasn't married yet. D, after all, she him he wouldn't have Marthy if he could stack the hay » Her tone knew she ++ would help me remember not to cause I' make so many at 4 time. You know, and I can drive + wouldn't have lasted too I often drove for my father on the thers could eat 4 dry farm. I eve loaf apiece when it was hot like © cut the grain! _ "Well, ye" know how they Sy a should have @ strong Dad stuck back and 4 weak head. _ He said that if you n the porch in @ J across the field for will get rich with thing was wtongworry about what don't see ho wouldn't make 4 goo I said, guess { shouldn't have sal know 'Tom wouldn't trade you the world. No, Tom wouldn't trade me for in the world; he had "Now don't you brother Loren is, an i + like the farm, he V Marthy, he wante Adoption of Children Mary L. Dillman Former Director, Relief Society Social Service and Child Welfare Department N the United States, throughout the world, and throughout history, the adoption of children by foster parents, by relatives, and by friends of the parents, and by strangers, has always had its place in the life of society. During recent years in this country there has been a tremendous increase in the number of adoptions carried on through the courts. Adoption has taken on a new importance in the welfare of children. The reasons for adopting a child are many and varied, and sometimes they are not clearly recognized by the prospective adoptive parents. Motives are often a mixture of emotions, conscious planning, self-interest, and altruism. The basic reason underlying many adoptions is that bringing a child into the home will make a richer and fuller life for both the parents and the child. 'There are persons who wish to have an heir to carry on their names or to carry on their special activities, or who wish to have someone to rely upon in later years; others feel the need of an interest in life or crave the satisfaction of expending their emotions on a child. Interest in a particular child or a child of a relative is another reason for adoption. Persons who wish to adopt a child should recognize their own motives and the possible effect of these motives upon the child. Consider, for example, those parents who desire a child to take the place of one they Page 664 parents. Have lost. Their expectation that the child will resemble their own in personality may lead to unfortunate comparisons between the two children. Parents who cannot have another child of their own may wish, through adoption, to provide companionship for an only child. Adoption should never take place unless the child is more than a means of meeting the needs of the adoptive A child is a person; he has needs of his own, and he has rights. In order to safeguard the welfare of the child, the rights of the natural parents, and the security of the adoptive parents, social agencies are set up and authorized by law to handle adoption. The legally authorized agency endeavors to set up every precaution to insure the welfare of the child. Adoptive parents are carefully selected and children are not placed in their homes until a complete investigation has been made, consisting of a visit to the adoptive parent's home, checking references, a doctor's statement, and a discussion of the motives and desires of adoption. Generally, agencies do not place infants in homes where the parents are over the average, natural, childbearing age, usually forty years of age. Experience has revealed that adoptions of infants in homes where the husband and wife are over forty are not as successful as where the ADOPTION OF CHILDREN couple is younger. Religious backgrounds are considered, and attempts are made to match, as nearly as possible, the physical characteristics and racial descent of the adoptive parents and the child. Agencies give consideration to the financial ability of a family to provide for the needs of a child. It is important that the standards of living in the home reflect an understanding of all the conditions that will affect the child's health—good diet, satisfactory sleeping conditions, proper medical care. The physical condition of the parents should be sound, and there should be no danger of the child contracting diseases from them. The greatest need of every child is for a home in which there is a normal mother and father relationship, and in which he may have the benefit of a real family life with its background of affection and understanding of childhood and its problems, behavior, joys, woes, and doubts. Every attempt is made by the agency to select mature, stable individuals capable of meeting the needs of a child. CHILDREN placed for adoption come from many sources. 'They may be children from broken homes, either by death or serious illness of one parent, divorce, desertion, indifference, or lack of willingness to accept responsibility. Some of the children placed by agencies are children of unmarried mothers. Such a mother may place her child for adoption because of her youth, her inability to provide financially for him, or fear that both she and her child will become social outcasts. Agencies assist the unmarried moth- 665 er to work out a satisfactory solution to her problem, either by helping her to keep her child and face the community