Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" NORTHERN IDAHO: That part of Idaho called Coeur d'Alene, and in which is my home, comprises the two northernmost counties, Shoshone and Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with beautiful lakes nestling among them and streams of water coursing through every gulch, except where tower the snow clad peaks above the timber line. A trail cut through the banks of snow Winds up and o'er the mountain chain To where the pines of Idaho Stand guard upon the Coeur d'Alene. —Helen L. Young RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN DAVIS STAKE: President Susan Grant presiding... Made opening remarks, said we did not come together to advance new ideas but we have come with a desire to be blessed.... "I have been connected with this Church for a long time and it is my testimony that God hears and answers the prayers of the faithful saints. When we are in deep sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear us. We have all enlisted in the service of God. Our names are all enrolled in the Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sisters to attend their meetings." —Phebe C. Sessions, Secretary ROSES FOR PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S NINETIETH BIRTHDAY They are the roses Reverence and Regard That know no change. But bloom forever, though the storms be hard And ways grow strange. They are the roses that I bring to you, Your gaze to greet; To scent the way you take with fragrance true, And make life sweet. —Miss Rose Wallace SILVER WEDDING: Elder John C. Sharp, Bishop of Vernon, Tooele Co., and his wife celebrated their silver wedding by entertaining about fifty relatives and friends at the Templeton Hotel in this city, on Friday evening March 12th. Among the guests were Apostle H. J. Grant and w ife, Mrs. Catherine K. Palmer, who is almost eighty years old and mother of Mrs. Sharp, Pres't H. Gowans and wife of Tooele Stake, Brother Samuel Woolley and wife of Grantsville, Brother Wnght and wife of Nephi, Brother Louis Stransbury and wife of Vernon, Brother Thackeray and wife of Croydon, and many relatives of this city. The evening was pleasantly spent with music, feasting and conversation. —E. P. F. Page 172 HERE are sixteen women in the Fighty-fifth Congress of the United States, the same number as in the eighty-fourth, though two of them are new: Representative Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey, and Representative Kathryn FE. Granahan, Democrat, Pennsylvania. Edith Nourse Rogers, Republican, Massachusetts, was elected to the House of Representatives for her seventeenth term, and _ Frances Payne Bolton, Republican, Ohio, for her tenth. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman Senator. 'The other representatives are: Republican: Katherine Ind and Marguerite Church, Illinois; Democratic: Edna Kelly, New York; Gracie Pfost, Idaho; Leonor K. Sullivan, Missouri; Edith Green, Oregon; Elizabeth Kee, West Virginia; Iris Blitch, Georgia; Martha W. Griffiths, Michigan; and Coya Knutson, Minnesota. ELLIE BELLES MACMILLAN, born in Spencer, Indiana, is the mother of Harold Macmillan, Britain's new Prime Minister. She met and married Maurice Macmillan, musician and publisher, in Paris in the 1880's. Largely through her insistence, Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind was purchased and published by the Macmillan Company.