	TOOELE STAKE

	The Fifth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Tooele Stake of Zion
was held in the meeting house on the 13th
and 14th of March, 1880. First day the
President, Mrs. M. A. Hunter, was detained
at home, and her first Counselor, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Clegg, presided over the meeting.
Visitors from Salt Lake City, Sisters Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. Young and Elmina S.
Taylor; Elder Thomas Atkins, Counselor to
President Lyman, was present, and Mrs.
Jeanette De La Mare, President of Tooele
Relief Society. The weather was very un-
favorable, consequently the attendance was
not so large as usual. After singing and
prayer, the Secretary read the minutes of
the former Conference and reports from the
several branch societies. Mrs. De La Mare
gave a verbal report of Tooele R. S., repre-
senting it in a good condition spiritually
and temporally. Mrs. E. Clegg made some
opening remarks; and expressed her plea-
sure in having the sisters from Salt Lake
City. Mrs. E. S. Taylor addressed the
meeting, said many good things; dwelling
much upon the duties of mothers in train-
ing up their children and teaching them
the principles of honesty, integrity, virtue
and truth, having always a tender care over
them. Mrs. Zina D. Young spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers, and the
neaessity of planting in the children, from
the earliest moment of their existence, the
seeds of intelligence. Referred to the Pri-
mary Associations as a school for spiritual
instruction, and made many pleasing and
excellent remarks. Sister E. R. Snow spoke
upon unity, confidence, the storing of grain
and sericulture; alluded to the recent or-
ganization of the Silk Association, and
urged the people to take an active interest
in this branch of home manufacture, and 
gave much general instruction. calculated
to awaken renewed interest in the Gospel.
Coun. T. Atkins bore testimony to the good
works of the sisters and the necessity of
union, faithfulness and diligence.
	The afternoon was devoted to the Primary
Association, and very suggestive and appro-
priate remarks were made by the sisters
from the city, and the children were highly
interested, and will ever remember it with
pleasure.
	Sunday morning Pres. M. A. Hunter ar-
rived from Grantsville. The Sunday School
convened, roll was called, minutes read,
when the usual lessons were dispensed with,
that the children might be addressed by
the sisters, E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young and
E. S. Taylor, who gave much good advice
and counsel to the children and young peo-
ple.
	Sunday afternoon: The Young  Ladies

[Column 2]
held their Conference, Mrs. Ann Tate, Su-
perintendent, presiding. Singing, prayer,
singing. Minutes and reports were first in
order, and the meeting was then addressed
by the sisters, who gave much good counsel
to the young ladies in regard to choosing a
companion for life; also in reference to
keeping good company, attending meetings,
and fulfilling every duty faithfully. To be
obedient to the counsel of those who pre-
sided over them, and listen to their teach-
ings and the whisperings of the Holy Spirit.
	Coun. James Ure made a few remarks.
Was much pleased to attend the Ladies'
Conference;  hoped the young sisters would
put into practice the good teachings given
them by the sisters, who had come in such
inclement weather from Salt Lake City to
meet with them. After singing and prayer,
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Saturday, the 20th of March, a very in-
teresting concert was given in the Social
Hall by the Primary Association of Tooele,
under the supervision of their President,
Rebecca Williams, and her Counselors. It
consisted of songs, recitations and dialogues,
prepared expressly for the occasion, and
great praise is due the children for the
pleasing way in which they rendered their
parts. The time was well spent, to those
who are interested in the welfare of the
rising generation.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.
Tooele, March 27, 1880.


