TEMPERANCE.

	Temperance is a word which compre-
hends a very great proportion of our moral,
social and spiritual welfare. A temperate
course of life in all things tends to our well-
being, and without it we are not prepared
to enter upon any path of life that will be
useful. The opposite, intemperance, is one
of the greatest evils that now exists in the
world. Who could number the homes it has
made desolate, the misery it has caused? I
have often wondered what has occasioned
the most misery, and I believe, that were
they all numbered, we would find that in-
temperance has been the greatest evil.
Many measures have been adopted to check
the rapid growth of intemperance. Wo-
men have sought, by prayers, entreaties
and tears, both in public and private, to
save from ruin their fathers, husbands, sons
and brothers, but only in rare instances has
it been possible to accomplish the desired
good. The children of the Latter-day
Saints are instructed to abstain in early life
from the use of anything that will create
an appetite for those things which are poi-
son to the human system, and which change
men from their own noble natures to brutes
and fiends in human form; and bring want,
misery and ruin as their inevitable conse-
quence. The heritage they leave for those
they once fondly loved and cherished,
broken vows, broken hearts, hunger, want
and sorrow, and for themselves disgrace,
degradation and a drunkard's grave.
		BEATRICE.
	Salt Lake City, May, 1876.


A GREAT writer says: "Men need wives
who are in love with them; simple tolerance
is not enough to stand the strain of married
life." Very true. But let us also remark,
women need husbands who are in love with
them; simple tolerance is not enough, &c.
	A DISPATCH from Geneva announces the
death of Edouard Henri Girardet, the paint-
er and engraver. His father was Charles
Samuel Girardet, an engraver. His broth-
ers are Karl, a painter, and Paul, an en-
graver. Edouard was born at Neutchatel,
July 21, 1819, studied in Paris, and after-
ward traveled in Egyyt and Algeria with
his brother Karl. Since 1839 he has been a
frequent exhibitor and the recipient of sev-
eral medals for genre painting, and one for
engraving.—Ex.


