				WEBER STAKE.

	The Quarterly  Conference, of Ladies Re-
lief Society, held in Ogden City, in the Tab-
ernacle, March 18th, 1880.
	There were  present,  Apostle  Richards,
President Peery, and Counselors,Bishops of
Ogden and  some  from  the  settlements.
Sister E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young, and J. S.
Richards and Counselors Sisters Herrick and
Brown and many others,both here and from
the different parts of the county.
	After the  usual  opening  exercises,  the
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted. sister Brown then read the
reports of the  several  Wards,  after which
Sister Richards  made a  few  opening re-
marks.  Was glad to be able  to  meet with
us, had proved how good it was  to be  able
to attend  after  being kept  away.  Felt
thankful  to see  Sister  Snow  and Sister
Young. Sister Snow had a severe cold, but
through faith in God, was able to attend to-
day.  Sister Richards said she missed Sister
Frodsham, this being the first  Conference
since her death.  Sister  Frodsham  in  her
last moments, blessed  the  sisters for  their
help and kindness to her during her illness;
she showed a truly greatful  spirit, and felt
that she was going to her rest in peace, and
being overcome,  she  could  say no  more;
and hoping  that  God  would bless  us with
His Spirit, she gave way.
	Sister Young was pleased  to  be  able  to
meet with her sisters.  Asked  an interest
in their prayers.  Felt that we were blessed
above all other women; she spoke of Sister
Frodsham, and said she had gone home,
[Column 2]
and we could say, well done thou good and
faithful servant.  She felt thankful for
these organizations.  Let us be united.
There is more need of it now than ever be-
fore.  Spoke of doing  the work  for our
dead; said we should not neglect this great
duty.  We could weep  for sinners,  but not
for those who  live  in  the  light.  Let us
live and work while we can.  We must not
feed on chaff instead of wheat, when we can
have the spirit of  God dwelling with in  us.
We are better wives and mothers and shed
sunshine  around  all  we  come  in  contact
with, but without it we  can  do  nothing.
Said we must make a success of silk culture;
we want to supply the various  trades with
sewing silk--there  is money  in  it.  Said
when we study refinement and the principles
of life, and what we should be,  we  should
learn the principles of health in everything.
Said we should be very  careful in speaking
before children, as they will notice  and re-
member everything, whether it  be evil  or
good;  never speak evil  of  any one  before
them.  Do not tarnish  their  young  minds.
Let us try  to do  our  duty everyday.  We
have the  privilege of prayer,  whether  our
companions or husbands are  with  us or  not;
we can ask God to bless us and our children.
See to it, mothers, that the home is happy
enough to make the boys as well as the girls
happy, and love to stay there.  She blessed
all in the name of  the Lord.
	President Peery said: Sister Snow is now
76, years of age, and if she could come all
the way from  Salt  Lake  City  to  attend
our  conference,  that  we  surely  could
attend  who  live  here.  If  what  the
Lord  has  said  is  not  true,  we  have
lived  in  vain.  The  happiest  part  of
our life is when the  spirit  of  God is with
us.  It is  much  better to talk of the  prin-
ciples of our  religion  than to gossip.  Men
are better  who  consult  with  their  wives.
The women are better and  purer than  the
men.  The speaker  had heard the  name of
Sister Snow all over the  States long  before
he come to Utah, and said her name will be
spoken by thousands yet unborn, who will
look back  with  pride  and  pleasure  upon
the great work the women have done; and
they will be blessed.
						2 P. M. 
	After the usual singing and prayer Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow said:  I  am  not  abroad
because I particularly  desire it;  some of  us
are more  at  home, others  less  than we
should be.  It is  sometimes  difficult to tell
when we are doing  the  most  good;  we
should seek wisdom  and learn to know our
Father in Heaven  and  to  keep  open  the
channel of communication  between us  and
Him, for there is such a connection between
our spiritual and temporal  natures that  re-
freshing influence upon one affects the other.
The  wisdom  of  God  has placed us in these
institutions, that by finding intercourse and
associations we may improve.  The institu-
tions of the  world will not  elevate us as the 
requirements of the Gospel will--we must
stoop, not rise, to conquer, and ought to be
more  united  than  we  are.  Allusion  has
been made to what we have  done, but this
is not enough;  we want as  many as can  to
take a share  and  show an  interest  in  the
silk culture, the brethren as well  as the
sisters, if they will.  An  association is
already organized  and incorporated,  with
Bro.  Wm. Jennings as its president.
	The resignation of Sister Josephine West
having been accepted, Sister  Elizabeth Y.
Stanford was elected  corresponding  secre-
tary instead.
	Sister Snow presented the  nomination of
Sister Harriet M. W.  Poulter  for secretary
[Column 3]
of Weber Stake Relief Society, and she was
unanimously  voted in.
	Apostle F.  D.  Richards  reminded  the
societies present of Pres.  Brigham Young's
last request of the  sisters  in  Weber  county
that they persevere and raise mulberry trees
and make the silk  for  their own  use,  that
our  clothing  ought  to  be  better  than the
shoddy outfit  of the  world as  our  gospel
faith is better than  their religious  dogmas.
We want to unite our faith  and  our  efforts
so that our  spirits  will  flow  together  like
drops  of water that  cannot be separated.
God has provided  proper  tribunals  in  the
Church for the adjusments of all our mis-
understandings, whether  of a business or a
doctrinal  character,  whether  of  things
temporal or  principles  spiritual,  that  can
affect the welfare of any one in the Church.
 The Relief  Societies  are  organized  in
such perfect harmony with the order of the
Church and of  the  priesthood  that there is
no occasion  for  any  discord  between  the
officers or members of one, and any  officer
or member of the  other,  either in a Stake
or ward capacity.  The presidents and bish-
ops with the aid of the societies are enabled
to carry any measures or information, neces-
sary to further the interest of  the  Church,
into  ever  family  and  household  of  the
Saints so that not only the destitute, but the
sick  are found our and their necesities
administered unto.  Most of the Presidents
and Bishops have learned  to  properly  ap-
preciate those aids and helps  to  them in
thier government, while the few who have
not,are afflicting themselves with unfounded
apprehensions, spending  their strength un-
necessarily and are behind the times in the
spirit of their work.
	Counselor L. J. Herrick and Bishop F. A.
Hammond  endorsed the sentiments of the
speakers alluding especially  to the remarks
of Sisters Snow and Young.
	Friday morning  was devoted to the Con-
ference  of Y. L. M. I. A.,  begining with
the usual exercises and  the reading of min-
utes.  The reports were  good  and  showed
that 5,948 chapters had been read in Church
works during  the  quarter.  Remarks were
made by Sisters  Sarah  Herrick, Emily S.
Richards and Zina D. Young, and then Pres-
ident John Taylor addressed the congrega-
tion.  He was pleased with the labors of the
sisters in their efforts to instruct the young.
He spoke on education; many of the ideas
of the people of the  world  were  erroneous
regarding education,  and  many  of  them
were correct.  Some who had attended in-
stitutions of learning considered their  edu-
cation  finished,  but  as  long  as life lasted,
man and woman  had  something  to learn,
for their education must  be far above  that
of the present day before they were prepared
to associate with  intelligences  of the other
world.  It was of the greatest necesity that
boys and girls should learn to express them-
selves in  language intelligently, properly,
and understandingly, and at the same time
they should be taught the importance of the
position they hold to their parents and their
fellow-creatures.  Goodness,  courtesy and
obedience  went  far to  show  what chil-
ren were.  The Saints should not copy  the
example of the world  in  selfishness, they
should respect every man in  his  place in
honor preferring  one  another,  while  thus
doing they would make themselves happy,
and shed tranquility  and  joy to  all with
whom they associate.  In their homes the
young should make  themselves agreable to
everybody and especially to their parents.
By thus doing  they  would  have  helpers
behind the veil  to  plead  for  them  when
their parents had died and  they were left
struggling with the things  of this world


[Column 1]Parents should never do[-]an[-] act or utter a
word which they would be ashamed to
have their children hear.
	As high as the heavens were above the
earth, so high were the things revealed to
us above anything the world could teach or
knew anything about. The children should
seek God,call upon His name, having clean
hands and pnre hearts, and in the name of
God he promised them the Lord would
hear their prayers. By following this
course, the boys and girls would grow up to
walk as free, humble, virtuous and good
men and women in a world of a wicked
and perverse generation.
	He closed by asking the blessing of the
Lord to rest on all.
	The minutes of the meeting of the Prim-
ary Associations as a Conference will be
published in our next number [--]. M. W. P.

