IMPROVED PROCESS.

	A new process of etching drawings, or
letters on glass, has been devised by Herr
Grune, of Berlin. The old method of etch-
ing was by means of dilute fluoric acid, in
which the unprotected surface of the glass
was eaten away. The new process avoids
many of the old difficulties, and enables the
workman to stamp, mark or ornament glass
as if it were paper. The principle applied
is as follows: The quality of the fluoric
acid used is the same as in the old process,


but the drawing is no longer made with a
substance absolutely proof against the acid,
but with another, protecting the glass only
to a certain point of time, thus showing, in
the drawing, the elevated marked opaque
appearance. For such a covering, almost
all the lacs oil varnishes, greasy printing
dyes, etc., except the solutions of asphal-
tum, gutta percha and caoutchouc can be
used. If applied thin, they yield to the
concentrated fluoric acid, even after a few
seconds, no matter how firmly dried they
may have become! If the substances for
covering are used simply for the above-
named purposes, they yield only a very
feebly-marked design, partly marked and
partly blank; but if dusted after applica-
tion with a finely-pulverized powder of
metal, copal, or any other substance capable
of rendering longer resistance to the fluoric
acid, the opaque drawing is obtained di-
rectly. This is the essential point of in-
vention. The practical execution of this
style of etching is carried out as follows:
The article to be decorated receives the
drawing by hand, stamp, or, as the case
may be, by transfer. For the material,
choose an oily lac mixed with a little paint,
so as to show on the glass. This done, dust
in the powder. When dry, dip the part
with the drawing into the fluoric acid, or
put the latter on with a brush and allow it
to remain a few seconds, or until the pow-
der begins to come off. Then rinse with
water. The greasy substance need not be
removed, as the fluoric acid absorbs it.—The
Watchman.
	CORAL FRAMES.—Have a frame made of
pine to fit the picture you intend to frame.
Then from the currant bush, or any gnarled
bush or tree, cut small twigs and tack them
to the frame with slender tacks; then melt
of yellow resin four parts and one part of
vermilion. While warm, apply with a
brush, or pour over with a spoon, covering
the twigs and the parts of the frame that
show. It is a good imitation of coral and
does not break easily.—Farm and Fireside.


