THE JUBILEE CONFERENCE.

	The Fiftieth Annual Conference of the
Church has closed its session and adjourned.
The meetings lasted three days, during which
time a great deal of important business was
transacted and much excellent instrnction
given in a powerful and impressive manner to
the saints. A good degree of the Spirit of the
Lord seemed to pervade the assembly during
the entire session of the Conference. According
to the testimony of some of the oldest members
of the Church it was one of the most enjoyable
Conferences ever held since the organization
in April 1880.
	The fact of its being a half century since the
commencement of the Latter-day work in an
organiz[-]d capacity, gave a peculiar sort of pres-
tige to the entire psoceedings, that will make it
memorable in the history of the Church, as a
time of general rejoicing; and indeed the char-
acter of the preaching was calculated to hallow
the occasion.
	There was much about it in keeping with a
year of Jubilee, and surely many hearts have
been made glad by the spirit of liberality man-
ifested by the brethren in remitting the obliga-
tions of the poor and unfortunate, and helping
them substantially, by distribu[-]ing one thous-
and cows and five thousand sheep, to the
widows and the destitute.
	This is indeed a new era of things and cannot
fail to bring down the blessing of heaven upon
those who are generously assisting in this grand
effort to bless the Lord's poor. The Scripture
says "the liberal man deviseth liberal things
and by his liberality he shall live." There has
been some positive proof of liberality during
this Conference and no doubt that "in blessing,
these will be blessed, who have, and will, aid
in this magnanimous work.
	Half the debt due to the P. E. Fund by the
poor has been canceled. One half of unpaid
tithing due has also been remitted. This will
assuredly give the people a fresh impetus to pay
the remainder.
	Another proof of the desire on the part of
those in antnority to bless the Saints is in dis-
tributing the wheat which has been stored by
the sisters for the benefit of Zion, among those
who are without the necessary seed for the pre-
sent season;last year having been an unusually
dry season and in consequence a failure in crops.
The sisters were called upon to vote first sep-
parately on this question. The Bishops how-
ever are to be responsible and the wheat is to be
returned after harvest. There is no doubt but
this is a wise move, and will be the means of 
doing a double good. The brethren will have
the use of the wheat for seed and the sisters
will have new wheat to store up for a time of
scarcity.


On the last day of the Conference the meet-
ing  was addressed by each of the Apostles in
turn.  Elder  L. Snow  was  the first speaker,
followed by Elders  Wilford Woodruf[-], Orson
Pratt C. C. Rich, Erastus Snow, F. D. Richards,
Brigham Young, Joseph F. Smith, Albert Car-
rington,  Moses  Thatcher  and  D.  H.  Wells
Pres. John Taylor closed with an eloquent and
earnest appeal to the people to live their religion
blessing them in the name of the Lord.
	The congregation  standing  sang  Doxology
and Conference was adjourned  until  Oct. 6,
1880.  Prayer by Elder Wilford Woodruff.


