TWO DAYS MEETINGS.

	Two Days Meetings were held in the Salt
Lake  Assembly  Hall  Sunday  and  Monday
April 4 and 5 immediately preceding the An-
nual Conference  at  which  there  was  a  very
numerous attendance.  Much  good instruction
was given and the wavering and the evil doers
were rebuked,and exhorted to reformation and
repentance.  On Sunday opening remarks were
made by President John  Taylor.  Elder  Wil-
ford Woodruff then gave a  brief  summary  of
his  tour  through  the  settlements  South  in
Arizona and other places,  related  some  inci-
dents which transpired during his stay among
the Indians  and  gave  a  brief  description of
their houses  and  manner  of  living.  Elder
Moses Thatcher made  some  very  interesting
remarks about  Mexico  and  his  tour  through
that region of country.  Elder Thatcher said at
the time  of the  conquest  of  Mexico  by  the
Spaniards in 1530,  they  were  an  enlightened
people and possessed a knowledge of  the  arts
and  sciences,  especially  architecture.  They
had  written  history and  many  large  libraries
which the Catholic priest who followed Cortez
caused  to  be  burned. they have  preserved
sufficient history and tradition to  corroborate
the testimony in the Book of  Mormon,  in re-
gard  to  the  Savior's  visit  to  this continent.
They have a tradition  of 8 barges  crossing the
sea and of  the  compass;  also  a  sacred  record
having  been  concealed  in  the  earth. The
speaker spoke feelingly in regard to that race of
people and hopefully of their release  from  the
thraldom which had  bound them for 350 years.
Elder Orson Pratt gave a brief sketch of his ex-
perience in the early days of the Church;  said
he remembered the first conference he had at-
tended of Jan. 2, 1831, in a log house in Central
New York when there were about 70 or 80 mem-
bers. He referred  to the  year  of  Jubilee  and
the seventh day  of  rest,  which he considered
typical of  the seventh  thousand year  termed
the  Millennium  when  Christ  should  come.
Spoke of the literal sounding of seven trupets
and the  preparatory  work  for  the  literal re-
demption.
	Elder C.  C.  Rich  spoke  upon  necessity of
fulfilling duties building Temples  and Mission-
ary work.
	President Taylor  regretted  that  the  house
would not accommodate  more people.  Stated
that the Lord required of all the officers of His
kingdom a thorough principle of righteousness
and not a nominal religion.
	Elders Brigham Young, Joseph  F. Smith
D.H. Wells, Pres. Joseph  Young, Pres. A. O.
Smoot and Elder J. Van Cott each addressed
the meeting on the principles  of our  religion,
its duties and obligations, the necessity of liv-
ing  pure  and  holy lives, and  gave  much ex-
cellent instruction to the Latter Day Saints.
	Pres. Taylor made some closing remarks, and
adjourned the  meeting  to  the  Conference  in
the  Tabernacle  the  following  morning, April
6.


