WORK FOR MOTHERS.

	How shall we protect the children from
partaking of the evils that are growing up
in our midst? One cannot walk the streets
of our beautiful city at the present time
without feeling the necessity of an influ-
ence being brought to bear against the evils
which are rapidly increasing, calculated to
lead astray the young and unwary. It is of
very little use to repeat that in the past, or
when we first came here, snch things were
not prevalent; we must look at the present
condition, and see what can be done to arrest
the progress of corrupt and wicked prac-
tices. The constant stream of tobacco smoke
that one is compelled to stem in walking up
Main Street in Salt Lake City is disgusting,
to say the least, to us who have been ac-
customed to breathe the pure air of heav-
en. "Once it was not so," you may hear on
all sides, from the good old folks who lived
in those "palmier days;" but that as I said
before is of no avail. It positively seems as
if smoking had become the hobby of hob-
bies. If any boy does not smoke, he is
urged, entreated, coaxed, and at last almost
compelled to try. In view of this fact,
every mother who esteems physical purity
as an essential condition, should be on the
lookout to prevent any intrusion of this
king tobacco into her dominion.
	Perchance some mother, sitting at home
by her quiet fireside, innocent and unsus-
pecting, may feel she is safe and that there
is no need to express one's self strongly on
the subject; but let that mother go out with
her veil up and her eyes open, and see the
little boys on the corners, morning, noon
and night, as I do, coming and going from
my daily labor, she might perhaps tremble
a little for her own little curly headed boy,
and wish too, perhaps, that some effectual
resistance might be made against the inva-
sion of this insidious foe to health and
purity.
	It may be a little thing at first, but it
makes that boy a slave, a slave to a craving,
morbid appetite, and I firmly believe is the
first step in thousands of instances to the
use of strong drink. This is not an attempt
at an essay upon tobacco,much as we despise
it, but only an appeal to mothers to watch
over their precious offspring and if possible
prevent any tendency to evil doing. Far
better puzzle your brains to invent methods
of amusing and entertaining the little boys
at home, at almost any cost or trouble, than
to send them out to play and have them
contract habits that are contrary to the spirit
and genius of the Gospel and its teachings.
	I have frequently heard the remark by
mothers, "I can do nothing with that boy, I
shall turn him over to his father." I never
hear it without thinking how much better
it would be to make persistent efforts than
to give up like that. Mothers can do much
in their own peculiar  way with the boys.
They will almost invariably listen to the
pleading of mother when they are young
and their consciences are pliable and tender.
	"Idleness is the parent of vice," is as
true to-day as ever; and one fact is appar-
ent, that while little girls are taught indus-
trious habits, in nine cases out of ten the
boys are left to play in the streets, and are

[Column 2]

often told to go, because they are noisy and
troublesome. Alas! for the nerves of the
poor mother; they may be terribly shocked
some day, when she becomes aware that her
boy has become reckless and a prodigal.
There are many useful things that boys can
do that are not in the least unbecoming
their dignity as the future race of men; and
they will be all the better, and happier too
if they are employed, instead of idling
away their time upon the streets, pattern-
ing after those whose example is not worthy
of imitation. I have only alluded to the
evil of smoking, but believe me there are
many companion evils among the boys upon
our streets that need to be guarded against.
