BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When I have spoken of women of a past
age, I do not do so with the idea that they
have no equals, or successors; I well know
the world teems with "mute inglorious
Miltons"—women as well as men—and I
most especially know such are among our
own community to-day, and ever have been
since the Church of Jesus Christ was organ-
ized upon the earth. It must be so, because
it is a Church of principle, and the sign of
the covenant is sacrifice; for the Lord said,
"Gather me together a people who have
made a covenant with me by sacrifice."
And this has in many instances been ac-
tually as severe as to Abraham, and indeed
more so, because for them there has been
no "ram caught in the thicket," as a sub-
stitute for their Isaacs; but truly their lives
have been "hid with Christ in God;" theirs
has in most cases been the "unwritten phil-
osophy of the 19th century."
	I have taken women in the past or present
age who have held prominent positions,
and therefore stand out in bold relief before
the world, as noble specimens of the cali-
bre, stamina and wisdom of woman, of her
ability and capability when she had a plat-
form on which she could develop herself.
Human nature is the same "yesterday,' to-
day and forever"—it is simply modified by
education, association and circumstance,
which bring out different phases of this
said human nature. The heroism of our
women has been in the silent endurance,
the noiseless fighting of the battle of life;
their biography has yet to be written, and
it will be most assuredly; they have a fu-
ture great, grand and eternal!
	There have been in all ages men and wo-
men in the world to whom it might with
truth be said, "Thou art not far from the
kingdom of God;" a voice will yet say to
them, "This is the way, walk ye in it," and
they will hear, and listen, and know it is
the voice of the Good Shepherd, and will
follow Him. But those women who have
come out of the world, and embraced the
principles laid down by their Savior, and
follow in His footsteps, and are taking daily
lessons in the school of their Lord, they
are becoming competent to judge historical
lives and characters with a clear and right-
eous judgment, and give the commendation
which some of them most richly deserve.
Of these, Josephine, the wife of the first
Napoleon, has claims on the women of this
people as a sister-spirit, greater than any
that I know of, or recall in history. She
passed through many ordeals, as severe as
any living woman; reverses the most se-
vere—poverty, imprisonment, condemned
to death at a certain hour, the husband of
her youth and the father of her children
thrown into prison, and by an unrighteous
judgment condemned to die by the awful
guillotine! her children and herself sus-
tained in her sad widowhood by the kind-
ness of loving friends, and all the fearful
etceteras of such trying circumstances.
Yet there was a more overwhelming trial
than all this, and the path that led to it was
grandeur and greatness, and the highest
earthly title, and a crown placed upon  her
head by the man to whom she gave her
hand, her heart, and, alas! her soul's wor-
ship. He loved, admired and appreciated
her—of this there can be no doubt—and he
allowed no hand but his own to place upon
her head the crown of France—the crown
of the renowned Charlemagne! and to the

[Column 2]

day of his death he ever spoke of Josephine
as the woman among women, the most per-
fect woman in France; and to eulogize her,
to shew her attentions etcetera, was the
sure way to find favor in his eyes!
	Yet, O man, man! Shall I tell it? He
sacrificed her, when he had come to the con-
clusion that she stood in the way of his
ambition!! Josephine had a son and daugh-
ter by her first husband, and Napoleon loved
them as his own children, and at one time
had decided that Eugene should be his
heir—whom he had exalted to be Viceroy
of Italy. Again, he decided that the son
of Hortense and his brother Louis should
succeed him; he was a child of great prom-
ise, but at five years of age this most be-
loved child died; and from that hour Jo-
sephine felt her doom was fixed. She had
brought no heir to Napoleon, and he had
determined that his dynasty must be es-
tablished; by degrees he intimated to Jo-
sephine the necessity of a divorce for the
good of France, and for the honor of him-
self. Every feeling of her soul collapsed
before the fearful prospect. She reasoned,
she contended; she loved France, she loved
her husband, he had been good to her, he
had been a father to her children, he had
exalted them to earthly grandeur and great-
ness; he was her hero, and her very soul
shrank in the prospect of being separated
from him. One evening, after a long dis-
cussion on the necessity of a divorce, Jo-
sephine arose, and taking Napoleon by the
arm, she gently drew him to the window,
she pointed out to him her star shining
brightly in the firmament, and said: "Be-
hold that bright star; it is mine! and re-
member, to me and mine, and not to thine,
has sovereignity been promised; separate,
then, our fates, and your star fades." It
had been foretold her in her youth that she
should be Queen of France, and though
she laughed at the time, it grew upon her
till it became a fixed idea in her mind—and
through her and her posterity did the regal
power indeed come. In many instances Na-
poleon shone by reflection through her. If
he was a man of destiny; she was most
conspicuously a woman of destiny, and
verily his co-mate, and Napoleon knew it,
till his ambition displaced reason from her
throne, and from that moment his star de-
clined, as Josephine told him it would.
These are facts before the world.
	But to return to Josephine. Could she
have known of the order of plural marriage,
by a legal constituted authority, how gladly
would she have presented Marie Louise to
Napoleon as his wife, and her prayers and
blessings would have adorned the presenta-
tion; anything would have been easy to her
could she still have remained his wife.
Could she have blest France and her hero-
husband, Josephine would have been a min-
istering spirit to both, yes to all, and Na-
poleon might have been saved the agonies
he passed through to gratify his ambition,
might have lived and died the world-re-
nowned hero that he most certainly was,
instead of dying an exile and a prisoner
alone on that vile, bleak rock, St. Helena,
excepting those devoted friends who vol-
untarily, and by their own request, accom-
panied him and remained faithful even
unto death.


