HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MEETING of the priesthood was held in the
Assembly Hall Thursday evening April 8th.
The meeting was addresed by Elder George
Teasdale, Apostle Erastus Snow and President
John Taylor. The authority of the sevesal
classes and callings of the priesthood were dis-
tinctly set forth and much general instruction
rich with inspiration was given.
	A. M. Musser, Secretary of the Utah Silk
Association, announces that they are now pre-
pared to purchase cocoons and reeled silk.
Those having cocoons and reeled silk for sale
will please call on Paul A. Schettler, Treasurer
of the Association, at the City Hall in this
city, and he will pay them the highest market
price for them, according to their quality. Ac-
tive preparaiions are being made for the erec-
tion of a silk factory, and as the machinery is
ready for use, the building only is wanting, and
the people may look hopefully to the success of
this most laudable enterprise. The books are
still open for shares, and the brethren and sis-
ters have the opportunity of ensuring shares
by paying twenty-five per cent. down.
	THE Deseret Sunday School Union held a
general meeting in the Assembly Hall Wedns-
day evening April 7, Superintendent Gorge
Goddard presiding. Out of the 21, Stakes 14
were represented. Addresses were made full
of good instruction by Superintendents G,
Goddard, of S. L., D. John, of Utah, J. G.
Bleak, St. George, R. Ballantyne, Weber Stakes
and by Apostle Woodruff, who gave an inter-
esting account of his travels among the Indi-
ans in Arizona. In one of the meetings where
he spoke to them of their origin and future
destiny one old Indian testified that these were
the men they had been looking for, who were
to come and tell them of their forefathers and
what they should do to be saved from the
curse that had come upon them. Our people
in Arizona were living in the United Order.
and there was no contention, swearing, smok-
ing, or drinking among them. Every settle-
ment had a Sunday School. Supt. S. L. Evans
called attention to a banner presented to the
Union by Katie Chase, The Hall was crowded
with people from all parts of the Territory.
	The monthly meetings will in future be held
in the Assembly Hall, and all connected with
or interested in Sunday Schools are cordailly
invited to attend.
	A MEETING of the Young men's Mutual Im-
provement Associations was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall Tuesday evening April 6,
1880. Present on the stand Pres. John Taylor,
Apostles, W. Woodruff, C. C. Rich F. D. Rich-
ards, Joseph F. Smith, Moses Thatcher and
D. H. Wells. Presidents of Salt Lake and
Utah Stakes: Junius F. Wells,Milton H. Hardy,
and Stake Superintendents and Representa-
tives from other counties.
	After singing and prayer President Taylor
addressed the meeting, making suggestions ex-
plaining and defining the nature of the organ-
izations and speaking at length upon the writ-
ten suggestions which were read before the
meeting. After Pres. Taylor finished his in-
structive remarks and explanations, Apostle
Willord Woodruff was nominated for General
Snpreintendent, with Apostles Jos. F. Smith
and Moses Thatcher as his assistants. These
nominations were carried unanimously. 
	Superintendent Woodruff then briefly ad-
dressed the meeting, oxpressing his interest in
the work of mutual improvement among the
young, and called for the statistical report, the
totals of which were accordingly read as fol-
lows:


Stake organizations  20; associations 240;
members 9,284; attendance  5,828;  quarterly
conferences 43; weekly meetings 2,458; conjoint
sessions 592;  extra meetings 145;  total meetings
3,  171;  visitors  sent  1,311; visitors received 1,
143; visits of county  and  general  officers  384;
members gone on missions 71; libraries 81;  vol-
umes 3,084; value  of  books $3,370. 45; man-
uscript  papers  283; financial exhibit showed
cash and  other property  on  hand $3,794.87;
Scripture reading,  total  chapters  read  76,942;
subjective  lectures  given 3,003; testimonies
borne 3,295. 
	Elder Junius F. Wells  addressed the  meet-
ing for a short time referring to the work which
had been accomplished by the Associations  in
the past  and  the  number  of  young  Elders
member of these organizations  that  had been
called upon missions.
	After the reading of the Report Superintend-
ent  Woodruff made a few remarks,  and  called
for a vote of the people  to  sustain  the  sugges-
tions of the Apostles  in relation to the organ-
ization, which  was  unanimous. A  preamble
and  resolutions  respecting cruelty  to  animals
and the killing  of birds  was  presented and the
sentiments expressed therein  voted upon.
 The meeting  was  dismissed  by  President
John Taylor.


