"THERE IS NO PLACE LIKE HOME."

	This poetic phrase is no less beautiful
than true. We find that the fond attach-
ment of home pervades all ranks and classes
of society.
	The wandering Scythians, with no abid-
ing habitation, maintained great regard and
veneration for the place where the bones
of their forefathers slumbered. The Indian
of the American forests, whose dauntless
spirit never quails before a foe, has, never-
theless, a heart which beats with the warm-
est love towards his friend, and for the spot
where stands his wigwam. In civilized so-
ciety how do we find it? What is it that
binds every sympathizing feeling of the
heart around the cottage where our fathers
dwelt? Is it because there is more intrin-
sic worth attached to it? Or is it those
heaven-born associations which connect each
tree or flower,brook or rill,each hill and dale
with some joyful recollection of happy,
hours spent with beloved friends who now,
perhaps, sleep beneath the cold sod of the
valley? Yes, that tends more firmly to
rivet the ties of affection, to paint to the
imagination scenes which occurred at home,
and to call up from the wrecks of the past,
hours sacred to memory. Yet these asso-
ciations, joyous as they are, would sink into
comparative nothingness, if from that cir-
cle where we spent our youthful days in
the sunshine of pleasure, was removed a
mother! Yes, home, sweet as it is, would
bo like a Temple stripped of its garlands,
were it not for the sacred name of mother
to consecrate its portals.
	Like the evening dew which scatters its
fragrance while all else is wrapped in the
slumbers of night, the mother, while every
other ear is deaf, is attentive to our griefs,
mingles her tears in the cup of our misfor-
tune, and soothes our most fearful agonies,
stands by us even unto death. What a sol-
emn place for contemplation is the grave of
our mother! Then is it that we compre-
hend the charms that are conveyed in that
soothing word of all words, MOTHER—when
the grave has hidden her from our view.
