	TO THE 17TH  WARD  RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Dear Sisters and Friends: Again our Treasur-
er has been  taken from  us  by  death.  Sister
Harriet Doremus departed this life on Tuesday
March 10, 1880.  She was  elected Treasurer of
this Society, in June 24; 1875 to fill the vacancy
caused by the death  of Sister  Eliza  A. Felt.
[Column 2]
She has faithfully, kindly and  honorably  dis-
charged the labors pertaining to this office, un-
til last  September,  when  her  health  utterlly
failed, and she resigned  the office for a  season
of rest.
	There are none of us who did not love and re-
spect her and those who knew her best  loved
her most. Out hearts were all wrung by her
long suffering,  and her  dying  hours  spread a
vall of gloom over the whole Society.
	We feared that we should  have to part with
her yet hoped and prayed  that  God would  re-
store her,to live a few years mo[-]e of usefulness.
	Many of you will remember a Meeting held
in the School House, a year ago  last  August,
when she spoke of how  well  she felt in the
Church of God and how earnestly she desired
a long life that she might do good;  she had no
other desire, but our  All  Wise Father  knows
best, and we must submit to His will.
	Her family have lost a noble faithful mother
we a loving friend, a kind sister endeared to us
by association and the ties that bind us togeth-
er, as a band of God's daughters; who are strug-
gling in an humble, feeble way, to do good and
work righteuosness,  while  here  in  exile  far
from Him, that we may receive words  of  ap-
probation,  when  we go home.
	Let her example, her pure humble life, be an
example to us, who are still on the journey.
We must work a little longer, be  tried a  little
more, wander a little longer through this weary
world,  that  we  may  prove  our  integrity  our
faithfulness, and see if we will hold firm to the
Iron Rod through sufferings  and  sorrows even
unto Death.  This Sister Doremus has  done.
Kept  the  faith; been  true  to  her integrity,
humble in her walks of life, and has now gone
to her rest.  Well and truthfully it was said  of
her, "She was one of God's noblest daughters

In the grave thy body's resting, deep they sleep  so free
	from care,
After sorrow fierce and trying, naught can hurt or try
	thee there.
Calmly  as the  sun at  evening,  goes to rest in clouds of
	gold,
So the life so good and noble, leads thee  to the shepherd's
	fold.
