EDITORIAL NOTES.

Elder E. J. Pearce, recently returned
from New Zealand, favored us with a call,
and handed us "The New Zealand Herald,"
containing a synopsis of a lecture delivered
by him in the Temperance Hall, Albert St.,


Auckland. Elder Pearce has been very
successful in his missionary labors, although
he met with some opposition and a little
persecution. We would say in this connec-
tion that some gentlemen and ladies of in-
telligence and education, who sailed across
from New Zealand in company with Brother
Pearce, called at our office and spoke in
terms of praise of his preaching on board
ship. They seemed to entertain for him
great respect. We have read with interest
the synopsis of his lecture as published, and
find it embraces an item of almost all the
principal events in the history of the
Church. He has also touched upon many
points of doctrine calculated to awaken an
interest in the minds of thinking men and
women to know more of the Gospel. He
has baptized some, who are ready to gather
home to Zion when circumstances will per-
mit them. We trust a new field of labor is
opening up among that people.
	ONCE more Salt Lake City has a home
Dramatic Club. We hope it may afford the
theatre-goers as much entertainment of a
useful, moral character as the one organized
shortly after settling  in this valley. The
first performance given by these young
amateurs was "The Romance of a Poor
Young Man" which was a good selection.
The different parts were appropriately dis-
tributed, and seemed to suit the style and
character of each respective performer.
Miss Lottie Claridge, as Marguerite, looked
and acted the heroine admirably, and de-
serves great praise for her careful attention
to every particular. Mrs. Dellie Cummings,
as the jealous and spiteful governess, did
some fine acting. Mrs. Mamie Clawson
played "Mama" to perfection. Miss Lida
Wells, as Madame Aubrey was exceedingly
funny, and though she wept copiously the
audience laughed in proportion. She
dressed it in perfect keeping with the ec-
centric Dame. Miss Grundland as Louise,
and little Ivy Clawson were both piquant
and pleasing. The gentlemen surpassed
the expectations of their friends by far.
Mr. Cummings, as Manuel, the young no-
bleman, was graceful and noble in manner
and gesture. And his fine, clear voice
showed careful cultivation. Mr. O. F.
Whitney as Dr. Desmarets pleased every-
body, and evinced not only careful study of
his part, but a naturalness that cannot fail
to be attractive. H. M. Wells was quite at
his ease as the real French dandy, De Beva-
nnes, and certainly did his part towards
making the whole play a success. John D.
Spencer, as Laroque, played perhaps the
most difficult part, but he maintained the
dignity of the character perfectly. All the
parts were well rendered. This seems to
be the universal opinion. We congratulate
the young people on having made so favor-
able an impression with their first piece.
We understand the "Home Dramatic Club"
will make their next appearance on the
30th of May, Decoration Day.


SUNNY ROOMS.—Light is one of the most
active agencies in enlivening and beautify-
ing a home. We all know the value of sun-
light as a health-giving agent to the physi-
cal constituion; and it is not less so to our
moral than physical natures. We are more
active under its influence—can think better,
and act more vigorously.
	Even a gloomy house, where furniture
and walls are dingy and brown, we have
but to take down the heavy curtains, open
wide the windows, hang brackets on either
side, set pots of flowers on the brackets,
and let the warm sun stream in, to bring
health to our bodies and joy to our souls.


