WHEREFORE AND WHY?

	If I be wicked, woe is me; and if I be righteous yet will
I not lift up mine head: I am full of confusion, therefore
see thou mine affliction.—Job.

Why do misfortunes encompass the just?
Why do they still The Omnipotent trust?
Why are we smitten? the weary ones cry,
Show us the reason, the wherefore and why.

Is not the sky of the scoffer most fair?
Seldom for God do the fortunate care;
Why should they seek Him, or praise Him for aught?
Surely their blessings with money are bought.
God they forget in their wealth and their pride,
They honor Him not, nay, they cast Him aside;
Yet they prosper, they flourish, they lift themselves high,
While truer ones ponder the wherefore and why.

While truer ones often of comforts are shorn,
They labor in patience, or wander forlorn;
Unnoted and jostled they pass in the crowd;
Ignored by the wealthy and scorned by the proud.
Some friends (?) such as Job's, will in kindness essay
To warn and reprove ('tis their comforting way):
And little is left, but on God to rely,
To feel that with Him is the wherefore and why.

For patience and strength we need evermore pray,
For one standeth ready to tempt and betray:
An accuser he tries us with troubles most sore,
Till the Lord cries, "Enough! thon shalt vex them no
	nore."
"Oh, let this cup pass,"  e'en the Savior did breath,
Yet the Father's Beloved had no special reprieve;
He knew 'twas His mission to suffer and die.
He knew more than mortals the wherefore and why.

The foxes had holes, and the birds had their nests,"
But the Son of the Highest had no place of rest;
Like the prophets of old and the prophets to-day,
A forfeit of blood had the Savior to pay.
And was He not mocked by humanity's dross?—
"Art thou the Christ? then come down from the cross."
How many in anguish re-echo his cry—
"God, hast thou forsaken me, wherefore and why?"

Sometimes His presence our Father doth hide—
To test us and prove us, as gold can be tried;
Then whispers the tempter, "The Lord doth not care,
Vain is thy patience, thy faith and thy prayer;"
But if love of uprightness within us is born,
We'll be true, though the enemy laughs us to scorn.
"Though the Lord should e'en slay us," we faithful will
	die,
Content with His purpose, the wherefore and why.
But not unto death will He cast us all down,
For all will not merit the martyr's bright crown;
All are not able great crosses to bear,
All are not worthy great honors to share.
Be not discouraged, nor sorely perplexed,
In confidence wait for whate'er may come next:
The sun and the rainbow shall illumine the sky,
Making clear to our vision the wherefore and why.

Let the scoffers revile "and imagine things vain,"
The Lord will the righteous approve and sustain;
As the hairs of each head our Creator doth know,
So the just live by faith, and they fear not a foe.
And e'en, if for wisdom's insructable ends,
We are wounded the most in the house of our friends,
Yet the patient and true can this ordeal defy,
God helps them to wait for the wherefore and why.

And surely we all have some friends that are true,
They are even more precious because they are few;
We can trust their affection, they never betray,
Their aim is to bless us, whatever they say;
They look through the surface, they see farther down,
They lift up the weary, but not with a frown.
Hath it "pleased God to bruise us," our honor to try,
They judge not our sins as the wherefore and why.
Was Job tried in vain? Nay! for all coming time
His afflictions have furnished a lesson sublime.
Upreared by endurance, nor built on the sands,
His trust and his triumph a mouument stands.
Are we wicked? Like Job, then, be unto us woe:
Are we righteous? Yet still let us keep ourselves low;
If troubled, be true, in the near by and by,
God, who sees us, will show us the wherefore and why.

