WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I should like my voice to  be  heard in behalf
of the Richmond sisters and I am happy to say
as a unit they are  willing  to  do  their  part  in
humility to help roll on  the kingdom in their
sphere, visiting the sick, relieving the wants of
the poor,attending their  meetings and striving
to be in very  deed  helpmeets to the Priesthood
of the living God.
	Since my last we have  had  our  Society  re-
organized.  Sister  Almyra Merrill  is  now our
President; Sisters  Julia  Petty  and Betsy
Brower Counselors and Sister  Mary  Allsop;
Treasurer, who all desire by the help of God to
do what is required of  them  in  all  humility
and meekness.  Our finances are  not  very ex-
tensive; we meet  in  the  Meeting  House but
we are  looking  forward  shortly to be  able to
erect a house of our own  where the sisters will
have an  opportunity  of meeting  together and
rejoicing in the principles  of  truth they  have
espoused.  We are trying  to do  our duties  as
sisters in the Relief  Society  and  striving  to
keep pace  with the times;  we attend  the  sick,
look after the  wants of the poor, and if we fail
in any duty it is  through  ignorance  and  not
willful neglect.  We are  ever  pleased  to  read
the EXPONENT.  It is a good  little  paper  and
may  the  blessings  of  God  attend  those  who
through its columns are advocating the Gospel
truth[-].
	And now a few  words  about  woman.  We
read in the Bible of woman  being  created  for
man's companion and helpmeet,  standing  by
his side: when  she was  tempted  she  ate  the
forbidden fruit,then tempted Adam and he did
eat (which by the by  proved she  was the best
in argument)  the Lord cursed  her  thus,  "Thy
desire shall be to thy  husband and he shall rule
over thee"  ect.  etc.  Rule over thee!
	These are  the times  of  the restitution of all
things as it was in the beginning.  Hence this
curse has to be removed.  God bless  the  noble
and the  true-hearted  women  at  home  and
abroad.  May their watchword ever be upward
and onward.
	May God bless all our  endeavors  to  further
the work of God on the earth.
								B.J.B.


