know of the custom of supplying wearing costumes suited to the occasion.

On this occasion it would seem that provision had been made for every one to be supplied with the necessary festive attire.

This fact may account for the speechlessness of the intruder, he could make no excuse for he knew that the king knew that wedding garments had been given to all who came in at the door.

Therefore, he merited the treatment of a "thief and a robber." Then arises the question as to what was meant by the wedding garment without which no one could legally enter, or be permitted to remain in the kingdom.

Was it not the robe spoken of in Gal. 3:27? One biblical authority says: "The wedding garment is righteousness, in its largest sense: the whole adornment of the new and spiritual man, including faith, without which it is impossible to please God, and the holiness, without which no man shall see him?or like this guest, shall only see him to perish at his presence." The outer darkness is a state of weeping through disappointment, and gnashing of teeth through hatred.

Of the lessons taught by this the last parable, spoken by Jesus to a mixed assembly, the following seem most prominent: 1. The Lord desires the happiness of all. 2. The Lord is not dependent on any special class of per-. Sons for the carrying out of his purposes. 3. The Lord has a way of scrutinizing every individual no matter how great the group. 4. Blessings can be obtained only through obedience to law.

Parable of the Entrusted Talents?Matt. 25:14-30. "For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods.

"And unto one he gave five talents, to astettien.

Two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey.

"Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents.

"And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two.

"But he that had received one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his Lord's money.

"After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them.

"And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 
 "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

"He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them.

"His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

"Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: "And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.

"His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury.

"Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.

"For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Comment?This parable has something in common with the parable of the Pounds recorded in Luke 19:11-27. They both aim at the encouragement of faithfulness in the use of ability and opportunity.

Each teaches the necessity of implicit confidence in the Lord as paymaster.

In both instances the proprietors were going on journeys.

In both parables loyalty and effort were rewarded, while disloyalty and negligence were met with merited punishment ?the outer darkness which always follows iniquity.

Both parables are illustrative of the truth couched in the statement, Care for and keep; neglect and lose.

These parables differ in that in one, the amounts entrusted were equal; in the other the distribution of capital was according to the capacity of the servant?"every man according to his several ability." The parables of the Pounds was spoken on the way from Jericho to Jerusalem to a mixed multitude.

The parable of the Entrusted Talents, the last of his parables, was spoken to His disciples after his final visit to the temple.

Among the lessons of life to be learned from the parable of the Entrusted Talents stands out in bold relief the importance of doing our best with what is entrusted to our care.

Had the 
 12. To whom was the last parable spoken, and what great Latter- 13. Discuss the problem: Our good works follow us as lifting evers.

LESSON II (Second Week in February) | Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February Curfew Law A siren or bell should not be necessary to establish the observance of this law.

A sentiment in favor of its value ought to be encouraged - in every home.

The Lord has told us the value of retiring early, in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88. Sleep is as conducive to health as food.

LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent.

He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet.

Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician.

Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking.

Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans.

We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth.

Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it?