[Vol11 | December 1924 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial—A Greeting From Across the Sea]

We greet you from across the sea from a land that has held the leadership of the world from the 
days of ancient Rome, until the period of the Great War-from a land that has produced great 
painters and musicians and writers, great scientists and preachers and statesmen-from a country 
covered with buildings of architectural fame, of world-old churches whose spires reach toward 
heaven and whose bells chime out on the Sabbath air, "Peace on earth, good will to men."
In this country some of you, and many of your fathers and mothers and grandparents, were born.  In 
the spring of the year I ate dinner with a lady who had lived all her 1ife within an easy walk of 
Warwick castle.  I have had as an acquaintance for many years a woman who knew the city of 
Canterbury as if by rote.  She knew the cathedral, the archbishop's palace, the bell called "Old 
Hal," after Henry VIII, the little tea shop were Dickens is said to have met McCawber, and the 
homes of Agnes and Uriah Heap.  She knew the long Dover road and nearly all the places of interest 
in her native city.  I have another ac-quaintance whose home was in Paris, and who reveled in the 
dramatic stories furnished us by French history and i11i its many historic spots.  I have known, 
rather intimately, in my life, people from Cologne, Germany, from Berlin, Dresden, Brus-sels, 
Amsterdam, Copenhagen,. Stockholm and Christiania, and it is from these various lands I send you greetings at the Yuletide.
All of them have poured their gifts of mind and of heart into the great stream of an American life, 
and because of the richness of the contribution they have helped to make a great Amei-ica. Many· 
people who are of the Latter-day Saints lived according to the best light they· had in their native 
land, and then came the messengers of the Lord, and into their lives burst the £ulness of the 
knowledge of the everlasting gospel.  Their adopted coun-try is the land of Zion, hallowed and 
sanctified of God, and into . - this new land they have cast their lot, believing eventually that 
the_ disappointments of their native land will be overcome and that in the due course of time a 
Zion, acceptable to our God, will built on this continent, and earth receive her paradisiacal 
glory, and Christ will reign as King of kings and Lord of lords.

Utah Women Honored by National Council of Women

The National Woman's Relief Society has been greatly honored during the last year by the National 
Council of Women of the United States.  Our president, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams has been appointed 
state chairman of the Quinquennial Committee which is making arrangements for the Great 
Quinquennial_ Meet-ing of the International Council of Women to be held in Wash-ington, D. C., in 
May, 1925.  During the session, Mrs. Williams, with other state chairmen, will be special guests of 
the president, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, at banquet to be held in their honor.
Another  recognition is the  appointment (by the National, .
Council of Women of the United States of our general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, as one of the 
twenty delegates to represent the United States at this international meeting.
Our sister organization, the National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, has also been 
honored by having Mrs. Ruth May Fox, counselor to President Martha H. Tingey, on the executive 
board, where she serves as auditor.
