Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony LESSON VII THE EVERLASTING COVENANT OF MARRIAGE 1. Marriage Basic to Civilization. The human race without marriage would immediately face one of two calamities; namely, extinction or debasement below the level of the savage. Marriage is the foundation stone upon which civilization rests. Without it, degradation would know no bounds; with it, the human race may ascend close to the height of the gods. 2. Quite aside therefore from the question of racial continuance, marriage is basic in the affairs of human progress. The divine pronouncement that man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the Lord, possesses far more than theological significance. The man, with his superior muscular power and ruggedness of intellect, needs the leavening influence of the woman's gentleness and refinement. Likewise the woman, with her native reticence and retirement, needs the buoyancy of the man's strength and love of adventure. Neither can reach the highest possible attainment without the other. When man and woman are properly united they can travel much farther and much happier than either can travel alone. 3. The Home. Then too, it may also be said that without the home, civilization would rapidly decline and quickly disappear, for it is from this source that man obtains his most lasting as well as his most basic impressions. It is here that he spends his childhood, the truly plastic period of his lifetime; it is here that he is taught to pray and to revere the God who made him; it is here that he learns to love the two who gave him earthly life?his mother and his father?they upon whom he can depend even if the rest of the world deserts him. 4. And it is within the home that mature devotion is established between the husband and the wife? the product of love and service. It is here that the husband obtains his rest and receives encouragement to meet the problems of the day; it is here that the wife reigns supreme, administering with tireless and tender hands to those whom God has given her. This is the family unit, the place of greatest earthly happiness, the shrine of highest human attainment?the home, blessed of God and sacred to men. 5. Permanent Endurance. And yet the vast majority of human beings, even those who have faith in the continuance of life beyond the grave, entertain the belief that the family union terminates with death. Indeed this conviction is so deeply entrenched in human practices that nearly every marriage ceremony contains the provision that the compact extends only until death separates the contracting parties. The assumed reality of such a condition, however, stands as a cruel and unavoidable specter before the vision of all who are thus united in marriage. To them it means that the family relationship, with all its loveliness and beauty, will be brought to LESSON DEPARTMENT a sudden close with the advent of the grave, never to reappear in the resurrection. There are few sadder conditions in human experience than that of a husband or wife standing at the open bier of the departed companion entertaining no hope for renewal of relationship, not even in the distant eternities of future time. 6. Such a doctrine, however, is scarcely more than a repudiation of Divine justice?a denial of the parenthood of God. Not even a human being, devoid of the Eternal sense of right and wrong, would impose such a condition upon his seemingly helpless children, for where is the earthly parent who would separate those who love one another and never permit them to reunite again? And yet the family is only found in the Celestial Kingdom. And surely God is not so unmindful of his children as they are of their own. 7. If a consensus of human opinion were available, it would doubtless be to the effect that next in point of desirability to the resurrection of the dead, is the continuance of family relationship in the world to come. Indeed, the husband and the wife become so much a part of one another that the resurrection of the body would be scarcely more than a sombre reality, the one without the other. It is easily conceivable, too, that we will need one another then as much as we need one another now, both as a matter of happiness and of progress. Moreover, it is interesting to observe that it is not the part of Deity to create indispensable earthly institutions only to destroy them with the world to come. 8. Obedience Necessary. Occasionally the belief is expressed among the more understanding sectarians that the husband and the wife will belong to one another in the future world. But, plainly, it 715 is not sufficient merely to hope that such will be the case; it is not enough merely to leave the matter to the "wisdom and justice of God." To do so would not be greatly unlike the parent who hoped his children would do well in life but who made no effort to convert his hopes into reality. If blessings are to be received, the laws upon which they are predicated must be obeyed. This applies to everything within the realm of reality, spiritual as well as physical. 9. If, therefore, a man has hopes of receiving his wife in the resurrection, he should obey the law that makes such a condition possible. When the Savior was upon the earth in the meridian of time, he spoke to his disciples as follows: 'Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 18:18) This authority however was lost and according to self admission, the sectarian world possesses no power by which to unite man and woman in the family relationship for longer than the present life. 10. Authority Restored. The Lord, however, has not left his people helpless. On the occasion of Moroni's first visit to the Prophet at Palmyra, he quoted from the book of Malachi, thus: 'Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. * * * And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (Pearl of Great Price, page 51) 11. This prophecy was fulfilled some twelve years later in the Kirt716 land temple, April 3, 1836. On this occasion the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, for prayer. The Savior, Moses, and Elias visited them. Then, as the Prophet records: "After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said: Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi?testifying that he (Elijah) should 'be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come? to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse ? Therefore, the Keys of this dispensation are committed unto your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." (D. And C. 110: 13-16) 12. It is of course understood by the Latter-day Saints that the Keys of the Priesthood, as restored by Elijah, are as necessary in the marrying of the living as in the sealing of the dead. 13. Marriage for Eternity. The revelation concerning the eternity of the marriage covenant was committed to writing in the upper room of the Prophet's store, July 12, 1843,? slightly more than one year after the introduction of the temple ceremony at the same place. William Clayton, the Prophet's private clerk, wrote the revelation as it was dictated to him. Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother, was also present. There are many matters in the revelation pertinent to the present discussion, but space will not permit extended treatment here. It is recommended that the entire revelation be read as a matter of preparation. (See D. And C., Section 132) 14. It is important for the Latter-day Saints to bear in mind that the Keys of the Priesthood necessary to unite man and wife for eternity are held only by the President of the Church. He may delegate this authority to others, and likewise, withdraw it as he may choose. Following is the word of the Lord: "There is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the Keys of this Priesthood are conferred." (D. And C. 132:7) 15. The Lord has the following to say concerning marriages that are consummated according to his law: "If a man marry a wife by word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power and the keys of this priesthood, * * * it shall be done unto them in all things whatsoever my servant hath put upon them, in time and through all eternity; and shall be of full force when they are out of the world." (D. And C. 132:19) 16. Eternal Progress. The Lord has made it possible that by continued obedience to law those who are thus united in marriage may go on and on to ever-increasing heights; for, according to his word: "They shall pass by the angels, and the gods which are set there to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting because they continue; then shall they be above all because all things are subject unto them.