[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 252 | Special Feature | Pisgah— First Prize Poem Ina | J. Hobson]
[Pisgah— First Prize Poem Ina J. Hobson]

Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, a third-time winner in the poetry contest, was born and grew up in Mt. Pleasant, Utah. Her father was John K. Madsen, a rancher famous in the Rambouillet sheep business. She served as a missionary in California, and has held many executive and teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. She is an honorary Golden Gleaner and served six years as president of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society. She is a former member of the General Board of Relief Society. She is a talented musician and devoted genealogist. Her husband is W. C. Olsen, and there are three children: John K. M. Olsen, Billye O. Jenkins, Carlyle O. Morris, and fifteen grandchildren. Sister Olsen believes that contests are stimulating and challenging. 'Writers do well to avail themselves of the opportunities offered by competition. I am writing and studying writing techniques, after a two-year pause to edit a large family book. I have found help through creative writing classes and organizations. I hold membership in the Utah State Poetry Society, and serve as its corresponding secretary. I am a member of Penwomen, and of Sonneteers. The first writing group with which I affiliated was the League of Utah Writers." 255 @ You wonder why Uncle Eli Mallory's younger children call me Aunt Emma, and yet I speak of his older children as my cousins? And how Uncle Eli can be Daddy's brother-in-law, and mine, even though he's our uncle? Well, it does sound like a complicated situation. It all grew out of a comical adventure, which might be called a horse and buggy romance. The summer I was eighteen Father sold his wheat farm out north of the temple and bought the fruit farm over in the valley below Verona, to return to his boyhood community. I certainly didn't want to move; two young men were showing me a good time that summer. Ben played both guitar and mandolin, and when we had group singing I could make the old parlor organ sound pretty lively. Henry, a brilliant college student, owned a new single buggy in which we could ride, just the two of us. Or another couple could go along, if the girl sat on the fellow's lap. Father didn't approve of either situation, but times like the afternoon of the circus or the Fourth of July, he did let me go. Father disapproved of the occasional drinks Henry took with the fellows, and so did I. But he worried, too, because Ben didn't. Have a steady job.