[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 292 | Special Feature | Research, Education, Service The Arr)erican | Cancer Society]
[Research, Education, Service The Arr)erican Cancer Society]

Black Satin
and Love

Ada Stonely Yates

■ The day was warm and sultry. I was sitting in my bedroom, tired, angry, and frustrated. All day I had worked so hard—sweeping, dusting, cooking, preparing for the visit of my two daughters and grandchildren. My eighty-year-old father had followed my every step, like a little child. He had lived with me since my dear husband, John, had passed away. He had spilled milk on my clean rug, tracked mud on my polished floor. "He never wipes his feet," I had fumed. He turned on the TV so loud that my ears rang, and the last straw—he answered the telephone and said, "She is too busy to talk now!"

I can't stand any more of this, I thought. He must live somewhere else. I will tell him so . . . after I rest.

Drowsing, half sleeping, my thoughts went back many years. My first red-haired baby girl was three weeks old. She was a colicky baby, crying almost constantly. John and I got very little sleep; the birth took all of our savings, and none of my dresses fit! I had taken my little one in my arms in the rocking chair and we both had wept together.

A little knock had come at the door and in had walked Father. He looked at the weeping twosome, said not a word, telephoned Mother to babysit, took me to the best store in town and said, "Pick out a dress—and don't look at the price!"

There it was—the perfect dress! Black satin, a little high collar, piped in red, and a circular skirt that swung as I circled it in delight. It was mine!

Returning home, I cradled my little one, and she, sensing my happiness, actually slept! And from that day on she was a happier baby. I proudly wore my new dress when she was blessed.

I went to Father—napping in front of the blaring TV and kissed him. "What was that for!" he asked. "For a black satin dress," I answered. He didn't remember, but I'll never forget. Hundreds of dresses I have worn since that day long ago. I don't remember their style or color, but I'll never forget a kind father who had enough intuition to know what would make a young wife and mother happy.

He can live with me as long as he wishes. Thank you my father for all your many acts of kindness to your impatient daughter, and, especially, for the black satin dress, piped in red, with the swirling skirt.

284
