[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 279 | General Feature | Editorial— Truth Abideth Forever Marianne | C. Sharp]
[Editorial— Truth Abideth Forever Marianne C. Sharp]

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly For a woman who searches out truth in inspired writings and spoken words, her way will be lighted and her burdens become lightened. Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucile P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aleine M. Youns Alice L. Wilkinson Marjorie CPingree Reba C. Aldous Alberta H. Christensen irene W. Buehner Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Mildred B. Eyring irene C. Lloyd Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Elien N. Barnes Mayola R. Miltenberger Winniefred S. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Myrtle R. Olson ——— 277 The American Cancer Society Inc.

Research MH Education MH Service There will be 600,000 new cases of cancer in the United States this year, and half of them can be cured by early diagnosis and proper treatment. According to the American Cancer Society, only about 200,000 of these will be saved. To help more—give more. Help yourself with a check-up and help others with a check. The Society needs the help of all Americans in its continuing war against cancer. It has three great shining swords to fight cancer: RESEARCH * EDUCATION * SERVICE.* New drugs have brought added months and years to leukemia patients. Cancer of the colon and rectum is the most frequent internal cancer among both men and women in the United States. Nearly three out of four patients might be saved from this cancer with early diagnosis and proper treatment. Safeguards against this type of cancer are an annual ''procto'' examination, especially for people over forty, and a knowledge of cancer's warning signals. In America 25,000 people have lost their voices to larynx cancer, and must breathe through a permanent opening in the throat. Early detection could have prevented much of this tragedy. The Pap test can detect uterine cancer when it is practically 100 per cent curable. A Pap test is a lifesaver. Research has helped raise the cancer survival rate from one in five thirty years ago to the present rate of one in three.