[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 270 | Special Feature | Mama and the Teddy Bear— Second Prize Story Lael | J. Littke]
[Mama and the Teddy Bear— Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke]

Papa and Linda, Cissie and I laughed, and Mama joined in, but I wondered why there were tears in her eyes. Lael J. Littke, Pasadena, California, winner of the second prize in the short story contest, expresses appreciation for the Relief Society literary contests: ''Thank you again for awarding this honor to me and thank you for sponsoring the annual literary contests which motivate and encourage the women writers of the Church. Although I began writing in my early teens, I didn't sell anything until seven years ago when I sold a story to The Relief Society Magazine, a dear friend indeed. Since then I have sold additional stories to the Magazine and to The Improvement Era, American Girl Magazine, and other publications. Last year I sold my first children's book to Western Publishing Company. Last year, also, my first full-length musical drama ''Blossoms in the Wilderness,'' with music by Gillian Cochrane, was performed by the East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, on whose board I served as cultural refinement class leader until we moved to Pasadena. My other literary activities include membership in the California Writers Guild, and a writing class at Pasadena City College, taught by our own Helen Hinckley Jones (who appears regularly in The Relief Society Magazine), one of the finest teachers I have ever known. "My family encourages me in my writing. Daughter Lori is now eight years old and my most devoted fan. My husband George, who teaches at California State College, Los Angeles, is my best and most respected critic.'' EASTER Shall my Maker glorify plain and hill, With the lilies of yesteryear, Shall the wind and the wave obey his will, That the harvest shall reappear? Shall the Easter miracle wake the sod In the hush of the holy dawn, And shall I who am imaged after God, Through the ages of time sleep on? Nay, I who have walked and talked with him 'In his gardens at eventide, Shall hearken his voice in the twilight dim, When he calls at the Great Divide. And I shall adore at his throne above, When the portals ajar swing wide, To behold the miracle of his love, When he calls me at Eastertide. —Bertha A. Kleinman 269 m@ This story is not about a woman. It is about a man—me, Ross Anderson—and how I— well, came to "hate the bomb and learn to love people." Speaking as a scientist I must say that it is almost impossible to say at just what point an action begins or ends. So many causes precede, and who knows how many results follow. It may be, therefore, as good a place as any to begin my story at the close of my last day as Assistant Director of Crissin Enterprises, in the Management and Marketing Division. The front door of our home closed behind me, and my wife appeared in the front hall almost simultaneously, as she had done nearly every working. Day for years. "Hello, dear,' Marion's usual bright greeting and kiss went unheeded today. Loose wrappings fell away from the bundle I plunked down on the hall table. "Look at that," I said bitterly, disgustedly. Marion moved the _ tissue paper and picked up the silver pitcher, running her fingers along the beaded edges. She turned the pitcher and, seeing the inscription, spoke the words aloud as she read: "Jo Ross Anderson —1954-1968—With Best Wishes —From his friends in the office." "Isn't it beautiful?" she purred in admiration, completely missing my implication. "It will be just lovely with the tray the children gave us for our anniversary, won't it? Did they have a farewell party for you, too? Oh, Ross, how thoughtful this is." She held the pitcher out in 270 THIRD PRIZE STORY TAI SILVER. PITCHER Grace M. Pratt both her hands, turning it and stroking its shining curves. Then, setting it down, she turned to give me another swift kiss, saying, "They're going to miss you down there, Mr. Anderson." She was apparently oblivious to the fact that I had not added a word to our conversation after my single statement, and that I was stiff and unresponsive in her embrace. I was disappointed in Marion. She is not an unfeeling person; quite the contrary. Usually, she is aware of, and in tune with, my too quick changes of mood. Muttering something about packing my equipment I jerked away and nearly fell over one of the packing crates. I muttered something else then and gave it a kick as I went by. Marion went off to the kitchen. If she didn't remember I had promised to help her take down the things from the high kitchen cupboards, I was not going to mention it now, either. At dinner Marion chatted on about the newspapers and milk, bills paid and yet to pay, and what time the movers were coming. I hardly heard any of it. My whole being was still seething with the let-down of being beaten out of the directorship of Crissin by that glad-hander, Phil Archer. I wondered vaguely how Marion could take it so calmly. She must know it had been my dream, and, yes, my expectation, one day to have a go at running the company my own way. Besides, I knew she and the children loved this town, this house. They had grown up here; this was their home town. I told myself Phil Archer had most likely been underhanded, getting in ahead of me. He always played up to the board members, was on first names basis with some of them. And he'd been farsighted enough, I told myself, viciously, to marry the founder's daughter. True, the old man had sold his interests years before that, but even so—I went on until I began to be ashamed The Silver Pitcher of myself and that only added to my fury and self-pity. Getting back again into a lab turned out to be a joy I had almost forgotten. Under normal circumstances I would have lost myself in the work I was doing, developing new products, improving old ones. But I fed my bitterness, instead. One day, at the end of our first year at the lab, I walked home slowly, turning over in my mind things that had come up in the meetings we had been having with a company team visiting us that week—and with things that had not come up, too. The team's show of confidence in my direction of the lab didn't quite cover an undercurrent of questioning. Turning into our driveway I paused, as I often did, to enjoy and appraise the lawns and front garden. The thought came to me, anyway, here's one area of unqualified improvement and progress. It startled me, that thought. It was a tacit admission that, as Director of Crissin Laboratories, I had not lived up to expectations—my own or the company's. My hand reached out to touch a last, late rose, my eyes wandered over dazzles of chrysanthemums and other autumn flowers, presided over by lilac, willow, olive trees, all in perfect health and order, pruned and clipped precisely. My garden displayed a year's work and devotion— devotion? Or escape? Had the inquiring mind really spent itself on this perfection? "Admit it, Ross," I growled to myself, "you never did enjoy gardening." Was the garden just an excuse, then? The visitors 

271 April 1969

 at the lab—the ones who knew me—flatly disbelieved I had not used the courtesy golf club membership presented on my arrival in this town. And I had to admit there had been a tone of surprise and criticism on my absence of any work in community service organizations. "I suppose you've taken on a lot of your Church work," someone _ had commented and I had grunted what I hoped was an unintelligible negative. Like the chrysanthemums tumbling out of their bounds onto the lawns, the whole of the past year flooded through my mind in a flash-back of incriminating incidents: my crisp, curt manner with the trainees, outbursts of temper over mistakes, my unapproachableness as the director and neglect of personnel problems. I squirmed inside, recollecting my brusque excuses in response to social invitations, and then the latest rudeness, assigning a junior to conduct the visiting team this past week on the flimsy excuse of having urgent experiments I couldn't leave. The front door of the now familiar home closed behind me and Marion appeared to greet me. I thought she was going to help me take off my coat, but instead her arms slid around me in a tight hug as she said, "Hello, Dear." Then she kissed me twice in succession and said, "How's my handsome husband today?" I got the message and responded with the next step in this private ritual we had, to sort of warn each other of rough sailing ahead. I gave her back her kisses and said, "Madam, your husband is quite well and hopes 272 you are the same." Then, as I slid my coat over the hanger she held, I went on to the next cue: "Have a good day? What's new?" "Oh, nothing much," she replied, too casually. "After Relief Society I stayed in town to shop." "Buy anything for me, Mummy?" I mimicked the children. "Not this time, darling, but I will next time if you're a good boy," she rattled off automatically. Then, slowly, "Actually, I didn't get much shopping done. I had lunch at the Crescent and didn't leave for hours, I guess." My mind reacted sharply to that and I said, hesitantly, "You had lunch at the Crescent Motel dining room and you are telling me you saw Phil Archer there?" "No, Dear, Pat Archer. You'd forgotten to mention she and Phil were in town, but I passed it off all right, I think." "Phil didn't tell me Pat was with him," I said, lamely, not adding that I had avoided any personal talk with Phil. "I guess if some of the wives came I ought to have them, and you, invited to the luncheon tomorrow." I was ashamed and embarrassed at my lack of hospitality to my old friend, now that it came to light. "Well, it's all right, Ross. They're leaving tomorrow night, of course, but, fortunately they are free tonight. They're coming to dinner." "Oh, that's fine," I managed. "What time will they be here?" "Not till a little after seven. They have a distant relative out beyond here a few miles and haven't been able to get a visit until today," Marion replied, trying, I could see, to watch me unobtrusively. "They'll go out there as soon as Phil gets through at the lab and come back here after their visit. You've time to relax with your paper for awhile." "All right," I said, heavily. "Call me if there's anything I can do to help you." "Thanks, all under control." She smiled, and went off to shower and dress. It was a lucky thing the Archers had that relative to visit. If they had come any earlier we never could have made it til] dinnertime. As it was, Pat and Marion carried the conversation, chattering away at woman talk. They always did get on well. After a bit there was a silence and Pat said, "Imagine these two old things being together and not talking shop. We used to never get them to stop." Marion jumped up and said, "I think we can eat now. Ross,! Will you put some records on? Pat, Phil, just down the hall if you want to freshen up." Marion likes a separate dining room. She comes of an old world family that looks on eating as a Special event requiring good food in the right setting. And she loves having guests for meals, a thing she had pretty much had to forego lately. As usual, the dining room was a picture of warmth and homeyness. Soft light glowed from wall sconces and candles, gleaming over the silver, china, and glassware on the perfectly set table centered with a low bowl of our finest mums. The Silver Pitcher You can imagine, then, my surprise and chagrin when Marion Served, as the main course, not one of her exotic specialties, but a plain, everyday thing like pot roast. True, pot roast as only Marion cooks it, richly brown and fragrant with herbs, surrounded by mounds of steaming vegetables in almost natural color; pearly onions, pan browned potatoes, silvery chunks of cabbage, accents of orange and green carrots and peas. But in my present state of mind I could only wonder if she were deliberately, Phil's exclamation cut into my thoughts. "Marion, you doll, you absolute darling," he carolled, "think of her remembering old Phil's weakness. Isn't she marvelous, Pat?" He got up from his chair and Came around the table. Taking the platter from her, he set it ceremoniously in place on the table and gallantly held her chair. "I've often said," Pat laughed, "that it's a good thing Phil met 

273 April 1969

 me before he met Marion's pot roast. I wouldn't have had a chance." "Ah, but I did meet the pot roast first, my love, only Ross here was ahead of me then, too. Remember that time, Ross? My first day at Crissin, young man on his first real job, scared, lonely, so you took me home to supper. I was so sick of bachelor cooking—and so broke—I didn't care what the guy's wife would think. But I will never forget the aroma as that pot roast was served—ah, heavenly. What a feast I had." He sat back smiling at the memory and then went on, "What is more, I can recall every detail of the four—no, five—times I have enjoyed Marion's pot roast since." The restraint of the evening vanished as Phil accompanied our eating with his hilarious way of telling a story. We heard every detail, all right, and what had led up to, away from, and from side to side of those particular events. This was more like the breezy Phil Archer of old, taking over every occasion in his own jovial way. And yet I had this feeling he was like a 274 boy let out for recess, whooping and hollering as much as he could before he'd have to go inside again. We ate up all the hot rolls and Marion and I pushed back our chairs at the same time to get more. She took the basket, saying to me, "Would you refill the glasses while I get the rolls? There's ice water ready in the frig." I opened the refrigerator and reached in for—there was the silver pitcher, filled with water, ready for use. I wasn't prepared for that. Once again I wondered at Marion's choice. If she hadn't been right there, I could have pretended to make a mistake and use our old glass pitcher. I had to use the silver pitcher, but I practically covered it with a napkin to catch drips. Then I filled Pat's glass under cover of conversation. But when I reached past Phil's shoulder he noticed the pitcher at once. "The silver pitcher," he said, musingly, taking it from my hand, "the farewell gift to Mr. Ross Anderson." An odd, waiting silence fell as he ran his finger along the lettering, reading it aloud as Marion had that first day. The room was stifling with a sudden kind of apprehension I was aware the rest of us felt. We waited for what was to come. There was something in Phil's tone that made you know a dam _ was about to burst. "Green with envy," Phil murmured to himself, then, "did you know that, old friend? That I was green with envy of you that day? Ross Anderson, the successful man the one expected to take over, well-liked, established. I knew I could never reach your heights. And then," he went on as if something forced it out of him, "to have you get the post I wanted. I guess I had some kind of a kid dream of being the mysterious, fascinating scientist, hovering over bubbling retorts, bringing forth earth-shaking discoveries and life-saving inventions. Don't laugh. I realized I wasn't the type after I got into the swing of the marketing end of it. I've loved that. It's where I belong, where I'm pretty darn good or could be.... Somehow, lately I've had the feeling the board is taking a long hard look at my division. I was hoping we would find something in this lab tour... Something new to give us a lift. I have some ideas I've been saving for just the right product, the right time if only." His voice just trailed off. I glanced uneasily at Marion, standing there with the basket of rolls cooling in her hand. On her lips and in her eyes was a small smile that husbands see sometimes, an asking-telling-waiting look. In that glance I saw that she had known all along how I'd The Silver Pitcher felt about the job and that Pat had told her about Phil. I felt as if my skin had shrunk until I was being constricted by the small man I had become. I wanted to get out of that little man. He was making me old and sick. I clasped my hand over Phil's on the handle of the silver pitcher and gently lifted it away to fill his glass. I was glad, in a way, to have them see my hand was a bit shaky. "Can you get down to the lab early tomorrow morning, Phil?" I asked. "I've been working on something that might be what you are looking for. With both of us putting our great brains to work on it, we ought to come up with something pretty good." I saw the look that flashed between Pat and Marion. "And after the luncheon," I went on, "let's you and I knock off work, get out of the lab, and find out what kind of golf course they have in this town." The little man split open and I stepped out, finding the world interesting and full of promise, after all. The look I saw then in Marion's eyes was for myself alone. Grace Madsen Pratt, Merced, California, winner of the third prize in the story contest, is an author new to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. By way of introduction, she writes: "My literary history is less fact than fancy. My father was known as a great campfire storyteller, and my mother, Abbie R. Madsen, wrote reams of poems, many of them published in The Relief Society Magazine. Mother urged me to write, and I jotted down bits and pieces as our six children grew up. I really learned the anatomy of a story in a class under a Mrs.