[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 278 | Special Feature | The Silver Pitcher-Third Prize Story Grace | M. Pratt]
White, in Perth, Australia, and have written three stories: ''The Silver Pitcher,'' ''The Little White Birds of Olotele,'' for The Children's Friend, and one other children's story, now out looking for a publisher. "One day I was casting about for a story idea, and while polishing a silver pitcher, inscribed to our landlord, my mind began to work on the idea of the inscription and the pitcher. The day before we moved from Melbourne, I worked over and retyped my story." 275 EDITORIAL, Truth Abidetp Fo rever @ As one reads a ontemplates the 4 Prophet Whether € lived in anted luvian times or is Ving today, the Ords of UNSeI exhortation, an nlightenment have a Constant application for People iVing in all dispensations Customs 4Nd livin Nditions hange, but the laws 80vernin 800d and Vil, Sorr JOY, remaj Constant How differe t were th Primitive SUrrounding f the Isra lites When the Ten Com dmen Were s Oken, INcludin the MMandment 'Honour thy f ther Nd thy Mother __;, fro thos Conditions Sur rounding the People jn the days of Pa when Wrote, "But if an Provide not for hi Own, and SP€cially for those of h n house, he ath enied ¢ faith, d Orse th an infideI ] living Custo and CONdition yet stilI the law Ind a Re Ppeasement for a ading the Words of » and Courage. As e, Moreover, She l es to ] trial to her. She searched the scriptures but did not find a comparable situation to give her 4 satisfying answer tO guide oF comfort her. Shortly thereafter she was standing among some Church \eaders waiting to 8° into a meeting. During the conversation, one leader, an apostle, happened to relate an experience and its outcome, which was the answet to this mother's silent, anguished question. This truth came not from the printed page of truth but from the lips of a living prophet. "Search and ye shall find." Her anguish was given 4a beacon of hope. Truth remains constant, as likewise do the basic characteristics of man. The yearning of Hannah for a child Is echoed in the hearts of married women today. The sword which pierced the soul of Mary must have brought a presagement of foreboding to her throughout the life of her Son, which ts mirrored In the hearts of mothers today Joy comes to women who seek sacred words of truth to uplift, comfort, and inspire them, words that encompass experiences of mankind from the beginning—words of truth that never change. "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.