[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 02b | Category: Article | Title: School Lunches | Author: Ethel Melville ]

Foods Children Should Have and Lunch Basket Suggestions.
If children are to be strong and healthy and do good work
in school, they must be properly fed. Too many of them are eating
unwholesome food at noon and thereby depriving their bodies
of the nourishment necessary for energy and growth. Luncheon
for school children, from the standpoint of health, is no more
important than any other meal of the day, but it is more difficult
to k eep up to the standard of wholesomeness and cleanliness.
Growing children have special needs in the way of food.
Even when they always eat at home, it is no easy matter to see
that they are properly fed, and when they eat the mid-day meal
at school, the difficulty is far greater. This is not because wholesomeness
and cleanliness are more important in this meal than
in any other, but because they are harder to secure.
In order that children may be strong and well, their food
must first provide the materials for building and repairing the
body ; i t must furnish energy or fuel for the work of the muscles ;
and it must serve to regulate the intricate chemical changes on
which health and growth depend.
Vegetables and fruits are particularly valuable as sources of
the necessary mineral matters and vitamines, the lack of which
may lead to under-development and to such diseases as rickets
and scurvy. Many vegetables and fruits also tend to prevent constipation.
Cereals may be depended upon for a large part of
the fuel that every active child needs. Sugar also has a useful
place in the child's diet as a fuel and as a flavoring. For a child
eight to ten years old an allowance of two ounces (four level
tablespoon fulls) of sugar a day to be used in cooking or eaten
in other ways is not too much. The point to remember about
sugar and sweets in a child's diet is that they should be served
chiefly at the end of the meal. If eaten between meals or at the
beginning of a meal they take away the appetite for more important
foods.
Milk is regarded as a necessity in the diet of every normal
child, because it supplies, in an easily digestible form, the necessary
tissue-building material, and is a good combination of vitamines,
lime, and protein. A quart of milk a day, served partly
as a beverage and partly in other ways, is not too much for a
child. Wherever possible the child should be permitted to carry a small bottle of milk to school to drink at recess. He will like
this, especially if he can drink it with a straw. This will not
take away his appetite for regular meals and it will tide him over
until dinner time. Eggs are a good supplement to milk, in that
they supply iron, in which milk is lacking.
In the light of present knowledge of the requirements of the
human body in childhood, one of the worst diets that could be
devised would be made up chiefly of bread and sweets. There is
likely to be no danger, however, if the child has each day at least
a pint and a half of milk — a quart is better — a potato, an orange,
some green vegetable, and an ounce of butter.
If the children can come home at noon, conditions may be
much more favorable for a wholesome lunch. There is no reason
why the ordinary family dinner cannot be so prepared that it is
entirely suitable for school children. The usual first course of
meat and vegetables, if simply cooked and not highly seasoned,
contains nothing, except the meat, that cannot be given to children,
and for them, milk or eggs can be easily substituted for
meat. Suitable desserts are fruit, fresh or cooked, with cake,
custards and custard puddings, gelatine dishes, cereal puddings,
simple ice cream, water ices, junket and blanc-mange.
If the time for the noon meal is limited, it should be served
promptly and in such a way that there are no delays. If this is
done, an otherwise hurried meal may be changed into one at
which there is plenty of time for eating and for attention to good
table manners. The meat, for instance, may be sliced before it
is brought to the table, and the desserts may be served in cups or
individual portions.
The basket lunch must usually be prepared at a time when the
housekeeper is very busy. In places where there are shops near
the school, therefore, children are sometimes given money with
which to buy food at noon. They like this, of course, for it is a
pleasure to make their own selections and they are glad to be
relieved of carrying baskets. If they could choose wisely, there
would be no objection to this plan. However, it is found that
the money is often spent for dirty or otherwise unwholesome
foods. "Hot dogs," cakes, and candy; or, at best, only starchy
foods are likely to make up the bill-of-fare, and thus the good
effects of careful feeding at home are likely to be overcome. It
is much better in this case that the children should bring their
lunches from home.
The basket lunch is harder to plan and also to prepare than
the lunch at home. It is not easy to keep food clean and attractive
when it must be packed and carried in a lunch box. There
are many foods that cannot be included in it, either because they
are not good cold or because they cannot be conveniently packed or carried. Therefore careful planning is necessary to prevent
sameness, and extra care is needed in the preparation of foods .
that must be packed and kept for several hours before being
eaten.
Whatever box is chosen it should be of a kind that can be
frequently cleansed and scalded. This is necessary to keep it
clean and to kill the bacteria that collect in the seams and crevices
of a container and cause foods to spoil or deteriorate in flavor.
For this reason simple containers are best. Baskets or metal
boxes and pails can be washed or scalded.
Cleanliness is a factor that must not be overlooked. Children
should be taught to wash their hands regularly before eating.
Every precaution should be taken to keep the foods in the
lunch box clean and in good condition. With the coming of
spring and dusty weather, the lunch should be wrapped particularly
well. Fruits and vegetables served raw should be thoroughly
washed. Paper napkins or the somewhat heavier paper
towels of much the same size, and paraffin papers are very useful
for packing lunches and may now be obtained at a low price.
An extra napkin, either of paper or of cloth, should be put in
the basket, to be spread over the school desk when the lunch is
eaten indoors. Napkins that are easy to wash and require no
ironing can be made of cotton crepe at a cost of a very few cents
each. The crepe may be bought by the yard, cut into squares,
and fringed.
In packing the lunch basket, sandwiches, cookies, and other
foods should be wrapped in neat separate parcels, and the things
less likely to crush should be put at the bottom. Paper cups and
cartons, jelly tumblers with covers, such as those in which foods
are sold, can all be used for packing jellies, jams, honey, sliced
raw fruits, stewed fruits, custards, cottage cheese, and other half
solid foods. Thermos bottles are very desirable as they enable
children to carry hot soup, milk, and other liquid foods for lunch.
Sandwiches are often the most substantial part of the school
lunch and can be made appetizing and wholesome only from good
bread. For children who do not care for bread, sometimes as
simple a change as baking the bread in a new form, a twist, for
example, or cutting bread and butter in a fancy shape with a
cooky cutter, will increase a child's relish for it. So, too, will a
change of flavor, obtained by adding a few raisins, fried currants,
or nut meats.
In hot weather the use of soft, moist foods in which moulds
and bacteria are most likely to grow rapidly should be avoided.
Although chopped meat moistened with a dressing makes a good
sandwich filling, such foods are less desirable in hot weather than
slices of meat, peanut butter, and other foods le^s likely to spoil, Hard-cooked egg- yolks, which, unlike hard-cooked whites, are not
considered difficult to digest, make good filling for sandwiches.
Sandwiches made from whole-wheat bread, lettuce, and egg yolks,
seasoned with lemon juice and salt are palatable and rich in iron
and vitamines.
At all times the children's lunches should include as much
fresh fruit as possible. During the spring and summer apricots,
cherries, strawberries, peaches, pears, and plums are as a rule
easily obtained. When these are not on the market, oranges, figs,
dates, apples, and dried fruits can usually be purchased. Slices
of canned pineapple may also be wrapped in paraffin paper with
the lunch.
The following bills of fare for basket lunches may help in
deciding what is satisfactory. Many others equally good will
suggest themselves:
1. Crisp roll, hollowed out and filled with chopped meat or fish,
moistened and seasoned, or mixed with salad dressing; apricots, or a
mixture of sliced fruits; cake.
2. Lettuce or celery sandwiches ; cup custard ; berries.
3. Cottage-cheese sandwiches, or a pot of cream cheese with bread
and butter sandwiches; peanut sandwiches; fruit; cake.
4. Hard-cooked eggs ; baking powder biscuits ; celery or radishes ;
brown sugar or maple sugar sandwiches.
5. Bottle of milk; thin corn bread and butter; dates; apple.
6. Thermos bottle of hot soup; raisin or nut bread with butter;
cheese; orange; jelly roll.
7. Baked bean and lettuce sandwiches ; apple sauce ; sweet chocolate.
8. Sandwiches with sliced tender meat for filling ; " baked apple ;
ccokies.
9. Slices of meat loaf or bean loaf ; sandwiches ; stewed fruit; small
frosted cake.
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE
A copy of the catalogue of the Brigham Young University
for the year 1924-1925 has reached our office. It indicates expansion
in t he courses of the institution and, an increase in the
quality and number of the faculty. Since the catalogue came
from the press announcement has been made of an appropriation
by the Church of $125,000 for the erection of a library building.
This building will furnish the needed room for the; expansion of
the library, and free other space necessary for class room expansion;
so that there is indication of growth in the institution,
from a number of very important angles.