[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Mountains Shall be Laid Low | Author: Thomas L. Martin ]

Vol. XI. SEPTEMBER, 1924 No. 9 The Mountains Shall be Laid Low Thomas L. Martin, Prof. Of Agronomy B. Y, U. Prova, Utah "Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear; and it was so. "And God called the dry land earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he seas; and God saw that it was good. "And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth; and it was so." The quotation above is a part of the interesting account of the creation of the earth. Rocks that were exposed, after the waters had been gathered into one place, were rapidly acted upon by nature's elements and some of them were broken down into soil. In the bed thus prepared the seeds sprouted and came forth as grass, herbs and fruits, each yielding after its kind. The forces that were used at that time to produce soil from - the rocks, have been discovered by man in his efforts to subdue nature. A study of these forces is an effort on the part of man to find out how God did, and is continually doing, this great work. There are few things more fascinating than a study of nature. Nearly every person who delves into these problems becomes impressed with the feeling that there is ever present in the earth, a higher source, a power that gives comfort to man in this practical work, and lifts him up into a sphere that makes him feel that life. Is really worth while. It gives him vision: "The practical man knows a tree is a tree, He figures its height and its girth, How many board feet it would yield to the saw, And just what the boards would be worth. And yet, to the man who has vision, it stands As a miracle sprung from the sod, A green living glory that ever proclaims The Spirit and purpose of God. "The practical man sees a practical world And runs it in practical strife, 'He's safe, and he's sane as an everyday guide; But still, every once in awhile, 440. | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Though practical people make living run smooth, Let's yield to the magical thrall Of dreamers who see beautiful visions supply The reason for living at all." ?Berton Brayley in Leslies. We look upon the mountains all about us; they appear to be firm and everlasting hills, We are thrilled as we gaze at Mount Timpanogos. We feel that it is a tower of strength and we wonder what force is powerful enough to fulfill the prediction made by the prophet Isaiah that "every vallev shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low." On the borders of the streams, on the slopes, and on the mountain tops, if we look closely we can see the work of the master forces of nature slowly but surely carving down the massive, rocky heights. Cracks develop in the rocks; into these openings tiny rootlets force their entrance, and by their pressure gradually break assunder the most resistant crag. Masses of stone contain, on their surface, lower forms of plant life such as mosses, or even such 442. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by scientists to prove that carbon dioxide is given off when one exhales. Plants decay, and, in the process, set free much carbon dioxide; the burning of coal and wood results in the liberation of carbon dioxide. Most all decaying or breaking down processes, such as that done by the yeast plant when it "works" or breaks down the sugar or potatoes that have been added, or that done by the human body in changing food into work, is really a form of slow burning?so slow that it does not give a flame but gives off carbon dioxide the same as the flaming fire does.. The total amount of carbon dioxide in the air is considerable. For every ten thousand ounces of air there is found, on the average, six ounces of carbon dioxide. This gas unites with water, and forms a weak acid known as carbonic acid. The acid comes in contact with limestone, and produces a more soluble limestone, such as is readily: dissolved by water. Granite rocks contain a number of potash-bearing minerals. Mica, or what is commonly called isinglass, is one of these potash minerals found in the majority of granite rocks. Carbon dioxide and water unite with the mica potash,. And dissolve it after which the rock becomes full of holes and finally curmbles to pieces. You may have noticed isinglass get very dull, so dull that it is difficult to see through it. The reason for this is usually that the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere has united with some of the chemical elements and is gradually decomposing it. This process which is known as carbonation sounds simple and may not be thought to be very effective but the most resistant rocks known, fall to pieces under its action. The rocks are thus made porous and are weakened until they are susceptible to other influences of decay and are readily broken down. Hydration Hydration is a second force that is powerful in causing rock to decay. Many of us have poured water on quicklime, and found that the lime was changed to a mass with different qualities. This new material is known as water-slaked lime and is considerably more bulky and soluble than the original quicklime. Water has been taken in by the lime the same as it is by flour but the water absorbed by the lime forms a chemical combination which is very soluble, whereas the water absorbed by flour may cause no chemical change. Water unites with many rock materials to form new chemical compounds in this way. Granites have been known to fall to pieces in a few days after quarrying due to this process of MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 443 hydration or water union. Flour may become more compact after wetting, but in this hydration process in rocks there may be an increase to almost twice the former size because the new chemical substance formed is more bulky than the original. In flour, on the other hand, the water merely moistens the sticky substance in the flour and makes it stick together more closely. Pikes Peak, in Colorado, is made up largely of granite. Some of the minerals contained in this granite are very sus-. Ceptible to water, and as a result the Peak is weathering away in the manner described above. Oxidation The air we breathe is made up of about three-fourths nitrogen, almost one-fourth oxygen, and a relatively small amount of corbon dioxide. The oxygen is very active in breaking down rocks. Whenever oxygen unites with a substance the process is known as oxidation or, in other words, "burning". When you light a match the burning of the wood is merely a union of the wood with the oxygen of the air accompanied by a flame. The substance at the tip of the match has what is known as a low kindling temperature. The kind-- ling temperature is the temperature at which the oxygen of the air will unite with the substance. The kindling temperature of the tip of the match is considerably lower than that of the wood. A slight friction against anything hard will make the sulphur or whatever it happens to be, unite with oxygen of air and burn. This burning raises the temperature quickly to the kindling temperature of. Wood, and soon a clear, yellow flame appears as evidence that the oxygen is uniting with the wood and burning or oxidizing it. All oxidation, however, is not accompanied by flame. Iron, when exposed to. Airand water, quickly develops a reddish color due to iron rust. This iron rust is oxidized or "burned" iron. The original iron has united with oxygen. Such rusted iron is much more soluble now than it was before, as you probably know from having a little iron rust discolor a whole batch of washing. Iron, after it has united with oxygen, has what we might term, partially decayed. There is much iron in the various rocks; not in masses of solid iron as we usually know it, but in numerous fine kernels throughout the rock. When these particles are exposed to the oxygen of the air, it is gradually changed to new rust compounds much more soluble and bulky than before. The rain water then dissolves these iron rust kernels and the rock crumbles to pieces because the holes where the iron was, leaves the rock nearly the same as grains of sand. The various yellow and red colors that you see on many rocks are evidences of iron oxidation processes at work breaking down the rocks. Solution Whenever a lump of sugar is placed in a glass of water it very quickly dissolves away, or goes into solution. Many \ of the elements of the rock go into solution in the same way. This process is responsible for much rock weathering or breaking to pieces. There are a number of gases in the air in very small amounts which, as mentioned above, when united MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 445 with water, form acids. Acids are very powerful agents in dissolving many rocks. You have all probably made soda water by taking a tumbler full of water, onehalf teaspooonful of baking soda, and finally a little tartaric acid or vinegar and mixing them together. If you have, you know that if you do not drink this quickly, it bubbles over the top and down to the floor. Nearly the same thing happens when this same gas (carbon dioxide) which makes the soda water bubble, is absorbed from the air by water and forms an acid which comes in contact with the rocks. Perhaps you have seen limerock bubble when some acid came in contact with it. This is going on all the time in nature. The rocks are thus dissolved, carried down the mountain side to the canyon and finally out into the valleys, there to furnish the waiting soil with additional plant. Foods. One experimenter stated that this process of solution is so powerful that no matter how solid a rock might be, it would take but 6,000,000 years to have water and carbon dioxide completely dissolve a rock away. Scientists claim that on every square mile of the Appalachian mountains in the eastern part of the United States, two hundred and seventy-five tons of limestone are removed every year to the ocean by the process of solution. In England 14314 tons of limerock goes into solution on every square mile annually and is taken into the sea. The average amount of material removed from the hills and mountains and taken into the low places, on every square mile of the entire earth in one year is fifty tons. In our own rocky mountains it is probably much greater than this. It is remarkable when one stops to consider, how powerful the agent of solution is in wearing down the rock, in gradually putting into actuality the exalting of the valleys and the laying low of the mountains and the hills. Effect of Temperature In the summer time our cement sidewalks do not always stay smooth and level as when first laid down. They swell in places and create quite an upheaval or hummock, as scientists call such humps, which, when we are inattentive to where we are walking, cause us to stumble. Oftentimes, when riding in our cars along the state highway; wherever the cement blocks have been joined, there is quite a rise, so much of one that it gives the car a considerable jolt, not any too comfortable for the occupants. You seldom notice this situation in the winter time. The reason for this is that the cement expands considerably when it is heated MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW ?? 447 of minerals. The minerals do not expand at the same rate when they are heated, neither do they contract at the same rate. One would expect then that a solid rock made up of different substances undergoing different degrees of swelling would gradually push each other out of each other's way and then loosen themselves from the cramped position and suddenly fall out of the big rock. This is what actually happens. The great granite pillars that we look upon as so firm and everlasting are slowly but surely crumbling to pieces by this force. We have differences in temperature from summer to winter of about 100 degrees. A piece of granite 100 feet in length when heated to summer heat will expand practically one inch from its winter length. Imagine a firm granite mountain whose surface is undergoing this expansion due to heat. Can it possibly remain solid under such environment? Not at all, it swells at the surface and gradually peels away. On some of the higher slopes of our mountains large flakes of rock of sizes almost to ten feet, are strewn all over the area. In certain parts of Africa, according to Livingston, the African explorer, rock temperatures vary in one day as much as 137 degrees Fahrenheit. The temperature falls so rapidly at nightfall as to throw off by the rock contraction, sharp angular masses in size up to 200 pounds in weight. Freezing and Thawing We generally fill our ice cream freezer about half or two thirds full of liquid material to be frozen into ice cream. After it is frozen we take the lid off, and lo! We find it filled. The liquid has expanded due to freezing. Our wooden barrels are sometimes filled with water during the summer time so they will not leak. We forget about them until the middle of winter, and we find that the ice that has formed has expanded to such an extent as to burst open the barrels. We fail to close our cellar windows in the fall of the year, and later in the winter time, we go down the cellar for a bottle of peaches and to our consternation, the fruit is frozen, the lids have been forced off by the pressure of the ice in the bottle, or the bottle has burst, due to the expansion of the liquid that has been changed to ice. Nature works in a similar fashion in breaking down our mountains. The heat and cold have developed numerous large cracks in our solid mountain of rock. The autumn rains have worked themselves into these cracks. Jack Frost visits the territory MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 449 The writer observed a large piece of quartzite about 12 feet wide, 10 feet deep and 8 feet thick, in the region of Aspen Grove behind Mount Timpanogos. There were cracks throughout the rock, very minute indeed, but such that it seemed almost impossible for plant life to get started. However, sticking out from the minute cracks throughout the whole rock were fairly good sized roots about 14 of an inch in thickness. They were attached to the roots that had grown in the cracks. We split some of the rocks open and to our astonishment, we found the cracks were filled with root systems, flattened to adjust themselves to their cramped environment. Pine trees are often seen growing out of the face of an apparently solid rock.. The tiny rootlets work their way into tiny crevices, find the food they need, grow and. Expand and furnish the plant with its necessities until it is firmly implanted in the solid rock as firmly and unconcerned as if it were growing in the most fertile soil. Rocks that have been buried in the soil are covered with rootlets attempting to obtain nourishment from them. There is scarcely a square inch of rock buried near the surface of soil that is not covered with roots. In the vicinity of these rootlets, acids and other decomposing agents accumulate and slowly break down the rocks. On the exposed cliffs many beautiful colors are seen. A close examination shows the colors to be due to little plant colonies known as lichens. Some men have said that if the Lord had forgotten to make these lichen plants, we could never have had any soil. Lichens have no true roots, but their contribution is made largely at their death by the carbon dioxide they contribute. They cling tenaciously to the bare rock, their appearance reminding one of a little smear of greenish paint. Peel off some of this plant material and it is seen that the surface of the rock is corroded and there are beginings of soil clustering amid a sort of root fibers beneath. Also some lime compounds, known as oxalate of lime are found. This lime generally comes from the rock and the oxalic acid, the acid of rhubarb and that used in removing iron and ink stains from clothing, comes from the plant as a by-product of its activity.: This oxalic acid corrodes some of the rock minerals. The progress made by these plants in rocks can be traced beyond the root fibers by changes in the color of the rock made by this acid. A rust color will be seen to have changed to a brick red. These lichens prepare the way for the ordinary mosses seen on the rocks in the canyon. The mosses of higher forms of plant life have well developed roots. Remove these moss plants from the side of the rocks and it will be found that the roots, half inch in length, are filled with small particles of rock about the size of soil particles. The dead lichens and mosses, mixed with the pieces of rock, together with soil that gradually gathers, develop and environment favorable to higher forms of plant life. If there are any cracks in the rocks, then the herbs, shrubs and brush send down their roots. Many of these roots are sent out reconnoitering to see if any particular part of the rock offers nourishment. If not successful, they die, if successful they start their work of destruction, and bring about astonishing results in the way of rock destruction. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW - 451 The Work of Bacteria We cannot in a discussion of this kind, leave out the work of bacteria. You are probably already familiar with the disease bacteria such as the ones causing typhoid fever. They are little organisms that cannot be seen with the naked eve, but yet so numerous that their combined activities make them a serious menace to all animal and plant life, and we shall now see that they also affect even the rocks. If these organisms were magnified by aid of the microscope, until they appeared 1000 times larger than they actually are, one would see them as little dots moving to and fro, something like polywogs in a stagnant pool. One writer calls our attention to the fact that should a man be magnified 1000 times he would appear as a man 6000 feet tall, and 1500 feet wide, or che size of atall mountain. There are often as many as 5,000,000 of bacteria in a single drop of milk, yet they can move around freely. A small amount of soil, one ounce of weight, will ordinarily contain about 200,000,000 of them. They are indeed unusually small, but they work upon the rocks, making soluble some of the elements found therein. They penetrate every little cleft or crevice, and slowly do their tiny bit. They are found in granite, limestone, sandstone, and volcanic rocks, on high mountain peaks, and on lower levels. In the peaks of the Alps in partially decomposed rock there are millions of them busily engaged tearing down the sides of the mountains, and aiding the forces of nature in their work of rock destruction. The depth to which the nature forces work on solid rock is very considerable. It is not all at the surface as at first appears. In Atlanta, Georgia, rocks have been found completely rotted 95 feet below the surface and partially decayed three hundred feet down. In Iron Mountain, Missouri, some of the rocks are found decayed from ten to eighty feet; at Chattanooga, Tennessee, some fifty to one hundred feet; coarse granite at Pikes Peak, Colo., to twenty or thirty, and in some places in Massachusetts to depths of two hundred to three hundred feet, Our own mountains are newer and probably not extensively rotted to great depths. We find in this deep rock decay, further evidence that these forces are very deceptive as to their power, and when investigated are found so great as to almost overwhelm the mind of man. The Work of Wind It might be thought that the above agents would about empty mother natures tool box of materials for destroying 452. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rocks, but not-so. She 'still has the wind, water, gravity, ice and snow to help complete the work. Particles are loosened by the above mentioned forces. The wind then picks them up and carries them into all parts of the world. A great geologist by the name of Chamberlain, says that every square mile of land surface contains particles of material brought there by the wind from every other square mile. In a darkened room, pierced by a keyhole of light, one may see in that beam of light millions of little particles darting hither and thither while suspended in the air. These little dust particles if examined under the microscope, would. Prove to be little particles of rock that have been worked loose from the mountain side and carried by the wind and left suspended in the air. We think of water as a wonderful transporter of sediment, but in the Mississippi basin we are told that the amount of material carried by the wind is one thousand times greater than that carried by the Mississippi river itself. The housewife in that locality needs to keep her duster busy, and she is a past master at her art if she keeps her house clean. Several months of every year, material is blown from the north-west shores of Africa to the Atlantic ocean, a swath 1600 miles wide, a distance of 300 to 1000 miles from the coast. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW ~? 453 In parts of Asia the dust carried by the wind so obscures the sun that even at midday one cannot see to read fine print without the aid of a lamp. Overwhelming of caravans of travelers by sand storms in the Desert of Sahara is a common occurence. The city of Nineveh, we are told, was founded two thousand years before Christ's birth; it was destroyed 1400 years later. One thousand years later the great Greek general, Xenophon, set out to look for the city, but it was so completely covered by sands that had been carried by the wind that it could not be found. The soils found in the central part of the United States, including Illinois and the surrounding states, were carried by the winds, according to the idea of our scientific men. The wind is a powerful agent. The particles it picks up become chisels which cut away -other rocks that lie in its path. Sharp ledges that stick out from the cliffs are often worn down by the chiseling action of the material carried by the wind. Work of Gravity ? Perhaps you have noted on the sides of the mountains, and at the foot of cliffs, large amounts of loose material that apparently have dropped from the rocks above. These have accumulated under the influence of gravity. If an airplane that is flying in the air should suddenly have its engine cease to work. It would fall with a crash. This sudden fall is due to a force that tends to puill all things toward the center of the earth. As the rock is broken loose from the parent rocks by the various forces, gravity pulls it down and then it accumulates at the base of the cliff on what we, geologically speaking, call a talus slop. This talus material gets filled with moisture, the water freezes, then the expansion of the ice lifts up the pieces of rock and as the ice melts, gravity pulls it down the slope. Sometimes the slope is too steep for the amount of material that rests thereon, and a large rock or some other force starts the material sliding, resulting in a landslide.. However, sooner, or later, this talus material finally gets to the bed of the canyon stream and from there it is carried to the valley below. A Work of Streams The Mississippi river carries to the ocean four hundred million tons of sediment each year, or one million tons per day. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAIDLOW 455 down in the valleys, there to furnish sustenance for the corn and potatoes waiting anxiously for food. A most interesting experience for any nature lover would be a visit to the bed of one of our canyon streams, there to see the various rocks held fast in the bottom of the stream and the marks of wear upon them made by the many rocks that have passed over. This is as powerful a factor as any force of nature in wearing the rocks gathered from the mountain ~ side. The mountains are on all sides; they appear as firm solid rocks. A close examination reveals the fact that none of the rocks is solid, and that they slowly are being worn down by the forces of nature. Our Utah valleys are filled with soil brought down by the mountain streams. The recent floods at Farmington and Willard, in Davis and Boxelder counties, furnish an excellent example of all phases of nature's work with water. To make a close study of all the forces of nature is very interesting. It impresses man with the dynamic nature of the earth, that change is a constant thing, and that man even with all his power is weak when he compares his powers with the mighty ones of nature. It impresses man with the idea that there is a Master Force back of all this, who evokes a reverential attitude on the part of the student of nature in such a way that he, indeed, becomes a better citizen in the community in which he lives. Above all it gives the student information regarding -some of the ways in which God created the earth, information that will be of use to him if he is ever to become "perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect."