[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 02a | Category: Article | Title: Another Centenary]

The approach of the 21st of September, 1924, marks the
visit of the angel Moroni a year after his first appearance to the
boy prophet, Joseph Smith. On the occasion of his first visit he
told Joseph that he would come each year and give him instructions.
This practice was to be followed until the plates were
delivered to him.
Any reference to the Book of Mormon is apt to bring to mind
a flood of memories and experiences in relation to the book. Last
year we published a group of testimonies growing out of contact
and familiarity with the book; this year we have in mind a
similar experience to those we related last year, which we shall
place in the editorial column.
Some two years ago we were engaged in purchasing books
from a man by the name of Otto Tooney. We found that he had
made a very large collection of "Mormon" books now out of
print; a collection so valuable that both the University of Chicago
and the University of California had offered to buy it. Because
these books were, in the main, old and rare, we fancied he
had been in the Church a good many years. We were fairly
startled when he told us that he knew nothing of the Latter-day
Saint faith, until 1907, and then followed this story:
Said he, "I was working with a young man who belonged to the 'Mormon' church. Being in an antagonistic state of mind,
I provoked an argument. I was determined to get the better
of my co-laborer, because I was satisfied in my own mind that
his faith was not a very worth while faith. During our discussion,
the young man quoted the Book of Mormon continuously. In
order to be able to refute what he said in relation to the Book and
its teacrings, I read it ; b ut, to employ an old adage, I came to scoff
and remained to pray. By the time I had finished reading the
Book, I was convinced in my soul that it was the word of God ;
consequently I relinquished all thought of returning to the place
of my birth in the state of Colorado, cast my lot with the Latterday
Saints and am numbered with that people.
"I am a living witness of the truth of Moroni's statement,
found in the tenth chapter and fourth paragraph : 'And when ye
shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask
God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are
not true ; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent,
having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you,
by the power of the Holy Ghost.' "
Elizabeth Claridge^McCune
Elizabeth Claridge McCune has gone to her reward. No
one who has ever known her has the slightest doubt of her integrity.
In t he innermost recesses* of her being was an abiding
testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the
love of this truth was the dominating note in her character. No
matter in what path, fortune led her, either sweet or bitter, she
carried within her soul the light of truth which was her guide.
She served on the M. I. A. and Relief Society General
Boards, and was intimately connected with the Genealogical work
of the Church. Many of us recall how eagerly the young women
of the Mutual Improvement Association listened to her soulstirring
testimony; and in her later years this same testimony was
a source of great support to the more mature women.
She traveled in many lands, and in these lands collected
treasures of art, rare in this western country, which treasures became
part of her home. Many times she has opened her lovely
mansion, imposing in its location and architecture, to those interested
in f urthering the work of the Lord.. Later she and her
husband bequeathed it to the Church, and today it is dedicated
to the culture and development of those who are lovers of the
divine art.
In the town where she passed her girlhood and youth were friends to whom she was devoted with all her heart. She has
found her last resting place in the quiet little city of her girlhood,
a city where she has been beloved and admired as it is given to
only a few to be beloved and admired. Those who knew her best
know that she valued not the riches of this world, although
worldly riches was her portion; what she placed store by was
eternal riches, and eternal riches shall surely be her reward.
Cache Valley
The Cache Valley people covered themselves with glory m
the very masterful and attractive way in which they celebrated
the centenary of Jim Bridger entering the valley. It was highly
appropriate that this celebration be held in Logan. The guests
of the occasion have returned with glowing accounts of the street
pageant, the variety of entertainment provided the guests, and
the splendid fashion in which Logan, a city of ten thousand inhabitants,
made comfortable forty thousand guests.
The people visiting there saw something more than the
crowds and the festivities especially arranged for the celebration :
they observed that Logan is a beautiful city, consequently the
visitors came back with a tale of enchantment. They tell us of
the clean, weedless streets, of the attractiveness of the business
blocks, of the beauty of the shade trees bordering streets that
have been laid out to follow the natural contour of the country.
Logan is a "city set upon a hill." Her beautiful temple overlooks
her verdant valley, and her temples of learning are justly
a matter of pride both to the Church and to the State. Literally,
she is a "city set upon a hill," speaking of her in terms of her
physical location ; but, above all else, spiritually she is a "city
set upon a hill," for she is an example of civic pride and of
intellectual and spiritual leadership.
In these days when people fancy they must crowd for a
dwelling place to the large cities, they should take a second
thought of all the advantages that may be had in a city the size
of Logan, where the people co-operate to make a city beautiful.