[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 02g | Category: Article | Title: The New Dentist | Author: Pearl Nelson]

Freddie had a very bad tooth, it was loose, and oh ! h ow it di I
ache. He would not let any one look at it, or touch it, until one
day Uncle Joe who came from the city, said :
"Freddie, if you will let me pull your tooth, or if you wiL
go to a dentist, I will give you a dime.''
as he" A llelf t r itghhet , r oSoims . will take me to the dentist," rejoiced Freddie,
Sister Nell was in the library reading a history book when
Freddie entered. "Sis,' he cried all out of breath, "come, take
me to a dentist."
"Oh, don't go to a dentist, I will pull your tooth my very
self,'' she answered, jumping up and starting toward Fred.
"How?" questioned Fred.
"Go get a string and I will show you how," offered Nellie,
"Hurry!"
Freddie dashed out of the door and down the long hall.
Soon he returned dragging a long silk string. His face was red.
His hair hung in his eyes. He was tired and sank down into
the chair gasping for breath and trying at the same time to
speak. Sis took the thread, looked at it for a while, then after
finding it quite strong she glanced at Freddie and laughed.
"Don't get so frightened, now open your mouth and show me
what tooth it is; why, that one? Really it will be very easy
to pull; hold still, there, see here just brace up and your tooth will be out in a few minutes, hold still, now/ and she tied the
string around the big aching tooth. "Now I will jerk the string
and your tooth willbe out — then — "
"No ! n o ! y ou shall not, it will hurt, you can't, I won't let you,
if you do I will — " Freddie's face grew pale. His teeth began
to chatter. Nell looked straight into his face.
"Freddie, you are not a man ; men don't cry at such a small
thing, you must be brave,'' Nell told him.
half "aNfroati d . me," cried Fred as he backed up against the door
"Then let me tie the string to the door, I will shut the door
and the tooth will come out."
"Nope," was the sad reply.
"Let's tie the string to an apple and play catch, then."
"All right, that is the Very thing we shall do. Come on."
Soon they were at the bottom of the orchard. They tied
the string to the biggest apple they could find in the orchard.
"Now Freddie, I will go over to the next tree,, then you
find the apple and throw it to me, and your tooth will be out,"
exclaimed Nell. But just as he went to throw the apple he cried.
. " I simply can't stand to throw the apple. I refuse to have
the tooth pulled, it will hurt, and I know it will, Uncle may have
his dime." He said half to himself.
"Well then, I can't bother with you, I shall go and read,"
explained Nell.
Freddie lay down on the ground and soon fell asleep.
Hours passed. Blackie (the cow) came up and began
to eat the tall grass that was growing around the tree where
Fred was asleep. Soon the cow saw the big apple and began to
eat it.
It was supper time before Mrs. Harris missed Freddie.
They searched all through the house, but found no Freddie. They
searched through the barn, but found no Freddie.
"Uncle Joe, Uncle Joe, its out, her it is — the tooth ! Why
I don't know who pulled it, or anything about it,'' yelled Fred
and he hopped into his Uncle's lap, covering him with kisses.
"How funny," exclaimed Uncle Joe. And they all walked
off to supper.
Several hours later when the (help) man went to milk the
cows he saw a string hanging from old Blackie's mouth, he
pulled the string out and to his great surprise there was the
tooth. Blackie was the new dentist.