[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | December | Issue: 9 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth ward assembly rooms, in
this city, on Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
as usual. As this is an important time
and there is much need of relief among the
poeple in the several wards, it is ardently
desired by the presiding officers of the
society that there should be represent-
atives from each branch present to hear the 
instruction that is likely to be given in
reference to the care of the needy that there
may be no suffering among the people that
can he avoided. A cordial invitation is al-
so extended to all interested in this benevo-
lent work, and especially to the Presidency
of the Church, the presiding Bishops, the 
presidency of this Stake of Zion and the
Bishops of the several wards.
	WE had the pleasure recently of attending
the opening of Miss Maud May Babcock’s
School of Delsarte and Physical Culture in
the Social Hall in this City and of meeting
there her brother Dr W. W. Babcock, who

[Column 2]
in addition to assisting his sister in the
institution is also Resident Physician at St.
Mark’s New Hospital. During the exer-
cises on that occasion Dr. Babcock gave an
interesting talk, explaining, first a history
of the work of physical culture etc. from
the Greek period down, then took up the
work physiologically—the different systems,
physical examinations extant which
would be the basis of all the work—Miss.
Babcock also treated upon this and described
the apparatus which is all new and the
latest patents—1st, mentioned the pulley
weight system first discovered by Dr. D. A.
Sargent, now of Harvard University, th s
system covers about one hundred and fifty
different appliances, of which what is com-
monly know as the chest weight is most
important. These appliances are especially
useful as being adapted to the weakness of
the weak, and the strength of the strong,
and are essentially important, as they can be
used for the development and strength of
particular groups of muscles they have the
rowing machine, chest weight, bridle
stirrup and quarter circle; they have also
full Germam apparatus for German work,
horizontal and vaulting bar, traveling rings,
flying rings, small and large horizontal
parallel bars. Indian Clubs, iron and
wooden dumb bells, wands and rings in the
Swedish work they use all free-hand
gymnastics, except the climbing rope, be-
cause they consider that the most important,
the apparatus work being only accessory of
the measuring appliances, a complete anthro
pometric. Miss Babcock is assisted by Miss
Belle Salmon and Miss Mae Taylor both well
known in this City, and both attended the
summer school at Harvard this year. The
dressing rooms in the building are fitted up
entirely new, bath room has hot and cold
water (entirely new floor in the main hall)
platform nicely fitted up for office and elo-
cution work. On the evening of the open-
ing Miss Babcock recited “King Robert of
Sicily’’ with music by Miss Kate Romney,
Miss Mary Romney rendered a sweet selec-
tion her exquisite voice telling particularly
well on the high notes, and Mr. Hugh
Dougall gave “The Holy City.’’ He
certainly has a magnificent voice and gives
fine expression to the language of the song.
Miss Babcock’s terms of tuition are
reasonable.


