[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Old | Author: Luce]
[Old Tucson Willard Luce]

She swung the door wide for him, and gave him her prettiest smile. "Welcome home, stranger." "Sorry I'm late, honey. Had a customer. Couldn't make it a minute sooner. But [ll eat and run so you can make it to your meeting." Vincent brushed her cheek with a swift kiss as he hurried to wash up. "That's okeh," Wanda replied. She had sort of given up the idea of getting to Relief Society, © but in no time at all Vince was Page 428 grabbing his hat, brushing her cheek with a quick goodbye kiss, and gone. Wanda glanced at the clock, a quarter to two. She almost never left the dishes in the sink, but if she did today she could still make it to Relief Society. Untying her apron, and powdering her nose, Wanda whisked on her tweed sports coat and shut the door gently, leaving it unlatched for her girls when they would come from school. As she left her home, she glanced at the home of Granny Crockett who lived next door. Usually they walked to Relief Society meeting together, but Granny Crockett had probably seen Vince's truck, and gone ahead. But we can walk home together, Wanda thought. It was the literature lesson today, given well by Sister Bates. Imagine writing nine hundred poems and fourteen novels as Thomas Hardy did, the ladies sighed! Only too soon, the meeting was over, and the sisters exchanged greetings and well wishes. Wanda Mason and Granny Crockett slowly walked the short distance to their homes together. "You can tell from his poems Thomas Hardy was a man of the soil,' Granny remarked. "Such a_ well-rounded person, Thomas Hardy was. Imagine, even as a boy, he went around to parties and weddings playing his violin," Wanda reminisced. Then she fell to thinking how Relief Society tipped the scales of PRETTY AS A PANSY values in her life, helping her to shape her outlook and define her goals. She was so engrossed in thoughts of the lesson that she did not remember the dishes in the sink, until she stepped on the porch. Marie and Connie would probably be doing up the dishes right this minute to surprise her. Wanda prepared herself to act really surprised, and lavish them with her praise. But, as she opened the door, the odor of burning meat surrounded her. The girls must be cooking hamburgers. No, it was the expensive ground round steak with which she had planned to make a special new dish. Anger made Wanda rigid at the sight of the very small amount of ground round steak which was left. ER lovely kitchen was a chaos of confusion! <A_ greasy griddle, burned almost black, was on the cupboard, and the lovely copperbottom skillet was filled with hamburgers and onions. Wanda glanced through the rooms to see the girls' school clothes draped on the beds, the living room strewn' with crumbs, while the television blasted away at high volume. 'The house Wanda had spent all morning cleaning was in utter disorder. Suddenly Wanda was scolding as rain pours down in cascades. Connie and Marie stood by with startled consternation on their faces. Wanda, realizing she had been too hasty, went to her room and shut the door quickly behind her. Shame at her outburst and discouragement seemed to engulf her. She was disappointed, too. Would the girls never learn? Would they never start to take hold, to keep the house 429 in shape, to think before using up household stores? Wanda - said nothing when the children took choice things like nuts, cherries, and olives, but now when they were using the dinner meat for afterschool snacks, that was the last straw. "All morning I've worked in the house and for what?" she asked herself aloud. "I would have been ahead if I had forgotten the house entirely and planted the pansies that are waiting." Wanda put on her gardening things, tied a scarf on her hair, and walked through the house, looking neither to the right nor to the left. On the porch she picked up the pansy plants she had purchased yesterday at the greenhouse and, with the planter fork, left the house, slamming the door almost childishly behind her. As Wanda's hands worked in the rich black soil, she thought again of the poet Thomas Hardy, and the common rural people of whom he wrote. Gradually her mind seemed to grope its way from a soundless sort of fog. RANNY Crockett, next door, sat crocheting on her warm sun porch. She had sat down to rest after the walk from Relief Society. As her hands moved, her mind dwelt on the lesson at Relief Society. She recalled a line from one of 'Thomas Hardy's poems: "This is the weather the cuckoo likes, and so do I." Suddenly from next door she heard Wanda's voice raised in scolding. "Why land sakes, pretty Wanda Mason went into that house not more than five minutes ago. Won- 430 der what mischief she found her girls into?" Granny said softly. 'Harsh words are molded on children's memories forever." Her mind went back to a day, when, as a little child, her mother in heated wrath had called her a lozy dolt. Granny's head, with its hair pinned neatly into a round flat knot at the crown of her neck, shook as if to erase the memory. It was only when she looked up from her crocheting that she noticed Wanda Mason in her garden, setting out pansy plants. Granny laid down her crochet work and, out of the corner of her eye, saw Wanda Mason wipe her eyes with the sleeve of her shirt, as she knelt in the flower bed. Suddenly Granny Crockett remembered the water cress a neighbor had brought her from his last fishing trip. Wrapping a generous portion of the cress in wax paper and going out the back door, she meandered over to where Wanda Mason was setting out her pansies. It wasn't until Granny Crockett was right to Wanda that she noticed the tears falling from her eyes, moistening the soil where she was working. Words seemed inadequate. Instead, Granny Crockett placed her hand gently on Wanda's shoulder. Wanda looked up startled, but, at sight of Granny Crockett, the flood locks broke, and a new flow of tears rushed forth. "There, there, child,' Granny Crockett comforted. "I suppose you heard me raise my voice to the children. I'm so dreadfully ashamed. But, oh, Granny, I a so hard to make a real home. A clean home, and I skimp and go without to plan and prepare nice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 meals, and the children."" Wanda told Granny everything, how she had found the house, and about the dinner meat used for after-school hamburgers. "It is discouraging," Granny Crockett admitted.. "And yet I'd give a lot, if my children were close enough to raid my pantry.

I've lived to see three generations, and they all do it sometime or another, and they all seem to come through that growing hungry stage like a blueribbon heifer. I brought you over some water cress." "Why, how nice. You know how we love it in the spring. Thanks so much," Wanda said. "You have chosen a nice assortment of pansy plants," Granny Crockett said, looking at the plants Wanda was planting. ANDA was pleased. Granny Crockett had a "green thumb," and Wanda appreciated any floral compliment Granny gave her. "I do hope they grow." "They'll grow," Granny Crockett nodded knowingly, "just like those two lovely girls of yours are growing.", Wanda, who had placed the last plant in its little moistened crevice and anchored it firmly with black rich soil, shifted herself from her knees to her feet and stood surveying the plants. "Those blooms should be picked, to strengthen the roots. I'll let the girls do that for the table decoration for our supper table." Wanda realized that in her planting, she had also planted every bit of her wrath. "I want you to come and see my pansy bed now, Sister Wanda. Pansies are such choice little flowers. PRETTY AS A PANSY Why, they're almost human when you look straight in their faces. Come." She took Wanda's arm firmly. Together, they walked through the arbor that divided the Mason and the Crockett lawns, and which would be covered with climbing roses in June. "See those tiny pansies peeping through?" Granny Crockett asked. "Once I spaded up a bed because I saw a weed or two. But in doing it, I uprooted the tiny pansies just pushing through. Life's like that. Sometimes we uproot our homes and children to get mid of a weed or two of wrong, that would wither later, on their own. What children really need more than spading, is warm, loving sunshine... The sunshine of a mother's loving smile. A smile that is as dependable as the sun's rays." Wanda realized, with a pang of consternation, that her children had seen her face torn with anger. No wonder they had looked so startled. She secretly vowed to try to keep it from happening again. Lilac dusk was creeping upon them, but Wanda's mind had already taken up its routine. She could make spaghetti and meat balls for supper. The family enjoyed the dishes they were used to more than something new and fancy, anyway. 43] And the water cress gift from Granny Crockett would make a_ lovely cress and hard-boiled egg salad, which would be a treat for Vince and the girls on a spring evening. And she would pull out a cherry pie from the deep freeze, as a sort of celebration of her burying the hatchet, so to speak. "I must hurry," Wanda said. Her face smiled like the big white pansies which Granny Crockett knew would later bloom in her garden. "And thanks... Thanks for everything!"" Wanda added. When she walked into her home, it seemed her own little world had righted itself. 'The school clothes were put away, the coats hung neatly in the hall, and Marie and Connie were doing the dishes. "We were going to surprise you," they chorused when caught in the act. "What a happy surprise!'"" Wanda smiled a pretty violet-eyed pansy smile Granny Crockett walked through the garden and over the smooth green lawn which sloped to the lily pond. <A _ bluebird came flashing out of nowhere, and stopped short on seeing her so closely, then flitted away among the peonies beside the garden fence. Granny smiled, all was calm and smooth again. 'The pansy faces all were smiling faces. Her Hands Luella N. Adams Not shapely white, those precious hands— Deep lined, with labor etched, They helped to build an empire, Those hands that rested not. Kind hands that eased our childish pain We know that we will clasp again. Old Sucson Willard Luce LD Tucson isn't nearly as old as it sounds—or looks. Its crumbling adobe walls seem to have weathered centuries of desert wind and rain. Its warped lumber seems to have been burned brown by the desert sun and sucked dry of all moisture. Its hitchracks appear to have tethered a thousand horses. But all this is make-believe. Old Tucson was born in 1940, created by Hollywood for the movie "Arizona." Built in the Tucson Mountains a few miles west of Tucson, Arizona, the set was constructed to represent the old Spanish settlement of Tucson during our Civil War days. When the film was finished, the movie company moved out and the Junior Chamber of Commerce moved in. 'They kept the set repaired as a show place for tourists and as a location for their annual 'Tucson Daze celebration held each autumn. Since 'Tucson ls a square dancing center with a dozen or more clubs meeting regularly, the J. C.'s inaugurated square dancing at Old Tucson. 'These weekly get-togethers are well attended by visitors and natives alike. Since 1940, the movie companies have moved back to Old Tucson on several occasions. In 1954 they came back for the Cinemascope production of Greer Garson's "Strange Lady in Town." They completely remodeled Old Tucson. They covered some of the adobe Page 432 walls with boards. They added second stories to some of the buildings. 'They built hotels, livery stables, saloons, and a dozen other establishments until you just wouldn't know the old town. And that is quite as it should be since the setting for this new, full-color film was Santa Fe, New Mexico, 7 9) just before the "Gay go's. Most of these buildings are complete — not just walls and false fronts. They are colorful, authentic, and a tourist attracter of the first magnitude. 'Today, however, Wards Saloon dispenses soft drinks, postcards, and other tourist subplies. 'There are other business houses which open and do a landoffice business during "Tucson Daze" and the height of the tourist season. It is said that the set will soon be reconverted back to the original "Old Tucson." Set on a valley floor in the Tucson Mountain Park, the make-believe town is surrounded by giant saguaro cactus. On the east and south the rugged mountain peaks hover over it. There are picnicking areas in the Tucson Mountain Park, and there is the Trailside Museum. 'This museum features live exhibits of the fauna and flora of the ArizonaSonora desert. 'The larger animals include the peccary — or wild hog — mountain lion, wildcat, ocelot, etc. The small animal room in- OLD TUCSON Willard Luce MOVIE SET OF "OLD TUCSON," TUCSON MOUNTAIN PARK ARIZONA cludes live species of centipedes, scorpions, lizards, rodents, and snakes. 'Trails lead through the botanical gardens where the plants are well labeled. Desert water holes have been so placed as to give the visitor an opportunity to study the desert wild life at first hand. So, even if Old Tucson isn't as old as it sounds, it's an interesting place to visit, especially if you take in the rest of Tucson Mountain Park. -—fa—— Wega Grace Barker Wilson The shades are drawn, the doors are closed, And all about an empty look Proclaims a solitary house That somebody forsook. Around the yard the grass grows tall, And weeds crowd every flower bed; The stray dogs in the neighborhood Hold counsel there, instead.