[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Kaiser]
RECIPES FROM THE DANISH MISSION 447 AEG 0G SILD (Eggs and Herrings) Spread slices of hard boiled egg on buttered bread and place one or more boned herrings lengthwise on the egg. Decorate with cress. REJEMAD (Shrimp Sandwich) The small Danish shrimps are extremely popular delicacies, and most Danish housewives are virtual masters at peeling them, but it is slow work for the beginner. At restaurants, shrimps are always served peeled, unless the customer specifically asks for unpeeled ones. Put a fresh leaf of lettuce on the buttered bread and top abundantly with cold boiled shrimps. DyRLAEGENS NATMAD ("The Veterinarian's Midnight Snack'') Spread spiced lard on a piece of dark rye bread, and put slices of liver paste on top. Pieces of jellied consomme are placed over this, and on top, pieces of slightly salted boiled veal. Decorate with cress. RoguEeFoRT Ost MED AEGGEBLOMME (Blue Cheese and Egg Yolk) Butter a piece of white bread and spread Danish blue cheese — or gorgonzola — in a ring, making a hollow in the center. When eating the sandwich, break the raw egg yolk and spread it across the cheese. Thin slices of radish may be used to decorate this and other kinds of cheese sandwiches. KopsuPPE MED URTER OG BOLLER (Meat Soup With Vegetables, Meat Balls, and Dumplings) Soup 8% Ibs. Beef 5 leeks 7 qts. Water parsley 1 celeriac (a variety of celery) salt and pepper to taste 4 Carrots Put the beef in water, add salt, cover, and boil for fifteen minutes. Then skim, and add celery or celeriac, carrots, leeks, and a bunch of the top of a leek, leaves from the celeriac or celery, a sprig of parsley and seasoning. When meat is tender, remove, together with the vegetables, and strain the soup. Cut the vegetables in small pieces. Meat Batts % Ib. Veal 2 c. Milk "2 Ib. Pork 1 egg 2 tbsp. Flour salt and pepper to taste Put veal and pork together through the grinder four or five times. Add flour, milk, and eggs. Boil the meat balls by themselves, but do not add to the soup until they are done, otherwise, they will thicken the soup. Dumptincs 24 c. Butter 5 eggs 1 c. Flour little salt and sugar 1 c. Water Melt butter, stir in flour and add boiling water. When mixture is cool, add egg yolks and a little salt and sugar. Finally, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Form into 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 tiny balls with a teaspoon, and drop into boiling water. Cook slowly for a few minutes, and remove from water with a perforated spoon. Put the dumplings, the meat balls, and the vegetables in the soup and serve. Slice the beef and serve it afterwards with boiled potatoes and horse-radish sauce. AEBLEKAGE (Apple Cake) 2 Ibs. Cooking apples jelly 1 c. Melted butter whipped cream sweeten to taste vanilla dried bread crumbs Peel, core, and quarter apples. Simmer, covered in a little water, until soft. Force through a sieve and sweeten to taste. Add vanilla. Butter a fireproof dish, put layers of bread crumbs and layers of applesauce into the dish alternately, letting the bottom and the top layer be of bread crumbs. Pour the melted butter down through the apple cake, and bake for 30 minutes in a hot oven. 'Turn on to a plate and decorate with jelly and whipped cream. Additional whipped cream may be served in a separate dish. Serve the cake either hot or cold. KRINGLE (Knot-shaped Cake) 300 grams flour 2 eggs 300 grams butter or margarine 60 grams dry yeast 200 grams sugar egg and sugar for coating Mix flour with margarine or butter. Stir yeast with a little sugar and put it in the flour together with eggs. Roll the dough at once in two bars. Stir butter with sugar and place it on the bars. Form the bars as a knot, place them in the pan, and let them rise from three to four hours. Coat with egg and sugar. Bake in a hot oven (375°) for about 20 minutes. Note: About 28% grams equal an ounce in avoirdupois weight. For purposes of cooking measurements, it would be reliable to figure about 28 grams to an ounce. Ci1TRON-FROMAGE (Lemon Sponge Cream) 5 eggs 5 sheets husblas (unsweetened gelatine 100 grams sugar equal to one envelope) juice and grated peel of 1 lemon Whip egg yolks and sugar light and foamy. Add lemon juice and grated peel. Stir soaked, melted, and warmed gelatine in the eggs. Place in a cool place. When it thickens, mix carefully the stiff whipped egg whites in it. Pour into a bowl and set in a cool place until it is completely stiff. Decorate wth whipped cream. Note: If the sponge cream parts into two layers, the yolks and the whites have been mixed too early. If the gelatine thickens in fluffs or lumps, it has been too cold and added too slowly when it was mixed in the sponge cream. <-> Each Day Js Mine Mary Hess Hackney As time unwinds upon life's reel, Each day is mine, and none can steal The happiness and deep content That come to me with time well spent. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Fourteen-year-old Annie Griffith is taken by her father to Salt Lake City at the invitation of the Wialhams family to live and be educated with their daughter Marie. Annie's family is temporarily living in the mountains while Brother Griffith serves a mission to cut stone for the temple. Annie, almost in tears, bids goodbye to her father, and is comforted by Parker Josephson, a neighbor and friend of the Williams family. For Annie Griffith, and she was able to get over the first pangs of homesickness that she had felt. She longed for word of her family, and letters did come whenever anyone from the camp came to the town. She applied herself to her lessons and grew quite proud of the ease with which she sailed through her first Latin grammar. She would be reading Julius Caesar in no time, Professor Peterson said. But her heart sank as the days got crisper, and it was obvious that her father wasn't going to be able to make another trip down until spring. She hadn't really expected him, but the thought that he might, had comforted her at night those first sad days. Annie and Marie ran around the top of the carriage house spreading white sheets to dry fruit on. The apricots and corn were all long safe in the cellar, and the season for preparing for the winter, nearly over. Parker Josephson came out of his house and waved at the girls. He was with his father, and they were T HE days turned into a pattern on their way back to the Josephson store. Both girls nearly tumbled off the roof trying to wave back. Marie called out, but her Aunt Agnes reproved her _ sharply. "Theyre on their way back to Brother Josephson's store; you can't delay them for foolish play. Besides, Parker has a great many things to do these last few days, and you girls must leave him alone, so he can get ready without being interrupted by your games and jokes." Marie stood up with her arms akimbo. "Aunt Agnes, what's he getting ready for?" "Now, I have let the cat out of the bag, and we'll never finish our work. It's time for your lessons in less than an hour, and we've too much to do to waste it gabbing." Aunt Agnes set her lips firmly, and Anmie and Marie began to work again. Marie broke the silence once, but her Aunt Agnes again stopped her short. It wasn't until they raced back into the house for lesson time, that Marie rushed to her mother with their questions. "Why, girls, Marie dear, Parkers going back East to a university, a college. He's going to prepare himself in mathematics and the sciences so he can come home some day, and help make our own university a place to be proud of. I thought perhaps he might have told you already, Marie, but I suppose he was trying to save your feelings a few more happy days. He has been Page 449 450 such a good playmate for a little girl who had no sisters or brothers of her own. But now you have Annie." "I want Parker," Marie cried, and she burst into tears. "How long will he be gone?" Annie asked. Sister Williams stroked Marie's hair. "About three years, they say. Don't cry, Marie. He'll come back. You have other friends who love you, Marie." Marie looked up. "We can make him a present to take. Oh, Annie, let's make him something special. Only you'll have to do the sewing, because I'm such a dunce at sewing." Aunt Agnes stood in the doorway. "You're a little dunce, because you never finish anything you start. But I'll help you cut out and sew Parker a shirt, if you promise to stay with the project until it's completed." "I will, I will.' Marie danced with joy. '""That's a real present he'll love, won't he, Annie?" "Yes, if we can make it nicely enough. I've helped with my brother's shirts at home, but Mama always made Daddy's shirts." "I won't let you make any mistakes." Aunt Agnes smiled at Annie's earnest concern. "You'll be able to handle everything very well, I'm sure." HE week before Parker was to leave, Brother and Sister Williams had a small dinner for him in their home. There had been a dance held especially in his honor at the Church amusement hall, but the girls had had to come home early. Parker had been very fair; he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 danced with friends his own age, but had included one dance each for Marie and Annie. Aunt Agnes had thought they were much too young for that sort of thing. The girls had lain in bed and talked about the dance after Marie had finally stopped grumbling about having to come home so early. "It won't be the same without Parker,' Marie lamented, turning over and resting her cheek snugly in her pillow. "No," said Annie, "it won't be the same." "Tm glad he's coming to our place last of all before he's to go. Mama and Papa have been friends with his parents before I was even born. Do you think he'll ever come back?" "Of course," said Annie who was lying on her back looking up toward the dark ceiling. "Then Pm going to wait and marry him then," said Marie yawning. In a moment she was sound asleep, and, finally, Annie turned over and slept also. Sister Williams used her best china, the china Brother Williams had brought all the way from New York, for the special Parker dinner, as they called it. The girls flew back and forth working all day to help get the house shining and the dinner ready. 'There were no lessons that day, which made Marie jump for joy. The shirt was finished and pressed neatly and tied up in a package ready for Parker. "I'll be the one to give it to him," Marie said happily. "Annie should be the one," said Aunt Agnes, "since she did almost HEART'S BOUNTY all the work. You'll never be much of a sewer, I'm afraid, Marie." Sister Willams was brushing Marie's ringlets. "You're so hard on her, Agnes. Marie can give the shirt for both of them. Annie will be right there. He'll know they both did their best." "You'll let me, won't you, Annie?" Marie pleaded. "Of course, it doesn't matter who gives it to him." "You see!" phantly. "Do hold still," her mother pleaded. "We don't have much time to finish dressing, and you're taking all the time with your hair. Look, Annie's ready to go down and help again in the kitchen." Annie had braided her heavy black hair so tightly it pulled at her scalp. Her face was scrubbed until it shone, and the dark blue of her dress matched her eyes exactly. She followed Aunt Agnes back down the long dark stairs to the kitchen and pantry, where the main _ preparations for the meal were in progress. Steam covered all the downstairs windows, and it was unbearably warm in the kitchen. 'They dared not open the outside door, because both Sister Williams and Marie were prone to lung congestion. There were beads of perspiration on Annie's brow before it was finally time to serve dinner. Brother and Sister Josephson and two other families had come to the dinner. Though the girls helped with the serving, they also ate at the large, round dinner table. Annie thought she had never tasted such delicious roast beef and Yorkshire pudding. There were so many things to learn, Marie. Said trium- 451 thought Annie. They had not been able to have many elaborate dinners in the mountains. But there were not many years left, and they would all be back together on her father's farm. She would know a great deal by then, she thought. HEY saved the presents until after dinner. 'The families gathered in the parlor for singing, and then came the moment the girls had decided upon to present Parker with his shirt. Marie's eyes sparkled as she laid it in his lap. He untied it and declared that it was the nicest shirt he'd ever owned. Then he kissed Marie on the top of her head for a thank you, but Annie ran and hid in the kitchen when he came over to thank her, which made everyone laugh. They sang "Auld Lang Syne" and "God Be With You," and then Brother Williams said the evening prayers, with everyone kneeling against the chairs and_ loveseat. Everyone hated to say goodbye to Parker. He was such a lot of fun, and he was very industrious, everyone said. But he would be able to better serve his Church and _ people with further education, and he did have a good mind. At dawn the next morning, Marie and Annie ran and hid behind the lilac bushes to watch Parker leave with his father in the buggy. 'The girls had agreed to say nothing, simply to hide there and watch him leave, but at the last minute, Marie had danced out into the path calling, "Goodbye, Parker, goodbye." He ran over, then, and ordered Marie back into the house before She caught her death of cold. 452 "Goodbye, little Marie," he said. "Goodbye, Annie. Why did you run and hide last night when I wanted to say goodbye?" "I don't know," Annie said, and tried to drop behind Marie. "Here, then," Parker said. "We'll shake hands before I go, anyway." Annie offered her hand while Marie hopped up and down and cried, "You will write to us, won't you, Parker?" "T surely will, if you'll answer my letters. Now run back into the house both of you, or Marie's mother will never forgive me. Go on, while I watch. And no sniffling, Marie." Annie turned to follow Marie, but Parker caught her arm again. "Annie, will you still be here when I get back?" "I think so," Annie said without looking at him. "I guess you'll be all grown up then, but I hope you'll be here or not too far away, anyway." Annie tried to draw away, and this time he let her go, but he didn't turn until the big door had closed on both the girls. I was hard for Marie and Annie to concentrate on their lessons. In a few days, though, they felt less as if they had lost their only friend, and began to play again and consider that there would be a time when Parker would be coming back. By spring Annie was well into Julius Caesar and able to read it very well. Professor Peterson had nothing but praise for the results of her serious efforts. Marie would bend her golden head over her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 book, stumbling on the phrases until her face would grow scarlet. Annie yearned to whisper the answers, but she was far too afraid of the wrath of their teacher. The lessons sometimes ended with Marie in a fit of tears, but, more often, Marie was indifferent. "I never want to be a teacher," she would say petulantly, when her teacher would question her why she was not better prepared. "I'm going to get married." "Do you not think you need to know anything to get married?" Professor Peterson's face would get angry. When Marie's mother sat in the room with them, the lessons went more peacefully. Often two other girls joined them for special lessons. It was more fun in a larger group, Annie thought, and Marie did better when she wasn't really pinned down to be specific in her answers. In the spring, the girls were told that this year would finish any mathematics they were to have. Marie was delighted, but Annie stayed to talk to Professor Peterson after their lessons. "IT feel I know nothing about mathematics," she explained. "I would like you to help me go on in that study next fall. I can't stop now before I've really learned anything." Professor Peterson put his finger beside his nose. "You may continue those lessons. Most certainly." He did not say it, but Annie with her quick mind was a continual delight to him. And now this. Yes, she would make a fine teacher. "The glory of God is intelligence."

HEART'S BOUNTY AFTER the snow melted and the earth dried for summer, Annie began to look forward to seeing her father again. She half expected someone to bring a letter letting her know when he might be coming into Salt Lake. One afternoon after she had finished scrubbing the kitchen, the pantry, the porch, and the stairs that led down to the board walk in back of the house, she looked up to see Aunt Agnes (as she now called Marie's Aunt) beckoning her from the window. There was a stitch in her back when she stood up, and she hadn't washed her hands yet, but she went right back up the stairs. She rinsed her hands in the kitchen and Aunt Agnes came to the doorway in some agitation. "Annie, dear, do hurry. There's news of your father in the parlor." Annie never bothered to dry her hands at all. A letter? Here? She ran down the hall toward the front of the house, seeking Sister Williams who must have the letter. "No, not a letter," Aunt Agnes called, but Annie dashed into the parlor and almost stumbled over her father sitting quietly talking to Sister Williams. He caught her in his arms and kissed her soundly and made her sit down. "Oh, Father," Annie cried, "I was going to impress you so with my lady-like behavior when you came, and now I've spoiled everything." "You did come in a bit swiftly," her father laughed. "But Sister Williams has told me enough to make me very happy and proud of you, Annie." Annie's eyes thanked Sister Williams. It was wonderful to visit 453 with her father again, and get news of her mother and her brothers. They talked of how quickly the year had gone by, and how quickly the next three years would pass, and then they would be back together again at their own farm, north of Great Salt Lake City. Annie would be able to teach somewhere close by, or perhaps stay at home and help her mother. Annie thought that would be wonderful. It was sad to see her father go again in two days, but Annie didn't need anyone this time to help her through the parting, as Parker had helped her the year before. She cried a little in her pillow at night, but woke with a happy heart and a zest for all the things she and Marie were required to do each day. She read the Aeneid the next winter, and began Greek. She had always been excellent in spelling and reading and was doing well, Professor Peterson thought, in her mathematics—for a girl. "You could make a first-rate scholar," Professor Peterson told her once. "But Marie, you're dawdling all your time and talent away." Marie never heard. She daydreamed, with her curls caught between her pretty hands. "Annie, which trim shall I have on my new dress, the pink lace or the brown?" Professor Peterson stood up in exasperation, and the lessons were over for another day. Annie worked all summer over presents te send to her family. She knitted a warm woolen petticoat and shawl for her mother, and made shirts and socks for her broth- 454 ers and father. Sometimes she was desperate because she felt she might never finish them before the last wagon went up to the little camp in the mountains. There was little time when she was not working or studying or accompanying Marie somewhere. But she did get her bundle completed and firmly packed and sent off with Brother Harris who had his small family up in the mountains, too. Annie felt dull and just a little sad, with her sewing finished and no new project immediately in sight. 'The days were getting cold and sharp when Marie and Annie received their first letter from Parker Josephson. Marie squealed with delight. "TIsn't he kind and thoughtful to include both our names on the letter, Annie? Isn't he wonderful?" He told of the big Eastern university and the pretty countryside, and how much more foliage there was back there than at home. He said he missed everyone very much, but especially the jokes and fun of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 his two little friends. There was also a long letter to Marie's parents and, of course, mail for his own family and other friends his own age. "We must write him back at once," Marie said. "You can help me with a letter, Annie. Help me think of things to say." "And how to spell the words?" asked Aunt Agnes briskly. "Yes," laughed Marie. "I'll write the letter. What do you want me to tell Parker for you, Annie?" Aunt Agnes bit a thread with her teeth. 'Marie, maybe Annie wants to write her own letter." "No, that's all nght," Annie said, not looking up from her crocheting. "Marie can tell him hello for me." Marie danced off to get the materials for writing from her mother. Annie pressed her lips together firmly and blinked back the sting against her eyelids. It was foolish to be so sensitive. She would have to learn to be less so. (To be continued ) — Jn the Quiet Harbor Mabel Law Atkinson Within the harbor of tranquility I judge the ravages of pirate years Less harshly than the while they plundered me, Flaunting their dreaded gonfalon of fears; For now I know the wise, far-seeing Pilot Chartered the course my fragile craft should take To come at last unto fulfillment's islet Where starlings call a challenge from the brake. Where once the winds of desolation moaned To mock my cry, re-echoes lyric song— Mute carillons of angels were intoned Within despair to guide my craft along. The dreams I thought the piste years had killed I = ~ Now in thé quiet' harbor are fulfilled.- °° —e ale BRIM c 2 CUT DOUBLE {: i Vv < 18" - YO vO iS / Back i 18!)