[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sandwiches | Author: Gardner]
This  easily  prepared  spread  is  excellent  for  sandwiches  and  hors  d'oeuvres.  The 
possibilities  of  seasoning  it  are  endless. 
1  pound  cheddar-type  cheese  —  any  smooth  melting  cheese  may  be  used.  Process 
cheese  is  excellent. 
1  tall  can  evaporated  milk. 
Grate  cheese  or  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  cheese  and  milk  in  top  part  of  double 
boiler;  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  just  until  the  cheese  melts.  Remove 
from  heat  and  season  to  taste.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  divide  the  mixture  into  2  or  3 
portions  and  season  each  differently. 
Seasonings:   Minced  chives,  pimiento,  or  parsley 
Chopped  olives  or  celery 
Pickle  relish 
Prepared  mustard 
Caraway  seeds 
Chicken  Salad  Rolls 
Combine  1  c.  each  minced  chicken  and  celery,  and  Vz  c.  each  chopped  nuts  and 
shredded  carrots  with  %  c.  thick  sour  cream,  2  tbsp.  French  dressing;  1  tsp.  each  salt 
and  dry  mustard,  and  Vi  tsp.  sage.    Spread  on  8  buttered  rolls. 
Page  456

SANDWICHES  457 
Chicken  Salad 
Combine  1  Vz  c.  chopped  cooked  chicken,  lA  c.  chopped  celery,  2  tbsp.  chopped 
olives,  %  tsp.  salt.  Mix  with  enough  mayonnaise  to  moisten  —  about  4  tbsp.  Add  a 
crisp  leaf  of  lettuce  or  shredded  lettuce  to  each  sandwich.  (Tuna  may  be  used  in  place 
of  chicken.) 
Chicken  and  Almond 
Combine  1  c.  chopped  cooked  chicken,  Vs  c.  chopped  toasted  almonds  or  peanuts, 
3  tbsp.  mayonnaise,  3  tbsp.  sour  cream,  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mix  well. 
Chicken  Treat 
Use  two  parts  each  of  chopped  cooked  chicken  and  broken  California  walnuts  with 
1  part  drained  crushed  pineapple,  moistened  with  salad  dressing. 
Corned  Beef 
Combine  1  c.  chopped  corned  beef,  Vz  c.  chopped  celery,  1  tsp.  grated  onion,  1 
tbsp.  prepared  mustard,  2  tbsp.  mayonnaise.  Mix  well. 
Tuna  Special 
Remove  excess  oil  from  canned  tuna  fish.  Flake  fish  and  combine  1  c.  with  lA  c. 
each  of  chopped  celery,  nuts,  and  olives;  add  Vz  tsp.  salt  and  mayonnaise,  enough  to 
moisten  —  about  4  tbsp. 
Orange  Crunch  Sandwiches 
3  oranges,  1  tbsp.  butter,  2  c.  granulated  sugar,  1  c.  boiling  water. 
Put  orange  rinds  and  all  through  food  chopper,  using  coarse  blade.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
ents in  saucepan.  Boil  about  15  minutes  or  until  mixture  is  thick.  Store  in  covered 
jar  in  refrigerator.  When  ready  to  use,  spread  slices  of  raisin  bread  with  butter.  Mix 
chunk  style  peanut  butter  into  as  much  of  the  orange  mixture  as  you  intend  to  use. 
Spread  on  bread. 
SANDWICH  FILLINGS  SUITABLE  FOR  FREEZING: 
Beef  and  Ketchup 
1  !4    c.  cooked  ground  beef  Vz    tsp.  salt 
1       tsp.  Worcestershire  %  c.  ketchup 
1       tbsp.  softened  butter 
Corned  Beef 
1  c.  (12  oz.  can)  corned  beef,  chopped  2  tbsp.  pickle  relish 
Vz   c.  cooked  salad  dressing  Vz    tsp.  celery  salt 
Chicken  or  Tuna  and  Pickle 
1  lA   c.  cooked,  chopped  chicken  or  tuna  %   c.  boiled  salad  dressing  or  undiluted 
54   c.  chopped  pickle  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1       tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  XA   tsp.  celery  salt