[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Lunches and Sandwiches Rhea H. Gardner]
the  Father's  work.  ".  .  .  this  is  the 
thing  which  I  will  give  unto  you 
for  a  sign/'  he  said,  "for  verily  I  say 
unto  you  that  when  these  things 
which  I  declare  unto  you,  and  which 
I  shall  declare  unto  you  hereafter  of 
myself,  and  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  which  shall  be  given 
unto  you  of  the  Father,  shall  be 
made  known  unto  the  Gentiles  that 
they  may  know  concerning  .  .  .  this 
my  people  who  shall  be  scattered 
by  them  ...  it  shall  be  a  sign  unto 
them,  that  they  may  know  that  the 
work  of  the  Father  hath  already 
commenced  unto  the  fulfilling  of 
the  covenant  which  he  hath  made 
unto  the  people  who  are  of  the 
house  of  Israel"  (3  Nephi  21:2,  7). 
Jesus  further  told  the  Nephites 
that  a  great  work  should  be  accom- 
plished at  that  time  and  that  there 
wrould  be  many  who  would  not  be- 
lieve it  ".  .  .  although  a  man  shall 
declare  it  unto  them"  (3  Nephi 
21:9). 
Concerning  the  Gentiles  in  that 
day,  Jesus  said:  "Yea,  wo  be  unto 
the  Gentiles  except  they  repent .  .  ." 
(3  Nephi  21:14).  On  the  other 
hand,  he  pointed  out,  if  they  would 
repent  and  "...  hearken  unto  my 
words  .  .  ."  he  would  establish  his 
church  among  them: 
.  .  .  and  they  shall  come  in  unto  the 
covenant  and  be  numbered  among  this 
the  remnant  of  Jacob,  unto  whom  I  have 
given  this  land  for  their  inheritance 
(3  Nephi  21:22). 
Jesus  was  deeply  concerned  over 
the  Gentiles  and  the  Jews  of  the  last 
days  when  the  record  of  the  Ne-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
481 
phites  should  come  forth  amongst 
them.  He  stressed  the  importance 
of  the  sacrament  in  the  lives  of  the 
Nephites,  informing  them  that  it 
would  help  them  to  remember  him, 
that  it  would  be  a  witness  unto  the 
Father  that  they  did  remember  him. 
He  also  was  grateful  unto  his  Fa- 
ther that  the  disciples  had  been 
given  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  com- 
panion. The  Savior's  emphasis  up- 
on the  sacrament  and  upon  the  be- 
stowal of  the  Holy  Ghost,  indicates 
the  great  importance  of  these  ordi- 
nances. Sometimes,  however,  par- 
taking of  the  sacrament  becomes  so 
routine  in  our  lives  that  we  do  not 
derive  the  full  benefit  from  it.  Only 
as  we  live  worthily  and  meditate  up- 
on the  meaning  of  the  sacrifice  of 
the   Savior  and   the   covenants  we 
take,  can  we  get  the  full  blessing 
that  accompanies  proper  participa- 
tion. After  we  have  been  baptized 
and  confirmed  and  have  received 
the  Holy  Ghost,  we  must  continue 
to  be  faithful,  to  live  the  gospel,  if 
we  are  to  have  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
its  influence  to  direct  our  lives. 
Questions  on  the  Lesson 
i.  What  miracles  did  Jesus  perform 
among  the  Nephites? 
2.  What  did  Jesus  say  about  the  latter- 
day  Gentiles? 
3.  What  did  he  say  about  the  latter- 
day  Jews? 
4.  Discuss  the  importance  of  the  ordi- 
nance of  the  sacrament. 
5.  Discuss  the  significance  and  blessings 
attached  to  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 
Visiting  cJeacher    1 1 Lessages — 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  41—  "Yea,  Wo  Unto  Him  That  Shall   Deny  the  Revelations  of  the 
Lord  and  That  Shall  Say  the  Lord  No  Longer  Worketh  by  Revelation  .  .  ." 
(3  Nephi  29:6). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  October  2,  1956 
Objective:  To  show  that  faith  in  continuous  revelation  is  essential  to  a  testimony 
of  the  truth  of  the  gospel. 
CONTINUOUS  revelation  is  the 
foundation  stone  upon  which 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  is  built.  It  was  also 
by  means  of  this  principle  that  the 
Church  was  restored  in  these  latter 
days.  When  the  Father  and  the 
Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  in 
1820  that  principle  was  reaffirmed 
in  modern  times. 
Many    people    discount    divine 
revelation  entirely,  saying  such  be- 
lief is  purely  mythical,  that  the 
scriptures  are  only  unproved  tradi- 
tion. Others  say  that  revelation  is 
no  longer  necessary,  that  God  gave 
all  the  instructions  needed  for  the 
welfare  of  mankind,  in  ancient  days. 
But  Latter-day  Saints  ".  .  .  believe 
all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that 
He  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe 
that  He  will  yet  reveal  many  great

482 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1956 
and  important  things  pertaining  to 
the  Kingdom  of  God"  (9th  Article 
of  Faith). 
There  are  certain  fundamental 
principles  and  commandments  in 
the  scriptures  which  apply  to  all 
ages.  Other  revelations  may  apply 
only  to  particular  circumstances.  It 
was  necessary,  for  example,  for  the 
Lord  to  instruct  Moses  day  by  day, 
in  the  flight  of  the  children  of  Israel 
from  Egypt.  The  resurrected  Christ 
told  the  Nephites: 
Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  the  law  is 
fulfilled  that  was  given  unto  Moses. 
Behold,  I  am  he  that  gave  the  law,  and 
I  am  he  who  covenanted  with  my  peo- 
ple Israel;  therefore,  the  law  in  me  is  ful- 
filled, for  I  have  come  to  fulfil  the  law; 
therefore    it    hath    an    end     (3     Nephi 
l5:4-5)- 
Brigham  Young  was  given  reve- 
lation concerning  the  westward 
march  of  the  saints  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains,  etc.  Guidance  is  defi- 
nitely needed  from  God  in  all  ages 
and  for  different  circumstances. 
It  would  seem  inconsistent  for 
anyone  who  believes  in  the  Bible  to 
reject  the  principle  of  continuous 
revelation,  for  surely  a  just  and  lov- 
ing God,  who  is  "the  same  yester- 
day, today  and  forever"  would  not 
reveal  his  will  to  Noah,  to  Abraham, 
to  Moses  and  others,  yet  leave  later 
generations  without  contact. 
Many  people  inquire,  "Do  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church  receive 
revelations  today?"  Certainly  they 
do.  Revelations  are  received  cur- 
rently for  the  welfare  of  the  Church 
as  a  whole.  Because  they  do  not 
appear  in  book  form  as  do  those  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  for 
example,  does  not  mean  they  are 
any  less  important  or  authoritative. 
In  a  recent  address  on  the  sub- 
ject of  revelation  President  Stephen 
L  Richards  stated: 
.  .  .  The  secret  of  life  is  to  build  on 
the  old,  the  tried  and  the  true  ....  Now 
revelation  is  the  foundation.  I  know  of 
nothing  else  so  solid  and  dependable 
....  Revelation  has  generally  come  to  us 
through  the  prophets,  although  the  great- 
est and  most  important  of  all  revelation 
came  directly  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Eternal  God  ....  Modern 
day  scripture  or  revelation  has  the  same 
validity  with  even  more  direct  proof  of 
authenticity  than  does  ancient  scripture. 
Both  emanate  from  the  same  source  .... 
We  know  the  right  through  revelation 
.  .  .  So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  learn 
the  revelations  and  live  by  them.  They 
are  true  .  .  .  (Deseiet  News,  Church  Sec- 
tion, July  2,  1955,  pp.  2-3). 
vi/ork    II Leettrig — Food  Preparation  and  Service 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  1— Lunches  and  Sandwiches 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  October  9,  1956 
\\7HEN  one  meal  a  day  must  be  lunch  box  must  go  foods  that  will 
carried    to   work    in   a   lunch  provide   a   fair   share   of   the   day's 
box,    the    homemaker    has    a    real  needs  and  be  so  inviting,  satisfying, 
challenge   to    meet,    for   into    that  and  healthful,  that  the  worker  or

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
483 
school  child  will  keep  physically  and 
mentally  fit. 
Whatever  the  packed  lunch  lacks 
in  providing  a  third  of  the  day's 
nutritional  needs  should  be  met  in 
the  other  two  meals.  With  the  use 
of  thermos  jars,  in  which  can  be 
carried  warm  soups,  stews,  or  other
