[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | March | Issue: 10 | Title: Salt Lake Stake Conference | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
was held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 5, Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon
presiding. Singing, ‘‘How firm a founda-
tion,” etc. Prayer by Sister Elizabath
Paul. Singing, solo, ‘‘Only Remembered
for What We have Done,” etc. Roll call,
minutes of previous conference read and
accepted. Counselor S. J. Cannon made an
opening address, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and referred to the noble ex-
ample and heroism of President Horne,
paid a loving tribute to her worth and re-
gretted she could not be present with the

[Column 2]
sisters with whom she had labored so long.
Reports were given from 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
13th, 14th and 15th wards. Solo, ‘‘Some
Day,” by Sister Maggie C. Hull.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde of the
General Presidency, addressed the sisters;
referred to the good condition financially,
of the Society in the stake as manifest by
the reports given, felt the change in the
Stake would be a good thing, strengthen-
ing the Church, giving the young a chance
to come forward and take part, each one
developing himself or herself, as well as
helping one another; referred to the faith-
fulness of President Horne, how the Lord
had blessed her always in giving wise
counsel; ‘:we should learn to control our-
selves, we should set good examples; this
life is a proving place for us all; be careful
of our children in all things; be careful how
we judge one another, but be charitable to
each other; we should pray for our presi-
dent.”
	Reports, 16th,17th, 18th, 19th, 20th
wards. Meeting adjourned by singing
‘‘We thank Thee, O God,” etc. Prayer
by Sister Julia C Howe.
	Afternoon session, Counselor S. J Can-
non presiding. Singing, ‘‘Now let us re-
joice.” etc. Prayer, Sister Mary A. C.
Lambert. Singing, quartette; minutes
read and accepted. — Address from Presi-
dent M Isabella Horne to the sisters, read
by Sister Annie Wells Cannon,
PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE’S
			ADDRESS.
My Beloved Sisters:
	This conference is, as you all know, the
last conference of the Relief Society of what
is now the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and
the time seems to me, most opportune to
send you my heartfelt greeting, and to
express to you some of my feelings in the
form of an address, reminiscent of our past,
relating to our present and concerning our
future as Relief Society workers
	In some respects this is a sad occasion,
for it means a parting of our ways: Here-
after while still engaged, I hope, in the
same line of work, it will be under differ-
ent  fficers and different names, and we
will meet no more in the same capacity but
hope to meet with you all agaiu in what
ever stakes you may be. I feel attached to
you, every one, with the most tender feel
ings, and shall always look upon your work
with great interest, feeling towards the new
stakes like a mother to her children as they
leave the home and begin making homes
for themselves. There is mingled in my
heart, with the sadness of this occasion,
great joy and satisfaction when I recall the
wonderful work that has been done and the
great amount of good accomplished by you,
my sisters, in thi[-] organization.
	Too much praise cannot be given you for
your untiring labors. Out of nothing but
your own energy and hard work you have
builded granaries, storehouses and meeting-
houses. By your gentle miuisterings to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the

[Column 3]
needy your great helpfulness to the bishops
in building up their wards, mingled with
your wonderful testimonies of the faith,
you are indeed rich, and great will be your
reward and many the blessings that will
come to you for your labors in these re-
spects.
	Relief Society work has been a part of my
life for the past sixty years or more, for I
attended the meetings of the first Relief
Society organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith in Nauvoo and I wish to testify to
you, my sisters, that Joseph Smith was in-
spiried of God when he effected the organ-
zation of the Relief Society, and it is one
of the most important parts of the Church.
It is so recorded in the book of ‘‘The law
of the Lord.”
	At the meeting in the Tabernacle when
the general organization was made and Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow was made president,
Brother John Taylor, then the presiding
officer of the Church, had Brother L. John
Nuttall bring to the meeting this precious
book and read from its pages to those pres-
ent, thus showing that this organization of
the sisters was of great importance, for it
was ordained by the Lord; and it is not
sufficient, my sisters, that your names are
on the books as members only, and that
occasionally you respond when called upon
with some slight donation; for we will be 
judged from the books. Zion must work
most diligently, both spiritually and prac-
tically. It is the divine purpose of this or-
ganization that we may scatter the fruits of
our labors where they are needed.
	Twenty-six years ago last December,
while spending a few days at the home of
Sister Elizabeth Howard in Big Cotton-
wood, in company with Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and others, in a
preliminary way the organization of this
stake was talked over. I recall this instance
now, because Big Cottonwood, as well as
all the wards of the new stakes south of
the city, now Granite and Jordan were a
part of this stake, and there was then some-
years later in Salt Lake Stake more than
fifty branches.
	It was on the 22nd of December, 1877,
that a special meeting was called to organ-
ize the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society.
Bishop Edward Hunter was present with
others of the breth en. Sister Eliza R.
Snow presided. It was then I was called
to be your president and from that day to
the present it has been my most earnest de-
sire to encourage the sisters, both at our
conferences, which we have always held
every three mouths, and during my visits
to the different wards, to continue in th s
great, benevol nt work with all the energy
they could command
	In looking over our present condition we
have much indeed to be thankful for. Our
reports show us to be in a very prosperous
condition. Eight of our wards own Relief
Society halls, and eight own granaries. We
have considerable means on hand, both
cash and merchandise and I am pleased to
state are all th[-] time disbursing m ans to
help others. Through these organizations
we have emigrated many people to Zion,


[Column 1]
found homes for the orphan and the friend-
less and have contributed liberally towards
the building and maintenance of the Tem-
ple and houses of worship, and have, I be-
lieve, endeavored to promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. Towards the Woman’s Build-
ing the Salt Lake Stake was assessed two
thousand dollars, and this we have more
than paid; the general treasurer states we
have given two thousand, one hundred and
fifty-six dollars and sixteen cents. Still
some of the wards are delinquent. The
amount was proportioned among the differ-
ent wards and some have paid in more than
required while others are behind. The
stake record, therefore, may look all right,
more than satisfying, yet, my sisters, do
not allow your wards to go out of the stake
in debt. See to it, each one of you, that
the required sum is made up before you be-
come a part of another stake.
	While our officers’ meetings have been
very, well attended, and great interest has
been shown, our conferences have been
rather discouraging in this respect. The
members do not seem to feel the necessity
of attending and think the society will be
all right if the president or some officer goes
so as to get instruction. Now, my sisters,
this is not right. In order to keep in
touch with the work of this organization,
and receive the benefits thereof, you must
attend your meetings and I hope the aver-
age attendance in your soeiety will here-
after improve. As it is our record shows
only, out of an enrollment of about eighteen
hundred an attendance of six hundred. I
do not wish to find fault on this occasion,
and only mention these things in a kindly
way to urge upon you greater diligence in
your future work. Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the fisrt society of sisters in this last
dispensation. He gave the sisters much
valuable instruction and predicted a great
future for the Relief Society. As soon as
possible after the location of the Saints in
these valleys, President Brigham Young
counseled tho organizing of these societies
in all the stakes of Zion and also predicted
for the sisters a great future. Today we
see these predictions fulfilled, for the Relief
Society is one of the largest and grandest
organizations of women in the world and
by the united efforts of the sisters the good
accomplished cannot be estimated. Con-
tinue, my dear sisters, in your good works
help each other with kind, friendly feelings,
with faith and prayer. Try to promote all
the interests of Zion, by sustaining home
industries and home literature. Remem-
ber the EXPONENT is the organ of our or-
ganization and enlightens you in regard to
Relief Society work. Read the Church
works and carry their teachings in your
own lives and instil them into the lives of
your children. Do not be indifferent about
storing and caring for the grain. Remem-
ber we were commanded by our beloved
leader, Brigham Young, to make this a
part of our work, and I feel to urge upon
you the necessity of attending to this matter
for I judge by the signs of the times, that
before long we will be called upon to open
our granaries, and great will be our shame
if they are empty, or if we have neglected
this duty. We were told through revelation
to save the grain against a day of famine.
Other prophecies are being fulfilled, why
should this one not? Let us be prepared,
sisters for this day, and let the women of
Zion be prepared for all emergencies and
not be like the foolish virgins with their

[Column 2]
empty lamps, but be ready and waiting in
full faith for the coming of the bridegroom.
	Now, as we are about to separate in our
work in this stake, take with you, my dear
sisters, my heartfelt blessing. May the
peace and the blessing of God be in the
hearts and habitations of all who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord.
	Your sister and colaborer in ihe Gospel,
			M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
gave some instructions and expressed her
feelings upon Relief Society work; exhorted
the sisters to live up to the principles of
the Church and felt that good was being
accomplished all over the world through
this grand society, spoke tenderly of Sister
Horne and their long acquaintance and as-
sociation together and felt she had been a
wise woman.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon who had
been long in the stake with Sister Horne,
said she had enjoyed being with the sisters,
felt that the change in the stake would be
a great benefit to the young in giving them
something to do in the Relief Society work;
she had been so many years associated in
the work that she felt sad in having the
change take place; urged all to be honest
and diligent in doing all they could to roll
on the work.
	Sister E. B. Wells paid a glowing tribute
to President Horne, referred to her mani-
fold labors for half a century and more,
she having been a member of the Society in
Nauvoo; spoke of her great activity in
many ways and many places, her travels at
home and abroad, and gave a sort of his-
tory of the Salt Lake Stake organization,
its officers a[-]d what had been accomplished
in many directions, home industries, etc.
	Solo, Sister M. C. Hull. Sister Clarissa S.
Williams said our interests were still the
same to our fellow laborers, expressed her
love for Sister Horne and many sisters she
had become acquainted with, thought there
was a great work for us to do; responsibility
is a great benefit, it causes us to make ex-
tra efforts when we otherwise would not,
thought the society would increase more
rapidly in the future, double what it had
done in the past fifty years.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings said she
missed Sister Horne, felt to rejoice in the
Gospel, referred to President Smith being
absent from us; she believed all would be
well, the change in the stake would be a
benefit to all.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder: “We have love
for one another, referred to the ordeal of
President Smith, felt she knew the influ-
ence of such conditions for she had wit-
nessed such trials herself she realized the
importance of Relief Society work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards said she remem-
bered Sister Horne many years gone by,
she had tried to take part in the society in
her young life, thought we should pray for
Sister Horne.
	Sister A. W. Cannon read a notice of a
Nurse Class to commence in September,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor.
	Sister E. B. Wells made some explana-
tions in regard to the National and Inter-
national Councils and moved that the as-
sembly send love and greeting to President
Horne, and by a rising vote express thanks
to those who had assisted in helping to
make the conference a success. Mentioned
Prof. C. J. Thomas and others who had
been helpful, Sister Horne’s counselors,
aids, secretaries and treasurers, and all who

[Column 3]
had labored so efficiently during the admin-
istration of President Horne. The motion
was seconded by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert and all on the stand and carried unan-
imously by a rising vote. Singing by a
quartette. Counselor Sarah J. Cannon an-
nounced the conference would be adjourned
forever, so far as she knew.
	Brief remarks in loving words for Presi-
dent Horne by Sister Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, who also pronounced the benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
