[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | March | Issue: 10 | Title: THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF 
			WOMEN.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The days immediately succeeding the
adjournment of the annual executive of the
National Council of Women were so full of
work that it was quite impossible to send
a report of the interesting session to you.
Now it is too late for a report, but not too
late to convey to your readers information
for which the receipt of many letters from
many quarters shows us their writers are
waiting. Neither is it too late to record
the universal pleasure among those present
at the sessions of the executive conference.
With four important exceptions, all of the
national organizations belonging to the
council were represented by their presi-
dents and delegates or proxies and alter-
nates.

	As fraternal delegates, Miss Louise Lee
Hardin, editor of the Business Woman’s
Journal and president of the Business Wo-
men’s Club, and Mrs Bradford, the presi-
dent of the Colorado State Federation of
Clubs, were present. They were given the
courtesy of even the business sessions as 
auditors, and were both invited to speak at 
an evening session. Miss Hardin is a very 
enthusiastic advocate of the organization of 
business woman. She believes that the
pecuniary interests of women may be as
much fostered by such organizations as has

[Column 2]
their intellectual culture been by the ogan-
ization of literary clubs.

	Mrs. Swift’s presidency has thus far
been marked by great energy and zeal, and
the work planned for the coming year im-
plies that the council will have little leisure
until after the next triennial.
	The election of representatives for the
Berlin quinquennial was of primary impor-
tance. Prior to the election, Mrs. Swift
announced that she had asked the Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw to act as her proxy.
Although Mrs. Swift expects to be present
in Berlin, she felt it desirable to have a 
proxy on the ground so that, if for any 
reason she was not able to be present at
every session, the council should not go
unrepresented; and, moreover, she felt it 
desirable to have a proxy with whom she
could confer upon all matters upon which
the council will be called upon to act in its
executive capacity. The election resulted 
as follows:
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was elected by
acclamation the first delegate.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper her alternate.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, the representa-
tive in the National Council of the Florence
Crittenden Mission, and the vice-president
of the American Council is the other delegate.
	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, the president
of the National Association of Jewish Wo-
men, was chosen to be her alternate.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson was elected to
be the “speaking representative’’ of the
American Council.
	Mrs: Isabella Charles Davis to be her
alternate.
	A word of explanation of the phrase
“speaking representative’’ seems desirable.
At the Dresden session of the International
Executive last August, it was decided that
the second public meeting of the council at
the quinquennial at Berlin, which will oc-
cur on the evening of June 9th, shall be
devoted to the presentation of the national
councils constituting the International, and
that the program shall consist of an address
necessarily limited to six minutes in length,
by one representative from each of the affil-
iated councils. It was ordered that each
speaker should be invited to make a con-
densed statement of the characteristic fea-
tures of council work in her own country
and of the degree and manner in which the
work of her national council fosters the 
spirit of internationalism.
	Some criticism has been made of the time
limit set for these addresses, but with per-
haps twenty affiliated councils to hear from,
a program allowing six minutes to each 
will afford two hours of steady speaking.
Allowing for the opening and the closing 
and the necessary intervals between the
speeches, although the management may
be perfect and this inevitable loss of time
be reduced to a minimum, the entire pro-
gram will cover two hours and a half. To
be fair, each council must be permitted the
same time. Should it be urged that the
oldest councils, or the councils having the
largest membership, or those representing 
the largest territory, should be given more
time, one must be reminded that each and
all of these suggestions are opposed to the
council idea, the abounding value of which
rests in the fact, that the council respects
neither geographical extent nor numerical
strength, and that it is the desire to value
every council with exclusive reference to
the contribution of what is essentially char-
acteristic in its nationality.


[Column 1]
	I have few times heard the remark, “It
is hardly worth while to cross the ocean for
the sake of speaking six minutes.” No
doubt there have been words uttered in
much less than six minutes that have cost
much more in time and money than will
the journey to Berlin cost any of the par-
ticipants in the quinquennial of the council;
but no one who considers the program of
June 9th, as initiated above, from the point
of view that those who take part in it come
from their respective countries simply “to
speak six minutes,” is as yet imbued with
the council idea. One goes, not for what
she herself is to say, but for what all the
others who come up to Berlin will say. One
goes to contribute a single facet to the dia-
mond, a single sentence to the speech which
all will make, a single aspect to the whole
which I call internationalism.
	One other very important matter bearing
upon the quinquennial and the internation-
al congress was decided. The local com-
mittee, of which Frau Hedwig Heyl is
chairman, has determined to decorate the
corridors of the halls where the meetings
are to be held with a collection which will
represent the work and progress in art of
the women of the different countries includ-
ed in the international council. A special
committee has been formed to take charge
of this exhibit, of which Frau Margarethe
Keyner is the chairman. The exhibit is
to include the following classes of objects.
	“First: Portraits of characters who have
rendered real and great service on behalf of
the Woman’s Movement, either as propa-
gandists or as practical workers.
	“Second: Works of art, such as busts,
statuettes, and paintings which illustrate
woman’s work, especially with regard to
decorative purposes.”
	To each country is assigned a definite
amount of wall space in the corridors Be-
sides this, the committee states that some
decorative pictures and objects in plaster
can be placed in the refreshment room,
“not more, however than six for any coun-
try.”
	To take charge of the representation of
the artistic work of American women, a
special committee was appointed, which
consists of Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, head
of the department of art in the American
council, and Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, the
only sculptor among the American patrons
of the international council. This commit-
tee has already begun its work, and the
known skill and taste of its members, to-
gether with their reputation for doing well
whatever they undertake, is a guarantee
that if the artists to whom they apply make
cordial response, the place which is assigned
will be creditably filled.
	A most interesting report was brought in
by Mrs. Hollister and Mrs. Quinlan con-
cerning the representation ot the American
council at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition. Although disappointment was, per-
haps, felt in some quarters when it was first
announced that the board of lady managers
of the exposition would admit no organiza-
tion into their building, it seems from every
point of view to be much more desirable
that, the council shall have quarters in the

[Column 2]
administration building, where the United
States government has granted it space.
Mrs. Sparklin, of St Louis, is the chairman
of the local committee in charge, and Mrs.
Swift, who went to St. Louis after the ad-
journment of the council executive to give
personal attention to the matter, has great
confidence that the council will have every
opportunity for adequate representation.
It may be well here again to say that all
national organizations and all local councils
affiliated with the national council a[-]e
asked, through their respective officers, to
correspond directly with Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, whose address is 507 Kirby Av-
enue west, Detroit, Michigan, concerning
its representation, since it is desired that all
affiliated bodies shall have an equal oppor-
tunity to share the benefits of the council
headquarters.
	Mr, A. S. Ford, the editor and publisher
of “Madame”(which by written vote of the
national council had already been adopted
as its organ), attended one session and was
received with great cordiality by the execu-
tive, whose members see in this new me-
dium of publicity a means of reaching large
numbers of women who are not members
of any of the affiliated organizations, or in-
deed of progressive societies of any kind.
As a means of communication among its
own members, particularly its official mem-
bers, the Bulletin will be continued, edited
as heretofore, by the corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, who made an
admirable summary of her year’s work in a
report which pleased both by its wit and by
the amount of work which it evinced.
	Miss Jessie Ackerman, the chairman of
the press committee, will have charge of
the two pages that are given in “Madame”
each month to conned interests, and in her
official capacity will organize also a syn-
dicate for furthering council interests.
	Since the adjournment of the council ex-
ecutive, I have received from Frau Stritt
the list which it was hoped would arrive
in time to be reported upon at the execu-
tive. I refer to the list of American women
to whom official invitations have been is-
sued to attend the international congress,
which is to follow the council. This in-
cludes one hundred and eight names of per-
sons, about one-half of whom have been
nvited to speak, and the other “to partici-
pate,” which means to take part in the
open discussion which will follow formal
papers. This indication of the generous
attitude of the German committee toward
the American council will be much appre-
ciated by our women everywhere. The
number of official invitations sent to this
country largely exceeds what I had antici-
pated as possible. The only ones of the
list of nominees sent over by the American
council to the German committee not in-
vited are those constituting a third list,
which were very tardily sent in some time
after the first and even the second list had
been forwarded It is to be hoped that
many women who have thought that it
would be impossible for them to go will
now, upon the receipt of their official invit-
ations, reconsider the matter and decide to
accept an opportunity which will afford many

[Column 3]
privileges besides meeting with the women
workers of other nations.
	I take this opportunity to ask those of
my compatriots who have received such of-
ficial invitation, kindly to let me know
whether they will be able to accept it, and,
if so, about what time they intend to sail.
This request is made because of a plan that
is being worked out, by which it is hoped
some advantages and concessions may be
secured from railway and steamboat com-
panies for members of the council and the
congress. Now that the invitations must
already have been received, I should like
our women to notify me of their intention
before March 21st.
	Since my last communication to the Expo-
nent two more councils have come into affil-
iation, that of Austria; which, having been
organized in 1902, applied for affiliation at
a meeting of its executive convened to con-
sider the matter on January 8th, 1904. In
the first week of February, Froken Gina
Krog, who has served as the honorary vice-
president of the national council for Nor-
way since 1899, had the great happiness to
see her labors culminate iu the organization
of a national council for her country under
her presidency, which also immediately
voted for affiliation with the international
council.
	It will interest the readers of the Wo-
man’s Exponent to know that the agenda for
the quinquennial of the council will contain
a proposition already indorsed by ten coun-
cils, for placing the advocacy of political
equality upon the council program for pro-
paganda.		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	President of the International Council
					of Women.
Indianapolis Ind., March 1st, 1904.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
