[Vol22 | February 1935 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) LESSON VII GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Those Who Serve the Lord.
Here is great comfort for those who serve the Lord: "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprighily, and to the sanctification of the church." (D. And C. 100:15.) It is frequently said that rain falls on the just and the unjust alike, and that sorrow visits the homes of both those who serve the Lord and those who do not. Let it be admitted that there is at least partial truth in the statement. The just, however, have the assurance that all things will work together for their good, while the unjust have no hope of reward. 2. The Lord has said: "Whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation." (D. And C. 95:1.) Again: "They who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down thew lives for my sake yet shall they partake of all this glory." (D. And C. 101:35.) But: "Those who will not endure chastening, but deny me, cannot be sanctified." (D. And C. 101:5.) 3. God's promises never fail.
There are untold numbers of Latterday Saints who testify that adversity has often been a source of great blessing to them, and that trying conditions often prove to be a source of strength.
Great comfort arises from the belief that no matter how dark the hour, or distressing the circumstance, God will bring all things together for the benefit of those who love him.
There is probably no greater source of solace in times of trial. 4, Lives unattended by sorrow are like photographs taken in the full glare of the sun,?flat and characterless. In a beautiful life, like a beautiful photograph, the high lights are accentuated by shadows. 5. Leave Judgment with the Lord.
Many people are prone to pass judgment.
Almost without restraint they discuss the merits and demerits, particularly the latter, of others about whom they commonly know but little.
Judgments are usually unjust and often injurious both to the judged and to those who sit in judgment. 6. It is evident without argument that fair judgments cannot be rendered in the absence of full knowledge of all facts in the case. In civil court procedure judgments are deferred until both sides to the controversy have been given ample opportunity to present whatever evidence appears to be relevant.
After this has been done the evidence is fully weighed, and only then is the verdict rendered.
Judges of civil courts are chosen primarily because of their supposed wisdom, fairness, and ability to differentiate between proper and improper conduct. But even under such conditions, errors in judgment are not unknown. 7.
Little wonder then that judgment LESSON DEPARTMENT rendered in the absence of full information, particularly if influenced by bias and envy, are characteristically wrong. The Latter-day Saints are warned against conduct of this nature. The Lord says: "Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay." (D. And ome ZS:23.) 8.
Spirit and Element.
There is much food for thought in the following: "Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy.' (D. And C. 93:33, 34.) 9. The first statement, namely, that man is a spirit, should answer once and for all time the muted question among certain materialistic investigators?both scientific and religious?as to whether or not man ig more than merely a physical being, actuated solely by mechanical impulses and entirely devoid of spiritual stimuli.
Elsewhere the Lord has said that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. And C. 88:15.) That mortal man is a dual person?composed of both body and spirit?it is thus plainly evident. The Lord makes the further illuminating statement: "All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; we cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter."" (D. And C. 131:7, 8.) 10. The statement that: "The elements are eternal" answers all questions as to the ultimate duration of what is commonly called matter, although, of course, it does not describe its nature or composition. 11. Finally, the quoted statement goes on to say that man can receive a fulness of joy only when the spirit and the body are inseparably connected. It is little wonder that the resurrection from the dead is spoken In of as the redemption. (See D. And C. 88:16-19.) 12.
Knowledge and Intelligence. In bold contrast with the widespread sectarian notion that in the next world men will be placed in two classes?the saved and the damned? the Lord gives the following: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. And C. 130:18, 19.) 13. Justice, of course, demands just such a provision. It would be manifestly unfair if devout individuals who had exhibited a life-long devotion to the Lord should receive no more reward in the resurrection than those who had been scarcely less than indifferent.
Fairness demands that all forms of industry be commensurately rewarded.
That men be rewarded in conformity with their deeds is in strict accord with every law of the universe, wherein causes are invariably followed by similar and compensating effects.
Anything short of this would be a violation of the fundamental principles of right and justice. 14. Moreover, if men were to be separated into only two classes in the resurrection, and particularly if the doctrine of unmerited rewards were to apply, a considerable part of the incentive for right living would disappear from the earth.
While it is theoretically true that men should live Christian lives merely for the reason that to do so is right, yet incentive is. A powerful factor in human conduct.
Very few individuals would attempt to climb a mountain if it were not believed that a more comprehensive view would be obtained by so doing. Likewise, few students 118 would undergo the requirements of a long period of college training if it were not believed that benefits would accrue therefrom.
Human efforts are prompted principally by hope of reward; destroy this hope, and effort would largely disappear. The ill effects of such a condition are immeasurable. The above statement, therefore, like all others emanating from the same source, is in strict accord with the wisdom, justice, and love of God for the human soul. 15. Blessings Predicated upon Obedience to Law.
Perhaps no statement in Mormion theology more fully illustrates the wisdom of God in dealing with his children than the following, given to Joseph Smith slightly more than one year before the time of his martyrdom: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated?And when we obtain any blessings from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21.) Some three months later, the Lord restated the same truth in the following language: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shail abide the law which was appointed for the blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted before the foundation of the world." (D. And C. 132:5.) 16.
These statements, perhaps above all others in Christian scripture, emphasize the basic importance of right living. On the other hand, they negate for all time the widespread sectarian belief that endless blessings await those who merely call upon the name of God and accept Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world. The fact is that before man can receive any blessing his conduct must conform with the law upon which it is predicated. Accordingly, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there is no such thing as blessing incommensurate with conduct. As Deity has stated, this condition is not only irrevocable but was instituted before the foundations of the world. 17.
Those of the Latter-day Saints who hope to find place in the Celestial glory should ponder carefully the following: "For he who is not able to abide the law of the celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory." (D. And C. 88:22.) Plainly, therefore, those who enter this glory must have shown by their works that they are prepared to live it.
What shall become of those who for example, have not brought themselves to conform with such elemental principles as the Word of Wisdom, the Law of Tithing, and the observance of the Sabbath Day, we of course, must not judge. The Lord has declared, however, that all blessings are predicated upon compliance with the laws that produce them. Moreover, the Lord has said that there is no escape from this truth;?it is irrevocable. 18. Should We Forget. The Lord might have had the present conditions in mind when he uttered the following: '"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments. Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled, I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing.
Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled.' (D. And C. 58:30-33.) 19.
Only recently the writer of this article sat at a dinner table with a formerly active member of the Church.
Almost from the outset he offered criticism of the First Presidency and other officials of the Church. He declared himself in favor of the widespread sale of alLESSON DEPARTMENT coholic beverages and admitted that he himself occasionally indulged in them.
Later in the meal he drank freely of strong coffee and firmly announced his belief that the Church has no right to interfere with "personal habits" of its members. 20. His, like many others, was a clear case. He had evidently failed to heed the counsel of the Lord and then had turned to criticism thereof. He was evidently not acquainted with the scripture quoted above, nor with the following: "J the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do n?t what. I say, ve have no promise." (D. And C. 82:10.) 21. The following is a pathetic reminder, if not a rebuke, to those who forget the Lord in times of prosperity and well-being: "In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me.' Then with characteristic sympathy for those who stray from the path of rectitude, the Lord continues: "Notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them. I will not utterly 119 cast them off; and in the day of wrath I will remember mercy." (D. And C. 101:8, 9.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1.
Have members of the class relate personal experiences in which apparently undesirable conditions have eventually worked together for their good. 2. In what way is rendering of judgment often injurious to those who judge? Why should judgment be left with the Lord? 3. Why in your opinion is it impossible for the spirit of man to receive a fulness of joy without the body? 4, In what way has the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards injured the cause of Christianity? 5. In what ways are incentives conducive to good conduct?
Give illustrations. 6. Why is it necessary that law must be obeyed before the blessing is received? 7. Why does infraction of law lead to criticism thereof?