There were departments where recipes for different foods were interchanged. The exhibition was combined with a fine social event and refreshments served at the small tables. The stake officers were hostesses to more than 300 ward workers. An Interesting Letter (Concluded from page 110) interesting. The number you name —sixty-five thousand women—who are taking up this study, is deeply impressive. If you have the opportunity, by radio or otherwise, of coming in touch with them, please give them my very kindest greetings, and tell them that I wish them well in all their study and all their good works.
With kindest regards, Believe me, dear Mrs. Sorenson, Faithfully yours, (Signed) Laura Richards.  
First Counselor MRS.
JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD
Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 


VOL. XXII FEBRUARY, 1935 No. 2
The Prophet's Admonition "New occasions teach new duties, Building up the morale of the people.
Time makes ancient good uncouth; They must upward still and onward Who would keep abreast of truth.' food for the physical body. The ?Lowell. WHEN the Relief Society was first organized, the paramount thing in the minds of its officers was "searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants." The first admonition of the Prophet has during the years since he organized the Society been carefully and wonderfully carried out. Now that the Government is taking care of most of the physical needs of the people, the organization will have more time and energy to heed more fully the second admonition of the prophet, to "assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." "This Society," said the Prophet, at a later meeting, "is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls."
Building up the morale of the people, giving them a desire for the things of the spirit is quite as vital as food for the physical body. The Church offers educational and spiritual opportunities that are not appreciated by many.
They let their children grow up without the training the auxiliaries and Priesthood Quorums give.
They do not realize that they are handicapping their children by their carelessness. A prominent business man recently said, "There is only one thing I hold against my parents.
They were kind and loving, they gave us opportunities to attend school, but they did not encourage us to attend the auxiliary organizations. As a result, I cannot appear as well as others in the community in  public affairs. I have not been trained to express myself before others. I lack the poise that comes from such training."