[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Of | Author: Richards]
[Of Royal Birth Kate Richards]

"Well," she said slowly, "I wouldn't mind, if you married someone I knew." "I'd have to know him, too," LaRue playfully. In love with him." She scarcely caught Connie's tiny whisper. "I think you already are, Aunt LaRue!" But before she could speak, Connie said loudly: "Aunt LaRue, I don't gossip, now do I?" LaRue didn't quite understand the question. But she praised the child. "You've improved a very great deal, darling. I'm very glad." "Well, " asked Connie, a lingering doubt in her tone, "do you think said "I'd have to be THE SILVER LEASH it would be awful if I told you some gossip?" 'Then, as LaRue began to shake her head, she added brightly, "Some gossip you'd like to hear?" LaRue wasn't quite sure. "I wouldn't want to hear it, Connie, if it was something that would hurt someone. 'That sort of gossip is cruel." "But it isn't cruel," cried Connie eagerly, bouncing up and down until her brown braids whirled. "It's something terribly nice. About Gladys and Dr. Alan." ARUE hid her face in the clothes closet so that Connie could not see how it glowed at the mention of Alan's name. But she came steadily out and met Connie's childish gaze, though her heart was chilled. She said definitely: "No, Connie, even if it's very, very nice, I can't let you tell me." She wanted to ask if Gladys and Alan had made up, if Grandie and Herb were going ahead on the plans for the house in Maple Park. But she pressed her lips tightly, still shaking her head. "I can't go back on what I said, Connie. It's wrong to encourage gossip. Sometimes it's even cruel." It would be cruel to listen to Connie's gossip about the future plans of Gladys and Alan. She didn't want to think about them. Connie got slowly down off the bed. "All right, Aunt LaRue." She walked slowly to the door. "IT still wish you didn't have to pack." 'To hide her tears, she rushed outside to play with Atlast. The hours dragged until time for the bus. Although Herb would have driven her to the station, LaRue insisted on calling for a cab. It would be much easier, saying goodby to the family at home. 523 She hid the hot tears on her lashes as she walked out to the cab. 'The driver who had brought her to the house a few weeks before, greeted her with a smile as he put her luggage into the back of the taxi. His face was now smooth-shaven, minus the beard he'd worn to the festival. He guided the cab skillfully along the almost completed highway, and LaRue saw that the huge machinery had moved miles into the distance. The gray artery into Fivelakes was wide and smooth. Like a ribbon tying my heart to those I love, she thought whimsically, and knew that the days would seem long and lonely until she returned for a visit. The old house on the knoll seemed to smile down on her as they passed it, and she saw the beginnings of its rejuvenation in fresh lumber and paint. She stared at the giant mountains, her mind photographing every peak so that memory could not dim them. She wondered that she had ever found them cold, forbidding. When the driver set her bags inside the station she looked around at the green-plastic covered counter, at the Hopi Indian dolls nudging neighboring Spanish senoritas for a place on the shelves. The man behind the counter was no longer frightening in his heavy dark beard. He was clean-shaven, and his white jacket was spotless. They chatted for a few minutes, and he told her that her bus was on time. She had only fifteen minutes to wait. He gave her a fresh glass of ice water, and she sipped it, watching the hands of the clock move slowly into place.