[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The New | Author: Nibley]
Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE First Presidency announced, in May 1937, that a new mission would be formed in the eastern part of the United States and Canada, to be known as the New England Mission. It was to comprise the states of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, to be taken from the Eastern States Mission, and Maine, Vermont, and New Hampshire, with the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, from the Canadian Mission. On August 2, 1937, Dr. Carl F. Eyring of Provo, Utah, was appointed president of the new mission. In September 1937, President Eyring, accompanied by Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the New England Mission. The headquarters was established in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a commodious mission home was purchased. 'Twenty-two missionaries were transferred from the Eastern States Mission to the new mission, and four from the Canadian Mission. 'The work of proselyting was thus continued with vigor, in a section of country in which Latter-day Saint missionaries had labored for over one hundred years. President Carl F. Eyring served with success as mission president until July 1939, when he was succeeded by Elder Levi Edgar Young, of the First Council of Seventy, one of the General Authorities of the Church. Ee ae scuicanomngnee wasnt aun 7" ~ eet ee Courtesy, Massachusetts Department of Commerce UNITED STATES FRIGATE "CONSTITUTION" (OLD IRONSIDES) in Boston Navy Yard, Bunker Hill Monument in Background Page 506 THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION 507 Courtesy, Vermont Development Commission MAPLE "SUGARING OFF" SEASON IN VERMONT A curious springtime sight in New England is the gathering of the sap from the sugar maples, which cover the rolling hillsides. 'Thirty-five to forty gallons of sap are required to make one gallon of maple syrup. The sap is collected in large tanks and drawn by sled over the snow. —- President Young presided until January 1942, when he was succeeded by Elder William H. Reeder of Ogden. During his last month in the mis. Sion, President Young purchased part of the Henrv W. Longfellow estate, and the. Old Longfellow home on Brattle Strect, to be used as a residence for the mission president. President Reeder served as mission president until May 1947, when he was succeeded by Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, one of the General Authorities of the Church. President Young served until March 1951, when he was succeeded by Elder J. Howard Maughan of Logan. President Maughan served until July 1955, when he was succeeded by Elder Junius M. Jackson of Salt Lake City. President Jackson served until June 1959, when he was succeeded by Dr. Edgar B. Brossard who presides at the present time. On March 31, 1959, there were 5,899 members of the Church in the New England Mission, located in thirtyeight branches. Forty-eight, Relief Society organizations, with 878 members, were reported in December 1958. Margaret. R. Jackson formerly was president of the New England Mission Relief Society. The new president is Laura P. Brossard. Note:: The cover for this. Magazine is a color view of the Minuteman Statue at Concord, Massachusetts. See also "Recipes From the New England, Mission," by Margaret R. Jackson, page 518. "A" Is for Apron Parr I Ilene H. Kingsbury Hey, old woman, with the long white Apron! What are you holding in it, your hands all bundled up inside? Why do you walk along the shade of the poplars and pick your way so stoutly? Hey, what are you thinking of at all? UDGED from a memory, and N rudely, to say the least, this aged woman, Clarissa by name, slackened her pace, squared her shoulders, and, for an instant, felt the tug of a remembered burden in her apron. And she thought... How cold are your shoulders when it is twenty degrees below zero! How stiff are your knees with frozen fixity as you bend to push a cart! How numb is your thinking as the chill from the great river makes you and it solidify, if you stand still a minute! And that Mississippi did stop moving last night. It became a bridge of ice. Not just to hold a man and his dog, but to support a man's wagon and his oxen. It held itself in check around a half-circle of bend, its flowing and rushing, its ceaseless toil to the sea halted in the deadly grip of winter. Yesterday, the first Wednesday in February 1846, was the coldest Clarissa could remember, and today, the prairie held its own for frigid bleakness. Mostly because were not on the move, was it arctic. The camp was nine miles out from their city called "Beautiful" by those who loved her. Quite formally on the frontier maps, it Page 508 they » was printed Nauvoo. They named this spot a camp, not a settlement, expecting to go on as soon as their homeless, exiled band could be. Organized to head West. In that direction they would push to other successive noonings, washdays, and seed plantings for the late starters. There would be the tender laying away in the earth of those who no longer walked beside them. There would be repair stations and the one night's lodge resembling an outpost of civilization — next morning only camp ashes to show the short tarrying there. But this camp on Sugar Creek — sweet of name — bitter of memory!