[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I should like to pay a tribute to Preston Nibley, our Assistant Church Historian, for the excellent articles he contributes about the missions of the Church. I read them with much interest each month. His article about the Central States Mission in March 1959 was exceptionally interesting because of a recent visit my husband and I made there. Our party met with Brother Dyer in the mission home and he bore a strong testimony of the gospel. We did not, however, have the privilege of visiting Adam-ondi-Ahman, so I was happy to see the picture of this sacred spot.
—Aletha Lowe Handy
Franklin, Idaho

How splendid is every article, story, and poem in the June issue of the Magazine. And how good to get a glimpse of 'Cleve. Land, Ohio, on the cover! I correspond with a poet friend there, but had never pictured the city as it is. "The Handcart Child" by Orvene B. Holman gave me special pleasure, as did 'For Grandmothers Who Baby Sit" by Camilla Woodbury Judd, and "The Humming Bird" by Wlnona Frandsen 'Thomas. I so loved "Country Summer" by Rodello Hunter — it took me back to when my twin sister and I were seventeen. '"'Green-Willow Days" by Shirley Sealy is wonderful, and 'The Ladder of Love" by Margaret Russell is poignantly sweet and strong and beautifully given. I am grateful to Vernessa M. Nagle for "The Pansy-Picker,"' and to Gwen Marler Barney for the truth so lyrically expressed in "Where the Gull Goes."
—Mabel Law Atkinson
Dayton, Idaho

"The Ladder of Love" by Margaret Russell in the June Magazine appeals to us as a gem of a story, beautifully written, and expressing deep and fundamental truth,
—L. Paul Roberts and Dorothy J. Roberts
Salt Lake City, Utah

I do not want to miss a single copy of the Magazine — especially the one for July, as I am interested in the continued story "The Silver Leash" (by Beatrice R. Parsons). I particularly enjoy the beautiful poems and also every article in the Magazine.
—Mrs. L. J. Dozier
Odessa, Texas

What fine essays and what excellent writing — "Green-Willow Days," by Shirley Sealy, and "The Pansy-Picker," by Vernessa M. Nagle, in the June issue of the Magazine. Such interesting subjects and such fine writing make the Magazine a delight to me.
—Katherine S. Staples
Kanosh, Utah

The June Magazine is outstanding, from its pretty front cover to the luscious strawberry and sugar advertisement on the back. Florence Jepperson Madsen's tribute to fathers, and her own father, is touching. One of my friends up here said she lived next door to the Jeppersons, and in the article Brother Jepperson was depicted very truly. Christie Lund Coles' story ("One of Them') about the brave little crippled mother is so touching. 1 have always liked Christie's stories. I could mention each story and poem in the June - Magazine, for they are all first class, and I am proud to have mine among them ("Peach-Tree Poem'').
—Frances C. Yost
Bancroft, Idaho

Thank you very much for placing my hobby feature in The Relief Society Magazine (May 1959). I have taken the Magazine for thirty-five or forty years now I read it with a magnifying glass and appreciate it very much and wish it continued success.
—Maggie R. Wood
Fielding, Utah