[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: How Can | Author: Spaftod]
[How Can We Efiectively Delegate Responsibility? Belle S Spaftod]

culties, "Well, at least they can never say of Henry Moyle that he never tried." 'That statement could well be the epitaph of his life. With faith and vision and the courage of his convictions, he counts "All that is not infinite, too small; and all that is not eternal, too short." May the membership of the Church now uphold with their faith and prayers the newly organized First Presidency which now includes Henry D. Moyle, and be willing to follow their counsel in righteousness! > We may sometimes find satisfaction in sharing our material wealth with others. But far greater satisfaction comes from sharing ourselves, our itme, our energy, our affection, and particularly in imparting to others our testimony of God, the power of God unto salvation, the knowledge we possess of God and his purposes. Are truly converted, we realize that ' When we this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). —Elder Henry D. Moyle, Annual Conference Report, April 1957, page 32. How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility? Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society (Address Delivered at the National Association for Practical Nurse Education, April 29, 1959) N extending the invitation of the program committee to speak to you on the subject "How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility?" Miss Hilda 'Torrup wrote (and I quote from her letter): These people carry a heavy responsibility since many of them are officers of an association numbering from one thousand to five thousand members. They are burdened with such responsibilities as loyalty, unity, the responsibility of programming for many divisions within a state, the problems of getting and holding members, in fact, all of the things that make an organization go. With this statement as my guide, I shall attempt to bring to you a few ideas based on my experience in presiding over an international woman's organization with a wide variety of activities, and manned by volunteer workers, as are your organizations. 'This latter fact will color much that I say, since in dealing with volunteer workers, special problems are posed. 'The paid worker must meet the requirements of his job or he is discharged. He is primarily controlled in his service by his employer, who pays his salary. The volunteer worker gives of his time and talent purely for the satisfactions accruing therefrom, and is primarily controlled in his service by his own will to serve. Every organization exists for specific purposes. You are more familiar than am I with the purposes of your state practical nursing organizations, and their respective subdivisions. It would seem to me, however, that they must exist to promote practical nursing as a profession; to promote the interests and well-being of the licensed practical nurse as an individual and collectively, within the respective communities; to interpret to the community the place and importance of the licensed practical nurse in caring for the sick. 'They should expand the horizon of the nurse and increase her usefulness. 'They should serve as her servant and speak for her on matters related to practical nursing. If such values accrue to the nurse and her profession from the organization, one would think there would be no nurse within the community who would not wish to identify herself with the organization as a member. The problem lies in the fact, I believe, that some nurses do not recognize and appreciate the values to be found within the organization. Of course, there are always a few persons who are content to be consumers and not producers, who are ready to benefit from the work of the organization without making any contribution to it. There will always be a few such persons, but Page 501 502 we must take satisfaction in the fact that they are greatly in the minority. In building membership the task becomes largely one of helping the individual nurse to see the functions of the organization, the values to be found within it for her as an individual, and as a member of a professional group, as well as to see her individual responsibility toward the organization. 'This is a job of interpretation. Interpretation is most effectively — accomplished through personal contact among the knowledgeable person, the enthusiastic converted person, and the person whose membership enlistment is sought. It is also accomplished through publicity, newspayer articles, circular letters, the distribution of organization literature. It may be done through open sessions of conferences and conventions. It may be greatly helped through the support of training schools and hospitals. I commend to those of you who would build membership, the appointment of an enthusiastic, persuasive membership comunittee. LSO, I remind you it is human nature to want to be identified with a live organization, a going concern, one that holds attention, confidence, and respect within the community. No one wants to belong to a struggling, weak, ineffective, half-dead organization. The quality of the organization, the manner in which it is functioning, have tremendous bearing on membership. It has been said often that an organization is no stronger than its leadership. 'Therefore, it is of first importance that an able administrator be chosen to head the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 organization, one on whom _ the membership 'can rely to conduct affairs so that the organization will accomplish the purposes set for it. A recognition on the part of the administrator of her trusteeship, her moral responsibility to manage the business of the organization properly, is fundamental to good leadership. The leader is given certain authority. The acceptance of * authority involves its concomitant responsibility, and, it follows, that administrative activity also includes accountability, or the necessity of being ready to answer for entrusted powers. A person who does not recognize these things and who is not willing to conform to them should never accept administrative office. Administrative proficiency has its roots in the personal qualifications of the administrator. 'The able leader is one who attracts and holds attention, and has the capacitv to win others to the cause in which she believes and for which she ls working. She has clearness of vision and vigor of action.