[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 53 | General Feature | Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

56 Notes From the Field Swiss Mission Relief Society Holds Convention Zollikofen, Switzerland, June 17-18, 1966 Front row, standing, left to right, beginning fourth from the left: Christian Abbuhl, of the Bern-Luzern District; Hermine Trauffer, wife of the Temple President Walter E. Trauffer; Annamarie Felder, First Counselor, Swiss Mission Relief Society; Johanna Wysard, Bern-Luzern District Relief Society President; Frida Hubacher, Second Counselor; Ann Birsfelder, SecretaryTreasurer., Near the back, center: President Rendell N. Mabey of the Swiss Mission and Rachel W. Mabey, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society. At the right, in the front row, second and third from the right: Emma Bertha Gutmann (eighty-two); Julia Grossen (eighty-four). These two women are faithful members, residing in Biel. Sister Mabey reports: "The picture was taken in front of the Swiss Temple in Zollikofen. This is the Bern-Luzern District, the only one now in the mission. Every other branch is now included in the Swiss Stake." "About eighty Relief Society members attended. Some very inspirational] talks were given by the sisters and by representatives of the district presidency. Then the group was divided for class work. The meals were prepared and served by the different branches. A very lovely concert was presented in the evening by the Singing Mothers, with President Mabey as speaker. "The next morning was an interesting one. Some of our good brethren had put up booths in the cultural hall, and Saturday morning the sisters were busy decorating the booths and arranging the displays of handwork that had been made for the occasion. After lunch, the bazaar went into full swing, and the sisters were happy with buying and selling, and many women from the neighborhood were present. In the evening there was food for all, and an interesting short program concluded the activities."