[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 46 | General Feature | Agnes Kunz Dansie, Versatile Artist of Handicraft | ]
45 Agnes Kunz Dansie — Versatile Artist of Handicraft Agnes Kunz Dansie, Herriman, Utah, learned to quilt when she was fourteen years old. Her pieced quilts in Sunburst pattern and Double Wedding Ring are reminiscent of ''economy craftsmanship" of early days in the mountain valleys. Later, her satin quilts, in exquisite design and with fine and even stitchery, have won awards at many State and County Fairs. She has made more than one hundred quilts. To her skill in quiltmaking, Sister Dansie has added such crafts as crocheting, Knitting, embroidery, making rugs and decorative pillows, baby bonnets and bootees, and sewing aprons and other clothing. As a sort of "'side hobby," as she calls it, she painted some lovely landscapes. Articles of her handicraft adorn the homes of her eight children and thirty-six grandchildren. She has now begun to make gifts for the great-grandchildren. She has served for twenty-three continuous years as Relief Society Magazine representative for her ward, and has never achieved less than a one hundred per cent record. One year she secured 118 per cent subscriptions. She is genealogical representative for her family and rejoices in record keeping and temple work. An admonition she gives for all Relief Society women, and for people everywhere: "When you are given a responsibility, do your best!" 46 = Synopsis: Julie Rideghaven, who has been attending school in California, is called back to her home in Sydney, Australia, because her fiancé Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. Julie's friend Betz Condon accompanies her, and the girls go with members of the Ridgehaven family on an expedition to search for Ron. Also in the party are Aunt Isabelle, who has been very ill; and Wally Ridgehaven, who becomes increasingly interested in Betz Condon, The women take over the housekeeping duties at the station, and the men set out in search of Ron. Julie is concerned over the strange actions of Ron's kelpie, and she feels that the dog knows something about Ron's strange disappearance. W Julie slept restlessly. She was fully awake standing at the window, as the first rays of the sun flickered through the branches of the big gum tree. The men had already gone. She heard them leave before she was out of bed. She bent her head against the window sill, a prayer in her heart. "Julie...." Betz sat up in her bunk. "Please put your dressing gown on. It's cold as Christmas in here."