[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 64 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message "As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass..." Alice | Colton Smith]
63 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 79—"As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass.... Thou Shalt Forgive Him, Until Seventy Times Seven (D&C 98:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To teach us that we should never withhold forgiveness. It was the hour of agony, of crucifixion, of cruel death. To watch him die was tragedy to the few who stood by the Son of God. Only days before crowds had strewn his path with palm branches and hailed him "King of Israel." Now, forsaken by that fickle throng, condemned by the leaders of his people, he hung in anguish between two thieves. Then said Jesus, 'Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34). In the midst of his torture, he was filled with compassion for those inflicting on him physical death. He concentrated not on his own pain but upon the needs of those who trespassed against him. In him charity never failed. Centuries later and now triumphant, the resurrected Lord, still counseling forgiveness, said, "... Of you it is required to forgive all men... Let God judge... For he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin" (D&C 64:10, 11, 9). In August 1833, the saints were soon to know persecution and death. In preparing them, the Lord said, "As oft as thine enemy 64 repenteth of the trespass... Thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven" (D&C 98:40). Someone hurts our feelings. Shall we strike back? Shall we nurture a grudge? Someone gossips about us. Shall we return slander for slander? Someone takes advantage of us, cheats us, ruins our business or career. What shall we do? God is the same "yesterday, today, and forever' (D&C 20: 12). Long ago in Judaea, Solomon said, ''Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth"' (Proverbs 24:17). During his earthly ministry, the Lord taught, "Love your enemies" and "do good to them that hate you" (Matthew 5:44). In a memorable speech to the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, '"We have not yet forgiven them [sinners] seventy times seven, as our Savior directed; perhaps we have not forgiven them once" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, The Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, 1956, p. 238). All of us are sinners in some degree. All of us need forgiveness from our Father in heaven. We should, therefore, pray daily: "forgive us our trespasses, aS we forgive those who trespass against us" (Joseph Smith's Inspired Version of Matthew 6:13). In cultivating forgiveness and understanding of others, we open our souls to the greatness of love and, thereby, become eligible for Lesson Department the forgiveness the Lord has promised us. Only then can we truly become generous, loving, hospitable, helpful, good neighbors, and loving, tolerant, patient friends. Forgetting our selfish interests, we can seek out our enemies, forgive them, and try to make them our friends.

HOMEMAKING——Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Keeping Records Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show the importance of keeping home-management records. INTRODUCTION During the past few months the homemaking discussions have been concerned with the importance of family financial planning in its various applications to family life and living. These have involved the keeping of certain financial records: specifically, some form of budgeting which would enable the family to work toward the realization and attainment of its goals, and ambitions. Financial records, however, are not the only ones with which the family should be concerned. The management of a home is similar in many ways to the management of a business. Like a business, a family has important documents, valuable assets and_ securities, and other things of significant value to its members. Since memory cannot be relied upon to supply usable or dependable records, these, of necessity, should be preserved and made a matter of written record. To Discuss Almost every mother, at one time or another in her life, is confronted by such questions as: 1. Are you prepared to take care of the family business affairs if anything happened to your husband? 2. In case of emergency, do you know the blood type of each member of the family? 8. Can you furnish the facts relative to your children's health status if it were necessary to do so? 4. Do you know what your family assets are, and can you produce the deeds or certificates to your holdings? WHAT RECORDS SHOULD A FAMILY KEEP? Assuming that the homemaker is convinced of the importance and advantage of keeping records, she, as well as her husband, needs to know what kind of records are