[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 43 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Unwelcome Caller Nancy | M. Armstrong]
[The Home Inside and Out Unwelcome Caller Nancy M. Armstrong]

Unwelcome Caller Nancy M. Armstrong m Every muscle in my body screamed as I 'climbed out of bed. Never mind, the house was spotless. Windows shone, woodwork gleamed, curtains were crispy white. All the hard work of readying I for Christmas was done. Only pleasurable tasks remained. Last minute touches to decorations, packages, and food would consume the next two days. Then the transcendent day, with eighteen family members invited for dinner. Well, everything was under control. Suddenly, I smelled smoke. Throwing on a robe, I dashed to the kitchen. Thick smoke was issuing around every lid on the range. I tried every conceivable adjustment of the dampers, With each change, more smoke puffed out heavier and blacker. Opening the back door, I called to my husband who was in the. Coal shed filling buckets. The breeze, created by opening the door, wafted smoke into the other rooms. Originally, the old farm house we had purchased our first year of marriage, had doors to isolate each room. But we had had to be modern. In remodeling we removed most of the doors. The smoke surged through the dining room and into my newly decorated living room. When my husband came in, he said, "Something is clogging the chimney or firebox. I'll have to lift the fire out to find out what it is.' I moaned, but there was nothing else he could do. As he lifted the lids, fly ash and soot joined the smoke. After carrying the smoldering coal outside in a bucket, he came back to say he would have to take down the stovepipe. Warm fly ash and soot cascaded down the wall behind the stove as the pipe was removed. I opened the kitchen door and the back porch door so my. Husband could carry the pipe into the yard. I returned to surgey my proce kitchen that resembled a scene from the January 1967 "Last Days of Pompeii." Little swirls of soot whirled here and there on the floor. Fly ash was settling on chairs, table, cupboards, and refrigerator. I sat down at the table, put my head on my arms and wept. My husband came in to say, "A little owl was clogging the pipe. He must have been asphyxiated last night while sitting on the chimney, and fell in."' I who am a complete pushover for all animals and birds could feel no sympathy. I was drenched in self-pity. My husband put his arm around my shoulders. 'At least I know what you need for Christmas now," he said. "What?" I asked through tears. "A guard for the top of the chimney to keep out unwelcome callers." I made no reply. "Oh, cheer up, honey," he said. "It could have been a lot worse." "How?" "Well he could have waited until Christmas Eve to play Santa." Oh, what a gruesome idea! With eighteen guests coming for dinner. My husband filled a bucket at the sink. "Where will I find a scrubbing brush and a box of detergent?' he asked. Raising my head, I managed a feeble smile. "I'll get into a work dress and be right back." Indeed things could have been a lot worse. LOVE'S MAGIC Leone W. Doxey A housekeeper is a homemaker if she shares her love; Tasks do not drag her down, her spirit soars above. Material things in her home become the tools at hand; They work magic when her love is in command. She greets the day with gladness, a song, and sunny smile, A table set attractively makes breakfast worthwhile; Her children go to school with their clothes washed clean, Ironed smooth, and mended with love in every seam. A token of her kindness, so thoughtful and sweet, Is often found in a lunch box——a special treat. Clean sheets on all the beds at night Tuck in love and say, "'Sleep tight.'' Oh, love is a wonderful, powerful thing; The woman who works with it hears life sing.