[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 38 | Fiction | Christmas Begins With a Tree Marilyn | McMeen Miller]
Tomorrow was the day before Christmas, and most of the trees would be gone. There would probably be one or two straggly ones left, but size or beauty did not matter. Tonight she would see how many of her reports she could get done and then tomorrow she would get a tree. And a sudden thought warmed her even in her bitterness. Perhaps she could bake some cookies and take them and the notebooks and visit Miss Pool. She did not care much for the thin, wiry teacher who was so stern, and was avoided by many of the teachers; but it was something she could do for someone who needed her. Anyway, it was. A thought. After a light bowl of soup, Miss Gold sat grimly at her sitting room table and mechanically forced herself through the piles of words and pictures that lay before her. "And some people think a teacher is lucky because she gets vacations," she muttered once, and just then the telephone rang. "Hello, Sister Gold?" "Yes," she answered. It was Christmas Begins With a Tree someone from the ward. "I know you don't get to come to Relief Society because you teach, but still we thought you wouldn't mind helping us out for the ward Christmas Eve night by bringing some cookies. Would you mind?" the voice on the end of the line seemed very friendly. "No. I'd be happy to help you." Miss Gold caught her own voice sounding grateful. 'I was planning to make some cookies anyway. I'll just bake extra. Come to the party?" She hesitated. "Well, what time does it start? I was planning to do something else. I guess I could do it first, and come to the ward later. All right. I'll bring the cookies myself." Tuis first sign of human life warmed her. At least somebody cared that much, she thought. Correcting the notebooks was hard work. Her back ached and her hand was cramped. But this time she did not want to quit. She wanted to have a glorious Christmas Eve, knowing that Miss Pool's work, at least, was out of the way. And so, in the early hours of the morning, she finally closed the reports, laid down her red _ pencils, and breathed a sigh of relief. She was dead tired. But perhaps it had been worth it, even though she suspected the wiry old lady might not appreciate it. It was a little late in the morning when Miss Gold finally awakened without her alarm. During the night there had been a little skiff of snow, but now the sun was shining. She would be able to walk to get the tree; it was 

39 January 1967

 such a beautiful day! She decided she would bake the cookies first and then go. At the good smells of melting chocolate and toasting oatmeal and coconut, Miss Gold forgot that she was alone. Now if she had a tree, and watched a good television program, it would seem like Christmas. It was about five o'clock in the afternoon when all the cookies were finally baked, and the kitchen cleaned—and there hadn't yet been a moment to get a tree. It just didn't seem there would be time unless she drove to Miss Pool's and got the tree between going to Miss Pool's and the chapel. Or she might get the tree before going to Miss Pool's, and put it in the car. Sue decided the last course was best, so she boxed the cookies up and bundled Miss Pool's notebooks together and drove to look for her tree. She decided she would have to buy a string of lights. Miss Gold knew that most of the trees would be gone by now, but she forgot that so many of the lots which sold them would be closed. Time after time, she drove up to an empty lot littered with a few straggling branches. The lights were often out and the proprietors gone to spend the evening with their families. It surely looked like Christmas Eve. Even the stores were ending the season. All was quiet. She bought a string of lights and a box of 'tinsel and drove out of town a little distance to a lot she was sure would be open. She was lucky. The proprietor stood balancing from one leg to 40 the other, breathing big white puffs of warm breath into the cold air. "You're a little late, lady," he said. "All we have are big ones. You want some boughs, lady?" "Say, I do believe we have one little pine left."" One of the men came up from a little shack at the side where the smoke spiraled into the air. One little pine? Her heart jumped. It seemed to be a silly thing, yet it made so much difference to her whether there would really be a Christmas in her life or not. "Oh, that will be perfect. Ill take it," she said. The tree was perfect. It was a beautiful and symmetrical, longneedled pine. It bounced around beautifully and smelled so good. It was going to seem like Christmas after all, and just in time. Joyously, she popped it in the back seat and drove to Miss Pool's. The small house that belonged to Miss Pool was completely dark. Not a light was visible anywhere, unless that weak faint glow from the back could be called a light. Betty Gold shuddered. Even her little apartment was better than this. One of the teachers had declined taking the faculty bulletins by, Miss Gold remembered. The nervous, sick woman was probably somewhere in the depths of that house, her same stern self. Betty was a little frightened, but she stepped up to ring the doorbell. There was no answer, and so she tried the door. To her surprise, it opened. "Anyone home?" From far in the back a weak voice called "Who is it?" Betty clutched the cookies and the notebooks under her arm. "Miss Gold. I've brought your notebooks, Miss Pool." "Well, come in, then. Don't leave the door open very long." The little woman was propped up against her pillows, reading under a low yellow light. "I've got your notebooks done, and I wanted to say Merry Christmas to you, too, Miss Pool." SomeHow, Betty did not want to mention the cookies. Miss Pool looked so ill, as though she could not have eaten anything. Her face was drawn into tight lines. She looked tired and sad. "Thanks. Put the notebooks there." It seemed a curt offering of appreciation after the work it had taken, but Betty promised herself she was not going to mind. "So it's Christmas again, is it?" Miss Pool asked weakly. 'Not like the times I remember. I've been thinking about those years, Miss Gold. You're not as old as I am, and you don't remember when all the families got together —grandma—all the aunts—not a soul was left out—and there were trees, popcorn, carols, laughter, joy, everything...." Miss Gold was about to say, "I think families still do get together," but she saw in the lonely old eyes a bright rim of tears. "My younger brother mentioned he'd come and bring his children to say Merry Christmas, but even they have forgotten," Miss Pool said. So there was something, after all, for Miss Pool for Christmas. Christmas Begins With a Tree Miss Gold thought of her own brother and his family so far away. "Are they coming Christmas Eve?" Betty asked, suddenly finding herself hopeful above any other thing that the young family would not forget. "Oh, You know young children don't care about the older generation anymore," Miss Pool said. Suddenly, Betty wanted to make it seem even more like Christmas for Miss Pool, because there seemed to be nothing but a double disappointment. And what if the family did come and the house was so drab? She thought of the tree. Of course. That was the logical thing. For only a brief moment did she hesitate. "Miss Pool, I have something out in the car—your brother's family would love it when they come... Oh... And besides, I brought these cookies." The woman in the bed raised her eyes at Betty's sudden burst of good will. "Can you wait for me just one moment while I run out to the car?" "Cookies? Oh, why, yes, of course... Thank you—how thoughtful!" It took only a moment to drag the tiny pine into the bedroom and set it up on its little wooden stand, propping it with the sewing basket and some books. "Miss Gold—you needn't do that... Why, I haven't had a tree in a long time." Betty felt a sudden childish feeling of warmth rise from her heart to her cheeks. The woman's eyes were actually sparkling. "TY believe I have some orna- 

41 January 1967

 ments from years gone by," the sick woman said, almost trying to hide a new excitement she was ashamed of feeling. "(Down there in that lower drawer. No, not that... In the chiffonier... Yes... There...." Just as the little tree, with its one string of lights, got a spattering of tinsel, the doorbell rang. It was Miss Pool's brother and his wife and three little girls, hesitant and quiet at the sight of the dark house and Miss Gold's presence at the door. Betty had never really been so happy to see anyone, and this feeling astonished her, because this was the family of someone else. She led them to the back room, and Miss Pool could not completely hide her joy and gratitude even though she tried to look stern as she said, "I thought _ you had forgotten me." The little girls immediately went over to the tree and tugged at their mother's hands. "IT didn't know Aunt Roberta would have a Christmas tree," one of them said questioningly. "Oh, it's so pretty." "Christmas came to house, after all." "We brought you some presents, Auntie." Betty's heart felt unusually warm and trembling, and she felt tears well up in her eyes. Without saying much, she would leave them now while Miss Pool was passing out the cookies. She moved toward the door and pulled on her coat and gloves. "Goodbye now," she said as inconspicuously as possible. "Qh, just a minute,'"' Miss Pool said loudly, so that everyone in the warm room, standing around your 42 the bed piled with packages and the little glowing tree, turned to watch Miss Gold. "I just wanted to thank you, Miss Gold, for doing these notebooks. Nobody knows but a schoolteacher, I suppose, how much time and energy went into all of that. I know—and I am surely grateful. And thank you— well, just thank you for everything. I hope you can come again during the holidays." Betty's heart thudded, as she nodded goodbye to everyone and made her way out the door and into the crisp winter air. That was what she had needed—somehow to be able to give, and to have the someone who needed that giving, to appreciate it. Christmas might begin with a tree, but it was made up of love. Betty left the warm house with the laughter of the little girls and the sound of paper wrappings being torn off of packages. With a glad heart, she gathered _the other boxes of cookies on the front seat and drove to what she knew would be a most wonderful Christmas party, a wonderful Christmas Eve, and also a warm holiday.