[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: FLOWERS. | Author: Unknown]

FLOWERS.

	BOOKS, like friends may be few but should
be well chosen.
	IN prosperity we need moderation; in ad-
versity, patience.
	NATURE sometimes grows men where
she grows nothing else.
	CULTIVATE the habits of industry, per-
severence, punctuality, neatness, candor and
cheerfulness.
	WHEN estimating the worth of men,
keep a guard upon your judgment, that it
be not biased by wealth nor splendor.
	PLEASURE arising from the performance
of a good act will continue as long as memo-
ry and reflection last.
	THAT state of life is most happy where
superfluities are not required and necessa-
ries are not wanting.
	KIND words make people good-natured.
Though they do not cost much, yet they
accomplish much.—Pascal.
	THERE is something in parting that softens
the heart;—it is as if we had never felt
how unutterably dear a beloved one could be,
till we are about to part for ever.
	A GOOD and safe rule to walk by is to be
severe and right in judging ourselves, and
to be very meek and charitable to our
brother.
	"LET no man deceive himself," says Pe-
trarch, "by thinking that the contagions of
the soul are less than those of the body.
They are yet greater, they sink deeper, and
come on more unexpectedly."
	MORALITY without religion is only a
kind of dead reckoning,—an endeavor to
find our place on a cloudy sea by measuring
the distance we have to run, but without
any observation of the heavenly bodies.—
Longfellow.
	It is easy in the world to live after the
world's opinion. It is easy in solitude to
live after our own. But the great man is
he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence
of his character.—Emerson.
	HOPE is itself a species of happiness, and
perhaps the chief happiness which this
world affords; but like all other pleasures
immoderately enjoyed, the excess of hope
must be expiated by pain, and expectations
improperly indulged, must end in disap-
pointment.
	WHEN we have come to understand the
reason why we live, and distinctly perceive
the end and aim of existence here on earth,
it will be a pleasant task to trace back the
path by which the Divine goodness con-
ducted us, and to observe that all was wis-
dom and love.
	YOUR true religious life consists in
standing where God has put you, and exer-
cising Christian qualities. It consists in
pity where pity is called for; in manifest-
ing patience where patience is required; in
exhibiting gentleness where gentleness is
needed.—H. W. Beecher.
	A KNIGHT in the time of Charlemagne,
finding himself on his death-bed, desired
that his hereditary enemy, over the Rhine,
might be asked to compose his epitaph.
The other wrote, "God be merciful to the
soul of Sir—von—, brave, generous,
noble in his life and in his death. I. Sir
——von——, his enemy, say these words,
and I grave them in the stone, that the
tears of his friends may with less ease ob-
literate them."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS.  EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p, m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1874.


