		SNOWFLAKE.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Snowflake Stake was held at Snowflake
Nov. 26th, 1892 President Emma S. Smith
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Prest.
Emma S. Smith addressed the conference,
felt thankful that conference time had rolled
around again. Spoke at some length on the
principle of faith and said “as it is a gift
from Heaven it should be carefully culti-
vated.” Urged the mothers to be more dil-
igent in attending to their duties, especially
in regard to their children, and hoped we
would always be found strengthening the
right side.
	Coun. Sarah Driggs made remarks.
Spoke of our duties in looking after the
poor, but felt as Bro. Kimball used to say,
that the better way is to provide labor and
pay them for it. Encouraged parents to
properly care for their children and see that
they behave well in company.
	Sister Jemina W. Smith bore testimony
to the truth of this work and said “if we are
humble and prayerful our trials will be
over-ruled for our good.”
	Sister Ellen Sainsbury reported the society
of Tuba City. They are striving to live as
the Gospel requires. Had never investi-
gated any other religion for she had felt
perfectly satisfied with our own.
	Sister Lilywhite reported the society of
Woodruff, meetings were well attended, the
testimony meetings in particular, and all
were trying to do right. Exhorted the
parents to attend the Sabbath Schools and
Primaries and keep a watchful care over
their little ones.
	Sister Ann Brewer gave a brief report of
the Pinedale society and said if we never
shrink a duty after a while we will become
like Nephi of old, believing we can do all
tilings we are required to do, and our child-
ren cannot fail to imbibe the same faith.
	The societies of Showlow and Snowflake
were reported by Sisters Mc’Niel and Mary
J. West.
	Sister Celia Hunt felt thankful to meet
with us after an absence of something over
eight years. While she had been away the
Lord had blessed her abundantly and she
could testify that He will always be a father
to the fatherless.
	Prest. Lorenzo H. Hatch then addressed
the conference. Was gratified with the re-
marks of the sisters. They certainly are
improving. It is impossible to please the
Lord and stand still. We expect tribulation
and are not disappointed in that respect.
Spoke upon the subject of faith and said
the sisters should be encouraged in their
labors.
	In the evening there was a meeting held
in the Society Hall, a neat brick building
recently erected by the sisters of Snowflake.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith said we now have
a room in the upper part of this house set
apart for the sisters to pray in. Our prayers
have been answered when we have met to
pray for the sick and we should be thankful
that we have this privilege.
	Spoke of the manner in which our young
people are led astray and gave some excel-
lent advice in regard to keeping them in the
right path.
	Sister Mary J. West compared our con-
dition to day with the time when our moth-
ers sat at the spinning wheel and cooked

[column two]
over the fire. Was glad to see the improve-
ment, for instead of doing so much un-
necessary work we can study and improve
our minds. The Lord wants his daughters
educated. Expressed her gratitude that
the Relief Society Hall was completed; it
has been built by the sisters of Snowflake
with five cent donations. Great praise is
due to Sister Driggs who has so faithfully
executed her duties, as business manager.
Also to Sister Flake and treasurer Sister
Fanny J. Willis.
	Remarks were also made by Coun. Sarah
Driggs, Ida H. Udall, Phebe Kartchner,
May H. Larson, Dena Willis, Ellen Sains-
bury and Annie Kartchner.
	The Holy Spirit was abundantly poured
out upon the speakers and the various sub-
jects touched upon were well calculated to
strengthen the faith and good desires of all
present.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec. R. S.


