THE REFORMATION.

	LATER in his teachings, Luther with his
two edged sword, went out to strip the Pon-
tiff of his spoils, and was quite as earnest
against the Pope’s ecclesiastical authority in
Germany as against his temporal power in
Italy. “As a first step,” says he, “it be-
hooves us to expel from all the German
States,the Pope’s legates, and the pretended
benefits which they sell us at their weight
in gold; and which are mere impostures.
They take our money, and  for what?—for
legalizing ill-gotten gains,  for dissolving
the sacredness of oaths for teaching us to
break faith; for instructing us  in sin  and
leading us directly to hell.  Hear this,  Oh
Pope!   Not most holy, but most sinning!
May God from his throne on high, hurl thy
throne ere long to the bottomless pit.
	The Christian tribunal proceeded:  Hav-
ing summoned the Pope to his bar, he cited
before him all the corruptions which fol-
lowed in the train of the Papacy, and  be-
gan to sweep from the floor of the Church
the rubbish that encumbered it.
	He commenced with the Monks as fol-
lows: “Now then, I come to that slothful
crew  who  promise  much  but do little.
What I have to say to you is a  truth, both
sweet and bitter; it is that no more cloisters
must be built for mendicant friars,  God
knows we have enough already—and would
to heaven they were all leveled with  the
ground; vagabonding through the conntry
never has done, and never can do good.”
	The marriage of Ecclesiastics comes
next.  It was the first time that,  Luther
had spoken on that subject—“To what a
condition has the clergy fallen, and how
many Priests do we find burdened with wo-
men and children, and their bitter remorse,
while no one comes  to their aid.  It may
suit the Pope and the Bishop to  let things
go on as they list, but  for my part I will
deliver my conscience,  I will open my
mouth freely, let Pope, Bishop or whoever
will, take offence at it.
	We might for a moment glance at  the
effect of the New  Learning, as it was cal-
led, upon England.  King Henry’s quar-
rel with Rome, soon  snatched the Pro-
testants from the keener persecution which
troubled them after Wolsey’s fall.  The

