				SUFFRAGE.

	A TENDENCY to political freedom and in-
dependence seems to have become more
wide spread and intense ever since the reign
of Elizabeth of England; in fact that century
was a revolutionary period and an awaken-
ing with men and women in the matter of
liberty of conscience and individual rights,
and from that time women became more or
less distinguished in matters civil and
political as well as in literature and science.
	Without going into details we find in
America, Abagail Adams,Mary Warren and
Mrs. Bache, arguing and insisting upon wo-
man’s having representation in the govern-
ment;—Mrs. Warren was the sister of
James Otis author of the memorable saying,
“Taxation without representation is tryan-
ny,’’ Mrs. Bache was the daughter of Dr.
Franklin; however the first instance men-
tioned of a woman actually declaring that
the franchise should in justice be extended
to her sex, was Mrs. Hannah Lee Corbin
sister of Gen. Richard Henry Lee of
Virginia who replied to her on that occasion
that women had the right to vote in
Virginia; and it is a matter of record that
women did vote in that State at an early
day. Also that in 1776 the right to vote
was secured to the women of New Jersey
and that they exercised it for over thirty
years.
	But the famous struggle for woman’s
political emancipation grew out of the grap-
ple with slavery. Wm. Loyd Garrison
opened up the conflict on that question
when he established the Liberator, an Anti-
Slavery paper. His coadjutors were Wen-
dell Phillips, Charles Sumner, Theodore
Parker, Gerritt Smith and others of like
fame, and they were aided and in-
spired in their work by such women as
Lydia Maria Child, Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, Lucretia Mott, Abby Kelly, Helen
Garrison and Ann Greene Phillips, these
women both wrote and spoke with the
greatest force and fervor, and conservatives
in Church and state were alarmed, and war
was declared against these eloquent wom-
en, so that a double battle was forced upon
the abolitionists—for the rights of women
and the freedom of the slave. The doc-
trine of human rights was discussed anew
and exhaustively, and the platform and the
press teemed with arguments for woman’s
rights which are still being repeated in our
own day and time; but these women daunt-
lessly continued their work notwithstand-
ing opposition and persecution.


﻿In 1840, a World’s Anti-Slavery Conven-
tion was called to convene in London and
all the anti-slavery organizations in the
world were invited to send delegates, sever-
al American societies elected delegates six
or eight of them were women among them
were, Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Phillips. The
excitement caused by their appearance in
London was intense, the English
Abolitionists being much more conservative,
and those women who had come “had rent
the American Anti-slavery Societies in twain;
had been denounced from the pulpit and by
the press, and mobbed by the riffraff in the
street;”and the cry was “they who have
turned the world upside down have come
hither also;”—and they were if possible
more alarmed when they saw that the wo-
men delegates, who were not clad in the
Quaker garb—were young, cultivated and
refined.
	A debate followed on the admission of
women, during which many of the men
delegates from America sided with the
English opposition. The battle for wo-
man’s rights was fought over again on the
other side of the water with moral force
and logic, as in America the year before.
Some of the noblest women of England
attended this convention as listeners and
spectators and the lesson was not lost upon
them. When the vote was taken on the
admission of women delegates they were
excluded by a large majority. Wm. Loyd
Garrison had not yet arrived in London,
but when he was informed of the decision
of the convention, he refused to take his
seat with the delegates, and throughout
the entire session which lasted ten days he
remained an absolutely silent spectator in
the gallery; one other delegate followed
his example Nathaniel P. Rogers of Con-
cord, New Hampshire and editor of an
Anti-Slavery paper.
	This London Convention marked a new
era in the cause of equal rights, and at the
close of the exasperating and insulting de-
bates Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, (then a young bride who had ac-
companied her husband who had been
chosen a delegate,) decided to hold a Wo-
man’s Rights Convention on their return to
America; meantime the women who had
taken hold of the subject kept agitating
these questions, and prepared for the com-
ing crisis. This convention was called
for the 19th, and 20th, of July 1848 at
Seneca Falls New York the time seeming ripe.
	Daniel O Connor said to these leaders
in the movement, “Demand the uttermost
and you will get something.”
	These women were outspoken in terms and
demanded, “equal rights in colleges and
universities, trades and professions; the
right to vote, to share in all political offices,
honors and emoluments; to complete
equality in marriage, equal rights in prop-
erty, in wages for equal work, and in mi-
nor children; to make contracts; to sue and
be sued; to personal freedom; and to serve
on juries especially when women were
tried.”
	This first Convention adjourned to meet
in Rochester Aug. 2nd, 1848. Immense
crowds were in attendance and the greatest
interest manifested in debates and discus-
sions. Afterwards conventions were held
in Salem Ohio 1850, Akron 1851, in Mas-
silon 1852, in Ravenna 1853. Advocates
of the cause increased; the historic women
connected with this movement are those
whose deeds have been handed down to us
well known at the present day, Frances D.

