[Column 2]
ably for a lady of her time quite out of the
ordinary  routine  of  titled dames, and  in
fact she began to realize that she was no
longer young, and it had a sort  of depress-
ing effect  that  was in  a measure  salutary,
though it is not strange that she  should re-
pine and grieve when shut  out, as  it were,
from those who had flattered  and worship-
ped at her shrine of beauty and accomplish-
ments.    The fact was she had nothing sub-
stantial  to  fall  back   upon;  soured  with
disappointments and vexed almost beyond
endurance with the repinings of her hus-
band  whom she  could never  please;  not
even when she  made  every  exertion to do
so;  more  often,  however,  they  quarreled
and sometimes Lady  Walton looked  upon
her life, not only as a failure but a burden.
All aimless lives such as hers had been, be-
come monotonous when  by  circumstances
one is compelled  to  leave  the  bustle and
turmoil of the gay world,and retire to home
life and country  pleasures.   The ambition
for show and vanity that had  characterized
the life  of this  beautiful  and  attractive
lady had  received a  severe blow, almost a
chastisement, and  yet she could  not  find
consolation in religion never having devoted
time or attention to the subject,instead hav-
ing lived  in   quite   another   atmosphere
where those higher  and  holier aspirations
of the soul were held in a sort of irreverence.
	Lord Walton  would not even conform to
the usages and obligations of the Church of
England except as his position required him
to,and his wife had never given the slightest
thought to such matters, save  when some
fashionable friend  had interceded with her
for  her influence     in   some    charitable
undertaking.
	Lady Walton was much interested in her
son’s wife and  wanted to spend  the winter
in  London,  made  up  her  mind  to do  so
even against  the  protest  of  her  husband,
who declared it was only a  whim, and he
could not consent to her absence.
	“I shall  go  however, with  or  withont
your approval,”  said   Lady  Walton  one
evening after they  had  argued  the  point,
rather excitedly.    ‘‘I cannot endure this
sort of thing much longer and besides Anna
has  no  mother  to  be  with her  or  sister
either, and it is my duty.”   “Duty, echoed
her  husband,  duty  indeed,  have  you  no
sense of the duties of  a  wife, no doubt you
will rejoice  to see the  families  of Walton
and Hilliard still futher united in another
generation, there  seems to  be a fatality in
the affair, why  should  my son fall in love
with that girl?   Only that you were infatu-
ated with the father,” and this in a  tone of
bitter exasperation.
	“One would think you might be satisfied
when the  lineage is yours, don’t you want
your name perpetuated?”
	“That might have been done as easily if
Maitland had chosen a Chatham or a Mowry
why the deuce should he go after that Hil-
liard girl when there were dozens to choose
from?”
	“Because she was the most lovely and at-
tractive girl  in all the  country  round, and
you yourself my Lord, cannot help confess-
ing that.”
	“The girl  is  well enough, sweet-spoken
and accomplished hasn’t much spirit though,
too  lackadaisical  for  my  liking,  nothing
very fine about her, common place in fact,
her father was common  enough  withal his
high temper and aristocratic notions, mar-
ried a gipsy and brings her son here to rank
with gentleman, disowns  him  in his  life-
time.”

[Column 3]
	“You know  why  he  married  beneath
him,” said Lady Walton now fully roused,
but repenting the moment  she had spoken,
lest he should make a scene, Lord  Walton
screamed, “yes I do know, and you repent,
no doubt,  not having been the companion of
his solitude,  the  mistress  of that  tumble
down castle, you never forget to  taunt me
with this dissolute old Baron, from whom I
saved you, what sort  of  life would  a  wo-
man  fond  of society have had with him?
You ought to be very grateful to me for the
part I played in this matter, tho’ you never
knew it all, nor ever  will now he is  dead.”
	Lady Walton controlled her  temper well,
she knew more  than he  was aware of, but
was too wise to betray   the  knowledge she
had gained  on  that eventful  night  when
the Baron had unlocked the  portals of that
buried past.
	“Then there   is  something  to  disclose
more than  I  know,   well keep  the  secret
buried I have no wish  or  desire to hear it,
for what could it avail now  be it  what it
might,  we  are  neither  of us  young, and
should not repine at our lot, while we have
our children left to maintain the honor and
dignity  of  the  house  and  name   of the
family.”
	“Your moralizing is new Helen methinks
when  did  you   become  so  much of  a
philosopher, then  I  suppose  you will give
up this visit  to London, and  content your-
self playing  checkers  with  me  instead of
renewing  acquaintance   with  my former
companions in the gay metropolis, well  for
you, they are not  all  to  be  trusted  when
husbands are  rheumatic  and must keep at
home, I’m glad Helen  you are so  reason-
able.”
	“I shall certainly go  to London Henry,
but if you cannot remain here  I  will take
you with me, and wait upon  you there, but
go I must and will.   There will  be some
society in the  house, Dr.  Bland  and wife
and that may help me to pass the time more
easily,   Mrs.  Bland  you remember is the
most clever woman and may even  interest
you.   I recollect your  telling me  the high
opinion Burke  and  Hemenway had of this
young woman years ago,  do  you  recall
what they said of her?”
	“Yes I have not forgotten, but  I do not
admire such masculine  women,  know as
much as men, can talk on any  subject,  fit
to sit in Parliament,  none of that for  me,
couldn’t be under  the same roof with her;
rules her  husband, will ruin  his practice
doubtless,  had  no  dower  to  bring  him
either poor fellow.”
	“But he was desperately in love with her
and as for the  dower, her  uncle left her a
legacy, and she has a son that  is somewhat
of a dower for  the old doctor, who  might
have been her father  by his  age.  She will
not interfere with you—no fear of  that, she
would soon observe your antipathy  for wo-
men of opinions;” and so the dispute ended
amicably without either giving in.
	Next morning Lady Walton  gave orders
to the household that everything  was to be
ready for the journey  to  London  within  a
week; she knew  the steward would carry
the news to  his master forthwith and she
was prepared to maintain her position even
if it cost a struggle.
	Lord Walton  fretted   and  fumed  and
swore vigorously but it had  no effect upon
his wife unless to make her more determined
to go, and  in less than  a week, they  were
packed inside the family coach and journey-
ing  towards  the    capital.   Luckily   the
Doctor,  who   attended   the  invalid,  had


entered into the plan, believing the change
would be beneficial to his patient and urging
him to try it.
	The Waltons had got comfortably fixed
before Dr. Bland and his wife arrived, Lady
Wlaton determined not to go to their own
house but stay with Maitland that she
might see something of life and not be
buried alive in the great city as she express-
ed it.  Lady Anna was very glad to have
her there, thinking Maitland would remain
more at home, for he was seldom with her,
and she had grown quite nervous about
him, dreading to know where he spent his
time, for entreat him as she might he per-
sisted in staying away.  Indeed she had
thought that when her cousin Jane came,
he might be more neglectful than ever, but
fancied he would be more attentive to his
mother and that things would shape them-
selves more favorably.  She was over-sen-
sitive and slept little, he could see her eyes
were sad but it failed to keep him at home;
she'll be better by and bye he thought, and
recklessly pursued his recreant course re-
gardless of consequences.


