[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XVIII.
	THE visit of Lady  Anna  Walton  to the
old home and to her cousin was very pleas-
ant, and proved to her old friends how true
and womanly  she  was  in  her  affections,
and that time and  travel  and  new  scenes
could not wean her from the old, nor change
her  friendship  towards   those  beloved  in
earlier days.   It was quite remarkable that
she should  have  so  much  native  dignity
and elegance,and be so constant and sincere,
considering the pernicious teaching  and ex-
ample of French  governesses; but it was
due in a great measure to the influence and
sound judgment of cousin  Jane, and also
to the inheritance of a  noble  ancestry, in
fact  Lady  Anna had good  blood in  her
veins.
	She  thoroughly  appreciated  now  the
sensible  advice  of  her   wiser and more
discreet cousin,and clung to her as though
she were her  mother  or older sister;  she
seemed to care less for Lady Walton senior,
and to be less  infatuated  with society; in
fact she had begun to  comprehend the res-
ponsibilities of married  life and looked to
her cousin as the examplar of all that was
beautiful and lovely as a wife  and mother;
and yet she felt her love for  Maitland  sur-
passed in quality that of Jane  for the  doc-
tor, and it astonished her to see how deliber-
ate and calm Mrs. Bland  was on all  mat-
ters of equal interest to husband and wife
whereas she was impulsive, exacting and
selfish.
	Lady Walton  decided to return  to Lon-
don without her  cousin  and  insisted upon
her promising  a  visit  during  the  coming
winter, which plan  was  presented  to  the
doctor and agreed to before  her  departure,
although the doctor  was  reluctant, yet he
wished he might attend  his  former  ward
instead   of  another   physician,  and  was
aware one would be needed ere long.
	The parting was much more affecting than
when Anna  had  started  on  her  wedding
tour, and many tears were shed  and kisses
interchanged,  for both ladies felt  the near-
ness  of kin and the bonds  of womanhood
that united them  in  common  sympathy.
As for Maitland he had paid little attention
to his wife during her  visit occupying  her
time  in  hunting, fishing  and  racing, and
among his former associates, “a jolly good
fellow;” Anna knew he was less tender and
scrupulously attentive   but  reasoned that
when she had him all to  herself again, he
would be more devoted, in fact made every
excuse possible as women ever do for those
beloved.   She would give up all for him
while he made no sacrifice for her, and was
rather glad to show him how  willingly she
relinquished all her old preferences for his
dear sake.   His mother was very unhappy,
the   father   was a   helpless   invalid and
chronically jealous, and  poor Lady Walton
really had a sad time of it;  far   different to
the  palmy days  of her earlier womanhood
when she had been considered the reigning
belle in the locality  where she  lived, and
one who always created a sensation among
society   women   in   London   during   the
fashionable season.
	Lady Walton was a gifted woman intel-
lectually and now that  she was  left much
to herself and to wait upon  an invalid hus-
band,   her thoughts   turned   more in the
direction of such pursuits and small charities
to those about  her   household and in her
immediate vicinity.   This gave her  some
satisfaction, and she also scribbled consider-

