PHILLIPS BROOKS.

	So many sorrowful and affectionate tri-
butes will be paid to the memory of this
beloved pastor and prelate that it may al-
most seem superfluous for us to add to their
number.  But the roses and violets which
we bring to the funeral rites of our dear
ones are for ourselves, not for them, walk-
ing in the asphodel of heaven. It is our
debt which we recognize in these fond, sad
offerings.  Something we must bring to
express the love and sorrow which we feel.
	At the ceremonies of his interment on
Thursday, every beautiful device that
florist or friend could achieve combined to
make visible the glory of the perishable,
imaging with brief splendor the preciousness
of forms that are only lent to us for a time,
to be lost from sense and seen no more.
The flowers, too, image for us the love
which has its root deep in Nature, as they
have theirs in earth.  In the general ovation,
if we may use the word, which is offered
to the memory of the dead saint, the Jour-
nal has its own especial word to say.
	Phillips Brooks, like almost every eminent
philanthropist of the last forty years, was a
woman suffragist.  When the social un-
popularity of our own reform was at its
height, he did not hesitate to affix his name,
and the weight that went with it, to the
petition (one of many) which we were then
about to present to the Massachusetts
Legislature, asking for the political enfran-
chisement of women.  So may his petitions
be heard before the throne to which our
thoughts aspire in recalling him!  A little
later, when the voice of weeping is hushed,
it will be pleasant and profitable to recall
his good deeds in detail, and to dwell upon
his individual merits.  To-day, the wound
is too painful.  We can only bow to the
sudden bereavement, blessing the Providence
which gave, even for a short time, to the
world this true shepherd and Bishop of souls,
this apostle who could reconcile even the
differences of Christendom, as hard to
reconcile, perhaps, as any, through the
largeness of his Christ-like spirit, his faith
in all things divine, his charity for all things
human.			JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman's Journal.


