attributes of character, that made it a paradise on
earth to those with whom she was thus associated;
her love of flowers constituted one of her chief
pleasures, and her plants were the admiration of
all who passed the house and the display in her
windows were a great attraction.
	Sister Winder was the mother of ten children,
five of whom are now living; she leaves also
twenty grand-children, who all loved her as
tenderly as her own. She was tender-hearted,
gentle, conscientious and forgiving, a woman of
many virtues and much goodness of heart, wo-


manly in every respect, yet brave and strong when
occasion called for action.
	“No single virtue we could most commend,
	Whether the wife, the mother, or the friend;
	For she was each in that supreme degree,
	That, as no one prevailed, so all was she.”
			MEMORI AL.
	ACCORDING to agreement at the last meeting o
the Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Dec. 1st, 1892,
the following resolutions of respect were made,
and at the succeeding meeting were unaninously
adopted.
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained
by the decease of our beloved Sister and Secre-
tary Ellen Walters Winder, and of the still heavier
loss sustained by those who were nearest and
dearest to her; therefore, be it—
	Resolved that it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed that in sorrowing over
her removal from our midst we mourn for one
who was always faithful and prompt in discharg-
ing her duties, even when laboring under heavy
physical disabilities; and, was in every way
worthy of our respect and love.
	Resolved, that we tenderly condole with the
family of our beloved sister in their hour of trial
and affliction, and share with them the hope of a
reunion in that better world to which we are all
hastening, and trust that God, “Who doeth all
things well,” will bless and comfort them.
	Resolved that a copy of this heartfelt testi-
monial of our sympathy and sorrow, be forwarded
to the family of our departed sister, and also be
placed upon our record.
			JULIA DRUCE, President.
			L. R. MIDGLEY, Ist Counselor.
			ELIZA D. HOOPER, 2nd Counselor.
			E. G. LYON, Treasurer.
			HANNAH BROOKS, Secretary.


