U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly session of the club convened
at the WOMAN'S EXPONENT parlors Jan.
31st, 1893 at the usual hour.  Vice Prest.
Phebe C. Young presiding.  The usual
preliminary business having been disposed
of the following programme was rendered.
First an interesting and instructive prose
article on “the important events of the close
of 1892,” written and read by C. C. R.
Wells.  Second, a descriptive poem, “The
Old Family Bible,” L. S. Dickinson. Mary
A. Freeze then read “A Reverie” from the
pen of Lillie T. Freeze.  Gladys Wood-
mansee favored the company with instru-
mental music, followed by the reading of a
letter from Ellis R. Shipp M. D. descrip-
tive of her college life and pleasures, etc.
written in her usually easy and pleasing
manner.
	Lula G. Richards contributed a poem en-
titled “Wheat” which she read to the
club.
	The meeting was then thrown open for
discussion on various topics.
	The following committee was then voted
for, to asertain whether the suggestion of
N.V. Davis would be practicable, a native
stone in a setting of gold, so as to allow
space for the raised letters U. W. P. C.,
and to obtain particulars regarding the cost
etc. of the same.  Committee Ruth M. Fox,
L. S. Dickinson, N. V. Davis and L. G.
Richards, moved that each member con-
sider an appropriate motto for the club, and
come prepared to report on the same at the
February meeting.
	Moved that each member who does not
consider the motto, and come prepared to
report on the same at the next meeting,
shall be subject to a fine of twenty five
cents.  Both motions were seconded, put
to the house and unanimously carried.
	L. S. Dickinson extended an invitation
to the club to accept of her hospitalities on
St. Valentine’s Eve, Feb. 13th, which invi-
tation was duly acknowledged and accepted.
The following programme for Feb. 28th,
was then read.
	Roll call to be responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.  An article from Augusta J.
Crocheron.  Ella Hyde, selected article.
May Preston, song.  M. A. B. Freeze,
“Women in Journalism.” Josephine
Spencer, Character of short stories in cur-
rent Magazines.  M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
original article.  Benediction was pro-
nounced.
	Refreshments were then served and the
usual pleasant chat and social enjoyment
followed until the warning finger of time
bade the club disperse.
	Critic, Miss N. V. Davis.  Mrs. Ella
Hyde and Miss May Preston were voted
members of the club.
