[Column 2]
beautiful. We had small branches with the
ripe fruit hanging from them, also some
with the green fruit peeping from among
the leaves, not only these, but we had some
with the lovely white and pink blossoms
in full bloom, and, strange as it may seem,
the ripe and green fruit, as did the blossoms
also, come from one tree. We hung them
all around the room, in every conceivable
shape and place and put “Merry Xmas.”
over the door; we then hung some extra
large leaves from the centre of the roof over
the hanging lamp, (I won’t describe it)
forming an umbrella, or I believe it was
more of a bell in shape, and when we had
thrown some bright ribbons, (which had
been brought from home) carelessly over
the top, our center piece was complete.
	Some of the natives came and looked in
at the door, and when they saw that we
were trying to beautify our home for Christ-
mas they went off, but soon returned with
large bouquets of lovely flowers, numbering
nine in all, which we placed on our centre
table and then, when it was set in place,
under the hanging lamp and “bell” our
little parlor presented a sight that was in-
deed pleasing to the eye.
	When the brethren returned from Apia,
they expressed their appreciation of our
labors, by uttering words of praise and ad-
miration for the appearance of our home.
We hastened to read our mail and as we all
received good news from our loved ones at
home, we were as “happy as could be” for
a Christmas Eve so far from parents, broth-
ers and sisters, and the associations of
relatives and friends. Some Elders who
were on their way to New Zealand brought
us a large valise filled with some of the
bounties of life, in the shape of—plum-pud-
ding, Christmas cake, honey, tomato pre-
serves, pickled onions and candy; this of
course added to the humble “bill of fare”
which had been decided upon for Xmas.
day. Mr. Hellesoe, the baker from whom
we purchase all our bread, (when we have
any,) also sent us two lovely cakes, so we
began to feel that we were going to have a
“feast of fat things.”
	On Sunday morning (Christmas Day) we
sang and prayed in native; we held our two
native meetings, and then in the evening
we held a meeting in English. At this
meeting we sang:
	Tho’ deep’ning trials throng your way
	Press on, press on! Ye Saints of God,
and after prayer by Prest. Browning, ye
sang:
	“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
We each bore our testimony, and closed by
singing:
	“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	We had a good time, and the Spirit
of God was in our midst.
	Monday Dec. 26th, 1892. This, of course
is the day we celebrate. We sang: “I
know that my Redeemer lives,” and after
prayers and breakfast were over, we at once
began to prepare for dinner. Prest. Brown-
ing had invited a few of the natives over to
eat “Christmas dinner” with us, and we
were expecting a good time. There is no
use of giving the preliminaries here, but
when dinner was announced, our tables
were laden with the following “goodies.”
Boiled chicken with soup (cooked in
American style.) Chicken cooked in true
Samoan style viz:—minus the feathers only,
and they were not taken off any too well.
We also had plenty of native food in the
shape of “Kalo” and “Palusami.” We

[Column 3]
had Christmas cake, rice pudding, pickled
onions, Utah honey, tomato preserves,
bread, butter, and rain water. Our soup
and pudding were in new tin wash basins
(that being the only kind of pan obtainable
here.)
	Our dusky guests were dressed up nicely
in light wrappers, that is, the female por-
tion of them, while the men present had
on their clean “lava-lava’s” (a piece of cloth
wrapped around the lower part of the
body.)
	It was amusing to see them eat their
chicken and pudding together, and then
their own cooked chicken with cake, and
so on. 
	I forgot to mention that we had green
corn and candy also, and water-melon too;
without saying anything of the lovely
bananas and pine apples we always have.
I know you’ll wish you were here, now
don’t you?
	The natives thought the tables were
lovely, with their white covers and the
shining dishes, and beautiful flowers on
them.
	We are never bothered here, with heating
water for dishes, as all of our dishes, as
well as our clothes, are washed in cold
water, (on account of the scarcity of
wood.)
	After dinner was over, “Tualele,” one of
the young ladies present, made the “Ava”
(native drink) and “Tetoai,” an old lady
who makes me think of our own “Aunt
Jane” passed it around. Our native sisters
insisted upon doing up the dishes, and they
hurridly washed them over and piled them
up in the wash-basin—not the pudding-pan,
but when they had dispersed to their homes
Sister S., and I were glad to embrace the
opportunity we had of washing the dishes
in our own style before putting them in the
cupboard.
	In the evening, after the natives had re-
turned and we had prayers and sang:
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion, tho’ now in
distant land,” the following programme
was rendered.
	Music by the band (Elders Mc Cune and
Hilton with harmonicas.) Recitation—
“Whistling in Heaven” by Sister Hilton,
Song— “Someday I’ll wander back again”
Prest. Browning. Song—“Samau,” and
the natives present. Music—by the band.
Song—“Last Night”—Elder H. L. Bassett.
Reading—"The Bob-o-link—Sister Stevens.
Song—“That is Love”—Elder C. E. Sum-
merhays. Song—by the natives. Reading
by Elder G. E. Abel. Song “Ella Rea”—
Elder L. A. Bailey. Music by the band.
Comic song—R. M. Stevens.
	After passing candy to the natives, Prest.
B—told them that it would be good for
them to go and after bidding “tofa” to
each other we were once more able to say
all we had to say in English. We had
lemonade and cake, and after “chatting”
and eating candy for a while, we retired
feeling that the pleasures of a Christmas on
Samoa far exceeded our expectations and
that we were in very deed blessed of the
Lord.
	I will have to close for this time as baby
is crying and, I have written part of this
with him on my lap already. I will per-
haps write again and tell you about the rats,
lizards, bugs etc, we see over here, and of
a great many more things that might be
interesting and amusing to you.
	The work of the Lord is progressing
nicely in this part of the world, and we are
living in hopes of having a great many


more embrace the Gospel, before the judg-
ments of God are poured out upon the
nations of the earth.
	Girls, appreciate your Mountain home.
Appreciate your dear, good parents, and
your peaceful surroundings, and last, but
not least, appreciate and take advantage of
the privilege you have of learning of the
ways of God.
	With kind love, and a “Happy New
Year” to all, in which Bro. Hllton joins, I
remain your sister in the Gospel of peace—
			SARAH MCMURRIN HILTON.
Dec. 29th, 1892.


