THE VOYAGE OF LIFE.

WE start across life's sea with shout and song,
Gathering our cargo as we sail along,
Good deeds, kinds words, dear friends, bright
	gems of thought,
These are among the treasures to be caught.
We dive deep down in wisdom's realm so fair,
To cull her dainty jewels rich and rare;
To deck our ship, that o'er life's mystic sea
No clouds may come to dim its brilliancy.
Let not the salt sea spray dash o'er our freight,
To tarnish it, diminish worth or weight,
Ster straight ahead, let no false light betray,
Breakers are hid beneath, each side the way.
Now as we near mid-ocean, storms arise,
And murky clouds and mist, o'er spread the skies
Then, when the troubled waters round us roar,
We cull our richest gems from Sorrow's store.
Sweet Faith and trust now meet us, oft we trace
'Neath Sullen waters, Mercy's smiling face
Then when through shifting clouds the sun ap-
	pears,
We, to our store have added, grateful tears.
Some goodly ships are hastened into port,
Their time for gathering cargo is but short,
The Owner calls in accents low and kind,
They pass us by, and leave no trace behind.
Some laugh their ships with promise fair and
	bright,
A long and happy voyage, greets their sight;
The sea is calm and still,no cloud is seen
Even faintly mirrored on its glistening sheen.
Why should they toil?  The heavens are full of
	days,
'Tis sweet to linger in life's pleasant ways,
Why haste?  The distance hides the far-off shore
They soon can load their ships with richest store.
And thus they drift along in idle pleasure,
In keeping with the waves soft swishing measure
No one to steer, no steady hand to guide,
While treacherous quicksands whirl on every side.
"Oh!  see the storm-cloud gathering thick and
	fast,
Will ye not labor ere the day is past
Can ye not hear the angry waters roar
And o'er ye, see the eager petrel soar?"
Oh!  come to us, We'll help you, fall in line
Our Captain guides us with a power divine,
We'll show you where bright, shining pearls lie,
Come now and gather in a full supply.


With straining eyes we watch the fated ships,
As idly on the wave each heaves and dips,
Alas! they do not heed the warning cry,
Too late, too late, the blinding storm is nigh.
Thrice happy be, who when his voyage o'er
Has life's best gifts and graces in his store,
Who, when the Master Owner calls "Return,"
Presents his ship well laden from stem to stern.
	E. A. BENNION.
