IN MEMORIAM.

	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women.  Sister Mary
Nagely Brandley, the beloved wife of Elder Theo-
dore Brandley.  She suffered intensely for three
weeks prior to her death, when death released
her on Dec. 29th, 1892.
	Sister Brandley was born March 11th, 1834 at
Altnau, Canton, Thurgau, Switzerland.  Em-
braced the gospel in her native land, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1872.  During that same year
was married to Elder Theodore Brandley, at Salt
Lake City.  She was a faithful Saint in the full
sense of the term; no sacrifice was too great for
her to make for the Gospel’s sake.
	During the twenty years of her married life,
her husband spent nine years of that time in the
missionary field, and she, with her characteristic
faith, assumed the burden of caring for their
children alone, never murmuring at his absence


nor the many trials and hardships incidental to
missionary’s wives.
	Through her last illness, she manifested un-
bounded faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Surrounded by her husband and children, by her
only brother, and hosts of friends, her every wis-
was anticipated, everything that love and sym-
pathy could do was lavished upon her but
prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong her
earthly career.  God, in his infinite wisdom had
called her home, and the tenderness and devotion
that had characterized the union of Brother and
Sister Brandley, ma de the parting ordeal all the
more severe for the heart-broken husband, who
scarcely left her bedside during her entire illness.
	Sister Brandley’s nature was purely domestic;
home was the place she adorned and no truer
wife and mother ever lived.  Her charity was
without stint, or ostentation, and the poor prayed
blessings upon her head.
	She was the mother of eight children, six of
whom are left to mourn their loss.
	The funeral services were held in the Meeting
House on New Year’s day; the large concourse
of sympathizing friends evidencing the respect
and esteem in which the family were held.
	May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved ones,
to comfort them in their hour of trial, and prepare
them for the joyful reunion awaiting them.
	IDA NAGELY.
