[Column 2]
Gage, Jane G. Swisshelm, Celia Burr,
Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Ernestine Rose, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline M. Severance and
others.
	The first National Woman’s Suffrage
Convention was held in Worcester Mass.
October 23, and 24, 1850—nine states were
represented—the audiences were it is said
“at the white heat of enthusiasm.” Among
the noted people who espoused the cause
were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore
Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, Wendell
Phillips, Thomas W. Higginson, Wm. J.
Bowditch, Abby May Allcott, Ednah D.
Cheney and many more grand men and wo-
men, who gave their talents and their wealth
to the furtherance of the cause.
	A dozen years of pioneer work, petitions
to legislatures for the modification of unjust
laws, and the increased circulation of papers
in the interest of women created an in-
fluence that was felt for good all the country
through. Then came the Civil War when
all reform work was suspended temporarily
and women began a collossal work of
relief and philanthropy. Clara Barton in
hospitals and bringing order out of chaos,
hope out of despair, Clara Barton at Ander-
sonville where 12000 soldiers had suc-
cumbed to the horrors of the military
prison awoke the gratitude of the nation.
	Since the war women have organized on
a scale of great magnitude. It is not pos-
sible to tell of the progress of this great
upheaval, in woman’s advancement, only
the briefest mention can be made; but our
readers are perhaps aware that after the
activity awakened upon many questions
of great importance, in 1869 the result
culminated in the forming of the great
national organizations styled the National
Woman Suffrage Association, and the
American. The National established its
headquarters in New York,and published a
weekly paper the Revolution edited by Mrs.
Stanton and Miss Anthony. The American
had its headquarters in Boston and the
Woman's Journal was founded which is
still in existence.
	Though the Revolution afterwards,
through some unwise contributors, became
so decidedly radical and erroneously pro-
nounced that it was denounced by those
who had before been its firm supporters.
	The State Woman Suffrage Associations
organized in different parts of the country
became auxiliary to one or the other of
these parent Associations, and in some few
instances to both. The National invariably
held its annual Conventions in Washing-
ton while Congress was in session—the
American itinerated from state to state
where ever the greatest amount of mission-
ary work seemed possible.
	After twenty years of separate work a
union of the two national organizations
wras affected in 1890 under the composite
title of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association. These bare statements
of facts do not give a hint of what has
been accomplished during these last forty
years but in thirty states and territories wo-
men have been admitted to certain
privileges in the way of representation;
and that the outlook at the present time is
more hopeful than ever before we, who are
working in these great organizations of wo-
men can plainly understand.


THE Wells Memorial Institute of Bos-
ton amended its by-laws last week so as to
make women eligible to membership.


