[Column 1]
﻿part of the “work” in connection with the
rest of the daughters of Zion. When I
lived in your ward, and mingled with you
in all kinds of meetings and amusements, I
little thought that I would ever live among
this dark skinned people in this distant land,
but, the fact that such is the case, is another
evidence to us that God reigns, that his
Priesthood is upon the earth, and that we
as his children do not know what is in store
for us.
	I wish you could just “dropin” on us
some beautiful morning and take a peep at
our little island home and its surroundings,
as it would, no doubt, interest you very,
very much.
	Our little house is situated only a few
rods from the beach, and when the “tide is
in” our sea bathing is simply grand, and, as
you can readily imagine, we enjoy it im-
mensely.
	As I am writing this morning, (for it is
only 9 a. m.) it is raining heavily and has
been all night, and, it is so dark, we are
compelled to have our lamp lighted; it does
not know how to rain in the land of Zion,
compared to the way it rains here. It hard-
ly seems possible that in dear Utah’s vales
everything is cold and freezing, and that you
are all clad in warm winter clothing and are
fain to spend your evenings indoors by the
warm fire-side, while we who are here can
go out on the plantation for a moonlight
stroll, and that too, without even the sem-
blance of a wrap, and we even carry our
fan in our hand, at times, and fan ourselves
as we walk slowly on; our evening walks
are taken oftener I believe for the purpose
of speaking to each other of home and loved
ones, than for any other reason. Our
thermometer registers from 80 to 90 de-
grees on an average, but very, very often
goes over 100.
	The natives here are a strong healthy,
race of people, and are very kind and
hospitable. Those of them who have al-
ready accepted the Gospel, as well as a
few who are favorably impressed, seem to
take pure delight in providing for the wants
of the Elders. Their food, some of which
is not at all inviting to say the least, proves
very nutritious to the brethren, who are
compelled to live entirely on native food
while out with the natives; they live with
the natives all the time, save when they
come to the Mission House, here at Fagolii,
for their mail, which arrives once a month.
	On the morning of Saturday Dec. 24th,
1892 we were looking anxiously out, over
the “deep blue sea” in the hope of seeing
the Mail Steamer you see, we were
anxious to receive our mail that day, as it
was Christmas Eve, and the good ship
“Monowai” was to be our “Santa Claus.”
We waited and watched until 10 a. m.,
without any sign of the steamer, and then,
(as provisions had to be purchased from
Apia, some three miles distant) the brethren
prepared the boat, and started out; when
they had been gone but a little while, Sis-
ter Stevens and I caught sight of the smoke
of the Steamer, and called to Bro. Mc.
Cune, (who had been left here to keep us
company,) to come and see, and he too
decided that it was indeed the steamer; of
course that meant that our letters from
home were nearly here, and that our breth-
ren would bring them home with them
when they came from Apia. We at once
proceeded to decorate the house, or parlor,
for “Xmas,” The leaves and grasses here,
suitable for such a purpose, are numerous
and varied, and some, of them are very

