[column 2]
occasion we need only say that everything
was excellent, and all enjoyed the feast of
good things as well as “the feast of reason
and the flow of soul,” also the enchanting
music, and for our dear “Aunt Zina,” as
she is lovingly designated may she live un-
til her soul is satisfied, and always be as
greatly honored and beloved in Israel as she
is at the present time.
	ON Tuesday January 24th, an anniver-
sary party was given by Mrs. Amelia F.
Young widow of the late President Brig-
ham Young, at her residence on S. Temple,
1st West Sts. About forty of her friends
gentlemen and ladies assembled by invitation
to honor the day, being the anniversary of
her marriage thirty years before, it seemed
a fitting time to commemorate, and as Mrs.
Young had been some time abroad and had
recently opened her house, it was quite
pleasant to call together a few of those who
were formerly in the habit of visiting her
in the more “palmy days.” Mrs. Young
had been accustomed to entertain on a
large scale in the late President’s lifetime,
and knows exactly how to manage such
affairs. It is needless to say she is a fine
hostess the fact is well established. On
this particular occasion, there were present
of the Apostles John Henry Smith, Heber
J. Grant, Abraham H. Cannon and Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, with other honor-
able gentlemen and quite a number of
distinguished ladies, too many to mention
separately. The evening passed off delight-
fully, with greetings of old friends, brilliant
conversation and exquisite instrumental
music by Mrs. Young’s niece Miss Folsom.
The refreshments were delicious and
daintily served and the guests were so
charmed that time for parting came all to
soon, ere they were aware of the lateness of
the hour. The one drawback to the en-
joyment was the indisposition of Mrs.
Young’s father, Bro. Folsom, who was not
well enough to attend the party, that evening.
Mrs. Young has, since her return home,
devoted much tmie to the interests of the
World’s Fair exhibit for Utah and is a
very efficient worker in the Salt Lake
County Board.


