Problems to Select From for Class Discussion
1. Explain as clearly as you can what is meant by science and scientific method. Which is the more expert procedure; "accurate observation" or "cautious inference?"
2. Do you think Overstreet is too hard on the rationalizers? (See pp. 191-193). Describe a good recent example of rationalizing that you have observed. How did you know it was really an instance of rationalizing?
3. Mention and describe briefly each of three other rather unworthy types of thinking. What is the relative prominence of each in our lives?
4. What constitutes thinking in the best and most worthy sense of the word? Of what significance is such thinking in human life? Can a person be truly religious who does no such thinking?
What important differences would it make in the world "if we feared the entertaining of an unverifiable opinion with the warmth with which we fear using the wrong implement at the dinner table, (and) if the thought of holding a prejudice disgusted us as does a foul disease"? (Trotter. ) 6. According to the dictionary what is the distinction between a theory and an hypothesis? Explain the steps involved in the gradual development of scientific laws or principles. Read Alma 32:26-43 and see if you can discover such corresponding steps as, for example, non-belief, desire to believe, belief, faith and knowledge in the realm of religious experience. 7. Distinguish between the legitimate kind of doubting involved in worth-while thinking and the kind that should be avoided and warned against. Give an instance that you 127 know of where doubting seemed to be engaged in for the mere sake of doubting. In this connection ccnsider the following quotation from the psychologist Stratton: ''Doubt is a state of incomplete or suspended judgment to be. Distinguished from belief, either in its positive or negative form. Doubt is closely connected with the formation of belief. (Doubt) is useful so long as it tends to make belief more intelligent and more in harmony with wide experience (but it may) far outlive its period of usefulness." 8. Among the "essentials of the thinking process" Strayer and Norsworthy mention, "a state of doubt or uncertainty, resulting in suspended judgment." Colvin and Bagley say that "thinking comes only when a problem is presented or a situation faced, only when a 'crisis' in our behavior arises." The following is from Dewey: "To maintain the state of doubt and to carry on systematic and protracted inquiry? these are the essentials of thinking." Does it follow then that the person who says he "has never had even the least shadow of a doubt about anything pertaining to the gospel" is confessing that he has not done any thinking about it? Do the above quotations furnish a clue as to how to stimulate real thinking? Discuss. 9, Comment on this statement from Tennyson's "In Memoriam:" "There lives more faith in honest doubt, Believe me, than in half the creeds." How would you deal with doubts in religious matters such as are sometimes expressed by adolescent boys and girls? Does the unwillingness to entertain such doubts imply much or little faith in the gospel? 10. Comment on the following 128 quotation from G. M. Stratton in relation to this lesson: "Wihen we are offered new lamps for old, we must test the new to see how much of the old Aladdin-magic they contain, Let us have the new with the least loss."' 11. Mention and briefly explain as many pitfalls of thinking as you can. Discuss the statement: "When a problem is well defined it is half solved." 12, Find these phrases in the last half of the chapter in our text and comment briefly on each: "solemn, self-justifying muddle-headedness," "heresy hunting," "do not know the science," 'a new idea is beginning," "law-makers ill equipped,' "a most exhilarating prospect," "over-rated 'school of experience'," "the prevalent 'drill' technique." 13. Someone has said that the using of isolated Scripture texts according to the Ready Reference pattern, contributes to a never-ending and hopeless mass of rationalizing. It is said that as long as we admit the vaidity of the method our opponents will be tempted to carry the same method to even more ludicrous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE extremes and we go on wrangling forever. What would you substitute for this method? 14. Have you ever been astonished at the way some people are impressed by obscure, mystifying, or even meaningless phrases? They seem so credulous or so unable to think that they fairly revel in a mass of worthless drivel which no one can possibly understand. The more obscure the material is the more sure they seem to feel that it contains important "concealed wisdom." Consider, for example, this sample taken from certain occult literature with which our country is flooded. It is supposed to answer the question as to "WHERE DWELLS THEI AM." It reads thus: "Through involution we are carried back to the nativity or primary life through material form, which is the first expression of love through earth form or upon this earth plane." (This has been carefully checked as a correct quotation.) In your opinion what is the. Relationship between clear thinking and clear expression?