[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: To All Church Members—The First Presidency]

Employment in defense work, service in the army, and attendance at institutions of learning are now taking very many of our young people away from their homes. The spiritual welfare and physical safety and health of all young people are always greatly promoted by their making themselves acquainted with the Bishopric or Branch Presidency of the place in which they are living and by their keeping in close touch with these officers. In too many cases the parents and the Ward Bishoprics appear to fail to advise these young people to associate themselves promptly and actively with the Ward or Branch in the place to which they go or to which they are sent. Too frequently where this has not been done, the young people have had experiences and have fallen into habits which they regret during the remainder of their lives.

Young people of the Church should for their own protection, welfare, and happiness, as also for the happiness, relief from great anxiety, and satisfaction of their parents, identify themselves with the local Church organization in the place where they are resident and take part in Church activities. We therefore earnestly advise all parents to urge their sons and daughters who are so away from home, to get in touch with the Ward officers in the places where they live and to identify themselves with the Church and engage in its activities. We should like the Bishops of the Wards from which these young people go to add their counsel and advice to those of the parents of these young people that when they reach their new homes they get in touch with the local Church officers and engage in Church activities. In order to help the local Church officers, in the places to which they go, to get in touch with these young people and to bring them into Church activity, it would be most helpful if the parents would write to the Bishops of Wards or the Presidents of Branches to which the young people have removed, giving the names and addresses of their children who are there.

Where parents do not know the names of the Bishops or Presidents of Branches to which their children have gone, they can secure them from the Bishop, who will be able to obtain them from the Church Directory. It would be well also for Bishops of Wards from which the young people come to make it a point to write to the new Bishop or President of Branch concerned regarding the same young people, giving such information concerning them as would be helpful to the new Bishop of the Ward or President of the Branch.

Where it is not possible to know the exact Ward or Branch to which the young people have gone, but the Stake is known, then the name and address should be sent to the President of the Stake, who will forward it to the Bishop or Branch President concerned. If the Stake is not known (as it may not be in some of the larger cities), then the name and address of these young people should be sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office in Salt Lake City, which will in turn forward the information to the appropriate officers. We urge the Bishops of Wards and Presidents of Branches in the Wards and Branches to which young people go to use their utmost endeavors to interest the young people in Church work and to bring them into the activities of the Church. If the young people are going to places in which there are no Wards, Branches, or Stakes, then the course suggested above should be followed by informing the President of the Mission within which the young people are to reside. We cannot too strongly urge upon the attention both of parents and Ward and Branch officers the importance of the foregoing instructions.

Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay, The First Presidency.
