[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-BusinessHosiery]
This is true also of those who devote themselves to the work of the auxiliary organizations. Stake workers, who are almost as numerous as the workers in the ward, also serve without earthly remuneration. All of these Church workers render service to others. The Church, therefore, furnishes openings for love and service on a large scale. "He that believeth on me," said Jesus, "the works that I do shall he do also." (John 14:12) In part, at least, this "work" consists of service to others, for we are told that the Master "went about doing good." Jesus also said that his followers were the "salt of the earth" and the "light of the world." One may be the "salt of the earth" and the "light of the world" by being of service to others; by developing, through good works, a character that will be in accordance with the standards set by Christ. The true spirit of service has been beautifully expressed by the Apostle Paul, in the famous thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians: "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Paul includes in this charity, or love, such things as kindness, mercy, and long-suffering patience. "The gift without the giver is bare." In serving, one should give of himself. This has always been emphasized in our Church. There is no end of opportunities for service to our communities. Service to the community consists of helping to get rid of evil and to preserve good. Women who are good homemakers and good mothers, rearing their children to the best of their abilities, are rendering a service which is inestimable to the community and the world. Every woman will be a better wife and mother who gains inspiration and information through LESSON DEPARTMENT attendance at Church, and who, if possible, gives service in an auxiliary organization. The home is enriched and blessed if the mother is an example of faith and service to her Church, and if she inspires devotion and faith in her family. No one can be genuinely happy who does not render some service to his fellow men. 861
Discussion 1. What did Jesus mean when He said, "He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it'? 2. What are some of the services women may render in the home; in their neighborhood; in the Church? 3. Who did Jesus say are our neighbors? Te Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 6
Hosiery (Tuesday, March 10, 1942) A LARGE portion of our clothing budget is used for the purchase of hosiery. In the United States the total outlay for hose amounts to one-half billion dollars each year for about 100 million pairs. Of this vast number, thirty-five percent are full-fashioned hose for women. It is estimated that the average person buys at least one dozen pairs of hosiery a year.
Each woman should know how to select hose that will give her the best possible wear. A knowledge of their construction as well as how to best care for them will enable her to obtain the greatest satisfaction from hose purchased; one should not tely merely upon color and appearance in purchasing hose.
What the consumer should seek when buying hosiery is a combination of style and wearing quality at a price commensurate with the length of service expected.
There is at the present time a lack of adequate standardization with regard to hosiery, and hosiery labels give little information.
Since this is the case at the present time, we must depend on brand names, merchant's reliability, and price, to guide us in our selection. However, there are some points we can look for and some basic information we need to know. First, there are two main types of hosiery: knit-tubular and full fashioned.
Tubular hosiery are cylindrical in shape. The shaping of the hose is done after the stocking is knit.
Silk and rayon circularknit stockings have a seam down the back which stops at the heel; they have mock fashioning marks to simulate the full-fashioned type. Full-fashioned hosiery are knit flat. By decreasing the stitches, the fabric is narrowed to fit the ankles. Full-fashioned hose can be identified by the gap inside of the garter welt. A seam runs from the toe to the heel and up the back with fashion marks on either side of the seam at the calf, just below the welt, at the base of the heel, and at the sole of the foot under the arch. Full-fashioned hosiery are better fitting than circular-knit hose, and retain their shape better after laundering. For men and children, the circular-knit is generally used, since the retention of perfect shape during.
Wear is not an important factor. Circular-knit hosiery are less expensive.
Hosiery may be made from cotton, wool, silk, rayon, or nylon, or from various combinations of these.
Cotton hose give the greatest service for the money invested.
They are less attractive, because cotton yarn is fuzzy and does not dye as well as other fibers, but they withstand severe laundry treatment with fair results.
Wool hose are warmer, but require careful treatment to prevent excessive shrinkage. The wool fiber is often combined with either cotton, silk, or rayon to prevent shrinkage and irritation to the skin.
Hose that are made from spun silk or rayon become fuzzy with wear.
Silk hosiery should be purchased to suit the needs of the wearer. The heavier the thread, the more service can be expected from hose.
Very sheer hose cannot be expected to be very durable.
Hosiery comes in the following weights: chiffon, 2-4 thread count; service chiffon, sthread count; semi-service, 6-7 thread count; medium service, 7-thread count; service, 7-10 thread count; and heavy service.
Hose with a thread count of three are most popular. In purchasing hose, consumers should know the correct size and leg length desirable for the individual who is to wear the hose; they should insist upon that size. The garter welt should be from 3 to 4 inches in width and should stretch from 11 1/2 to 12 inches. In good hose the stretch from the tip of the heel to the top of the instep is from 7 to 7 1/2 inches. For durability, choose the hose with the best reinforcements at the toe, heel, and sole.
Cotton yarns used with silk in the reinforcements of the foot of the stocking add to the wearing quality. The introduction of nylon as a fiber for hose has caused much trouble in the silk market, with the result that much is being done to increase the durability of silk hosiery. A new crepe de Chine silk hose and a lastexfinished hose, said to be snag resistant and as durable as nylon, have been reported. At present we find nylon very tough with a high tensile strength and a high resistance to abrasion; for this reason they seldom wear out in the feet. However, with the increased demand for nylon for other uses, it will be some time before there will be sufficient to meet the demands for it as a hosiery fiber.
Care of hosiery is probably more important than the care of any other article.
Remove all rings and be sure fingernails and skin are smooth when putting stockings on or when laundering them. Put them on by rolling the stocking leg down to the toe.
Slip the foot in and pull the stocking up over the leg. In laundering, use mild soaps dissolved to form a suds.
Squeeze the hose, but do not rub.
Rinse at least twice and hang up carefully to dry on a smooth surface not close to artificial heat. At all times be careful to prevent unnecessary snagging. Too much cate cannot be exercised
