[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: The Spirit Giveth Evans]

% The Spirit Giveth Life Priscilla L. Evans Relief Society General Board Member (Summary of Address Given at Relief Society General Conference, General Session, October 2, 1941) HO can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth.
Safely trust in her.... She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.... She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it; with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard... Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land...
Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. 'She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth -her...
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. (Proverbs 31:10-16; 23; 25-28; 30-31.) This is an ideal. It will live always, for spiritual ideals do not change. Solomon's words describe a "virtuous woman" as one whose life exemplifies all the virtues?personal chastity, loyalty to those nearest and dearest to her. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her; she will do him good and not evil all the days of her life." 'This worthy woman possesses also the virtues of industry, thrift, integrity, kindness, humility, imagination and faith. She "feareth the Lord." Her reward is the one thing most desired by all worthy women: "Her children arise up and call her blessed, and her husband also and he praiseth her." A plea is made for this woman: "Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates."
This plea was not answered in Solomon's time, nor was it fully answered until the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ gave the answer. For to you and to me have been given "the fruits of our hands" and "our own works do praise us in the gates." The women in this audience are Relief Society sisters; their lives exemplify, as nearly as is humanly possible, this ideal woman of Solomon, The women of Nauvoo were perfect examples of this virtuous woman of Solomon.
They went to the Prophet Joseph and asked for some unit through which they might work more effectively and carry on with-. Out waste their charitable efforts in caring for the workmen at the temple.
They were serving as individuals; all their lives they had done all that they possibly could do as individuals, but they felt a need for some organized unit through which to work.
They took to the Prophet a simple set of by-laws that they had drawn up. He told them he had been considering the matter of an organization for them for some time, and added, according to Sister Sarah M. Kimball, who was present at the time, that his plans "were much great greater than any they had in mind."
Their vision was for their immediate needs, but his vision was prophetic ?that we now realize when we view this great organization.
This association, established by the Prophet of the Lord, has something that no other woman's organization has. It was set up by the _Prophet of the Lord, and he breathed into it a spirit, which is its greatest strength.
Unlike any other womans' organization, it is directed by the Priesthood of God; no program is initiated without the approval of those who are entitled to divine inspiration from God.
That is Our greatest strength. Relief Society was organized at a time in our national life when other large organizations came into being, but unlike any of them it is not a protest organization. The great anti-slavery organization was a protest against trafficking in human beings. All the abolitionist organizations which came into being at the beginning of the Civil War were protests against a nation divided against itself in war. The great Suffrage Association was a protest against the discriminations against women. The Women's Christian 'Temperance Association, which is still in existence, is a protest against the manufactyre and sale of liquor. Our organization, on the other hand, is an affirmation organization.
Unlike other organizations, it has no objective which when gained is the end. | Always when one goal is reached, far on is another, for it envisions all good. It is an integral part of the Gospel plan. Now this spirit which we have and must hold to is not a static thing; it is like a plant which grows with nur- 

 ?DECEMBER, 1941 GENERAL CONFERENCE ture and with stimulation. Our organization plans and programs which are given to you in the bulletins, the Magazine, et cetera, are tools or mechanics offered to you for the purpose of stimulating this spirit. You are given the best possible equipment, because all of these plans and programs?or tools?are made with that same spirit which the Prophet Joseph breathed into the organization. In the beginning. ?
They are formed under the guidance of the Lord; they are given to you with the blessing of the Priesthood; they are the best and most efficient tools you could have, but they are only a means to an end, the end being the preservation of the spirit of Relief Society How can we tell whether we are preserving this: spirit which gives life to this organization. I think Sister McConkie gave the answer this morning when she said, "The spirit comes to us and gives us un- 847 derstanding because of individual righteousness."
That is how we can tell. The women must live worthy lives in order that this spirit may be preserved. The great mission of Relief Society is the spiritual enrichment ot the individual. It is more difficult for us to fulfill this mission now in our affluence and security than it was in our poverty and our trial. So in our great strength, our need is for humility; we must seek the Lord always. May we agree with Paul when he said, "Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing, as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God." (II Corinthians 3:5.) 'The Spirit of God does not dwell with self-assurance and vanity. And so I pray that we may all be blessed with continuing strength and humility, that this spirit shall be held inviolate, for in very deed it is only the spirit that giveth life to this organization.