[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and]

John was a good man, a wise man. "Tf there's any way under heaven," John said, "we shall have him." (To be continued) LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony, Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 6
Chapter 6, Baptism Article 4?"We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are:... Third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins... "? (Tuesday, March 3, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To understand the nature and purpose of the sacred ordinance of baptism. II.
Divisions of the Subject Matter II. A. The error of infant baptism. (Articles of Faith, pp. 125- 128, 483-484) B. The nature and purpose of - baptism. (Articles of Faith, Pp. 120-125, 482-483) C. The place of baptism in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, pp. 128-134) Teaching Suggestions The subject matter of this lesson can be effectively presented if the lesson is conducted as though it were a street meeting, with those present being considered as the audience. A. Preparation The class leader should select three sisters to assist in the presentation of the subject matter. If three sisters who formerly served as missionaries can be found, they could probably add a realistic Page 858 atmosphere to the class period. One of the topics listed under "Divisions of the Subject Matter" should be assigned to each of these sisters. The class leader should meet with them and impress upon them the following points: 1.
That they are to thoroughly master the subject matter of the lesson through reading and rereading the text, the supplementary re fe rences and the scriptural references at the end of the chapter. 2.
That they should remember the audience to whom they are to speak, and with this in mind make a choice of material that will hold the interest of the listeners because of its clarity, certainty, and reasonableness. 3.
That they should organize LESSON DEPARTMENT their material for presentation in conversational style; that ma- - terial is to be delivered, not read. At most, a brief outline may be used. The reading of these speeches will destroy the effectiveness of the meeting. A.
Each speech should be organized as follows: (1) An introduction of the subject matter. (2) The ? development of the theme and the presentation of the material. (3) The summary of the points developed during the speech. (4) The conclusion ?a reiteration of the theme of the address. 4.
That each speaker must confine her remarks to the topic assigned, in order to avoid a duplication of that which is to be presented by the other speakers. 5.
That each speaker is to occupy ten minutes for the delivery of the message.. Presentation To more clearly carry out the idea of a street meeting, the class leader, before the day of presentation of this Jesson, might confer with 859 the ward president and the ward chorister and suggest that the opening hymn be one which is frequently used in street meetings, such as, "Israel, Israel, God is Calling," "Redeemer of Israel," "O Say What is Truth," "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." On the day of the meeting, the chairs should be so arranged that the class leader and the three sisters who are to speak can be seated in the front.
When the time for the lesson arrives, the class leader should act as the presiding officer at a street meeting and present the purpose of the meeting and introduce the speakers, after which the speakers should present their talks in a conversational style. At the conclusion of the last speech, the teacher might allow time for questions or a discussion of items presented during the conversation. The meeting should be terminated with an expression of appreciation for the benefits that are derived from the ordinance of baptism and an invitation to the listeners to express their feelings toward this divine ordinance. If this concluding summary is presented with feeling and sincerity, it should form an excellent background and set the theme for a stimulating testimony meeting. 860
References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 6, pp. 120-136, 482-484. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 769-771.  
Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 117-124, 265-267.. Smith and Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 146, 152-153, 162. A (siting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 6