[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Highway for Shoenfeld]
"Highway For Americans" Bernard C. Shoenfeld The following excerpt from a radio program called "Highway For Americans," presented over the Columbia Broadcasting System, July, 1941, was read by Ned Williams, at Relief Society General Conference, Literature Department, October 1, 1941. It is printed in the Magazine with the consent of Bernard C. Shoenfeld, Chief of Radio Section, Division of Information, Office of Emergency Management, Washington, D. C. In introducing Mr. Williams, it was pointed out that humor and our beloved humorous characters have served America?colonial America, Civil War America, pioneering America, America recovering from World War I?in the trying periods of her progress, and that humor will again be a sustaining, saving power in the present national emergency.
They had less right to laugh than we have today... By rights they should have been as serious as Job. Why, just consider: Life is hard, at times unendurable, in those thirteen colonies: Narrator: Yes, in the old days they laughed in America.
They laughed the belly laugh from Manhattan to San Francisco.. And yet they had no right to laugh. 848.  
Grows harder, grows less endurable, At Bunker Hill, at Valley Forge, In the woods near Trenton, the mountains of Ticonderoga, The fields of Virginia, the swamps of Georgia, In Independence Hall. Yet while Franklin plans with others the phrasing of a Declaration... Vorce: When in the course of human events it becomes necessary Narrator: While he dreams of order out of chaos, While he listens to Jefferson: _ Voice: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with the unalienable right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Narrator: While he listens in dead earnest, Ben Franklin yet can joke: FRANKLIN: Three may keep a secret ?if two of them are dead. Narrator: Or he can say this: FRANKLIN: Men are most likely to be cheated in three things?a horse, a wig, and a wife. Narrator: Or he can pull the leg of foreigners by telling them this: FRANKLIN: It is a rare experience to see a whale swimming up Niagara Falls. The grand leap of the whale up Niagara Falls is one of the finest spectacles in nature! Narrator: We give you Ben Franklin, teller of tall tales! Now the task of bringing success to a new free nation begins. Men set forth on high adventure, Trappers, hunters, pioneers, Opening up America in 1790, 1810, 1820, No fun.
Nothing to kick one's heels up about. Now there are Indian wars, and wars with Mexico, Wars between the sheepmer and the cattlemen, Work, hard work, vein-bursting work, To keep a nation going. And yet all over America, jokes and legends?tall tales?and songs are told and sung. Yet there is nothing to sing about or laugh about.
Abolitionists are fierce, speak out for freedom, The South talks of seceding, Men in dark places whisper civil war, Nothing to laugh about.... _ Andyet a_ portly, gold-watch-chained gentleman called Barnum?P. T., Laughs, brings laughter to the ticket-buyers: Barker: Mr. Barnum, at tremendous expense, has transported to this country a real and gigantic monster?Jumbo, largest _ elephant in the world! Also?you will see Zindita' who charms snakes with her eyes?Mr. Pitt, seven feet tall! And the smallest man in the world, Tom Thumb! Also?for your delectation.... The bearded lady!... Oh, Pardon me, mister, my mistake.... Sounp: CROWD LAUGHTER. Narrator: Strange they should find the strength to laugh For the whispers are growing, The prophetic eyes of John Brown GENERAL CONFERENCE.
Bulge with the pressure of the hangman's noose, - The Union is disunited. No time for laughter. -. And yet, Josh Billings makes the slavers and the abolitionists alike Forget antipathy, and chuckle when they read: Buuincs: "The duck is a kind of short-legged hen.
They can sail on the water as natural and easy as a_ grease spot.
