[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Home Accident Prevention No. III]

Home Accident Prevention
No. III
CUTS, LACERATIONS, BRUISES, INFECTIONS

The American National Red Cross, in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention," states that a great many unnecessary cuts and bruises are experienced in the home and on the farm through the careless or improper use or neglect of tools or other objects with sharp or jagged edges. Infection of wounds presents serious dangers. The following simple home activities are suggested to prevent cuts, lacerations, bruises and infections:

I. Pins, Tacks, and Small Objects
Ignorance may excuse an infant when it puts pins or tacks into its mouth, but there is no excuse when grown-ups do it. Keep marbles, beans, lemondrops and similar articles away from small children. They cause many cases of infant strangulation.

II. Broken Glass, et cetera
Broken glass and razor blades should be put into a box and not thrown into the waste basket loose. The accumulation should be disposed of carefully.

III. Wire
Stretch wire carefully, a slip or break of it may cut an artery or put out an eye.

IV. Tools
A sharp ax is a dangerous tool, and should be handled accordingly.
Use a saw with care so as not to cut a finger.
Placing a sharp butcher knife in a drawer with other knives and forks may result in a cut finger.
When using a knife, cut away from the body.
Sharp-edged toys should not be given to small children.
Keep tools stored where children cannot get them. Use care in handling them. Skinned knuckles, cuts and scratches may result in serious infection.
Cans often cause cuts. A sharp can opener prevents a jagged edge on the can.

V. Machinery
Moving parts of machinery should be protected.
Have machines out of gear when oiling, repairing or adjusting them. Discarded tools, machinery, wire fencing, et cetera, should be disposed of to the junkman.
Watch out for nails in loose boards.

VI. Farm Tools and Other Farm Equipment
When pitchforks are not in use, hang them where they belong.
Pulleys should be protected so that hands cannot be caught in them.

VII. Doors, Windows, Screens
Bruised fingers frequently result from being caught by doors, windows and screens; bruises on the head result from insufficient head room in cellars and on stairways. Serious injuries result from car doors being slammed on hands or fingers.