[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Notes for Officers]

NOTES FOR OFFICERS.
It is desired that all presidents and other officers in the Relief Society, in writing to this office, use their own names written in full.
Many are in the habit of using their initials, or their husband's names or initials.
The full names of the sisters are preferred. :
12 .
Within the last year, a few new stakes have been organized and several old stakes have been reorganized with new officers.
It is extremely important that all such changes be reported, as soon as they occur, to the President or General Secretary.
The Board is continually sending matter to the various organizations, and when the records do not show the correct names and addresses of officers, serious delays and inconveniences result.
The members of the General Board are gratified indeed with the excellent showing that has been made by the Stake officers in collecting the 25c annual dues.
In reply to the statement that has come from a few stakes, however, to the effect that they have been unable to collect the dues from some of the members, and therefore have asked if it is necessary for each stake organization to pay 25c for each enrolled member, attention is called to the decision that was reached at a special meeting of the officers held April 5, 1913.
After a long and careful consideration of the financial condition of the Society, the following action was taken ''It was moved and carried unanimously that the 10c membership fee in the Relief Society be increased to 25c for each enrolled member." Those in attendance at this meeting were the members of the General Board and representatives from practically every stake of Zion.
This action was made necessary because the expenses of this great and growing organization have increased very materially in the last few years.
One important item of increased expense is the maintenance of the Relief Society Headquarters, which is a source of pride to everybody connected with the organization.
Another item is the traveling expense which has been increased on account of the fact that we are unable to get rates that were formerly allowed us.
Other individual expenses are continually made necessary in order to sustain with proper dignity the enviable position we hold as the greatest woman's organization in the world.