[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Mental Health During War Allen]

Mental Health During War THE VALUE OF WORK Mark-K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School, American Fork No. II preoccupation with thoughts of oneself is inimical to mental health.
Christ suggested the same thought: "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 16:25) Psychiatrists sometimes speak of the "outflowing wish" as a factor in mental health.
People in.
Mental distress are encouraged to "objectify" their thinking, to lose themselves in their work or in the service of others. In times of distress the "easy way" is to turn our thoughts inward rather than to challenge realities with a will to somehow remake a better world.
Facing concrete tasks changes our inner world, whether the outer world can be changed or not. The best antidote for sorrow and fear is work, for then, as Emerson said, we are "too busy with the crowded hour to fear to live or die." The importance of work as a prerequisite to mental health and high morale is vividly borne out by many recent discoveries.
Psychiatrists in private practice in England report that during the "Munich Period," when anxieties ran high as to the possibility of a terrible conflict, nervous breakdowns increased.
With war imminent, British leaders were so fearful that many of the civilians would break mentally under the Page 308 My prcocee hygienists agree that strain of bombings and deprivations that many psychiatric centers were established throughout the land to care for the anticipated mental casualties. However, when the devastating bombings of English cities began, the cases of mental breakdown actually decreased and the centers had so little use that they were turned to other purposes. Why?
Simply because people were so busy digging themselves out of the debris and attempting to get their families together that they had no time to think of petty personal troubles which previously had occupied so much of their time.
People most subject to nervous ailments are often those with little to do but to think of themselves. In England, the well-to-do classes did not endure the strain so well as did the poorer classes. Dr. R. D. Gillespie, British psychiatrist, offers this explanation: "They (the poor) don't suffer from competition, don't worry about keeping up appearances when everything is gone." He also finds that the number of neuroses among women who were formerly idle has greatly decreased now that almost everyone in England has some important, absorbing war work to do, with little time to brood over personal troubles. An uncertain dread is usually worse than a dreadful certainty. Mira, a Spanish psychiatrist, reported sur- prisingly few mental disorders resulting directly from war shock, during the recent Spanish revolution.
Human nature, in most cases, has enormous capacity for adapting to apparently unbearable circumstances, when put to the test.
Most people take crisis with unexpected courage when it finally comes. Many Americans have better mental health now that we are in a total war than when we were worrying about getting into one. To return to the value of work as a factor in mental hygiene, interesting confirmation of the psychiatric findings in England is found in American sociological studies of persons on relief.
Surveys of persons on direct relief revealed that they were less happy than those on "work relief." Likewise, among persons drawing old age pensions, those who had some simple work to do were definitely happier than those without work. Old people with hobbies, however simple they might be, were 'definitely happier. The truth that to be happy one must keep busy is as old as man.
Equally valid is the truth that wholesome occupations are the best means of combating fear and grief. WARS usually go through three rather distinct stages, which are associated with certain stages in the development of group morale. The first stage is the "period of milling around," or confusion over the possibility of war.
Anxiety often is very great during this period.
There are likely to be factional disputes, lack of common purposes, and confusion of public opinion.
Next comes the period of actual entry into war. We are now going through this period of the early stages of war.
This is a time of rapid unification and clarification of purpose.
Much confusion and considerable anxiety as to the effectiveness of our effort may still exist.
There have been few major victories to offset the many defeats we have already suffered. We are going through many "growing pains" in arriving at full military maturity.
Habits and attitudes must be radically revised. For the first time in many of our lives, individual liberties and satisfactions must be sacrificed on a large scale to the common good. It takes some time for such drastic changes to seem real to us. We are reconstructing the pattern of living so that it makes sense in the light of critical new problems. As we succeed in seeing our way through this confusion and as we adjust our habits and attitudes to new requirements, morale is certain to improve. If our war effort succeeds, we soon may enter into the third stage, the period of offensive action, which will be a period of victories.
Depending upon our success, morale will improve very rapidly during this period. But should we fail, our morale would undergo a very critical test. Our personal losses would be great, and fatigue and discouragement would then endanger morale.
Before the period of offensive action can really begin, morale must reach a fairly high level.
What can we as citizens do now to achieve this goal as soon as possible? Joseph Smith counseled our people that "if ye are prepared ye shall not fear." (Doctrine and Covenants 38:30) Fear comes from thinking that we MENTAL HEALTH DURING WAR: THE VALUE OF WORK 309 310 lack control of the conditions which threaten us.
Fears may arise from lack of knowledge of true conditions, or they may result from accurate appraisal of threatening circumstances.
Fear today is normal and valuable if it leads to energetic action to prevent imminent disaster. To fight fear, be prepared!
Develop skills that help prevent the disaster that threatens. The armed forces improve in morale when they teceive weapons and tools to do their job, and to the extent that they develop military skills.
Soldiers and civilians alike will feel better as concrete progress is seen in building the tools, making the preparations, and developing the skills commensurate to this tremendous task of winning the war. To win this war should be the primary aim, directly or indirectly, of every citizen in everything he does until the war is over. In the present stage of the war, many people are eager for something to do.
Leadership to direct us individually and collectively is very vital, Morale improves under authoritative direction by respected leaders. We feel a new confidence in our ability to do when our Jeaders clarify our tasks by well-directed orders.
Already many younger women are answering the call to full-time defense employment.
Demands for this service are likely to increase. All. Able-bodied women who cannot serve the national welfare better in their own homes will probably be expected to contribute their full effort wherever they can take the place of men.
Women of England have 'found a new and interesting life in defense work.. 'Their work helps disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 sipate fears and makes sorrows more endurable.
Those who cannot do full time defense work, may find duties in the civilian defense program. 'This program is rapidly taking form; and when the time comes, all women who are able should avail themselves of the opportunity to serve wherever possible.
Personal sacrifices by those at home sustain our boys in the service in their courage and will to win.
Families are thus brought shoulder to shoulder in the common cause of nighteousness, though oceans and continents may separate them.
This helps the morale of everyone. OTHER means of serving are to be found through the Red Cross program. One cannot help but be impressed with the personal satisfaction people derive from doing their part in this work.
Group activities of this kind are most helpful in building morale.
Courses in first aid, home nursing, nutrition, and other practical subjects prepare us for emergencies and give us the  courage that comes with skill.
Some people gain much from gardening., Projects of this kind may be of great value in promoting mental and physical health.
Vegetable gardens may help provide food in time of emergency and thereby contribute to the national welfare. However, this type of gardening should be carefully planned in advance.
Unless one has proper soil, adequate time, knowledge, and __ physical strength, vegetable gardening should not be undertaken.
Failure and waste of material will help neither morale nor the national larder.