[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Trends in Olsen]

Copies will be mailed as soon as the book is off the press, and should be received sometime in June. Trends In Textiles And Their _ Effect On The Consumer Margaret Olsen Utah State Agricultural College E'TTING our money's worth in '& clothing and household textiles used to be a subject we talked about and, at times, even considered carefully; but never before has it reached the point of being a national virtue, a patriotic duty as it has today.
Getting our money's worth from the fabrics we consume is one way we have of helping our country in the fight ahead. The conditions facing the consuming public will call forth all the ingenuity, carefulness, and _thriftiness we can exercise. An article in the March Textile World states: "If the war lasts long enough and it looks as if it will last plenty long  the textile industry will be reduced largely to the business, first, of clothing the armed forces; second, of supplying needed industrial fabrics to the arsenal of democracy; and third (and a poor third), of producing utility fabrics which will keep the mass of civilians decent, if not beautiful."
With the news that fifteen million persons are to be employed in activities directly related to the war by the end of 1942, in addition to several million in the armed forces, we realize that the supply of civilian goods must be drastically curtailed.
There will not be enough raw materials and labor to meet the demands of war or the demands of civilians at customary levels. And so we see the introduction of Page 338 new products for our armed forces, the substitution of synthetic for natural fibers that are now needed in certain war products, and the search for substitutes for the civilian consumer whose regular supply has been stopped or diverted to defense channels. In spite of the efforts of all concerned, chaotic conditions have resulted.
Just what has happened? Not a pleasant picture, to be sure, but one which we will have to face one which is increasing in severity each month, and which will no doubt continue, in many respects, as the war continues. We are not a self-sufficient country in the production of textile fibers.
This fact we more and more realize as shipping lanes become blocked and cut off.
Silk articles since January 1 have been found on the list of merchandise fast becoming depleted.
Probably we would not have missed silk quite so much if it were not that nylon, too, is fast being relegated to the list of non-availables.
Nylon is needed by the Government to replace silk in the defense industry. Our entire national supply of wool is needed for army uniforms. No more one hundred percent virgin wool materials will be manufactured for civilian use.
Linen is scarce.
Jute and hemp from the Philippines cannot be obtained. Cotton, the chemical yarns, and other substitutes.
Will have to supply us with our necessities, and even these will be more and more needed for defense materials as other materials prove insufficient in amount.
This is the picture in all its unpleasantness, but we can be sure that manufacturers will draw upon their technical resources in a determined effort to maintain standards _of beauty and service within the ever-narrowing range of available 'fibers and yarns.
Much effort has been put forth to treat rayon yarns so that they will make satisfactory hosiery material. As yet, rayon is not as good for hosiery as either silk or nylon lacking in elasticity, and durability when wet.
Rayon hose have been made, however, with reasonably good wearing qualities and are rapidly being improved.
Cotton lisle and mesh hose have been made in styles particularly attractive for sportswear.
Though cotton hosiery prices are high at present, more universal use will no doubt bring about a decrease in their cost.
Hose should be purchased according to the purpose for which they will be used. 'This means buying sheer hose only for dressy occasions.
Reworked and re-used wools will be used to replace virgin wool. 'Though probably lower in such qualities as resilience and elasticity, these wools if originally of good quality can be made into fabrics which will wear exceedingly well.
Combined with wool will be found more and more rayon, cotton, and the new proteinbase casein fiber made from milk and known as Aralac.
Another extremely interesting fiber, heretofore wasted, is the fiber made from the bark of the huge redwood trees of California. It, too, can be combined with wool to make materials.
Continued experimentation, no doubt, will find many other synthetic and substitute fibers establishing their reputation with the American people.
Chemicals used in dyes are needed in the manufacture of explosives.
Dyes are needed for uniforms.
Shortages within the dyestuff industry can affect consumer goods in several ways.
Either numerous but unsatisfactory colors will make their appearance in consumer goods or limited colors that are fast and serviceable will come into the markets.
Already we note a smaller color range and fewer colors within a print. And so we find that consumer's goods are on the way to being simplified with reduction in number of sizes, colors, and variety of fabrics. ITHOUT becoming involved in the intricacies and complexities of price fixing, we need to understand that at first prices based on the loose definitions and classifications used by the trade control boards did not work out as expected.
They led to confusion, evasion, cheapened quality, and elimination of some fabrics which are essential to consumers.
Some mills used less raw materials in their fabrics.
Others dropped the manufacture of some pes of fabrics and concentrated on those with the highest profit margin under the terms of the order.
Shortages in essential fabrics developed.
Groups of fabrics not covered by the "ceilings" advanced to excessively high levels. As these problems are discovered and met, improvements will take place.
With the increased purchasing power of the nation has come an increased demand for clothing.
Increased demand and decreased supTRENDS IN TEXTILES AND THEIR EFFECT ON THE CONSUMER 339 340 ply have been accompanied by increased prices.
Prices will increase unless "'ceiling" prices are set on goods by the Government. "Ceilings" alone, however, are not enough unless quality standards are set, as has been done on bed sheets.
When the Office of Price Administration fixed maximum prices for manufacturers to charge for bed "linens" sold after March 2, 1942, sheets were set on a basis of four grades according to thread count, as follows: 180, 140, 128, and 112.
Minimum standards were set up for each.
Each sheet or pillowcase sold by a manufacturer must bear a label which tells its type and size. In purchasing sheets or pillowcases always ask to see the label. It should not be removed by the retailer. If it falls below specifications for that type, it must be labeled as substandard.
Such specifications as number of yarns per square inch, weight per square yard, breaking strength, width of hems, number of stitches per inch, type of selvage, and amount of sizing should be given.: Before buying textiles for household use, shop around.
Compare prices in several stores and also compare them with those you paid a year ago.
Prices will be higher than those paid a year ago, but should not be excessively so.
Refuse to pay exorbitant prices. E must, somehow, in spite of rising prices, high taxes, saving for the future, and restrictions on buying, be able to stretch our money incomes to cover as many as possible of our wants which do not interfere with war needs. We can no longer be careless in our selection of materials especially since rapid proRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 duction in an effort to meet consumer needs, as well as greed and desire to capitalize on the national situation, have led to many materials of poorer quality being placed on the market. We must know as much as possible what we are buying.
Watch prints to be sure they are on the straight of the material.
Look for flaws in every foot of all types of  material you buy. Be sure the sales person either tears the cloth or pulls a thread before cutting off your piece of material. A few inches saved on each piece of cloth may make quite a difference in the cost of a dress. A number of factors influence the correct choice of materials, and many of these can only be learned from experience. However, before you spend a cent know exactly what you mean to buy.
Each person must 'choose according to his needs present and future.
Choose wisely.
Buying on impulse is unforgivable in these times.
Durability should probably top the list in almost everything we buy, but wearing qualities are influenced by many factors.
With materials and fibers changing, it is difficult to give definite and unfailing durability guides.
Some guides can be given, however, that always hold true. Closer, firmer weaves generally wear better, shrink less, pull less at the seams, and hold their shape longer.
Tightly twisted yarns that are free from loops and nubs for catching or wearing off give better service.
Learn to read and understand labels; at no time have they been more necessary than at present. "Will it wash?" should be asked by everyone.
With chemical shortages increasing, dry cleaning fluids will become scarcer and more expensive.
Everything needs to be chosen with an eye to its affinity for soap and water.
Most cotton materials will launder, but check on shrinkage, color fastness, and permanency of finishes.
Many of our rayons are unstable. By this we mean they may shrink or stretch. At one washing they may react one way; at another, another way. You need assurance as to how rayon will perform. All Tayons are weaker when wet, and require special care. In spite of the utmost care in selection, a factor just as important in the life of the garment is the care given it.
Find out at the time an article is purchased how it should be cared for.
Care for it in that way. We must take care of our goods in order to make them last as long as possible. We must use them until they really wear out.