[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Lucy Frontispiece]

Lucy Mack Smith was the mother of seven sons and three daughters who were taught habits of piety, gentleness and reflection.
They were instructed in the various branches of an ordinary education. Precepts, MAGAZINE Lucy Mack Smith Donnette S. Kesler
MAY 1942 accompanied by the example of their parents, made impressions on the minds of these children never to be forgotten. Mother Smith, as she was called, accepted the mission of her son, the Prophet Joseph, from the first. It was to her Joseph showed first the "Key," as he called it which was the Urim and Thummin; and after taking home the breastplate, she was the first, and as far as known the only woman except Emma, to handle it. At the death of her husband, Lucy writes: "I then thought that the greatest grief which it was possible for me to feel had fallen upon me in the death of my beloved husband  but when I entered the room, and saw my murdered sons extended both at once before my eyes, and heard the sobs and groans of my family, and the cries of 'Father! Husband! Brothers!' from the lips of their wives, children, brothers, and sisters, it was too much. I sank back crying to the Lord in the agony of my soul, 'My God, my God, why Page 295 296 hast thou forsaken this family!' A voice replied, 'I have taken them to myself, that they might have rest.' As for myself, I was swallowed up in the depths of my afflictions... At that moment how my mind flew through every scene of sorrow and distress which we had passed together, in which they had shown the innocence and sympathy which filled their guileless hearts. As I looked upon their peaceful countenances, I seemed almost to hear them say, 'Mother, weep not for us, we have overcome the world by love; we carried to them the Gospel, that their souls might be saved; they slew us for our testimony, and thus placed us beyond their power; their ascendency is for a moment, ours is an eternal triumph.' " In the general conference in Nauvoo, October 8, 1845, Mother Lucy was invited upon the stand. "She spoke at considerable length and was heard by the large assembly. She warned parents that they were accountable for their children's conduct; advised them to give them books and work to keep them from idleness; warned all to be full of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 love, goodness and kindness, and never to do in secret what they would not do in the presence of millions.: "Here, in this city," said she, "lay my dead my husband and children; and if it so be the rest of my children go with you (and I would to God they may all go), they will not go without me; and if I go I want my bones brought back, in case I die away, and deposited with my husband and children here." Mother Lucy took great interest in the Relief Society. She counseled with the sisters, encouraged them, and bore testimony to the truth of the Gospel. She was obedient and reverent, and after the martyrdom she gave her full support to Brigham Young and the 'Twelve Apostles. She was commanding in appearance, keen in intellect, dignified and gracious in manner, hospitable and generous. From the time of the removal of the Church to the Rocky Mountains until her death, May 5, 1855, she remained with her family in Nauvoo.