[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: To Latter-day Saint Presidency]

Jo Latter-Day Saint Mothers a a boy has a good mother he is apt to be just like her, and if a mother works early and late, the boy is very apt to work early and late too.... I rejoice in the Gospel. I rejoice in being able to say to you good sisters than whom there are no better you are the salt of the earth."  President Heber J. Grant. ("Relief Society Conference Address,'' September 1937, Relief Society Magazine January 1938.) 's7HE most disinterested, the truest, the holiest thing we know in our whole mortal existence is the mother's love; and its depth, its wisdom, its sympathy, its forgiveness, its hope, its belief, its compassion and faith, are the nearest the divine that we can know here. For the great hazard our mothers togk when we came, for their care when we were sick, for their watchfulness when we were well, for their hope and for their faith in us, for their prayers and entreaties in our behalf, we are grateful beyond measure. For their patience with and forgiveness for our follies, mayhap our sins, always beyond our merits, we give thanks.. "Without the influence of their counsel, the inspiration of their example, we should be weak and frail indeed.'  President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (Address, 21st Ward, Salt Lake City, Sunday, May 14, 1933.) ONE of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood. It is to the home we must look for the inculcation of the fundamental virtues which contribute to human welfare and happiness....
Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life.... God bless you mothers home builders, angels of mercy! May your influence continue to spread, and your sweet, tender services bring comfort and consolation to those in need."  President David O. McKay. ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," Relief Society Magazine, January 1940.) THE COVER  The Fifteenth Ward Relief Society Hall, Salt Lake City, is reproduced on the cover of this issue of the Magazine.
According to "Circular of Instructions,' published in. The Relief Society Magazine, March 1915, this building was erected at a cost of $5,500, and was the first Relief Society hall to be dedicated. Sarah M. Kimball, president of the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, laid the cornerstone in 1868, using a silver trowel and mallet. The erection of Relief Society halls where the women might conduct their varied work was an important activity in the early, days of the Society in the West. The ground floor of many of the halls was used for Relief Society cooperative stores, as was the case with the Fifteenth Ward hall. Vol. 29 No. 5 S the prophets of old saw in vision the "Fullness of Times" with the mission of the prophets and leaders of our day, think you they failed to see also their helpmates? It is wonderful to think that as Mary was chosen to be the mother of our Savior, other mothers were chosen to bring forth through the centuries His special servants. A seer shall the Lord my God raise up who shall be a choice seer, fruit of my loins. And his name shall be called after me, and it shall be after the name of his father. Lucy (meaning "born at dawn'), the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Hyrum the Patriarch, was born July 8, 1776, at Gelsum, Cheshire County, New Hampshire, near the dawn of the greatest of days.