Greetings to the Relief Society
Address given at Relief Society Conference April 4, 1935, By Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.
This is an absolutely new picture for me to look into this sea of faces—faces of the mothers of Israel, and I am thrilled through and through. My innermost desire is that the Lord will cause me to say something that will comfort, that will strengthen you, that will take away care, that will soothe you and free you from any anxiety and inspire you with the assurance that the Lord is at the helm, and that His work moves on gloriously, and that we are a select people, people of the Most High God, not a people that are vain, not a people who take unto themselves any feeling of superiority, but a people who are favored, a people who know the Lord's program, a people unto whom He has revealed knowledge that has been withheld from the world, not knowledge that we like to withhold from the world, but knowledge that is withheld from the world because they cannot understand it.
I just came out of the Temple. I received my assignment to come to you, just a few minutes ago, in time enough to walk across and into this meeting. I sat in that Holy House today in deep meditation. I have listened to the prayers of men—chosen men—who knelt before the altar of the Lord and pled the cause of Zion—not only the cause of Zion, but the cause of the world. They plead, if it were possible, that God would withdraw the world from the approaching dismal depths of a world war; that He would particularly guard, guide and direct the destinies of this great nation of which we form a part; that He would make His people—the people of this Church—the light upon a hill; that He would, through the channel that has been appointed speak His word, reveal His mind, offer His warning, and care for His own.
To whom and upon whom do we depend? I know the answer first would be "the Lord." The answer is right, but I must add to it also—those who speak by divine authority, the Priesthood, upon the mothers, upon the wives, the sisters, those who love peace, who cleave to righteousness, those whose hearts are inclined to God.
I greet this great organization. The parent of all auxiliaries in the Church, one of the greatest of all the organizations. I am fresh from the mission field—I feel and sense the importance of Relief Society work better than I ever have at any other time in my life, as a converting factor, as a stabilizing factor, as an administering organization. We had a very practical, a very fine man come out in the mission, he was a High Councilman, he was a man of force, and his first introduction of himself was something like this: "I am here, I am available, I will give the best that is in me, but it is not my training, it is not my experience to quote the Scriptures, the Word of God. Converted—yes, in every fibre of my body. I am acquainted with men and women and their manner of life, and with the world. I know how to meet people; I love all my contact with men and women, but what shall I do in this brief period of time out in the mission?"—"Brother, you are old enough, you are experienced enough, you are sound enough in all of your fundamentals. We will just vary the mission rule to this extent, we will not tie you down to the responsibility of traveling two and two. Go out into this unbelieving world, find a way to offer to them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to testify to the fact that you are out here appointed and commissioned to speak in the name of the Lord, sent as an ambassador of the Lord Jesus Christ."
He went out and did not try, in the brief time he was there, to acquaint himself with chapter and verse of the Holy Scripture, and to teach people, if it were possible, the difference between the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as it has been restored and the Gospel as they have it and teach it in the world, but he said: "I was led. Some women had given notice that they were holding a meeting, and that they were discussing the question: 'What can we do to throw a safeguard around our children and bring them into the Church and into the service of our Father?' He said men were invited, although it was a ladies' organization. A few men were courageous enough to venture into that meeting. Women arose and discussed and offered suggestions; "finally," said he, "I felt constrained, I felt impressed that I should stand up and say what we do and what we are doing. So with an explanation of how we meet the situation with trained mothers, how we train the mothers and prepare them to care for the children, I launched out and gave them an outline of Relief Society work. We save, we conserve to the Church the best that there is, that which is born in it, and that which grows up with it, and we do it through these mothers."—"Then give us your views on how to train children," I was asked. "I was acquainted with the Primary work, and I gave the explanation." He was invited here and there, to clubs, to societies, to those who were seeking, and all he gave was as best he could the outline, the efforts put forth in this Church through these auxiliary organizations. He had more invitations to speak and explain than he could fill. He came back saying, "I will tell you what we need in the mission more than anything else. The world is full of theory, the world is anxious to see something in operation, something that works, something that is tangible. If we had it so that we could put it on a reel, if we could film it, and could show the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the world as it is actually functioning and operating, it would do more than all the tracts you can distribute, it would do more than all the visits which the Elders make from time to time."
The Church in its organization is perfect, teaching every soul from the aged to those in the cradle. We know the way is perfect but the Lord deals with the imperfections with which we are beset. The great question, the question we must all answer is: How do we, in the places we are appointed to fill, acquit ourselves? To you, the question is: Is there a due appreciation in the heart of every mother, of her home? Does she know that her highest relationship is to be a true mother in Israel? Does she love her relationship standing by a righteous man? Does she love her responsibility leaning over a cradle? Is she a queen as she moves about in her home? Are her children jewels? Is she saintly and sweet in their sight? To her husband, does she furnish a companionship and maintain a sweet relationship that brings heaven into a home and makes every soul therein happy? Has she ceased to court? Is the day of married life a drudgery or is it a holy consummation? Does she rise up and call her husband blessed? Does he put his hand under her chin and look into her care-worn face and pronounce her beautiful? Does he praise her as the comrade of his youth, as the wife of his bosom—as an eternal part of him? Are they "one," each a complement to the other? Is motherhood the greatest blessing that can come? Are children truly the heritage of the Lord? Has the Lord designated it as it should be? Does a man cleave unto his wife and none other? Does she find joy in all the good that comes to her husband? Does he know that back of him, that opens up all these possibilities, is a sweet power, a righteous power, a saving power, a chaste, virtuous, faithful, untiring soul—a wife?
It has been my high privilege to travel over land and sea. Never did the sun go down without in my heart I could feel, and in the vision of my mind I could see the children in my own home, not by compulsion, but with tenderness and sweetness, drawn to the knee of their mother where they lisped their prayers, and looked to God for help. That is as it should be.
The qualifications for living and for service in a woman or a man are identical. When the Lord declared to the father of Joseph the Prophet—that father who had such great faith, said to his son, after the son had reported the visit of Moroni to him, "The thing is of God," and he knew it from then henceforth. He came to his son and said: "Inquire of the Lord what there is for me to do." I think perhaps I could not do better than to turn for a moment and read to you the glorious words the Lord gave in answer to this inquiry:
"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day.
"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work:
"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work."
These qualifications you may apply to women as to men. These are the qualifications for every sister within the sound of my voice—they are the unchanging things, of which Sister Lyman has talked to you. Truth never changes, God's Word never fails. These qualities that He names in this revelation are qualities that endure forever. Faith—is there a mother here who cannot go with full trust unto her Father in Heaven, knowing that He hears and answers prayers. We turn to God with faith—faith, hope, charity. This is the great institution of charity. Charity is in part physical, but that is only a small part. To see me with my struggles, to see me with my weakness and know my weakness and whisper hope to me—that is charity. Charity and love with an eye single to the glory of God. Do not be looking for praise. Yours is a more holy duty than that. Yours is silence, yours is unseen, yours is service, beautiful service, and the reward that comes is that which speaks to the soul. The Lord says that it shall be single to the glory of God.
Remember faith. Oh, I would like to preach faith, virtue, knowledge. Virtue before knowledge? I think He revealed in another revelation "Let virtue garnish your thoughts unceasingly, then shall the doctrine of the priesthood distill upon your souls as the dews from heaven." God's way is perfect. We are right, we know it. Let this great organization—the first of the auxiliary organizations—never neglect the old, bless their souls, but the young are the problems, the young that have been brought in out of life's highway, and are shut out. The young women who have the thousand cares; the young women who think the world has forgotten and is moving on without them and they feel lonely, and would like to be in the marching procession. Draw them into your great organization, enhance the beauty of your organization with their youth, their zest, with their understanding, and still let tenderness and sweetness be ministered unto those who are older. Let this organization be one among others, that shall build up faith. I want to leave this finally and last: Faith in whom? Faith in God our Father, faith in Jesus Christ our Lord. Closer than that, faith in those whom the Lord our God has called. Closer than that, faith in your husbands who bear the Holy Priesthood; faith in your son who is called into the ministry, and faith of a mother in the dignity of the calling of a son, a faith that would have him feel at the age of twelve years as Jesus felt when he answered Mary, his mother: "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?"
I beg of you mothers warn your sons and prepare them for the day when God shall give them a ministry and by the laying on of hands, they shall receive the Holy Priesthood, and let them feel the spirit that came to the Lord our God, "I must be about my Father's business." Such will bring you glory that the world can never offer. Any woman whose son can stand and look her in the face and call her blessed, and she can look upon her son and say, "The Lord hath given me a son, a man, in His own image, after His own heart" is greatly blessed.
Do not look for the passing thrills of life. They will not bring you enduring joy, they will fade into insignificance, but these Holy things will endure forever. God bless you in your organization, your leadership, all of you in your ministry, in your sweet singing, and all who contribute to the building of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, that eternal institution which endures forever, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.