The Prevention of Crime Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, April 3, 1935 By Dean Milton Bennion RIME cannot be overcome by C repressive measures alone, but rather by a constructive program of character education in the home, the church, the school and the community at large. _ This constructive program involves not only development of high individual and social ideals, but also reconstruction of the forms and functions of organized society that all may share in the work of the world and thereby be lifted above beggary and want; these are among the breeders of crime. Honest work and a just share in its rewards are great stabilizing factors in life. Justice calls for a society so organized as to provide all with opportunity to work. This follows from the principles laid down by the fathers of our country in the Declaration of Independence. The right to life carries with it the right to an opportunity to make a living. Liberty without opportunity is an empty term, and pursuit of happiness is a great illusion for millions of Americans today. For these the right to work is more urgent than are the general abstract rights embodied in American patriotic oratory. There should be cooperation of all social agencies of a community to make that community an ideal place for young people to grow into responsible, law-abiding citizens. The power of example is not restricted to the home, it is also a most important factor in community life. If the adult population practices or tolerates vice and dissipation what can be expected of the youth of the community? Yet many adults bemoan THE PREVENTION OF CRIME the sins of youth without seeing that these sins are in large measure due to the example of their elders and the general indifference of adult citizens toward community morality. The first step, therefore, in the prevention of crime is a thoroughgoing community house cleaning. Right now is an opportune time to put out of business the dance halls, the beer gardens, and such other places that have taken advantage of beer-selling privileges to engage in more lucrative and questionable sidelines. Why should anyone be allowed to profit either directly or indirectly by any business that contributes in any way toward the corruption of youth? Only business that renders a real service should be tolerated. "THE normal human being is natturally social; this characteristic is strongly manifest in children and youths and is expressed in their gangs, clubs, and societies; these may become agencies for either good or evil. Organized adult society should see that these junior organizations are under leadership that will make them agencies for social good. Keep in close, sympathetic touch with the leaders of these groups. Help them to develop high group standards by which individual standards and practices are largely determined. Lead the youth to foresee the consequences of various types of conduct and thus enable him to direct his own course intelligently. This applies to groups as well as to individuals. Cultivation of the moral imagination is a much neglected phase of 347 education. It should begin in the home. Lead children early to foresee the possible consequences of certain activities and so to refrain from doing things that are likely to turn out unhappily for either themselves or others. This will forestall much evil doing and shut off one approach to crime. Ig is not enough to be a student of child nature in general. Every one responsible for child training should study the nature of each individual. Mothers know very well that no two are alike. Adults should have regard for the interests of the child and not make unnecessary demands that run counter to his purposes. As every adult should be treated as an end in himself and never as a means, so also should the child. This principle should determine what kinds and how much work may be assigned children at various age levels; it should also be the determining factor in child labor legislation.. Treat the child sympathetically but firmly. A wavering parent loses control. Nevertheless a mistake on the part of the parent should be readily admitted and corrected; but be careful always to avoid hasty judgments, often based upon inadequate information or on mere emotional upset. Take account of the transition from childhood to youth. Do not continue to treat the youth as though he were a child. He resents it. Give him a chance to grow up mentally and morally as well as physically.