Janet Murdoch Thompson By Margaret C. Pickering
"A good heart, benevolent feelings, and a balanced mind, lie at the foundation of character. Other things may be deemed fortuitous; they may come and go; but character is that which lives and abides, and is admired long after its possessor has left the earth."—John Todd.
JANET MURDOCH THOMPSON is the eldest daughter in a family of five living children of the late David Lennox and Elizabeth Thyne Murdoch. She was born August 8, 1884, in a house built by Dr. Karl G. Maeser, the great pioneer educator, at 69 G Street, Salt Lake City, and she has lived there the greater part of her life. It has always seemed to the Murdoch family that the exalted spirit of the builder remained in that home and served as an inspiration to them. Both parents of Mrs. Thompson were born in Scotland and were married there. Following their arrival in Salt Lake, they were reunited in the Endowment House. Mr. Murdoch enjoyed a long and distinguished career in business and religious affairs. At the time he joined the Church, he was serving in London as secretary to Mr. Wm. W. Whitelaw, member of parliament. He was widely known as a man of scholarly attainments and notable integrity. In 1905 Mr. Murdoch returned to his native land to preach the gospel. In 1907 Mrs. Murdoch and Janet went abroad to join him. On this trip Mrs. Thompson had the pleasure of accompanying her parents on a visit to their birthplaces. As a girl, Mrs. Murdoch attended Dollar Academy near Glasgow and was an accomplished pianist, having mastered that instrument she was also a member for years of the Glasgow Choral Society in the early days of its development. Reared in an atmosphere of stability and refinement, Mrs. Thompson reflects these qualities. In her the practical and the aesthetic are ideally blended.
Mrs. Thompson was educated in the Salt Lake City schools and the L. D. S. College. She is well known as a musician and has given generously of her talent. She was married to Jerrold E. Thompson September 29, 1909, in the Salt Lake Temple, and from him has received whole-hearted support and encouragement in all her activities. This same attitude of loyalty is shown by her sister, Mary, who makes her home with them. They have no children but their home has always been a popular gathering-place for their many nephews and nieces. Mr. And Mrs. Thompson are lovers of the outdoors and for many years their vacations have been spent in motoring to points of interest throughout the country.
Since she was old enough to do so, Mrs. Thompson has taken an active part in Church work. Her first official duties were in the Sunday School, followed by work in Mutual and Primary, both as teacher and organist. She was Ward President of the Primary Association in the 20th Ward for years. She served for thirteen years in the presidency of the Ensign Stake Primary Association. Seven years ago she became a member of the Relief Society board of Ensign Stake acting as organist. In 1931 she became president. Her administration has been characterized by a well-balanced program along both practical and aesthetic lines. On the practical side she has sought to standardize relief to the needy, to develop their strength and raise their morale; to relieve ward presidents of responsibilities that could be assumed by others. On the aesthetic side a cultural program was planned whereby all who wished to do so could participate. On "work" day, new forms of handcraft and home decoration were developed with a view to bringing more comfort and beauty into the homes of the members. A demonstration of this work was given by Ensign Stake during the recent general Relief Society Conference.
Believing that "language is a temple in which the soul of those who speak it is enshrined"—a class in speech and vocabulary building was given in each ward last year. This year a class in social culture has been conducted with a view to making daily contact easier and more agreeable and life more beautiful and impressive.
Mrs. Thompson is blessed with a sunny disposition, alertness, integrity and a wealth of common sense. She has the ability to draw people to her and to inspire them to function at their best. Reinforced by humility—the essence of true religion—she goes forth to her work on the General Board eminently qualified. The love and good wishes of her many friends accompany her.