Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
June—Earth clothed in her loveliest garb invites exultant youth to new adventures.
Queen Mary was never more regal than when in all her court splendor she greeted alike the humblest and proudest of her people during the silver jubilee of her reign.
Lady Astor, one of the most publicized leaders of the British Parliament, was a forceful speaker in behalf of equality for women at the conference of the Suffrage Alliance held in Istanbul.
Pandita Ramabai 40 years ago attended the World's Congress of Women in America and made an impassioned plea in behalf of the children of India. Is her work forgotten? Now, after years of grace, Mother India is again permitting mass child marriage ceremony.
Ethiopian women are being drafted to serve in the war now threatened between Italy and Abyssinia.
Josephine Winslow Johnson, Zoe Akins, both of Missouri, and Aileen Orlip of New Jersey, are three women Pulitzer prize award winners for 1934. Miss Johnson won the $1,000 award for her first novel, "Now In November," Miss Akins for her play, "Old Maid," $1,000. And Miss Orlip the annual art scholarship of $1,500.
Jane Addams who died May 21st, received distinct homage in the first world round peace broadcast last month from many noted people. Mrs. Roosevelt gave a reception and dinner in Miss Addams honor at the White House, where she was hailed as "The truest American and none braver."
Lady Duff Gordon, leader in style creation and designer of Lucile models, died last April in London.
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, daughter of the great pioneer, Brigham Young, died last month. She was prominent in civic and church circles and much beloved for her many graces.
Amy Mollinson, intrepid aviatrix, feels much safer in the air. Her only accident thus far was while riding in an auto.
Helen Stephens, a high school girl of Missouri, threatens to take the laurels from "Babe Didriksen in the Olympics this year. She is the latest athletic woman star.
Kirsten Flagstad, the Norwegian soprano of the Metropolitan, is said to be the biggest attraction since the retirement of Geraldine Farrar.
Mary Garden, famous operatic star, has accepted an appointment on the faculty of the Chicago Musical College.
Maria Jeritza, a Viennese opera star's latest honor is not for singing but cooking. She received a silver medal for the best Hungarian goulash.
Margaret Deland's new book, "If This Be I (As I Suppose It Be)." records memories of her own childhood and is delightful reading.