Belle Smith Spafford By Leone G. Layton
We all have favorite quotations which we feel express our inmost desires of accomplishment in life. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might"—Bible; "Have a purpose in life, and having it, throw into your work such strength of mind and muscle as God has given you"—Carlyle; were selected some years ago by Sister Spafford as typifying her creed. We who have been her close associates can testify to her success in living up to them. No matter what she has been called upon to do, she has given the best she had. Her standards have been high, and through her example others have been encouraged to try to reach them, for she has the happy faculty of seeing the good in all, giving commendation and encouragement wherever she has gone. In her Relief Society work she has won the love of all the women she has contacted, and her clear vision has been instrumental in helping a number of women solve difficult problems in their organizations. She has the quality of understanding and because of her friendly interest in all, she is sought after constantly for comfort and advice.
Sister Spafford is the daughter of John G. And Hester Sims Smith. She was born in Salt Lake City and has spent most of her life here. Mr. Smith died before Mrs. Spafford's birth and Mrs. Smith was left to rear her family alone. Never faltering, she made a home for her children, and her strength of character, devotion to the right, and great appreciation of the cultural values of life, have had a marked influence on the lives of all who have known her. A carefree, happy childhood is the memory of Sister Spafford. She attended the Salt Lake City Public Schools and later the L. D. S. High School and the University of Utah. Her first teaching experience was gained in the Salt Lake Public Schools. Here her interest was stimulated in childhood, its experiences and reactions and the studies of psychology and Sociology became her guide. Later she went to the Brigham Young University where she became a grade supervisor in the Training School. Her experience here in lesson-planning and analysis have been invaluable to the organizations in which she has since labored.
While teaching in Provo she met and married W. Earl Spafford. Returning to the B. Y. U. She conducted a special group in Remedial Work. The year brought some excellent results and further challenged her interest in the study of Psychology. Here she obtained experience which was to stand her in good stead in her Relief Society Work.
Her earliest Church activities were centered in Mutual Improvement work, and as a Junior Girl she won the Church Award in Retold Story. At the age of eighteen she was called to preside over the Mutual in her ward and remained in this work both in Salt Lake City and in Provo for a number of years. She was also interested in Religion Class, and while a Stake Board Member assisted in formulating a course of study for this Organization. In 1926 Mr. Spafford's business interests necessitated the removal of his family to Salt Lake City. Here Sister Spafford was first introduced to Relief Society as counselor in the Belvedere Ward. She was assigned Classwork as her division of responsibility, and here her wide social and educational contacts proved useful. Under her direction the classleaders were stimulated to a realization of the responsibility that was theirs in occupying the time of a group of busy women, resulting in an increase of teaching efficiency. Her extensive reading and her understanding appreciation of a well taught lesson created in the leaders a desire to measure up to her lesson standards. Though the mother of two small children, she was never too busy to give her associates such help and encouragement as they required, at the same time keeping up her home interests. The Social Service Course challenged her interest because of her studies in Psychology. Realizing the need of such a background in a stake leader, she was called to the Grant Stake Relief Society Board in 1932. Her splendid lesson preparation, her provision of lesson enrichment for ward leaders created great interest in the department. Leaders not of this Stake became regular attendants, and the quality of work presented in the wards was improved. With the Organization of Wells Stake, Sister Spafford was called as first Counselor to Sister Marie Tanner who says of her, "Sister Spafford possesses an unusual and logical mind, she is a natural leader, her poise gives calm and peace. Rich in life's greatest assets, she is honest, outspoken, and straight-forward. Loyal to every trust, gentle and kind, her fine soul qualities inspire respect and confidence in the hearts of her associates. She gives obedience to authority. The sisters of Wells Stake love and honor her." To her new work Sister Spafford brings an intimate knowledge of Relief Society and its problems, a clear vision of its aims and purposes, a spirit of humility and willingness to serve with all her strength wherever she is placed, and an abundant store of knowledge, coupled with rare ability to use that knowledge with wisdom and understanding.