[Vol17 | October 1930 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Role of Emotions on Disedtion and. Health Anna Page]
Role of Emotions on Digestion and Health By Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist H! What a headache," exclaim- () ed Dick as he hung up his hat.

"What's wrong?" asked Ted.

"The usual thing.

Bridge until 2:30 this morning.. The hostess served a rich, delicious lunch at midnight." "T suppose you had coffee too," inquired Ted.

"Yes," answered Dick, "coffee always keeps me awake.

I can't seem to relax afterwards.

Say, my wife cooked a good breakfast this morning, Coffee, pork sausage, fried potatoes and pie, but I couldn't eat a bite." "Neither would I eat all that fried heavy indigestible food at that time in the morning.

A man would have to be doing hard outdoor work to: attempt to eat that type of breakfast.

And I suppose you got up late, so you tried to eat in ten minutes," remarked Ted.

"Well yes, I did, you see I couldn't go to sleep until long after I went to bed.

I have had a lot to worry me lately, my insurance is due and I lost some money on the stock market.

Jane, my oldest daughter, wants to stop school and get married," defended Dick.

"Oh, I know, the usual thing, you have been worrying about so many things you cannot help that your nerves are all jumpy, you cannot eat or sleep and have indigestion.

If you do not stop you will have serious stomach trouble." How often have you heard a similar conversation?

People do not realize the close connection that their State Department of Education emotions and nervous system have on digestion and health.

Under our present civilized life, many people are constantly under the influence of the major emotions —fear, anger, pain and hunger.

Pain, anger, fear greatly interfere with the digestive processes and may be the cause of serious disturbances.

The secretion of the digestive juices by the stomach, intestines and glands are hindered by strong emotions.

I'. Is not an uncommon experience for those who are subject to fits of temper to suffer from sick headaches, gas production, and mental dullness following an exhibition of emotion or temper spell.

It has been asserted that the healthy person does not realize he has a heart or stomach.

This is as it should be.

These organs perform their functions better when we are wholly unconscious of them.

Dr. Alvarez says that digestion can doubtless be upset in sensitive persons by strong emotion, fatigue, improper methods of eating and constipation, Most of these conditions can be readily controlled.

Seventy-five per cent of the food problems today are due to 'poor digestion and not getting people to eat right foods at the right time.

Many of the headaches, nausea and the too often feeling of being indispose are the results of indigestion and constipation.

A® important rule in protecting the digestive system is to have the right atmosphere when eating.

Pleasant conversation and agreeable 2 ROLE OF EMOTIONS company are necessary for the right atmosphere to promote good digestion.

This makes possible the enjoyment of the food and creates the proper psychic conditions which enables the digestive system to perform its work well.

The sight, odor, or thought of food starts the secretion of the digestive juices and consequently promotes the utilization of food.

Foods well cooked, flavored and attractively served help to promote the secretion of the digestive juices and make digestion easier.

The room should be clean, light, and well aired for the right atmosphere.

Conversation at the table should be agreeable and of a very pleasant nature.

Since any unpleasant emotions interfere so seriously with the digestion, it is wrong to scold children or to discuss matters relating to discipline at the table.

The family table should not be the daily court for the individual offender.

It is unfair to the child to discipline him at the table.

One wise mother follows the rule of.

Never scolding or punishing the child a few minutes before eating or at the table.

At that time she does not seem to notice the misdemeanor, but after an interval of two hours or more from meal time, the hour of reckoning comes.

A similar plan is recommended for other mothers, if followed they would have very satisfactory results.

The table is not the place to read or discuss shocking topics that appear in the daily paper.

Business affairs, especially if they involve questions which give concern, should be put aside at meal time.

Wrangling at meal times, seems particularly detrimental to the digestive processes.

Some wise old Jew has pointed out "Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, - minutes. 547 than a house full of feasting with strife." Eating in a hurry is a practice that is highly condemned.

Everyone should have time to eat three meals a day.

It does not matter whether you live to eat or eat to live, eating is one of the most important things you do.

Everyone should spend at least twenty minutes, preferably thirty to forty minutes, at the table for each meal.

For children, they should be required to stay at the table thirty If children are allowed to leave the table when they desire, they fform the 'habit jof trushing through their meals in order to go play.

The American people are noted for their habit of hurrying.

They are not taking sufficient time to eat as is shown in the following experiment.

An observer stood at the entrance of a cafeteria in a large city.

During the noon hour he watched the people go in, select their food, eat, and pay their bill.

He found that the average time taken was eleven minutes.

Probably the most important rule to follow in the protection of the digestive system is to take three well balanced meals daily at a regular time.

Displeasing sights and odors inhibit the flow of digestive juices, this decreases appetite and delays digestion.

It is well known that the appetite suddenly fails if bad news is received or if one is subjected to a shock such as an automobile accident.

Persons who are greatly worried do not develop a desire for food, and if taken it is not well utilized.

Food eaten under strain or emotion usually does not digest as quickly or as easily as does food taken under normal conditions.

When one is emotionally disturbed 548 it is wise to eat but lightly or not at all.

HAT is the effect that emotions have on the digestive system?

Unpleasant emotions check the secretory activity of the digestive glands.

The salivary glands and stomach glands are affected in the same way.

Many people are familiar with the dryness of the mouth which inexperienced people suffer from when trying to address an audience.

There is often sufficient fright to stop the secretion of saliva.

A similar effect is produced on the other digestive glands.

In the stomach the appetite juice is stimulated by sight, odor, or memory of food.

This secretion may be stopped by fear, anger, or pain.

These emotions interfere with the muscular action in the stomach and intestines, causing them to cease their activity which results in delayed digestion.

HE stomach has the function of serving as a reservoir for the food.

When the food remains in the stomach over a long period of time, bacterial growth results producing a whole array of indigestible products.

Many people speak of the stomach, blaming it for many of the aches and pains they suffer from.

While really the stomach is a most tolerant organ.

For years it is generally either starved or overfed.

It must receive and take care of all kinds of substances from milk to clay.

It is stimulated by coffee, irritated by alcohol, tortured by drugs, altrenately scalded and dulled, and yet it works on, doing its best, though receiving the blame which rightfully belongs to -its owner.

Some people complain of their bad stomach all their lives, while in reality the poor thing is not at fault as 'mental condition.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it is doing its best.

Its great failing is that it is too sympathetic, reflecting the troubles of its neighbors.

The importance of avoiding as far as possible the states of worry and anxiety, and of not permitting grief and anger and other violent emotions to prevail unduly is not commonly appreciated by the majority of the people.

These alterations in the intestinal system are so subtle that they are unknown to consciousness, but these changes have been clearly demonstrated through physiological studies.

For example, in the rat any sign of distress or rage was accompanied by a total stopping of the movement of the stomach.

From the work of Pavlow and Cannon we have learned of the intimate relationship that exists between the states of mind and secretion ahd motility of the intestinal tract.

Disturbances in secretion of the gastric juices, either in increased or decreased amounts are noted in cases of mental strain, mental over work, anxiety, worry, hysteria, neurasthenia, melancholia, and certain physic conditions.

One of the most interesting studies at the present time is the relation of intestinal abnormalities and distortions to mental diseases.

It is certainly a suggestive fact that a considerable number of cases of severe intestinal disturbances are seen in the insane asylum.

In one case an intestinal operation restored a man to a normal Previous to the operation he had been a frequent inmate for a number of years.

Fig control of hyperacidity in a worried, fatigued individual is practically impossible.

During periods of stress, worry, fatigue, and nervous excitability, it is ex- ROLE OF EMOTIONS tremely difficult to control the acid in the stomach.

This may be because at such times the nervous unbalance prevents the normal relaxation and contraction of the opening between the stomach and the intestines.

This means that there is not the normal mixing of the acid contents of the stomach with the alkaline contents of the intestines.

The longer the food remains in the stomach, the more acid is produced, this may cause hyperacidity.

It seems very important that in nervous people all conditions which produce a state of excitement should be avoided.

Every effort should be made to encourage the patient and to make him as comfortable and happy as possible.

Many persons whose nervous system is abused get digestive upsets, due to emotional upsets.

Asa result the person audits all possible causes and effects: He then decides that one certain food caused all the disturbance.

He eliminates that food from his diet, then in a few days another food 'is eliminated. 'What foods will he have left to live on?

Middle aged people are apt to rule out a long list of foods because of abnormal attitudes.

Very often it is not the food that is at fault, but the nervous condition that the individual is in at the time of taking the food.

There is no surer way of destruction than to keep a close audit of your digestive tract.

Eat a well balanced diet then let your digestive system alone. - There is a difference between physical fatigue and nervous fatigue.

If you are at peace with the world with no regrets, but are physically tired you will want to stop and 'rest.

Those nervously fatigued do not want to stop and rest or cannot stop and _ rest. 549 Women in particular become nervously exhausted.

For example, the typical mother with a never ending round of attention to details in the home, or the too ambitious woman who likes to serve a great variety of food.

Many women at the present time become so busy with clubs, social activities, or {church work that they become nervously exhausted and irritable.

All this strain makes the woman more conscious of minor noises.

She becomes more nervous because she loses control and cannot rest when the opportunity icomes, she shifts hands and position, fidgets, and makes many movements which makes one fatigued.

She does an unnecessary amount of work.

The fatigued housewife does not want to go to bed, then fusses after she goes to bed.

A normal person is indifferent and goes to bed to rest.

The nervous woman will find many things to worry about.

But nothing is more foolish than to misuse the nervous system.

Women go too far.

Beyond a certain point the amount of good resulting from overwork is too small for the price the individual has to pay.

Many persons tire themselves out by putting too much energy and emotion into trivial tasks.

Women very often get all stirred up over little things.

They review at great length painful or annoying experiences, which a more sensible person would promptly forget.

American people are not taking sufficient thought to safeguard the nervous system.

Sit down voluntarily and frequently.

Make this a_ habit.

Protect the nervous system and you protect the digestive system.

Exercise, play, recreation, sleep, and relaxation help in the protection of the nervous system.
