LIFE is time given to you and me. We live it moment by moment, each moment is a link in life's chain, making the days and the years. A golden chain some lives become for they have learned to live. To live fully one must give himself completely to correct principles. There is a time for work and a time for rest. This principle of joyous living is so important that our Heavenly Father designates one day each week for man to rest from his labors and draw near Him. A day of rest was observed by God when the earth was made and in gospel dispensations from the beginning. Prophets have been inspired to live and teach observance of the Lord's day. Their instructions have been so well defined that hearers are not left in doubt as to how to keep this day holy before Him.
Through the prophet Moses, God said (Exodus 20:8-12): "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. "Six days thou shalt labour, and do all thy work; "But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: "For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it." These are the words given through Moses to the children of Israel and as long as they observed and kept the Sabbath holy they were blessed. So great were their blessings that manna was sent from heaven in time of famine, but they must gather for the Sabbath the day before. Two hundred years after the people of Lehi came to this country the people of Nephi waxed strong for they observed the laws of Moses and kept the Sabbath day holy unto the Lord. King Mosiah preached the same law in his day, B. C. 148, and Alma, the beloved prophet, commanded his people to observe the Sabbath and also to make other days a time to give thanks unto the Lord their God.
IN latter days God has brought again the word to his people concerning the Sabbath. August 7, 1831, in Zion, Jackson County, Missouri, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a glorious revelation. In it the Lord blessed those who had come up unto this land with an eye single to His glory and according to His commandments. He promised those who live that they should inherit the earth, and that those who die should rest from their labors, and that their works should follow them; they should receive a crown in the mansions of the Father. "Yea," He said. "Blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have observed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength. And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time?they that are faithful and diligent before me."