YOUR TAPESTRY By Lucy H. Nielson A tapestry was woven Throughout long yeass of time; Its beauty still transcendent Awe inspiring and sublime. The colors firmly blended Unfaded through the years Reflect exact selection ? Of substance one reveres. The warp of faith was woven In God who dwells above; The weft of honest patience Entwined with purest love. The filling was of kindness With base of courage strong; Design of truth a symbol Depicting right from wrong. Each day on the loom of life Were fastened threads secure; A pattern of brilliant luster Was made to e'er endure. Members Old By Margaret Smurthwaite Heywood AM come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly."?John 10:10. Real living?life abundant?at any age, is dependent upon wholesome activity. It is our wont to assume that our older members deserve a well earned rest and that they should be relieved of responsibility and work. Few people, even older ones, suffer from an over-expenditure of their energies. They suffer rather from negative reactions resulting from surplus energies unexpressed. Our older members should be relieved of drudgery. As much as possible they should be freed from the grueling, driving compulsion of providing the necessities of life. They have had their share of living on the plane of necessity. Their activities should now be on the level of the creative. They should be able to do many things they have always wanted to do. This does not mean a less active life?quite the contrary. Relief Society can surely provide this much needed activity. Class leaders and enthusiastic members can do a real service for these women by helping them realize the development and genuine pleasure that awaits them in the study of the English novel. Every woman should be anxious to learn the practical psychology of personal adjustment. Many of the older women only enthusiastic about Theology work must be shown that study along other lines broadens them and makes their perspective more accurate. These women need to be encouraged to Some of them have the urge to express themselves, but because they feel that the younger members do it better or do not appreciate what they have to say, withdraw themselves, suffering from a feeling of inferiority. Many aged members have grown timid because of continually repressing their impulse to do things. Some hesitate to go to the meetings for fear of being called upon to pray. Others, out of the habit of regular attendance, forget it is meeting day. There are those who cannot go alone and have no one to go with them. Some buoyant, energetic member in each ward could be assigned to help these women. GREAT power is represented in our older members. What a world of initiative, imagination, resourcefulness and skill they possess! We recognized this early in the spring when our Relief Society stake board _ members invited older members from the different wards to assist them in preparing for a bazaar. Forty women responded the first day.. Materials were supplied by the stake board. There was wool for crocheting afghans, for weaving robes, jackets and caps for babies; there was cotton thread for crocheted articles and edgings; there were lengths of colorful piece goods for making quilts and wearing apparel. At noon a dinner furnished and prepared by the board members was served. When the group of women surrounded the long banquet table the affair took on an air of festivity. Every one was gay.