Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" WOMEN IN CIVIC AFFAIRS: Woman herself must not cease her efforts in her own behalf, or in behalf of her own sex; because it must be apparent to all, that although women may be intellectually bright, vigorous and active, yet they lack the training and discipline men get from association, political and otherwise, which brings them in contact with each other, and the public at large. Women have occupied a much narrower sphere heretofore, and necessarily their views and opinions on questions of state... Will require time to mature. And the real method of arriving at excellence.. Will be by practice. —FEditorial HYGIENIC COOKERY: Fruit should compose a large part of our diet. Grapes, apples, peaches and a great many of our excellent fruits are more nutritious in their natural condition; they should be thoroughly matured but not over ripe.... Much of our fruit can be bottled fresh or dried for winter use.... Vegetables are also wholesome but should be cooked properly. They should be perfectly tender but not overdone. Steaming or baking is preferable for most vegetables, because their fine flavors are thus more easily retained and their food value suffers less diminution —J. S. W. A Love Sonc To A WIFE We have been lovers for forty years; O, dear cheeks, faded and worn with tears, What an eloquent story of love you tell! Your roses are dead, yet I love you well! O, pale brow, shrined in soft, silvery hair; Crowned with life's sorrow and lined with care, Let me read by the light of the stars above Those dear, dear records of faithful love —Quiver LADIES MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY: Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.... Counselor Stevenson said, What a privilege to have remained in the courts on high to come forth in this day, when the Gospel of the Son of God has been restored in this momentous age.... We are surrounded by temptations, let us make the best of our opportunity, be as towers of strength round our children; live near to the Lord; teach by example; we should strive to overcome our weaknesses. One, today, another tomorrow. I wish young mothers would meet with us. I come to be fed and to gain strength.... We can learn many good things from books, but we learn more by listening to the experiences of others, who have passed through trials and borne them patiently. —Vilate R. Young, Sec. Page 586 VETA CULP HOBBY, second woman Cabinet Member in the Nation's history, resigned as of August 1, 1955. She was the first person to hold the portfolio of Health, Education, and Welfare. President Eisenhower accepted her resignation in an extraordinary public ceremony in the White House. Mrs. Hobby expressed "regret" and "a deep sense of sadness" at leaving the government service. President Eisenhower praised her for her wise counsel, calm confidence, her concern for people everywhere, and her warm heart, as well as for her talents. In World War II Mrs. Hobby served as head of the Women's Army Corps. She is retiring because of the illness of her husband, former Governor William P. Hobby of 'Texas. ARIA MENEGHINI CALLAS at thirty is one of the world's great sopranos. Born in New York, she went to live in Greece at thirteen, and was engaged by the La Scala Opera Company in Milan at twenty-three. After refusing many offers to sing in America, she finally made her debut in this country with the Chicago Opera Company last November and was a sensational success with both audiences and critics.,