Ada Dwyer Russell on Amy Lowell
It was indeed a happy thought that led the Granite stake officers to telegraph to Mrs. Ada Dwyer Russell and obtain her services for an afternoon with Amy Lowell in the Assembly Hall. Such initiative is most commendable wherever it is found. About a year ago the Logan stake officers wrote to the relatives of Emily Dickinson, and obtained letters and other unpublished matter in relation to her life and writings, which added very greatly to their information and enjoyment when the lesson was presented. Miss Nellie Morris, literary leader in the Hawthorne ward, is given credit for first thinking of bringing Mrs. Russell before the Relief Society. Nothing could be more truly fitting than that Ada Dwyer Russell should give the lesson on Amy Lowell. First, because she is the daughter of a reverenced and beloved pioneer family of this state, and for that reason the hearts of the people of Utah go out to her; secondly, she is an artist in her own right, consequently has the ability of presenting literature in an effective manner; thirdly, and this is most important, she was the sympathetic companion of Amy Lowell?residing in her home?knowing her as a person and as an artist as it was perhaps given to no one else to know her. Her very able and pleasing address in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall proved to be one of the most valuable contributions to the sum total of knowledge in relation to Amy Lowell that has yet been presented to the public. Her reading of Lilacs and Patterns was superb, and reminded us that we were listening to a gifted daughter of the stage. 
 We appreciate the generosity and graciousness of Mrs. Russell in appearing before us. We trust that her sojourn in her native state may be full of pleasure to her, for out of the abundance of her well stored mind and heart she has fed us, and out of the fulness of our hearts we would reciprocate her kindness in fullest measure. Great credit is due to Mrs. Emmaretta G. Brown and her corps of officers, who had the arrangements in hand. The stand was tastily decorated with flowers that at this season are so abundant, and the music was in keeping with the flowers and the address. It was in every respect the type of entertainment for which the Relief Society would like to be known. We are publishing herewith a copy of the program as placed in the hands of Counselor Jennie B. Knight, the presiding officer of the occasion, feeling sure that our readers will be interested in following it.
AMY LOWELL L. D. S. Relief Society Literary Lesson: Assembly Hall, June 22, 1926 - 2:00 P. M. Lecture by ADA DWYER RUSSELL Auspices Granite Stake Relief Society
Program
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of General Presidency of Relief Society, presiding
1. Ladies' Trio, "Spirit of Heaven"................Granite Stake Relief Society Choir
2. Invocation...................Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, of Gen. Pres. of Relief Society
3. Solo, "The Earth is the Lord's".......... Mrs. Agnes Bolton
4. Introduction of Mrs. Russell........ Miss Alice L. Reynolds
5. Lecture, "Amy Lowell"................ Ada Dwyer Russell
6. Selection, "The Lord Will Comfort Zion"................. Mrs. Louise Giauque, Eleanor Edgington, and Granite Stake Relief Society Choir
7. Benediction............Annie Wells Cannon
We are publishing in this issue of the Magazine a copy of a painting entitled An Old Lady at the County Infirmary, by Mr. John Standsfield. This painting has attracted a good deal of attention, as it certainly represents a type of old lady often found in a county infirmary. It brings to mind Nanny in Barry's Little Minister. The painting was on exhibition last April in the art collection exhibited at the Springville High School. Thousands of persons saw the painting, so that we feel sure that many of our readers will welcome it in the pages of the Magazine. We are very glad to publish in connection with the picture a poem by Jessie Sundwall, which records her reaction to the picture.
EDITORIAL 403