GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 425
Canon Girdlestone, in discussing the article, says in pertinent emphasis of Mary's status as a princess of royal blood through descent from David, "When the angel was foretelling to Mary the birth of the Holy, Child, he said: 'The Lord God shall give him the throne of his father David, Mary would have answered, I am not yet married to Joseph, whereas, she did answer simply: 'I am an unmarried woman' which plainly implies that if I were married, since I am descended from David, I could infuse my royal blood into a son but how can I have a royal son, while I am a virgin?"
The human nature of Jesus made it possible for him to be tempted through appetite, ambition for notoriety, and yearning for wealth and power. His divine nature enabled him to silence Satan. Matthew 4:1-11.
"1. Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.
"2, And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.
"3. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
"4. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
"5. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple.
"6, And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down; for it is written, he shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
"7, Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
"8. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them;
"9. And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
"10. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
"11. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold angels came and ministered unto him."
His human nature found him weary at the well humbly asking and graciously receiving a drink at the hands of the woman. Of Samaria. His divine nature opened to him the secrets of her soul and caused him to offer her the cup of everlasting life. Reference: John 4:7-10.


"7, There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
"8. (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat. );
"9 Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
"10. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water."
At the call of human nature he slumbered on the Sea of Galilee in the midst of a storm; his divine nature gave his command over the winds and the waves. Reference Matthew 8: 23-27.
"23. And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
"24. And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep.;
"25. And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?"
His human nature at Gethsemane caused him to shrink from the indescribable impending agony; his divine nature made. It possible for him to bear up under the accumulated sins of ages.
Was it not his human nature that called forth the question on the cross, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" Certainly it was his divine nature by which he declared the completion of the sacrifice in the words, "It is finished." John 19:30. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
Reference: Luke 22: 41-44, "41. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,,
"42. Saying, Father, if thou be willing remove this cup from me; nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be done.
"43. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.
"44. And being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground."
Matthew 27:46. "And the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying E'li, E'li, la'ma sa-bach'tha-ni? That is to say, My, God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?".
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 427
Jesus came not to destroy human nature but to subordinate it to divine nature.
2. Elaborate this thought: The sacrifice was finished on the cross but the redemption awaited the resurrection.
In the light of his mission, show the necessity for the super-divinity of Christ.
4, Give one or more examples of the dual nature of Jesus, other than those used in this lesson.
II, III. IV.
LESSON II
Work and Business (Second Week in October)
HOME TALKS
Some Parental Obligations
"How best can we serve you? O, children! If you knew How her heart aches with loving How deep and how true, How brave and enduring, How patient and strong, How longing for good and how fearful of wrong Is the love of your mother!"
A great obligation of parents is to love their children, sufficiently so as to strive to set the proper example for them to follow in honor, integrity, truthfulness, courtesy, and kindness. How fortunate is the child who can always look up to his parents as his ideal.;
Another obligation is to study child nature and strive to understand each individual child. To understand the natural urges of boys and girls, such as love of adventure, desire for personal adornment, association with other boys and girls, etc., and to provide for their proper expression, saves many children from serious mistakes.
Parents owe it to their children to hold before their children good examples rather than bad. To make their teaching positive rather than negative. "Put the best things before the children naturally grow to look on the best things as within their reach." "As a stimulant to ambition of the right sort, keep constantly before children the lives of great and good men and women of all ages.'
One great obligation of parents is to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ to their children in such a way that it makes a lasting impression, or that it appeals to them rather than repels them.


LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in October)
ROBERT FROST
Recently a survey was made in the United States to ascertain which poets should be included in a series of new reading texts being prepared for publication. A goodly number of votes were cast?some for one poet?and some for another, but on one poet they were agreed. All persons taking part in the survey asked that the poems of Robert Frost be included in the new readers. After such a statement, I feel sure it will not surprise our readers to learn that Robert Frost is something like Longfellow, and Field, and Riley, in that he reaches the common people.
Robert Frost is a good example of a poet who was not without honor save in his own country, for his own country refused to accept him, allowing him to waste his life attempting to do a variety of things for which he was not at all suited, until England proclaimed him a poet in such unmistakable terms that his own country was forced to acquiesce.;
Robert Frost, like Amy Lowell, is of New England, its very soil. Nevertheless, he was born in the West. Robert Lee Frost was born in San Francisco, California, March 26, 1875; at the age of ten he returned to the East; this was his native environment; eight generations of his forebears had lived there. He did his preparatory work for College at the Lawrence High School, Massachusetts. In 1892 he entered Dartmouth College, where he remained only a few months. The urge for creative work bore heavily upon him, consequently the routine of college work proved irksome. Desiring to earn his living, he accepted a job as bobbin boy in one of the mills at the city of Lawrence. He had begun to write poetry and had sent some to The Independent, but the very thing that marked him as a poet, and later won for him so much praise as a stylist, is what these first editors in America objected to. Ada Dwyer Russell in her address on Amy Lowell, said that Miss Lowell disliked very much worn out words; she wanted words fresh from the heart of the thing that was being written about. Robert Frost's words were full of "the flavor of the soil" and for that reason they were rejected by people who could not discover their great worth.
For twenty years this now popular poet remained unknown. He married in 1895. "In 1897 he moved his family to Cambridge, Mass., and entered GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 429 Harvard in a final determination to achieve culture. This time he followed the cut-and-dried curriculum, for two years, but at the end of that period, he stopped trying to learn and started to teach." He worked at a variety of things such as teaching school, mending shoes, editing a weekly paper, finally turning to farming at Derry, New Hampshire. Many a farmer striving to work the stubborn soil of New England had found it a very difficult thing to wrest a living from the rock-bound coast, and so it was with Robert Frost. It was with the most meagre success that he labored on untiringly?the soil refusing to yield and the unresponsive public refusing to recognize that it had a real poet in its midst.
Finally, in September, 1912, Frost sailed to England with his wife and four children. Now for the first time this gifted man moved in a literary atmosphere. He collected his poems and with much misgiving, because of his experience at home, presented them to an English publisher. Not many months passed before his first volume of poems was issued under the caption of A Boy's Will, Away from home, Frost was recognized as "one of the few authentic voices of modern poetry." In 1914, Frost was living in Gloucestershire, with the English poets Lascelles, Abercrombe, and W. W. Gibson, as neighbors.
In 1914 he published North of Boston?an American book in every particular; he called it a Book of People. It is all that and more, with its rich New England background, which places it among the very first books that truly interpret New England life. North of Boston was received in the United States in the warmest possible manner, with the result that when Frost came back to America, it was to find himself famous. Mountain Intervals followed, in 1916. He had gained confidence, knowing, as he did, that his own countrymen were ready to receive him and give him due recognition. The following lines express his feeling of confidence:
"They. Would not find me changed from him they knew? Only more sure of all I thought was true."
New Hampshire appeared in 1923, and was awarded the Pulitzer prize for being the best volume of poetry of that year. Frost now entered the class room, teaching first at Amherst, and later at the University of Michigan; he was at Amherst from 1916 to 1919, and at the University of Michigan from 1923 to 1925. He then ceased active teaching, but was induced to return to the faculty of the University of Michigan, under the following agreement: 'Michigan offered him an 'idle professorship' for life, which requires that he spend part of the time in educational circles, acting as 'sort of a poetic radiator,' a small part teaching, and the rest of his time on his farm in Vermont."


We shall include in this lesson, first of all, the poem The Death of the Hired Man. We feel that it needs no explanation? that it needs merely to be read carefully to be understood. We feel that our readers will be very proud indeed of Mary. Here we have a story of intense human interest?not particularly attractive?but lifted into the realm of the divine through Mary's lovely Christian soul.
THE DEATH OF THE HIRED MAN
Mary sat musing on the lamp-flame at the table Waiting for Warren. When she heard his step, She ran on tiptoe down the darkened passage To meet him in the doorway with the news And put him on his guard. "Silas is back." She pushed him outward with her through the door And shut it after her. "Be kind," she said, She took the market things from Warren's arms And set then on the porch, then drew him down, To, sit beside her on the wooden steps.
"When was I ever anything but kind to him? But I'll not have the fellow back," he said: "I told him so last haying, didn't I? 'If he left then,' I said, 'that ended it.' What good is he? Who else will harbor him? At his age for the little he can do? What help he is there is no depending on. Off he goes always when I need him most. 'He thinks he ought to earn a little pay, Enough at least to buy tobacco with, So he won't have to beg and be beholden.' 'All right,' I say, 'I can't afford to pay Any fixed wages, though I wish I could.' 'Someone else can'?'then someone else will have to' I shouldn't mind his bettering himself, If that was what it was. You can be certain, When he begins like that, there's someone at him, Trying to coax him off with pocket money,? In haying time, when any help is scarce. In winter he comes back to us. I'm done."
"Sh! Not so loud: he'll hear you," Mary said. "I want him to?he'll have to soon or late." "He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove." "When I came up from Rowe's I found him here, Huddled against the barn-door fast asleep,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 431
A miserable sight, and frightened, too? You needn't smile?I didn't recognize him? I wasn't looking for him?and he's changed. Wait till you see." "Where did you say he'd been?" "He didn't say. I dragged him to the house And gave him tea and tried to make him smoke. I tried to make him talk about his travels, Nothing would do: he just kept nodding off." "What did he say? Did he say anything?" "But little." "Anything? Mary, confess. He said he'd come to ditch the meadow for me." "Warren!" "But did he? I just want to know." "Of course, he did. What would you have him say? Surely you wouldn't grudge the poor old man Some humble way to save his self-respect. He added, if you really care to know, He meant to clear the upper pasture, too. That sounds like something you have heard before? Warren, I wish you could have heard the way He jumbled everything. I stopped to look Two or three times?he made me feel so queer? To see if he was talking in his sleep. He ran on Harold Wilson?you remember? The boy you had in haying four years since. He's finished school, and teaching in his college. Silas declares you'll have to get him back. He says they two will make a team for work: Between them they will lay this farm as smooth! The way he mixed that in with other things. He thinks young Wilson a likely lad, though daft On education?you know how they fought All through July under the blazing sun, Silas up on the cart to build the load. Harold along beside to pitch it on."
"Yes, I took care to keep well out of earshot,"


"Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream. You wouldn't think they would. How some things linger! Harold's young college boy's assurance piqued him. After so many years he still keeps finding Good arguments he sees he might have used. I sympathize. I know just how it feels To think of the right thing to say too late. Harold's associated in his mind with Latin. He asked me what I thought of Harold's saying He studied Latin like the violin Because he liked it?that an argument! He said he couldn't make the boy believe He could find water with a hazel prong? Which showed*how much good school had ever done him. He wanted to go over that. But most of all He thinks if he could have another chance To teach him how to build a load of hay?"
"I know, that's Silas' one accomplishment. He bundles every forkful in its place, And tags and numbers it for future reference, So he can find and easily dislodge it In the unloading. Silas does that well. He takes it out in bunches like birds' nests. You never see him standing on the hay He's trying to lift, straining to lift himself."
"He thinks if he could teach him that, he'd be Some good perhaps to someone in the world. He hates to see a boy the fool of books. Poor Silas, so concerned for other folk, And nothing to look backward to with pride, And nothing to look forward to with hope, So now and never any different."
Part of a moon was falling down the West, Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills. Its light poured softly in her lap. She saw And spread her apron to it. She put out her hand Among the harp-like morning glory strings, Taut with the dew from garden bed to eaves, As if she played unheard the tenderness That wrought on him beside her in the night.
"Warren," she said, "he has come home to die: You needn't be afraid he'll leave you this time."
"Home," he mocked gently.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 433
"Yes, what else but home? It all depends on what you mean by home. Of course he's nothing to us, any more Than was the hound that came a stranger to us Out of the woods, worn out upon the trail."
"Home is the place where, when you have to go there,: They have to take you in.'
"I should have called it Something you somehow haven't to deserve."
Warren leaned out and took a step or two, Picked up a little stick, and brought it back And broke it in his hand and tossed it by. "Silas has better claim on us, you think, Than on his brother? Thirteen little miles As the road winds would bring him to his door. Silas has walked that far no doubt today. Why didn't he go there? His brother's rich, A. Somebody?director in the bank."
"He never told us that."
"We know it, though."
"I think his brother ought to help, of course, I'll see to that if there is need. He ought of right To take him in, and might be willing to? He may be better than appearances. But have some pity on Silas. Do you think If he'd any pride in claiming kin Or anything he looked for from his brother, He'd keep so still about him all this time?"
"I wonder what's between them."
"I can tell you. Silas is what he is?we wouldn't mind him? But just the kind that kinfolks can't abide. He never did a thing so very bad. He don't know why he isn't quite as good as anyone. He won't be made ashamed To please his brother, worthless though he is,"
"I can't think Si ever hurt anyone."
"No, but he hurt my heart the way he lay And rolled his old head on that sharp-edged chair-back. He wouldn't let me put him on the lounge. You must go in and see what you can do. I made the bed up for him there tonight.


You'll be surprised at him?how much he's broken. His working days are done; I'm sure of it."
"I'd not be in a hurry to say that."
"I haven't been. Go, look, see for yourself. But, Warren, please remember how it is: He's come to help you ditch the meadow. He has a plan. You mustn't laugh at him. He may not speak of it?then he may. I'll sit and see if that small sailing cloud Will hit or miss the moon."
It hit the moon. Then there were three there, making a dim row, The moon, the little silver cloud, and she.
Warren returned?too soon, it seemed to her, Slipped to her side, caught up her hand, and waited. "Warren?" she questioned. "Dead" was all he answered..
In "The Runaway," we have perhaps the best and at the same time most tender picture of a colt to be found in our literature. We feel keenly that Robert Frost should have spent so much time on a farm whose yield was so unsatisfactory, but if he was not rewarded in grain and vegetables and fruits, he certainly amassed an amount of experience that has given him abundant material for his poems. In "The Runaway" we have a little colt that has made its way out into the snow and is plainly excited over conditions. The poem tells its own story.
THE RUNAWAY
"Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall, We stopped by a mountain pasture to say, "Whose colt?"' A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall, The other curled at his breast. He dipped his head And snorted to us. And then he has to bolt. We heard the miniature thunder where he fled, And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and grey, Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes. "I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow. He isn't winter-broken. It isn't play With the little fellow at all. He's running away. I doubt if even his mother could tell him, "Sakes,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 435
It's only weather.' He'd think she didn't know! Where is his mother? He can't be out alone." And now he comes again with a clatter of stone And he mounts the wall again with whited eyes And all his tail that isn't hair up straight. He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies. "Whoever it is that leaves him out so late, When other creatures have gone to stall and bin, Ought to be told to come and take him in."
"To Earthward" is a poem expressive of the poet's love for nature which quite justifies the opinion of many critics that his love for nature was equal to that of the English poet, William Wordsworth.
TO EARTHWARD
Love at the lips was touch As sweet as I could bear; And once that seemed too much; I lived on air
That crossed me from sweet things, The flow of?was it musk From hidden grape 'vine springs Down hill at dusk?
I had the swirl and ache From sprays of honeysuckle That when they're gathered shake Dew on the knuckle.
I craved strong sweets, but those Seemed strong when I was young; The petal of the rose It was that stung.
Now no joy but lacks salt That is not dashed with pain And weariness and fault; I crave the stain
Of tears, the aftermark Of almost too much love, The sweet of bitter bark And burning clove.
When stiff and sore and scarred I take away my hand From leaning on it hard In grass and sand,


The hurt is not enough: I long for weight and strength To feel the earth as rough To all my length.
This poem is undoubtedly a protest against war as is Amy Lowell's Patterns. The Peaceful Shepherd is Robert Frost's protest against war.
THE PEACEFUL SHEPHERD
If heaven were to do again, And on the pasture bars I leaned to line the figures in Between the dotted stars,
I should be tempted to forget, I think, the Crown of Rule, The Scales of Trade, the Cross of Faith, As hardly worth renewal.
For these have governed in our lives, And see how men have warred! The Cross, the Crown, the Scales, may all As well have been the Sword.
The poet is disappointed that our so-called Christian civilization has been so little able to cope with war.
Questions and Problems
1. Give some interesting items concerning the life of Robert Frost.
2. Illustrate from the poem The Death of the Hired Man how Mary overcame evil with good. Can you think of any characters in real life that reminds you of Mary? If so, illustrate by telling of something done by the real characters without mentioning names.
3. Select some words and phrases that substantiate the notion that Robert Frost has very deep appreciation of nature.
4. Do you feel that Robert Frost is justified in the attitude he takes in The Peaceful Shepherd?
5. Is there anything in the poems we have read that reminds. Us of New England?
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 437:
Lesson IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
John and Rosa
Two eleven-year old children are the subject of this discussion. Both were given intelligence tests and were found to be slightly over eight years old mentally. John's measurement is expressed in terms of Intelligence Quotient (I. Q.) 72, and Rosa's I. Q. Is 71. According to the table given in the last lesson (it appears also on page 76 of the text) John and Rosa both fall in the group classified as "borderline."
John and Rosa typify a problem with which the schools and various Children's Agencies are frequently faced. The dull child, who does not accomplish the standard work of his grade, usually has an unhappy school life. He is often misunderstood and is considered lazy and shiftless by his parents and teachers. His failures lead to discouragement and to his decreasing faith in his ability to succeed. His sense of inadequacy makes him fearful of the scorn of his classmates, with the result that such powers as he has are not given expression. The dull child, if not understood and intelligently handled, is made to suffer the additional handicap of feeling hopelessly inferior.
But a dull individual may make a very satisfactory adjustment. The ultimate test of mental ability or deficiency is not the grade attained on the intelligence scale, but it is the individual's ability to live a normal social life. Dr. Wile states he is willing to accept as a working definition of mental deficiency, "One who is capable of earning a living under favorable conditions, but is incapable from birth, or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows and (b) of managing himself or his affairs with ordinary prudence."
Such borderline children as John and Rosa, if left to compete with their better endowed classmates, are destined to fail in school work and also in their adult life problems. If no saving traits are found and developed in the "borderline" child, he, perhaps, in adult life will fit the definition of the mental deficient, but if his powers are developed, and if his faith in his own ability to achieve certain goals is fostered, his adult accomplishments might make the classification of deficiency unfair.
The author stresses the danger of labelling a borderline child "feeble-minded." The child who is dull may have traits that will compensate for his lack of mental alertness.
The eleven-year old boy, John, was in the fifth grade, but 
 his mental age (eight years) indicated that his native ability was that of the average child in the third grade. The test also showed that John had no special ability. The explanation of his fair work in the fifth grade was found in his diligence and ambition. By studying longer than the normal child, he was able to accomplish the same type of work. By determination and effort he was able, at this age to overcome the handicap of his slowness.
It is doubtful, however, that he would be able to continue to compete in school work successfully when he reaches the higher grades. As the subject matter becomes more diversified, it will be physically impossible to spend the extra time on each lesson which he now spends on only two or three. The probability is that he will not be able to do satisfactory work in high school, but he perhaps can complete the eighth grade a few years retarded.
The practical question which the parents and teachers of the boy must meet, is whether it will be advisable for him to continue academic work after completing the elementary schools. There is no doubt that academic work will always be very difficult for him. No amount of study and plodding will make him more alert. He will always have to have a tremendous effort to accomplish only a fair grade of formal work. Inasmuch as the outcome of a failure in high school course is probable it might be more advisable to spare the boy the ordeal of the strain and humiliation of such an experience, and direct his further training along more practical lines.
Later studies of his capacities may reveal mechanical or manual skill, and he should be given opportunities for trade or vocational training. If he continues to have the same admirable traits of perseverance and application he undoubtedly will achieve economic independence and carry the other responsibilities of adulthood satisfactorily. Proper training and guidance may help him overcome the handicap of his dullness. Unwise treatment and discouragement will thrust him in group of failures, making him a social liability and dooming him to a thwarted, unhappy adult life.
Rosa, also eleven years, with a mental age of eight, did not succeed as well as John in her school work. She, too, was in the fifth grade, but her accomplishments did not justify her grading. She did not apply herself with the energy and determination that John displayed, and her school work was too difficult for her. She paid little attention to the class work, but spent her time drawing ladies and beautiful clothes. The treatment suggested for Rosa was a transfer to an ungraded school, where she might study drawing and dressmaking. These special studies were made the motives for such reading and arithmetic as she might need in the trade of a dressmaker. With some satisfying accomplishments in work for which she has ability, and with a new motive for applying herself to formal GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 439 school work, Rosa will undoubtedly make a satisfactory adjustment.
The transfer to more suitable work will not increase Rosa's intellectual powers. She will always have the handicap of dull mental powers, but successful expression and the removal of the strain of constant failure, to which she was subjected in the regular classroom, will make the highest development of her powers possible,;
Rosa's story mentions another difficulty which should not be overlooked. In her classroom was a younger sister who was brighter than Rosa. The fact that the younger sister had reached the same grade was in itself an embarrassing situation for Rosa. Besides, it would' only add to Rosa's daily humiliation to have her failures witnessed and perhaps laughed at and reported home by her sister. It is often found that a child exposed to such a humiliating experience, or subjected to unfavorable comparison with another member of the family, becomes shy and withdrawn because of the imposed feeling of inferiority. Two children in the same classroom, especially if they have different mental endowments, are likely to have emotional difficulties that will interfere with their intellectual accomplishments. Rosa, undoubtedly experienced a great feeling of relief when she was transferred to a different school.
The ungraded room or ungraded school. May need a word of explanation. In many of the school systems an attempt is made to give special training to children who do not adjust to the usual school work. In a few instances the exceptionally bright children are given special instruction, making it possible for the child to advance more rapidly than if he remained in the regular classroom. Usually, however, the term ungraded room or school applies to special instruction arranged for the retarded or dull child. The classes are smaller and individual supervision is given each child. Special instruction in handwork begins early, and later classes in manual and domestic crafts and arts form an important part of the curriculum. These classes are of particular value in giving the child who is dull in academic work an opportunity to gain expression and satisfaction in some activity for which he has aptitude.
There is some danger, however, of a child suffering humiliation by being placed in a selected group. This is more likely to be the case if the child is not much retarded, and is making great effort, as in the case of John, to succeed at his work. The physical and emotional lives of the children considered for ungraded classes should be studied carefully, as physical or emotional factors may account for temporary retardation, which perhaps may be treated more satisfactorily if the children remain in the regular classroom. No selection should be made on the arbitrary basis of mental tests,

 SOCIETY MAGAZINE
but all the factors of the child's personality and problem should be considered before transfer to an ungraded room is made.
Reference: John and Rosa, Pages 87-92, Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile.
Questions and Problems
1. Give the table and interpretation of the Intelligence Quotient, noting the classification into which John and Rosa fall.
2. Give the definition of mental deficiency, and explain how a "borderline" person may either fit the definition or rise above it.
3.Explain why John was only one year retarded in school, in spite of his dullness. 4, Why will it be inadvisable for John's parents to plan for a high school education for him? 5. Why was Rosa transferred to an ungraded school and John kept in the regular school? 6. Explain why Rosa's sister in the same room added to her unhappiness. 7. Why will John succeed fairly well in spite of his dullness? Why will Rosa? 8. Discuss the value of an ungraded class or school. 9. Are there any ungraded classes or schools  in your community? I Remember Philena Fletcher Homer Ah, now I remember the things that youth forgot: The yellow brier rose in the corner of the lot; My mother's broken quaver as she sang about her work; The dim and dusty attic where the eerie shadows lurk; The singing of the kettle with its heavy iron spout, The hardwood coals a'glowing as we raked the ashes out. I remember the pewter platter, that stood by the cupboard door, The grandsires tale of the sailing from the far-off English shore, The cobwebs in the barnloft where we played upon the hay, The frosty breath of the cattle on a stinging winter's day, The slender fog fingers stealing through the pine trees' barricade, The running pine a'glowing neath the forest's deepest shade. Ah, child that played in the meadows where the yellow daisies grew, Child that I was, now I remember you. fr We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday LAUNDRWY Wasatch 2624 Quality Laundry 625 State Street SALT LAKE CITY ? READ WHAT ONE LEADING MEDICAL AUTHORITY SAYS ABOUT "RADIOACTIVE WATER" Extracts from A Leading Article Reprinted From The January 1926 Issue of "AMERICAN MEDICINE" - By C. Everett Field, M. D., New York City It is now more than twelve years since the writer first attempted the administration of "Radium Salts" in the human subject, and has made over 6,000 such treatments. * * * The Physio-chemical properties of "RADIUM" were first recognized when it was discovered that many of the most notable European Cure Resorts were supplied with Spring Waters abundantly laden with Radio-activity. * * * * * * * * * The internal administration of RADIUM in any form serves to permeate the body with a stream of electrons, which exerts an influence of a catalyzer and synergest. * * * Recognition of Radium Therapy abroad is now a matter of fully twenty years. * * * The Medical profession of this country has largely failed to recognize the tremendous opportunity this method has offered due to the fact that a certain few of our leading Internists have decried the measure without full and complete investigation. *** If the Medical man neglects the acceptance of such information, he is casting aside a remedy that frequently can serve his purpose where no other remedy will avail. This truth I know by twelve years of hard study and application. The Council of Pharmacy of the American Medical Association has officially passed its approval on radio-active waters and radium solutions; the United States Government has also recognized its potency, yet ninety-five percent of the medical profession do not know what it is all about. Dr. Field is recognized as one of the leading medical authorities of America. Investigate NOW. Call and see us or write. The G. & H.