VOL. 23.  	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1894.		 No. 2.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Woman Suffrage
Column--M. E. Irvine. U. W. P. C.—Gladys
Woodmansee. Golden Wedding—M. A. W.—
A Jubilee Wedding—One Of The Guests. Wo-
man’s Social and Literary Club—Grace Mayhen.
Old Folks Day—M. E. K. Ladies, Semi-monthly
Meeting—Vilate Young. The Ethics Of The
Green Bay Tree—W. H. Wilkins. R. S. Reports.
Obituary—G. C. R. W.
EDITORIAL:—Saltair. Editorial Notes.
POETRY:—Saltair—Ruth M. Fox. Approving
Words—Emily H. Woodmansee.


SALTAIR.

		(In honor of the aged assembly there.)
	I HAVE seen thee, Saltair when thy waters soblue,
And thy mountains were tinged with a glorious
	hue, 
When thy turrets were bathed with the sun’s
	golden light,
As in splendor he bade thee a loving good night.
When wealth, fashion and beauty have come at
	thy call,
And sweet music resounded through plaza and
	hall.
When brave youths and fair maidens here sport
	in their glee,
Or in barques ride the crest of thy billowy sea.
A palace of beauty I have seen thee afar,
Bespangled with jewels, each bright as a star,
The great and the noble, thou hast borne on thy
	breast, 
Thy praises are rung from the East to the West
Truly charming and grand, thou art ever Saltair,
But never wert thou half so lovely and fair,
As today, with thy spacious halls crowded with
	guests;
The noblest, the bravest, the truest, the best:
These veterans who have horne the heat of the
	day—
Whose feet never faltered though long was the
	way;
Though storms beat about them until feebled and
	bent:
They have fought many battles—dark clouds
	they have rent. 
Who have had armies behind, and deserts be-
	fore,
Have been tempted and tried ’till their hearts
	were sore;
’Tis to these we all vie to do honor today,
’Tis for these for whom God’s choicest blessings
	we pray. 
Bright garlands of flowers, we might weave for
	the brow,
But honor and victory are resting there now,
And garlands of flowers fade and wither away,
But they have won laurels that will never decay.

Justly proud and exalted, thou must be Saltair,
For the privilege of honoring silvered hair,
Though kings, queens and nobles should all come
	thy way,
Thou hast reached the full zenith of glory today. 
						RUTH M. FOX.


STATEHOOD day at Saltair August first.
Speeches by prominent men. Women
look on and listen.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

	XL.
	FOR a few days Mr. Barrington remained
at home nursed by good Patience Austin,
who was very tender and kind, thinking
him overworked, but knowing nothing of
the difficulty, for she was one who would
not listen to slander and therefore she sel-
dom heard the gossip of evil tongues.
	Mrs. Bland kept her promise and had
sent over to the cottage goodly supplies to
be disbursed by John and Patience Austin,
who knew well the needy, and many were
the messages of gratitude, and prayers for
the generous and charitable widow, sent by
these good people. Mrs. Bland sent Josiah
(her faithful butler) to inquire after Mr.
Barrington and learning he was indisposed
requested Mrs. Austin to come over with
him as soon as he was well ecough. The
following Sabbath he was to preach in an
outlying district, so it was several days be-
fore he could call upon Mrs. Bland, and he
was reluctant to go then even though she
had sent for him.
	He was melancholy and ill at ease, he
had no friend on whom he could rely for
comfort and advice, and somehow it seemed
right and proper that he should trust Mrs.
Bland. When he did call she was aston-
shed at the change in his appearance, jmd
urged him to see a physician he replied
that he was in need of sympathy, that his
situation was very trying, and that since
the Doctor’s death and her bereavement he
had lost his sole confident; in a moment he
felt how childish of him to despond, since
Mrs. Bland whose load was heavy indeed
had so much to bear, and he said, “O, Mrs.
Bland forgive my weakness, you are so
brave and have so much to endure, but the
children take up your mind, while I have
really no one to share my sorrow, no one to
advise me and there are many perplexities
even in my profession.”
	"Have you no sister or brother, no near
relative no ties of kindred?"
	"Alas! no, I am an orphan, alone in the
world, I know nothing of my family, I was
educated by my uncle whom I never saw,
though he was most generous in supplying
me with means while I was at school."
	"And where is he now, do you not hear
from him?"
	"Away in foreign parts somewhere, he
was much annoyed when he learned of my
becoming a dissenting minister, he ex-
pected me to take to the Law, or some lit-
erary work, I disappointed him greatly.”
	"It can’t be helped I suppose for you
are really in earnest and most devout, but
surely he will relent some of these days,
and take you back again or come and look
you up in this new land.”
	"But I have never seen him, never! He
does not know me, a most eccentric gentle-
man my tutor told me, quite celebrated,
entirely alone in the world, had been
crossed in love, a romantic story, I sup-
pose, though I never heard it, only from a
tutor I had when quite a boy, who knew
my uncle very well, and was very fond of
talking about him in a desultory way. I

[Column 2]
do not know if he is living or not, his
solicitor in London told me when I em-
barked, that he had gone abroad for an in-
definite period, and might never return
but added you are at liberty to draw upon
me, should you be unable to support your-
self in the new world to which you are
going.”
	This and much more was said and Mr.
Barrington went away in better spirits,
though he had not alluded to the real cause
of his depression.
	He continued to labor among the people, 
and everything settled down quietly again;
for he bore himself with such heroic dignity
that his revilers were ashamed of their evil
suspicions, and were more deferential than
before. In fact his sermons were more
brilliant and his manner more impressive,
and his congregations gradually increased
in numbers and in religious fervor.
	Time passed on and the children grew
more interesting but required more care.
Mrs. Bland watched over them faithfully,
as though they were all her own Now
and then Maitland would write, but never
satisfactorily, sometimes he would say he
was coming, and again that he should come
for the children. Mrs. Bland felt how ter-
rible it would be to give them into his keep-
ing and yet she knew it must be sooner or
later, hoping against hope, that she might
be permitted to keep Anna.
	At last Lord Walton came with his
patrician mother; his coming heralded be-
forehand and the house made ready; ren-
ovated thoroughly, and many new
luxuries provided. Mrs. Bland dreaded
the ordeal, she had scarcely appeared in
society since her husband’s death; and she
knew Lady Walton would go over all the 
details of both bereavements: and she was
not disappointed for the first day of her in-
stallment she sent for Mrs. Bland to ar-
range matters with her, and plied her with
innumerable questions. Mrs. Bland re-
plied mostly in monosyllables, and never
once referred to Lady Walton’s own affairs
of which she had heard from the floating
rumors more than from Maitland, who
after leaving America had said little about
his mother; in fact it was not known
whether she was still an Italian Countess,
or had resumed her own name. Mrs. Bland
always addressed her by her former title.
	After a few days Lady Walton sent for
the children; Maitland had been with them
most of the time, and seemed very proud
of them especially of Edward. Lady 
Walton was quite overcome when the
children were brought to her, and Maitland
could not understand it, but Jane Bland
knew how like the boy was to her uncle
Edward, and this woman of fashion, this
cold, imperious lady now long past her
youth, had not been able during all these
years to crush out her first love. "How
like Anna the baby is?” she said to Mrs.
Bland, not mentioning the boy.
	The few months that Lady Walton
stayed in America were full of excitement
both in doors and out for the hostilities of
the Indians kept the settlers in terrible sus-
pense, and Lady Walton was very timid;


[Column 1]
she had no affiliation with the Puritans, she
disliked all dissenters, and would not listen
to a word in their favor even from Mrs.
Bland to whom she owed a heavy debt of
gratitude, which at times, when in a kindly
mood, she would acknowledge. It was
easy for one as intuitive as Mrs. Bland to
see that Lady Walton had no intention of
remaining long in the Colonies, and she
felt it her duty to speak of the children.
	On one occasion when her ladyship was
alluding to the various changes that had
transpired in the last few years, Mrs. Bland
said, “And my dear Lady Walton what
will the next few years bring about, have
you any definite plans for yourself or the
children?”
	“Not fully matured we shall have a tutor at
the Hall for Edward and I shall keep Anna
with me for the present, taking with me
the faithful old nurse, we cannot stay here,
Maitland is very unhappy, he lingers
around Anna’s grave until I fear he will
unsettle his mind.”
	All this was uttered as it were in a breath
and Jane Bland was taken by surprise;
especially at the idea of Maitland’s grief,
which no one else had discovered; she felt
grieved that Lady Walton had decided on
taking Anna away, and scarcely knew how
to approach the subject. Finally she took
courage and spoke out, “Lady Walton do
you not think that it would be better to
leave baby with me, you cannot be always
with her, your society obligations will
hamper you, and she is so frail and delicate
just like a dainty, white lily, and I am sure
Anna would rather her little girl should
be brought up secluded, apart from the
world of fashion and style.”
	“I too am tired of all that I once took
delight in, my recent troubles have been so
humiliating I cannot tell you,” (and she
burst into tears) meanwhile Jane Bland
waited. ‘‘I have been driven to despera-
tion almost, I shall live in seclusion at
Walton Hall, and Anna's children will
have the opportunity of becoming familiar
at the old castle. I suppose you are still
interested in that, must be, and you need
have no fears that I shall mingle in society,
it would frown upon me now; but cousin
Jane what do you know of Clair Hilliard
and Rob Harrison?”
	“Nothing whatever, we have never
heard since Anna’s illness and death,
scarcely since our arrival here,” “but who
looks after the Castle?” interrogated Mrs.
Bland anxious to waive the subject broached
by Lady Walton.
	“O, the same faithful old people, every-
thing is well kept I have been over several
times, the steward has allowed me full
liberty to go through the house and grounds
whenever I please, and it has been a mel-
ancholy satisfaction. I can imagine all the
past, summoning in fancy the very people
who banqueted there in the olden time.”
	“If you wish to be so secluded why not
stay here, at least for some time?”
	“Maitland’s interests are at stake, he is
popular with the people in the county, and
it is for his sake I try to keep up, other-
wise I would retire altogether, go to some
foreign land, (a civilized country however)
not where one’s life is in jeopardy every hour
as it is here; besides Maitland will marry
again and who is there here, for him to
choose from? I hope he will secure a wife
who will help him to rise in the world, I
want he should have a place of distinction
if his mother has lost all.”
	This, and much more in the same strain,

[Column 2]
was the wail of an ambitious woman of
fashion who had been the reigning belle for
more than one London season.
	“You have not lost in my opinion, but
gained a wonderful experience even if it
has been dearly bought. You are much
richer now for the severe ordeals through
which you have past, and you have still
great advantages and a wide opportunity
for doing good. These precious children
entrusted to your care, need a wise example
as well as judicious training, a sacred trust
indeed, and heaven grant you will never
grow weary, but if at any time you need
me I shall always be only too willing to
render what help is possible to Anna’s lit-
tle ones.”
	This was their last conversation on the
subject, soon after Lady Walton departed
hurriedly, the mansion was shut up for the
time being and Maitland bade farewell to
Mrs. Bland, who wept as she had never
done before, when parting with the babies
that were like her very own. Maitland
promised to write often and her ladyship
professed the most ardent and lasting
friendship, in which Jane Bland had very
little faith; lonely and absorbed she wended
her way home after seeing the vessel set
sail, but she could not and would not leave
America let what would come; for she had
an abiding faith in the destiny of the new
world.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the Office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, June 30th,
1894, President Shipp in the chair. Pray-
er by Dr. R. B. Pratt, roll call responded to
with sentiments from Emerson. Minutes
of previous meeting read and accepted.
	An entertaining paper on Woman’s
Clubs, by Mrs. Dickenson, was read by the
lady herself in a very pleasing style.
	President E. B. Wells moved that with
the exception of the musical selections the
regular program be dispensed with and we
have an informal reception to Countess
Wachtmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts who
accompanied her, and an address from the
honored guest of the evening. The mo-
tion was seconded and carried into effect.
	Mrs. C. L. Boyden favored the club with
some brilliant musical selections. The
Countess desired members to ask questions
that she might give them such information
as would be elicited in that way; she was
very obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly, several of the
ladies availed themselves of the opportunity
to make inquiries upon a subject compar-
atively new in the West, though old as the
Heathen Philosophy in the East.
	Theosophy, the Countess said, is a great
brotherhood, all religions contain some of
its principles. It has no real organization.
	The Countess remarked that she was
formerly very fond of paintings and works
of art, but since being able to view things
in the astral light, the works of the great
masters were thrown into the shade. Her
style of address is very easy and graceful
and she has great command of language.
	The ladies thoroughly enjoyed the pres-
ence and courtesy of this great exponent of
Theosophy, and consider it a red-letter-day
in the history of the club, to have so emi-
nent and distinguished a woman their guest
for the evening. 
	The program for June, will be given at
the next meeting, July 31st.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

W. S. A.—S. L. CO.
	VERY enjoyable Parlor Meetings in the
interest of suffrage have been held, June
5th, at Mrs. Lucy B. Young’s, at which
speeches were made by ladies’ present.
Music and singing by Miss Mabel Young.
	July 3rd, at Mrs. Adella W. Eardley’s, Dr.
Ferguson, Dr. Barney and other ladies
made short addresses. Singing by Misses
Ball, Eardley and Smith, also Mandolin
Solo by Vilate Eardley.

	MINUTES of regular meeting held July,
17th in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall, second Vice President Elizabeth
M. Price in the chair. Sang, “Come
away.” Prayer Maria Holt. Sang, “Oh
ye fair ones.” Roll called, minutes for
July read and approved. Speech from
President Elizabeth MacFarlane, referred
to the parlor meetings held, much good
might be accomplished this way, if women
would study to talk and not be afraid of the
mistakes they made, we should have more
successful women speakers, read from the
EXPONENT a piece entitled “Woman’s
Sphere,” men have become great who have
taken counsel from their wives. C. C. R.
Wells, thought the points made good, but
many men she knew thought differently and
even if they knew their wives to be right
would not acknowledge it. Some of the
very brightest women are the busiest, all
in the family should be called upon to help,
not expect the mother to drudge for all, in
this way labor is made light and much
more can be accomplished; if women voted
men wouid have to be more careful in
their actions, because women will not vote
for impure men. Maria Holt thought a
mother’s influence over her sons could be
felt in many ways, “teach your sons what
is right, true, and virtuous, then if they
turn away you will not be accountable, did
not believe in women being made house-
hold drudges, but sometimes circumstances


oome along over which no man has con-
trol, then a true woman would be willing
to stand by her husband and save all the
expense she could. Barbara Folsom had
voted and hoped to vote again, thought
she would know more about it then.
Frances Smith was in sympathy with this
movement, had always felt we should vote
again, was glad that we were to become a
state, could not see how we could fulfil our
destiny unless we did.
   President MacFarlane thought it had
educated a number of us having the fran-
chise taken from us. Mary P. Silver read
a piece entitled “Freedom was Queen,” re-
ferred to Y. L. Meeting she had attended,
thought our Young Ladies were getting
ready to fill the places of the older ones.
Vice President E. M. Price related an
amusing incident in regard to voting, the
only time she missed was when she had a
severe headache and felt too sick to go, but
her husband told her she must go, of course,
that decided her that she would stay at
home, and she did. Adjourned till August.
M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


STATEHOOD is an assured fact now at
least as far as the enabling act is concerned,
it remains for the people to do the rest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


APPROVING WORDS.

(To Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor.)
IF kindly thoughts were freely spoken,
What joy we freely could impart:
Approving words. Love’s smallest token
Like a fine tonic, cheers the heart.
Approving words like wayside flowers
Are costless yet so truly sweet—
A boon in this rough world of ours,
Where piercing thorns beset our feet—
'Tis well, to honestly express—
Our thanks, however crude they seem
To honor all whose usefulness
Commands, our most sincere esteem.
Thus unto one whose worth is known—
Whose loyal love, and high intent—
And valor for the truth is shown,
Love’s commendation we present.
In love’s pure labor you rejoice—
And all your staunch co-workers too;
And but imperfectly we voice
The gratitude that is your due.
Obedient to the Lord’s command!
True to his cause in every thing,
Right in the foremost rank you stand,
Among the "Daughters of the King."
With love’s own pardonable pride,
These royal daughters look to you—
(Their delegated chief and guide)
For counsel and instruction true.
To twine fresh laurels round your brow,
And pay in part, the debt they owe,
From far and near they gather now,
With countenances all aglow
A Legion! second unto none,
A virgin army, Zion's boast!
"Fair as the moon, clear as the sun"
And mighty as a bannered host.
Unlimited their power and scope,
Uncircumscribed their growth and pace;
The nation’s brighest, surest hope,
The future mothers of the race.
You, as a Leader, needs must feel,
How sacred is the power you hold;
The worth of well-directed zeal—
Exceeds the potency of gold.
Long may you live to fill the part—
Assigned you, in these “Latter days”
And unto God let ev’ry heart,
Ascribe the glory, and the praise.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
GOLDEN WEDDING.

	Bishop John Brown, and his wife
Elizabeth, celebrated their Golden Wed-
ding on Monday the 21st of May, 1894.
	Their children tendered them a reception at
the City Hall, where relatives and friends
gathered to do the aged couple honor.
Loving hands had artistically decorated the
hall. In an alcove, designed by Sister M.
A. Winters, tastefully arranged with lace
curtains draped back with a golden chain
and ornamented with flowers, were seated
the bride and groom. On the walls hung
family groups and historic pictures encased
in golden frames. In a conspicious place,
hung the old rifle, well remembered by the
pioneer camp, which in the hands of Brother
Brown never failed to bring in their game,
he thus earned the title of "the hunter of
the camp." The guests began to arrive at
4 p. m., and offered greeting to the vener-
able couple, with appropriate sentiments.
	Social conversation was indulged in till

[Column 2]
called to order by Master of Ceremonies,
Alex. Bullock. Elder Edward Stevenson
offered the opening prayer which was fol-
lowed by singing “Love at home,” full
chorus. Short speeches were made by
Pioneer Battalion veterans, old reminiscenses
were brought to mind. At 6. p. m. one
hundred and twenty-five guests partook of
refreshments, the tables made an imposing
appearance with lovely floral decorations
and immense wedding cake appropriately
ornamented.
	After the inner man was satisfied Brother
J. J. Hayes rendered an original poem
which reflected great credit upon the author.
Mrs. F. E. Stewart gave a retrospect on
the life work of this venerable couple,
which was a pleasing surprise to Brother
and Sister Brown as it carried them back to
the scenes of youth, courtship and marriage,
and along through the varied changes of
life.
	Letters of congratulation and regret were
read by Brother Jas. T. Thorne from their
Son James L. who is attending the Univer-
sity at Ann Arbor also from several of their
daughters who were unable to be present.
	Brother and Sister Stevenson addressed
the assemblage, also speeches from other
guests interspersed with songs and recita-
tions.
	A response was given by the venerable
couple, expressing their sincere gratitude to
all who had contributed to the entertain-
ment of the evening. All convention-
alities were laid aside, a spirit of peace and
love pervaded the assembly and all agreed
that it was the most enjoyable time they
had ever experienced.
	This was entered upon the ward records
as the first Golden Wedding celebrated in
Pleasant Grove. M. A. W.

A JUBILEE WEDDING.
	I had never contemplated the grandeur
of a Golden Wedding until the one we
have just celebrated here in Pleasant
Grove that of the Honored Pioneer and
Patriarch John Brown and his wife Eliza-
beth our beloved and respected President
of the Relief Society for twenty four years.
That two mortal beings could dwell to-
gether on this mundane sphere and sail
down the stream of time past the snags,
the rocks and the sandbars, the cataracts and
whirlpools on past the seven times seven
mile stone, that mark the long years of
their voyage, and faithfully kept the cove-
nants they made at the altar, and at length
reach in safety the Jubilee Harbor, is a
gloriously pleasing reflection and pays a
high compliment to the nobility of their
souls, and pronounces their marriage not a
failure but a grand success; and what
makes it still more beautiful is—that this
noble pair has lived in the Patriarchal order
of marriage for forty years and in connection
with the other helpmates, have reared
three families of children to manhood and
womanhood, and no divorce court has
marred the sanctity of the home circle; this
true hearted man has sent no Hagar forth
to wander in the wilderness, and this faith-
ful woman has driven no Ishmael forth to
die in the desert—then we must certainly
acknowledge that this noble couple of the
nineteenth century have out done even
Abraham and Sarah of old, proving that
the Patriarchal Order of marriage with them
has not been a failure either.
	This brave Pioneer who stood beside the
Apostle Orson Pratt, was the first to look

[Column 3]
upon the now far-famed valley of the Great
Salt Lake, but unlike Moses the leader of
old who had a similar privilege, this good
man has entered into the promised land
dwelling here for many years cultivating
the soil, making homes, instructing and
blessing the people. And the numerous
posterity of this Patriarchal family are now
spreading forth, helping to populate the fair
valleys of Ephraim and becoming a
strength in the midst of Zion. When
death had entered this goodly household
and a portion of these children were bereft
of a mother’s love—this noble mother in
Israel took the orphans beneath her shel-
tering wing, thus adding testimony to
testimony of her integrity to the cause she
had espoused.
	And this righteous man although thrice
married, his deportment towards the op-
posite sex has been all that the most
fastidious could demand, in this respect
exceling King David himself; and when
missionary duties called this zealous elder
forth to journey in distant lands how brave-
ly the faithful wife held the home fort,
laboring with her might for the sustenance
and well being of her household; and when
their earthly work is finished and they
reach the golden shore, who shall say
that he will not be an Apostle of the Lamb
in our Father’s Kingdom and she a Priestess
by his side.
ONE OF THE GUESTS.


WOMAN’S SOCIAL AND LITERARY
			     CLUB.
	A NUMBER of the ladies of Pleasant
Grove met at the residence of Miss Emma
Larson on Oct. 11th, 1893, for the purpose
of organizing a woman’s club for social and
literary improvement. The following of-
ficers were elected. Mrs. F. E. Stewart
president, Miss Emma Larson first Vice
President, Miss P. E. Brown second Vice
President, Grace Mayhen Secretary, Vina
Thorne, Treasurer. After some discussion
it was concluded to call the club “Sorosis”
after the first Woman’s Club that was or-
ganized for social and literary advancement.
Ten members were enrolled. We hold
parlor sessions every Wednesday evening
at the residence of someone of the mem-
bers. Our regular work consists of study
of United States History, Pronunciation
of words—Readings from Popular Authors
and specially prepared subjects. We have
met with the usual difficulties of members
joining and becoming tired,but our increase
has equaled our decrease and we still have
a membership of ten. We have some
very active members and have made marked
progress since our organization. We have
read an account of the Utah Federation of
Clubs, which reminded us that we had not
yet sent in our report.
GRACE MAYHEN, Sec.
Pleasant Grove June, 21st 1894.


MRS. KATE CHASE is writing the biogra-
phy of her father. She lives in the old
home at Edgewood, where Salmon P. Chase
lived while Chief Justice of the United
States. She has managed the estate for
many years, and has changed its appearance
from a farm into a park.


Woman’s Exponent.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	JULY15,1894.


[Column 1]
SALTAIR.
A FAMOUS PLEASURE RESORT.
THIS year Saltair has carried off the
palm of all the numerous resorts and re-
treats, for rest, recreation and enjoyment.
It has had its praises sounded loud and
long, by tourists, strangers, and visitors; in
song, in poetry, in prose, and it has been
done up in all styles of pictures and photo-
graphs, and yet no one has been able so far
to create for the imagination a picture as
gloriously grand as Saltair and the Lake
itself at sunset.
Old Folks day has been a great day for the
last nineteen years but the ninth of July at
Saltair this year, was the climax of old
folks celebrations. There were more old
people and more young people to wait on
them, and the place was such a suprise to
them, and to one looking on: the great
variety of nationalities and the wonderful
dissimilarity in face and expression as well
as in dress, it was a study from life not
soon to be forgotten.
The Old Folks Choir and Brother God-
dard “did themselves proud” with their
singing, and the Committee were untiring
ing in their efforts to see that all these
fourteen hundred had a good time.
Brother C. R. Savage was missed however
from the jolly crowd, but there were lots of
Bishops and the good sisters of the Relief
Society, and the tables were loaded with
everything good to eat.
President Woodruff, the veteran pioneer,
spoke to the assembly, also Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith,
but unfortunately only those nearest the
platform could hear what was said, but felt
sure it was all true and good.
The Bicycle drill was a genuine amuse-
ment, and every body enjoyed it immensely,
judging from the vociferous applause.
There were a great many red ribbon
badges indicating seventy years, and quite
a number of blue ones marking the four
score, and a few, five I believe, white ones
for four score and two. Father Tucker, for
many years Heber C. Kimball’s gardener,
was the oldest man present, and Sarah Free,
ninety four, the oldest woman. The meet-
ing and greeting of these old people is one
of the happy features of the gathering. It
is so kindly, so intensely real, and so es-
sentially different to the ordinary everyday
handshaking and bowing of the people who
are pursuing ordinary business pursuits and
occupations. In no other place in the

[Column 2]
world that we know of has this honored
custom obtained, of giving the old peoplo of
all classes, races and conditions, a general
holiday each year, except in our own dear
Utah. Long may it continue, and the
young people learn the valuable lesson of
true respect and veneration for the aged
whose pleasures are few, and whose days
often seem wearisome and cheerless as time
rolls on in the descent of life.

The Home Industry Association had an
excursion to Saltair on the 12th, and
drew a large crowd. The inducements
were somewhat suggestive and quite uni-
que, as there was to be a handsome chair
for the woman longest resident in the val-
ley, and a handsome lady’s cape for the
woman who had been longest engaged in
philanthropic work, and so on and so on.
Then there was to be quite a musical pro-
gram, recitation and speeches, and al-
together the affair promised a great deal
beforehand in the way of entertainment,
and the people wore not disappointed in
this respect.
The young, the gay and the beautiful
were there assembled, the aged matrons
and stalwart veterans, and the day was fine
for bathing and the music inspiring to
dancers. However first came the program,
Mrs. W. S. McCornick, President of the
Home Industry Association, presided, and
the band gave a charming musical selection.
B. F. Grant Esq. made the opening address
giving the object and aims of the Associa-
tion, he was loudly applauded.
The Harmony Club, all excellent male
voices gave a choice vocal selection in good
voice and pleasing style, the Sicilian ten
lovely girls in white, sang Longfellow’s
poem, “Life is real, life is earnest,” in their
sweetest way, and were followed by Mrs.
Boyden an accomplished elocutionist, who
recited, “How Salvator Won The Race,”
the audience called for an encore, and she
gave a pretty love tale. Brief addresses
were made on the subject of home indus-
tries by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Doctor E. B.
Ferguson and the Reverend Dr. Iliff, then
came the distribution of the articles
mentioned. The chair was awarded to
Sister Louisa Norris Decker, the cape to
Sister M. Isabella Horne, and the three
pairs of suspenders to Brother George B.
Wallace, who was the oldest resident in
the valley as there were no pioneers
present, Brother Wallace and Sister Decker
who secured the chair came in September
1847—just a few weeks after the pioneers.

THE largest number of people gathered
at Saltair this year so far, was at the re-
union or celebration of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A., July 13th. The crowd was
too great to admit of much enjoyment ex-
cept to those who delight in bathing and
dancing. There was a regular program
and prizes were given for excellence in
music and composition but there were not
as many competitors as there should have
been to make it interesting, or to bring out
the talent of the young people, as such op-
portunities should. Financially the affair
was a great success, and to those who were
directly interested in making it profitable as
well as enjoyable, this fact must be an in-
tense satisfaction. Certainly there is need
of means to further the interests of any
organization and one so eminently calculated
to do great good as the Mutual Improve-
ment Associations should be sustained by
all legitimate methods so far as practicable.

[Column 3]
Sister Mary A. Freeze and her Counselors
and Aids, as also the Presidency of the
Young Men’s Associations, may be con-
gratulated on the outcome of their under-
taking.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE regret being compelled to leave over
matter already set for the paper but it is
unavoidable. An Ovation to Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor (though we publish the poem
read on the occasion,) and Countess
Wachtmeister, A Trip through Oneida
Stake and Susan B. Anthony’s Letter to
the Women of Utah, will appear in the
next number.
	THOSE interested in the EXPONENT are
reminded that this is the time for yearly
payment of subscription, and it is need-
less to add that money is necessary to main-
tain a newspaper. The actual need of a
woman’s paper in which to represent the
views, opinions and aims of the women of
a growing community like that of Utah,
aside from womens’ organizations which
really must have an organ for keeping in
touch with each other, should prompt every
one who has the public welfare, at heart, to
subscribe for the paper published in their
own interest.

MRS. PRISCILLA JENNINGS is about
opening a sewing class for young girls in a
cottage on her private grounds, and she
will in person superintend the affair, as-
sisted by one or two other ladies, who have
volunteered their services. It is purely a
charitable undertaking on her part, though
she is hopeful it may put those who become
efficient with the needle,in the way of earn-
ing money, and qualify them for positions
where they can earn an honorable livlihood.
Of course Mrs. Jennings can only take a
limited number under her care, but there
are other ladies who might “go and do
likewise.”

THERE was a very pleasant family
gathering at the old homestead of Brother
and Sister Edward Stevenson on Wednes-
day afternoon and evening July 12th. The
company was mostly the Stevensons,
Clarks, Wilcoxs and Burtons, and a very 
happy crowd they seemed to be. There
were a few old friends not exactly relatives,
the Hornes and Sisters B. W. Smith, S.
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and one or two
more. The guests did ample justice to the
elaborate dinner, and the conversation was
a genuine feast in itself. There was some
excellent music by members of the family,
and a fair showing of babies; among them
a pair of twins exceptionally fine children.
Brother Stevenson has been a great traveler
and always has interesting reminiscences to
relate of the early days, as well as of his
journeyings in other lands. Such social
gatherings promote good feeling among
friends and leave pleasant memories for
days to come.

ON Saturday afternoon, June 16th ult a
company of ladies met at the residence of
Sister Julia C. Howe in honor of her birth-
day anniversary which occurred on the 17th,
and being Sunday the previous day was
chosen for the visit. The same day was,
also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Maria W. Wilcox, therefore it was a
sort of double celebration. It was the
season of roses, and the beautiful parlor of
Sister Howe’s lovely home was like a


veritable bower of beauty and fragrance.
There were about thirty guests, and con-
versation was general until after tea, when
a request was made by the hostess that
Sister Horne act as chairman, and the
sisters express their feelings and sentiments,
as she wished to hear from all present. A
hymn was sung, a prayer offered, and short
addresses were made by almost every one
in the room. All who spoke expressed
their love for Slsters Howe and Wilcox and
their appreciation of their noble work in
the interest of the several organizations of
which they were both earnest and active
members. It was a day long to be re-
membered for the sweet spirit of love and
good will that flowed from heart to heart.
To both of these dear sisters the EXPONENT
extends sincere congratulations for many
happy returns of the day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS DAY.

	Is it possible that old folks day will be
recognized this year, I must say that it
hardly seemed probable, for since monopoly 
and labor have had so hard a struggle to
know which will be victorious, it seems to
paralyze all business affairs: but I am happy
to learn that it has not affected the love
that our people have for each other; and I
hope it may never hinder us from placing
our affections upon those who have proved 
themselves worthy of our love, by adher-
ing to sound and true principles.
	Old folks day is truly a joyful one to the
aged, and seems to be to the youth as well,
for while they are paying so much respect
to the aged they really appear to those per-
sons angelic, and give us a foretaste of
heaven, and why this great demonstration,
on an occasion like this?
	Is it not to show that they have not for-
gotten the time, when their parents
welcomed them to earth? And Oh! how
tenderly and faithfully they watched and
cared for those tender plants, hoping they
might become plants of renown in our 
Father’s Kingdom. And, now it is well
that this love should be given in return to
parents and grand-parents not only our own
but all the aged as well whose love has
been, and still is, sacred, forming so many
silken ties. I feel that these are days of
inspiration, and those persons, or that one
who invented, or proposed this arrangement
was surely inspired by the good spirit to do
so.
	How refreshing it is to those who are on
the down hill side of life to meet old friends
on an occasion like this: also our young
friends who make the time so joyful. And
since love is a prominent attribute of the
Deity should it not be cherished toward
worthy objects, and where shall they be
found if not those dear ones who have been
climbing the rugged steep of life for so
many years earnestly seeking for improve-
ment in all the duties of life, and with an
earnest zeal, we find it brings its own re-
ward now when they are aged and infirm.
St. Paul once said “Give honor to whom
honor is due, love to whom love and fear to
whom fear.” 
	And is this the motive which prompts
our youth today. Oh yes, you can see it in
the expression of the eye and every feature
of the face, while they are passing delicate
refreshments, also in their song of welcome
to the aged ones, and how do the aged feel
at this time? They feel to bless them in
the sincerity of their hearts; tears of grati-

[Column 2]
tude may be seen starting in the eye while
they gaze with love and admiration on the
lovely group who are so devoted to their
aged friends with words of welcome.
	Yesterday being Old Folks’ Day, I
must tell you of another pleasant time we
had in meeting old friends who still remain,
although not all that we met last year, for
each year we find that some few of them
have been called home; their mission on
earth is ended, and they have gone to meet
loved ones who have gone before and no
doubt they have a joyful meeting.
	This time the Excursion met at Saltair, a
lovely watering place on the border of the
Lake. Here we arrived about 10 o’clock,
that is the aged ones, and a goodly number
it was: for each year a few more have
reached the age of seventy which keeps up
our number and much more, but all are
welcomed by the Committee as well as their
friends.
	Cars were coming and going all day
bringing friends of the aged people, we
were made happy in seeing the First
Presidency and hearing them address the
people.
	President Woodruff spoke of the changes
which have taken place in this valley since
our arrival. He asked “Did we ever ex-
pect to see cars running by Electricity or
see such a structure as this at Saltair?” His
remarks were interesting and his voice
strong and clear although he is eighty-seven
years of age.
	We have twenty-three Wards in this City
and each ward is supposed to set a table of
their own, which would accomodate the
aged of their ward and the friends who
came from other settlements. The tables
seemed well provided with eatables cooked
at home, only hot tea and coffee, besides
lemonade and nice fruit and flowers made
the table complete, while the salt air gave
us a good appetite, and the cooking was
generously praised.
	At 4 o’clock another large company
came in, and as the cars left, took as many
home to the city: I myself being one of the
number. We arrived home in good season
well satisfied with the day’s amusement,
and I fancy that I was strengthened and
greatly benefited by my trip with other of
my aged friends, I also felt to offer up an
earnest prayer for all who felt to contribute
to this day’s entertainment, that the measure
they mete out may be meted out to them
again four fold, and they may possess the
same happy spirit that we felt that day.
	With Sincere Respect,
						M. E. K.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, June
30th, 1894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “Oh!
Jesus the Giver." Prayer by Counselor
Webb. Continued by singing, “Oh my
Father.” Sister Horne apologized for
coming in a little late, was unavoidably
detained, was more anxious than usual to-
day as it had been her desire to commemor-
ate the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
assassination of the Prophet Joseph. “It was
my intention to have the hymn, “A poor
way faring men of grief” etc, sung at the
meeting, it being the hymn the Prophet
asked to have sung on the day of his
Assassination; he asked to have it sung a
second time, but before his request could

[Column 2]
be complied with, the MOB were upon them:
I felt very desirous of holding Memorial
srevices on the fiftieth anniversary of the
Martyrdom of the Prophet, I called to see
Brother Angus M. Cannon about it; but
was unable to see him. I think it is a day
that should be remembered by all the Lat-
ter Day Saints.”
	By request, Sister Lydia Alder read the
hymn. Brothers Jenson and Binder,
having come in to lay before the meeting
an item of business, opportunity was given
them. Brother Jensen said, “We owe you
some explanation, coming in uninvited.
We are here in the interest of the aged.
We contemplate giving them an Excursion
to Saltair, have invited them to partake of
our hospitality, we expect several hundred
from out side Stakes. Probably a thousand
or more from this Stake. We hope the
Saints will be on hand as they have always
been before, hope the sisters from the 
country wards will come forward as usual.
Let us give Country visitors a Royal Wel-
come. We have been grandly entertained
by our Country Friends on previous oc-
casions. Let us manifest our appreciation;
making them as welcome and happy, it
will be a day long to be remembered. We
would like each Ward to prepare for at
least fifty more than their own aged. Fur-
ther instructions will be given through the
Bishops of the various wards. Addressing
Sister Horne, Brother Jenson said, “I
would now like to speak on some other sub-
ject. I want to say the Relief Society
keeps the most complete records of any
organization I know of in the Church. I
also find they take good care of the records.
There are exceptions of course. We have
in some instances, had to go to the Relief
Society for data concerning Bishops.”
Spoke a short time on the Martyrdom of
the Prophet, had recently visited Carthage.
“Its my opinion the Prophet was killed
while in the window it being so near the
ground, it seems to me impossible he could
have been hurt by falling so short a dis-
tance. The old Jail is now used as a dwell-
ing house, the room in which they were
shot, as a bed room. The old well has
been filled up, and a beautiful flower
garden takes its place. The lady in charge
is very pleasant, often giving a bunch of
flowers as a token of remembrance to those
who visit there. I am pleased to state we
have, at last, been able to obtain the old
records of David Whitmer, much of im-
portance to our people is contained therein.”
Made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Horne said, “I am pleased that
Brother Jenson has touched upon the sub-
ject he has. I well remember the first time
I shook hands with the Prophet I was
thrilled through as with an electric shock.
I could testify to the whole world I knew
he was a Prophet of God. Think of what
a mighty man he must have been, I have
heard him tell of his first vision. No other
mortal man ever accomplished as much as
he did. His life was threatened repeatedly,
yet was spared to complete his wonderful
work. Tongue cannot tell what joy I ex-
perience in being permitted to live in this
period of time.” Exhorted sisters to be
faithful in all things pertaining to the
Gospel, etc.
	Sister Sarah Kimball said, “I am afraid
I cannot control my feelings, I was present
at the meeting of the Relief Society, the
third meeting, I think, when we received
the first intimation of the Prophet going
home. He told the Sisters to cultivate love,


[Column 1]
peace and charity. Said the day is not far
distant when you will wish to hear my
voice, but will not. A sister at the close of
the meeting, said, ‘Brother Joseph, why
did you hurt our feelings?’ All present
felt a depression, the very elements
mourned. A dreadful gloom was felt for
days before the Martyrdom.” Made other
interesting remarks.
	Brother Binder spoke a short time giving
further instructions regarding the excursion
of the Old Folks; thought all should be in-
terested in aiding in so good a cause. “We
have had good times on previous occasions.
There is nothing should give us more
pleasure, than making the aged happy in
their declining years.”
	Sister Brown spoke a short time on the
same subject. “I knew when I went into
the waters of Baptism that Joseph was a
Prophet of God, have never had a doubt to
this day.” Related a dream, where she
was on the water, the ship on fire, of try-
ing to have faith to walk on the water.
“I desire to live so that my life will be ac-
ceptable in the sight of God,I ask the same
blessing on all my Sisters.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps related her experience
on the day of the assassination. Was
working in the garden, when something
like a panorama passed before her, could
see the prison and the soldiers, saw Brother
Hyrum fall, cried out ‘‘they have shot
him,” being asked “who” answered “I
dont know.” “Who did it look like.”
“I answered, ‘like the picture of Brother
Joseph,’ up to this time I had never seen
him.” Closed her remarks by exhorting
the Sisters to faithfulness.
	Another Sister spoke of the Prophet as a
mighty man of God. The Savior had his
blood spilled for our sins. Our loved
Prophet sealed his testimony with his blood.
I feel to say “God Bless the aged, they
have borne much for the Gospel, I take 
great comfort in reading the book called,
“Women of Mormondom.” Think of the
severe trials they have passed through. I
have trials but I praise God continually for
his goodness, in giving me a knowlege
that this is the Church and Kingdom of
God.”
	Sister Alder, "I have felt the Martyrdom
more than ever before. I feel that all fain
would have kept the Prophet with us but
he could not be spared to us. I feel that I
know him, although I never saw him, it is
for us to be faithful, and testify of the
Savior, and of Joseph as a Prophet; and
they will surely testify to the Lord of us.
The question will be asked ‘What work
have you done?’ I have too much to live
for to neglect my duties here. We know
our loved ones who are gone, are safe. We
must prepare to meet them.”
	Sang “Hail! to the Prophet” etc.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the pleasant
time the Temple workers had enjoyed at
Brigham City. “The instructions we re-
ceived were treasures, Brother Woodruff
spoke on the sign of the times. Testified
that the Angel had gone forth to pour out
the vial of his wrath on the nations of the
earth. Let us be true Saints, doing to
others as we would be done by, having
charity, love and good will for all.”
	Sister M E. Kimball gave a brief sketch
of her experience with the Saints in
Nauvoo, of her admiration of the life of the
prophet. The many trials she had passed
through for the Gospel, with it all there had
never arisen a doubt in her mind in regard
to the truth of this Latter-day work.

[Column 2]
President Horne made some closing re-
marks, spoke of the necessity of living
near the Lord, of being faithful to all duties
particularly to mothers to impress upon the
minds of their children the principles of the
Gospel. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
	Sang, “Weep! Weep! not for me,”
benediction by Brother Andrew Jenson.

	VITLAB YOUNG, Sec.


196 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ETHICS OF THE GREEN BAY
			TREE.

		BY W. H. WILKINS.
	“I MYSELF,” said the Psalmist, “have
seen the ungodly in great power: and
flourishing like a green bay tree.” The
Psalmist said that a long time ago; probably
a good many people said the same thing
before him; certainly a good many have
echoed it since. If it were ever true at all,
it is true of our day and generation. In
the circumstances of modern life the
spectacle of the wicked flourishing and the
good going to the wall is one of almost
every-day occurrence. It is an object-les-
son, though it is not one which squares
with bread-and-butter views of life, or the
axioms of copybook morality. It is the
truth, though we may blink at it. As St.
Jerome once put it, since offences must
come of the truth, it is better that they
should come from the truth being known
than from the truth being concealed. If
we face facts and sweep aside illusions, we
shall recognize that in the struggle of life
to-day the chances are largely in favor of
those whom the Psalmist called the “un-
godly.”
	Let us look at politics, since here, per-
haps more than anywhere else, we may feel
the pulse of a people. There are certain
notable exceptions. But who are often the
most successful politicians—as the world
counts success? Are they not the men who
are cleverest in office at evading the pledges
which they have given when out, who
burn what they once adored and adore what
once they burned? Are they not those who
astutely trim their sails to the passing
breeze, and who show a nice faculty for
pandering to the prejudices of the hour?
But the men who look above and beyond
all this, who count self as nothing, and
worldly advancement as dross, who do
right because it is right, heedless of censure
and fearless of consequence—such men
die as Gordon died, alone, deserted, betrayed
or as Hildebraud died, who cried on his
death-bed, “I have loved righteousness and
hated iuiquity, therefore I die in exile.”
Such as these latter are said to be madmen,
enthusiasts, fanatics, unpractical people,
and for those others is reserved the praise,
and the power, and the glory. With this
code of political morals there is also a new
nomenclature. If a man lie he is said to
be diplomatic, if he trick he is a politician,
if he swallow his pledges wholesale he is a
true statesman, if he commit a shameless
volte-face he recognizes the "onward march
of the forces of the future.” The “flow-
ing tide” is with him.
	But politics can by no means claim a
monopoly on the Green Bay Tree. Its
branches also shelter Society—with a big
S—bien entendu. Here more than any-
where else the false god Mammon is bowed
down to and worshipped. Dives holds
court and his halls are thronged. What
matter if vulgarity and vice jostle one
another in his ante-chambers, and mean-

[Column 2]
ness and avarice meet at his gates? What
matter it if his wealth be amassed by the
“sweating” of his industrial slaves? He
has amassed it, that is enough. Society
will flock to his parties, eat his dinners,
drink his champagne, and will go away and
abuse him, most probably But it will
abuse him behind his back; to his face it
will fawn upon him and everything that is
his. In the marriage mart of modern
Babylon, Dives old or young may mate with
the fairest and most patrician of the land.
It matters nothing if he be shallow-brained,
vicious, unprincipled, unwholesome in body
and mind—he is Dives, that is enough.
Parents vie with one another to secure him
for their daughters, and the daughters—
the pity of it!—eagerly second their efforts.
Here again we find the same objection to
calling things by their right names. A
mother sells her daughter in loveless mar-
riage for wealth or position, or the daughter
sells herself, and it is called “making a
good match.” The Church blesses, and
the world approves. The woman in the
street sells herself for half-a-crown that she
or her children may not starve. But she is
spurned, shunned, a Pariah, a vile thing fit
only to be cast out and trodden under foot
of men! Her very existence is ignored by
the Society which is responsible for her
creation. Yet may it not be that in the
eyes of Him from Whom no secrets are hid
this one is justified rather than the other?
	In commercial life the Green Bay Tree
flourishes exceedingly. It is admitted that
if a man would live and avoid bankruptcy
he must do as others do. In other words
he must “Cheat and be cheated”—practice
a species of commercial cannibalism. If
one tells the same lie very often, by a
curious process of self delusion one at last
almost gets to believe that it is the truth.
Even so in the modern mart certain dis-
honest practices have been practised so
long that, by prescription, they have al-
most come to be considered honest.
Adulteration of goods, false values, bribes,
breaches of trust—these things, not called
by these names perhaps, are done under the
shadow of the green tree. In the dry, the
plucking of pigeons, false and misleading
prospectuses, cooked balance-sheets, bubble
companies, go merrily on. Company pro-
moters, “financial agents,” and such like
vermin, fatten and flourish; their dupes and
victims starve. Men of light and leading,
naked and unashamed, give their name to
some fraudulent scheme to serve as decoys
to the widow and the orphan. These emi-
nent ones astutely sell their shares before
the crash comes, but the widow and the
orphan are ruined. What of it? The
starving man who steals a roll from a
baker’s shop is punished with the utmost
rigor of the law, but such men as these,
who devour widows’ houses and for pre-
tence make long prayers, go scot free, and
live and die in the odor of sanctity.
	Ex uno disce omnes. The canting
grocer who sings psalms in his little Bethel
and goes home to sand the sugar; the
Society woman who cheerfully confesses in
a fashionable church that she is “a misera-
ble sinner,” and then struts off to the Park
to backbite her neighbors; the honored
head of a household who unctuously be-
gins the day with long-winded family
prayers, and spends the rest of it nagging
the wife of his bosom, bullying his children
and worrying his servants; the titled
capitalist who heads subscription lists for
promoting the Gospel among the foreign


[Column 1]
heathen with money rack-rented from the
home-made heathen, who huddle in his
slum-dwellings a mile or two, may be, from
his beloved Exeter Hall;—these and many
more belong to the same goodly company.
These all wax fat and kick, as Jehushrun
did of old. “Lo, these are the ungodly,
these prosper in the world, and these have
riches in possession.”
	Yet they are not ungodly as the world
counts ungodliness, neither are they dis-
honest as the world judges dishonesty. 
They have not placed themselves without
the pale of Society; they have not come
within the lash of the law, they have not 
broken the greatest commandment of all:
‘‘Thou shall not be found out.”
	On the contrary they have succeeded.
They have large balances at their bankers
and when one has that one has all the
virtues. The world worships success, and 
is indifferent to the means by which it is
obtained. But it metes out terribly hard
measure to failure. And yet—surely
things are so that the chances are largely in
favor of good failing. The poor, honest
man who pays his just dues, defrauds no
one, helps others, what chance has he in the
race for gold? He starts handicapped by
scruples, weighed down by a conscience. 
Ten to one, from being poor he becomes
poorer, and dies in want. And then of
course he has no virtues. He cannot be
righteous since he is begging his bread.
His misfortunes are his own fault, he has
brought them on himself. He has made
his bed,so must he lie. The snug Pharisee
passes him by on the other side, and
sententiously remarks that, “The way of
transgressors is hard.”
	Of course to those who believe in the
eternal justice of things—these things mat-
ter not. They are merely ‘‘temporal
troubles” which pass and fade away. As
Paley complacently argues, the future
system of rewards and punishments will
make all things equal. But not all of us
have the “blessed assurance” of Paley.
The good virtuous ones, those who lead
honest, sober and cleanly lives, may per-
haps be excused an occasional spasm of
impatience that the Mills should grind so
slowly. In the meantime, there is a ter-
rible temptation to go and do likewise.
They may remember that, after all, there
is high sanction for the maxim to make
friends of the Mammon of Unrighteousness
and they may be mindful also that the
children of this world are in their genera-
tion wiser than the children of light.
	Yet surely there is a more excellent way
for the children of light than this. They
may turn the other side of the shield, and
in the reflex thereof they will see some-
thing of the brightness which clings around
“whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever
things are lovely, whatsoever things are of
good report.” They will see also that
these people and these conditions are the
outcome of the two factors which rule all
our lives, heredity and environment, and
this thought will make them very pitiful.
If they be true children of light they will
not stop at pity, but will set to work to re-
move the causes which have made such a 
state of things possible. Their labor will 
not be in vain, for in spite of much to dis-
courage, there is much to bid them hope.
If man be not wholly good, neither is he
wholly bad. Life is not all leaden-hued.
In the windows of a squalid East-end slum
may sometimes be seen, in spite of grime
and fog and smuts, bright-hued flowers,

[Cloumn 2]
tended by loving hands, little bits of color
in the all-pervading gloom. So too in the
throng of dull, unlovely lives, some pure
unselfish souls may be found, happy, and
diffusing their happiness around them.
The children of light must gather these into
their union—a union which shall link to-
gether all those that love in the service of
all those that suffer, a union of all those
whose religion is not dogma but deeds.
One will work in one way, one in another,
but each will strive to make his little cor-
ner of God’s earth something better than
he found it. In this way alone will the axe
be laid at the root of the Green Bay Tree,
and the place where it now flonrishes will
know it no more.—The Humanitarian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake convened in the As-
sembly Hall June 15th, 1894. President
M. I. Horne presiding. On the stand with
the President was Counselor E. S. Taylor,
Aids Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder,
President Zina D. Young and others.
Meeting opened with singing, “Come,
come ye Saints,” etc. Prayer by Sister
Margaret Steele. Singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee,” etc.
Minutes of previous morning session read and
approved. Roll called and responded to
as follows, nineteen branches represented
by Presidents, ten by Counselors, one by
Secretary, and one by Treasurer; making
thirty-one branches, leaving seventeen with-
out representation. President Horne in her
opening remarks spoke of the peculiar
times in which we are living and of the
necessity of living near to our Heavenly
Father. The things we are passing
through had been predicted and we should
be prepared to meet them. Expressed her
regrets at there being so few officers
present, thought they did not honor their
positions; if they were not alive to their
duties they could not expect much of the
members. They should stimulate and set
good examples to the rest, spoke further on
the duties and responsibilities devolving
upon officers of Relief Society, and of the
importance of using our time and ability in
the building up of Zion. Verbal reports,
first Ward, President Steele, second,
President Bassett; third, Counselor Smith;
fourth, Counselor Sperry; seventh, Counse-
lor Cooper; eighth, Treasurer Morris; ninth
President Mair; tenth, Counselor Pyper;
eleventh, Counselor Morris; twelfth, Presi-
dent Druce; thirteenth, President, Grant;
fourteenth, President Wilcox; sixteenth,
President Reid; seventeenth, Secretary
Bull; eighteenth, Counselor Wright; nine-
teenth President Neal; twentieth, Presi-
dent Miller; twenty-first, Counselor Taylor;
twenty-second, President Whipple; Center
Ward, President Whittaker; Brighton,
President Hazon; Draper, Secretary Burn-
ham; Farmer’s Ward, President Turnbow;
Granger, President Porter; North Jordan,
President Pixton; Pleasant Green, Presi-
dent Hurst; Riverton, President Silcock;
Sugar House, Counselor Hardy; South
Cottonwood, President Rawlins; Sandy,
President Olsen; Union, Counselor Griffiths.
All testified to the good spirit that prevailed
in their branches, and the good being done
among the poor, President Horne said she
was pleased with the reports. Thought

[Column 2]
meeting should be held twice a month, it
it was the order in the first organization,
thought the time could be profitably spent.
Spoke of the liberality of the people in
donating to the poor, and made other re-
marks pertaining to the Relief Society.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
Doxology. Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne were her Counselors,
E. S. Taylor and H. M. Whitney, Aids—
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, Presi-
dent Zina D. Young and President Angus
M. Cannon. Opened with singing, “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee,” etc. Minutes of
previous afternoon read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young addressed the
Conference, said she was happy to see so
many present, the more there were the
greater strength we would have. Spoke of
the work being done in the Temple, and
the holy influence that existed there. Gave
instructions in regard to holding Relief
Society meetings, said business and other
meetings should be separate.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made remarks,
giving good counsel to Presidents of the Re-
lief Society. They should be alive to their
duties, and should instruct members in re-
gard to theirs. Said when each Relief
Society was reorganized, they should
send for the Stake Officers as a matter of
courtesy; was pleased and surprised at the
donations that had been received, thought
the Lord had blessed the efforts of the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Whitney said it
had been sometime since she had the
pleasure of meeting us, she had been weak
but the Lord had strengthened her. Spoke
of the necessity of meeting together often
to partake of the bread of life, and bore a
faithful testimony of God’s goodness to her.
	Dr. E. B. Furgeson addressed the meeting
on the subject of Home Industry, spoke of
a Home Industry Association that was to
be organized, the object of which was to
devise means to care for the destitute this
coming winter, and to furnish work for
women as a great many would need em-
ployment. The membership fee would be
twenty-five cents. Pointed out the benefits
that would be derived from the movement,
and urged those present to take an interest
in the same. President Angus M. Cannon
felt gratified with what he had heard. It
had brought to his mind the first organiza-
tion, which was then called a Benevolent
Society, and related some pleasing incidents
of the same, said Emma Smith was the
first who held the dignity of President, and
spoke of her as being a high-minded noble
woman, and said she never made the af-
fidavits attributed to her. The name of the
organization was changed to Relief Society
at her request. Spoke of the Prophet
Joseph giving the first donation of $5.00
Spoke at some length on the proper or-
ganization of the Relief Society, gave good
advice to the sisters, and hoped they would
prove efficient workers. President M. I.
Horne felt to thank Brother Cannon for
his words of counsel and instruction.
Urged the sisters to take the EXPONENT, it
was the only woman’s paper and should be
sustained; made other closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
Benediction by President Angus M.
Cannon.
ELLA W. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]			
			WAYNE STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
in the Thurber Meeting House, May 28th,
our Stake President W. E. Robinson and
Counselor Bastain and other Brethren were
present. President Jane S. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice in
the day of Salvation.” Prayer offered by
Counselor G. Bastian. Singing, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Minutes of last conference read and ap-
proved. President J. S. Coleman said she
was pleased to meet in conference and to
see so many present, prayed the spirit of
the Lord to rest on the speakers; expected
the representatives of the local branches of
the Relief Society to give reports; that it
would also be a fitting time for mothers to
advance ideas pertaining to rearing our
children in faith and good works. The
branches of Relief Society were represented,
Loa, by Counselor Elizabeth C. Jeffrey;
Thurber, President Sarah Meeks; Caneville,
President Eliza Rust; Blue Valley, Presi-
dent Mary Ann Lords; Eldrich, President
Theresa Coombs; all were reported in good
condition. The Lectures on Faith were the
leading subjects in their testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke of the
changes that are taking place, the trials of
raising a family, felt the Lord would be
merciful towards us if we strive to do our
duty towards our children, felt to sustain
the Priesthood, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Tisbah Hanks said, during con-
ference she had enjoyed a spiritual feast,
spoke on the training of children and the
gifts of the Gospel.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke upon the
privileges the young people enjoy and of
their Improvement Associations. Gave good
counsel to young mothers, said it was their
privilege to enjoy the revelations of God to
direct them in raising their families if they
seek after it.
	Sister Sarah A. Robinson spoke upon the
duties of the wife and mother in the ab-
sence of the husband in governing the
family and having the children take part in
family devotion.
	Counselor G. Bastain said he had listened
with pleasure to the reports and the good
subjects spoken upon; spoke appreciatively
of the labors of the Relief Society, referred
to his misson in Scandanavia where there
was a branch of the Church with only two
Brethren and the rest were Sisters, how
diligent they were in good works, the sub-
ject of economy was treated upon in good
style.
	Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Benediction by Elder. T. R.
Forsythe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a Prophet.” Prayer
offered by Bishop William Meeks. “Sing-
ing, “Do what is right.” 
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the instruction give at the April Relief
Society General Conference. The care of
our children, economy, silk culture, and
other subjects.
	Freemont Relief Society, reported by
President Louisa J. Taylor; Wilmoth,
Counselor Maria Jakeman; Teasdale,
President Mary E. Adams; Grover, Coun-
selor Ellen Stewart. The reports were
good, they also made the Lectures on Faith
a study.
	Sister Viola Brinkerhoff said we should

[Column 2]
raise our daughters to make good wives and
mothers, and be satisfied with their lot in
life, and to clothe and care for our children
that they may grow up healthy and strong.
Sisters Sarah Durphy, Albina Young, Eliza
Brinkerhoff, Mary Bullard all spoke, bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel
and made instructive remarks. President
J.S. Coleman felt the time had been well
spent, “we must all try to put in practice
what we have heard, it is the practical part
that counts for good or ill, let us show in
our lives that we are not only hearers of
the word but doers of it also.”
	President W. E. Robinson said the Relief
Society was a great support in the wards,
felt to sustain and encourage the sisters in
their labor of love, the teaching of the
faithful mother was felt for good the in-
fluence of the wife with the husband was
greater than we can comprehend; prayed
the blessing of God to rest on the Relief
Society that it may be prospered and be a
power for good among the people. Singing
“How firm a foundation.” Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersly.
				ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


OBITUARY.

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, April 24, 1894, in Salt Lake City Utah,
at the residence of her daughter Mrs. Annette
Katz, Ann Keat Player, at the ripe age of eighty-
four.
	Deceased was born in Bristol, England, February
22nd, 1810, and was the daughter of John Keat
and Elizabeth Kirby. She was baptized and con-
firmed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1853, by Elders John Lewis
and Dan Jones, while on a visit to her brother in
Cardiff, Wales.
	She, with her husband and children, left her
home in the spring of 1856 to come to the valley,
on their arrival at Omaha, her husband decided
not to go any farther that year, and by the advice
of the Elders, she sent her two eldest daughters
on before, in charge of Elder Chauncy Webb, to
whom she said when placing them in his care,
“I trust them with you, as I would with my
Heavenly Father” and although their father was
fearful of never seeing them again, the mother
had perfect faith and confidence, that she would
meet them again, when she should come to Utah,
which she did in 1858.
	When they first came to Utah they went to
Cottonwood Ward to live, where they were
neighbors of the late Sister Elizabeth Howard
for two years. From Cottonwood they moved to
Southern Utah, and lived in different places for
awhile, finally settling in Scipio, Millard Co.
	About the year 1873 Sister Player came to Salt
Lake City and purchased a home in the nine-
teenth ward where she resided until she died.
	She was for many years a teacher in the Sab-
bath School of that ward, and the Relief Society;
on the second of November 1877, she was set
apart to act as second Counselor to President
Rachel Whipple in the Relief Society which of-
fice she faithfully and efficiently filled, until the
ward was divided, when by the division President
Whipple was left in the newly created twenty
second Ward, making it necessary to organize a
new Society in the nineteenth Ward, First Coun-
selor Ann E. Neal being chosen as President,
Sister Player was chosen as first Counselor to her
in the Relief Society in the nineteenth Ward to
which office she was set apart on April 30th, 1890,
and which she filled at the time of her death.
	Sister Player was blessed wonderfully with the
gift of healing, many of her friends testifying of
their speedy restoration to health under her ad-
ministration.
	She was ever kind and charitable to the poor
and the afflicted, firm in her integrity to the Truth,
and passed peacefully away after much suffering
in the hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just. She leaves one son, three daughters,
twenty-one grand-children and twelve great-
grand children, besides a host of friends and fel-
low laborers to mourn her loss.
	Although we mourn her departure from our
midst, we rejoice that she has fought the good
fight, and kept the faith; and although death has


seemingly gained the victory, she will triumph
over death and the grave, which must yield her
up, in the resurrection morn, when the trump
shall sound, and the call go forth saying to the
sleeping dust, Arise!			C.C.R.W.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20 “
2:00 p. m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00 “
4:40 “
6:10 “
†10:10 “

*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

[Column 1]
S H. H. Clark,						D. E. BURLEY
Oliver W. Mink,						GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.
E. Ellery Anderson,		}Receivers.
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
