VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1 and 15, 1894.	No. 3-4.


CONTENTS:

	Susan B. Anthony’s Letter—Susan B. Anthony,
Silk Culture in Shantung. California Women a
Power—Nellie Blessing Eyster. U. W. P. C.
Ella W. Hyde. Admission of Utah. R. S. & P.
A. Reports. Hawaiian Islands—E. D. M. &
Oneida Stake. A Trip Through California—
Julia A. Anderson. Notes of W. S. A. Willard.
Obituary—E. H. Josephine Streeper Chase—S.
W. Richards.
	EDITORIAL:—Utah and Statehood. An Ova-
tion. Countess Wachtmeister. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Life’s Moment—Ninetta Eames.
Meditation—E. B. W. Dying—Etta L. Gilchrist.
A Remembered Exhortation—L. L. Greene
Richards.


LIFE’S MOMENT.

FROM birth till noontime on our separate ways
We went, each knowing naught of each, until
Upon a river’s wall our pathways met,
Where gazing soul bound on the amber flood
That drained the red life of the dying sun,
We paused to breathe the vastness of the scene.
Far off the city’s spires shot silver points
Above the purpling shadows of the hills;
Behind us rose the forest dark and dumb
Beneath night’s sable mantle. On the west,
Across a jasper sea, a new moon’s shadowy sail
Dipped lightly to the breath of languorous winds.
The sun’s last brand broke into starry lights
Of such unearthly radiance that my soul
Forgot its clay and stood alone with God.
Trembling you touched my hand, and drew my
eyes
To meet your own, and lo! the crowding years
Rolled backward like a scroll;—and stood revealed
The blessed visions of the long ago.
Come all too late for you and me to share.
	“The river knows its bounds. Forever on
	Between its mighty walls it seeks the sea.
	Within the deep-cut channels of our lives
	The same resistless force bears us along
	Our devious ways! The end is near!
	We, too, shall find the sea.”
The light went out
And in the dark our hands unloosed their clasp.
NINETTA EAMES.


[Column 1]
SUSAN B. ANTHONY'S LETTER.

Rochester, New York
July 21, 1894.
To the officers and members of the Woman
	Suffrage Association of Utah:
	My Dear Friends—I am delighted that
you are now to be in the Union of States,
as you have been for many years in the
union of the dear old National Woman Suf-
frage Association! On behalf of the forty-
three states and the District of Columbia
that compose our union, I congratulate you
not only because Utah is to be a state, but
because I hope and trust that her men, in
Constitutional Convention assembled, will,
like the noble men of Wyoming, ordain
political equality to her women. And I am
sure that you, my dear sisters, who have
not only tasted the sweets of liberty, but
also the bitterness, the humiliation of the
loss of the blessed symbol, will not allow
the organic law of your state to be framed
on the barbarism that makes women the
political slaves of men.
	Now in the formative period of your con-
stitution is the time to establish justice and
equality to all the people. That adjective
"male" once admitted into your organic
law, will remain there. Don't be cajoled
into believing otherwise! Look how the
women of New York have toiled and toiled
over forty years to get "male" out of our
constitution. Fifty thousand petitions and
appeals poured into the constitutional con-
vention of 1867, and we were sent away
empty-handed; and now over half a million
of the men and women of the state have
prayed this constitutional convention and
its suffrage committee reports 13 to 4 against
granting our prayer. And we can hardly
expect the 170 members to do much better
than the seventeen appointed by their
president to consider and report upon the
question.
	No, no! Don't be deluded by any
specious reasoning, but demand justice now.
Once ignored in your constitution—you’ll
be as powerless to secure recognition as are
we in the older states. And more, the men
of your convention should not allow the

[Column 2]
question to be separately voted upon, either.
But the suffrage clause should read, "Every
citizen of the age of 21," etc. I do feel
very, very anxious lest the enemies of equal
rights to women will be too powerful, but
I shall hope that truth and justice will pre-
vail and that Utah will present her state
constitution with political equality to wo-
men established beyond the power of re-
peal.
	I shall hardly be glad to have another
state come into the union with women dis-
franchised. I do not forget that Colorado
men did vote "male" out of their state
constitution, but that is the first and only
state, and I fear may continue to be, for in
no other state is there likely to be such a
favorable combination of incidents to help
secure the good result. Even Kansas may
be lost from lack of favorable conditions.
The Republican state constitution going
back on its party record and ignoring this
amendment—that is saying that silence on
the question was to be the plan of the
party's fall campaign—estops the great
educational work in one half of the political
meetings of the state, in which lay my
chief hope of carrying the amendment, or
rather one half of my hope; for now it will
be discussed only in the other half of the
political meetings—the Populist, instead of
in all the meetings of both of the great
parties of the state, as we had so earnestly
hoped, yes expected.
	But whatever comes to New York and
Kansas in our mighty struggle this fall, I
trust the women of Utah will never be
compelled to go through such a powerful
ordeal.
	With best love to each and all of you—
and best hope for your statehood—I am
very sincerely yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


MEDITATION.

MY soul hath gone forth in its wandering,
To the hills that are purple with light;
Those temples that tower everlasting,
In their majesty, grandeur and might.
And I list to the voices eternal.
That have sung thro’ the ages of time,
And I bask in the visions supernal,
That uplift me to regions sublime.

In the solitude, grand and imposing,
In the vastness of infinite space,
Are new mysteries ever unfolding,
Our wisdom is powerless to trace;
But I gaze with a fond admiration,
On the heavens, the earth and the sea.
'Till I’m lost in intense contemplation,
Of the beauteous life yet to be.

And a spirit within me is whispering,
Of the past with its wonderful scenes;
And around me such fancies are clustering,
As one seeth in visions and dreams.


And I see not alone the majestic,
	Which the beauties of nature unfold,
But I float in the realms of the mystic, 
	Of which poets and sages have told.

And in songs and in language entrancing,
	Like echoes from myriads of spheres,
Soft the footsteps of time are advancing,
	With a melody old as the years.
And the few who interpret the meaning,
	Of the music, so wondrously sweet,
(With the heights, and the depths intervening,)
	Feel the pulse of the universe beat.

And forever, and ever unfailing,
	Is the wealth of that infinite love.
Through all life, and all being pervading,
	Which proceeds from Our Father above. 
But the life-giving means is the marvel
	The mystery, past knowledge and skill,
No man can the secret unravel,
	It abideth in God, at His will.
								E. B. W.


SILK CULTURE IN SHANTUNG.

	A VERY important industry of the
province [Shantung] is the rearing of silk-
worms and the manufacture of silk. Silk
is divided into two kinds, the produce,
respectively, of the worm fed on oak leaves
and that fed on mulberry leaves.  The oak-
leaf silk is by far the most important to the 
province, although it is of an inferior 
quality, as, owing to the comparative ease
with which the worm is reared, it is pro-
duced in great quantities.  The cocoon is
kept in the house during the winter, the
moth appearing when warm weather comes.
By the time the worm is hatched the oak 
leaves are generally out, and it is at once
transferred to the trees, when beyond slight
protection from birds, it practically needs no
further care until the cocoons are ready.
Should the oak leaves be backward, pending
their appearance the worm is fed indoors on
other leaves.  The trees must be at least 
eight years old for the worms to produce
good silk.  The cocoons collected from an
acre of healthy trees should yield 3 or 4
catties* of silk.  The first crop of cocoons
is mostly allowed to hatch for the produc-
* 1 catty—1.333 pounds avoirdupois.


[Column 1]
tion of an autumn crop, the latter silk be-
ing better in color and stronger. The silk,
pale brown in color, is reeled and woven by
hand labor, the usual size of the pieces be-
ing about 20 yards by 20 inches; a piece
weighs 2 catties, more or less, according to
quality, the exact weight being recorded
on the edge, as, if above 2 taels* in value
it is sold by weight.
	Of late years the material manufactured
for the foreign markets has improved greatly
in both reeled and woven silk. The great
improvement in the reeled state is that the
hanks are less than one half the circumfer-
ence they were ten years ago, which is a
matter of importance, as according to the
size of the hank the framework from which
it is woven must be larger or smaller; con-
sequently the long hanks are often refused
in the European markets, as they require
too great a space in the factory. During
the last two or three years some workers
have taken great pains in reeling to keep
the silk clean and of an even thickness
while they have contrived to introduce a
twist in imitation of the “filanda” manu-
facture. The silk has commanded a far
better price than the ordinary article, and
will probably increase yearly, especially as
silk of any quality commands far more per
picul† if sold in large lots than when sold
in small parcels, for in the foreign factories
each alteration in quality necessitates a new
arrangement of the machinery.
	The weaving of the silk for foreign con-
sumption has improved, any width that
may be in demand being now undertaken,
instead of the formerly uniform width of 20
inches. Wide pieces command a better
price per catty, according to the width.
Fancy patterns are also undertaken. Little
improvement has taken place in the dyeing,
and only inferior qualities or spoilt pieces
are dyed, as the different threads take the
dye in varying shades.
	Of late the demand from abroad for the
commoner pongees has been far in excess of
the supply, the smallness of which is pos-
sibly accounted for by the fact that coarse
pongees are worn a good deal by the
Chinese middle classes, as they cost little
more than imported cottons and are far
more durable, while they wash equally
well; in fact, all Shantung pongee is
washed before coming into the market, be-
ing made very dirty in weaving. In all
qualities of the woven articles it is calcu-
lated that the raw material represents about
half the value of the piece, labor and trans-
port making up the balance. The yellow
silk, though yielding a much better price,
is not produced to anything like the same
extent, as it entails much greater labor.
The worm has to be kept in the house, and
mulberry leaves provided for it daily. The
mulberry trees are sometimes planted in
fields, an acre supporting from ten to twenty,
according to the soil, but the more frequent
position for them is on the edge of terraces,
the corners of yards, or any spot which
can not otherwise be used. The tree
should be 10 years old for the worms to
produce good silk, and such a tree should
yield 20 to 30 catties of leaves a year.
	Twenty catties of leaves produce one
catty of cocoons, which yield about one-
tenth of a catty of silk, the quality varying
according to the richness of the leaves.
The market price of leaves is ordinarily
about 10 cash per catty. The common
practice in Shantung is to plant mulberry
	*1 tael—$1.20 United States gold. †1 picul—
	133⅓ pounds.

[Column 2]
seedlings in masses in the corners of fields
and to repeatedly cut them down; by this
means a large number of young shoots are
produced, which bud early in the spring,
and these tender leaves are used to feed the
young worms when first hatched, the leaves
on the big trees being ready for them when
they are older. The silk is far inferior to
that produced in Kiangsu and Chekiang,
by reason, it is said, of the mulberry trees
being grown in Shantung from slips in-
stead of by grafting, as in the other provin-
ces, the produce of a graft being a much
thicker and richer leaf. This silk is used
almost entirely, for making silk thread; it is
reeled here by hand, and exported in that
state. A considerable quanity goes overland
to Peking.—From the Shanghai Mercury.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CALIFORNIA WOMEN A  POWER.

	A SUCCESSION of Congresses auxiliary to
the Midwinter Fair held in San Francisco,
has shown, as nothing else could, the in-
tellectual strength of the women of Cali-
fornia. They rallied from every point of
the compass. Their voices were heard with
“no uncertain sound” in the Religious,
Woman’s Suffrage, Temperance, Christian
Science, and Equal Rights Congresses. The
themes discussed and papers read ranged
through the educational, moral, religious
and political world. The scenes at Chicago
have been repeated. Mind has asserted its
supremacy.
	Some of the best thinkers and most logical
of women have come into California, and
are becoming a power. I think there is
not a “stupid woman” in the State. Some
are eminently “clever” in the sense which,
among English folk, denotes intellectual
strength and ability to express it. At this
writing, the State Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Equal Rights League of San
Francisco are in Convention in Union
Square Hall. The object is to consider
woman’s enfranchisement in its relation to
the present and future political condition of 
the country, and to arouse a more general
interest in this popular topic of the day.
Great enthusiasm prevails. The hall is
beautifully decorated with flags and flowers.
A significant picture upon the platform tells
the whole story of what incites our ardor
in this righteous cause. It represents a
group, of which the face of an intelligent
American woman is the central one, sur-
rounded by those of an Indian, a lunatic, a
convict and an idiot. Under the whole is
the legend, “The American Woman and
Her Political Peers.” In the rear of this
suggestive picture hang portraits of George
and Martha Washington, Abraham Lincoln,
Susan B. Anthony, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton.
	Laura de Force Gordon, than whom none
is more forceful in argument, eloquent in
delivery, earnest in conviction, and cour-
ageous in expression, presides over the con-
vention. The leading dailies give faithful
reports of every occurrence, the themes dis-
cussed are re-discussed in many homes, and
the leaven of truth is working.
		NELLIE BLESSING EYSTER.


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the Office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, July 31st,
1894, President Shipp in the chair. Pray-
er was offered by Eliza Bennion. Roll
called and responded to with sentiments
from Shakespere. Mesdames W. B. Law-


ler, Isabella Brown, Emma Holling and 
Laura Hyde were admitted members of the 
club. C. C. R. Wells reminded the ladies of
the delinquency in the matter of fees: Also 
said it was desired that the members wear 
their club badges at the meetings. Lizzie
Shipp and Miss Hillstead favored the club
with a duet. Dr. E. B. Ferguson sug-
gested that Current Topics be taken up and
discussed at the next meeting. Laura W. 
Hyde gave a recitation, Dr. Ferguson gave 
an interesting talk on Theosophy followed
by Phebe C. Young. The subject was 
discussed by members. The following pro-
gram was read for the next meeting. An
Article by Nellie C. Taylor, a recitation by 
Ellis Shipp. A paper on "Heredity," by
Dr. Ferguson. Music by Maude Pratt.
"Current Events," Ada Patterson. An 
article on Pen Women, by E. B. Wells and 
quotations from Bryant by the members. 
Meeting adjourned until Aug. 31st. Bene-
diction by Minnie J. Snow. After which 
refreshments were served and the usual 
pleasant chat followed.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.


MEMORIAL DAY for the late Sister Han-
nah T. King, poet and author, was observed
on July 30 ult. at the residence of Mrs.
John Alford, who had made special pre-
parations for the occasion and sent out cards
of invitation for 4 p. m. A most delicious
repast was served in the happiest style.
At each plate was a handsome double card
tied with lavender ribbon, each one con-
tained a verse from the Psalms of which
Sister King was so fond. The table and 
the parlors, in fact were artistically decor- 
ated with flowers and vines, and gave the
rooms a charming appearance. After din-
ner the ladies each paid a beautiful tribute
to the gifted, departed friend. Sister Rich-
ards had composed a few verses for the oc-
casion which were read and are published
on another page. The guests were Mes-
dames Horne, Kimball, Spencer, Smith,
Grieves, Howe, Woodmansee, Brockbank,
McFarlane, Richards and Wells.


ADMISSION OF UTAH.
	THE following editorial article is from
Louis E. Granger, Junior, great grandson
of Brigham Young, assistant editor of the
Englewood Times, New Jersey. It speaks
for itself and needs no comment. 
	“Another star is to be added to our flag by
the admission of Utah as a State. Utah,
for all that has been said by people with
mistaken ideas has a record of industry,
unequalled by any other state in the union.
From dry desert wastes, to fertile farms, it
has been changed by the industry of the
Mormons in the space of but 47 years. The
fact that Utah has at last been admitted
has caused much rejoicing among the peo-
ple as they have plead for it in vain for so
many years. With polygamy done away
with, the government and church statistics
show an increase in the membership of the
Mormon Church, contrary to the mistaken
ideas of the people in the East. The Mor-
mon women taken as a whole, are staunch
“Woman Suffragists,”' and a glance at the
book “Representative Women of Utah”
will surprise some of our people  here.
Opinions formed in the minds of some peo-
ple are hard to change, but people are be-
ginning to realize the fact that Utah and
the Mormons, have been greatly mis-
represented.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DYING.

WITHOUT the sun shines on the snow;
The hills are luminous in its glow
All nature’s bright:
Yet here within this darkened room
There hangs a shadowy pall of gloom
That dims the light.
It chills the couch where I am lying
For oh, they tell me I am dying!

And all my loved ones I must leave,
I wonder if for me they’ll grieve
Or will they weep,
When stands by me the spectre, Death
And steals from me each labored breath,
Ere that long sleep.
Shall my sweet babes for me be crying?
Oh, can it be that I am dying!

My hands lie heavily by my side,
I could not raise me if I tried,
Nor can I try.
Could I but look into the skies
Through thickening mists before my eyes
Before I die,
And know toward what unknown I’m hieing
I would not shrink though I am dying.

'Tis but a few short happy years,
Since youth with all its hopes and fears
Was in my grasp.
My life has only reached its noon,
Why should Death take me there so soon
Within his clasp?
My hopes and fears no longer vieing,
I fear alas, that I am dying!

I still can hear my heart’s dull beat
And reason yet hath kept her seat
Through all this pain,
O, could I live a few weeks more
The past with all its griefs live o’er
And pleasures vain!
My breath is clogged! Tis labored—sighing
Now—now I feel—I’m dying—dying.
ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


A REMEMBERED EXHORTATION.

"Hold up your heads! My Sisters! Speak!
And sing! That you may be heard!
Watch the swelling throat and open beak
Of the joyous little bird.”

He uses the powers God gives him;
His energy makes him strong;
He pours forth his soul, his Maker is praised,
In his loud, sweet, thrilling song.

So should we do in our labors all,
If we write, or sing, or speak,
We should honor the power that giveth
strength;
And not be timid and weak.

God bless you, my sisters! My heart is full,
With a love that cannot be told;
Each one of your forms, in tender embrace,
My arms would gladly enfold!

Let us wake and ’rise, that our light may shine,
Not passively sit content;
For great is the work and mighty the cause
Of truth which we represent.

God help you to use all the graces and gifts
Which in love He hath given to you;
To glorify Him, to be valiant and firm,
In His cause, which we know is true!

Early this morn, when first I awoke,
These lines I hastily pen'd,
Putting in verse a remembered address,
Of our dear, departed friend.

I have had no time for revision since;
But have questioned, shall I intrude,


Upon a refined and cultured group,
An effort which seems so crude?
But—happy memory! Sister King 
Loved best, thought as it flowed,
Fresh and free, not polished up, 
With after care bestowed.
So I submit it, with the hope,
That we, when we speak or sing,
May put in force the stirring exhort,
Of Hannah Tapfield King. 
L. L. Greene Richards.
S. L. C. Utah, Monday July 30, 1894.


ADVANCEMENT.
The ladies who have recently graduated
from Doctor Ellis R. Shipp’s School of
Obstetrics are Mrs. Matilda Swenson, Har-
risville Weber Co. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hamlin, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Leona
Benson, Alpine, Utah Co. Mrs. Marina
Hansen, Riverton, Utah. Mrs. Eliza
Smith, Pleasant Green, Salt Lake Co.
Mrs. Mary Midgley, Wales, Sanpete Co.,
and Mrs Sarah Vance of Mesa City,
Arizona.  
These ladies have shown marked
integrity in their studies, received
certificates of proficiency and we believe go
forth to extended spheres of usefulness, and
will in their respective localities fill along
felt want. The words of encouragment
and blessing given them by inspiration,
will surely act as a stimulus and powerful
incentive to energetic effort, in their labors
among the sick and suffering—ministering
as they will both to the bodies and the
minds of their patients. Truly their mis-
sion is one of the most grand and noble!
One filled with daily and homely self-sacri-
fice, one to call into action the better part
of their natures, their stern energies, and
their soft and tender emotions.
To all well-balanced minds, woman is
particularly adapted, fitted, and is it too
much to say, fore-ordained to the Sacred
calling of nurse and accoucheur.
If any member of a family is sick who
does the nursing? "Whose gentle hand
soothes the aching, tossing head? Who
binds up the cuts and scratches, or per-
chance the more serious wounds and
bruises? Who keeps nightly, sleepless
vigil over the couch of the dying one.
With the first sensation of pain the child
instinctively calls the name of “mother"
even when the senses are partially be-
numbed with Aneisthetics, when in
hospitals and far removed from home,
have we heard children, and even stalwart
men, call the sacred name of mother.
Then let us ask, who should study and
inform themselves most thoroughly upon
the intricate principles of medicine, and
the more simple and natural laws of nurs-
ing, if not woman? Instead of leaving
this profession to men alone, we maintain
that special branches should be studied and
practiced solely by women; Let her tender
care be for her own sex and the little ones,
for such are the instincts of nature and the
design of Heaven.
This knowledge should be a component
part of every woman’s education. Let the
minds of our daughters be cultivated and
adorned with all the beauties of art, music
and literature, but let domestic science with
the care and nursing of th sick, become
an essential, aye an indispensable part of
their accomplishments.           H


ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.
Woman's Exponent:
Although we have not been heard from
for some time, we trust it has not been
thought we were sleeping, for we have
never ceased working and hope we are
apace with our sister settlements similarly
situated.
The 24 of July was “old folks" day for
all the aged fathers and mothers of Iron
Co, all being invited to partake of dinner
at 3 a. m. in the basement of the Parowan
meeting house; the Relief Society of this
ward prepared the dinner and it was truly a
credit to them as far as quality and quantity,
there being sufficient to have supplied as
many more after the two hundred had
regaled themselves.
August fourth the Primary Association
held conference, and it was a real pleasure
to see the way the little ones acquitted
themselves, although as usual the girls
surpassed their brothers in every way, this
is a noticeable fact wherever we go, and I
just believe I have discovered a remedy, if
the fathers would only interest themselves
in this very important association and not
rely too much upon the already over
burdened mothers to control these minia-
ture lords of creation, but see for themselves
that the small boys went to their meetings,
talk to the little fellows after Primary about
what had been done there, go with them at
least once each year, be just as earnest and
particular as with any other requirement
made of us, I believe we would soon find a
reformation amongst the boys of the Pri-
mary. The first and all essential stepping
stone to the higher organizations that pre-
pare our sons and daughters to become
priests and priestesses of the living God.
August fifth the Relief Society Confer-
ence convened, a quiet peaceful influence
reigned as is usual at all the sisters meet-
ings, very favorable reports were given
from the different wards, the subjects
touched upon were the storing of grain,
silk culture, training of children, and many
other duties, making an interesting and
enjoyable time.
We are located distantly from the gener-
al board, visits from the presiding officers
are therefore seldom, but we would receive
instructions most gladly at any time.
E. Crane Watson, Cor. Sec.
Parowan, Iron Co. Aug. 6, 1894.


TEASDALE WAYNE CO.
Dear Sister:—I pen a few lines to you,
hoping they may prove acceptable. Al-
though we are so far away from your
beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yet
we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings, and are trying to do our duty and ad-
here to the counsel given to us, in storing
up grain, and studying the Lectures on
Faith and storing our minds with good and
useful knowledge, and trying to live as be-
comes Latter-day Saints and mothers in
Israel. I am pleased to say we are a
united little baud of sisters here in Teas-
dale, and may we ever prove faithful to the
good cause we are engaged in, that when
we have finished our labors here on earth,
we may be able to meet our Lord and
Savior, is the earnest desire of your sister
in the everlasting covenant,
Mary E. Adams.
President Teasdale Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

Salt Lake City, August 1 and 15, 1894.


UTAH AND STATEHOOD.
Utah is on the verge of statehood, at
last after years of intercession, and with
every condition in her favor during many
long years of waiting, behold the tide has
turned and the Chief Executive of the
Republic has signed the enabling act
passed by the Congress of the United
States. On the 16th day of July 1894—a
day memorable because of the stroke of a
pen, that will bring greater freedom and
liberty to the people in these mountain
fastnesses and vales. Let all rejoice in the
prospect statehood offers, more especially if
it makes all citizens equal irrespective of
sex. Only a simple act of justice to one
half of the community who are taxed with-
out representation, and who are as justly
entitled to partake of the advantages and
benefits arising from statehood as are their
sons whom they have reared, or their
brothers with whom they have shared the
hardships and toil of building up a com-
munity in a desert land.
	Utah has more resources and brighter
prospects for future greatness than any of
the Territories in the West, these facts are
well known to those who have honestly
investigated the matter. No truer patriots
either men or women can be found than
the people of Utah. No braver, grander
or more thoughtful young men and
women, no wiser, or more lofty-minded
and high-souled veterans than the pioneers
and colonizers, who have made the country
habitable for their children, and those who
have come to dwell within the borders of
fair Utah. History will yet record in
glowing terms the works of these valiant
men and women. But whether that is
done or not their works speak for them and
testify more strongly than the pen can ever
do. Look at Utah as she is today and re-
call the vision of the past when desolate
and barren, without vegetation, sage brush
grease wood and alkali beds met the eyes
of the worn and weary pioneers of 47.
Behold the contrast! Without money but
with industry, energy, and effort almost
superhuman, habitations were reared, or-
chards, and fields were planted, water was
brought from the mountain streams, and
the face of the land was changed, not by
magic, but by the sweat of the brow of the
laboring men. And women too bore their
share of the burdens of daily toil, they
were not found wanting in courage, in in-
dustry, nor in endurance. Young women
who today are grandmothers helped will-
ingly. patiently, with the heaviest bur-
dens and scarcity of food; yet never mur-
mured at their lot, glad to be useful, proud
and happy to lighten the hearts and lessen
the labors of fathers and husbands. Do
they deserve consideration in the new
state? Most assuredly! With equal political
rights.
If the men of Utah do this simple act of
justice knowing as most of them must
know that it is the right and proper thing
to do, having the courage of their con-
victions, the coming generations will look
back with pride upon their record, for the
trend of all education and sentiment is to-
wards political equality, and it is bound to
come, therefore why not Utah be among
the progressive communities where she
should be? And certainly there is not a state
or territory where such a large number of
women own their own homes and farms and
pay their own taxes, and have entered land
in their own names, and have engaged in
business enterprises of various kinds, even
in buying and selling real estate.
	The educational interests of any and all
states naturally are, and necessarily must
be, in the hands of women and the mothers,
and especially in these departments they
shoud have equal opportunity with men
both to say and to do. The destinies
of the nations are influenced by the mothers
we are told, then let them have every
advantage, civil and political to become
qualified for the high and holy callings they
are expected to fill.
	Much of the opposition to suffrage (for
there are no arguments against it) comes
from the attitude of women who have all
the rights they want and are protected; but
if it is better for society, better for a
community that men and women stand
side by side and vote together, then wis-
dom and patriotism demand it, and should,
decide the question.
	The Constitution of Utah should have
no flaws, it should be the best ever framed
by any body of men, and the best men
should be selected as Delegates, men
eminent for their fitness, and as Miss
Anthony says let it be “ the best basis for a
state ever engrossed on parchment! ”


AN OVATION.
	MONDAY evening, July 2nd, was a gala
time indeed for the Young Ladies Associa-
tion of this County. These sisters paid
such a genuine compliment to their Gen-
eral President as is seldom received by any
one, however diligent and faithful or dis-
tinguished they may have been. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor, the honored President,
was entirely unaware of any effort in this
direction, and was consequently almost
overcome with the honors heaped upon her
at the party given to show the love and es-
teem of her friends and co-laborers, and
their generous appreciation of her
magnificent work for the Associations over
which she has presided the last fourteen
years.
	The Fourteenth Ward Hall, was beauti-
fully decorated with flowers and blossom-
ing plants and the place was filled with
Sister Taylor’s, friends when she came in,
almost bewildered with the dazzling beauty
of the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the presentation of bouquets of flowers
until the lady was literally embowered in


roses, the fragrance filling the hall; and
then came the crowning effort in the way
of demonstration, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in
behalf of the Young Ladies in a graceful
and happy speech presented the President
with a handsome Album home-made with
gold clasp and silver engraving, in which
was inscribed the sentiments and addresses
that had been given by these noble
champions of the cause in which they are
all mutually interested.
	Mrs. Taylor responded graciously but
with much embarrassment, as she was com-
pletely overcome with the ovation tendered
her.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon was then an-
nounced as master of ceremonies, and toasts
and responses were indulged in by both
gentlemen and ladies, some sentimental and
some humorous, all appreciative of the one
whom they had assembled to honor.
	A poem by Sister Woodmansee which
was given in July 15th ult. was read by her
daughter Miss Gladys Woodmansee.
	Refreshments and congratulations were
next in order and the party closed with a
benediction. The general feeling was that
the young ladies had carried off the palm,
and outdone all previous efforts in this
direction. It is good for those who labor
so earnestly and untiringly to feel their
work is appreciated, and certainly Sister
Taylor must, after this public demonstration
and magnificent ovation, feel that she has
won the love, confidence and esteem of her
co-workers. It was indeed a beautiful and
fitting testimonial.


COUNTESS WACHTMEISTER.
One of the celebrities who has lately
visited this City was the Countess
Wachtmeister, one of the most learned and
accomplished ladies of the present day.
She has a most interesting history and per-
sonally is a charming woman both in ap-
pearance and in conversation, and also upon
the platform.
	Her full name is Constance Georgine
Louise de Boushel de Montjoncon. Her
parents were the Marquis de Boushel in the
French diplomatic service, and Constance
Bulkley, to whom she was born March, 28,
1838, at Florence, Italy. The Boushel
family is one of the most ancient in France
originating from the southeast of France
they settled in Normandy about the year
936. A. D. and have thus a long line of
ancestors, distinguished in French history
especially one, Rauel de Boushel who
lived in the reign of Louis XIV. Con-
stance de Boushel, having lost her parents
at an early age, was sent to her aunt Mrs.
Bulkley of London Hill, Berkshire England
where she was educated and lived until her
marriage in 1863, with her cousin Count
Wachtmeister, then Swedish and Norwegian
minister at the Court of St. James.
	She resided there three years, when her
husband was called to Copenhagen as
minister to the Danish Court, and then
after two years the Count being made Min-
ster of Foreign Affairs, they took up their
abode at the official residence in Stockholm.
The Countess was then created “state lady
of the land” by the king, and was the last
to receive this distinction as the title has be-
come extinct. The Countess has one son
Count Axel Wachtmeister who was born in
1865.
	The Countess is an ardent exponent of
Theosophy and is giving her life and her


entire time to this occult science or power.
She lived on the continent in Germany and
other countries some years with Madame
H.P. Blavatsky while she was writing the
‘‘Secret Doctrine,” and she has herself
published Reminiscences of Madame
Blavatsky and the Secret Doctrine. She
spent last winter in East India, making a
study of its people, and their strange doc-
trines and customs.
	She lectured in this city several times on
Theosophy and once upon India. As a
lecturer the Countess is very entertaining,
her voice is singularly pleasing, and her
manner quiet and prepossessing. She is now
in the East but will sail from New York in
the Autumn and expects Annie Bessant to
join her in England, the latter having been
in Australia. These two ladies will go to-
gether to India where they will remain dur-
ing the coming winter.
	Judging from conversations with the
Countess one would infer that she was great-
ly attached to her home in Sweden, but she
seems very zealous in theosophical work
and expects to devote herself exclusively
to promulgating its principles and advanc-
ing its interests.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Wednesday evening, August 8th, a
few ladies met at the parlors of Dr. R. B.
Pratt, in honor of her birthday anniversary;
many expressions of love and esteem
mingled with congratulations, were paid
her, and she was also congratulated upon
her courage, perseverance and success in
the medical profession; she having been
the first medical woman graduate from the
Territory. Doctor E. S. Barney a very
dear old friend of Dr. Pratt’s read a written
tribute which was very complimentary and
also prophetic. Many beautiful flowers
were presented, and a handsome volume of
Jean Ingelow’s Poems from the ladies of the
party. Mrs. Pratt’s mother was present
and shared in the congratulations, a won-
derfully well-preserved woman in her
eightieth year. Mrs. P. P. Pratt, Junior,
favored the company with some exquisite
piano music, choice and difficult selections
finely rendered. Mrs. Lizzie Shipp sang,
“The Bridge” in her sweet plaintive way.
Altogether it was a very pleasant social
affair. It is needless to add the refresh-
ments were plentiful and fully enjoyed by
all.
	MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG President of
the Relief Society returned from Canada on
Thursday August 9th, in excellent health
and spirits after having been absent a little
over six weeks. Mrs. Young reports
everything favorable in the organizations in 
Canada. She attended several meetings
and a conference of the sisters. There are
three branches of the Relief Society in that
locality, also Young Ladies’ Associations
and Primaries and the sisters are enjoying
their labors, and were of course delighted
to have a visit from Sister Young, who
always carries with her a cheerful spirit
and influence, and is greatly reverenced and
beloved by all those with and for whom
she labors, having the interest of Zion at
heart in all her numerous duties and the
responsibilities which devolve upon her.
The sisters here at home will be glad to
know that Sister Young is at home again
and brings good news from relatives and
friends. Brother and Sister W. B. Dougall


made a brief visit to Canada recently com-
ing back at the same time, also W. B. Jun.,
and their daughter Catharine.


R.S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
	HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	THE 7th of April, 1894, was a bright
lovely day upon the sunny Isles of the sea,
and how happy all were to think we were
thus highly favored with good weather
when our little folks were to assemble in
general conference of the islands. It was
indeed a beautiful sight to witness the
“Hope of Israel” bedecked in bright
colored ribbons and wearing gay badges
bearing the inscription “Hui Kamalii,”
(Primary Association.) The girls were in
white with beautiful wreaths of flowers up-
on their heads, and the boys neat, and
respectably clad wore wreaths upon their
hats.
	The divisions were separated by a num-
ber of bright banners and flags bearing ap-
propiate mottoes. The whole in appearance
resembling a portable flower garden out on a
parade, the flowers distilling perfume in the
passing breeze and imparting a delightful
fragrance all around. The services were
called to order by Counselor Maggie
Davis. The children sang “O come
children come,” prayer was offered by
Master Naihe. Singing, “Little children
love each other.” Roll called and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Financial report was read by Sister Davis.
A Letter from President Libbie Noall to the
Association was read by Sister Makanve.
The following programme was then
creditably rendered by the children, evinc-
ing care and study in the preparation
and reflecting praise upon the labors of the
Sisters.
	Bible Sentiment by the Association,
Opening Address, Hattie Kekuku; Song
Greeting, a number of little girls; Dia-
logue, Sam Kii and Richard Kalili; Recita-
tions, Pua and Kepa; Song “A Mormon
Boy,” Hamana Kalili. Manuscript Paper,
“Hope of the youth,” Victoria Nainoa.
Questions and Answers on the “Life of
Christ,” by the Association. Song “Little
drops of water.” Recitation, Iva Kekuku;
Song, “Our Father in Heaven” translated
and sung by a number of little girls;
Recitations by Mauna, Sam Kii, and Rich-
ard. Song, “Beautiful Day of Peace and
rest,” translated and sung by the large
girls. Song, “I’ll be a little Mormon” by
the boys.
	The general officers at home and the
local officers here were then unanimously
sustained. A few encouraging and in-
structive remarks were then made by Elders
Davis and Duffin. A donation was then
given by the parents for the Association to
aid in the instrnction of their children.
The conference was then adjourned for six
months by singing the “Primary March”
and prayer by Wallace Brown.
	The sisters assembled in Relief Society
Conference of the Islands, Counselor Mag-
gie Davis presiding. After the usual
opening exercises the financial and statisti-
cal reports were read showing 468 members
21 branches reported, 7 not reported, num-
ber of meetings held 332, cash receipts for
six months $310.60, disbursed to charitable
purposes $142,75 cash on hand $168.85.
	A letter of instructions and encourag-
ment from President Libbie Noall was read
by Sister Makanoe expressing regret, for
not, being able to be present at the confer-
ence. Reports were heard from the
societies on this and adjacent Islands by
either officers or representatives of the dif-
ferent branches, all bearing good testimonies
to the Gospel and expressing a desire to
perform their part in the work of the Lord
placed upon them. The reports were in-
terspersed with singing and other exercises.
A sketch by Sister Makanoe of the different
societies organized among Hawaiin women
being particularly interesting. Sisters
Davis and Harmon gave good instructions
to the sisters and encouraged each to be
faithful in the performance of their duties.
	General and Local Officers were sus-
tained and with singing and prayer meet-
ing was adjourned for six months.
	Much energetic labor has been performed
among the societies in the different branches,
instructing them in what is required of
both officers and members, referring them
to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet and
to the “Letter of Instructions” issued for
their benefit
	Each society has been visited and some
changes made in officers which we hope
will prove for the better.
	On the 28th of May, a Primary Associ-
ation was organized in the branch of
Honolulu with a membership of about
thirty five bright little children. The of-
ficers are Makanoe, President, Kakoe and
Annie Kauluko Counselors; Keonohe,
Secretary; Kana, Assistant Secretary;
Makanoe, Treasurer.
	Our desires as missionary sisters are to
accomplish much good to our sisters who
have been less favored than ourselves, and
the words of our Savior are verified wherin
He says, that “they that be whole need not a
physician but they that are sick.”
						       E. D. M.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held at Gentile
Valley, June 10th, 1894.
	Our company met at Mink Creek, June
9th, consisting of Sister Adeline Barber
President of the Cache Valley Relief Society,
Sister Elizabeth Fox, President of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, her two counselors
Mary Hawks and D. E. Dudley; Miss
Lillie Dudley and Elder Joshua Hawks of
Franklin. We held a meeting at Mink
Creek at 2 o’clock President Christina
Keller presiding. Bishop Rasmunson and
Counselors were also present. The spirit
of peace was richly enjoyed and called forth
much good instructions from each speaker.
	After the close of tbe meeting we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing over hills and
through hollows on a mountainous road
decked on either side with beautiful
flowers of every hue and color, by green
grass and wild fruit trees hanging full of
fruit just forming into shape crossing run-
ning streams of water which went creeping
under the great trees and bushes hurrying
along to join the river below which swollen
far beyond its usual bounds—covered
meadows and in some places grain. We
reached Thatcher ward just as the sun was
setting, and were kindly received by Bishop
Pond and wife.
	At 10 o’clock Sunday morning we repair-
ed to the meeting house, (which was set
upon a hill with a splendid view of the
valley) and held the morning session of bur.
Conference, President Julia Pond presid-


[Column 1]
ing. After the usual exercises the
minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved.
	President Pond gave an excellent report
of their society. President Hale reported
the Mound Valley ward society. Presi-
dent Fox spoke of the goodness of God to
his chosen people. Said we were organized
into a Relief Society by revelation for our
own good and exhorted the sistess to at-
tend to every known duty; spoke of read-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine 
and Covenants in their meetings and many
other things
	Counselor M. Hawks spoke of the mis-
sion of mothers—their duty to their
children, of her two sons who had just re-
turned from the Islands of the sea after
having performed honorable missions and
learned to speak the two foreign languages,
also spoke of the power of prayer, etc.
	Counselor D. E. Dudly gave timely in-
structions to the secretaries. Said, "Order
is the keystone of organization” and it was
necessary that our records should be writ-
ten correctly with good black ink, every
thing with place and date. Roll to be
called with proper date also all of mem-
bers recorded with date. All members
moving away should be given a recommend
and their removal recorded, so we may be
able to refer to it at any future time and
get any incident that might be needed. If
we are to be judged by the books 
how necessary that our good works should be
recorded, etc.
	President A. Barber spoke of the planting
of mulberries and raising of silk, of pre-
paring for a time of famine and want by
laying by a supply of wheat, needles and
pins &c. and by raising our own cocoons
and making our own thread as we could
very easily if we would commence now.
Spoke of the blessed privileges we can en-
joy of laboring in the Holy Temples for the
redemption of our dead relatives; of the
sweet spirit of peace which pervades the
temple and testified to the goodness of God
towards her during her sojourn here upon
the earth. She had been so greatly blessed
that she had the work done for seven hun-
dred of her dead relatives.
	Elder Joshua Hawks followed with many 
good and appropriate remarks too numerous
to mention. Bishop Pond felt to appreciate
the visit of the sisters and knew what they
had said was the word of the Lord unto 
those who were present.
	After dinner we returned over the river
according to previous arrangement and held
afternoon session at Mound Valley Ward
where we met Bishop Bennett and Counse-
lors and also Brother Bennett’s aged mother.
Bishop Pond and wife Solomon Hale Jun.
and wife and many others accompanied us
to Mound Valley.
	Meeting commenced at 3 o’clock, Presi-
dent Eliza Hale presiding. The singing
by the choir was much enjoyed. All were
united in such a way as to unite the hearts
of all, and the words of comfort and in-
struction flowed from each speaker in an
easy fluent stream. The new meeting
aouse is not finished but is substantially
built of brick and is so near completion
that they can meet comfortably in it while
it is warm. After meeting we partook of a 
bounteous repast at President Eliza Hale’s
and returned to Thatcher Ward and spent a
most enjoyable evening with Bishop Pond
hnd family, in their beautiful home. His 
new house is of modern style of architec-
ture both convenient and handsome.

[Column 2]
We started for Chesterfield Monday
morning at 6 o’clock, the air was cold and
raw and the wind blew continuously into our
faces which made it very disagreeable for
some of the sisters who began to feel weary
as the weather had been cold and frosty
from the first. All of the early crops had
suffered greatly from cold. At Bancroft
we stopped an hour to feed teams and eat a 
lunch. There we saw an immense amount
of wool sacked and piled ready to ship
East to be manufactured into clothing and
this again to be returned to sell to us again,
which is really too bad when we have so
much need of its being manufactured at
home and thereby give employment to the
many who need employment in our midst.
	We reached Chesterfield at 12 o’clock—
held a meeting at 2 o’clock, President Hig-
ginson presiding; after the usual opening
exercises, much good instruction similar to
our previous meeting was given. Bishop
Tollman was glad the sisters had not for-
gotten them and asked the blessings of God
to attend us on our journey. Here they
have a large commodious brick meeting
house well finished and furnished by the
labor of their own hands. The brick was
burned and also the lime by members of 
their ward. The seats were made by local
mechanics. The whole inside surface,
walls included, is artistically painted by a
local member in an original design.
	After partaking of the hospitality of
Bishop Tollman and Sister Call for the
night we started for Dempsie at 8 o’clock
Tuesday morning. The roads were quite
muddy for a while caused by the rain fall of
the previous day. We traveled on briskly
for a couple of hours and came to Dempsie
Creek quite a large stream of water flow-
ing through the land; it furnishes water
for the new farms which have lately been 
taken and the land has but recently been
cut off from the Indian Reservation and
will soon be surveyed and in market. 
Farther on we came to a canyon where the
Portneuff River runs between two high
mountains—roaring and rushing over great
cliffs of Lava rock for miles down the can-
yon, tall pine trees grow so near the dug-
way you could almost put forth your
hand and pluck the cones which cover the
entire surface of some of them.
	These lines were forcibly brought to
mind by beholding them
		Woodman spare that tree
		Touch not a single bough.
	But leave it stand as a monument of
nature in its grandeur planted by Omnipo-
tent hand. Here we beheld for the first
time water that would eventually reach and
help to form the Pacific Ocean.

Praise ye the Lord! All ye moorlands and
	mountains
	Praise him alone all ye ever green hills,
Glory to God! Shout the bright flowing fountains
	Till all the earth with your melody fills.

Woodland and meadow flowers
Bloom of the summer hours
	Bend to the wind with your anthem of praise,
Sprays of the waterfall
Chant ye a coralal
	Here at the feet of the ancient of days.
	We gazed with admiration and wonder
at wild and awful scenery of nature and
tried to imagine how great had been the
power that had upheaved the beds of earth
and rock—could it be possible that we were
gazing at the result of the destruction the
three dark days that our Saviour laid in the
tomb at Jerusalem, and the wicked were

[Column 3]
destroyed on this continent and the face of
nature was so changed, or did this upheav-
ing take place in the days of Peleg, when
the earth was divided.
	We traveled along a dug-way around the
mountain side, far above the river bed,
passed two large canals which were filled
with water to be used by the new settlers
in this vicinity.
After leaving the canyon we came sud-
denly upon Brother and Sister Boice who
were anxiously looking for us and had a 
sumptuous dinner waiting for us; which
we partook of with a relish, enjoying at the
same time a lively chat with old acquaint-
ances.
	At 2 o’clock we repaired to the meeting
house where we met a band of young sis-
ters newly organized in a new land.
President Ida Boice presiding. The Bishop
was not present but Brother Pierce his
counselor was present. The sisters ex-
horted all to be faithful and gave general
instruction concerning Relief Society work.
How to keep the records correctly, to get
them a piece of land while the country is
new so they could make permanent im-
provements and become independent in
this matter. Asked the brethren to be
liberal and assist their wives. Thought it
would be an excellent idea for the sisters to
take a sack in hand after threshing was
done and say to their husbands, "I want
you to pay me for cooking the same as you
have the rest of your hands, and then I
will be prepared to lay up a little wheat and
thereby do my duty as a member of the
Relief Society, and they would not have to
give their husband’s grain but let him have
the privilege of donating all he desires to
do in his own name.”
President Boice gave a good report of the
labors both statistical and financial. They
had a roll of Exponents on the table
which was commendable—showed they
were seeking from the proper source infor-
mation and wisdom. We must not forget
to say we had a nice bundle of salmon
trout presented to us by Sister Fanny Wil-
son which had been caught in the Portneuff
River and which we later enjoyed to the
extent of our ability. At the close of this
meeting we continued our journey ten
miles to Mc. Cammon. At 7.30 we held a
meeting conjointly with Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, Presi-
dent Althea M. Lewis presiding, also
Luella Lish president of the Young Ladies
Association was present. After the usual
opening exercises the young ladies rendered
a programme as follows. A lecture on the
redemption of the dead, a duet, a recitation
and correspondence, all of which was done
in an excellent manner.
	Then much timely instruction and coun-
sel was given by the visiting company.
	Elder Norton bore a strong testimony to
the truth and told incidents of interest of
the early days of Utah. We were all
hospitably entertained for the night by
Brother and Sister Norton.
	This brother, Alanson Norton is one of
Utah's oldest settlers and has passed
through many of the persecutions of the 
early rise of the church. He operated the
first carding factory in Utah—at Mill Creek,
he also set in motion the spinning machine
and power loom in the Sugar House ward
for President Brigham Young. He also
built the woolen factory in Brigham City in
1871, and went East to Massachusetts and
bought the machinery—set it up and put it


[Column 1]
in operation and ran the business until
others learned to operate it.
	At the time he went East to buy the
machinery he carried $7.000 in a belt made
for the purpose, on his person. The money
was entrusted to him by Apostle Lorenzo 
Snow without a receipt or security and also
an order for credit if he should need it; he
is 80 years old, the father of 21 children,
100 grand children and great grand child-
ren; he can read without glasses and do a
man’s work. Seven of his children are
resettled on good homes near him. He is
Presiding Elder of McCammon branch and
is now superintending the building of a
new meeting house.
	We left McCammon Wednesday morning
at 8 o’clock for Garden City, where we met
with the Relief Society at 10 o’clock with a
good representation the local President pre-
siding. This Society was doing well as re-
ported by the President. Similar instruc-
tions were given as at the previous meet-
ings. Bishop Capell testified to the good-
ness of God and appreciated the visit of the
sisters. After dinner we proceeded to
Nine-Mile, and held our eighth meeting at
2’clock, President Coffin presiding. Sister
Coffin was bowed down with grief on ac-
count of the death of her husband which
happened the week before.
	The instructions given were much the
same as had been given at previous meetings
delivered in a spicy manner under the in- 
fluence of the Spirit of God. Their Dis-
trict School was still in session and judging
from the blackboard work left from the
daily exercise they are blest with a com-
petent teacher We were kindly provided
for by the two Sister Coffins for the night.
	On the morning of 14th, we continued
our journey to Clifton and held our ninth 
and final meeting with a house well filled,
President D. E. Dudley presiding. We
felt to appreciate the efforts of their new
choir. Bishop Gayner and his two coun-
selors were present on the stand. President
D. E. Dudley having been called to act as a
counselor in the stake she was released
and Sister Lucy A. Howell was called and
set apart to take her place as president of
the Clifton Relief Society. President A. 
Barker urged all to labor for the redemption
of their dead friends, told them how
to plant mulberry trees and raise silk and
help to be self sustaining. She said she
was not well when she started but she felt
blessed in her labors; although it had been
very cold she believed it had done her
good. Counselor Hawks spoke of the
goodness of God in leading us out of
Babylon and establishing us in the moun-
tains while the judgments of God should
pass over the nations and of the signs of
the times. President Fox spoke in praise
of the Relief Society branches she had
visited and felt to thank the Lord for the
Gospel, and all the blessings attached there-
to, felt to do her duty and exhort every
sister under her jurisdiction to do the same.
She felt that our visit had been appreciated
by the kind reception we had received from
all we had met. She did not think hard
times had found their way up North judg-
ing from the good things that were ever
present where we were entertained. She
felt, to leave a mother’s blessing with all.
Counselor D. E. Dudley gave a humorous
report of our journey in a brief way.
Elder Joshua Hawks continued the report
speaking of the spreading abroad of our
 sons and daughters in this goodly land,
making homes, building canals, meeting

[Column 2]
houses, organizing into wards, Relief Society
Associations according to the plan of the
Gospel, and felt all things were working
on slowly and steadily but surely. Zion is
spreading out her borders, subduing the
desert and the kingdom of God will be
duly established. The little stone cut out
of the mountain without hands was surely
rolling forth and will eventually fill the
whole earth. He felt to bless the young
people and the old, begged of them to be
humble and obedient that they might be
useful in any place they might be called to
act.
	Bishop Garner felt well and thanked all
for their visit and good instruction and en-
couragement. After the closing exercises
preparations were made to go home to
Franklin. We separated, feeling greatly
blessed and instructed by our short mission
during which we had enjoyed so richly the
spirit which enlighteneth the soul of man.
	ELIZABETH FOX, President.
	MARY HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro-tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A TRIP THROUGH CALIFORFIA.

	THE Womans Nat. Press Association left
San Francisco May 8th via Donahue R. R.
by invitation of. Mr. A. W. Foster, Presi-
dent of the Road, and Mr. H. C. Whiting,
General Manager. We were accompanied
Mr. R. Ryan, General Passenger Agent,
he was one of our entertainers during our
trip and to him we owe many thanks for
much of our pleasure.
	After a delightful sail on the Bay we ar-
rived at Tiburon, where a special train was
in waiting to convey us to Cloverdale. We
passed many beautiful fruit farms, lovely
villages and a country whose beauty can-
not be surpassed. Its acres of emerald
green are dotted with the gorgeous wild
flowers known only to California.
	The road is one finely constructed and
equipped with luxurious coaches; one
could easily fancy herself reclining in
an easy chair in her own parlor. The air
was mild and balmy, so much so that the
consumptive who was with us said “her
cough had left her and she felt that if she
could stay in the delightful atmosphere, she
could live forever.”
	At 12:20 p. m. we arrived at Cloverdale, a
pretty town situated among the hills at the
upper end of Russian Valley. On our ar-
rival we were met at the station by Mrs.
and Mr. Monihan, Prop’rs of the United
States Hotel whose guests we were during
our stay before, and after returning from
the Geysers. This hotel is a commodious
brick building and the only first class house
in Cloverdale. We were surprised to find
telephonic communication with the Geysers
eighteen miles distant. We earnestly
recommend this hotel to tourists.
	Cloverdale is particularly desirable for
invalids on account of its equable and
salubrious climate.
	After a refreshing night’s rest we were
awakened by the call “All aboard for the
Geysers.” Six four-horse stages were
waiting to convey us up the mountain side
past the grandest and most beautiful scenery
any of us had ever looked upon. Mr.
Charles Martin Humbert, owner of the
stage line, handled the reins on one of the
stages, and for this occasion, became our
driver as well as host. Stage riding which
heretofore had been a terror to me, proved
in this, case a most delightful means of

[Column 2]
transporation through the mountains where
a glorious vision met our view at every
turn.
	As we drew near our destination we
notice a strong odor of sulphur and catch a
glimpse of a large frame building nestled
in a garden of flowers, shadowed by
majestic trees. Major H. A. Powell, of
San Francisco, owner of the hotel and
geysers, was our host during our stay and
accompanied us through the Geysers, giv-
ing us a complete history of the many
springs and their wonders which are be-
yond description. To Major Powell, our
genial host we owe many thanks.
	After a pleasant journey by stage and
rail we arrive at the Redwoods at 10:30 a
m. After viewing the beauties of the
gigantic trees, which tower hundreds of
feet above our heads and fill us with awe
at the wonders of nature and the goodness
of God—we gather many flowers and ferns
which were as diminutive in size as the
trees are large beyond conception, to any
one who has never seen them.
	At 12 o’clock sharp the signal was given
for all to gather round the banqueting
board. The lunch was furnished us by
the officials of the Donahue road and would
have done credit to Delmonico. Wines
and good things too innumerable to mention
were provided. After doing justice to the
elaborate spread, the W. N. P. A. song was
sung, followed by the grand old hymn
“Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.”
	The setting sun witnessed our return to
Cloverdale en route to Santa Rosa to take
part in the rose festival as the guests of the
city of Santa Rosa.
	The following morning our eyes were
greeted with a view of such floral beauty
as we had never seen before, the grand
staircase of our hotel was one mass of
roses and ferns, each guest found her room
a perfect bower of roses. The elaborate
decoration of the city made it seem like
one grand flower garden—the people had
given themselves up to pleasure and
hospitality.
	At four o’clock, the last day of our visit,
the citizens had brought out their private
carriages for the pleasure of the Press As-
sociation; behind fast horses we were shown
the beauties of the city and surrounding
country.
	Santa Rosa, fifty odd miles from San
Francisco, is the County Seat of Sonoma
County, and is a thriving business place,
has handsome public buildings, beautiful
parks and many fine homes. We predict
that in a few years it will be second to none
in the state. Our guide and interpreter,
Mr. R. A. Thompson, editor of the
“Sonoma Democrat” distinguished him-
self as a princely entertainer.
	After two days at Santa Rosa, the memory
of which will linger with us forever, we
turned our faces homeward, and in a few
hours were again at our hotel in the City of
the Golden Gate.
	Forever will dwell with us the happiness
of those days, and the kind faces of our
new friends will serve as a beacon light to
lure us back again to California.
	JULIA A. ANDERSON.


IF you wear religion as a cloak your soul
may freeze to death.
	Several Woman Suffrage lecturers are
anxious to come here and speak for suffrage
now that Utah is to be admitted into the
union.


179 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES OF W. S. A. WILLARD. 
	MRS. E. B. WELLS and Mrs. M. A.
Freeze by special invitation arrived at
Willard July 26 on the 4:20 train to hold a
W. S. A. meeting. 
	They were met at the depot by some of
the officers and driven to the residence of
the President where lunch was served in
honor of their coming, by the W. S. A.
	After having an enjoyable time all ad-
journed to the tabernacle where a public
meeting was held.
	The ladies were greeted with a very large
interested and appreciative audience, many
gentlemen being present.
	The meeting opened about 8:30 with
President Lottie Hubbard in the chair
Singing, Help the Working Women.
Prayer by Brother T. W. Brewerton, sing-
ing “Woman Arise.” Mrs. M. A. Freeze
was the firet speaker. Said we are all
interested, or should be, in the cause of
suffrage; from our association in these great
organizations, we are privileged to meet
with most educated and refined women of
the world in the Woman’s Congress and
Conventions. Woman did not realize
what a vast field was opening before her
when the prophet Joseph Smith turned
the key for woman in 1842.
	The association sang “Our God shall
lead us on.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced.
She had a great admiration for men but
would like all the political and civil rights
they enjoyed. Showed how the question
of Suffrage was being agitated all over the
United States. In the Woman’s Con-
gress of ’93, the whole trend was towards
equality. Referred to Miss Anthony’s
influence and popularity; gave illustrations
that showed women did not have all the
rights they wanted. Utah is entitled to
more Delegates to attend the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention than any other state
except New York.
	Mrs. Ray Evans of Brigham City gave a
sketch of their labors during the last six
months.
	The lady speakers were tendered a vote
of thanks for their merited efforts. Sing-
ing ‘‘New America.” Benediction Mr.
Homer Call.
	Following are names of officers. Lottie
Hubbard, President; Mary Harding, first
Vice President; Dora S. Dudley, second
Vice President; Ellen Ward, third Vice
President; Stella Cook, Rec. Sec. and
Treasurer; Esther Harding Ass’t. Sec. and
Cor. Sec.; Maria Zundell, Chairman Ex.
Com.; Jennie Hubbard, Nancy Harding,
Emma J. Davis, Maggie Henderson, mem-
bers of Executive Committee, Dora S.
Dudley, Organist; Esther Harding, Ass’t.
Organist.


OBITUARY.

ELIZABETH COON.
	SISTER ELIZABETH COON was the daughter of
William Pernarder Parker Farbrough, and was
born in Calhoun Mont. Co. Tennessee, Dec. 22,
1818. After her marriage with the late Abraham
Coon they moved to Green Co. Illinois, where she
embraced the Gospel in 1839, Elders Parley P.
Pratt and William E. McLellan were the first to
introduce the Gospel to her and to her husband
which they gladly embraced and left their beauti-
ful home in Green Co. and moved to Hancock
Co. Illinois where they shared in the trials of the
great exodus from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters.
Sister Coon drove her own team all the way and
became quite an expert in yoking and unyoking
her cattle. Brother Coon having been made a
Bishop to take charge of some forty families that


were left without husband and father, the men
having gone in the Mormon Battalion. Sister
Coon was often at a loss to know how to assist
her husband, in providing for the destitute but
they never let any one go from their door hungry,
the Lord always opened up the way before them
that they had something to assist the needy.
The family came to Utah in 1850 and settled in the
16th, Ward in this City, where they remained. A
few days before Sister Coon’s death she went to
stay with one of her daughters Sister Rachel
Cooley of Mendon, Cache Co., she had the oppor-
tunity of attending the dedication services in the
Salt Lake Temple which had always been
promised to her to see the Temple completed,
this was the happiest day of her life and she re-
joiced greatly. Sister Coon was a woman of great
faith and sterling integrity and she leaves a name
and memory long and affectionately to be
cherished by her numerous posterity.
	Brother Coon died some years previous leaving
her a widow, but she has gone to join him and no
doubt there was a happy reunion.
	Sister Coon leaves nearly two hundred children
grand children and great-grand children to
mourn her loss. She departed this life after much
suffering, which she bore with great patience and
fortitude, Jan. 15, 1894, at the residence of her
daughter, Sister Frances Hardman, Pleasant
Green, Salt Lake County Utah. "Blessed are
the dead that die in the Lord, yea, they rest from
their labors and their works do follow them.”
	E H.


JOSEPHINE STREEPER CHASE.

	THE funeral obsequies of the late Josephine
Streeper Chase were attended at the family
residence in Centerville, Davis County, July 23,
1894.
	Her death, which occurred on the evening of
the 20th, at her home, was sudden and unexpected.
She was the daughter of William and Matilda
Wells Streeper, born May 6th, 1835, in the city of
Philadelphia. With her parents she removed
from there to Nauvoo in the spring of 1844, the
following year from there to St. Louis, and in the
year 1851 emigrated to Salt Lake City. About
the year 1855 she was married to George A.
Chase, and was the mother of 15 children—5 sons
and 10 daughters, 8 of whom, with 16 grand-
children, survived her.
	In the family circle her radiance of character
was not only superior, but seemed to approach
the sublime. As a wife, mother and teacher
she was adapted to each condition with un-
questioned ability. Her complete devotion to
the duties connected therewith was characterized
with that unselfish love that makes one more than
earthly in the estimation of those who were fav-
ored to share her kindly charities or taste the
sweets of her spiritual life. Her many years of
fervent and successful labors in the Sunday
school was a sphere of more than ordinary use-
fulness to the children of others, who will cherish
a loving remembrance of her through all their
lives. The delicate nature of her physical or-
ganization did not justify entering upon those
more public services in which her influence might
have been felt in a more extended field, but not
for a holier purpose than that which ever charac-
terized her efforts in the cultivation and develop-
ment of the youth of Zion.
	The numerous and earnest testimonies borne
of her on the occasion of her funeral obsequies
should satisfy both family, kindred and friends to
the drying of all tears, the dispelling of all grief,
and the yielding of all hearts to that joy which is
unspeakable, that
	With her the race of life well run
	Has joined her with her kindred throng,
	In mansions for her there prepared,
	With crowns of glory to be shared.
	The great number which attended her funeral,
among whom were Apostles, Presidents and
many prominent influential citizens, indicated the
high esteem in which she was held by all who
had her acquaintance, many of whom ac-
companied her remains to their last resting place,
and said in their hearts, “Rest, rest, to the weary
soul.” S.W. Richards.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
No. 18 Main St, 	- 	Salt Lake City.
[Column 2]
GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:
Leave Salt Lake: 	Arrive Salt Lake: 
*7:45 a. m.			12:40p.m.
10:20“				*4:00“
2:00 p. m.			4:40“
3:00“				6:10“
†6:30"				†l0:10“
*Daily except Sunday. 	†Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening.Fare round trip 50c.
S. H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
Receivers.
D.E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.
G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.
LUBRICATING OILS.
USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.
19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS
DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON’T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But'
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
(---) Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

