
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1894. No. 1.


CONTENTS:

	In Rural England—A Story. A Fireside Talk
With My Sisters—J. P. M. Farnsworth. The Old
Temple Wall—An Old Timer. R. S. Reports
Utah and Bear Lake Stakes. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Florida
Letter—Ella C. Chamberlain. A Golden Wed-
ding—E. S. Goldsbrough. Woman Suffrage
Column.
	EDITORIAL:—Temple Excursion.
	POETRY:—June Roses—Ellen Jakeman. The
Fourth Of July—E. B. W. The Baby.


JUNE ROSES.

TO E. B. W.

I BROUGHT you roses whose lush sweetness holds,
The passionate love, and languid bliss of June,
And ’midst their petals you will find enthralled
The shimmering laces of the waning moon;
Elusive, vague, and subtle as perfume.

Deep in their hearts the sun’s warm kisses glow,
As bright as warp and woof of happy dreams,
And dewy freshness of the air that blows
Across the foaming crystal of our streams,
So light the fragrance of their faint breath
seems.

But you are absent, and such beauty fades,
Time steals it, as it stole your youth and mine,
But all the thorns will be here sharp and thick,
As we still taste the dregs of that bright wine
Whose first full flagon was almost divine.
ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXIX.

	ALTHOUGH Dr. Bland had fully identified
himself with the Puritan people after com-
ing to America he had not connected him-
self with the Church, nor did he altogether
subscribe to the narrowness of some of
their doctrines in detail, though he was in
harmony with the broadest views they
entertained of religious liberty and toler-
ance. Young Barrington was very much
modified by his association with Dr. Bland,
and while Lady Anna Walton and Mrs.
Bland accepted the religious faith he rep-
resented as a whole, yet there had been
views and opinion, rites and observances to
which they could not consistently conform,
and so they stood without the pale of the
Church strictly speaking. Yet Mr. Barring-
ton perhaps enjoyed the society of these
refined and highly cultivated people, more
than of those to whom he was more closely
allied inside his own Church. In himself
this young minister was far above the
ordinary standard of his followers and was
most exemplary in his life, as indeed all
great teachers of the divine must be, if
they expect to lead; but he was also supe-
rior in many respects to his brethren in the
ministry, and who entertained some jealous-
ies on account of his intimacy with these
grand people, as the Walton’s and Bland’s
were designated, by the little colony of
Puritans. While Dr. Bland lived, these

[Column 2]
feelings had never become apparent, except
in whisperings here and there, but the
sparks that were smoldering were fanned to
a blaze during the winter following the
Doctor’s death. ‘‘Why should our minister
be so much with the widow;” was a
question frequently repeated with various
answers by his friends, his followers. Some
would say, ‘‘he wants to marry her, he
ought to have a wife like that, she could
help him so much.” Others again declared
he was not a consistent minister of the
Puritan faith and would doubtless soon
show his sympathy with the Church of
England” which these Puritanical peo-
ple hated.
	Meantime Mr. Barrington began to feel
that his congregation was falling off, and
that there was not the same zeal and re-
ligious fervor manifested as at first, in fact
that he was losing ground, and by and
bye, his former devoted friends began to
remonstrate with him about the course he
was taking, and when he protested his in-
nocence and resented any interferance,
actually accused him of the slanders circula-
ted about him, and of which up to this
time he had been in total ignorance.
	It was as if a thunderbolt had exploded
over his head; he was quite alone, hitherto
he had felt no need of home, or any one to
lean upon; his zeal for the cause to which
he had determined to devote his life, his
sublime faith in God, and the truths of the
Scriptures as interpreted to his understand-
ing, had been sufficient for his daily need.
He was a Biblical student, and a devont,
and prayerful man. That he had faults
and weaknesses he knew, yet his conscience
had not accused him of wrong motives in
visiting so frequently at the houses of great
people. Now he was accused of pride, of
neglect of ministerial duties to his own
flock, and of all sorts of sinister motives.
He was a man of the most sensitive nature,
and having been so much looked up to,
naturally enough he was at a loss to know
what was best to do. And when a few
days went by and he made no concessions
from the pulpit, he was informed by the
good Deacon, that unless he could defend
himself against these accusations (that had
increased rapidly in a few days) he would
be dismissed from the position he held, or
asked to explain his conduct to those
ministers with whom he exchanged pulpits;
for said the Deacon, “Your course is not
approved by those men, more than by us
who have been watching you ever since
Lord Walton accused you of being in love
with his wife, and bewitching her fancy;
and indeed we are not so sure that you are
not in league with the devil, with all your
pride, or with the abhored Church, which
we have denounced as full of abominations
enslaving men’s consciences.” The Deacon
apparently thinking the Church he detested
and the devil were one and the same.
	Mr. Barrington listened like one in a
trance, he was stunned, and could scarcely
believe this man whom he had esteemed a
wise counselor and true brother could hurl
forth such burning words and with such
cruel scorn in his tones and manner. With

[Column 3]
the native dignity and quite peacefulness
he had ever sought to exercise in every try-
ing hour he replied. “Deacon Meredith I
am indeed greatly pained that you should
believe such shocking things of one to
whom you pledged fidelity and support
when we left our native land together, but
if you are so firm in your convictions of my
lack of loyalty to the faith I hold dearer
than my own life, and if my denial will not
convince you of my sincerity and the truth
of what I say, then you, and those for
whom I have labored with the purest of
motives for their ultimate good and the
salvation of souls, must deal with me as
shall be decided according to the standard
from which you and they judge. The
Deacon was somewhat softened by the
minister’s answer, and held out his hand
saying “I fear I have been harsh, but the
people must be satisfied, and you alone can
do it, explain to them your conduct, which
looks so inconsistent with your profession;
why are you always at the widow’s, has
she greater need than all your own devoted
followers? If she was indeed a Chrstian
she would not approve of your neglect of
duty.”
	By this time the young minister was in
tears, he had felt the great need Mrs. Bland
had of some one to advise and counsel her,
had he been selfish, he asked himself, if so
he would make what reparation was
possible, he inwardly thought. He turned
to the good old Deacon for whom he had
always had a true friendship and brotherly
feeling of confidence, and said, “Deacon
Meredith you know me better than any
one else on this side the water, will you,
can you possibly, stand up before the
congregation of the ministers, or
the people, or both, in a public
assembly and say you believe me guilty of
these things, or of heresy of any nature
whatever, if you can then my case is al-
ready decided without further questioning?
	The Deacon was taken by surprise at
this speech of Barrington’s and his better
nature prevailed. He was silent for a
moment while he held the hand of his
young friend clasped firmly in his grasp—
“Speech is silver” he said, but “silence is
golden.” I will not be thine accuser, but
will defend you for I believe in your in-
nocence of any intended wrong.”
	“Then come with me to Mrs. Bland,”
said the young man and let us speak to her
of what must most likely reach her through
others sooner or later, possibly the servants
of her household.”
	“This evening I will accompany you
with my wife, for Mrs. Bland might feel
much embarrassed were no women present
at such an interview.” Thanking the Dea-
con for the suggestion that his wife should
be one of the party, and feeling the utmost
need of retirement to regain self-possession
and to seek the Lord in prayer—he walked
rapidly towards his lodgings, some dis-
tance away, by a by-path, and as he went
forward many conflicting thoughts flitted
through his mind. “Was he sure of him-
self? What was this indefinable longing
that had drawn him towards Mrs. Bland


[Column 1]
and her cousin from the first time of meet-
ing them on board the ship.” He could
not solve the question to his own satisfac-
tion, and the great pines crackled and
swayed in the wind, as though speaking to
him of the unseen, and the salt sea breeze
came strongly wafted upon the air, and as
he listened closely he heard the sound of
the roaring, turbulent waters in the dis-
tance, and the sun was just setting in the
Western sky of which he caught a glimmer-
ing view between the pines. He had never
felt the solemnity of nature so keenly as he
did at this moment, his soul was subdued
in meditation, yet sensitive to all pervading
outside influences. His thoughts reverted
to the green fields of his own country, the
quiet peacefulness he had often felt when a
boy as he wandered alone through the
sweet smelling meadows, with hedges of
luxuriant foliage, which had seemed so
strikingly beautiful, and yet in his heart he
had realized a longing for something wilder
and grander, something which would lift
him to sublimer heights; now he had at-
tained to some of the aspirations his spirit
had yearned for, he had no more the peace-
ful green fields and the flowering hedges,
with the calm and restfulness such scenes
inspire, but the wild and grand sublimity
of immense forests and the great tumultuous
roar of ocean to listen to and to gaze out
upon with admiration and wonder; and yet
above all he reflected, here as well as there,
the same heaven was shining above all the
world. And his mother, could she look
down upon her boy (for she was his ideal of
perfection in woman) and the thought of
her so long dead came like the rushing of a
river over him, and all at once he felt as
though she were by his side, as if he felt
the touch of her soft, gentle hand upon his
forehead caressing him, and peace entered
his soul, and he could fancy he heard the
rustle of the soft folds of her silken gown,
but in a moment it was gone, and he
realized only the roar of the sea and the
raging of the wind, but he was calmer in
his spirit. He bowed down in the lonely
forest, for he had strayed far from the path
to his dwelling, and poured forth a fervent
prayer for safety, for deliverance from evil,
from the snares of his enemies. Then he
wended his way in the direction of the
humble cabin, where he knew not if he
should be welcome, or whether, his hostess
too had listened to the poisoned darts of the
slanderer. He opened the door as was his
custom, and Mrs. Austin met him him with
an anxious countenance, “husband and I
thought something must have happened,
you are very late, supper has been waiting
for hours, what is the matter? Surely you
have a chill, the cold wind has numbed you,
you are pale and trembling, here take some
tea, sit down in this warm corner by the
fire, let me rub your hands; father,” (call-
ing to her husband) but by this time Mr.
Barrington interrupted her saying, “there
is no need of alarm. I am not ill, a little
cold and coming into the warm room and
seeing your kindly face almost overcame
me, the wind is very high, and the sea roars
frightfully, I hope all is well with the
cottagers this is a hard winter for the
poor.” Hearing this Mr. Austin replied
that he had been to visit several during the
day, who were in need of comforts, and
added “Patience and I were just saying be-
fore you came, we would ask you to say to
Mrs. Bland, would she help some of them
to whom the Doctor gave in times of need,
for they miss him mightily.” “Yes Mr.

[Column 2]
Barrington, John and I were talking of it
and saying it would do Mrs. Bland good to
hear some of these folks praising her hus-
band and telling her he had saved them
from want in sickness and in times of
scarcity.”
	“I am sure Mrs. Bland will help any one
you recommend and as I am to see her this
evening I will take your orders for what
is wanted, or will you call yourself my
good woman and explain the circumstances.
“But Mr. Barrington you must not go out
again tonight, such a dreadful gale is blow-
ing and the snow is falling too now I see,”
and Mrs. Austin looked out of the window,
“you cannot risk your health like that you
are not strong, John,” (she said appealing
to her husband, as she saw Mr. Barrington’s
earnest look of determination,”) don’t con-
sent to the visit to Mrs. Bland tonight.”
The good man thus entreated, said to his wife
“if he must go then after supper I will har-
ness up old Betty, and we will drive over
and you can go along Patience well wrapped
up, ’twill do you good and be a nice
change.”
	The minister knew not what to say,
what would Deacon Meredith and his wife
think, and in fact did John Austin and his
good wife know that the gossips were busy
with his good name, ought he to tell them,
no why should he, he would leave all, to
work itself out, he felt some assurance he
knew not why that he was guided, yet he
was reluctant to have these good and true
frieuds hear these scandals, if they had not
been previously informed. For a moment
he felt like a coward, then his moral heroism
conquered and he decided to submit to the
situation. Supper over he prepared him-
self for the drive, and though his heart beat
more rapidly, and his pulse quickened, he
felt that once in the open air he should
regain self-control.
	When John Austin drove up to the
house, he exclaimed, “why hang it all
here’s Deacon Meredith’s sleigh, if I’d
a known he was here, old Betty should
have stayed in the barn, I’m not fond of
the way the Deacon talks nowadays, in-
sinuatingly, and I’ve told him a time or
two to speak out and not go beatin about
the bush, I don’t care to come in contact
with him in a strange house, he’ll provoke
me to sayin something.” Mr. Barrington
kept silence—“aren't you goin to let us get
out;” said his wife, but just then “the
hired man” as Josiah the Doctor’s faithful
old butler called himself in this free country,
came out, took old Betty by the rein, and
the sleigh was soon unloaded.
	Ushered into Mrs. Bland’s drawing-room
after laying off their wraps and shaking off
the snow, there sat Deacon Meredith and
his wife complacently looking at the fire,
and Mrs. Bland’s quick glance observing
something unusual in the face of her young
friend, the minister, in whom she felt the
deepest interest was scarcely able to go
through the usual formalities always
punctiliously observed by well-bred people.
	A silence almost unbroken fell upon the
company, after they had exchanged greet-
ings and were seated, Mr. Barrington felt
his heart beat so loudly he feared it might
be noticed, then Deacon Meredith unable
longer to maintain control of his feelings
said, “I know why I’m here Madame Bland
though I came without your invitation
but I didn’t expect to see John and Patience
Austin.”
	“There’s no need of any apology for
them” said Mrs. Bland, “they are always

[Column 3]
welcome, and so are you all, and I am very
glad to see you, and hope you will have a
pleasant evening. I’ve been thinking how
selfish I have been of late shutting myself
away from all social life since my great
bereavement, and was only waiting for
more favorable weather to send out for some
of my neighbors to come and visit me in
a quiet sort of fashion, and I have also
thought much of the poor in whom the
Doctor interested himself so much, and felt
how they must miss him.’ Here was
Patience Austin’s opportunity, “I’m so
glad Mrs. Bland you’ve spoken like that
for that’s just why I’ve come out on a
stormy night like this to see you—you know
our young minister was bent on comin and
he’s not fit to walk so far, an in the storm,
and I wanted him to stop in, and John had
been out lookin after the wants of some of
the poor folks, and we’d been talkin about
some help for em and made up our minds
to tell Mr. Barrington to ask you for some
things, as we know the Doctor used to give
last winter, and when we found Mr Bar-
rington determined to come through the
snow and wind, John said he’d harness up
and I should come too and tell you myself
all about it, so that’s why we’re here, and
we know why we’ve come as well as the
Deacon does.” So here was a pill for Dea-
con Meredith to swallow; but Mrs. Bland
was ill at ease, she felt something must be
wrong from the minister’s strange look.
Patience Austin proceeded to explain some
needs of the poor and Mrs. Bland assured
her the help should be furnished and that
John and herself should distribute accord-
ing to their own discretion. All this time
Mr. Barrington sat silent, finally he noticed
Lady Anna’s harp in the corner of the
drawing room, and without asking per-
mission he uncovered the instrument and
struck some minor chords, the tone was like
magic in the hearts of all present. It was
like a harp divine, as unexpected as the
visit of angels, in fact these simple Puritans
had never heard a harp before, and it moved
them more than the eloquence of the great-
est preacher they had ever listened to, and
that was a great deal, and as the young
musician played on and on from some of
the great masters, every one in the room
was moved to tears, by emotions of tender
feeling that no language could express, and
Barrington had conquered without a word,
and the council of ministers was never
called. Refreshments were brought in and
while the Deacon and John Austin partook
of the bounteous hospitality of the hostess
of the house, and drank to her health, of
the excellent old wine brought from over
the sea, they forgot all their grievances,
and shook hands at parting, with the same
brotherly love that had formerly been their
custom when any occasion brought them
together. And the young minister drove
home with his friends, in fact he guided the
horse and unharnessed it, for the wine
had told upon John Austin, who was not
accustomed to taking anything strong, and
he was half asleep ere they reached the
little cabin in the woods. Deacon Mere-
dith’s wife afterwards told Patience Austin
(in confidence) that the Deacon was far
from sober, and so excited that she thought
he had lost his wits; however he was all
right again in the morning.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE finest nature, like the truest mind,
must be tempered in the hottest furnace.—
Whyte Melville.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FOURTH OF JULY.

A HUNDRED years, or more, so long ago,
That neither we, or any of us know—
Save what we’re told in histories pages,
Or is handed down thro’ patriotic sages,
Upon this day made great by song and story
Our brave forefathers in heroic glory,
Proclaimed the Declaration which has made.
Our country free, and foreign powers afraid.
That Declaration signed by famous men
Is our Escutcheon, blazoned with a pen
In letters riven deep, whose meaning glows
In ev’ry heart where love of freedom flows.
And we are glad to celebrate today
That anniversary and our homage pay
To fair Columbia, and the flag so grand.
Which floats today throughout this favored land.
This land of Liberty so dearly bought,
When for their rights our brave forefathers fought
That we their children, and others who might
	come,
To find in this broad land a happy home,
Might all enjoy the freedom God has given,
To all mankind to worship Him in heaven
As seemeth good, no matter what the creed
For ev’ry one best knoweth his own need.
And ever since where’er the flag is found,
On this proud day the people gather round,
And beat the drums, and martial music play, 
And march triumphantly, the grand highway,
With flags and banners floating in the air,
And joyous shouts resounding everywhere,
While of Columbia’s fame the people sing
Until the echoes through the welkin ring.
The stars and stripes are hailed with great
	applause.
The simple heraldry of Freedom’s cause,
Long may they wave, we love these symbols pure,
While peace and plenty make our homes secure,
And the fair goddess who presides o’er all
Sweet Liberty, O, may she never fall
From that high pedestal, but ever stand
The guardian angel of this far-fam’d land.
Within these peaceful vales far in the West,
Guarded by sentinels with snow-white crest,
Are sons and daughters who the truth revere
Born heirs to liberty, who know no fear,
They are the offspring of those noble sires
Whose Pilgrim fathers kindled Freedom fires
Far in the East, they lit the sacred shrine,
And lo! its glory in the West doth shine.
And on this glorious day we celebrate
The Independence which has made us great,
With gratitude to God our bosoms swell,
We know Our Father doeth all things well;
And He our country’s honor will defend,
He is the God of battles, and the Friend
Of those, who trust in His Almighty care,
And victory giveth so His words declare.
And we acknowledge His all powerful hand
Is over all in this and ev’ry land;
And while we yield obedience to His laws
He will protect us and uphold our cause;
Will give us peace, and homes wherein to dwell
He is the God who favors Israel;
So let us live we can the blessings claim,
Which He has promised us thro’ Jesus name,
June, 29, 1894. E.B.W.


THE BABY.

WHERE did you come from, baby dear?
Out of the everywhere into here.
Where did you get your eyes of blue?
Out of the sky as I came through.
What makes the light of them sparkle and spin?
Some of the starry spikes left in.


Where did you get that little tear?
I found it waiting when I got here.
What makes your forehead so smooth and high?
A soft hand stroked it as I went by.
What makes your cheeks like a warm, white rose?
I saw something better than anyone knows.
Whence that three cornered smile of bliss?
The angels gave me at once a kiss.
Where did you get this pearly ear?
God spoke, and it came out to hear.
Where did you get those arms and hands?
Love made itself into hooks and hands.
Feet, whence did you come, you darling things?
From the same box as the cherubs wings.
How did they all just come to you?
God thought about me, and so I grew.
But how did you come to us, you dear?
God thought about you, and so I am here.
	When six months old to baby Julia, from
President Brigham Young. Beaver, 1875.
	AT the suggestion of two of President
Young’s wives, we send the following
pretty little poem to the EXPONENT for
publication, believing it will be appreciated
by all young mothers, who read our paper,
as it was a selection of our Honored
President, presented to our first baby
daughter by him, when she was six months
old, in the year 1878 at Beaver, Utah.


[Column 1]
A FIRESIDE TALK WITH MY
	SISTERS.
	SURROUNDING circumstances, every
day occurrences and present conditions in
society have called forth, and aroused dor-
mant sentiments which have for the past
number of years remained expressionless
in my own home circle, but which ever
since I have been old enough to think and
reflect for myself, I have most strongly
supported which as wife and mother, I can
plainly see the necessity for adoption and
advocacy in our communities, as Latter-day
Saints, as true women, and refined modest
sisters of humanity.
	Why is it that among our intelligent
gentlewomen, so many employ and prefer
men, as Physicians, instead of those of
our own sex? Not only in contagious
diseases but obstetrics and as doctors for
their babies in all infantile troubles, every
trivial ailment, children are subjects for
medical treatment and advise. Well says
one lady "men are so much more thorough,
they have so much more time to study and
practice than women,” (we do not believe
all this.)  Yet, allowing part as true, let us
review—some of the many disadvantages,
and hindrances placed against her in this
field.
	In the first place there always has been a
strong prejudice against women in medical
colleges of the past; many not allowing her
to enter as a student, and even to day,
she is prevented, debared from many
privileges that justly belong to her.
	Next she is not paid near as large a
salary as man, and she is expected to do a
great deal more work.  I feel that this is a
gross partiality a cruel wrong.  Conserva-
tism, custom still holds an influence in
civilization; yet,we must not worry over it,
for time, intelligence and woman’s own
ability will eventually right these condi-
tions, and that which will aid and bring
about a reform the most speedy will be the
firm, united support of women by women.
	We read in history that the Mohammedan

[Column 2]
wives and mothers held that inherent
modesty sacred: they would not allow men
doctors to wait upon them in their most
trying sicknesses.  I have in the past year
when reading of the fearful atrocities per-
petrated by men of the profession, felt to
exclaim, would to Heaven our women of
the Nineteenth Century were more like the
Moslem women of far off ancient Arabia
in some respects!  We are taught that true
modesty is one of the most lovely orna-
ments a woman can possess, I hold it next
to virtue as the most necessary: and al-
though a woman may have beauty of form
and face, intelligence, wealth and all other
attainments combined, without pure
unadulterated modesty she falls far short of
what God intended her to be.
	I do not desire you to misunderstand me.
I have great respect and esteem for compe-
tent men practitioneers, yet, I wish to say
words of encouragement and faith in
those of our own organization, (I write-
from personal experience,) who can so fully
comprehend our needs and wants as they,
who so truly feel and sense our suffering as
refined, educated gentle womanhood? Who
so readily tell and judge every feeling of the
heart, the mind the working’s of natures
laws as those of a similar constitution?
Therefore, let us sustain them, not only in
words but deeds, prove our loyalty and
friendship, respect and approval of their
undertakings. Patronize and love them,
use our influence, strengthen them by our
confidence and defence on every occasion
possible.
	Ignorance is a strong factor where its
power is acknowledged and allowed to grow,
yet numbers nor force cannot long with-
stand the light of intelligence, the rays of
superior knowledge of brain qualities,
where principles of sound judgment and
true wisdom are arrayed. Just as soon as
women are themselves fully awakened to
the realization of their own qualifications,
their real value as doctors and nurses, just
so soon will every one else, men included
acknowledge them as such.
	We wish our doctors (our lady doctors)
every success. We desire them to be
highly educated in all branches of scientific
study, to improve every opportunity to
grasp every advanced idea that presents
itself, to keep pace with the glorious age
we live in, to be thorough, accurate,
systematic and capable; to have dignity
and gentleness combined, modesty, purity,
neatness, order and love pervade their every
walk in life and thereby, prove that they
are just what we would wish them to be,
ministering angels on earth.
	J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, July 3rd, 1894.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	LIFE has no securities to those who live
regardless of law.
	GOOD food makes good blood, and good
blood is the life of the body.
	AS threshing separates the wheat from
the chaff, so does affliction purify virtue—
Burton.
	To lie down after work and to take off
pressure, is to render a doctor unnecessary
in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred.
	EDUCATE the stomach. When it is once
accustomed to simple food, voracious ap-
petite, distress, and disease will disappear.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON .Camilla), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra lor postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m, to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JULY 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
TEMPLE EXCURSION.

A NEW DEPARTURE.

	ONE of the most unique and pleasant
excursions of the season, and quite new in
its character, was to Brigham City recently,
the party consisting of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple people and a few invited guests, the
First Presidency, the Presiding Bishop and
one or two others, besides those regularly
engaged in that sacred house. To President
Lorenzo Snow belongs the credit and the
honor of originating the idea of such an
appropriate holiday rest and entertainment.
Everything had been planned beforehand,
the party was to visit Brigham City and
places adjacent, and the saints in that vicinity
were delighted to have this opportunity of
welcoming to their generous hospitality, the
venerable President of the Church, and his
Counselors as also his immediate friends,
and brethren and sisters Temple workers,
find their own revered. President Lorenzo
Snow, who for so many years had been the
leading spirit in everything connected with
the welfare of the people in that Stake of
Zion, spiritual and temporal.
	Leaving Salt Lake City at 3, p. m. July
22nd, the train pulled out amid cheers and
parting salutes of bystanders who had
come to see the party off. The day was
fine but a thunder storm came up, and when
the party reached Brigham City the rain
was pouring. Horses and carriages were
waiting, but the hundreds of children who
had come out in white, with flags and ban-
ners were obliged to retreat to the opera
house for shelter,—however when the long
line of carriages was ready and began the
line of march, the storm had abated, and
the children were ranged in line each side
along the way, bowing, smiling and waving
their banners, and saluting President Wood-
ruff and the party, who in return saluted
them from the carriages in passing. After
driving through the principal streets and
counter-marching—the party were taken
to the places where provision had been
made to entertain them respectively, and
feasted and rested until evening—when the
old-fashioned party was held in the dancing
hall of the opera house, which was hand-
somely decorated for the occasion. The
music was excellent, and there were some
wonderful old-time memories awakened as
the brethren and sisters participated in the
square cotilions, minuets, Scotch reels and
Roger de Coverly etc. Brother Dunbar had
his bagpipes along and everywhere he

[Column 2]
amused and interested the company by way
of variety.  In fact we remarked several
times he was like the king’s jester, “so
witty and full of originality.” Miss Salm-
on gave The Massacre of Zoroaster admir-
ably, the singing by the Temple choir,
an daquartette of local singers, were a charm
ing feature of the evening.
	At nine a. m. Saturday morning the
party were again in carriages enroute to
Mantua; the morning was delightful, the
air refreshing after the shower of the day
previous. At Mantua again hundreds of
children greeted the party, many of them
never having seen President Woodruff or
his Counselors before. Mantua is beautifully
situated in a little peaceful vale hemmed in
by high mountains. Here the meeting
house was decorated with flowers and vines
and flowering plants and shrubs, the
streamers above the stand where the Presi-
dency were seated bore a Welcome in blue
and gold letters. Here President Woodruff
and both his Counselors also Apostles Lo-
renzo Snow and Franklin D. Richards each
made brief and appropriate speeches, en-
couraging the people and speaking in praise
of the beautiful farm homes, the enterprise
and thrift manifest on every side.
	The dinner at Mantua was a most de-
lightful success, in the larger room were six
tables, about twenty people were seated at
each of these, and in a smaller room we were
told there were three tables of about the
same seating capacity. The great variety
and the skilled cooking was indeed notic-
able. Beautiful vases of flowers ornament-
ed the scene, the largest and ripest straw-
berries and cherries added to the effect, and
honey in the comb white and pure, the most
delicious cream, together with all that makes
up a dinner fit for a king, or the most fas-
tidious Epicure was there in abundance—
“the tables” (might well have) groaned
with the weight of the feast.” After dinner
President Snow in the most pleasing man-
ner announced that toasts and sentiments
from the guests would be in order and
“opened the ball” himself in a humorous
way. This was followed by several of the
company some being called for and others
responding voluntarily. The Bishop of
Mantua had his share of congratulations,
and everything passed off pleasantly. While
the party were dining the school house
filled with children awaited the return of
the Presidency and party, who spoke to
them for a few minutes previous to leaving
on the return trip to Brigham City.
	On the way home the party were driven
past the reservoir which is on the top of a
high hill at the mouth of the canyon only
reached by a winding road, the water is
cold and of excellent quality, and in
sufficient quantity to supply the City.
	A concert in the evening at the Opera
House made a fitting finish of the day’s
enjoyment and festivities. The entertain-
ment of the evening at the Opera House
was a grand affair and the management for
the visitors and guests was quite perfect, as
indeed was the entire program from first to
last. The concert was given in honor of
the Salt Lake Temple Party. The archway
over the platform was artistically covered
with roses so beautifully arranged that none
but an accomplished artist who knew how
to make his work effective from the seats in
the body of the house, could have made it
such a success. The perfume of the sweet-
scented flowers pervaded the atmosphere of
the room. The concert began with music
by the Mendon Brass Band, followed by a

[Column 3]
song “Come where the Lilies Bloom” by
the Brigham City Choir, beautifully ren-
dered, Recitation, “The Martyred Mother.”
Ray Evans, very pathetic and feelingly
given showing thought and study of the
situation.  The Temple Choir, a
double quartette, “When Evening’s Twi-
light,” was brilliantly executed. Then there
was more music by the band, meanwhile
Brother W. C. Dunbar dressed in costume
for the old time favorite song “My Old
Wife and I.” A violin quartette by Mag-
nus Benson and others was one of the most
interesting features of this enjoyable concert.
An original poem given by Lula in her
quaint and sedate style was very well re-
ceived and heartily and graciously applaud-
ed.
(POEM BY LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.)
June is, I think, the happiest month of all the
year;
Its bounteous gifts of flow’rs and fruits, so
luxurious appear.
The laughing brooklet, and the bird’s sweet carol
to its mate,
All speak of gratitude and love, which should our
hearts elate.
The hearts of all who know the worth of friend-
ship being tried,
In little voyages, to and fro, upon Life’s Ocean
wide.
I’m wondering, if, the past year’s voyage, this
grand old Ship, at Sea,
Came freighted with such gifts for each, as it has
brought to me.

Not wealth of silver, or of gold; nor gems of
worldly kind;
But Heavenly joys, with faith increased, and won-
drous peace of mind
The kingdoms of this world can claim no place,
no parity,
Compared with the pure love of Christ, unfailing
charity,

And this rare gift true Friendship brings unto the
chaste and meek;
They do receive, and they do find, who humbly
ask and seek.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” we sing; if Christ’s
pure love we show,
We do approach Him, day by day, and nearer
like Him grow.
But of this beauteous summer month, and this
delightful place,
I thought to tell, yet wandered off, somehow, to
broader space.
Excuse me, I return, and would your kind at-
tention claim;
The First of June was Brigham’s Day, this City
bears his name;

The Salt Lake Temple he designed; truly appro-
priate,
Their first vacation, all its workers, thus should
celebrate.
What generous hospitality from our Box Elder
Friends!
How can we praise our God enough for all the
good He sends?
Mantua—for the birth place named, of him who
wisely plan’d
This sacred, great Excursion, how excellent and
grand
Its situation in the hills, its people brave and
kind;
What pleasing memories often will present them
to the mind.

Again, of Heber Kimball think, who stood by
Brigham’s side;
Long o,er the great Endowment work commis-
sioned to preside;
We rarely think to mention that these men, so
true in heart,


Had birthday's both in June, and only fourteen
	days apart.
We visit Willard City named for one most 
	staunch and good;
’Twas Willard who with Brigham Young and 
	Heber C. once stood.
Why not to his dear memory a loving tribute
	pay?
Remembering that the Twenty-fourth of June
	was his birthday.
The Deseret News, to whose good works, so very
	much we owe,
Was Willard Richard’s paper first, forty-four
	years ago;
The first Post Office Utah knew, he was the 
	Master in; 
(’Tis hard to pause when of such men biogra-
	phies begin.)

But I would turn again to God, and to His blessed
	Son;
And mention, if I may, something which they for
	us have done:
A year ago last Spring, we, through the Prophet
	Wilford learned,
The key in favor of the Saints, in Jesus’ hand was
	turned.
Who has not felt the force of this? Who has not
	seen the pow’r
Of God, more plainly manifest,since that event-
	ful hour?
I testify that I do know, and in each fiber sense
The truth of Wilford Woodruff’s words,and God’s
	Omnipotenee.
Christ holds the key; that loving hand through
	which the nail was driv’n;
His prayers unto His Father reach; His people 
	were forgiven;
Their offering was accepted, and, with Joseph at
	the head
Of this Last Dispensation,  unerringly they’re
	led.
God bless the Prophets of our day, who for His
	people care;
And bless the honest, pure in heart,and virtuous,
	everywhere;
Who love the truth, and speak the truth, and
	live it, day by day;
And help us all to overcome the evils in our way.

God bless the Temple workers,and great light on
	them bestow;
Especially our President and head, Lorenzo
	Snow.
And multiply all blessings on our kind Box Elder
	friends;
Then, how can we praise God enough, for all the
	good He sends.

	Instrumental selections by Holst 
Brothers were exceptionally good and Mrs.
Maggie Hull sang with much feeling a
favorite Scotch Ballad.
	B. M. Young who was to have given
"Chinese Imitation in character, gave in-
stead some comic acting in costume, which
created quite a furore with the younger part
of the audience, and then came a comic
selection by a few of the Brigham City
Choir “Peter, Peter Pumpkin Eater.”
	Changing the character of the entertain-
ment was an original true story composed
and read by Nephi Anderson.  The reading
and the scenes described were restful and
true to life and portrayed the talent of the
young man in story telling, though the
pictures were not so powerfnlly drawn as
to be at all exciting.  Next came Brother
Dunbar with his wonderful Scotch Bag-
pipes which never failed to be “a drawing
card” for the applause of the audience,
especially with his peculiar explanations,
given so graphically as no one else could
do but Brother Dunbar himself.  Mrs.

[column 2]
Armeda S. Young gave the recitation
“Whistling In Heaven,” getting a full
share of applause from the audience. “The
Whippoorwill’s Song” by the Brigham
City choir was sweetly and effectively given,
and music by the Mendon Brass Band
closed the brilliant performance; the verdict
of all was a most delightful evening.
	Sunday morning dawned beautiful and
bright, and early the streets began to fill
with boys and girls, young men and maid-
ens wending their way from all parts of
the city towards the meeting house, where
at 10 a. m. the Sunday school exercises
began.
	President Woodruff and his counselors
George Q. Cannon (Supt. of Sunday
Schools) and Joseph F. Smith, and Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards,
President Rudger Clawson and counselors
of Box Elder Stake were in the stand.
Other brethren and sisters of the visitors
were on the platform and the sight was in-
deed a charming and glorious one. The
body of the house filled with the younger
children was like a flower garden only far
more effective because instead of flowers
only, there were the intelligent faces and
bright eyes beaming with joy and happiness
of many hundreds of children, the “Hope
of Israel.”  There were some exercises
excellently well rendered, both in singing
and recitation, but the time was mostly
occupied by the First Presidency who made
brief addresses and asked a few questions
suited to the occasion.
	At 2 p. m. the Tabernacle was filled with
the grown people who had given place to
the children in the morning,and the preach-
ing by the First Presidency was solemn and
impressive, though full of encouragement
and hope to those who were trying to live
their religion and follow the Savior’s teach-
ing. President Woodruff and his counse-
lors seemed filled with the Holy Spirit and
with a desire to bless and comfort the
people, and it must have been exceedingly
gratifying to the Saints in Box Elder to
have an opportunity of hearing the aged and
venerable President speak of his long and
wonderful experience in proclaiming the
Gospel from almost the commencement of
this work.  His intimate associations with
the Prophet Joseph his Brother Hyrum
and many of the Apostles who are now
passed behind the vail.  President Wood-
ruff’s sermon seemed almost like testimony
from the spirit world.
	Notwithstanding all the precious things
that were said during the morning and
afternoon services, the evening meeting was
even more intensely interesting and will
never be forgotten by those who were
present.  The singing was particularly ap-
propriate and elevating  The stand was
filled with the presiding authorities of the
Church and of Box Elder Stake of Zion
Bishops etc. as well as Elders who
were Temple workers.  Meeting opened
with singing the anthem, “I will lift up
mine eyes” by Brigham City Choir, prayer
by Bishop Valentine, singing “Hymn of
Praise” by Temple Choir.  President
Snow announced that there would be short
speeches from one to five minutes by the
Temple workers including himself.
	Bishop John R. Winder was the first
speaker, he was followed by Elder John
Nicholsen chief recorder, Elders Hiram
Groesbeck, N. W. Jones, James Sharp, W.
W. Riter, Jos. H. Dean, Bishop Romney,
Elder William Salmon, Bishop Sheets,
Elder Theodore McKean, Elders W. C.

[column 3]
Dunbar. McAllister and L. A. Wilson.
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and Minnie J. Snow, each spoke
very effectively for a few minutes, after
which Elders Samuel W. Richards and
Adolph Madson made short speeches.
	President Woodruff addressed himself to
the large congregation most impressively
by asking the question “Of all the mil-
lions of the inhabitants of earth, who
among them are assured that the judg-
ments of God will not overtake them?
He answered “None but those who have
the priesthood and are entitled to its bless-
ings and privileges.  The Lord has com-
menced his work of pouring out judgments
on the earth as has been prophesied by in-
spired men.  The powers of the air are
more destructive than ever, and this means
something.  The Priesthood has power and
the heavens will listen to the prayers of
those holding the holy Priesthood.  Great
changes are at our doors and many who are
present and their children will live to
see them.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	
	President Woodruff seemed filled to
overflowing with the spirit of prophecy and
solemnly testified that the angels had left
the portals on high and were now among
the nations of the earth.  His remarks
were full of inspiration and the spirit of
prophecy, and the impression made upon
the congregation can never be effaced from
the memory of those who listened to his
voice on that wonderful occasion.  Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon also bore a power-
ful testimony. The meeting was closed
with the entire assembly singing the
Doxology.   Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards pronounced the benediction.
	Monday morning the company proceeded
in carriages to Willard City, stopping a
few moments at Three Mile Creek where
the Sunday School children and their
teachers had gathered with flags and ban-
ners to welcome the President and party.
The Presidency responded, greeting the
children happily, and the party wended
their way to Willard, arriving in time for
the meeting at ten o’clock.  The Meeting
House was beautifully decorated with
mottoes, banners and flowers, and the
people were assembled and waiting.  The
exercises were very pleasing, consisting of
music vocal and instrumental, and ad-
dresses were made by the Presidency,
Brother Dunbar brought out his bagpipes
and Mrs. Hull sung “My Western Home,”
very expressivly. “The Sleigh Ride” by
the Willard City Choir, was heartily ap-
plauded. There are some very fine voices
among that choir.  The dinner given in the
City Hall was an immense success; here
again the tables were loaded with every
variety of fruit, vegetables etc. and a dis-
play of dainty cooking and handsomely
furnished,and hall and tables decorated for
the occasion.
	A photographer was on hand with his
apparatus and the company as a whole
seated at the table was photographed.
	After dinner the party met the children in
the meeting house, and the Presidency
addressed them in their usual kind and
fatherly manner.  At Willard the party
took the train for Salt Lake City.
	The whole affair was peculiarly interest-
ing and entertaining.  Nothing happened
to mar the pleasure of the party,the greatest
harmony prevailed in all the diversified
gatherings, and it will long be remembered
as an important and pleasurable event.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						157


158							WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OLD TEMPLE WALL.
Dear Exponent.
	I CAME home and found you awaiting
me, and when I commenced to read, my
eyes fell upon some verses headed “The
Old Temple Wall.” I read them and re-
read them and wondered who the writer
might be, did he or she feel as I had felt
when I first heard it was doomed to fall,
was at first as it were stunned for a time,
and in my heart of hearts I sighed, “O, that
I had the gift of an E. R. Snow, John Lyon,
H. T. King or of E. H. Woodmansee,
I could draw from the depth of my soul an
offering for that sacred wall.” How well I
remember seeing our brethren work upon
it, I watched them from the day it was
commenced until the day it was finished,
good hard working men willing to build
that firm substantial wall without money;
for true Zion had but little money in those
days; but some who were not skilled in
building, raised cows and horses while
others raised grain and other provisions for
the support of those who performed that
noble work. And I have watched our be-
loved President Young and his associates
standing holding COUNCIL under the shade
of that once grand old wall, but now
doomed to yield to fancy’s art.
	Do our sons and daughters think that we
are clumsy after educating them, so that
we like the honored wall appear clumsy in-
deed, we used to pray in simplicity, “Our
Father in heaven we ask thee in the name
of Jesus thy Son to bless thy servants who
labor on thy Temple Wall that they may
be strengthened to endure the heat, and that
they may be kept in thy choice care,and be
preserved from accident and receive the re-
ward of the faithful,” those prayers were
answered and witnessed by me.
						AN OLD TIMER.
Salt Lake City, June 18, 1894.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake was held in Lehi, on
Monday April 30th, 1894, President Mary
John presiding, assisted by her Counselors.
Sisters Marilla Daniels and Deborah Billings.
Visiting Sisters from Salt Lake City,
President Zina D. H. Young and E. B.
Wells. Bishop Cutler and other brethren
also present.
	Conference opened by the usual exercises
reading of reports, each one reporting
the work verbally done in her society, and
the different methods used to raise money
to help the poor, one society reported hav-
ing cooked a nice dinner and invited the
merchants to come and anyone else who
wished to come, to do so, and the money
thus gained was put in the poor fund and
was a great help to the society, not one of
the needy had suffered (to their knowledge)
there was considerable said by each
President in regard to the wheat, how
much there was on hand, and the best
method of preserving it etc. the society
was represented as being on the increase in
faith and good works, the members ener-
getic and faithful in their duties much was
said in praise of the teachers as being a
faithful band of workers, deserving of
much credit, for the diligent discharge of
their duties, etc.
	Sister Zina addressed the conference for a
short time in her pleasant quiet way, was

[Column 2]
pleased to have so many of the brethren
with us, could feel the good spirit with us,
it unites us.”  President Young advised
meeting together often, it unites us, strive
to keep the holy spirit with us continually,
be firm in our faith and integrity, encourage
each other.  Speak kind words to, and of
each other while living and not wait till we
are dead. Sisters can appreciate each
others work, there are some who are always
ready and willing to work and help others.
Sister Eliza said if you want help, go to
the workers, they are always ready and
willing to help others, sisters, read the
Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants, read and digest them.  Our strength
lies in God and he will give us the victory
for our integrity we need not fear, etc.”
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time
on our duties and responsibilities, also
spoke of our wheat, said she would like to
get advice from the brethren as to the best
way to preserve and take care of it, we
must take care of it, for it has been said by
one of our prophets that the time would
come when a bushel of wheat would bring
a bushel of gold, we shall be called on for
bread, this wheat is only to be used in case
of famine, etc.
	Bishop Cutler spoke on the wheat also,
and of the time of famine which we might
expect according to the prophecies, thought
the work the sisters were doing was very
commendable.  After singing Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.  Benediction by
William Southwick.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing and prayer, a few reports were
given in, after which Sister Deborah Bill-
ings said if her testimony of the truth of
this work would help any one she would
feel repaid for her timidity, said she had
lived in Nauvoo, in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, under the sound of his
voice had also passed through the mobbings
in Missouri spoke of the organization of
this society in Nauvoo and on various
other subjects.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the very
very great work this is in which we are en-
gaged.  Our Prophet realized the greatness
thereof; wished the sisters had more houses
of their own, each branch should have a
house if possible, was sure the brethren
would help them build, they could work
together and help each other and could do a
great deal without money.  Let us pray
for Sister Zina our President who presides
over this great organization which extends
to so many lands, she needs the prayers of
our sisters as much as President Woodruff
does and we always remember to pray for
Him, we need the prayers of the faith-
ful the speaker gave some of her early
experiences, knew Joseph Smith was a
Prophet as soon as she saw him, she knew
him when only a child, had a strong
testimony of the truth of this work.  Spoke
of the faithfulness of the people in the
days of the Nauvoo troubles. She ex-
horted the young sisters to bear testimony
to the truth thereby keeping it bright, ad-
vised the sisters to read the Lectures on
Faith, and talk about them, said it would
strengthen their faith, for they would need it
soon.  Spoke on the wheat question, told
how surprised, and pleased some of the
ladies were, that she had met in Chicago,
to hear of our saving wheat, “I invited
them to come to Zion and we would feed
them, if they should be in need, what a
terrible thing it is to be hungry, some of us
have had an experience in the days of

[Column 3]
want.”  Spoke of beautifying our homes
providing work for the needy, of the waste
of grain made into liquor etc. thought
when women had the right to vote there
would not be so many saloons in the land.
Spoke on silk culture, advised the putting
out of mulberry trees or cuttings. Spoke
of the medals awarded at the fair for the
silk, and upon the laws of health, thought
through faith and prayer and correct living.
a great deal of the suffering now endured
might be done away with etc.
	Sister Zina said Brother Brigham ex-
horted her to work up the silk industry
and we might just as well have been wear-
ing silk of our own raising and exporting
half a million of dollars worth every year,
if we had taken hold of it, and put our
children at it; and a great many things
might be manufactured here instead of
sending to Babylon for them, “teach your
children the laws of life and health, that
they may live to the age of a tree.” Spoke
against round dancing—thought many had
been injured by indulging in this practice.
	Sister John had been highly edified,
thought it a good plan to change our con-
ferences from one place to another, it gives
all a chance to attend; was pleased to see
so many young sisters, they will have to
take the responsibility some day in the
place of the older sisters, advised them
to take Sister Zina’s counsel, in regard to
reading the Lectures on Faith, spoke of the
power of faith in the healing of the sick,
the sisters have faith as well as the brethren.
She spoke on various other subjects, silk
industry, home manufactures etc. Sisters
Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells had
each spoken on, and advised the sisters to
prepare the straw and make their own hats,
bonnets etc.
	Sister John announced that there would
be a Woman Suffrage meeting held in Provo
on the following day and all were invited to
attend and advised the young ladies to join
that association etc.  There was a call
made for all who knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith to arise to their feet, sixteen
responded to the call.  After singing,
conference was adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop Cutler.

	ON Tuesday, May 1st, at 2 p. m. a
Relief Society meeting was held in Provo,
President Mary John presiding.  Singing,
“O my Father,” which was rendered in a
beautiful manner by a choir of young
ladies from Spanish Fork.  Elder Oliver
Huntington in a few remarks gave his bless-
ing to the sisters, after which Sister Z. D.
H. Young addressed them, said Joseph turned
the key for woman, “he laid the foundation
of the power that we have today, all that
love the truth show it in their faces.  We
all have a portion of the Deity implanted
in us, we are the women that God has
chosen, and let us be true to each other and
never speak slightingly of each other.  Our
Savior appeared first to a woman after his
resurrection.  The Relief Society is or-
ganized all over the world wherever this
Gospel has been preached.  We can give
glory to God in all things for we feel our
dependance on him.  The Jews rejected him,
and if we had obeyed counsel we would
have been better off today.  We must
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
and he will sustain us.”  Urged the
mothers again to read the Lectures on
Faith, to take a few minutes each morn-
ing and they would never miss it, and when


we have the spirit of God we can work
better. "Let us take the Exponent, for
we can gain knowledge there that will 
exalt us that we may become companions
for our husbands. We are helping our
Savior to save souls, let us never lose sight
of the mark of the high calling." Spoke 
of the great work the sisters are doing and 
how often they helped the brethren to 
furnish and decorate their meeting houses; 
said in some settlements the sisters go 
around and help those who have large
families to do their sewing, and house
cleaning, thus lifting heavy burdens from 
them, her remarks were lengthy and varied
and full of good counsel and instructions to 
the sisters. 
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke of the sweet
spirit that had been with us today, of the 
good counsels of Sister Zina; said, she is
full of love, charity and kindness. 
Joseph was educated of the Lord, and we 
want to learn all we can for the world to 
come, for we cannot be saved in ignorance. 
	Sisters Gates and John both made good 
remarks, which would make the minutes
too long if reported. After singing, 
" Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"
meeting adjourned. Benediction by Sister
Billings. 				C. DANIELS, Sec. 
		BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference of the 
Bear Lake Stake convened in Bloomington, 
Idaho in the Meeting-house, May 27, 1894. 
On the stand were President William 
Budge and Counselor W. J. Rich, and all
the leading women of the Stake, President
J. P. Lindsey presiding. Singing, "Do 
what is Right." Prayer by William
Budge. Singing,  "Home, Sweet Home."
The roll called and minutes of the two
previous meetings read and received.
President J. P. Lindsay, in her opening re-
marks wondered if the sisters fully realized
the importance of their mission on the earth
and the many blessings they enjoy from
time to time. 	
	The following branches were then re-
ported all as in good running order: 
Bloomington, Sister Nelson; St. Charles
Fish Haven, Garden City, Lake Town, 
Woodruff, Paris, First and Second Wards, 
Nounan, Ovid, Liberty, Montpelier, 
Bennington, George Town, Dingle, 
Thomas Fork and Preston. 
	President Lindsay gave some instructions
concerning the keeping of grain, urged
the sisters to procure good places for their 
grain, and take good care of it. Coun-
selor Collins explained to the sisters the 
great necessity of attending their meetings
regularly and trying to improve themselves
said that the Lord would bless the labors
of the honest in heart. 
	Meeting adjourned by singing, "God is 
Love." Benediction Bishop Humes. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, "On
the Mountains Tops Appearing." Prayer
by Bishop West of Paris. Singing, "Think
gently of the erring one."
	President Lindsay said that we had re-
ceived instructions to hold our regular 
meetings once in two weeks, desired the 
presidents to comply with this request as 
far as possible. Gave further instructions
concerning the storing of grain, spoke of 
the sisters taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
said that the paper should be sustained. 
	Counselor L. M. Hart was delighted to 
see so many present, said it was the great-
est representation we had ever had in con-
[Column 2]
ference, spoke at some length on the sub-
ject of Charity, and also of the encourage-
ment given us by the presidency of the 
Stake. The statistical and financial reports
were then read, after which Brother Cluff, 
President of the Brigham Young College
at Provo, being present, addressed the meet-
ing. Said the sisters were engaged in a 
great work, and that its greatness could 
not be conceived any more than the great-
ness of the gospel of Christ. Said the 
Lord always blesses the gathering of the 
sisters they are helping in no small way the
work of the Lord on the earth. The 
labors of the sisters were found in all the
 byways of life, urged them to study the 
principles of the Gospel. Spoke of the 
visions of Joseph Smith, and the explana-
tion of them, given by the great men of 
the world, encouraged obedience in the 
children. 
	Closing remarks were made by President
Lindsay, who thanked the people of Bloom-
ington for the house. Conference ad-
journed. Singing, "And, oh the Lord 
will hear me." Benediction by Brother 
John Bagley. 					Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.							159


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
June 2, 2894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing,
“Glorious things are sung of zion.”
Prayer by Sister M. A. Hazon. Continued
by singing, “For the strength of the hills 
we bless thee.’  Minutes of previous 
meeting read and approved.
  President M. I. Horne said “Our Secre-
tary is still not permitted to meet with us
Her sister was buried from her house
yesterday.  Let us pray that she may yet
come and meet with us.”  President Horne
spoke of a Circular from Sister Lizzie Shipp,
concerning the opening of a class to study
Obstetrics, which was read by Sister Lydia
D. Alder.  President Horne also spoke of a
lady in our midst who had made a study of
children and mothers, said Professor Stew-
art thought a great deal of the lectures on
this subject, said it would be beneficial for
the daughters and young mothers to attend
them.  Counselor Stevenson spoke at some
length on the calamities that were being
poured out on the nations, and of the up- 
rising of the unemployed element in our
own land. “They do not know what they
are going to do, yet their way seems marked
for them" Counselor Stevenson also gave
many good instructions to the sisters re-
garding the raising of children, urged the
sisters to understand their duties, as wives
and mothers, and so live that God can bless
them.  Sister Holland urged the sisters to
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father, and be faithful, for He would cut
his work short in righteousness.  Sister E.
Barrus also bore testimony, and spoke of
many things in her experience.
  Sisters sang “Come, come ye saints,”
Sisters Aird and Jedpeila bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Sisters Raw-
lings and Kiddle also testified of many
glorious truths, and desired to ever be true.
  Sister Sarah Kimball said," I am thankful
to be here, and I feel to rejoice before the
Lord.  My mind went back to other days
as I came into the meeting this afternoon,
years ago when these meetings were first
organized.  President Horne had six
counselors seven to preside, myself and

[Column 2]
Sister Horne, are all that are present
and only four of the original number re-
main, soon all will have passed away.
Sister Howard, was a pioneer in woman’s
work,I feel to bless you all, and desire that
we may live near to the Lord.   We all have
our individual lives to live.  The scriptures
teach us that Jesus trod the winepress
alone, so our troubles are not known to
our friends, only to us and God.  We have
our individual sorrows and joys.  In our
hearts we feel a compensation for our
sorrows, and this brings a blessing, to help
us to a higher life.  In sorrow we draw
nearer to God, He knows us best and
understands our life works.  Sister Kimball
closed by giving her blessing to her sisters.
  Sister L. D. Alder felt to encourage the
sisters in their great life work, pictured out
the necessity of living near to the Lord
that we might enjoy the communion of the
Holy Ghost, which leads into all truth and
light, desired that we might all be faithful,
that in the end we might enter into His
presence.
  President Horne added a few closing re-
marks.  Desired to see fathers and mothers
take note and be wise in cultivating their
children, and restrain them all in their
power, gather them around their knees and
teach them, of God, His requirements, and
his laws, and read them the stories of old
in the Bible.  President Horne also warned
the parents to pay strict attention to the
genealogies of their families. The meeting
was adjourned for four weeks, on account
of the conference.  President Horne an-
nounced the Stake Conference to meet in
the Assembly Hall, June 15, 1894.  De-
sired all the sisters to attend.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet.”  Benediction, Sister J. C. Howe.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


FLORIDA LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT EQUAL RIGHTS AS-
			SOCIATION OF UTAH.

Dear Friend:
	THE next annual convention of the N.
A. W. S. A. meets, as you are aware, in
our own Southern City, Atlanta.  The
south, while generally conceded to hold the
greatest possibilities for future work, is al-
most unbroken ground; and we have in ad-
dition to the usual discouragements, an
unsympathetic and often hostile press.
  To bring the cause into prominence in
this section, to gain for it a large amount
of advertising it would not otherwise re-
ceive, and to “put money in our purse”
which will enable us to do a greatly needed 
work before the convention in February,
we have decided to have a bazaar. For
this we ask what we trust you will consider
most modest and expensive aid. It is that
you will lay before your State Societies our
request that each send us one apron and
one sun-bonnet, for either women or
children. This while a small outlay for a
society, will if but a few respond from
each state, make with our own efforts a
brave showing. The proceeds to be turned
over to the president of the Southern
Committee to be used for work in the
south.  Will you not aid us, and at once?
And may we not hope to hear from you on
receipt of this.
                 Sincerely Yours,
	ELLA C. CHAMBERLAIN, Prest.
Tampa Florida, 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

AT 3 p. m. the 13th day of June 1894,
nearly one hundred guests, met in the
north ward Relief Hall,Nephi, to celebrate
the golden wedding of our highly esteemed
friends, Brother Jacob G. and Sister Amy
L. Bigler.  The party was made up of the
children, grand children and great grand
children of the honored couple; the
Presidency of the stake, Bishops and their
Counselors, Relief Society stake officers,
local officers, and old time friends and
fellow laborers in the Gospel.
  After congratulations to the bride and
bridegroom, the company sat down to a
table well filled with the good things of
this world, very beautifully decorated, the
greatest attraction being the wedding cake,
the largest and most tastefully decorated
cake I have ever seen, and it tasted just as
good as it looked, the cake was made by
Mrs. M. A. Tanner, eldest daughter of the
aged couple.
  Brother and Sister Bigler were some of
the first settlers in Nephi, and the Bigler
family are one of the most respected fam-
lies in Nephi.  He has filled several
prominent positions in the church and is
now Patriarch of the Juab Stake, Sister
Bigler holds the office of first counselor to
Sister M. Pitchforth, President of the
Relief Society of the stake.  She
is a wise counselor and true and faith-
ful to every duty, we had a very enjoyable
time.
 The program consisted of songs, recita-
tions and speeches rendered by the children,
grand children and great grand children,
also friends of the respected couple, all very
appropriate for the occasion.  Sister S. A.
Cazier sang, a golden wedding song,
Brother Bigler’s sons, each one expressed
their feelings, said if they followed the
advice and teachings of their father they
would never go astray.  Brother Bigler
gave a short sketch of his early associations
with this church.  He referred to several
incidents in the life of Brother Joseph
Smith, testified to the instance of the
mantle of Joseph falling on Brigham
Young.  Brother Bailey testified to the
same.  Said he was not acquainted with
Brigham, and rose from his seat to see if it
was not Brother Joseph speaking. Sister
S. M. Love also testified to the same.
  Sister Bigler thanked her friends for their
presence and good wishes.  Brother Bigler
is in his 82nd year, and Sister Bigler in her
72nd year.  May they both live as long as
life is sweet to them, was the prayer and
benediction of all present.
			      E. S. GOLDSBROUGH.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
        UTAH COUNTY W. S. A.
	ON Tuesday morning, May first, a W. S.
A. convention was held at Provo, President
Electa Bullock in the chair.  Delegates
were present from most of the towns in the
County and the attendance was unusually
large.  A very interesting program was
carried out. a choir of beautiful young girls
from Spanish Fork, furnished sweet and
inspiring music for the occasion.  There
were some original papers read, one by
Fanny Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, and one
by Margaret Gaddy, of American Fork,
both were excellent; Mrs. Gaddy’s paper
was published in our issue of June first.
Brief speeches were made and addresses

[Column 2]
given by the Delegates and others present;
among whom we recall Mesdames Mary
John, Manila Daniels, Joanna Patten and
Ellen Jakeman, of Provo, Zina D. H.
Young and E. B. Wells of S. L. City.
Hannah Lapish of American Fork made
quite a characteristic speech telling in her
humorous style of her trip to California and,
attending some Woman’s Congresses.
  Some important business was transacted
and after the Convention adjourned, all
present were invited to partake of a
delicious lunch prepared by the ladies in
Provo for this special occasion, and the re-
sult was indeed a perfect success. The
social enjoyment was a particularly at-
tractive feature; such gatherings promote
union and call out the best attributes of our
natures.						     H.

	     PLEASANT GROVE W. S. A.
	THE Woman Suffrage Association of
Pleasant Grove met in the meeting house
on Friday, May 25,1894, for the purpose of
effecting a reorganization. Vice-Presidents
Mary John and Marilla Daniels of Utah
County organization were present. Miss
P. E. Brown acted as temporary chairman.
Fifty-one members were enrolled and the
officers were elected.  Mrs. Emeline Rich-
ards, President, Mrs. F. E. Stewart first
vice-president, Miss Maggie Shipley second
vice-president, Miss Libbie Mayhen record-
ing secretary, Miss Grace Mayhen corres-
ponding secretary.  Miss Mary Swenson
treasurer.  Mrs. Anna S. Walker chairman
of second ward and Mrs. Elizabeth Stewart
chairman of third ward.  Members of
executive board.  Mrs. Sarah Foutz chair-
man, P. E. Brown, Lorena Dalley, Hattie
Thorne, Vie Smith, Maggie Adamson,
Elizabeth Davis.  Meeting adjourned for
one month. 	GRACE MAYHEN, Sec.

	HE that repents every day, when he
comes to die will have the sins of but one
day to repent of; short reckonings make
long friends.—Philip Henry.
	IF a man does not make new
acquaintances as he advances through life,
he will soon find himself left alone.  A
man should keep his friendship in constant
repair.—Doctor Johnson.
	AS a cross word begets a word that is
cross, so will a kind one beget its own
likeness.  If people only knew the power
they possess in being kind, how much
good would they achieve for themselves,
how much misery prevent for others!
	THREE very excellent things, and of
great utility, advised by Washington
Irving, are reading, conversation, and re-
flection.  By reading we treat with the
dead, by conversation, with the living, and
by reflection, with ourselves.  Reading en-
riches the memory, conversation polishes
the mind, and reflection forms the judg-
ment.  But of these noble employments of
the soul, were we to say which we think
the most important, we must confess that
reading seems to be the groundwork of the
other two; since without reading, contem-
plation is fruitless and conversation dull
and insipid.
	THE Young Woman’s Home, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., has been saved from sacrifice
by a wealthy gentleman named Binkley,
who paid a $6,000 mortgage.  “Name it
for my mother,” was the only condition of
the gift.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20 “
2:00 p. m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00 “
4:40 “
6:10  “
†10:10 “
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Elle[-]y Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the above five names]

D. E. BURLEY
Gen. Agt. Pass. Dpet.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
