VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1895		No. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Convention And Woman Suffrage. Birthday
Anniversary—Alice M. T. Tanner. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Vilate Young. R. R. Reports.
A Few Thoughts. Resolutions Passed At
The National Council cf Women. Obituaries.
In Memoriam. The Woman’s Bible.

	EDITORIAL:—Notes Woman Suffrage.
Miss Anthony and Party. The National Council.

	POETRY:—In Loving Remembrance—Lydia D.
Alder. A Missionary’s Family.—Annie Kay
Hardy.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE,
of
LITTLE MARGARET.
(Dedicated to my children George and Dean.)

O happy singing little voice
	Forever stilled in earthly home;
The restless, pattering, eager feet
	O’er its portals now have gone,
To never more return again
	Till Christ the Lotd is come.

The thoughtful, lustrous eyes of brown,
	Are closed away from scenes of earth;
The dainty form is laid so low,
	Where ne’er is heard the sound of mirth;
But waits the call of Christ the Lord
	When He shall come to earth.

O, loved ones do not mourn as those
	Who never heard the Gospel sound;
Your precious darling has passed through,
	The “Golden Gates” to Heaven bound;
Where those have gone who love her well—
	And flowers immortal she has found.

Earthly flowers are born to fade,
	To fall to dust and pass away;
But Love will last beyond the grave, 
	More glorious grow and ne’er decay.
For Christ, the Lord, shall come and say,
	“Arise! It is the Resurrection Day.”

Then perfect love our eyes will see,
	Nor fear, nor blight will make us sigh;
For now all griefs have passed away,
	The Saviour wipes each streaming eye;
And low He speaks to every heart,
	“Fear not, for here the loved ones never die.”

O, Land Immortal, where flowers bloom,
	That never fade, by the North wind’s breath;
Where parted loved ones meet again,
	To never more be rent by Death;
Where is thy bounds, where thy rising towers, 
	Where thy babbling brooks, where thy rosy
		bowers?

Be still fond hearts! Ye tears be still!
	The Lord thy God, still cares for thee;
O, wait in patience for the day
	When you shall His salvation see;
The beauteous Land will come in sight,
	And life and love eternal be.

“Good-bye” sweet Margaret, for a little while,
	The flowers you love, now bloom for aye;
Keep some for Mama and Papa too,  
	That you gather through the golden day;
And bring them down to the now dim shore, 
	When they too, pass over ‘The Way.”
							LYDIA D. ALDER.
Feb. 14, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION AND WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	A CALL for a convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association was issued
about the middle of March and telegrams
and letters sent out to notify those living at
a distance from headquarters who would
wish to attend, and on the 18th of March
the Utah Territorial W. S. A. held a con-
vention in the Probate Court room of the
City and County building. Delegates were
present from several counties and the
Territorial President was elected chairman
of the meeting, the vice-presidents were
Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Nellie M. Little, Secretary
and Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Assistant
Secretary, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Chap-
lain. After Mrs. Young had offered prayer
and the call had been read, Mrs. Richards
moved that the president appoint a com-
mittee on Memorial to draft a suitable docu-
ment to present to the Constitutional Con-
vention then in session. The President
Mrs. Wells appointed Mrs. Richards Chair-
man. Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs. G. S.
Carlton, Mrs. J. S. Gilmer, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Amelia F. Young,
Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. C. E. Allen,
Mrs. Emma McVicker, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs J. D. Pardee
Mrs. E. H. Parsons. The committee re-
tired five minutes, and while they were out
speeches were made by county presidents
or their representatives; Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson Salt Lake County, Lucy A. Clark
Farmington who read an original paper on
the subject, displaying a great deal of talent
and clearly setting forth her arguments.
Mrs. Hannah Lapish, American Fork,
Mrs. Jennie Nelson, Ogden, Mrs. M. A.
Grover, Nephi, Mrs. Celia E. Bean, Rich-
field, Mrs. Alvira L. Cox, Manti, repre-
sented counties. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne a
veteran pioneer and mother in Israel spoke
briefly, Mrs. Jane S. Richards of Ogden
an Honorary Vice-President of the National
American W. S. A. also made a few for-
cible remarks, also Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Mrs. Kate Hilliard of Ogden, and Mrs.
Joanna Melton of this city, Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers, Farmington, and Mrs. Ellen S.
Clawson Salt Lake and perhaps one or two
more. The committee returned, the chair-
man read the memorial, which on motion
was adopted and signed and no other
business being presented the convention
adjourned sine die.
	In the afternoon many of the ladies went
into the hall where the Constitutional Con-
vention was in session. Hon. F. S. Rich-
ards a member of the Convention presented
the memorial, it was read by the Secre-
tary and referred to the committee on
Elections and Suffrage.
TO THE HONORABLE PRESIDENT AND MEM-
BERS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL CON-
VENTION OF UTAH:
	WE your petitioners and memoralists,
representing the great majority of the wo-
men of Utah, and more particularly as the

[Column 2]
official representatives of the great women
organizations of Utah, numbering in ag-
gregate membership over 35,000, viz.
	The Utah Suffrage Association auxiliary to
the National American Woman’s Suffrage
Association, the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association; these
thousands of women standing in a general
way, or in virtue of direct official relation-
ship, as our constituents, we, your mem-
orialists speak in their names and in be-
half of the women of Utah herewith pre-
sent the woman’s cause.
	It is a matter of congratulation that in
these closing years of the nineteenth cen-
tury the cause of woman can, without the
stigma of partisanship, be laid before a
body of chosen men ordained to the work
of creating a new sovereignty within the
galaxy of states as an equal member of the
indissoluble Union. The men of Utah, in
their respective political parties, have with
equal unanimity, said that women shall be
accorded equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, that sex distinction shall no
longer be a ban and a bar to equal oppor-
tunity with men to exercise the God-given
powers and capabilities with which women
are endowed for purposes of equal self-
government and equal enjoyment of the
inalienable rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness. We take it that the
men of Utah have spoken honestly,
sincerely and conscientiously as true men to
that equally large number of citizens who
are now disfranchised, who are now de-
prived of authority to speak a word or cast
a vote in the framing of an organic law
which determines their personal and prop-
erty rights, their civil and political status
in the social organism.
	We are glad to feel assured that our
brothers are dealing honestly and
righteously with us, and that they will or-
dain truth and justice in the name of God
and humanity. And we are happy, too, in
the belief that these overtures made by the
men of Utah are in line with the onward
march of civilization, that the bow of
promise is rising higher and brighter in the
heaven of human hope, that with the ele-
vation and emancipation of women "the
plans of God are ripening with the process
of the suns." And we say to you that we
contemplate no rival sovereignty, no sphere
peculiar and apart, no conflicting regime or
antagonistic legislation, no hostile policy or
divided counsels. No, the woman move-
ment means only true human progress. It
means higher and truer harmony, more
genuine and enlightened fellowship, more
real co-operation. more vital and perpetual
union. The key and clue to all true pro-
gress is the larger harmony that the Infinite
Spirit is breathing into the rising grandeur
of human development.
	As Constitution makers, as framers of
the chart that shall guide us in what we
hope to be a long and prosperous future,
you will cherish in your deliberations a
sacred regard for the principles of liberty,
for those undying axioms that have been
laid at the foundations of our Temple of


[Column 1]
Freedom. We have thousands of women
in Utah who are property holders and tax-
payers in their own right. Probably no
other state furnishes as large a roll of tax-
paying women. “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.” This was the key-
note, the bugle call of the revolutionary
fathers in their struggle for liberty. Says
James Otis, in 1764, in one of the pamph-
lets that made our independence, “The
very act of taxing, exercised over those
who are not represented, appears to me to
be depriving them of one of their most es-
sential rights. For what one civil right is
worth a rush after a man’s property is 
subject to be taken from him at pleasure,
without his consent. If a man is not his
own assessor, in person or by deputy, his 
liberty is gone.” Hon. Charles Sumner,
in his speech on March 7, 1866, endorses
these declarations of James Otis, and he
says “Stronger words for universal suffrage
could not be employed.” His argument
is that if men are taxed without being rep-
resented, they are deprived of essential
rights.
	These axioms are as clear as sunlight,
and it would be in violation of the funda-
mental principles of our institutions for the
men of Utah to frame laws whereby wo-
men property holders shall be taxed with-
out their consent given through such
representation as is accorded to men as a 
condition precedent to their being taxed.
	Again, all our constitutions, either in
terms or in substance, commence their
preamble with that comprehensive formula,
“We, the people.” Our government is
“of the people, for the people and by the
people.” Whatever the status of women
may be, they are at least a part of the
people. As such the government provides
a place for them, and by no form or prin-
ciple of reasoning can they be deprived of
such rights and privileges as inure to men
under government, without at the same time
destroying the natural rights which men
hold for themselves to be inviolate.
	Furthermore, by the Declaration of In-
dependence, the existence of government
hinges upon “the consent of the governed.”
This consent is to be given through the 
forms and provisions whereby govern-
ments are made and administered. This
consent goes to the framing of the constitu-
tion, to the enactment of laws under that
constitution and to the administration of
those laws; and there can be no consent
without representation. Hence the dis-
franchisement of half the people and a 
large proportion of taxpayers and creators
of wealth is tyranny pure and simple, even
though it be under the shadow and in the 
name of liberty and free government.
	But we seek not to weary you with the
recital of axioms. What we desire is that
we may uphold your hands in revealing
them to the world and making them effec-
tive in human government. Jefferson laid 
a deep foundation for human freedom in
planting equal rights at the roots of the tree
of liberty; but it was given to Lincoln to
make those principles most effective, and to
cause them to shine as the noonday sun in
the firmament of American history.
	He said: “I believe the day is not far
distant when women will wield the ballot
to purify and ennoble polotics. I go for
all sharing in the government who assist in
bearing its burdens, by no means excluding
the females.”
	To you, gentlemen of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, it is given to make other

[Column 2]
deep and fundamental principles of our
government effective in the administrations
of law. We do not doubt your ability and 
willingness to do so. But we come to greet
you in behalf of the women of Utah, to 
strengthen your hand and to assure you
that we are keenly alive to the importance
and far reaching consequences of your labor
in our behalf.
	“And above all we would impress you
with the fact that the women of Utah are
by no means indifferent spectators of the
drama that is now being enacted. We be-
lieve that every age has its rising and its
setting sun. We believe that the woman
movement has come because the sun of our
civilization has thrown across our social 
horizon the dawning of a new and more
glorious era in the history of man. We
believe that “through the ages an eternal
purpose runs,” and that in the full enfran-
chisement of women there will come a 
larger and truer sovereignty, a national con-
scientiousness in fuller harmony with the 
temporal welfare and happiness of man.
We believe that both men and women will
be benefitted morally, socially and econom-
ically. We believe that now the time clock
of American destiny has struck the hour to
inaugurate a larger and truer civil life, and
that the future writers of Utah history will
immortalize the names of those men who,
in this Constitutional Convention, defying
the injustice and prejudice of the past,
strike off the bonds that have heretofore
enthralled woman, and open the doors that
will usher her into free and full emancipa-
tion.
	“We therefore ask you to provide in the
Constitution that the rights of citizens of
the State of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex, and that male and female citizens
of the State shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.”
	The memorial was signed by the follow-
ing ladies: Emmeline B. Wells, president
of the Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah; Emily S. Richards, vice president;
Zina D. H. Young, president of the 
National Woman’s Relief Society; Jane S.
Richards, vice president; Ellen B. Fergu-
son, Salt Lake County Suffrage Association;
Electa Bullock, Utah County Lucy 
A. Clark Davis and Jennie Nelson, Weber
County; Celia E. Bean, Sevier County
Alvira L. Cox, Sanpete Co., M. A. Grover,
Juab County; and many others.
	At ten o’clook the morning of the 19th,
a hearing was given to the ladies’ who had
been invited to speak before the Committee
who had the memorial in charge. Hon. J.
F. Chidester Chairman of the Committee,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball introduced the
speakers with a few preliminary remarks.
Mrs. F. S. Richards read a carefully pre-
pared and logical paper, Mrs. Carlton now
of Wyoming formerly of Utah told in a 
very interesting manner of the practical 
work of the franchise in that state, Dr. M.
Hughes Cannon read an able paper, every
word of which was telling, the subject being
whether women would be more susceptible
to priestcraft than men. Mrs. Joanna
Melton spoke very forcibly illustrating her
remarks in a very original way. Mrs. A.
S. Pardee followed with some bright
thoughts in expressive language and read
a few paragraphs from the Arena for Febru-
ary clinching her arguments in good
style. Dr. R. B. Pratt read a paper giving
her view and embellishing beautifully the

[Column 3]
facts she presented. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
last on the list and spoke to the question
without notes, or references. A few minutes
being left Mrs. Zina D. H. Young was in-
vited and made a few remarks upon wo-
man’s place in the world, and Mrs. Jane S.
Richards of Ogden being urged to speak
came forward with a few pertinent words,
this closed the hearing before the Com-
mittee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	MONDAY, Feb. 25th, 1895, Counselor
Jane Bickley invited President R. W. Tyler
to accompany her for a drive which she did.
At 2 p. m. they entered the Society Hall
where to her great surprise the family of
Sister Tyler and a large number of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society with their hus-
bands were awaiting her arrival, the event
being the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of her
birth. After the house was called to order
Counselor M. A. White made a few ap-
propriate remarks telling the object of the
meeting which was to show the esteem the
Society entertained towards their worthy
President. The meeting then opened with
singing and prayer, after which an excellent
programme consisting of speeches, songs,
recitations etc. was carried out. President
Tyler thanked those present for this mark
of their esteem and gave a brief synopsis of
her life since joining the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1832;
she first identified herself with the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Hancock Co. 111. in
1842.
	While the pic-nic, which had been pro-
vided by those present was being prepared
for passing, Sister Tyler went around shak-
ing hands with all the large assembly who
had met to honor her. After all had par-
taken to their satisfaction of the bounteous
repast the afternoon’s proceeding closed
as they had opened, with singing and
prayer.
	Before closing Prof. Bickley read and pre-
sented the following to Sister Tyler. 
						Alice M. T. Tanner.

			ACROSTIC. 
[Written on the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the
birth of Rnth W. Tyler.)
		Round another year has rolled,
		Unto us its tale has told,
		Tears, and laughter, joy, and pain,
		Have been number’d in its train.

		While its changes we recall,
		Each leal heart has thanks for all, 
		Leaning on our God, and Friend,
		’Tis His love all blessings send. 
		Once again we honors pay, 
		No regrets, this happy day. 

		To our friend we wish much joy, 
		Year by year, as they go by,
		Long may pleasure wreathe her brow, 
		Every happiness below, 
		Rest at last in Heaven.
	Respectfully, Your Brother, 
						W. G. BICKLEY
Beaver City Utah. Feb, 25th, 1895.


“THE California Senate, on March 14,
voted in favor of a constitutional amend-
ment extending full suffrage to women.
The amendment had already been adopted
by the Assembly. Three cheers for Cali-
fornia.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MISSIONARY’S FAMILY.

THREE little ones at bed-time came
	Around their mother’s knee,
Murmuring baby prayers to God
	Whom they believed, but could not see.

The first, a boy, would close his eyes,
	He was only eight years old,
To thank for life, and daily bread,
	And then his dearest wish unfold.

Bless father, O my God, and bring
	Him safely home, I pray,
Amen.” No doubt the little ones request
	Would help the wanderer day by day. 

Little sister, six years old,
	In turn bowed down her head,
And echoing Willard’s closing words
	Sat waiting by the bed.

Baby Mill, whose tiny lips
	Could frame no words we knew, 
Next hid her face in mother’s lap,
	Saying, “gig, and gog, agoo.”

I see it all, the humble room,
	The grease lights flickering glare;
The scanty fire, an empty bin;
	But, of love, a good full share!

The letters from across the sea,
	O, how we’d dance, and run!
We knew so well they would begin
	With “42, Islington.”

At last the joyful news we heard,
	Our father’s mission done!
The four, long years were ended,
	And he was coming home. 

My heart is full, as memory keen 
	Points to a time most dread;—
A messenger one night-fall came
	To say, “your father is dead!”

In a lonely grave they’d left him
	On Colorado’s plain,
And the little prayers at eventide
	Ne’er mentioned him again.

But she who wakened early faith
	Ceased not good words to tell,
And, quenching grief, she gently taught,
	“He doeth all things well.”
				ANNIE KAY HARDY.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 9th, 1895. Counselor E. Stevenson
presiding. Sang, “Come O Glorious Zion.”
Prayer Sister Rachel Brown. Sang, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved; also Fifteenth
Ward Primary.
	Counselor Stevenson was well pleased
with the good attendance, hoped we would
be well repaid for coming out. We have
everything to be thankful for  If ever
there was a time we should live near the
Lord it is the present. Satan is not asleep.
He knows his time is short. I hope it
may be. We should have watchful care
over our children. If Satan can’t lead us
he will attack them. Snares will be laid
for them everywhere. A short time ago I
heard one of our boys using the most pro-
fane language. It makes me weep when I
think of these things among the Saints.
What is to be done with our children? We
are told they cannot be lost, neither can they
be saved in their sins. They must repent
and become worthy of salvation. I am re-
minded of a circumstance where a young
girl married out of the Church. She said

[Column 2]
its all right my father can save me. For
my part I want nothing but what I earn,
and am deserving of. It would be very
unjust could we be saved through our
parents without being worthy. We can’t
go to Heaven on a flowery bed of roses.
As parents we have a great work to per-
form. We should live lives worthy of im-
itation, never be rude or boisterous, or
call our children unbecoming names, above
all never let them hear us quarrel. Its not
becoming Saints of God. I would like to
hear our young people covenant never
never to let their children hear them utter
an unkind word. If quarrels must come
don’t let it be in the presence of children.
None can pass through their life without
bitter experiences. As Saints would we
take money for our experience? I would
not. We must be faithful. Always bear-
ing in mind the race is not to the swift;
but to those who endure to the end.
Sisters I now leave the meeting in your
hands. Make good use of the time. May
the Lord bless us with a rich outpouring of
his holy spirit.
	Sister Snow, I have been in the Church
fifty three years. Have passed through
much. Have had many manifestations in
dreams and visions; and I know this is the
work of God, etc.
	Sister Rawliston said, “I know this is the
Kingdom of God. Also that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God. There is nothing
outside of this Church for me. I have
passed through severe trials. But my
heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly 
Father for all his goodness to me in per-
mitting me to receive this Gospel. Have
had many testimonies, have been healed of
blindness, through the power of God. I am
passing through a great trial, on account of
my boy falling away from the Gospel. I
ask my sisters to assist me by their faith and
prayers, to bring my boy back into the
church again,” etc.
	Sister Rachel Brown “I know this is the
true Gospel of Christ. I am grateful for
the testimony. We must make our own
record. What comfort there is in the
knowledge we possess in being called to
part with loved ones. We can reconcile our
selves. We know they are safe. That
God is just, and doeth all things for our
good. That if we are faithful, we will
surely meet our dear ones again.”
	“What joy will be there,” was then
sang.
	A sister spoke of the goodness of God
to her. "I love to meet with my sisters, I
have come here with a broken heart, and
have had it healed by the words of comfort
spoken. We should cultivate charity,
when our feelings are hurt, by our
associates; how noble it would be could we
say in our hearts, “Father forgive them.”
And pray to the Lord for patience and
strength to bear our trials, when we
realize our weakness. We should strive to
live meek and lowly. May the blessings of
Heaven rest upon all, etc.
	Sister Howe, ’my beloved sisters I know
the spirit of the Lord is here. The words
of Malachi are, They that feared the Lord
spake often together. We should leave
care at home, and come here with hearts
centered on the things of God. At one
time I felt that I never could be reconciled
to losing my children. But there are tempta-
tions every where. We know not how our
children will turn. When I was young
doctrine was taught to terrorize. The young

[Column 3]
children of the Saints know nothing of this.
Satan has not power to tempt children under
eight years of age. Parents should teach
them why they should be baptized. The
best of parents have children go astray.
Adam sinned that men might be. Don’t
be discouraged though our children should
go astray. Teach them correct principles
in their childhood, and sooner or later they
will return. Take comfort from dreams.
Where they give comfort it is from God,
made other remarks.
	Sister Julia Pack thought we had the
most reason to be thankful of any people on
the earth. Inasmuch as we strive to do
right the Lord will help us. We can’t be
too careful, about judging our fellow beings.
We know not the motives that prompt them.
My desire is to continue faithful, etc. A
sister said I don’t know how I could live
without going to meeting. If we don’t
serve the Lord he knows it. How can we
expect to have our prayers, answered or re-
ceive the blessings we desire. If we give
our time to the Lord he will give us every
blessing, etc.
	Sister Midgely said this is the first time
I have had courage to stand up and testify
of the goodness of God to me.
	I should feel condemned did I not speak a
few words to day. My desire is to do right
at all times. As wives and mothers we can
accomplish much. If we are faithful to
our prayers the Lord will point out to us
our duties. We often have to give com-
fort to our husbands when we feel we need
to be comforted ourselves. In order to
gain blessings we must pass through trials,
etc.
	Testimonies were borne by other sisters
All felt thankful for blessings received.
Felt desirous of doing all the good possible.
	Counselor Stevenson made closing re-
marks exhorting the sisters to be faithful to
every duty. To be united in all things per-
taining to the Kingdom of God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
Doxology. Benediction Vilate Young.
				VILATE YOUNG, Sec.


“UNDER the guise of a law relating to the
registration of births, marriages and deaths,
the following measure is proposed for 
enactment by the Legislature of Mas-
sachusetts:
	Section 3. Physicians and midwives
shall, on or before the fifth day of each
mouth, report to the clerk of each city or
town a correct list of all children born there-
in during the month next preceding, at
whose birth they were present, stating the
date and place of each birth, the name of
the child, if it has any, the sex and color
of the child, the name, place of birth and
residence of the parents, the maiden name
of the mother, and the occupation of the
father. If the child is illegitimate, the name
of the father shall not be stated, unless at
the joint request in writing of both father
and mother.
	“It is the practice of the police, when they
raid houses of ill-repute, to report only the
names of the women found on the premises.
This clause should be amended to read:
“Unless paternity has been acknowledged
or legally proved.” To provide by law 
that the father of an illegitimate child shall 
be shielded from responsibility unless he 
requests otherwise, is going a long step 
further. Such a bill would have small
chance of passing if women were voters.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1895.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE terrible accident at Almy, Wyom-
ing, which made so many widows and or-
phans momentarily, has been pathetically
portrayed in verse, and sent to the Expon-
ent but we were obliged to lay it over un-
til next issue.
	THE editor of this paper begs leave to
state that owing to uncontrollable circum-
stances, no paper was issued in March, and
trusting to the generosity of the sisters to
overlook this once, especially as it is the
question of finance, and we hope it may
never occur again, and certainly will not if
the sisters whose names are on the list of
subscribers will sustain the paper by their
subscriptions.


[Column 1]	
WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	THERE has been much discussion pro and
con in the Constitutional Convention on the
equal suffrage plank in the Constitution for
Utah. Many important matters have been
brought to the attention of the people that
would otherwise have been overlooked, had
there not been some opposition. It is al-
ways best to hear both sides and certainly
those who listened to the open and fair dis-
cussion of this question in Committee of
the whole, must have been edified and in-
structed
	The majority report of the Committee on
Elections and Suffrage had been made be-
fore this discussion of the question begun;
this report was in every sense of the word
most satisfactory to those deeply concerned.
It reads as follows:
	“Resolved—That the rights of citizens of
the state of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied, or abridged on account
of sex. Both male and female citizens of
this state shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.’’
	The minority desired to make a report
and time was given them to prepare it, and
it was submitted later, and really one can-
not speak very highly of such a weak and
flimsy document; women are too good to
vote and similar language, and inferring
their generosity and religious convictions
might make it dangerous &c.
	We are very sorry we have not space to
give the report in full, as it shows how
trifling are the objections offered
	It is pitiful to see how men opposed to
woman suffrage try to make the women be-
lieve it is because they worship them so, and
think them far too good, and one would

[Column 2] 
really think to hear those eloquent orator
talk, that laws were all framed purposely to
protect women in their rights, and men
stood ready to defend them with their lives.
But all this specious reasoning does not
change the stubborn facts that still remain,
and of which some women at least are well-
informed.
	There are men and a large number who
are generous, chivalrous, brave, and yet
tender and true, if there were not, the
world would be in a worse condition than it
is at present. It is to help good men do
better work that women wish for the fran-
chise. The great world of humanity
needs helpers, the broadest, truest and best
principles are those great general ones that
reach out to all mankind.
	The writer cannot doubt the good faith
of the members of the Convention in car-
rying out the wishes of the people as ex-
pressed in both platforms, and though the
vote has not been taken, it is sure to be in
the affirmative. The women of Utah have
never failed in any time of trial of what-
ever name or nature, and their integrity is
unquestioned. To the honorable gentle-
man who have spoken so ably and eloquently
on the affirmative, the thanks and gratitude
of all womankind should be tendered,
whether all women believe in voting or not;
to the other side we can only say they have
been bold and must answer to their own
consciences; they are no doubt honest in
their convictions and let us hope the
practical experience that will come
with the ballot may convince even them
that good may follow and they and their
children receive the benefit of what they
could not discern in the future progress of
the world.


MISS ANTHONY AND PARTY.

	ON the 12th, of May, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, President of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association will
arrive here enroute for California and will
remain for two or three days and hold a
Woman Suffrage Conference of the
National American Association in this city;
the exact dates and place of meeting will
be given later, and the conference will be
advertised, as it is expected it will be
numerously attended from different parts of
the Territory. Miss Anthony will be ac-
companied by the Rev. Anna Shaw one of
the most brilliant speakers in America, also
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick of Boston cele-
brated for her logic and eloquence on the
platform, Miss Estelle Reel and Mrs. Mary
C. Bradford of Colorado, and Mrs. Jenkins
of Wyoming who are all fine speakers and
the three last named ladies also have the
privilege of voting as well as talking. Of
Miss Anthony’s name and fame we have
all heard, her name is so associated with
the cause of woman’s enfranchisement as
to make it dear to every true lover of
liberty and freedom.
	Utah will be proud to welcome Miss An-
thony and her party to its hospitality, of
that the writer entertains no doubt. One
who has stood up so heroically in advocat-
ing unpopular doctrines as Miss Anthony
has at a time when few men had the moral
courage to face the opposition to the Anti-
slavery question, must possess in a very
marked degree the qualities which help to
move the world. She is a great General,
and her zeal and earnestness in the battle
for equal suffrage has won the esteem and

[Column 2]
respect even of those who are opposed t
the question. The legal rights women
enjoy today in many of the states over and
above those of long ago are in a great
measure due to the effective and persistent
labors of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia
Mott, Lucy Stone and others of imperish-
able memory and Susan B. Anthony who
has for nearly half a century now faithfully
labored for the women of this nation, that
they might have all the privileges of free-
dom and justice.
	That she is realizing some reward for her
diligence through the full enfranchisement
of women in Wyoming and Colorado as
well as partial suffrage in many other states
must be very satisfactory to her, and we
trust ere her promised visit, Utah will have
incorporated in the body of her Constitu-
tion equal suffrage for all citizens irrespec-
tive of Sex.
	It is ardently hoped that the women in
all parts of the Territory will make it a
point to come and hear these famous wo-
men. It will be remembered Mrs. Stanton
and Miss Anthony visited Utah in 1870 at
which time two meetings were held. Many
of those who were prominent in public
matters then, both men and women have
passed away, but the spirit of liberty and
justice and of equal rights that permeated
the Territory then, exists today and is more
strongly emphasized by growth of suffrage
sentiment throughout the world,and by the
signs of the times which are significant of
the dawn of far-greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton visited
Utah in 1870, and had very enthusiastic
meetings, but they could not compare with
what we shall have in May next. The
signs of the times are all indicative of the
growth of suffrage sentiment and point
significantly to greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
We need Miss Anthony now more than ever,
we are in a state of transition as it were
and such power and eloquence, such wit
and wisdom as she possesses in great abund-
ance will help Utah women to more strongly
emphasize the platform of equal rights, and
to appreciate the new conditions which will
come to them with increased responsibility
under the fuller liberty conferred by the
franchise in the new state.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	THE Triennial Session of the National
Council of women held in Washington
from February 17th to March 2nd in-
clusive, was an unprecedented success
from first to last. This magnificent gather-
ing will leave its impress upon the age for
all time. The dignity of its officers, the
executive ability manifest in conducting
the business and entire proceedings, has
without doubt never been surpassed by
women. Every visitor conceded that the
President Mrs. May Wright Sewall carried
off the honors most graciously, and with-
out hesitation or embarassment whatever
the emergency. Under any and all circum-
stances she was equal to the occasion.
Whatever doubts one may have had in re-
gard to women presiding, or preserving
order in large assemblies must all be dis-
pelled in witnessing the justice and perfect
equanimity observed by Mrs. Sewall from
the first day of the Council to the last.
	To single out one particular day as the
best, or a speech surpassing all others in


[Column 1]
eloquence, or originality, or depth of
thought, or breadth of sentiment, would
be entirely beyond the writer’s scope.
Where there is so much to admire, and to
try and comprehend, so much that is lofty
and brilliant, wise and tender, one cannot
discriminate by mentioning specially un-
less obliged to do so as a critic.
	The opening address by the President
was full of suggestive ideas, and was most
ably delivered. It contained several re-
markable paragraphs which taken separ-
ately would be complete in themselves
which showed strength and conciseness in
thought and expression.
	Mrs. Sewall quoted in the opening part
of her address these fitting words of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s used in the open-
ing of the International Council in 1888,
and also repeated by Miss Frances Willard
at the first session of the National Council
in 1891. “A difference of opinion on one
question must not prevent us from working
unitedly in those on which we agree.”
Mrs. Sewall further says, ‘‘To work to-
gether with those with whom one does not
agree has been thought to be impossible to
women, and indeed even during the era of
organization the central motive of organ-
izations has been to bring together those
who do agree.”
	The National Council has already proven
that women who differ very materially on
many vital matters may harmonize and
fraternize in such a way as to do good and
effective general work along the lines of
progress, upon which all women who work
for humanity must be able to stand firm
and steadfast for the overthrow of ignor-
ance and injustice. 
	The most celebrated women of the
Council whose names are known, far and
wide, after mentioning the President were
Susan B. Anthony, Frances E. Willard, 
Rachel Foster Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw,
Lady Isabel Somerset, and the Countess of
Aberdeen; following these one might give
a long list of names of distinguished women
who make this grand Council famous by
the brightness of their past records in the
various lines of work,of reform, education,
philonthopy, literature, art and science.
Were we to enumerate them it would
mean column after column of names only,
but their beautiful faces, their glowing
countenances beaming with superior in-
telligence, made a setting fair to look upon
in that assembly, never to be erased from
the minds of those, who day after day
gazed upon the living picture, and studied
its merits from the stand-point of its in-
tense value to the world of mankind.
	Taken as a whole the Council has left its
impress upon the age, and the power and
force of such magnificent efforts and suc-
cesses will be felt for good upon the peo-
ple of the world in this and other lands.
The good word will be repeated and
echoed and reverberated until it shall reach
foreign shores and the islands of the sea;
the gospel of better things, the hour of
promise of the good time coming will begin
to illuminate dark and benighted nations
 through such vast concourses of enlighten-
ed peoples as the Council is bringing to-
gether.
	Women have made rapid advancement 
during the last few years, especially has it
been noticable since the International Coun-
cil of 1888, and when in 1898 the National
Council of women of the United States
meet and transact business as an Upper and
Lower House, perhaps public sentiment

[Column 2]
even among men will begin to set in to-
wards equal suffrage and equal privileges
regardless of the condition of sex.
	Among this grand body of women who
met day after day in Metzerott’s music
hall in Washington there were seven from
Utah who took part in the proceedings,and
and it is only fitting and proper to say they
acquitted themselves creditably, and were
everywhere well-received and accorded
every privilege that could have been ex-
pected. The Utah women represented
two of the great organizations which com-
pose the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
and the President of each of these great
Associations is vice-president of the National
Council of the women of the United States,
and has a voice in all measures, and in all
questions that come before that august
body of women. The women who are
members of these organizations should try
to become acquainted with the objects, aims
and purposes of this great consolidation of
Womens National Societies and they would
more fully appreciate the reasons why rep-
resentation therein is so desirable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The Annual District Relief Society Con-
ference on the East side of Bear River was
held at Montpelier Feb. 24th, 1895, Stake
President Julia P. Lindsey presiding.
Meeting opened by the choir, singing the
hymn, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by David Osborn. Singing, “Now let us
rejoice in the Day of Salvation.”
	President Lindsey, made a few remarks,
stating the purpose for which we had met
together, after which the various wards
were favorably represented by their respec-
tive presidents whose names are as follows.
	President Hagansen of Montpelier. Presi-
dent Vanormam of Bennington. President
Fretwell of Georgetown. President
Dalymple, of Preston; President Dalton
of Thomas Fork. President Sparks of
Dingle, as there was no one present from
Soda Springs, that ward was not reported.
	President Lindsey was pleased with the
reports given also thankful for the good
condition of the Relief Society on this side
of the river as this shows the sisters are
improving. Said we have a great labor to
perform, as daughters of Zion, and there is
great blessings in store for us if we are
faithful, we should remember the teachings
of our Savior and try to follow his worthy
example and be kind and charitable to-
wards all, not allowing ourselves to indulge
in selfishness, for our Heavenly Father is
not pleased with us when this is the case,
we should be thankful for the trials we are
called to pass through, for they are calcu-
lated to strengthen and purify us, and to
prepare us for a higher sphere. President
Lindsey gave much good and timely in-
structions, especially in regard to the stor-
ing of grain, she bore a faithful testimony
to the truthfulness of this great Latter-day
work, and closed her remarks by encourag-
ing us to make good use of the time and
talents which God has given us that we
may be able to give a good account of our
stewardship.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “Come listen to a Prophet’s voice.”
Benediction by Charles Bridges.
M. A. PERKINS, Sec.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “All hail the Glorious Day.”
Prayer was offered by Elder James E.
Hart. Singing, “Come listen to a
Prophet’s voice.” The sacrament of the
Lord’s supper was administered during
which the choir sang a sacramental
hymn.
	Counselor Elizabeth Colling was the first
speaker. She exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and showed them that they
have a work to perform as well as the
brethren, she urged the sisters to seek for a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel, she
bore a faithful testimony and urged mothers
to make home pleasant for their children
and gain their confidence and respect.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, spoke of the trials
and perplexities with which we are sur-
rounded but they are placed upon us, that
we might prove ourselves worthy of an
exaltation in the kingdom of God, she
urged the sisters to study the principles of
the gospel, and live up to them, she bore
her testimony to the truth of the gospel and
urged the sisters to so live that they might
have the Spirit of God to guide them
through the trials of life, said the spirit of
God had illuminated the darkest hours of
her life.
	Sister Mary Bagley, said trials come up-
on this people through neglect of duty.
Urged the sisters to be faithful in perform-
ing their duties, said there is over 4,000
branches of the Relief Society and over 27,-
000 members; when one neglects her duty it
does not retard the progress of her society
but only the one who fails to perform her
duty, she spoke of the pleasure there is in
doing good to others, we should be chari-
table to the poor and needy.
	Elder Hart bore testimony to the truth-
fulness of the remarks of the sisters, he
spoke on the subject of charity, and showed
the way blessings are derived from being
charitable to those less favored than some
of us.
	John A. Bagley spoke of the humility of
the Savior, said his labors were among the
meek and lowly, said the sisters are per-
forming a similar work that our Savior
performed, he spoke of the evil that is
coming upon the earth through immorality
urged mothers to see that their sons and
daughters lead moral and virtuous lives.
	President Lindsey spoke a short time on
the subject of women’s suffrage, said she
was an advocate of women, having equal
rights with men. She spoke of continuing
to celebrate the seventeenth of March the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Confer-
ence was adjourned for one year by singing
“Love at home.” Benediction by John
Bagley.
JANE OSBORN, Asst. Sec.

MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ELEVENTH MEETING OF THE NAUVOO
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	PPESIDENT JOSEPH SMITH opened the
meeting by prayer; and proceeded to ad-
dress the congregation. Said Christ came
to call sinners to repentance and save them.
Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his
society. He took them upon the principle
that they repented of their sins. It is the
object of this society to reform persons not
to take those that are corrupt, but if they
repent we are bound to take them, and by
kindness sanctify and cleanse from all un-
righteousness by our influence in watching


over them—nothing will have such in-
fluence over people as the fear of being dis-
fellowshipped by so goodly a society as this.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead
people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand and watch over them in tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least
kindness and love towards me, O what pow-
er it has over my mind while the opposite
course has a tendency to harrow up all the
harsh feelings and oppress the human
mind. It is one evidence that men are
unacquainted with the principle of Godli-
ness to behold the contraction of feeling
and lack of charity—the power and glory
of Godliness is spread out in a broad
principle to throw out the mantle of charity.
God does not look on sin with allowance,
but when men have sinned there must be
allowance made for them, the religious world
is boasting of righteousness—it is the doc-
trine of the devil to retard the human mind
and retard our progress by filling us with
self-righteousness. The nearer we get to
our Hreavenly Father the more are we dis-
posed to look with compassion on perishing
souls—to take them upon our shoulders and
cast their sins behind our back. I am go-
ing to talk to all this society— If you would
have God have mercy on you, have mercy
on one another. President Smith then re-
ferred them to the conduct of the Savior
when He was taken and crucified. He
then made a promise in the name of the
Lord saying, that soul that has righteous-
ness enough to ask God in secret places for
life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three-score years and ten.
	We must walk uprightly all day long.
How glorious are the principles of righteous-
ness. We are full of selfishness—the devil
flatters us that we are very righteous, while
we are feeding on the faults of others. We
can only live by worshipping our God. All
must do it for themselves. None can do it
for another. How mild the Savior dealt
with Peter, saying, “When thou art con-
verted strengthen thy brethren,”—at
another time He said to him, “Lovest thou
me?” “Feed my sheep.” If the sisters
love the Lord let them feed the sheep and
not destroy them. How oft have wise men
and women sought to dictate Brother
Joseph by saying? “O, If I were Brother
Joseph I would do this or that,” but if
they were in Brother Joseph’s shoes, they
would find that men could not be compelled
in the kingdom of God, but must be dealt
with long-suffering—and at last we shall
save them. The way to keep all the saints
together and keep the work rolling, is to
wait with all long-suffering till God shall
bring such characters to justice. There
should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
Sisters of this society shall there be strife
among you? I will not have it—you must
repent and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure
or principle to bring the poor to repentance
is to administer to their wants—the society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save
souls. President Smith then said that he
would give a lot of land to the society by
deeding it to the treasurer, that the society
may build houses for the poor. He also
said he would give a house frame not
finished, said that Brother Cahoon will
move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the
society can pay him by giving orders on
the store, that it was a good plan to set
those to work who are owing widows, and
thus make an effort &.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

	IT is a self-evident fact a foregone con-
clusion that woman suffrage is in the air,
and the matter is so apparent that it needs
no argument to prove it; the trend of senti-
ment and of public opinion, is in that direc-
tion—humanity’s interests demand it, wo-
men see the opportunity to help in great
enterprises, in government and in many
ways, but are at a decided disadvantage
while they are deprived of the privileges of
citizenship—nothing but the ballot will
supply the needed qualification to protect
their individual and material interests, and
secure them equal rights with men.
	Justice demands it and woman in pos-
session of full political privileges will be
able to help good men to cope with the
needs and emergencies of the present time,
and to promote a greater degree of purity
and justice in law, and in the government.
The United States poses as a self-governed
nation when as a matter of fact one half of
its citizens have no voice in making or in
executing the laws by which they and
their children, and their property are con-
trolled.
	Women are as loyal to their country as
men and they want liberty on the simple
ground of abstract justice, and for self-pro-
tection: they are entitled to the same means
to make life a success as men. The wo-
men of Utah have every reason to ask that
the new state Constitution shall make them
politically equal with men; they have
borne well their part in the founding of
this territory, no man or woman denies the
fact—it is self-apparent. What have not
the pioneer women throughout the extent of
these vales endured to subdue the desert,
and make the roses blossom—the homes of
the people testify to this fact; and when the
Legislature of 1870, realizing how true and
strong for the right these women had been
passed the BILL granting suffrage to wo-
men, how gladly and proudly women came
forward to bear their share of the
responsibility; and after seventeen years
wise and judicious exercise of the franchise
it was taken from them without excuse or
apology, how grandly they submitted to
the laws which deprived them of a vested
right, because it was the country they loved
that had wrested from them this precious
boon, believing in the ultimate triumph of
right over wrong, and that when it should
be in the power of the men of Utah to re-
store to them this lost citizenship, they
would not hesitate to re-invest them with
the responsibilities so nobly used in the
past.
	As an individual and as a woman of
sane mind the writer asks for the ballot be-
cause of her love of freedom and liberty,
and because she believes she can do more
good for humanity, than while deprived of
the franchise.
	Speaking personally the writer has the
utmost faith in the justice and in the honor
of the men who have been elected to the
Constitutional Convention, men some of
them born in these mountain fastnesses,
where the very air is redolent of liberty,
reared under the direct influence of patriot-
ism, taught from babyhood, to love free-
dom and to maintain it as their birthright,
they cannot refuse their mothers, wives,
sisters, and sweethearts that blessed privi-
lege so dear to them.
	Common sense teaches woman that she
stands or falls for herself, give her then
every privilege man enjoys that she may
have self-protection, every safe-guard pos
sible to a rational human being, she has as
much interest in all that concerns home and
state and country as man has, and should
have the same opportunity to express her
opinions at the ballot box. All sensible
women who comprehend the situation want
a voice in the government under which
they live, and if it were not their right, the
needs of the present time require their help.
It is useless to add what the conditions are,
but woman’s moral and spiritual force
might give a higher tone to politics and
raise the standard of social purity of which
we hear there is such great need all over
our fair land.
	Men will not lose their respect for wo-
men because they vote, witness the
years in Utah when women voted almost
without an exception, weren’t there as
many marriages, and certainly there were
not so many divorces as there have been
since. No complaint was ever heard of
domestic broils because women went to the
polls, one or two men (unmarried to the
best of my recollection) pretended to be
aggrieved because woman had this great
privilege, but the Judges on the bench de-
cided in favor of the women, and no more
was heard from them on the subject forever
after.
	Men want the ballot for the better pro-
tection of home and property, women want
the ballot for the self same reasons. Taxa-
tion without representation is as much
tyranny for women as for men, women are
tax-payers; it is not indelicate for a woman
to go to the court house to pay her taxes,
yet she meets there the same class of men,
she would meet at the polls. 	E. B. W.


RESOLUTIONS PASSED AT THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

PREAMBLE.
	WE the women of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States, organized in the inter-
est of no one propaganda, and having no power
over the organizations which constitute the Coun-
cil, beyond that of suggestion of sympathy, hav-
ing learned that the best good of our homes and
our nation is advanced by our unity of thought
and purpose, and that an organized movement of
women best conserves the highest good of the
family and the State, banded in a federation of
workers committed to the overthrow of all forms
of ignorance and injustice, and to the application
of the "Golden Rule" to society, custom and law,
do hereby resolve.
PROGRESS OF WOMEN.
	Whereas, The years since the last session of
the National Council of Women of the United
States have opened many avenues to woman's in-
dustry; have made many changes in law and cus-
tom in her favor; have witnessed the grand
spectacle of women participating in the Columbian
Exposition in an official capacity and endowed by
the United Siates Government with equality of
power and responsibility; have demonstrated the
growing tendency in all denominations toward the
proper recognization of women in their repre-
sentation in the Parliament of Religions, and have
shown us that the advanced and truly learned
thinkers of all faiths and lands agree that there
is nothing in the spirit and essence of their re-
ligions which necessitates woman's degradation or
indicates her divinely appointed inferiority; have
been marked by a marvelous growth of organiza-
tion among women for educational reform and
philanthropic purposes, binding all classes and
climes together with cords of love for harmonious
action and finding its most perfect exponent in
that magnificent gathering, the Congress of
Representative Women, and finally, have brought
to women the full recognition of their rights as
citizens in one of our great States and in two
most important divisions of the British Empire;
therefore
	Resolved, That we rejoice in the evidences of


[Column 1]
the advancement of woman and the race and see
in them the bright forecast of the time when the
last restriction which exists in society, in the
church and in the State, to prevent woman from
the full exercise of all her powers for the best
good of humanity, will be eradicated from custom,
creed and statute
CAPITAL AND LABOR.
	Whereas the ethical adjustment of the relations
between capital and labor is a serious problem as
evidenced by the increasing frequency of strikes
and demonstrations accompanied by disorder and
resulting in incalculable loss and suffering and
	Whereas labor and capital have no natural and
permanent diversity of interests, and all conflicts
between these industrial factors are the result of
artificial conditions equally at variance with the
spirit of our republican institutions and of the
Golden Rule; therefore
	Resolved, That recognizing the fact that sel-
fishness is social disintegration and believing it to
be the duty of every patriotic citizen to give seri-
ous and candid attention to the questions involved
in economic conditions, and to use all possible
personal influence to establish society upon a
basis of love and fraternity. We, the Council,
urge that co operation, instead of competition,
should be adopted as the standard to which in-
dustrial relations should be brought. As an im-
mediate remedial measure we urge that all dis-
putes between capital and labor be referred to
National State, or voluntary tribunals of con-
ciliation and arbitration and that the whole
strength of public opinion be brought to bear to
compel such reference and the acceptance of the
decision.
INDUSTRY.
	Resolved, Since juctice requires that in all de-
partments of service, efficiency and not sex shall
be considered, we demand that the United States
Government shall set the standard for the country
by paying its employees equal wages for equal
work and by holding women equally eligible for
all competitive examinations and for employ-
ment and promotion.
EDUCATION.
	Resolved, That in the best interests of educa-
tion and as a matter of justice, we ask that wo-
men as well as men shall be elected or appointed
on all school boards in the several States and
Territories. We earnestly favor the establish-
ment at the Nation's Capital of a National
University for post-graduate study, open alike to
men and women and that women also shall be
appointed on the regularly constituted board of
control. We heartily endorse the effort to give
the youth of the country scientific temperance
instruction in the public schools. Since a
simultaneous training of the child's hand and
brain is demanded for its harmonious develop-
ment, we earnestly request all School Boards in the
United States to adopt the kindergarten method
and to combine manual with mental training as a
fundamental part of our public school system.
DRESS REFORM.
	Resolved, Since woman's dress should be
healthful, should be beautiful in its conformity to
th[-] principles of art and nature, and should leave
her a free and untrammeled factor in the world's
progress, we commend to the serious attention of
women the various designs already evolved
which meet these requirements.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE.
	Resolved, Since great suffering and injustice
arise from there being in the various States of our
country different laws governing marriage, and
divorce, we urge such legislation, State and
National, as shall secure uniformity in this respect;
and since both sexes are equally concerned in the
adjustment of these relations we demand that in
all commissions created to deal with those ques-
tions women be appointed to act co-ordinately
with men.
PHILANTHROPY.
	Resolved, That as unjust laws are still in force
in some of the states relating to the personal and
property rights of women, we respectfully ask
our country women to investigate State and
National laws and to recommend such amend-
ments as shall give to all women justice and
equity, and we urge the appointment of women
on boards of management of all correctional and
charitable institutions. We rejoice in all organiza-
tions and missions advocating an equal standard
of purity for men and women, and working for the
rescue of erring girls from a life of sin. We ask
our own and all nations to investigate causes of

[Column 2]
intemperance and to enact legislative remedies
for the evils resulting therefrom. We oppose all
forms of cruelty, and advocate education in hu-
mane principles and the abolition of the practice
of vivisection.
	Believing that the time has come in the progress
of the race when all difficulties between civilized
nations should be settled without resort to arms,
we rejoice that the United States Government
has invited the nations of the civilized world to
unite in a permanent treaty of arbitration, and
that Great Britain has taken steps looking to the
adoption of such a treaty; and
	It is the opinion of this body that a permanent
National board of Peace and Arbitration should
be added to our government, and we respectfully
suggest that a Peace Commission composed of
men and women shall be appointed and provided
for to confer with the governments of other na-
tions upon the subject of establishing an inter-
national Court of Arbitration.
RELIGION.
	Resolved, That we rejoice in the growing
unity between persons of different religious be-
liefs, as evidenced in their union in work, human-
itarian, philanthropic, and reformatory.
	We protest against persecution of any people
on account of religious belief or of unbelief, or
because of race or condition, as contrary to the
spirit and civilization of our time.
	We suggest to all religious organizations to in-
clude as part of their study, religion as applied to
the home, society, the union and life in general;
and
	We appeal to all ecclesiastical bodies to so
amend their laws, if necessary, that they shall not
in any way discriminate between man and wo-
man.
	Resolved, That we deplore the outrages com-
mitted upon the Armenians, and record our ap-
preciation of the unflinching heroism of our
Armenian sisters in sacrificing their lives in de-
fence of their honor and freedom of conscience,
and we earnestly urge our sisters in Great Britain
and other countries of Europe to use their in-
fluence with their governments that they take
immediate action to establish security of life,
honor, and property in Armenia.
	Resolved, That religion and patriotism demand
that we protest against the Russian persecution
of the Jew as an outrage against humanity and as
forcing on our shores hordes of immigrants, un-
skilled and ignorant of our institutions, who com-
plicate our industrial problems and who should
be allowed to live in peace in their own land and
that we protest against Russia refusing to recog-
nize the pass port of the United States when held
by a Jew and ask our Representatives to uphold
the honor of our country in having its passports
respected. That patriotism and humanity de-
mand that we protest against the present course
of injustice toward the colored people and the
Indians, practiced by our people and permitted by
our government.
PATRIOTISM.
	Resolved, That realizing the dangers which
threaten the nation from dense and diverse popu-
lations and from a lax enforcement of law of im-
migration and naturalization, we urge upon all our
people that they co-operate to enforce existing
laws and that they earnestly inquire what further
legislation is necessary to make them more
effective.
	We gladly invite and welcome to our industrial
life and to our educational and political privileges
all who seek homes in this country, and who de-
sire to increase their own and the general welfare
under the guarant[-]es of law. We believe that
illiteracy should be a bar to the use of the ballot
by the native or the foreign born citizen, and we
protest against the entrance upon our shores of
the vicious classes of other lands, who bring with
them influences contrary to American Institu-
tions and tending to anarchy.
	We protest against what is known as "lynch
law" since the right of trial accordtng to legal
process is a fundamental principle of justice and
liberty, and obedience to the laws of the land is
the first duty of the citizen.
	We believe that patriotic teaching in the school,
the introduction of the American flag into every
school-room in the land and its salute as the
symbol and the prophecy of peace, of progress,
of universal liberty and of equal rights under the
Constitution, would unite the nation’s children,
strengthen love of law and develop the spirit of
patriotism, which is the life of the Republic.
	We commend the American patriotic salute
known as the original "Balch Salute," which
pledges allegiance to the Fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man and the flag of our

[Column 3]
country, as the triune grace of good citizenship.
THANKS.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Council of Women of the United States as-
sembled in its Second Triennial Session, are
hereby extended to the press of the country for
the splendid reports of the meetings, which have
spread a knowledge of the Council work, and to
the correspondents, the reporters and the Associ-
ated and United Press representatives for their
work in this direction, and to the chairman of the
Council's Press Committee, Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton, for the ability, devotion and courtesy with
which she has discharged the duties of her
position.
	Resolved, That the National Council heartily
thanks Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Chairman of the
Committee on Railroad rates for the unfailing
patience and kindliness with which she has filled
a position demanding much labor and yielding
neither pleasure nor honor.
	Resolved, That the National Council extends
its thanks to its Committee of Local Arrange-
ments, and its Chairman, Mrs. Jennette N. Brad-
ley; for the efficient manner in which all arrange-
ments for the comfort of the Council members
and visitors have been provided for.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks to the
Independent Ice Company for furnishing so freely
the ice for the use of all those attending the
meetings, and to all the employees of this build-
ing, whose willingness to be helpful, even be-
yond the actual demands of their duty, has done
so much to assist the Council workers during the
past fortnight.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks for the
kind assistance rendered to the work of our
standing committee on Patriotic Teaching by the
loan of flags by Captain Wallace Foster, and by
the American Flag Company.
MEMORIAL.
	Resolved, That in the death of its patrons,
Mrs. Rosa Miller Avery, Ruth O. Delamater and
M. Adeline Thompson, the Council has lost three
whose names were valuable to it, and whose in-
fluence strengthened it in the communities in
which their lives were passed.
	Resolved, That the Council extends its sym-
pathy to the organizations which form it for the
loss during the last four years of many valued
workers from their ranks, prominent among these
being Lucy Stone, Amelia Bloomer, Mary J.
Seymour, Mary T. Lothrop, Mary A. Woodbridge,
Julia Ames, Mary Allen West, Myra Bradwell,
Elizabeth Oakes Smith, Sally Holley, Virginia L.
Minor, Marian Skidmore, Presendia L. Kimball
and Elizabeth Howard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	DIED at Pine, Gila Co. Arizona, Feb 13th,
Elisha Woodward age eleven days; infant son of
Manson J. and Emarette Fuller.
	God in love giveth, in his love taketh away,
blessed be his name.
								E. C. F. 
	MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN, wife of
William R. Brown and the first president of the
General Federation of woman’s clubs,died at her
home on Chestnut street. East Orange, Feb. 5,
of pneumonia. She was the niece of Ralph Wal-
do Emerson. Her funeral took place Friday
afternoon at 2 o’clock, Feb. 8th.
	DIED at Paragoonah Iron Co.. June 17th, 1894,
of heart disease, Sister Jane Talbot, the beloved
wife of Robert Talbot, and daughter of Dennis
and Mary Grundy. Deceased was born at Pen-
dle-bury Lancashire, England, July 20th, 1832.
She leaves a husband, one son and one daughter,
and four grand-children, and friends to mourn her
loss. Sister Talbot joined the church of Jesus
Christ in the year 1847; emigrated to Utah in 1863.
Crossed the ocean with her mother and sister in
the ship Antartic. Crossed the plains in Captain
Nebeker’s company. Arriving in Salt Lake City
Sep. 29th, and came to Paragoonah the same
year, where she resided the most of her time un-
til her death. She was a teacher in the Relief
Society for a number of years, and labored faith-
fully in that calling until sickness overtook her.
She was a true Latter-day Saint and died in full
faith of a glorious Resurrection.
		MARY E. FORSYTH, Ass’t Sec., R. S.
	DIED in the ninth ward Salt Lake City, Feb.
1st, 1895. Julia Spencer, beloved wife of Wilford
Woodruff Jr. She was born in Nephi Juab Co,
May 6th, 1856.
	She was a teacher of the ninth ward Relief


Society, filling the position till within a few days
of her demise. She was ever willing to perform
any duty assigned her, kind and generous to the
poor and helpful to the afflicted, she was truly a
mother in Israel as she assisted to rear her hus-
band’s first family. She leaves a son and
daughter of her own, also a little child whom
she adopted about two years ago, whose parents
deserted it.
	Her funeral was largely attended in the 9th,
Ward Meeting House, Feb. 3rd. Consolatory and
edifying remarks were made by President Joseph
F.Smith, Apostle John H. Smith, President
Woodruff and others. The remains of this good
woman were followed to the cemetery by her
many relatives and friends who will greatly miss
her.
							MARY MAIR.
President R. S., Ninth Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Passed from earth, in the Second Ward, Salt
Lake City, 1—o’clock a. m., Feb. 12, 1895,
Margaret C. Alder, eldest child of Elder George
D. Alder, (Supt. of the Sabbath School,) and his
wife Dean Caine Alder, aged nearly five years.
	She was the first grand child of George A. and
Lydia D. Alder, and grand-daughter of Hon.
John T. Caine and wife.
	Margaret was stricken down by the dread
disease, Diphtheria, on Jan. 31,1895, and not with-
standing, all earthly aid was rendered, nor that
her name was constantly borne to the throne of
God, in His Holy House, in earnest, solicitous
prayer, she passed away, from those who love her
well, into the Spirit Land.
	The gracious Father, “Who doeth all things
well,” called her to Himself.
	May He pour out His Spirit, upon her stricken
parents, and all her loved ones, and give them a
greater hope, in the life beyond.
	Her funeral was held the same day. Looking
like a beautiful wax flower, surrounded by white
roses and fragrant carnations, (the gifts of near
relatives,) her little white casket covered with
choice flowers from sympathizing friends, was
lowered in the tomb.
	The spot was dedicated to her rest, by Bishop
L. G. Hardy, “Till the trump of God shall sound,
when the dead in the Lord, shall rise to life ever-
lasting.”
	Many sorrowing relatives and friends, followed
to the cemetery, where with the frozen tears of
Nature gently falling on the little mound, we left
her to her sleep.
	“Farewell Margaret! Farewell! Until the set
time of the Lord! Then may we clasp you to
our aching hearts again.”
L. D. Alder.


THE WOMAN’S BIBLE.
CHAPTER I.
By Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	And God said, Let us make man in our image,
after our likeness: and let them have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the
air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.
	So God created man in his own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and female
created he them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the
earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the
fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth.
	Here is the sacred historian’s first account
of the advent of woman; a simultaneous
creation of both sexes, in the image of
God. It is evident from the language that
there was consultation in the Godhead,
and that the masculine and feminine ele-
ments were equally represented. Scott in
his commentaries says, “this consultation
of the Gods is the origin of the doctrine of
the trinity.” But instead of three male
personages, as generally represented, a
Heavenly Father, Mother, and Son would
seem more rational.
	The first step in the elevation of woman
to her true position, as an equal factor in
human progress, is the cultivation of the
reli[--]ious sentiment in regard to her dignity
and equality, the recognition by the rising
generation of an ideal Heavenly Mother,
to whom their prayers should be addressed,
as well as to a Father.
	If language has any meaning, we have
in these texts a plain declaration of the
existence of the feminine element in the
Godhead, equal in power and glory with the
masculine. The Heavenly Mother and
Father! “God created man in his own
image, male and female.” Thus scripture, 
as well as science and philosophy, declare
the eternity and equality of sex,—th 
philosophical fact, without which there
could have been no perpetuation of crea-
tion, no growth or development in the
animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdoms, no
awakening nor progressing in the world of
thought. The masculine and feminine
elements, exactly equal and balancing each
other, are as essential to the maintenance
of the equilibrium of the universe as the
positive and negative electricity, the north
and south magnetism, the centripetal and
centrifugal forces, the laws of attraction
which binds together all we know of this
planet whereon we dwell and of the system
in which we revolve.
	In the great work of creation the crown-
ing glory was realized, when man and wo-
man were evolved on the sixth day, the
masculine and feminine forces in the image
of God, that must have existed eternally,
in all forms of matter and mind. All the
persons in the Godhead are represented in
the Eloheim th divine plurality taking
counsel in regard to this last and highest 
form of life. Who were the members of
this high council, and whether a quality or
a trinity? Verse 27th declares the image
of God male and female. How then is it
possible to make woman an afterthought?
We find in verses 5-16 the pronoun “he”
used. Should it not in harmony with
verse 29 be “they,” a dual pronoun? We
may attribute this to the same cause as the
use of “his” in verse 11 instead of “it.”
“The fruit tree yielding fruit after “his”
kind instead of after “its” kind. The
paucity of a language may give rise to
many misunderstandings.
	The above texts plainly show the simul- 
taneous creation of man and woman, and
their equal importance in the development
of the race. All those theories based on
the assumption that man was prior in the
creation, have no foundation in scripture.
	As to woman’s subjection, on which both
the canon and the civil law delight to
dwell, it is important to note that equal
dominion is given to woman over every
living thing, but not one word is said giv-
ing man dominion over woman.
	Here is the first title deed to this green
earth given alike to the sons and daughters
of God. No lesson of woman’s subjection
can be fairly drawn from the first chapter
of the Old Testament.


[Column 1]
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Minking in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. West Temple Street
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

[Column 2]
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commmence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Wednesday,
April 10, 1895.
Tuition, $50.00 Residence and office 34
East 5th, South. Telephone 383.
CONFERENCE RATES,
Via Union Pacific System.
Special Hates to Salt Lake City for
the Sixty-fifth Annual Conference,
April 4th to 7th, 1895, will be
made by the Union Pacific, as
follows:

From. Rate. From. Rate. 
Laramie, $23.75 McCamon, 5.75
Carbon, 19.60 Downey, 5.00
Rawlins, 15.50 Oxford, 4.25
Rock Springs, 9.75 Cannon, ter. hn 4.00
Green River, 8.95 Preston, Idaho 4.25
Granger, 7.75 Franklin, " 4.25
Carter, 6.60 Richmond, 4.25
Evanston, 4.60 Smithfleld, 4.10
Almy, 4.50 Logan, 3.80
Mendon, 3.55
Cache Junction 3.25
Park City, 2.00 Collinston,2.75
Wanship, 2.00 Dewey, 2.50
Coalville, 2.00 Honeyville, 2.25
Echo, 2.00 Brigham, 2.00
Morgan, 2.00 Willard, 1.75
Peterson, 1.75 Hot Springs, 1.50
Uintah, 1.50 Harrisville, 1.50
Ogden 1.50 Frisco, 8.00
Hooper, 1.20 Milford, 6.50
Syracuse Jun., 1.10 Black Rock, 6.00
Layton, .90 Clear Lake, 5.50
Kaysville, .80 Oasis, 4.75
Farmington, .60 Lemmington, 4.00
Lake Shore, .50 Juab, 3.25
Centreville, .35 Nephi, 3.00
Woods Cross, .2 Santaquin, 3.25
Simpkins, .25 Payson, 2.35
Terminus, 1.50 Benjamin, 2.25
Tooele, 1.20 Spanish Fork, 2.25
Erda, 1.10 Springville, 2.10
Lake Point .80 Provo, 1.90
Garfield, .75 Lake View, 1.70
Opal, 9.60 Pleasant Grove 1.50
Ham’s Fork, 9.60 American Fork 1.35
Cokeville, 9.60 Lehi, 125
Montpelier, 9.60 Lehi Junction,1.20 
Soad Springs, 8.03 Draper, .70
Minidoka, 8.50 Sandy, .50
Shoshone, 12.40 Junction, .85
Hailey, 15.26 Lovendahl's .30 
Ketchum,15.90 Germanis, .25
Beaver Canon 12.90 Murray, .25
Market Lake, 10.35 Eureka, 3.25
Idaho Falls, 9.50 Silver City, 3.25
Blackfoot, 8.20 Fairfield, 2.25
Pocatello, 7.00 Cedar Fort, 1.95
Selling dates.—From Ogden, Santa-
quin and intermediate points, April
4th to 7th inclusive, good for return
until April 12th, and from all other
points April 3rd to 7b, good for return
until April 15th, 1895.
Special trains will be run from Cache
Valley, Ogden, Park City. Juab and
all intermediate points. See bills for
time of trains.
D. E. Burley,
General Agent Salt Lake.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOM AS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
