VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1894.		No. 12.


CONTENTS:

	He Cometh Not—A Story. Utah—Emmeline
B. Wells. National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Mrs. Ewing’s Puddings And
Sauces. R. S. Report—Ann C. Woodbury. Wo-
man Suffrage Column—L. D. Watson. Notes 
And News. Obituaries. West Bountiful.

	EDITORIAL:—The Old And New Year. Mr.
Lambourne’s New Book. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Impromptu Song-Prayer—E. R.
Shipp. A December Ditty—Alice Williams
Brotherton.


IMPROMPTU SONG-PRAYER.

			IN SOLITUDE.

O FATHER grant to me I pray
	Thy choicest, rarest blessing!
That I may be through every day
	In wisdom’s ways progressing;
That I may seek thy light divine,
	From mortal sins be free.
Let all my thoughts and hopes entwine
	Round virtue, truth, and Thee.

O Father grant to me I pray
	A victory o’er each failing,
That on that bright Eternal Day
	I’ll not be found bewailing—
Nor grieving o’er what might have been
	Had I but been more noble,
And placed my thoughts on Heavenly things,
	And not on worldly trouble,

O help me by thy powerful aid,
	O hear my prayer most fervent!
That in the end it may be said:
	“Well done thou faithful servant.”
For well I know this mortal sphere
	Is but a brief probation.
O may I then be faithful here,
	And gain an exaltation.
					E. R. SHIPP.


HE COMETH NOT.

	CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.

	IT was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing village in England early in 18—
and preparations for the usually gay
festivities were going forward; young men
and women were arranging the mistletoe and
holly in the prosperous homes of the work-
ing people, and in many of the cottages,
beer had been brewed by the prudent
housewives, who took care “the master”
should drink his good ale at home, instead
of joining his comrades at the village inn.
Everywhere it was plain to be seen that
the yearly Xmas festival was drawing nigh;
the one little Church ivy-covered outside
was profusely decorated within, and al-
ready the choristers dressed in their best
were wending their way thither to rehearse
the sublime choruses. 
	Not far from the church in one of the
most pretentious houses the village could
boast, there was bustle and confusion; the
Doctor’s gig stood by the gateway, and the
cottagers looked anxiously up and down,and

[Column 2]
inquired of each passer by, whether there
was any tidings yet from Mrs. Barton, for
the village folks were all “agate” to hear
the news; and each one wanted to be first
to carry the glad message if such it should
be (for the master was a great favorite, he’d
been “born among’em” they often said to
each other,) and there were no doubts in
their minds as to the object of Dr. Went-
worth’s visit.
	The evening grew late and still no word
came, the doors were shut, for it was bit-
ter cold, and there was sharp frost in the
air; the music from the Church rang out
clear and full of pathos;—and the village
children heeding not the cold, could be seen
in groups going here and there singing
snatches of Christmas melodies as they
threw from door to door sprays of holly.
When the hilarity had ceased and quiet
was settling down and while the Christmas
bells were ringing joyfully, nurse
Goodman came down the oaken staircase
in her soft slippers, her face beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door of the great dining room,
where the master sat by the open fire, un-
easy and restless, announced ere entering
the room “ye may’n come up n’ow Maister
Barton as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine son
born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells, and he’ll
be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he roared as
we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtain as
the Doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground, long after midnight, but at the
first gray dawn of morning the news that
an heir was born to Master Barton, flew
like wildfire from house to house. And
such a Christmas there had never been since
old Maister Barton’s time so the villagers
one and all declared. 
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, she was’nt their sort, “young
master should have wed one of the girls
from hereabouts, and not gone off to Bristol
for a stuck-up young woman, I doubt me
she’ll put fine notions into the lad’s head
when he grows up” said Mrs. Gentry to
her neighbor Janet Graham, after her first
visit to see the baby.
	“Now don’t be prophecyin evil to the lad, 
he’s to be Christened tomorrow, and Lizzie
tells me, the boy’s robe is two yards and a
half long, and the lace is old Venetian, and
his head is so thick covered with golden
curls, that Mrs. Barton told the nurse he
need’nt wear caps, (though they're all the
finest lace,) but nurse would’nt hear to it,
and our Lizzie says, as how Mrs. Barton
made herself sick a cryin and a frettin
about the caps.” Lizzie was Mrs. Graham’s
daughter, and a sort of lady’s maid of all
work to Mrs. Barton, and she was never
tired of repeating to her mother what her
mistress said and did, and Janet, as her
mother was always called, told everything
to Mrs. Gentry (with whom she never
agreed about anything however) for she had
a kind heart, and Mrs. Gentry was envious,
that young Barton had not taken to her
daughter Miriam, to whom he paid “great
attentions,” as she repeated over and over

[Column 3]
again till the whole village gossipped about
it; and “Miriam was so upset,’’ she declared,
“that she went off to her uncle’s, so’s no-
body should see she was cut up about the
marriage.” The truth was, she went away
until the gossip should die out, for she was
a sensible young woman, and young Barton
had really given her to understand what he
meant by, “the attentions,” Mrs. Gentry
talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day whoever heard the like” said
Mrs. Graham to Lizzie as the girl repeated
to her mother the scene at the Barton’s the
night before the Christening, on her visit
home afterwards. “Little you tho’t sittin
there in the Church so solemn-like, what a
fuss our young mistress had been making
with the master the night afore. Nurse
Goodman told the whole thing to me, she
would’nt think of his even having his fath-
er’s name as if Charles wasn’t a grand name,
when kings have borne it, as Master told
her; but no he must be called for her grand-
father the Admiral, and she had her way,
but I do think its a pretty name Shirley—
and nurse said as how, the master wanted
Miriam Gentry to be the child’s godmother,
and the mistress flew into a passion directly,
and she said, “Yes I’ve heard of your at-
tentions to that young woman, and a nice
scandal ’twould be if she were to be god-
mother, no, I’ve sent for Aunt Grace, and
she’ll be here presenlty,” and sure enough,
nurse said, just then the door bell rang, and
before Mrs. Barton had quieted down, Miss
Holton (Aunt Grace as she called her) had
her things off, and was in the room, and
such a flurry there was; but Mr. Barton
was as sober as a Judge, and never a word
did he say, so she had it all her own way,
and Master has scarcely spoken a syllable
in the house since."
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were and wishing them joy like that, and
she to think my Miriam not good enough
for godmother to the boy; (he’s a reg’lar
beauty for all that) and I doubt me he’ll
be as proud as a peacock, and lord it over
the workin men when he steps in his
father’s shoes.” replied Mrs. Gentry to
Janet Graham when she heard what Liz-
zie had told her mother, rehearsed to her as
soon as Janet could get time to run in; and
half the village knew the story before ’twas
a week old.
	Time went on, and the village prospered,
until it was quite a town, and Mr. Barton
who was the successor of his father and the
overseer at the Mills, grew rich, with one
invention and another, and his wife was as
haughty, as he was amiable; and as much
disliked as he was beloved. One more son
had been born to them, nine years after the
first, but he was a delicate boy, while
Shirley was strong and manly, and a greater
favorite than even his father had been.
Miriam Gentry remained single, and was
the boy’s first teacher,and strangely enough
as he grew up, he clung to her as his ideal;
which vexed his mother beyond expression;
and she contrived by all means in her pow-
er to keep Shirley from her, which only made
matters worse; Miriam had a younger sister
Charlotte who was a sort of musical genius,


[column 1]
a singer and could play the violin; and
Shirley would steal away and spend his
evenings there, singing and playing on the
flute to Lottie's violin while the stately
Miriam accompanied them on the piano.
	“He is only a boy and will outgrow this
childish love for girls so much older than
himself, I have no fears, besides he must
go to college, we can afford it.” said his
father on one occasion when Mrs. Barton
had been urging him to take some positive
measures to stop these visits.
	Mrs. Barton made up her mind that
Shirley should go at once, and set about the 
preparations; Mr. Barton was quite willing
for he felt the boy was far advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar all his teachers said, 
but knew he must undergo some discipline
beforehand, and it was finally decided he
should go to Bristol, his mother's native
City, and remain there a year under the
tutelage of a learned Professor, whom his
mother had known.
	The boy went away at last willingly;
though he had protested against going, and
had made more ado about leaving Miriam
than his own father and mother (of which
his mother was in blissful ignorance) but
his father guessed from hints dropped by
the elder Gentry, who was one of his
trusted men. The first few weeks Shirley
studied diligently and Professor Bradley
wrote glowing accounts of his young pupil
to the parents at M— but later on he in-
formed them the boy was passionately fond
of the sea, that his lessons were perfectly
learned, he had such a wonderful memory,
but his thoughts seemed far away. he was
absent-minded, and waking or dreaming it
was always the sea.
	“It is born in him and he can't help it;
undoubtedly Laura you’ve filled his head
with nursery tales of your grandfather, the
old Admiral, and you’ve hung those marine
views in every room in the house, to im-
press him with the greatness of your ances-
try; however I’ll write to Bradley to hur-
ry him off to the university, and he’ll have
something else to do than dream by the sea-
shore, his companions will cure him of idle
day-dreams,” said his father after reading
the Professor’s letter.
	“I’m sure Charles you blame me for all
the boy’s faults, its a great pity you hadn’t
married the Gentry girl, she’s no doubt
keeping herself single for you; it isn’t
enough to have won your affections,  but
she’s tried her coquetry on my boy to my
sorrow.”
	“This is too serious an accusation to
be passed over silently,” replied the hus-
band, “never mention Miriam Gentry’s
name again, I forbid it,” and Mr. Barton
walked off to his office, the first time since
his marriage, angry and in sullen silence.
	It was true he had admired Miriam as a 
sort of village sweetheart and let her know
it too before he met Laura Otway, but it
had not the ardor of true love; he had often
felt sorry that Miriam didn’t marry, but he
did not know (as men seldom ever do) that
she could never give herself to any other
man: such is woman’s love when once
given to her true mate, and yet Miriam had
never told of her constancy, it could only
be guessed by the magician's art, who un-
locks love’s secret cabinet and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time.
	Mrs. Barton fretted the live-long day,
she loved her husband, notwithstanding her
temper, and was proudly ambitious for her
son:—she wanted him to be a man of learn-
ing, high in the world’s favor; she cared lit-

[column 2]
tle for the true affection of the village
people, she seldom mingled with them; at
intervals she gave them out-door parties but
rarely appeared upon the scene herself.
Mr. Barton felt this keenly, for he loved the
people, he knew they were his true friends,
honest and loyal.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart, there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, love
to him had received a fatal wound.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than the division between hus-
band and wife. Just when the father had
been planning in his mind what changes
might take place at Shirley's vacation, a
letter from the Professor came bringing the
sad news that Shirley had disappeared, “he
has taken nothing with him, and we have
had every one of his old haunts searched,
but no trace of him can be found, we are
ourselves deeply afflicted, for he has greatly
endeared himself to us and was most
respectful and affectionate to us all, but our
hearts are much more deeply grieved for
yourself and his poor mother;” so the letter
read.
	The clerk in the office looked up as he
heard the sobs of this great strong-minded
man, his master, when he read the letter,
but Mr. Barton took no notice, “shut the
office at the usual hour, say I have gone
home, I shall not come back today,” he said
as he rose abruptly the open letter in his
hand. “You have bad news, Mr. Barton,
I am sorry, believe me, can I do anything
for you? Can I help you, shall I call a cab?
you look so broken up,” said the kind-
hearted clerk.
	“No, I will walk, the air will do me good,
besides I can think better.” Yes he had
need to think, how could he tell the lad’s
mother, she would swoon perhaps; he could
not bear to go home, he walked away into 
the fields, he remembered the sayings of
Shirley’s boyhood, “Papa I shall go to sea,
and be a great Captain, and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming
ocean.
	The twilight came on while he strolled
about the fields, and when he turned home-
ward the lights were streaming from the
cottage windows. “I must go in and tell
Laura, our boy has runaway” he said to
himself, and he hastened as one does, bent
on a hateful errand, lest he should not have
the courage if he loitered. Supper was
ready and Laura and little Richard were
waiting his coming—he knew he could not
eat, but Laura must have her tea, and he
took a cup, but his hand shook, and his
wife said, noticing his manner, “Are you
ill Charles?” “No, only upset, I shall
soon be better.” Has there been a distur-
bance at the mills, those men grow restless
towards pay day, I’ve noticed?” “Nothing
has gone wrong at the mills, I’ve had a let-
ter from Bristol, about Shirley.” “Has
he gone wrong, tell me the worst,” said
Mrs. Barton excitedly. “I can’t tell you, I
don’t know myself” and he handed her the
letter; but she did not faint, or even weep
as she read on “this is the old story over
again” she said, “he’s gone to sea undoubt-
edly, he knew we would not consent, and
so he’s gone without it. We shall hear
from him soon, when he is far away, so we
cannot bring him back, he will take no
harm, he was born to the music of the Xmas
bells; rather a sea Captain than the over-

[column 3]
seer of these humdrum mills.” Mr. Barton,
took Richard in his arms, as though for
comfort, such a frail child, and said, “we’ll
go up stairs Mrs. Barton, I must answer
this letter tonight,” and without more ado
they left the supper room.
	Mr. Barton wrote to the shipping mer-
chants at Bristol for particulars of the ship’s
crew on board the vessels that had sailed
about that time; and to the Professor to spare
no means to find out whither his boy had
gone; hearing nothing satisfactory he set
off himself for Bristol making diligent
search but all in vain.
	Christmas came but out of respect to Mr.
Barton the villagers refrained from any
public demonstrations; and indeed, the
young man’s fate was truly lamented; and
many a tear fell, whenever his name was
spoken. Even Mrs. Barton began to des-
pond as time wore on, and no news came of
her darling boy; she had been hopeful at
first, but as day after day she watched and
waited she grew pale, and sleepless, and 
finally so melancholy that Dr. Wentworth
advised the sea shore, and Mr. Barton con-
sented to her going. “I shall be nearer if
he comes back, and more likely to hear
something and you shall know im-
mediately,” she said to her husband the
morning of her departure; Aunt Grace had
come to travel with her, as Mr. Barton
could not leave his business just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be, I always said
her pride would have a fall,” said old Mrs.
Gentry when she heard Mrs. Barton had
gone, “he’ll never come back to her, he’s
dead most like, and that boy Richard will
never live to be a man, she’s punished severe
enough for looking down on them as made
their money for em.”
	“Now Bessie that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened, what does
the Bible say Bessie, read about Job, how
he was afflicted, mind don’t go agin scrip-
tur. There’s not a better man livin than
Charlie Barton, I’ve known him since he
were a weelad, and as for Shirley you can’t
say there was any evil in him.”
	“No dad I dont say anything about 
Shirley, but its the stuck-up Bristol woman,
but she’ll suffer for’t ‘pride must have a fall’
that’s scripture ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly Bessie, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Miriam has always felt
about Shirley, she’s sure he’ll come back
sometime.”
	“Well yes maybe and Lottie will be mar-
ried and gone, and she set such store by
him, and I don’t see why I should be sorry
for ’em, they’ve brung me no end o’trouble,
what with Miriam bein in love with
Charlie, as she’ll never git over it, and Lot-
tie with Shirley, I’m the one as is to be
pitied.”
	“Lottie’s love weren’t very deep I should
think when she’s sweet on Jim Graham
a’ready, and you talkin of her marryin
soon yoursel.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and done
with’t I don’t want another old maid in the
family.”
	“Better have old maids than had hus-
bands for our girls; but I’ve no objections
to Jim Graham, he’s a fine lad and a good-
ish family, and we know’em for what they
are, they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Gentry to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman but she
was not fond of “bettermost people,” un-


[Column 1]
less they were very amiable. As for Shirley
he had never once thought of loving Lottie:
but he adored her sister, who was really
old enough to be his mother; of marriage
however, he had not even dreamed.
	Three long years had gone by and no
news of Shirley Barton, of all the ships
that had sailed out of Bristol most of them
had come back heavy laden and gone out
again, but still his mother hoped on, she
had grown stronger and returned to her
home at M—and though a sort of gloom
pervaded the place, at Christmas and holi-
day times, yet usually cheerfulness pre-
vailed and the Bartons were scarce ever 
without visitors from Bristol.
	It was at Christinas time three years and
more after Shirley’s absence, and the Bar-
ton homestead was filled with Bristol
people, mostly young folks, relatives and
friends, who were desirous of seeing a
Xmas festival in a village and Mr. and Mrs.
Barton had made preparations to have as
many of the people from the mills as could
be accommodated. The dinner was to be at
five, but as the day was cloudy, lamps were
lighted early, and gaiety seemed to reign
within and without. The Gentrys and
Grahams were there, and many others from
the mills; Mrs. Barton seemed herself
again, so old Dr. Wentworth remarked to
Miriam, to whom of late he had been de-
voted; but Miriam and Mr. Barton both
seemed restless. The dinner was over and
toasts were being given, but it was awk-
ward; the guests all seemed not to know
exactly what was most fitting to propose, for
each one present realized the absence of the
long-lost son, who would have been the
life of the company; in fact the sorrow on
his account had been general.
	Dr. Wentworth lifted his glass and was
about to speak, he had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son—when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upou
the scene; fresh and blooming in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat in hand,
the golden curls tossed back, and collar
thrown open, displaying a neck bronzed with
sun and wind. All eyes were fixed upon
him, and many a glass dropped from the
hands that held them shivering to atoms,
but Dr. Wentworth came to the rescue,
(for not a word had been spoken it was like
the dead come back again) “here’s to the
long lost lad returned to gladden hearts
and home: speak Shirley to your mother
and father." Coming out of the darkness
into the brilliant light, Shirley was dazed
and he was totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he come in unan-
nounced to surprise the family, thinking it
would be only a small party, though he had
noticed the brilliant lights, but when he
saw the villagers, many whom he had
known intimately, he was bewildered and
speechless; he grasped the situation, how-
ever, and graciously withdrew followed by
his father, mother and Richard. Very lit-
tle was said, the company dispersed, the
guests retired to their apartments, and
Shirley who was much in need of rest but
could not sleep, sat long by the dusky fire-
light when all the lamps were out, talk-
ing of his adventures to the eager listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, he said, but he loved to see the ships
sail out and talk to the sailors, he was down
at the wharf, and had been beguiled into
one of the many drinking places, where a
crowd of fine, strong men were taking grog, 
before going on board a great whaling ves-
el, that was at anchor close by; he wanted

[Column 2]
to see them off, he drank with one of the
lads, a fine young fellow, about his own
age; and then went on board with him in-
tending to get ashore again very soon, but
he fell asleep, and when he awoke, all was
dark, and he could not recall where he was,
or how he came to be in such a strange
place: for he could feel the motion of the
vessel and grew dizzy when he tried to rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days on
board that vessel can never be told, the re-
morse of conscience, the mortification, the
despair; many times I prayed to die, I felt
I could never meet my father, or mother,
or any of my former friends again. We
had a fine Captain, he blamed the young
man, Ralph Rathburn, for bringing me on
board, until, I was so sorry for Ralph that
I began to be reconciled to my fate. He
mourned for me too, poor fellow, and he
tried to make up for it in every way pos-
sible. He taught me how to do my work
and I had the tact and skill necessary to get
on. We were always good friends, and no
matter where we put ashore, he would show
me around and entertain me after the true
sailor style. And sailors have good hearts
after all even though their ways are rough,
their manners uncouth, and their use of the
King’s English is beyond description.
There were many unpleasant experiences
for a fellow brought up tenderly as I had
been, but Captain Lamb noticed this and
gave me the easiest places and, as you see,
I improved so rapidly, and displayed so
much courage, and such an adventurous
spirit at times, that he promoted me, when
our mate (who was not over strong at the
beginning of the voyage) was quite unable
to keep on duty; and I cannot say but my
great grandfather having been an Admiral
in His Majesty’s service had something to
do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Shirley’s return were on the most magnifi-
cent plan ever known in M—and the
whole village was in a state of joyful ex-
citement. The very garb he wore was a
decided attraction to the young people, we
who live in this day and in an inland
country know comparatively little of how the
sailor dress fascinates people especially the
young. Scores of girls fell in love with
Shirley Barton, and he was jovial and
courteous with them all, but there were
three who were so much enamored of him
that they watched with envy and jealousy
the attentions he bestowed on others and
especially one, who as they put it, “couldn’t
compare with those in his own vicinity.”
She was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive
to her own sex, (who were for the most
part envious of her) notwithstanding her
plain appearance and her poverty, yet the
young men admired her, she could talk
well, dance well, and her voice was
singularly pathetic.
	“Think of Shirley Barton being en-
gaged to Miss Morton and he has only
seen her twice,” said spiteful Susan Del-
more to her two friends Octavia Willis and
Eugenia Somers, the trio they were called,
all well to do, and girls of style and the tip
top of society in M. they boasted on oc-
casions that their fathers were not in Mr.
Barton’s employ, but in business, and their
mothers had never worked for their living
not even as governesses, in fact they were
well connected as the world goes.
	But be this as it may, Shirley fell in love
at first sight with Miss Morton; his mother
fretted and fumed, but all to no purpose,
his father said nothing, but allowed him to

[Column 3]
do as he pleased. Finally when it became
apparent that the young man was deter-
mined to marry the girl of his choice, if he
could persuade her, which was not such an
easy matter, and after Mrs. Barton had used
her utmost endeavors to dissuade him from
it, and implored his father to forbid the
marriage, (which she declared was partly
due to the interference of Miriam Gentry)
“who seemed ever her evil genius,” she
said, she consoled herself with thinking it
would keep him at home, and she took the
first opportunity to advise him to bring Miss
Morton to the house. By much persausion
and entreaty she at last consented to “beard
the lioness,” so to speak for she was in
mortal dread of Mrs. Barton.
	Once within the Barton home Shirley
never left her for a moment, lest his mother
should frighten her away, for she was as
timid as a bird, and almost as fragile. Mrs.
Barton looked her over and inquired
minutely into her pedigree, every now and
then, saying “Humph so he was your
uncle, she was your grandmother,” with
anything but an approving manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morton, Mrs. Bar-
ton was more obstinate about the marriage,
"she has no sort of family reputation to fall
back upon, she is only a village girl for all
her fine manners and attainments; I wish
Shirley you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes, and the
girl is really not of good family, go to
Bristol and prepare for college under Profes-
sor Bradley, he will take you back again,
you may marry among the best, your
father’s wealth is an inducement for any
girl and you will surely regret it if you take
this child, without either money or ances-
try.” “But Mamma she is lovely, she sings
like an angel,” said Richard, “I love her
more now than Shirley, I wish I could mar-
ry Eleanor myself no one should hinder
me.” “Who told you her name Richard?”
enquired Shirley. “She told me, and said
could call her sister and I will in spite of
Mamma who dislikes her and she knows it,
besides she’s not so much in love with
Shirley, its only his imperious manner, and
she hopes to win him over to love home and
the country and leave off sea-faring which
will make him coarse, and wean him from
those who love him so devotedly.” “O, is
this all little man,” said Shirley, “we shall
see what this young woman can do anon.
I am not jealous of my little brother but no
one else must interfere. I must be the sole
possessor of this lovely village maiden, who
is without anything to recommend her, save
her innocence and purity.”
	And they were married within three
months at the little church in E—where
Eleanor Morton’s parents were born and
had died. Mrs. Barton would not con-
descend to witness the ceremony though
the young people came home as soon as the
wedding was over.
	One year of love’s sweet young dream;
and of intense sorrow too for the bride, and
she fled from the home that was unbearable
to her sensitive nature, to Miriam Gentry
for protection. She would not go to her
grandma, to burden her with sorrow, father
and mother were both dead, she had not
brother or sister; Mrs. Barton had made
her life unendurable; she had professed
everything and fulfilled nothing. “Such a
child, she can never be really a wife or a
mother.” Richard pined for her society al-
most as much as Shirley himself—“Let her
be ’ said Mrs. Barton “she’ll come back of
		[Continued on Page 221.]


HE COMETH NOT.

	[Continued From Page 219.]
her own accord, but if you go after her
Shirley coaxing her she’ll be trying the
same thing again doubtless,” Richard was
positively forbidden to go, but Mr. Barton
advised Shirley to take a house separate
from his mother, as she would never con-
sent to any of the family, visiting Miriam
Gentry. ‘‘Poor little woman” said the
kind-hearted man, she needs sympathy now
and Miriam is overflowing with kindness
and love, she is the very person to whom
one can go with trouble. The only one
my boy who never gave you up when you
were away so long.”
	Eleanor would not write to Shirley, he
had tried to defend his mother to his wife,
and had made matters worse, and so the
young wife waited, weeping and hysterical.
	‘‘A pretty scandal this will make” said
Mrs. Gentry to Miriam “taking in Shirley’s
wife, I have no patience with such non-
sense.” “Hush mother for pity’s sake,”
said Miriam, “she will hear you, her ears
are so quick to catch a sound,” but it was
already too late, she had heard and felt the
sting; and trembling in every limb and
weak from excessive grief, she put on her
hat and cloak disguising herself as much
as possible went down the garden walk and
was away upon the high road, long before
any one knew she had left the house.
Miriam was not aware of it until she went
into the room with a dainty lunch to try
and tempt her appetite. When she saw
the room deserted she felt positive why she
had fled, but without one word put on her
own things to try and find her. The search
was vain and she sent her little brother
with a message to Shirley but Mrs. Barton
intercepted the note, and though the young 
husband was nearly distracted, the mother
did not relent. When Miriam found
Shirley took no notice of her message and
did not come, she waited for the dawn of
day and commenced inquiries on her own
account, before noon Mr. Barton had heard
that Eleanor had gone away alone no one
knew whither. For the first time in his
life Shirley was severely reprimanded by
his father, and Mrs. Barton who heard the
stinging rebuke, said placidly, “She’s gone
to her grandma whom she adores more than
any one in all the world.” Before she
could say more Shirley had left the house
forever. I will find her dead or alive he
soliloquized why have I been so foolish,
Miriam must know I’m going in search of
her, and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked towards the station and mailed it to
Miriam expressing the wildest love for his
wife and the strongest friendship and grati-
tude to herself.
	Young Mrs. Barton had taken a night
train for Bristol and gone to that large city
instead of going home, in fact she could not
go direct, not even by coach, she had
thought of walking but was too weak to
undertake it, and the idea of self-destruc-
tion had never entered her mind. She was
not without money and had brought with
her all her jewelry. Shirley went to Bris-
tol, too and from one inn to another for he


[column 1]
felt she would not tell her grandma of her
unhappiness as she had warned her against
marrying a young man fond of the seas.
	Shirley found his wife at last, found her
in the great seaport, Bristol, he had searched
one whole week, and left no method un-
tried, she was suffering greatly from over
anxiety and worry and a Doctor had been
called by the woman in whose house she
had taken lodgings. Shirley was wild
with joy, and yet tortured with mental
pain, lest serious harm would come to her
after all; she scarcely realized how matters
stood so unstrung were her nerves, and so
over excited her brain. “Send for her
mother,” the physician had said when call-
ed in; and the mistress of the house had
answered, “she has no mother, but she is
married, see she wears a ring.” 
	“Then call her husband here im-
mediately,” was his reply, but before many
hours had elapsed he came. 
	Shirley dispatched a note to Miriam
Gentry, only these words “Come without
delay, Eleanor is very ill, she may die,”
signed “Shirley.” Miriam was soon there
and in charge, and very shortly after a babe
was born and the pale, sweet child-mother
called her Miriam from her birth. Eleanor
was happy now notwithstanding what she
had suffered, and recovered speedily.
Shirley was anxious to take her back to
M——but she said “No! Never! take me
to E——to my grandma now, and I will
try to be content.” So Miriam, Shirley, and
baby set off in the stage coach one cold
morning and were put down at Grandma
Morton’s door not many hours after; the
old lady’s delight was exhilarating when
she saw the happy party arrive: she had
heard nothing of the troubles of her
darling. “No more parting now, I shall
never dare lose sight of you again,” said
Shirley, when he saw the love she expressed
for her grandma; but he did not measure
his own strength correctly; Miriam believed
in him, so did Eleanor; but his resolves
were vain; he was too near the sea; his
mother reproached him with ingratitude,
and Richard was lying ill nigh unto death,
“leave Eleanor with the nurse and come to
us,” his mother wrote. But Shirley could
not, he worried was perplexed and rest-
less, “the sea will bear me away out of all
this, Miriam will look to baby and Eleanor,
I will go aboard a merchantman, a few
months voyage around the Meditterranean,
and when I return all will have settled
down to quiet." And so he sailed away for
a few months leaving Miriam in charge of
all his household treasures. Grandma was
there too and Nellie as he had endearingly
called her since her illness, she seemed
such a child, had consented to his having a
change, besides he must earn money, he
would not accept it from his father while
his mother declared that unless he returned
to M——with his wife and child he should
never have a penny with her consent, his
father had remitted sufficent to pay all ex-
penses so far and even more, but Mrs. Mor-
ton was poor and his wife must have
delicacies. And Shirley sailed away brave
true-hearted and strong intending to return
in a short time. At first all went well,
Miriam went back to M—and answered all
the numerous questions of neighbors but
Mrs. Barton would not condescend to in-
quire. Mr. Gentry informed the elder Bar-
ton his employer at the first opportunity
giving him full particulars, which he repeated 
to Richard, promising to take him to see

[column 2]
the baby and Eleanor as soon as he was well.
Richard grew worse and his mother becom-
ing really alarmed wrote to Aunt Grace at
Bristol to come; and to try to get Shirley’s
wife to allow her to bring the baby, in fact
she wanted the child; and added “do per-
suade Eleanor to give the baby to me. then
she can help herself I hear they are very
poor.” Mrs. Barton wanted possession of
the child; then to influence Shirley to return
home if possible, and she cared not what
should become of the little mother. Miss
Holton went to E——and interviewed
young Mrs. Barton, but to no purpose.
She was respectful but firm, “upon no ac-
count would I give my child into her keep-
ing, I would rather beg my bread from
door to door.” Miss Holton was amazed
when Eleanor’s grandma came in to be in-
troduced, to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of years before,
and many reminiscences were recalled to
each of those mature women and the day
was a pleasant one after all. When Aunt
Grace arrived at M——Richard was sinking
rapidly, but as soon as she could she told
Mrs. Barton, “Eleanor comes of a fine old
Bristol family, her grandmother was at
school with me there one of the most charm-
ing girls, married a brilliant officer, a wid-
ow now with a moderate income and as
grand as a Duchess in appearance.” “But
the child Aunt Grace, can I have her? I
shall be left childless you see, Richard can-
not live.”
	It was hard for Aunt Grace, who loved
her niece to see her in grief, but she must
speak plainly, “No Laura you never will,
have that child unless the mother should
die.”
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Barton home; a mound
in the churchyard was all that remained of
the frail child so beloved; there was no tid-
ings of Shirley, nor of his young wife and
babe. Aunt Grace stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Barton of household cares and comfort
her, in her great affiction, and Mr Barton
plunged into his business affairs trying to
drown his sorrows.
	Years went by and but few changes came,
Eleanor lived on, some letters had come,
full of more adventures and extended
voyages at sea, but as Shirley sailed from
place to place, stopping only at seaport
towns, her letters so full of love and hope
never reached him; “He cometh not” she
repeated over and over when alone; and he
began to despair; he wrote to his mother,
telling her he was now Master of a vessel
Captain Shirley Barton asking her to give
him some news of his wife and child; but
she never even sent the message to them
and this was the last ever heard from him
direct. Long years after when little
Miriam was grown to womanhood and
Eleanor had made for herself a competence,
an honored name, though a fictitious one,
by her pen. Miriam Gentry always faith-
ful learned from Mrs. Barton, (who now that
her husband was dead, no longer feared
Miriam’s influence) that Shirley was dead.
Miriam determined to unravel the secret
which had been kept from his wife and
child, and she succeeded; by means of win-
ning the confidence of Aunt Grace now al-
most in her dotage.
	It was Christmas eve twenty years after
the date of Shirley’s return to M—— and
Miriam a confirmed old maid over forty.
Her sister Lottie had half a dozen children
and Mrs. Gentry had past away. Miriam
kept her father’s house; she had made up

[column 3]
her mind not to write to Eleanor but to go
on a visit to E—— leaving her father in
Lottie’s care to have Xmas with the
children; there was sure to be a happy party
for Mr. and Mrs. Graham and Lizzie (who
had married well) with her husband and
little ones would be there, so Miriam set off
arriving at E. the day before Xmas. As
soon as affectionate greetings were over be-
tween the two. “My Miriam has had
strange forbodings and peculiar dreams,”
said Eleanor to Miriam Gentry, “I hope
your coming is the fulfillment, I feel that
something must be pending, and I dread
any great change. my grandma’s death,
though sad for us, has left us independent,
I am going to take a long rest, perhaps go
out to India, I fancy some way that Shirley
is there.” Miriam Gentry sighed, “Why
do you sigh surely you have no news of
him or you would have written?” Miriam
scarce knew how to tell the story she had
come to unfold. Eleanor saw it in her ex-
pression, and said, “Miriam is the news
you bring good or ill, tell me qnickly?”
“Neither but very important especially so
to Miriam. Her father died years ago, and
she is the only heir to Mr. Barton’s wealth.”
“Go on” said Eleanor “I can bear all now
nothing more can come to me from him, I
always feared he would not come, it is all
over now.”
	“Yes he died true to you Eleanor and
hoped to come to you—died in far away
Bombay on Christmas eve, so young not
yet thirty and you still hoping and teaching
Miriam to love him.”
	“How do you know all this, and are you
sure? He cannot be dead, Shirley Barton
my baby’s father dead and we not know it;
so strong, and me so frail, and still alive,
through all these weary, dreary years of
mourning. I will not believe it until I
have the proof.”
	“A sad Christmas for you and Miriam but
alas life itself is sad and full of mysteries.”
	“Indeed Miriam, but there are true hearts
and noble souls and you have proven one
among a thousand, stay with me always
Miriam you loved Charles Barton and
Shirley for his sake, we will share all with
you if you will stay with us, we need you
most,” just then the younger Miriam
entered the room her golden curls and fair
brow so like Shirley’s, “O Aunt Miriam
here, how lovely, I dreamed of her last
night, that she brought us precious jewels
so dazzling and brilliant that our eyes were
blinded with tears, and when we opened
them again, the casket of jewels held only
pale ashes.”
	“It is true ‘ashes to ashes’ our jewels of
love and memory have turned to ashes, and
Miriam brings today instead of ‘Peace on
earth,’ Peace to his ashes, far away, your
father sleeps in fair Bombay. But ere
another year rolled round the estate was
settled, and Miriam, Eleanor and her fair
daughter knelt at Shirley’s grave, strewing
it with flowers on the next Christmas Eve.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1894.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.
	
	THE year is nearing its close, and brings
with its departing days thoughts of what
has taken place, or perchance of what might
have been happier times, had one only
realized the importance of the actual present.
Are we better for the experience gained?
We are apt to ask ourselves. Have we
materially improved in excellence in any
one virtue? Are we more charitable, or
 more sympathetic? Have we reached out
and broadened our sphere of action? What
have we done for the betterment of human-
ity? Every individual person who is
actuated by correct motives in any degree,
must naturally pause and consider as the 
year grows old, some one or more of these
natural individual questions.
	Looking at the dear old world as it is
(for after all it is a good world made beauti-
ful for the human race) one cannot help be-
ing meditative and contemplating seriously
life in its various phases, as one after an-
other the years roll on filling up the period
of mother Earth's great age; and noting the
many great changes in material things
that from time to time make the sum of pro-
gress far beyond the general expectation, 
though scarcely realizing the ideal of those,
who see far into the future. The little
that one alone can do seems too insignificent
to be considered, in contrast with what is 
going on daily, the world over, and what is
expected of the mass of mankind. And 
yet each one adds something, if it be only
a deed of kindness, a word of encourage-
ment to the desolate, a prayer for the sor-
rowing; any sweetness to the bitter
cup which many fellow-mortals have dealt
out to them in overflowing draughts. The 
brave heart, the generous soul, helps by its
very courage to stimulate another. It is 
not all in giving, there are other expres-
sions of one’s goodness besides the bestowal
of gifts, be they ever so acceptably offered.
	In this matter of fact age it is barely
possible we lay too much stress upon
material things; we have come to consider
money or its equivalent, necessary to hap-
piness, and yet our Savior said, “take no
thought for the morrow.” “Consider the
lilies of the field” etc. There are many
who will say, we must not take this in its
literal meaning; but is it not true that man-
kind at the present are passing through
what must inevitably be called “the mon-
ey age," the greed for money is really so
decidedly uppermost. So far as money
serves a wise purpose, and is not the master
instead of the servant, it may be well, but
when it takes the place of all sentiment,

[column 2]
when it is worshipped, then is the world in
danger of bankruptcy of all that is best for
humanity. Conscience, purity, upright-
ness, virtue, true love, reverence for the
highest and most sacred things, all those
are, in many instances, lost sight of in the
race for gold and some saving principle
must needs be brought to bear, to turn the
tide, and save the world from ruin that to
the highly spiritual mind seems imminent.
	It is good that time is marked off in
periods, that there is an old and a new year,
when a portion of the people will stop and
think of the past and the future. It is
glorious to have such days as Christmas and
New Year’s, when one thinks of “peace
and goodwill,” and when there is a greater
flow of love in human hearts, and some-
times forgiveness of each other,and reconcilia-
tions and memories come back that make
us tender and devotional.
	It may be possible there is too much feast-
ing and merriment, and too little that is
elevating in tone and character. Music
especially, sublime and sacred music, seems
always the proper expression of the deepest
and most reverential emotions of the soul;
the nearest akin to the divine element in
one’s nature, ,and yet how little of it one
hears nowadays on such occasions. The
Psalmist said, “A song of praise is a prayer
unto the Lord.” Long ago in the homes
of the people hymns were sung at prayer
time, they were a part of the family wor-
ship morning and evening. In how many
homes is that good old custom observed
now? Very few perhaps, but it has for the
most part gone out of fashion.
	During this year just past think of the
desolation and destruction made by cruel
war—nation against nation. And the
many terrible calamities that have befallen
people, and cities and islands made desolate
have we not here in Zion in the vales of the
mountains, reason to be grateful to our
Father in Heaven for his protecting care
that has been over us?
	In the New Year about to dawn the
people of Utah anticipate a great change
from the limited conditions of a Territory to
Statehood and it is the proud hope of every
true citizen that wisdom from above may
guide those who have been delegated to
frame the new constitution and that the
whole people men and women alike may
thereafter enjoy the full rights and privileges
of citizenship.


MR. LAMBOURNE’S NEW BOOK.

	THE new book just issued for the holidays
by Alfred Lambourne resident of this city
and widely known here and elsewhere,
author, artist and story teller is beautiful
enough in the quality of paper, type and
binding to please the most fastidious taste.
The book has been brought out in Boston,
and is artistic in every respect. The story
is of the Rocky Mountains, our own dear
snow-capped everlasting hills, and is grace-
fully and tenderly written, and most ex-
quisitely illustrated. The book as a whole
inside and out, is suitable for the most
elegant drawing-room, or library table, and
withal the tale is graciously intermingled
with lofty sentiments and purity of language.
The title befits the subject, and blends
harmoniously with the pen sketches, and
characteristic pictures “Plet A Christmas
Tale of the Wasatch.” The characters are
true to life, and the descriptive parts of scenery
and of incidents, are most delightfully


written, although some are very pathetic.
To those who have lived in the mountains
it is intensely realistic, and to the lovers of
a good story well told, it must have great
attractions. The author has given much
time and labor—to the preparations of this
work of his mind and brain, and it is to be
hoped that lovers of fine art in composition
and material finish, will appreciate the book,
and that it will find ready sale among this
class of people. Authors write for the
future as well as the present: but the
publishers must be paid, if the writer lives
on dreams and fancies of his own vivid
magination, or starves in a garret as many
have done.
	The citizens of Salt Lake who talk so
much of home industry should also
recognize home talent and give full value
to the work of the brain, as well as the
work of the hands.
	Meantime let us hope in good faith, that
the book may sell well and the author
realize his great labor has been a financial,
as well as an artistic success. There are
many people in the community who can af-
ford expensive luxuries, and in good books
one is sure of returns for money invested.
if it were possible to say more for the book,
the writer would gladly do so, but the story
must be read to be appreciated, and one
does not like to know the contents of a
book beforehand, as it spoils in a great
measure the pleasure of the reader.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RELIEF SOCIETY matter also W. S. A.
minutes are crowded out of the present
number of the paper to make room for the
Christmas story, but will come in after the
holidays.
	THE new blanks for Relief Society Re-
ports and also new books for keeping ac-
counts properly, are now ready and for sale
at the Deseret News Office. Every Society
should have these new books, which are so
perfectly adapted to the use of the Society
and have been prepared expressly for that
purpose. Send and get them at once.
Remember that each Society should report
the entire year 1894 from January 1—to
December 31—and the Secretaries of each
Stake prepare one for the General Secretary
to reach here before the middle of February
1895.
	MISS PHOEBE COUZINS, of St. Louis, the
famous lawyer and lecturer of National
reputation will be in our city now very
soon and will probably give one or two
lectures while here if satisfactory arrange-
ments can be made; Miss Couzins is a silver-
ite and has decided views of her own in re-
gard to general public questions, and is
fearless in expressing her opinions, that is
she has the courage of her convictions.
The women of Utah owe her some grati-
tude for speaking publicly against their
disfranchisement and at a time when our
people were most unpopular. We hope the
ladies of Salt Lake will show to Miss
Couzins during her stay in this City they
have not forgotten her able defense of the
Utah women in times past, and will show
her kind attentions while she tarries in our
midst, that she may carry away with her
pleasant recollections.


MISS AMELIA E. BARR is in Europe,
where she will spend the winter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
				UTAH.
REPORT TO CONVENTION FEBRUARY 1894
   
	THE year 1893 was so much of it de-
voted to the Columbian Exposition that
there is less to report of actual suffrage
work. But we might truthfully say that
the entire tendency of all that was accom-
plished was in that direction. Utah may
be justly proud (among other things) of her
silk exhibit made in the Woman’s Building
at Jackson Park. This industry per-
manently established will help women in
the future to become self-supporting, and
will also be remunerative to the territory as
well as to the producer. Recently the com-
-mittee of women, who prepared the silk
exhibit for the World’s Fair, formulated a
petition and had it presented to the Leg-
slative Assembly (now in session) asking
for a bounty on cocoons, and a bill has also
been introduced urging the granting of the
same, the ladies having appeared before
committees where they had the opportunity
of speaking upon the matter as a woman’s
measure, which practically illustrates the
need of representation by means of votes as
well as influence.
	The interest taken by the women of the
territory in the work of the present Legisla-
ture clearly proves that they are becoming
conscious of the needs of the hour. In
several places the W. S. A. officers have
called a special meeting to consider ob-
jectionable bills, and have prepared and
adopted resolutions protesting against exces-
sive taxation and other things of which
they disapprove This public expression
of opinion shows that women are fully
awakened to the injustice of being governed
without their consent, and taxed without
representation.
	In consequence of the financial depres-
sion caused by the depreciation of silver
and subsequent closing of silver mines in
this Western country, women citizens in
Salt Lake City, called a mass meeting,
which was held July 27th, and prepared a
memorial to Congress and had it numerously
signed, setting forth the facts in an able
manner, and asking for favorable legisla-
tion on the silver question; the addresses
were patriotic and telling. This meeting,
which was crowded to overflowing, was in-
directly a step towards suffrage, for many
of those present realized how much more
potent the effort would have been had these
earnest women been voters. The foremost
women of the movement had never given
the question of the ballot any serious
thought.
	The women of Utah are powerless to a
certain extent, and cannot have the same
enthusiasm in the suffrage cause, knowing
that a law of Congress took away the fran-
chise, and therefore the Legislature, how-
ever willing, cannot restore it until Con-
gress revokes the act or Utah becomes a
state.
	The present Legislature has presented a
bill proposing that one or more women
(a minority) shall be appointed on boards of
education, insane asylums and reform in- 
stitutions. The bill passed the House and
is still pending in the council.
	October 5th the annual convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah and election of officers
was held, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, the
very able and efficient President, resigned
on account of ill health. Mrs. E. B. Wells
was unanimously elected by ballot to fill the
vacancy. Mrs. Wells offered a resolution

[column 2]
to the effect that because of Mrs. Kimball’s
faithful and diligent labors in the interest
of the association, she should be made
Honorary President for life; which was car-
ried by the entire assembly.
	In August the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and the Utah W. S. A. gave a lawn
party, at which time (as on many other
occasions) the whole tendency was in favor
of suffrage. Hon. George Q. Cannon, for
many years delegate to Congress from this
territory, delivered an eloquent and forcible
address on the subject.
	An assembly of women under the
auspices of the Territorial W. S. A. was
held February 3, 1894, and was very largely
attended by both men and women; the ob-
ject being to awaken an interest on the
question under consideration and give to
passive and indifferent people some sound
and wholesome reasons for the faith and
hope of the believers in woman suffrage.
Logical and vigorous speeches were made
by both men and women, Hon. John E.
Booth, of the present Legislative Assembly,
making the principal address.
	We are very much blessed here in having
a woman’s newspaper in which minutes of
meetings of the W. S. A. in all parts of
the territory appear from time to time, and
there is always a woman suffrage depart-
ment especially devoted to information on
this important subject. The Deseret Eve-
ning News and Salt Lake Herald (the last a
morning paper) (dalies) are always willing
to publish news of importance for the suf-
frage association and are on the right side
of the question. Besides these city papers
there are a dozen or more newspapers,
weeklies and semi-weeklies, in the several
counties, willing to publish any matter
favorable to the cause. So as far as press
notices go, we are well supported. Our
new Press Committee this year are young
women—Miss Mary M. Wells, chairman—
and we feel confident of their ability to do
good work in this direction.
	I have tried to ascertain how large a pro-
portion of the taxes in the territory are paid
by women, but have only succeeded in
gathering reliable information from one
county, where it is stated 45 per cent, of
the tax is paid by women who own their
own homes or are property holders, yet
have no vote or voice in controlling mat-
ters pertaining thereto.
	The sixteen counties where auxiliary as-
sociations have been organized, are general-
ly holding regular meetings and doing good
work; the advice given them this year has
been to ask permission to meet with the
county boards of education and get practical
ideas and knowledge of the methods of
action, so as to become familiar with the
rules and regulations of procedure in such
work, as in all probability the positions on
school boards will be the first offices to
which women will be elected when the
franchise is extended to them.
	Our semi-annual convention will be held
in April, at which time we hope to be able
to give such instruction and information as
may be received from the general conven-
tion at Washington. We have great
anticipation for the present year, realizing
as we do, most emphatically, that whether
women are ready or not for the ballot,
universal suffrage will soon be accorded to
the women of this nation; and it behooves
all who have the matter at heart to be
diligent in season and out of season, to
create a public sentiment favorable to wise
action in the premises, when the long looked

[column 3]
for opportunity shall arrive. Success to
the honest endeavors of all who are laboring
with zeal and enthusiasm in the cause so
dear to the heart of humanity.
	Respectfully submitted,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

	IN accordance with a resolution passed at
the last meeting of our Association in
Washington, the Twenty-seventh Annual
Convention of the National-American Wo-
man Suffrage Association will be held in
Atlanta, Georgia, in De Give’s Opera
House, January 31 to February 5.
	The object of these conventions is to


educate women into a knowledge of their
rights and duties as citizens of a republic,
and through them to arouse the nation to a
sense of the national wrong perpetrated by
the disfranchisement of half the people of
the United States, in opposition to the 
principles of government declared by our
laws and constitutions.
	While Colorado's full enfranchisement of
women, in 1893. is encouraging, the defeat
of the suffrage amendments in New York
and Kansas, in 1894, shows how largely
men still fail when called upon to put in 
practice the principles they enunciate.
	Though twenty-six States have granted
some slight concessions to women citizens,
in no States of the Union, save Wyoming
and Colorado, are women yet admitted to
the dignity of equal rights in citizenship.
In only Six States of the Union are mothers
conceded to be legal owners of their own 
children.
	Such being the sad and shameful state of
affairs, it behooves all lovers of justice to
rally at the call to speed the next step in
human progress—the full development of 
the mother of the race, the greatest factor 
in the coming civilization.
	Presidents of State Suffrage Associations
from thirty-five States, together with many
famous lecturers, will take part in the Con-
vention programs.  Among those expected
are, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, of Pen 
nsylvania; Lillie Devereux Blake, of New 
York; Carrie Lane Chapman Catt, of Iowa;
Caroline E. Merrick, of Louisiana; Alice
Stone Blackwell, of Massachusetts;
Josephine K. Henry, of Kentucky; Dora
Phelps Buell, of Colorado; Elizabeth U.
Yates, of Maine; and Mary C. Francis, of 
Ohio.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.								223


MRS. EWING'S PUDDINGS AND
		SAUCES.

	SIMPLE and inexpensive puddings and
pudding sauces were the subject of the lec-
ture at the cooking class last November. A
delicious apple pudding with sauce can be
made for an ordinary family, Mrs. Ewing
says, at about 3cts a dish. Butter a pan
and dust it with salt; have alternate layers
of  apples (peeled, cored and quartered) and
bread crusts which have been soaked in cold
water, having the first layer of apples and
the last of crusts; then over the top spread
a layer of bread crumbs which have been
moistened with melted butter; dust with a
tablespoonful of sugar, sit in the oven and
cover; allow the cover to remain for half an
hour and then remove it. Serve this with
hard sauce made as follows: Cream half a
cup of butter at a time, a cup of sifted pul-
verized sugar. When these have been
thoroughly mixed together add a table-
spoonful of cream and flavoring to taste.
	Mrs. Ewing is so gentle and easy about
her cooking that it seems more a pleasure
than what most of us have considered hard
work, and this is due to the things she is
anxious to impress upon the ladies that if
rightly done it is a fascinating employ-
ment.


M. STEPHANE MALLARME, the French 
poet, suggests that the publishers of books
on which the copyright has expired should
be compelled to pay a small royalty into a 
fund for the benefit of needy authors.  Ex.


R. S. REPORT. 

ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	ON the 23rd of October President Anna
L. Ivins with her counselors, left St. George
to visit the eastern settlements of the St.
George Stake of Zion.
	We went to Leeds and held meeting at
eleven o’clock, Sister Anna Wilkinson pre-
siding, we had a very good meeting, the
sisters manifested a disposition to keep up
their meetings regularly.
	We proceeded to Toquerville, met with
the Relief Society at 7 p. m. Sister Louisa
Naglye the former President having moved
away, we reorganized with Sisters Eliza
Ann Slack as president, Susannah Bring-
hurst as first and Sister Stapley as second
counselors.
	On the 24th we proceeded on to Virgen
City where we met at eleven o’clock with
the Relief Society. Sister Jepson resigned
her position as first counselor to Sister
Sariah Workman the President, after giving
Sister Jepson a vote of thanks, Sisters
Mary Ann Beebe and Ella Hilton were
chosen as first and second counselors to the
president in the Relief Society. We went
on to Grafton, meeting convened at three
o’clock President Ballard was quite feeble
but felt refreshed, and strengthened by
meeting with the sisters. Proceeded on to
Rockville, where we spent the night at
Bishop Hircshe’s.
	October 25th we met with the Relief
Society of Rockville and had a good turn
out; the sisters feel well and enjoy the meet-
ing s very much; at the close of the meeting
Sister Daley president of the Primary
Association brought in her resignation. We
were very sorry to have her resign, as she
has been very faithful, we gave her a vote
of thanks, and honorably released her.
	At the close of the meeting we returned
to Toquerville; at six p. m. met with the
Primary Association and had an interesting
time with the children. We spent the
night with Sister Susannah Bringhurst. On
the 26th we traveled on to Harmony and
held meeting at seven p. m. Sister Maria
Pace presiding, had a very nice meeting
and a very comfortable house to meet in.
	On the 27th we arrived at Pinto and met
with the Relief Society at three p. m. at
Sister Mary Knell’s home on account of her
poor health. President Ann Knell presid-
ing. On the 28th we returned home hav-
ing traveled 145 miles and been absent six
days.
					ANN C. WOODBURY.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
	
ADDRESS READ AT PAROWAN W. S. A.

	I CONGRATULATE the ladies of Iron
County in organizing a branch of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association here. I con-
sider that it is a step in the right direction
and taken none too soon.
	Having always believed that the measure
of knowledge possessed by women marked
the standard of intelligence of coming pos-
terity, and believing as one has said “that
they who rock the cradle rule the world,” I
have looked forward with great hope to the
time when woman unfettered by the
shackles of caste that man in ignorance and
superstition had placed upon her, should
take her place beside him in the grand

[Column 2]
phalanx of might that is moving for the
development of humanity, and the enfran-
chisement of a world, and with joy and
satisfaction we would behold the rising star
that heralds the dawn of that golden era.
	For everywhere those who share the bur-
dens and responsibilities of the government
are demanding a voice in saying what those
burdens shall be, and woman is asking to be
recognized as man’s equal, and man in turn
is anxious to bestow upon her all rights
and privileges enjoyed by himself.
	The many sensible women of the day
who are earnestly pleading the cause of
right and equality under the law, seek not
to step from the sphere that nature and
nature’s God has placed women in, but are
contending nobly that woman in her sphere
can understand the laws of progression and
development of the human race, the science
of government even, and the principles that
must necessarily underlie the superstruct-
ure of all good laws, as well as man, and
so understanding, is just as capable of
reaching a helping hand to the fallen, and
to have a voice in organizing society as he,
and here in this land of liberty, where the
people are the true sovereign, that woman’s
voice as well as her sympathy should be
heard and felt.
	The questions of the hour (especially here
in Utah,) are not so much to contend for equal
rights under the law, for that seems now to
be almost an assured fact; many influential
honest men elsewhere as I have said, are
anxious to grant to women all she demands
and more, and we know that there cannot
be found in any land or clime, men who re-
spect women more, or who cherish her well
being with a greater love than the men of
Utah. Hence woman’s destiny and great-
ness in Utah with the help of noble men,
and the ballot in her own hands; and with
joy I can congratulate them and and wel-
come the solemn obligations and responsi-
bilities that will soon be theirs, and well I
know that woman will guard well that
great trust with a jealous care, and that she
will achieve a greatness that will light her
path of glory, and rest as a halo of light
upon happy homes.
	The lessons of to day for both male and
female are to prepare ourselves for the
future that we may be prepared to bear the
burdens of a commonwealth, and to the
time when woman shall cast her vote for
the safety of her home and the nation. I
am not reckoning without my host, in the
glorious future, that has already been
hallowed by the sacrifices of noble ones,
and is awaiting like a love-lighted beacon
the presence of the brave and the true,
when Utah, though long rejected by the
builders, shall take her place at the head of
the corner,—Utah’s interests will be trusted
to woman, and to man equally.
	Then under the glory of statehood on a
higher plane and without the political spite,
that now disturbs us, we will make Utah,
“The glory of the land and a beacon light
to the world.”
L. D.WATSON.


MISS BEATRICE HARRADEN has been
asked to write a serial for the Century, but
refused. “I do not like serials,” she said.
“It is a bad arrangement for both author
and reader. The effect of the story is lost
when it is read by piecemeal, through
several months. The reader is disap-
pointed or loses interest, and the writer is
misjudged.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	T. B. ALDRICH left Boston October 4 for
a trip aronnd the world. At last accounts
he was at Yokohama, Japan.
	MISS AGNES REPPLIER has left London
and when last heard from was in Vienna,
en route for Constantinople, Greece, and
Egypt,
	MISS KIPLING, a sister of Rudyard
Kipling, has gone into literature. She is a
Mrs. Fletcher, but Kipling is a better name
to conjure with.
	BRET HARTE has published more than
thirty volumes and writes at the rate of two
a year. He passed his fifty-fifth birthday
last August.
	MRS. A. L. WISTAR, whose translations
of the stories of E. Marlitt and other Ger-
man writers have brought her so much
fame, is having a cottage built at Northeast
H arbor, Me.
	MRS. KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN is soon to
be married to George Riggs, a young busi-
ness man of New York. They were to-
gether last summer on a coaching party in
Wales. This will not interfere with Mrs.
Wiggin’s literary career.
	HERR BJORNSTJERNE BJORNSON, who
is at present staying in Tyrol with his
family, intends to spend the winter in
Rome. There he hopes to finish “a great
social drama” upon which he has been for
some time at work.
	AFTER Victor Hugo died more than
10,000 isolated verses were found scattered
about his room, written on little slips of
paper. He used to write incessantly, even
while he was dressing himself in the morn-
ing.
	EMILE ZOLA, according to his biographer,
writes four printed pages in the Charpentier
edition of his novels every day. This is
his task; he never writes less and he never
writes more, stopping at the end of the
fourth page even if he is in the midst of a
sentence.
	THERE is a time to be born, and a time
to die, says Solomon, and it is the memen-
to of a truly wise man; but there is an in-
terval between these two times of infinite
importance.—Richmond.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be few and
well chosen. Like friends, too, we should
return to them again and again—for, like
true friends, they will never fail us—never
cease to instruct—never cloy.—Joineriana,
1772.
	EQUITY in law is the same that the spirit
is in religion, what every one pleases to
make it. Sometimes they go according to
conscience, sometimes according to law,
sometimes according to the rule of court.---
Selden.
	WHOEVER feels pain in hearing a good
character of his neighbor will feel a pleas-
ure in the reverse. And those who despair
to rise in distinction by their virtues are
happ[-] if others can be depressed to level
with themselves. Franklin.

[Column 2]
	F. MARION CRAWFORD will shortly
build a fine summer residence on the
property he has recently acquired near
Hanover, N. H., his wife’s birthplace. In
spite of foreign birth and residence, Mr.
Crawford regards himself as an American
citizen, and will hereafter spend his sum-
mers here.


A DECEMBER DITTY.

	THE holly, oh, the holly!
	Green leaf and berry red.
	Is the plant that thrives in winter
	When all the rest are fled.
	When snows are on the ground,
	And the skies are gray and drear,
	The holly comes at Christmastide
	And brings the Christmas cheer.
	Sing the mistletoe, the ivy,
	And the holly bush so gay,
	That come to us in winter—
	No summer friends are they.

	Give me the sturdy friendship
	That will ever loyal hold,
	And give me the hardy holly
	That dares the winter’s cold;
	Oh the roses bloom in June,
	When the skies are bright and clear,
	But the holly comes at Christmastide,
	The best time o’ the year.
	Sing the holly, and the ivy,
	And the merry mistletoe,
	That come to us in winter
	When the fields are white with snow.
ALICE WILLIAMS BROTHERTON.
Hearth And Hall.


OBITUARIES.

JANE ANN BOWN.

	Sister Jane Ann Bown, wife of William Bown,
departed this life at 2:20 p. m. December 11, 1894,
at Fayette, Sanpete County, Utah. The cause of
her death was congestion of the lungs, being sick
but nine days.
	Sister Bown was the daughter of John E. and
Mary Metcalf, born March 15, 1834, at Hull, York-
shire, England. She was baptized July 9, 1850,
was married in January, 1855, emigrated to Utah
the same year, lived in Salt Lake City a short
time, then moved to Springville, Utah county,
where they lived until 1861, when they were called
to go to Dixie, and settled in St. George. Brother
Bown was released from that mission on account
of his health; came to Fayette in 1865, where
they have resided up to the time of her demise.
	Sister Bown has been president of the Relief
Society from its first organization, over twenty
years ago. She has also acted as president of the
Primary Association since October, 1891. She
has ever been faithful in these associations, and
not only has she been active in her official duties,
but in ministering to the sick and needy in our
midst. She was the mother of ten children, and
had also twenty-two grand-children. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and was much beloved
by all who knew her. She leaves a husband, six
children and a large circle of friends to mourn
her loss.
	The funeral was held on the 13th at 12, noon
and was largely attended.
COM.

Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	IT becomes our painful duty to inform you of
the death of our esteemed sister, Mary Ann
Francis Lisonbee Rubey. She departed this life,
at Circleville. She was born in Pickens Co.
Ala., Feb. 27, 1837, and was married to Alfred
Rubey, June 26, 1854.
	Shortly after her marriage her husband deter-
mined on emigrating to California. While enroute
they heard the gospel preached and California
lost its allurements for them. They determined
to cast their lot with the Saints of God, and Sister
Rubey remained faithful unto death.


She was the mother of eleven children of whom
six survive. She presided over the Circleville
Relief Society for four years and was esteemed in
her official capacity. Beloved of those who knew
her she now rests in peace awaiting the
resurrection of the just.
LODEMA C. RUBEY.
Washington, Utah, Dec. 4, 1894.


WEST BOUNTIFUL.

Editor Woman’s Eponent:
	THINKING perhaps you will give the following
space in your valuable paper we take the liberty
of addressing you in behalf of our Relief Society.
This society is a small one, only about thirty-three
members enrolled, but all, or nearly so, are good
energetic workers. Our meetings are quite well
attended, and we are trying to obey counsel in
storing up wheat, so that when the time comes,
as we expect it will, we shall have something to
give, at least a few of God’s creatures who will
come to Zion for safety.
	At present we have no poor in our ward, and
can truthfully say that we do live in the land
Bountiful. But all is not pleasant sunshine with
us, for death has stepped in and taken one of
our most faithful and useful sisters,—LUCY DARK
MUIR.
	Sister Muir was born in England October 16th
1838, and died August 3rd 1894, being nearly
fifty-six years old. She has been a teacher and
leader among the young people, devoting herself
earnestly to their interest. She was counselor in
the Primary class, Secretary to the Relief Society,
and President of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Association. She had for many years
led the young ladies class in Sunday School.
	As Secretary of our Society, Sister Lucy was
ever at her post, willing to do good to others,
always ready to give counsel or answer questions
on any subject; she had a smile and a kind word
for all who met her, and in losing Sister Muir
from our circle, we feel that her chair will be
ever vacant until that great day when all circles
will be completed. Ever praying for the welfare
of the Sisters in Zion we remain, Yours Truly,
MARTHA FACKRELL, President, JANE PACK,
Vice President, ZILLA GRANT, Secretary.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
		       Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K. THOMAS


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
