[Vol26 | December 1939 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: CORSAGE Parsons]
—Beatrice Rordame Parsons. The Last Line By Lella Marler Hoggan MARTHA drew a hairpin from the soft graying knot of hair at the nape of her neck and tipped open the thin envelope that the postman had delivered. She inspected its contents carefully. "Merciful heavens!" she gasped, 'It can't be so.
There must be some mistake." Her fingers trembled as she removed her glasses, wiped them on the hem of her crisp apron, and again examined the letter. It was her name all right and the proper address. It seemed impossible, but there it was in plain words that artyone could read. The clock on the mantel struck ten. The autumn sunshine was streaming across her kitchen table. The air was heavy with the odor of sweet spices from the kettle of apple butter simmering on the stove. Yes, her senses confirmed the fact that she was awake and in her right mind. She really had won one hundred dollars for the last line of a limerick. She could hardly wait to tell the good news to some one. But Sam had gone to the mountains hunting with some of his friends and would not be back for another week, and their daughter and three sons all lived in distant towns. It would not be exactly kind to be babbling of her prosperity to her neighbors. Widow Johnson never had any money for luxuries. And sour old Lem Flinders, the war veteran, did not want to hear of anyone's good fortune while he was hobbling about in penury waiting for the adjustment on his lapsed life insurance. No, she would wait until Sam got back to break the glad news. So she put the check in her gray silk purse and slipped it under Sam's pillow on their bed.
Several times during the day she went in and opened the purse to make sure the check was still there. One hundred dollars was a lot of money to spend just as one pleased.
What would she do with it? All through the years she had treasured in her heart unfinished dreams and plans that for lack of a few dollars were still waiting to be completed.
What a thrilling experience it would be to bring about a realization of some of these longhoped-for things. DURING the next few days Martha spent hours planning, figuring, measuring. She made a trip to town where she priced materials, matched colors, and wrote down lists of suggestive purchases.
Then one morning just as she opened her eyes, it came to her like a flash. Why hadn't she thought of it long ago? Why not use the money for Christmas? One hundred dollars for Christmas! It would be magic. It would be more than magic. Why it would be the dream of a lifetime come true. Her thoughts ran riot. 'There was Sam and the children and grandchildren and friends to be made glad. Oh it would be a glorious adventure, nothing less. Out of all her planning, however, she did not make a single purchase. And when Sam reached home at the end of the week she had not even 812 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cashed the check. Sam was tired, dusty and bewhiskered, and his usual even temper was somewhat ruffled. "Cold as blazes in the mountains," he growled, "and not even so much as a deer track in sight." But oh, it was good to have him home again, thought Martha. He soon had his chores finished and was shaved, bathed and into clean clothes. The hot appetizing meal was ready for the table, and he noticed that his plate was turned down. 'Tired as he was, his curiosity was at once aroused. It had been a family custom throughout the years to save the little happy surprises for meal time. It might be a gift or a joke or some cheerful message that was concealed under one or more of the plates, but no one lifted his plate until after grace was said. And so after they had offered thanks for the food, Sam's twinkling eyes met Martha's animated gaze across the steaming food.
With his hand on his plate he waited. "What'll you bet I can't guess the first time?" he bantered. "IT don't gamble," her face was beaming, "but you'll not guess this time, not even in a dozen guesses." "Dried venison," was Sam's hazard. "It must be dried venison considerin' the luck I had on the huntin'" trip." He lifted his plate, and the letter addressed to Martha was revealed. He held it up questioningly. "Read it," she urged. "A hundred dollars! A hundred dollars!" he kept repeating, after he had read the letter. "Why glory be, Marthy, you've saved the farm!" "What do you mean 'saved the farm'?" "Why the taxes, Marthy, the taxes. 'This will make our fall payment and tide us over till we can sell the hay or the grain." All of the joy went out of Martha's face, just as if an eraser had rubbed off every vestige of gladness. "Oh yes, the taxes... To be sure."
Always there was the taxes. Why hadn't she remembered?
Without a word she went to the small desk in the living room and endorsed the check and passed it to her grateful husband, but her attempt at cheerfulness during the remainder of the meal was a dismal failure. She was relieved when Sam finished eating and went into the living room to glance through the newspapers that had come while he was away.
Being alone would give her a chance to think things over and to adjust her mind to her changed financial situation. Sam, tired from his trip, fell asleep in his chair before he had finished the first paper.
Martha aroused him patiently, and without ceremony he undressed and tumbled into bed. He looked so tired and deserving, she observed.
Soon his regular heavy breathing echoed through the quiet rooms. WHEN Martha retired, she slept fitfully.
Once she awakened with a start and reached for the gray silk purse. Her hand touched Sam's cheek, and then she remembered. She had companioned with the precious check for so many days that it brought an empty feeling to her heart to know that it was gone. It was like losing a friend. She recalled gloomily how time and again in the past they had saved money for some special purpose, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 813 then a crop failure from some cause or another had occurred, and their precious savings had gone to pay the taxes. The hailstorm had taken the grain in the field the same fall they were married, making it impossible for them to go on a honeymoon trip. The money they had saved for the trip had to go for taxes.
That was more than forty years ago, and they were still waiting for that honeymoon tour. Not that they needed such a trip, far from it; their marriage had been one long honeymoon. But she could not help recalling that the tax payments had _ caused many a heartache. She tried to put the whole sorry thought of it out of her mind, hut over and over like a rhythmic chant of bitterness and disappointment the words repeated themselves, "a hundred dollars for taxes—the Christmas money for taxes", until finally she could stand it no longer.
Slipping out of bed, she tiptoed into the kitchen, put on a robe and some house shoes and walked out on the porch.
Everything was so silent as she stood there in the white moonlight and gazed across the broad acres. The fields of stubble and the empty trees told of the garnered harvest. The stack of hay back of the barn, grain in the granary, boxes of red and yellow apples, and long shelves of bottled fruit and vegetables in the cellar, attested the summer's labor and the winter's store.
They had spent practically all of their married life here. Sam had helped to build the house, and they had moved in just a few weeks before Diana was born. It seemed only yesterday that they had packed up and left his father and mother at the old ranch house up in the valley. And yet Diana's children were growing up now. Why Bonny Lou, Diana's daughter, was married last year. The greatest joys of their lives centered here. The rooms of the old home were hallowed with a wealth of sacred memories.
Every foot of the land bore the marks of Sam's toil-worn hands. The quiet beauty, the soft stillness of the night, soothed and comforted Martha. It brought to her an acute realization of the fact that this farm home was something that money could not buy. No price was too great to save it for themselves and for the ones who would come after them. It was more than a farm—it was a sanctuary.
Awed and grateful, she went back to her bed. In the darkness of the quiet room a deep content carried her into untroubled slumber. THE next morning she began all over again to make her plans for Christmas. 'This time she would plan a Christmas without money. She was not going to let a paltry hundred dollars spoil the most blessed day of the whole year. One did not need money to commemorate Christmas—at least not much. She would dip deep into her own life.
Surely she had garnered treasures enough to share with others for one year. She would make this one of the most beautiful Christmas seasons they had ever known.
Weeks went by, and cold autumn skies were clouded with a flurry of snowflakes as winter made its appearance.
Soon the fields were covered with a soft mantle, undulating drifts swung out along the foothills, 814 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the streams were locked in ice.
Martha did dip deep, even as she had promised herself. In memory she went back into the years, and out of the hallowed drama of the past she materialized many fleeting memories: Recipes of old favorite home dishes, booklets containing the children's pictures and their funny little sayings and doings, maxims and slogans that had been household jokes during the years, choice poems, bits of humor and philosophy, souvenirs they had loved and treasured.
Then there were relics and heirlooms of value and beauty. Why not pass some of them on to the children this year? Sam gave his enthusiastic approval and helped Martha to pack the boxes.
They included in each box cartons of home-grown popcorn and dried sweet corn, bottles of crystal clear honey, and bright luscious apples.
When they began addressing the boxes and parcels, they were puzzled as to where they should send Bonny Lou's remembrance. "We had better send it with Diana's," was Martha's decision. "I think Bonny Lou and Bob plan on getting home for Christmas." "Well, if they're not already there, they'll never make it for Christmas, unless they go around, and that means an extra hundred miles. No one has tackled the pass since the big storm last week." "Well, let us hope that they're already there." "But if they should be too late to get through the pass, Marthy, don't you suppose Bob would bring Bonny Lou here?" "Yes, I'm sure he would. But Sam, suppose they should get caught in the storm out in the mountains. Why if anything should happen to that darling girl—"' Martha's eyes filled with tears, and she choked up unable to say more. "Nothin's goin' to happen to her, Marthy. The road is not open, so they'll not be startin' through the pass. Don't you worry." "Sometimes I wonder if I don't love that girl too much," and she wiped her eyes gently. "Now Id like you to tell me just how a person would go about it to love an only granddaughter too much." "She's sure got a big place in our hearts, Sam."
They decided to send Bonny Lou's parcel with Diana's things.
