[Vol26 | December 1939 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A Song In The Woolsey]
A Song In The Cabin By Maryhale Woolsey THERE was a streak of gold in the western sky, mirrored thinly in the gray lake across the valley. The clouds overhead hung cold and threatening, lower than an hour ago; against them the rims of the mountains were less sharply defined. It would storm before morning, Libbeth told herself. And it would be snow, if she did not mistake this clean nippy tang of the air. Snow!
Winter at hand again! Well, it was nearly December; the fall had been beautiful.
Libbeth sighed, thinking of another winter in the cabin—the new house so nearly ready, yet they had to wait!
Drawing her dark warm shawl closer about her shoulders, she leaned against the side of the cabin and turned her eyes from the west to the north where, a little higher up the hill slope, the new house stood. It had a good stone foundation, walls of adobe, thick and snug, bright shingled roof, a small porch by the front door and a lean-to entrance at the back.
Four big rooms there would be, with space for two more "some day" up under the gables—such a comforting thought after the years in a two-tiny-rooms cabin!
Libbeth stretched out her arms, as if the very thought of spaciousness impelled her to reach out and ease-cramped muscles. It had been such a long time in the cabin. So many reverses had come, as if placed in their way to try them further—as if they had not borne trial enough for their devotion to the Gospel, even before coming here. One loss after another, disappointment after ment! It didn't do much good to remind herself that many of the brethren and sisters who were her neighbors had suffered even more. Sister Abbie Hemmer, for instance, who had come in the early fifties, had known many hardships which Libbeth and Arden had not known, coming as they had over a now well established route almost free of such dangers as had confronted the earlier pioneers. No, thinking of that didn't do Libbeth—in this mood—much good. It seemed only to intensify that rebellious questioning within her. Was it really worth the while, the sacrifices, the struggles, the giving up of comforts, pleasantries and niceties of living such as she had formerly known?
Back home in Ohio there were still the ease and loveliness she had grown up in... Was it possible that less than seven years ago she had been that happy, carefree girl she now remembered so wistfully?
Seven years— an incredibly short time to have contained such an eternity of experiences! Oh, she was tired of toil and anxiety and an unending caravan of deprivations, tired of two small rooms in a cabin; tired of odors of food cooking on a broken stove, smell of wash-suds, fresh milk and new cheese, of ripened fruit demanding attention....
Libbeth caught herself up sharply. She wouldn't think of these things as being always so disagreeable as they had been recently. Ardisappoint- 822 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE den would be deeply grieved if he should learn the things that were in her heart.
Arden had no regrets for his sacrifices, and he, too, had given up much. It had seemed little enough, at first—a privilege to give up home, friends, position, even family, for the sake of the Gospel. Of all their intimate circle, they two only had been converted to Mormonism. The sentiment of their community had been bitterly antagonistic. Jervis Mead, Libbeth's father, had tempestuously opposed Libbeth's and Arden's interest in the Mormons: "Tf you join them," he had said, "T'll want never to lay eyes on either of you again. Nor shall your mother, if I can help it..." So it had been. Once, Libbeth believed, her mother had made an effort to see her.
Coming home one evening, she thought she detected a faint fragrance in the room, a perfume Alice Mead always wore. Her mother had been there; perhaps she would come again... But she had not come again.
Soon thereafter, Arden and Libbeth had come West to the city of the Saints.
They would have a new home there, in the thriving new community; they would find opportunities among others who shared the same beliefs, the same ideals.
Almost from the first, disappointment had been: their lot. One of their four horses died mysteriously; another Arden had lent to a fellowtraveler who had a similar misfortune. It had been necessary to lighten their load, so they had stored part of their furniture at Fort Laramie. Libbeth's cabinet organ had been among these, and there had never been money to spare to bring it on. She missed the organ particularly; she had loved her music.
Would she ever be able to play again, she wondered? Her fingers were growing stiff from lack of practice and from the hardening toil. THE streak of gold was fading fast, the shadows deepening. Her ear caught the sound of wagon wheels approaching. Little Ardena heard them, too, and ran down the hill to meet her father and ride home on top of his load of wood. Libbeth's heart lifted somewhat, as it always did at his coming, as if just his nearness shifted some of her burdens onto his stronger shoulders. She felt almost abused when Arden, after supper, went out with a lantern to hitch up the horses again. "T have to go to town," he said. Shortly, she thought, as if he feared she might ask questions. "I'm...
Making home unpleasant for him. If I lose him, too, if his love should grow cold... I could not bear it. And I should deserve it, too, for my moods and discontent.
