Dressmaking at Home. By The Two Sarahs. There are two splendid reasons why dressmaking should be an established fact in every home. We get from good authority the startling fact that 85% of the income of the nation is spent by women. What can mother and daughter do to lessen the high cost of living? Understand the art of dressmaking and apply it in the home. We learn to do by doing, and develop a confidence in our own powers of making and, even creating the clothes we wear; and if we persist in doing dressmaking for the family, we not only save large—and we may say in many cases unnecessary—expense bills, but we are growing and developing ourselves. I was led to admire very much, one day recently, a pretty silk waist made and worn by one of my lady friends. She was proud of it, but had one bitter regret, that she had not made the same effort twenty-five years ago, how different would have been the results. Having worked during that time in the office or store, she reckoned she had spent at least $150 in waist-making. Fancy the financial satisfaction, had she been wearing home-made waists all that time. The first essential is reliable patterns. If one cannot rely on the ones she may buy, let her get a good dressmaker to take her measure and draft one. Materials suitable for the season is a big consideration. A good quality of cloth keeps its shape, holds its color, and will often turn and may be remodeled to good advantage. Before making over old material, be sure the garment is worth while. If it is to be ripped apart, remove all stains first, for it is care, afterwards, the seams will stretch. Rip seams with great using a sharp pen knife. If the goods to be renovated is of silk texture, brush with a whisk. If woolen, shake well and brush with a piece of old flannel or broom. Sponge black silk on both sides with spirits of wine, hang out doors until nearly dry, cover with white tissue paper, and iron lightly with a slightly-warm iron. Buttons are again being used. "Fortunate the woman who has saved her buttons and pieces of expensive trimming." Buttons of contrasting color are promised for the new tailored suits. In waist-making, be particular regarding the fit of your collar; it means comfort and good beauty, and good style; finish the collar with flat ruching or silk cord— white is always 
 softening to the face. We note, with pleasure, the return of the pretty, dressy jabot. Be careful in the setting of your sleeves. Long ones are again in vogue, and are made to fit snugly from the elbow to the wrist. Stout women should always have the lower sleeve, from elbow to wrist, fit closely. It has a good effect for such figures. One may finish the wrist with a neat cuff, or ruffles of soft lace. The new waists have a simulated closing seam down the back; in some, the waist line is creeping up. Very short indeed are most of the new skirts; all are wide — very wide — considering the extreme narrow ones of a few months ago. All women hail the return of the wider, more modest skirt. The conservative will choose a length from two to four inches from the ground. The skirt never looks well unless perfectly true around the bottom. A great help for the home dressmaker is an inexpensive device for this purpose, which may be purchased at almost any store. A braid is a splendid protection for the skirt; use belting for the waist-band, and be very precise, in the finishing of the placket. The writer once was urgently requested by a buyer of a large department store to suggest to our sex the necessity of inventing something that would keep this unseemly gap in the back of the skirt closed. The best thing known of is to sew on, about one inch apart, the small snaps of best quality with strong cotton thread, or small hooks and eyes — plenty of them. Sew them on close together. All bias seams should be neatly bound with narrow tape or strips of lining on the bias, to keep in shape. If one can afford an artificial form to fit and drape the gowns on, it will be found very helpful. Many use the pillow to fit the waist or basque on. We all desire our clothing to have a pleasing, artistic effect. So, in carrying out the design of a dress, it is as necessary to stay with the pattern, to get the best results, as it is for an architect to build according to forms and plans. By practicing economy in the home, we may assist very materially in feeding the hungry, clothing the desolate, and comforting the distressed. The Relief Society women are heartily in favor of the movement, among some of our leading American women, for simpler, more becoming, and truly modest designs in women's clothes. It was said by Shakespeare that "apparel oft proclaims the man." And dress does exert an influence, a great influence upon the character.