Circular of Instructions To Officers and Members of the Relief Society. These instructions and suggestions have been prepared by the General Board in response to a very extended call for such help. New stakes and wards are constantly organizing and old ones are reorganizing; missions are calling for suggestions and instructions in our work; and while we would not wish to lay down fast rules about matters of procedure which may change with years and other conditions, we can still formulate some definite plans and give some detailed suggestions that may prove of great value to officers and members, alike. Modes of procedure, plans of operation vary and change from time to time; but principle, law and truth, these go on forever. We have endeavored to observe this distinction clearly in the preparation of this little hand book. The spiritual part of all our work must forever be the dominating feature thereof. We can add all the good and precious educational and intellectual principles thereto that we may desire; but uppermost always is the principle of true religion undefiled— to visit the widow and succor the distressed. This little circular is sent forth with an earnest hope that it will help all and hinder none. May the Lord add His blessing to this labor of love. PLAN OF CIRCULAR. 1. Name. 2. History— Genesis. 3. Object and Aim. 4. Organization— Officers: President, Counselors, Secretary, Treasurer, Teachers, Choir Leader, Organist, Librarian. 5. Membership. 6. Meetings and Conferences— Order of business. Decisions of the Presidency form Constitution. Officers Meetings. Weekly Meetings should be the rule. Day— Tuesday. Missions may provide other studies. 7. Guide Work— Lines of study. All lessons are necessary. 8. Funds — Charity. Membership Dues. Stake and Ward Expense Fund. Special Funds— Wheat. Building. Genealogical and Temple Work. Missionary. Library, etc. 
 COMMITTEES AND MINOR ACTIVITIES. 9. Nurse Class — How conducted. Requirements for entrance. Duties and benefits. 10. Public Health — Summer Guide Lessons. Civic Improvement. 11. Temple Clothing — For Current Use. Burial Clothes, General, Local. 12. Relief Society Home.— Cafeteria — Object. Location. Employment Bureau. 13. Insurance— Object. Beneficiaries. Agents. 14. Special Missionary Work — Aim and Purpose. Prevention, not Reform. 15. Magazine — Woman's Exponent begun by Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine, our organ. Price, Size, Object, Lessons, etc. 16. Annual Day — Object and mode of observance. OFFICIAL NAME. The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Society is national and even international in its scope and activities; when referred to in cities outside of Utah it is known abroad as the National Woman's Relief Society. HISTORY. On the 17th of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith invited some sisters to meet in the Masonic Hall, in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. Eighteen met, and he taught them how to organize themselves into an association of philanthropy and mental and moral culture. There were present with the Prophet, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor. The officers chosen were: President, Emma Hale Smith; Sarah M. Cleveland, First Counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Second Counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Secretary; Phebe Ann Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Elvira N. Cowles, Treasurer. These officers remained until the martyrdom, when the exodus to the West temporarily interfered with their organized work. A house and lot was given by the Prophet to the Society, donations were collected and disbursed regularly. The Prophet and his associate brethren often met with the sisters and taught them the principles of truth and eternal progress. During the short period of two years, the Society increased to 1,275, and the recorded receipts were $415.24. Considering the impoverished condition of the people, this was a liberal showing. A few ward organizations were operative in Salt Lake City, 113 CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS during the early years of our settlement in these valleys. But shortly after the return from The Move, in 1858-59, Sister Eliza R. Snow was commissioned by President Brigham Young to go into the wards and co-operate with the bishops in organizing branches of the Relief Society, adding that she was to take Sister Zina D. Young to assist her towards effecting a general reorganization throughout the Church. Twenty years after, the first Stake Relief Society organization was made by President Brigham Young himself on July 19, 1877, in Ogden, just one month before his death, Sister Jane S. Richards being called to preside as President of the Weber stake Relief Society. Three years later, the many branches and stakes of the Relief Society were gathered under one general head by President John Taylor (who succeeded President Brigham Young in the Presidency of the Church) on the 19th of June, 1880, and that great leader and organizer, Eliza R. Snow, was appointed as the General President, with Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her counselors. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was secretary, and Mrs. M. Isabella Home was treasurer. Sister Snow officiated as the leading woman in the Endowment House during all the years that temporary House was in operation. Eliza R. Snow, assisted by Zina D. Young, Phebe Woodruff, Jane S. Richards, M. Isabella Home, Sarah M. Kimball, and Emmeline B. Wells, Elizabeth Howard and others, organized ward and stake divisions of the Society throughout the Church during her life time. Sister Snow also assisted President Young to organize the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association— first known as the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association, and later, under President John Taylor, organized the Primary Association. A corps of teachers was a part and parcel of every Relief Society, and 
 during Sister Snow's administration, many features of the work which have since accomplished great things were introduced and made permanent. Among these were the Senior Retrenchment Society under Mary Isabella Home, the suffrage movement, which was headed by Sarah M. Kimball, the grain saving movement, with Emmeline B. Wells at its head, neighborhood nursing, the silk movement, with Zina D. Young as leader. This included the planting of mulberry trees, growing of cocoons, and the manufacture of raw silk into cloth. Women's co-operative concerns were organized, Relief Society houses were builded, the Woman's Exponent was started, and the study and writing of books was encouraged. Stake, ward and general conferences were instituted, ward roll and minute books were devised, local, stake, and general reports were prepared, while Sister Snow and her assistants traveled constantly, visiting old branches and organizing new ones in the wards and stakes. The Relief Society was in a splendid condition when the death of Eliza R. Snow occurred, Dec. 5, 1887. At the April conference, 1888, Zina D. H. Young was appointed General President of the Society. She continued with the work along the same lines which had been followed so thoroughly and effectively by her predecessor. During her administration, the nurse class work was instituted under Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and this, too, was made a permanent feature of Relief Society activity. The sweet, affectionate spirit of Aunt Zina — as she was lovingly called — was a particular feature of her regime. Faith, love, charity, and obedience to the priesthood, were the fundamental features of her life, and this spirit permeated the Society while she lived. The general officers at that time were Zina D. H. Young, with Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Sarah M. Kimball as her counselors. Sarah M. Kimball had been secretary for some years, with Dr. Romania B. Penrose as assistant secretary and Emmeline B. Wells as corresponding secretary, and Mary Isabella Home, treasurer. During a portion of that time Aunt Zina occupied the dual position of President of the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple and General President of the Relief Society. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young died August 28, 1901, and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was appointed General President Nov. 10, 1901, and for nine years she continued in this office with gracious dignity, at the same time holding the office of President of the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple. She, too, carried forward the work in the spirit and genius with which she had been familiar since its inception, she being a charter member of the organization in Nauvoo. The counselors to Sister Smith were Annie Taylor Hyde and Ida S. Dusenberry, with Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, Clarissa S. Williams, treasurer. It was during the administration of Sister Smith that mothers' class work was introduced, largely CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 115 through the instrumentality of Counselor Dusenberry, assisted by Counselor Annie T. Hyde. This new phase of Relief Society work appealed to the sisters, and although no unified system of study was arranged by the General Board, still the stakes prepared suitable and excellent outlines on subjects best adapted to their various conditions and localities. During this period, also, the Bishop's Building was erected, to which edifice the Relief Society contributed thousands of dollars, that they might have permanent quarters in that building, and here, therefore, their offices were opened in December, 1909. President Bathsheba W. Smith died Sept. 20, 1910. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells was appointed General President of the Society, October 1, 1910, with Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith as her counselors, Olive D. Christensen, secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, assistant secretary, and Emma A. Empey, treasurer. Mrs. Christensen resigned in August, 1913, because of ill health, and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was made general secretary. In September, 1913, Mrs. Susa Young Gates was made corresponding secretary. The Woman's Exponent continued during the years, being the accredited organ of the Society, although not owned or controlled by the Society. President Emmeline B. Wells carried on her labors in this field of activity as secretary and editor, and at last as president and editor, until March, 1914, when the Exponent ceased publication. During the four years of Mrs. Wells' presidency, all of the old interests have been carried along steadily. A number of younger women have been added to the General Board and new fields have been developed for Relief Society workers. Among these may be mentioned, the opening of a Relief Society Home, the introduction of a Guide, with unified study outlines; the regulation of conference dates in connection with the labors of the Church correlation committee; genealogical class work; burial insurance for women, the preparation and sale of wedding and burial clothing, special missionary work, and the publication of the Relief Society Magazine. All of this later work has been undertaken under the wise and inspired direction of President Joseph F. Smith who has taken a deep personal interest in regulating the affairs of this Society. From these beginnings have grown the immense and fruitful work which now marks the progress of this Society. There were eighteen members enrolled at the initial meeting; two years later, there were over 1,200, while today the Society numbers nearly 45,000 women. OBJECT OF THE SOCIETY. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters the following counsel in the first meeting held in Nauvoo: 
 He said that the object of the Society was to provoke the brethren to good works, to look after the wants of the poor, to search after objects of charity, and to administer to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and thus to save the elders the trouble of rebuking. At another time he said that he was deeply interested in the Society, that it might be built up in a most high and acceptable manner, that the Society should grow by degrees, being a select company of the virtuous, and those who would walk circumspectly. One particular feature of the Society was to purge out iniquity. He said, "All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted, though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and hands hang down." We must not retrace our steps, he said, and there must be decision of character aside from sympathy — and when instructed we must obey that voice; we must observe the laws of God that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us — that all must act in concert or nothing can be done — that the Society should move according to the Ancient Priesthood, hence there would be a select Society separate from all the evils of the world, choice, virtuous and holy. He said he was going to make of this Society a kingdom of priestesses as in Enoch's day, as in Paul's day, and that it is the privilege of each member to live long and enjoy health. — Nauvoo Relief Society Minutes, Historian's Office. ORGANIZATION. General, Stake, Local. The General Board of the Relief Society presides over the stake and ward organizations in much the same way as the general authorities of the Church preside over the stakes and wards of Zion. The Board now numbers twenty-three directors, out of which are chosen a General President, two Counselors, a General Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary, and General Treasurer. The other directors are grouped in committees representing the general activities of the Society. There is a General Chorister and an Organist who have charge of the General Relief Society choir, and who supervise the music for General conferences. The sixty-nine stakes are each organized with a central or Stake Board with like officers and similar duties to those of the General Board. Each ward is similarly organized. Where other aid than the regular officers is required, either in local or stake boards, sisters may be called in as missionaries, or members of the board. The regular ward officers are a president, two counselors, a secretary, and a treasurer, a corps of teachers, and where possible a librarian, a music director, and a chorister, may be added. CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 117 Both stake and ward organizations may have committees who take charge of the temple clothes, genealogical and temple work, special missionary work, insurance, wheat, and guide work, and all other activities in which the stake or the ward Society may be engaged. All officers and members of the general, stake, and local Relief Society, while acting independently in their own sphere of activity, are under the controlling power of the priesthood, vested in the Presidency of the Church, the Presidency of the Stake, and the Bishopric of the Ward. ORGANIZATION OF STAKE OR WARD RELIEF SOCIETY. The organization or the reorganization of the Relief Society, local, stake and general, is under the direct supervision, and is effected by the local, stake, or general authorities of the Church. The Relief Society is an auxiliary to the priesthood, and therefore under its immediate care and guidance. When the President dies, resigns, or is removed, reorganization necessarily follows. The remaining officers should carry on the work of the Society until the reorganization takes place. Notice of the death of any officer should be sent by the secretary, at once, to the proper authority. Having no written constitution and by-laws in this Society, the decisions of the Presidency of the Church and the General Presidency of this Society form our constitution. This elastic provision permits the constantly revivified current of inspiration and progress to flow through the channels of the Relief Society from the least to the greatest; thus constituting this Society a living social organism. The Prophet gave the following counsel to the sisters in Nauvoo, when organizing the Society: "Let the Presidency serve as a constitution. All their decisions shall be considered as law, and acted upon as such. The minutes of your meeting will be precedent for you to act upon — your constitution and by-laws." All officers of the Society should be women who observe the Sabbath day; who honor the Word of Wisdom; who wear their garments according to the rules of the House of the Lord, and who strive to keep all the laws of God. All games of chance and cards should be avoided by the officers and members of the Society. STAKE AND WARD PRESIDENTS. It is the duty of the stake president and officers to instruct the officers of the various local associations of the stake, by letter or by personal visit, in all matters, following the counsel imparted 
 to them by the Priesthood and by the General Board. Before taking any action in important matters, the stake president should obtain the consent and approval of the stake priesthood presidency. The stake president should preside over all meetings of her board and in her stake conferences, unless she desires one of her assisting officers to perform that duty for her. It is appropriate and courteous occasionally to invite the counselors to conduct meetings. She should, if possible, attend the general conferences of the Relief Society, her expenses, when necessary and possible, to be paid from the stake society treasury. The stake president should provide for the holding of stake and board meetings at least Stake twice a month. Some stake officers meet weekly, Meetings. especially when studying the outlines — so that they may be thoroughly familiar with the lessons prepared. This is an excellent plan, as all officers should be well informed on the lesson course adopted by the Society. Union meetings of stake and local officers should be held at least once a month. The stake president and her counselors and Visits. associates should visit the local organizations as often as possible so that the presidency may come in direct communication with those who are under their care. Visits to distant wards should be made at least once a year. The stake president should see that ward Reports. reports are promptly prepared by ward presidents or secretaries and forwarded to the stake secretary, and that the stake report is sent by the stake secretary to the general secretary; she must note that ward and stake minutes are properly recorded, that all accounts are accurately kept, and that affairs in general are in good condition in her stake. A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any board to be left without an active head. The stake and the ward presidents of a Relief Society should be, above all things, women possessing an unshaken testimony of the truth of this gospel and of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The presidents should be women who have received their blessings in the Temple; any exceptions to this rule, for missions, or otherwise, are under the direct counsel of the local priesthood. Moreover, they should have learned well the lesson of obedience to the priesthood, and be ready to inculcate that doctrine among their associates. The gospel will give them the spirit of love and meekness, of charity and long suffering, and their spirits will be mellowed by its beautiful influence, if they preside among their sisters, as Latter-day Saints. CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 119 Detailed Ward officers should write to the stake Information. president for all detailed information concerning the nature and conduct of their work. When desired, stake officers may pass such points up to the General Board. There is an order in all our work, and ward officials should not pass over the heads of the stake presidency by addressing inquiries to the General Board. The president, counselors, secretary and treasurer may be set apart by the priesthood for their offices, but if this is not convenient, let them proceed with the work on hand, until such time as this matter can be attended to. The president may have a voice in the Filling Vacancies in Boards. selection of her counselors and missionaries, or members of her board, but if the priesthood have taken this matter in hand and chosen the sisters for these offices, let the president be glad that she is thus honored with the attention and confidence of the priesthood. In the absence of the president at any meetPresiding ing, the first counselor should take charge and Officer in carry forward the business of the meeting. If Meetings. she be not present, the second counselor would take charge, then the secretary, then the treasurer, and then the various members of the board in line of precedence. If all the leading officers are absent, any member may arise and move that the meeting shall begin, and name a temporary chairman, then a temporary secretary should be chosen, and the business of the meeting go forward. If officers should at any time be very late, it is perhaps well to carry out this order, so that the whole meeting shall not wait upon belated officers. COUNSELORS. It is the duty of the counselors of the president, whether stake or local, to attend to meetings, to take part in all business discussions and programs, and to preside in the absence of the president. The counselors should assist in visiting the branches and members. They may act upon committees, and do such work as the president may indicate. It is the duty of the counselors to assist the president, but not to lead out in any work except when called to do so by the president. They should visit their president often and ascertain if there is anything they can do to assist. They should take part in organizing branches, and assist in entertaining visitors, or in any social function which may be under way. A counselor is to counsel in the spirit of meekness and love, with long suffering and charity, and above all, when a decision of the President and Board is made, it is the duty of the counselor to loyally sustain that action and refrain from adverse comment on the subject to anyone whatsoever. 
 SECRETARY. The general secretary, the stake secretary, and the local secretary, may each perform her duty without assistance, or she may have an assistant secretary, a recording secretary, a corresponding secretary, or all three of these. The secretary should be a woman with a general education, able to take brief minutes, which record the business and vital discussions. The secretary should have a regular weekly conference with her president. System, order, and regular methods should mark her labors. She should attend all meetings, and if unable to do so, should be sure that her assistant, or some one qualified, is there to take her place. Minutes are the history of an organization, and should be treated as a sacred trust. Minutes should never be taken on slips of loose paper that are likely to be lost, but should be written in a pencil note-book and transcribed weekly into the permanent record; nor should minutes be kept carelessly lying about the home of the secretary. A tin or galvanized box is a good investment in which to place minutes under lock and key. The retiring secretary should at once turn over her minutes — both note books and record books — to her successor. There is no exception to this rule. Tiresome discussions should not be reported at length, nor vague reports made of unimportant circumstances. In copying minutes, a margin of an inch should be left on the left hand side of the page. In this margin, headings or sub-headings of the important points in each paragraph should be written. This is convenient for reference and invaluable as history. The place and date of each meeting should be repeated at the head of each set of minutes. Only motions which are carried should be recorded. If necessary to make any record of suggestions made, or of discussions, this should be done in briefest possible manner, only the topics discussed being named, together with those which are absolutely essential to record. When discussions concern unfinished business, it is well to merely note them, so that they may come up suggestively in the minutes at the beginning of the next meeting, when the business may be completed. It is not necessary, nor in good taste, for secretaries to comment on programs or addresses. They may, or may not, have been eloquent, timely, or interesting, but as a rule, secretaries should not record their own opinions in this way. If necessary to summarize a speech, address, or remarks in conferences where important speakers have been present, it is well to note the topics treated by the various speakers, as well as the names and titles of speakers. If it should happen that the General President of the Society be present, or if the conference should be favored with the presence of the President of the Church, or others of the leading brethren or sisters, it would be wise to give as full and complete a report as may be possible or consistent of such addresses or sermons. Newspaper reports differ very much from minutes, and it is good exercise for the secretary to acquaint herself with the mode of preparing a press report of any important public gathering. All changes in ward offices should be reported at once to the stake secretary by the ward secretary. Changes occurring in stake offices should be immediately reported by the stake secretary to the general secretary at headquarters. The annual reports of the ward should be promptly prepared by the ward secretary and forwarded by her to the stake secretary, to be compiled into the stake reports. The stake secretary should promptly prepare her reports and forward them to the general secretary. A complete set of books will be ready before the close of the year of 1915. These books will be arranged for weekly meetings, and for the recording of all activities. TREASURER. The general treasurer, the stake treasurer, and the ward treasurer should receive and bank all moneys which belong to the Society. The treasurer will exercise extreme care in her responsible duties, for it is the pride of this Society that in the seventy-three years of its existence, no funds have ever been misappropriated, nor have any of our faithful treasurers been untrue to the trust reposed in them. The thousands, nay millions, of dollars which have been handled by this Society since its inception have passed through the hands of the devoted women who have gathered and disbursed them, leaving each and all with clean hands and pure hearts. The treasurer should know something of bookkeeping, so that she may keep her charity fund, her membership dues, and stake and ward fund, and all of the special funds, separate and distinct upon her books. She should understand, clearly, that money which is gathered for one purpose cannot be deflected or turned to any other purpose. The treasurer should not issue checks for money on verbal order from any officer of the Society. A written order from the president of the Society, countersigned by the secretary is the only voucher which the treasurer can safely accept. No moneys should be drawn from the ward treasury without the consent 
 and approval of the ward officers; and in like manner, no money should be drawn from the stake, or general treasury without the consent and knowledge of the stake officers or the General Board who constitute locally and generally the directors of the various departments and branches of the Relief Society. The ward treasurer should gather in her annual dues promptly, and send them to the stake treasurer who in turn sends them to the general treasurer in January. Great confusion results when ward treasurers send annual dues to the general treasurer. It is a rule that must he invariable that ward treasurers report only to their stake treasurer, and she only shall remit moneys to our general treasurer. TEACHERS. Perhaps the most unique and efficient feature of the work of the Relief Society is found in the corps of teachers which is an indispensable feature of each Society. These teachers may be few or many, according to the size -and number of districts which they visit in their labor among the people. They are the select ones among the faithful, efficient and capable sisters who form the body of the Society. The teacher's practical duty consists in visiting once each month, under the direction of the Relief Society presidency, every Latter-day Saint home in her especial district, collecting charity funds and materials each mouth. Some districts may cover only a city block, while others may strentch over long reaches of country farm homes. Teachers may profitably visit the homes of non-"Mormons," if they are tactful and avoid unpleasant discussions. Many non-members are charitable, and will be glad to contribute to the worthy poor in their neighborhood. In some stakes, the teachers and Relief Society special missionaries have been instrumental in converting many persons. The teachers visit their districts in pairs, as is the custom of the teachers of the Priesthood. Before starting out upon their work, the teachers should be fortified with an earnest prayer for guidance, and the sweet spirit of the gospel. The salutation of the ancient Hebrew might well be on the lips of the teachers as they enter the portals of every home, "Peace be unto this house." An invitation should be given by the teacher to every woman in the ward to attend the Relief Society meeting. The conversation of the teachers should be tactfully directed towards the principles of the gospel, and the conversation should lead into channels which will reveal the spiritual and temporal 
 condition of the homes into which they go. This can be done without offense, if the good spirit attends upon the teacher. If there are any ill feelings with the mother or children in the home, or between neighbors, perhaps a word of encouragement and hope from the teachers may drive away the clouds of depression and gloom in the household. If there is any want, sickness, or destitution in the home, these should be discretely discovered, and if the case is pressing, that condition should be reported immediately to the president of the Relief Society, and measures taken, at once, to relieve that need. The funds and materials gathered by the teachers are taken to the first meeting of the month which is the work and business meeting; where distribution to the needy is also provided for. In some stakes, the teachers have printed cards, in which are reported the various points noted in their monthly visits. We give here a suggestive copy of such a report, which may be used if desired: RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER's REPORT. For District No., Ward..... for 191. May 1 June Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. July Aug. Sept. Oct. April Nov. Number of Homes Number of NonNumber of Homes Amount Cash Re! Amount Merchant Extra Time Spent in Charity Work 1 Did I Use Topic of Did I Attend. Bus1 ' In some stakes, the teachers have a printed personal card which is left at the door when no one is at home. The card shows the teacher has performed her duty. Note. — The sweet courtesy of the gospel will inspire the teachers who go into the homes of the people, and if, perchance, they should not always meet with like courtesy and dignity, the 
 teachers will understand and quickly forgive such as may unwittingly give offense. CHOIR LEADER. Each stake and branch Relief Society should have, if possible, a well organized choir, and this of course necessitates a faithful choir leader. Music is a very beautiful part of our public worship, and happily the exercise of the art is, in most cases, its own exceeding reward. The duty of the stake or ward choir leader is to provide suitable music for opening and closing exercises, and where desired, special musical numbers may be given. Congregational singing should, perhaps, be the rule in the regular meetings of the Society. Hymns should be chosen because of the inspiring character of both words and music. If the choir leader is sufficiently interested and alive to her duty to furnish special numbers during the progress of the meeting or conference, she should be encouraged. She should not, however, so embarrass the program committee with extra musical numbers that there is no chance for the rest of the program to go on in its uninterrupted way. Tact, as well as industry, should mark the labors of stake and choir leaders, as, indeed, of all other officers of the Society. ORGANIST. Second only to the choir leader in importance is the diligent organist who works as hard, gives as noble service, and is as much an integral part of the official board as any member thereof. She, too, will appreciate a word of gratitude and encouragement from her superior officers. LIBRARIAN. The choice for librarian, general, stake or local, would necessarily fall on a well read and intelligent woman. She should be well versed in general literature; but, above all things, she should know the value and glory of all our sacred books, and be able to instruct and inspire others with like zeal for a literature, pure and undefiled. She should guard the books jealously, keep accurate record of them, and insist on proper cases for their preservation. After a library is well stocked with the Church books and home authors, it is time enough to begin with fiction or light literature. The best first, should be the librarian's motto. A good dictionary, and encyclopedia, general histories and biographies would form the foundation of a library, after securing the Church works. 
 MEMBERSHIP. Any woman of good character, from the oldest to the youngest, and who desire Who are to unite with the Society will be welcomed eligible. therein. The applicant should be recommended by a member, and be received by a unanimous vote of the members present. Non-members of the Church may become members of the Society, but cannot hold office. MEMBERSHIP DUES, AND ROLL. A roll of all Relief Society members should be kept in the record book, and as many pages shall be reserved for the recording of names as may be necessary. A second roll may be kept of the active membership. When members attend infrequently care should be taken to give them credit. HALL, FIFTH WARD, PROVO. RELIEF SOCIETY In conformity with the instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith each new member should be recommended by a member in good standing and should sign her name to the roll. No name should be removed from the roll except First, by request of the individual. Second, by a two-thirds vote of the members for good and sufficient reason. Opposite the names of members removed or deceased, the word removed or deceased should be written. A regular roll book should be used by the secretary, in which the names of regular attendants shall be kept, with sufficient space to add the names of properly enrolled non-attending members, as they may attend the meetings or be received into membership. The membership dues should be collected the second week in January by the teachers, who should be furnished the names of enrolled members in their districts. All dues should be remitted to the general treasurer during the month of January. All members, whether able to attend meetings or not, should pay their regular dues. MEETINGS AND CONFERENCES. The local meetings of the Society should be held weekly on Tuesday, usually at 2:00 p. m. The first meeting is a work and business meeting, the second meeting is the testimony and theology meeting; the other two meetings take up the studies given in our outline from year to year. The time of the first meeting is occupied with business reports from the teachers, receiving and disbursing charity funds, with a consideration of cases of want, with the making of quilts, carpets, or clothing for the needy, or with any other matters of regular or special business that may come before the local society — the building or furnishing of Relief Society houses, libraries, the storing of grain, the drying of fruit, the plans for bazaars or social functions, the purchasing of property, the building of granaries or libraries. Indeed, all the forms of activity which constitute the practical side of our work is considered in the business sessions of the Society. The other three meetings are devoted to the study of the lesson work which is furnished by the General Board of the Society, and approved by the Correlation Committee of the General Authorities. The conduct of these meetings follows the accepted order in this Church for the similar business or study meeting. The general plan or order would be, — 1. Singing. 2. Prayer. 3. Singing. 4. Roll Call. 5. Minutes. 6. Work, Testimony or Lessons. 7. Singing. 8. Benediction. Note. Where five meeting days occur in one month the Society is at liberty to use the day as convenience may require. CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 127 When business is conducted by the presiding officers in this Society, they should follow the order of procedure mapped out by any good parliamentarian — Roberts' Rules of Order being the accepted guide for procedure. Of all the meetings, the testimony and business meeting is the most important. It is the foundation upon which all the other work rests. Officers and members alike should give it their best attention. Ward officers should meet— preferably once a week — or as often as may Officers' be consistent or required. These meetings Meetings. are held to discuss the business of the Society and to prepare the way for new work to be introduced, and for old work to be completed. The General Board holds weekly meetings as well as occasional special meetings to prepare the work for the Society. GUIDE WORK. The General Board have provided special studies for the local wards, and these lessons, which occupy the last three meetings in the month, should all be studied. If the Society can cover all the work in the Guide, and find time to follow other lines of study, they may be permitted to do so, if they will communicate with the General Board. But it would be a mistaken policy, when lessons are provided for all, to permit individual wards or stakes to choose their own, and to reject that which has been prepared by the proper authority. This rule would not apply to missions, altogether, for their situation is different, and their requirements are varied. More latitude could be allowed to mission presidents of the Relief Society, but they should communicate with the General Board. Their work, done in the missions, will be under the direct charge of the Presidents of the Missions. CONFERENCES, GENERAL, STAKE AND LOCAL. Most of the wards hold an annual conference, which is visited by the stake president or her representatives. Programs are sometimes provided for these gatherings, and should not be too long to permit of instructions from the visitors. Stake conferences are held semi-annually, one of them being known as the annual conference, which is marked by the visit of some General Board representative. FUNDS. This Society has three great funds to which it contributes, also a number of special funds. All of these are optional, with 
 the exception of the membership dues, and are regulated according to circumstances and conditions, both local and general. The decision of the Presidency of the Church, in a recent case, was that funds donated for one purpose should not be used for any other purpose. These funds are: Charity Fund. Membership Dues. Stake and Local Dues. Special Funds. — Wheat fund, building fund, genealogy and temple fund, missionary fund, library fund, etc. CHARITY FUND. The Charity fund consists of means gathered by the teachers in their visits to the homes of the people. This may be any sum from five cents upward. No case of want or sickness is neglected in the midst of this people, where Relief Society teachers are active and alive to their duties. There has never been any need for asylums and homes for the neglected poor, and forsaken aged, amongst this people. So far in our history, these have always been cared for and supported by the kind hearts and willing hands about them. In the year 1913, there were $66,236.16 collected in the Charity funds by all the branches of this organization. No one who collects or distributes this amount receives a penny for her services. It may be said of the sisters of the Relief Society that freely they have received, and freely have they given. None of these funds are handled by the General Board except the general membership dues. The various funds are administered by the Relief Society officers in the wards and stakes of Zion for the purposes for which they were gathered. Few realize what great sums have been gathered, for various purposes, in this So- Sunday Eggs. ciety, by the saving of Sunday eggs. Sister Sarah Petersen, wife of President Canute Petersen, of Sanpete Stake, introduced this novel idea many years ago, and it is still in force in some parts of the Church. MEMBERSHIP DUES. For many years, the current expenses of the Relief Society General Officers were borne by themselves. As years and complex conditions made this impossible, an annual membership due was provided. For some years, this due was 10c only. In October, 1913, at a business meeting of the general conference of the Society, the annual membership due was increased to 25c. This money is gathered by the ward officers, and is sent by the ward treasurer to the CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 129 stake treasurer annually, and should reach the General Office in Salt Lake City in January of each year. The money so gathered is used for office rent, for the traveling expenses of missionaries sent out from the General Board to the various stakes to visit conferences and conventions; for publishing circulars; for clerical hire; and for such other items as pertain to the conduct of this Society. It may be surprising to learn that thousands of dollars are spent in the visits of the General Board who travel to Canada, New Mexico, Colorado, Idaho and California, and sometimes foreign countries, visiting both near and far-away stakes. The distant stakes are usually the least able to pay the large expenses for the trips which must be made in order to reach them. As it is, the burden falls on each alike, and is felt by none. STAKE AND WARD EXPENSE FUND. It costs something to meet the stake expenses as well as to carry on the ward work in the various branches of the Society. The manner in which these funds shall be collected, and the amount of such funds are left with each stake and ward to determine, according to conditions and needs. SPECIAL FUNDS. Wheat Fund. This branch of Relief Society work is peculiar to this Society. It was begun, under the instructions of President Brigham Young, in 1876. He gave this mission to President Emmeline B. Wells, and since that date, many thousands of bushels of wheat have been collected and stored by this Society. At the present time, Dec, 1914, the Society has on hand 157,000 bushels of wheat; 43,000 bushels of this is deposited in Church elevators, 70,000 bushels are stored in Relief Society granaries, 23,000 in local granaries, and 21,000 bushels in sundry repositories. There are $33,756 invested in local granary buildings which make $190,869 belonging properly to this wheat fund. This wheat should not be loaned by the Society to individuals or institutions. It is gathered for a specific purpose, and the counsel of the Presidency of the Church is to leave it undisturbed where it is deposited. Local authorities are not justified in disposing of this wheat, nor can wards or stakes use the wheat for any other purpose than that for which it was gathered. Wheat is gathered by gleaning, and by donation, as well as by purchase from the funds donated for that purpose. The need was never greater for this form of organized charity than today. The wheat or the funds may be gathered by the local teachers 
 or by a local committee which may be formed for that purpose. As to the storing of the grain, we quote from the recent circular of the Presiding Bishopric: "For years past, the matter of storing wheat has been a difficult problem with the Relief Society. In some cases local granaries have been built at considerable cost, with additional expense for their maintenance. There have been reported many sad experiences involving loss of grain from various causes. And while the policy and practice of storing wheat is not changed, but on the contrary is to be encouraged, we desire to change the method of storing wheat and thus prevent the expensive outlay incident to the erection of granaries and their maintenance, a cost which is often out of all proportion to the value of the wheat stored in these structures. "Where there are no local facilities for storing wheat with safety, arrangements may be made with the Presiding Bishopric to take money in lieu of wheat. The money so received will be invested in wheat, and the wheat will be stored in central elevators, in places where wheat is abundant and where railway facilities make it accessible. In arranging for storage and in selling wheat the stake Relief Society officers should consult with the presidency of the stake." Building Fund. Many of our wards have built commodious and useful halls for the use of the Relief Society. They have also invested somewhat in real estate, buildings, stocks, and bonds, beside the money spent for the building of local granaries. The Society has $107,574 invested in Relief Society halls; they have $33,756 invested in Relief Society granaries; they have $7,875 invested in other real estate and buildings. This makes a sum total of $149,205 owned in real estate and buildings by the ward and stake organizations of this Society. In later years, the ward authorities have provided comfortable quarters for the Relief Society in the newly erected meeting houses in all parts of the Church. Usually the women have contributed to this purpose. When, therefore, the sisters have an opportunity of having commodious rooms or halls in the ward buildings, it would be unnecessary and unwise, perhaps, to erect their own buildings; but such wards as do possess a hall, built by the Relief Society, are to be congratulated. Funds may or may not be collected, therefore, for quarters for the Society, and the officials of each ward may or may not invest means in buildings or real estate. These matters are left largely to local and stake officers. The Society donated $8,500 to the Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, and thus secured permanent headquarters in that CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 
 commodious structure. Maintenance of these quarters costs a goodly annual sum but the offices are spacious and elegant. General officers' meetings are held here at conference time, and our members are always welcome at our rooms. REAL ESTATE AND BUILDINGS All real estate or buildings belonging to Relief Societies, or which may hereafter be acquired by them, should be held by the Bishop of the ward in trust for them, as all ward properties are held by him. Presidents should consult the bishopric in regard to any questions which may arise in this matter. We quote the following from the "Circular of Instructions No. 12," issued in 1913, by the Presiding Bishop: "68. There is a law in operation in the States of Utah, Idaho and Arizona which permits a bishop to become a corporation sole and vests the corporate powers in him and his successors in office. When a bishop ceases to hold his office his successor by operation of the law succeeds to all the rights of his predecessor by filing, with the county recorder of the county in which the ward is located, a certified copy of his appointment. Such 
 corporation should hold the title to all ward property, including tithing and Relief Society and other local property." Genealogical Funds. This department of Relief Society activity is somewhat new to our workers. Since the lessons in genealogy have been provided for study in our lesson guide, many wards have felt the necessity of a special fund to carry on some details of the work. In some wards, there is a committee on burial or temple clothing, and where wards are distant from temple districts, this is perhaps an excellent plan. These two committees may, or may not be combined in one department. The genealogical and temple work fund may be used to pay the expenses of some poor individuals or couples to spend time in a temple, doing their own work, or work on charity lines. Some wards have a committee to act as an exchange bureau for genealogical information and labor. This committee secures names from people who are unable to go to the temple themselves, or hire anyone else to do so, and these names are furnished to others who want to go to the temple, but who have no lists to work upon. A committee might engage in the collection of funds, which can be sent to the temple in the district, with lists of names accompanying the money. Any further instructions on this subject should be applied for from the temple authorities, or from the Genealogical Committee of the General Board. Funds collected for this purpose naturally should not be used for any other. The committee can arrange temple excursions, which may become annual or semi-annual, or even monthly affairs. The genealogical class teachers should learn how to prepare the temple sheets and names, so that when the party reaches the temple, the recorder's work is made comparatively light. Genealogical conventions may be held from time to time, and teachers may be secured from the Genealogical Society to any stake, if the request is made to the secretary of the Genealogical Society, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City. The committee on genealogy should work in harmony with the stake and local agents of the Genealogical Society. Missionary Fund. In some wards, a missionary fund has been established. This may be used to assist young men or women missionaries who are laboring out in the field to preach the gospel, or it may be used for the assistance of needy families, whose head and CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 133 bread winner, is out preaching the gospel. Like the other special funds, this fund is entirely optional. Library Fund. In some wards, a very good library is owned by the Society with book-cases in which to preserve the books. This example cannot be too highly recommended to each ward president. The Prophet Joseph Smith urged this people to read good books, and to acquaint themselves with every branch of learning and art possible for mortals to obtain. The recommendation of the General Board is always in favor of a good library, which is used either by circulation amongst the members, or in any other form consistent with our usual work. Funds or books may be collected by the officers, and book-cases should be provided. Relief Society halls, not otherwise needed, might make excellent quarters for a semi-public circulating Relief Society library. Note. — The foregoing is an indication of the funds raised and used by the Society. There have been, are, and no doubt will be, other means collected for purposes not herein named. The growing and changing needs of a great Society like this necessitates an elastic plan of operation which will adapt itself to any and all legitimate requirements. RELIEF SOCIETY COMMITTEES. The activities of the Society may be indicated by a glance at the standing committees of the General Board. They show the extended nature of the work undertaken by the women who labor in this Society: Outline Committee. Magazine Advisory Committee. Correlation Committee. Wheat Committee. Genealogical Committee. Public Health Committee. Temple Clothing Committee. Nurse School Committee. Peace Committee. Relief Society Home Committee. Insurance Committee. Special Missionary Committee. Finance Committee. Music Committee. Stake Conference Committee. 
 NURSE CLASS WORK. The object of the Relief Society School of Nurses is to provide relief for the destitute. Also to provide those in moderate circumstances with the services of a practical nurse in their homes. Women and girls who desire a professional training in nursing as a source of livelihood may here receive such training, and thus become not only self-supporting but a blessing to the community. Presidents of stakes and wards should choose women whose ideals are of the highest type for this work, and, if possible, the candidates should have at least an eighth grade education. If the applicant has had a good course along domestic lines, this will increase her efficiency, and enhance her value. The Relief Society, during its whole existence, has engaged in charitable nursing though for years there was no special training for the work. In our rural communities today, all of the nursing done for the destitute and needy is by the Relief Society teachers and members, as well as by our Relief Society nurses. A dozen years ago, a regular course in the study of nursing as a science was instituted by the General Board, classes being held in this city, the applicants coming from all over the Church. These students are recommended by the Relief Society ward president, and the ward society pays for their tuition. The nurse-students find homes in the city, where they can do domestic labor for their board, as a rule, while taking the course. The applicant agrees to spend one month in doing free charitable work on her return home during her first year for the privileges she has secured in this inexpensive training in the vital art of nursing the sick. Accounts are kept of this work, and the Relief Society nurses of Salt Lake City are listed by our General Superintendent of Relief Society nurses, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. They are in great demand most of the time. Since the erection of the Groves L. D. S. Hospital our sisters may enter that institution, and secure diplomas after a three year's course, which qualifies them for the most technical and difficult cases, and constitutes them professional nurses. Hundreds of women have taken this Relief Society course and the professional Hospital course, and have done a wonderful work throughout the Church. During the period of eight years 233 women and girls have been graduated from the Relief Society course, the graduation occurring biennially. Three thousand five hundred and forty days of charity work have been spent by our nurses in Salt Lake City, during the eight years, 109 nurses having participated in this benevolent cause; 124 nurses not residents of Salt Lake City have done charity work in CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 135 their own respective towns and villages throughout Utah and the neighboring states during the eight years. TEMPLE CLOTHING COMMITTEE. Where advisable, temple clothing committees may be organized in wards and stakes. These will provide such apparel as is necessary for loan or hire, for those who go to the temple. Burial clothes may also be prepared by these committees. People who engage the services of these committees or of the Society itself, to prepare burial clothing, should certainly be willing to pay as much for such material and the labor of making it up, as they would pay to the ordinary undertaker. If the one for whom this clothing is prepared, has been a charge upon the Society, and the friends and relatives are not able to pay for the clothing, a donation is always in order. But those who are able to pay for the material or labor, should not impose upon the sisters of the Relief Society, either for funds, clothing, or time. The General Board of the Relief Society have an efficient committee who have two departments of this labor, one for burial clothes, and one for the accommodation of people who wish to work in the temple. Their office is at headquarters, in the Bishop's Building; the chairman of that committee is Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Beehive House, No. 67 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. Ward officers and members should apply to Stake Presidents for assistance, for patterns and for information. If Stake Presidents desire any information or assistance in these matters they may apply to the General Secretary. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME. Through the generosity of the presiding authorities of the Church, a Home has been provided for the Relief Society, where our sisters who come to the city and wish to obtain clean, respectable and modest apartments can do so at a very nominal fee. This Home is situated opposite the north gate of the Temple block, and rooms may be secured on personal application, or through letter. LUCY MACK HOME. The Ensign Stake Relief Society have established a home for wage-earning girls, which they call the Lucy Mack Home. This happy project is under the direct inspiration and supervision of Miss Maud May Babcock who, associated with Mrs. W. W. Riter, originated the thought and brought it to successful issue. Girls are welcome here, and find cheap and comfortable lodgings when 
 they are not in service, or if working in stores. It is situated on First avenue. EMPLOYMENT BUREAU. There is an Employment Bureau in operation in the Presiding Bishop's Office, which provides places for women and girls who desire to work out, while those who need hired help, may apply to the Bishop's Office and secure whatever help may be available. This Employment Bureau works indirectly in connection with the Relief Society office, but is under the direct charge of Elder Frank W. Penrose. Mothers who send their girls to this city for employment should instruct them to apply to this Bureau, or to the Lucy Mack Home for Girls. CAFETERIA. Under the direction of the five city stakes of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., of Salt Lake City, a cafeteria has been opened in the basement of the old Social Hall on State street. Meals are served here at noon, of excellent quality and at a very moderate price. On Saturday evenings, supper may also be obtained. This is a retiring and pleasing place for our sisters to come to whenever they are in the city and desire a noon-day meal. INSURANCE. The General Board of the Relief Society, after a thorough investigation, has introduced Insurance as one of the regular features of its work. Before taking any step toward establishing this department, the matter was presented to the First Presidency. The two letters appended are self-explanatory: Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 21, 1914. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors: Dear Brethren: We would like to know your mind in regard to introducing some benefit insurance into the Relief Society. A number of social and other insurance companies for women are doing quite a profitable business in this community. These fraternal orders — for men and women — took out of the state last year $177,213.79. Some of our sisters join those lodges, while others take out the small benefit insurance from regular companies, some of CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 137 which companies are located in foreign lands. The idea of having a little fund put by with which to meet burial expenses is very attractive to our women. Our sisters have contributed liberally to every form of charity and public activity, such as the building of temples and meeting houses, schools and amusement halls; while doing very much towards furnishing these places. Few have acquired the saving habit, and fewer still are inculcating saving habits in the minds of the young children of today. Too many of our sisters, when they die, are left to the indifferent mercy of relatives, or to the ward authorities. They would be glad to be placed where they could have this last liberal service performed for themselves without being a burden on those left behind. They could, and many would be willing, to pay a small sum monthly which would insure them their modest burial expenses. Some of our young sisters would gladly pay a small monthly sum for school or for a marriage portion that would mature in five, ten, or twenty years. While most children could be taught to put by small sums monthly towards paying for their schooling or missions when old enough for that need. The habit of saving would be of more value to them in developing character than the monetary benefits. We have applied to the Beneficial Life Insurance Company which has our President Joseph F. Smith at its head, and which is also officered by our own brethren, to give us rates and details of such a plan as we have suggested. We enclose a copy of the rate list made out for us. We would expect to work entirely through the powerful, reliable and courteous company named. Agents would be appointed in each ward and stake, but the business details would be handled by the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. What premiums accrued to our Board over and above the running expenses would be turned to Relief Society work. We lay this matter before you, and trust to hear from you as soon as convenient. We are Your sisters in the Gospel, Emmeline B. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 27, 1914. Prests. Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Relief Society. Dear Sisters: We approve the suggestion outlined in yours of the 21st inst., to introduce and maintain a system of benefit 
 insurance in connection with Relief Society, believing that this departure from relief work would be a means of supplying an income for the Society itself, as well as by the means of inducing and encouraging our sisters to form the habit of saving means which otherwise would doubtless be disposed of unwisely. It is understood by us that the officials of the company with whom you have been talking in regard to this matter are to render you all the necessary clerical assistance, especially at the outset; also that the company is to furnish the Society with necessary books, etc., and otherwise co-operate with you with a view to making this movement the success we all wish it to become. Your brethren, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency. There are two forms of insurance — the burial insurance and the endowment insurance. The first purpose is to provide funds for burial expenses, and the second for saving purposes for both old and young. Young people may take the latter kind of insurance to secure help for an education, or for funds for missionary purposes. It may be provided by parents or by guardians for children. The Relief Society is offering insurance only to its registered members under the age of 70, and their children. Insurance is offered on three different plans. The first plan is called the Whole Life. For a small payment made each year, as long as the member lives, she is insured for $100 to $300 according to the rate she pays. At any time death occurs, the Society will pay the amount of insurance to the beneficiary designated by the insured. Another plan is the Limited Payment Life where the insured pays a slightly larger amount for a specified number of years, say ten, fifteen or twenty, and after having paid premiums as provided has a certificate paid up which continues the insurance in force for the entire life of the insured, without further payments. Either of these two plans we call our Burial Benefit. The third plan is termed Endowment Insurance, and means that the insured, if she lives to the end of a specified period, either ten, fifteen or twenty years, and makes the payments for these years, will receive the amount of the insurance in cash. Or, should the member die before the expiration of that period, the amount of insurance will, of course, be paid in cash immediately to the beneficiary. Detailed information will be furnished on application to the General Secretary. CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 
 The Health Committee — comprising several members of the Relief Society General Board — have done much in the way of disseminating knowledge for the promotion and maintenance of health conditions. The Utah State Medical Board, and the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have given valuable assistance to the committee, and have been most generous in contributing printed matter on various health subjects. Thousands of pamphlets have been distributed by these boards, and about a thousand by a physician in private practice; these have been sent out by the Health Committee to the Relief Society organizations. The active interest taken in the "fly" campaign resulted in the destruction of literally bushels of flies and made a very noticeable abatement of the fly nuisance throughout the State. In 1913, a trained nurse was employed by the General Board of the Relief Society to give her time at the milk station established by the Salt Lake City Board of Health. This nurse did very effective work, looking after the babies of families who were without means, seeing that they were properly fed with pure milk, and giving advice as to the care of the children. In 1914, the stakes of Salt Lake City raised means to employ nurses for the same work at two different milk stations. Addresses have been given by members of the committee on prevention of disease, and on sanitation before the Relief Society general conference. Besides that, through the efforts of this committee, physicians who were specialists in their line of work have given addresses on the following subjects: "Care of Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat," "Posture, and Its Effect on Physical Well-being," "Care of Nervous Children." Also the health articles which have appeared in the Relief Society Bulletin have been prepared by this committee. The entire July and August numbers of the Bulletin, 1914, were prepared by the Health Committee, in connection with the free hygienic literature which was distributed at that time. Whatever subject of this nature comes up before the Board is referred to this committee for consideration and action. SPECIAL MISSIONARY COMMITTEE. The Special Missionary Committee which has been operative in our larger cities, has extensive and definite plans of operation and organization. They are engaged in a work of prevention rather than reform. Unprotected girls and wage earners are their especial care. 
 MAGAZINE. As in all other matters, the women of this Society have kept in the van of progress. Under the direction of President Brigham Young, assisted by Eliza R. Snow, the Woman's Exponent was started, in 1872, as the organ of the Relief Society of the Church. So far as known, it is the second paper for women ever started in the world. For some years, it was controlled by a committee of the General Board of the Relief Society. Miss Lula Greene (Richards) was its first editor. She was a niece of President Brigham Young and a local writer of some note, although but a young girl at that time. The suggestion of such a periodical was made by that brilliant pioneer journalist, Edward L. Sloan, who was editor of the Herald at the time, to Miss Lula Greene, and together, they edited and managed the little paper. It was first published in the Herald office, and at the death of Brother Sloan, two years later, it was taken over to the Deseret News. For many years the type was set by young girls, and all the work done by women. Miss Lula Greene married, shortly after, and the course and exigencies of her family interfered greatly with this enterprise, so that President Emmeline B. Wells was invited to the position of assistant editor, in 1875, which position she occupied until 1877, when Mrs. Richards resigned, and President Wells became editor-in-chief. This place she filled with faith and diligence for thirty-eight years. For some time Miss Cornelia Home acted as business manager. In later years, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon acted as assistant editor of the Exponent, and was an able journalist and a clear, careful and frequent writer for its pages. The Exponent ceased publication in March, 1914. It was a beacon light to the women of this Church, and an example of independent womanhood to all the world. Its pages were filled with the spirit and genius of the Relief Society work, and the constant advancement and progress of the women of this Church and of the women throughout the world. President Emmeline B. Wells made herself famous in two continents, through its pages, while she won and kept the esteem and admiration of those with whom she mingled at home. January 1, 1914, the General Board of the Relief Society issued the first number of the Bulletin, which contained the guide lessons newly provided by the General Board, for the use of the Relief Society throughout the Church. The committee, appointed for this work from the Board, undertook to provide 12,500 copies monthly of the Bulletin free of cost to the General Board and to the stake and local authorities of the Society. This obligation has been faithfully carried out. The Advisory Committee were: Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Rebecca N. Nibley; CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 141 editor, Susa Young Gates; business manager, Janette A. Hyde; assistant business manager, Amy Brown Lyman. January 1, 1915, the new Relief Society Magazine began its existence. It is owned, edited, and published by the General Board of the Society, and it is the organ and voice of this Society. The price is $1.00 per year. The Magazine covers the usual literary and departmental features, common to such publications. It also contains the guide lessons, and aims to be the printed expression of the various functions and activities of this Society. The same committee, editor, and business managers, as were appointed to carry on the Bulletin, were chosen to conduct the affairs of the Magazine. ANNUAL DAY. On the 17th of March, 1842, this Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Ill., and this day has been set apart as an annual festival for all stakes, wards, and for the General Board itself. It is quite consistent for cities composed of several wards to meet as a whole in one large gathering place on that day, and combine their efforts in a general program of exercises. Or the day may be remembered by the individual wards, according to their desire and circumstances. It is the custom on that day to read a summary of the first minutes of the organization, and to dwell very particularly on the object and aims of the Society, with other historical phases of its development. It may be a happy custom for the wards so engaged to prepare historical sketches of their own organizations, and preserve the names of the pioneer women who led out in this work in the local wards and associations. Whatever may be done, the women of this Church should remember the debt they owe to the Prophet of God who opened the door and turned the key for this great and marvelous Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Our subscribers will be surprised and no doubt pleased to find this March number just doubled in size. This is due to the fact that the new Circular is in the Magazine, in response to a general demand for information contained therein. Later, we will issue the Circular separately and sell it for 10 cents. The General Board decided to pay the extra cost of printing it in the Magazine, now, thinking to recoup the fund with future sales of the pamphlet circular. We want our sisters who have so loyally subscribed for our Magazine to get the first and the best of everything.