A Prince of Ur. CHAPTER II. In the Court of the Women. The tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, of harps, zithers, kinhars, kerens and cymbals rose and fell on the perfumed air of the covered courtyard with mystic regularity. The melody was vague, involved and of a certain monotony, but it was full-throated with illusive suggestion. Suddenly it ceased. And after a poignant pause, the strings again took up a plaint of wordless music. But this time, the motif was the simple and thrilling expression of religion's devotion and purity. No voluptuous throb of love-hunger or pulsing chord of velvet-voiced allurement troubled the simple melody. This second hymn was the sweetness of pure adoration, that other had been the tempestuous call of the individual to his primitive impulses, whether of love or of woe. Both of the melodic strains bit into the memory with keen insistence. The musicians were artists in their pictorial modes of musical expression. Silence, sudden and swift again cut off the music as if some hand had been threading complicated pearls of sound and each had suddenly broken into separate strands. The covered courtyard in the palace of Ur was empty during this heated afternoon season. But the hidden gallery where the musicians wove their harmonious embroideries of sound sheltered the brown-faced Babylonian harp and flute players, and their leader, who was a curled Babylonian, smiled and bent his body with lithe rhythm. The great flowered court of the women in the palace of the Satrap of Ur was cooled and refreshed with the softly dripping and splashing fountains which played into the alabaster basins beneath. In the dim cloisters of the shaded rooms on the east side of the great courtyard dozens of slaves moved in and out with subdued but persistent activity. They were just now replenishing the lovely vases of gold and jeweled alabaster which graced the half columns of the beautiful rooms or rested low upon the carved pedestals, and every appointment and detail of the luxurious interior was polished and shining with the exquisite care of refined cleanliness. Not a line of fault lay exposed under the softened rays of the western sun, not one lingering atom of blemish marred the glowing purity of this stately harem salon. The exquisitely embroidered curtains, rugs, and cushions which hung or lay scattered about breathed a fragrant delicacy and A PRINCE OF UR. 143 neatness that was perhaps as apparent to the observant eye as were the shining walls of alabaster and the oriental furnishing of the long hall. "Your Highness," murmured a messenger who lifted the outer curtain to enter into the august presence of the lovely Lady who sat upon her golden couch busily embroidering at a frame of royal tapestry; "the musicians take their orders from the princess Ischa, and she demands a repetition of the hymn to Ishtar with all the accompanying odes and interludes for this afternoon's entertainment." "So?" said the Princess Sarai. "Then must the princess Ischa have speech with me. Take my mother's signet ring. Ask the Lady Ischa to render me the courtesy of her presence in my boudoir. We shall have speech together. Nay — wait — I will myself attend upon the Lady Ischa and my Lady Milcah shall accompany me. Prepare my train!" The fluttering cortege which rose and grouped themselves about the tall and commanding figure of the Princess Sarai and her younger sister, Milcah, were themselves maidens of rank and beauty in the City of Ur, but their brilliant oriental embroideries and rich jewels did not excel in color or charm the sparkling eyes and the olive-cheeked beauty of these junior princesses of the royal city of Ur. The daughters of the nobles were honored by service to the princess Sarai. Crossing the courts where flowers of heavy odors absorbed the perfumes of the splashing fountains, across the delicately tiled and richly ornamented walks and cloisters of the great enclosure, the Princess and her train passed on, the merry jestings and lively repartees of the damsels passing unchecked by the stately Princess who chose not to interfere with the gay abandon and carefully veiled delight of her handmaidens in what might turn out to be a very pretty encounter between two high born ladies of differing minds. But they kept their chatter discreetly under breath, although the gurgling laugh of very young girlhood would ripple out and silence for the moment by its innocent ringing charge the cruder music of the zithers overhead in the hidden gallery. The musicians had once more returned to the hymn of praise to the glories of Ishtar and her passionate search for Isdubar in the realms of Purgatory. The salon on the west side of the long courtyard in the Women's quarters of the palace was dimly lighted, the sunlight itself being almost a stranger to the whole place; lamps of golden lights stood everywhere though just now but a few were lighted, for it was still too early for the blaze of evening glory which made of this gorgeous interior a symphony of light and color. Color ran riot everywhere in this second salon within the palace. Flame of red and blaze of purple were emblazoned in the tricot 
 tiled walls and the richly embroidered couches of gold and ivory. Great bowls of rare roses and vases of purple passion flowers filled the air with heavy incense. Yet everywhere there was confusion and disorder. A very riot of luxurious appointments, but so crowded, so dust-covered that it was painful for a sensitive person to linger within. On a dais in the center of the inner hall on a carved throne of ivory with legs of gold and handles set with the lion heads of the Assyrian kings sat a very tall and finely moulded maiden, just now allowing her maidens to twine into her long pale gold tresses great purple passion flowers. She looked up quickly as the cortege of her kinswoman filled the outer hall and she rose eagerly to give her greetings to her elder and lovelier relation. "Enter, my lady Sarai. We are honored indeed with the visit of a princess, be she never so close of kin. Maidens, bring my cushions, — nay my princess, thou must sit on my throne when thou doest me the honor of thy presence." Sarai, conscious that her quick impulse had given the other woman the advantage in this possible crossing of wills, nevertheless was wise enough to make the most of her own superior age and position, and she knew that her quick action had its rise in a generous impulse, so that she would not be disconcerted by the half playful homage and the exaggerated courtesy done her by her younger kinswoman. She answered salute by salute, courtesy by courtesy, and gave gentle and deliberate answer to each long and tiresome ceremonial question. The Assyrian court etiquette was at times most distasteful to the frank and candid spirit of the Princess Sarai, reared as she had been in the simple atmosphere of a patriarchal, home. But she had sufficient self-control to hide from the sharp eyes of her hostess the boredom these interminable questions after her own health, that of her maidens, her elder relatives, her birds, her plants, and even her recent exploits in needlework caused her — for she knew that all must be minutely set forth by question and answer before the matter in hand could at all be brought forward. Such ceremonies were a necessity in the Babylonian and Chaldean country, perhaps, where the whole habit of mind and the convolutions of the brain were involved, mystic, and full of suggestive thoughts and blind metaphors, rather than with the direct speech of the pastoral Shemites, whose ways and customs had already become antiquated through the fashions of their more highly cultured Babylonian neighbors. For herself, Sarai preferred the direct and simple tongue of their father, Eber, and she quickly resorted to it the moment the long ceremonies of her greetings had passed over. "My kinswoman, I came this day, to suggest that we shall not set the harps and flutes of our musicians to the hymns of A PRINCE OF UR. 145 the Assyrian goddess, Ishtar. Though the melody be lovely enough, the influence of music is too potent and the suggestions given to the minds of the young maidens through even the mention of that corrupt goddess' name is too baneful to permit of encouragement in this palace. Say you not so, my kinswoman?" The brilliant eyes of the other princess, Ischa, narrowed till they showed only a baleful glitter across the pale expanse of her low broad brow and her colorless cheek. While the flutter of her thin and glowing red lips proved that this challenge, delivered simply and without effort at concealment, had struck her like a whip stroke, Ischa tapped her long sandaled feet for several moments on the tessellated floor as she sat or rather half reclined on her cushions on the steps of her own throne, at the feet of her visitor. But she did not raise the sword-sharp glance, nor open the scarlet lips for some moments. The air was vibrant with the storm that was brewing. Still Ischa said nothing. "My princess," said Sarai at last, "let us send from our presence the maidens, both yours and mine, and by open speech shall we not come to a quick and harmonious accord on this and other topics that have of late rent our friendship in twain?" With a slow sinuous motion, the lady Ischa swept her arm out towards her own maidens, and all but one of Ischa's train crept quietly and obediently across the darkening court till all but that one had disappeared behind the columns of the outer hall. That one was a tall, black female slave, her ebony head held as high as that of the princess Ischa herself, her half nude body clothed only in the scarlet and purple royal half robe of the Acadians, which glistened in the dim light of the palace halls. She bowed silently before her mistress, and with quiet speech in a deep and richly musical contralto voice, she said: "The light of the evening star goes not out except the sky be overcast entirely with the clouds of distrust and confusion. Let not my star risk her eclipse with clouds which may rise from the very sun itself. I kiss thy feet." The peculiar caress of the black woman on the sandalled foot of the lady Ischa was both a warning and a command, and the lady Ischa silently motioned to her slave to wait at some distance. The black princess, for such she was, arose proudly, and disdaining to sit or crouch, she removed herself at some distance and stood motionless as a statue leaning gracefully against a tall alabaster pillar which held at its apex a small statue of the goddess Ishtar. All of the attendants and servants of the lady Sarai had long since silently obeyed the sign of their mistresses' open palm leaving only Milcah; they had gone into the flowered courtyard there to sport in idle gossip and gay badinage with each other until the clapping of hands of their mistresses should recall them to their light duties. 
 "My lady Ischa," said Sarai, always willing to give the difficult first charge in any honorable encounter, "I have long wanted to have speech with you, for my heart is sore and my faith is tried with the things I am forced to see and hear in this our honored fore-father's home. We were children of two princesses, thou of Acadian blood, I of pure Shemite strain. My mother died when I was born, yours but three years later. Our fathers have lived and fought and sowed and planted in this our ancestral home for three generations. The great Satrap of this palace, the mighty Terah, is sire though twice or thrice removed, of all this household, save the servants, and our royal attendants. We have grown up at his kindly knees, and though his duty calls him to the wars of his earthly master, the mighty hunter of men, Nimrod, still he hath provided all his sons and daughters to the fourth generation with ample wealth, with all the ancient and modern forms of learning, so that we have found ourselves surrounded with a fortress of care and culture. We are the very rulers of this city of Ur, by reason of his high position, and because of his own long absences, and of the long absence of his formal representatives, Abram and Lot — " "Abram — yes, my princess," interrupted Ischa with a sudden show of vivid interest, "what of our kinsman Abram? Speak more of him." "Peace, my lady, interrupt me not till my story has proceeded to its point. With all the advantages that our forefather Terah hath given us, is it not seemly that we should retain the simple dignity and purity which has formed the bulwark of our traditions nay more of our religion itself?" The visitor paused for a reply, and with an effort, the lady Ischa reared herself lazily, and replied slowly, "My princess speaks of our duty to our father Terah, and in the same breath she rails out at the state religion of Assyria and Babylonia which hath been partially united by our most gracious and holy master and king — Nimrod — blessed be the name of Gilgamesh, of Merodach, and of Nimrod, which is one indivisible, elemental, supernal and mystic. Three in one, fair as the stars and terrible as the sun." Sarai looked in utter dismay at the speaker who recited all these heathen titles and qualities of the brutal ruler Nimrod as if Ischa were herself a very part of that corrupt court which now was determined to deify the rash apostate Nimrod because of his superhuman valor and cunning. She was both amazed and frightened. "Ischa, what are you saying? Do you mean to insinuate to me, your elder, and your queen by right of birth in this palace, that you have turned apostate to the religion of Noah, of Shem, of father Terah?" A PRINCE OF UR. 147 "Apostate — say you so?" cried out Ischa bitterly, in answer; "Who gave the priesthood and the sacred robe thereof to Ham, and he to Cush and he to Nimrod, if not our good father Noah himself? Out upon your scruples, my queen. Out upon your antiquated notions about religion. Shall I live in Babylon and not be one of her own children? Thou knowest full well that all this region hath long since been conquered by the mighty Nimrod, and that Terah himself is but a Satrap of the king. Speakest thou of Terah? Who hath commanded the images to be set up in these very palace courts? Who hath established a workshop in this very palace, and hath set the cunning of Azzi-jaama to fashion from bronze and stone and gold and iron the very images which makes my lady's eyes flash to behold, and her lips to boil as she speaks their names? Who but Terah?" "Thou sayest things that I cannot, will not believe. Terah hath permitted — permitted, I say — the images to be set up — he hath permitted, I say again permitted — Azzi-jaama to grave and tool the horrid gods from stone and gold to sell them to these crazy idol-worshipers. I will not hear you traduce our father Terah — it is wicked — " With a sudden sharp intake of breath, the lady Sarai ceased her speech. Over her now opened mind flooded a thousand confirmatory trifles to prove the truth of the assertions made so coldly and so brazenly by her kinswoman. Could it possibly be true? O, could it? Nay, it was! And with a sudden motion, she laid her head between her upthrown hands and arms and sat astonished. Out in the courtyard the silly chatter of the servants rose and fell with intermittent phrasing. There was babble of laughter, and the tinkle of water in the alabaster basins. While over all there poured an occasional chorus of song birds, those heaven-sent musicians, who sang as they listed nor sought nor found a quarrel with their melody. The Lady Ischa waited a long time. She had plunged her knife deep, she knew that, and she knew too, that from this very moment she had unmasked her own concealed batteries. Finally, — "My Lady Sarai," she purred, "thou hast come to read me a moral lesson. Let me tell thee some things that have been hid from thy glowing midnight eyes, sharp as they are, and much as thou thinkest they can see. You have spoken of our father Terah; he is a brave old soldier and for him I have the highest reverence. But when thou sayest that all religion but that taught by our simple-minded patriarchs Noah and Shem or Melchizedek is false and vile, thou sayest that which is narrow and full of bigotry. What matter what the road traveled, if it leadeth men to worship a god or a pantheon of them? They all satisfy the human craving for worship, and men are as different as are the stars in 
 heaven. There are gods many and lords many. Leave the Assyrian to worship his own, even if he thinks them encased in bodies of wood and stone, and stretch out the boundaries of thy own constricted and prejudiced soul to know that the God of heaven will understand His children better than thou." Sarai listened to this specious argument impatiently. But she had not come for argument but for an understanding. And it was thrust upon her with such violence and such convincing logic that she was in despair. She made no reply. But sat quite aghast upon her seat of gold and alabaster, while her arms covered her quivering features. "Be more like a woman and less like a frozen statue, Sarai. Thou art so self-righteous that thou hast no manner of charity for others who may be quite as good and as wise as thou." Still the Lady Sarai sat with covered face while the other poured vinegar into her wounds. "My lady, thou hast ever been the vast superior of all that dwelt within these walls. Thou hast preened thyself upon thy known superior beauty" — the Lady Sarai quivered as if she had been struck by her assailant's hand — "and thou hast ground my own poor face beneath thy heel for lo! these many years. We are not sisters of the blood, nor happily of the spirit, for I would loathe a god who could give place to such proud inner boastings as thou must oft indulge in. I am what I am. Disappointed that I must rank below thine own exalted self, made doubly unhappy because thou hast taken up thy privilege of exchange and barter in this free Assyrian city to make thyself rich in thine own right — for what could I do, with less talent and no wealth in hand to begin such enterprise to cope with all your many advantages? O, I know that thou art writhing in thy seat, my fair princess, but thou hast brought this on thyself with thus coming to give to me thy wondrous pity and advice. So drink it in, no matter if it burn like molten wax— for unlike wax, 'twill sear its way across thy heart and make thee forever doubtful of thyself, and of thine own supernal wisdom. And that will please me well." The princess Sarai rose, with a calm seemly dignity, and gathering her drapery about her, she began to glide out of the hall, without further speech. She was through. The serpent might sting, again and again but her own wounds were sufficient for her. Midway she was arrested. — "Knowest thou, my lady Sarai, that our kinsman Abram hath just returned from Salem? Ah, that hath caught thy wandering attention. He is here beneath this rooftree. He hath cut short his long thirty-year pilgrimage, and he enters this day upon his duties as Prince of Ur, or as vice-satrap of this palace. The king's foster son Mardon may not fancy his own humiliation. A PRINCE OF UR. 149 for Mardon hath a pretty spirit, but he must also give way to Abram, as his elder, as I must do to thee, my princess. And when Abram, who hath traveled far and wide, and who hath no doubt drunk deeply of the religion and culture of glorious Egypt, as well as the sleepy philosophies of Salem, when he knows of thine own narrow bigotry, he will join with father Terah and the prince Mardon to urge thee to shake off such groveling notions and ancient superstitions. Come, Princess, be ready to greet our kinsman Abram as he should be met." The princess Sarai stood riveted to the spot. Longing to hear more yet too proud to ask one single question, she did not turn her head, but after a moment, she glided swiftly away, beckoning Milcah and her maidens to follow her as she passed through the lattice work and across the wide courtyard. Alas, was the whole world upside down? Had she at last found herself alone in a world filled with men and women who despised such antiquated ideals as hers? Were her beliefs all wrong? Where had she failed to listen to the Good Spirit? What was her crime? What her weakness? She had felt this impending storm for a long time. She had seen the signs in the uplifted brows of those about her; she had noted a thousand secret eye-glances, whisperings, and half-heard words. Father Terah — it might all be true — she could not deny, much as she longed to do so. But at least she would hold her tongue nor permit herself one word of doubt or scorn against the kind and gracious old satrap. Was it for this she had labored to teach the children of the servants in her father's household? She had spent her days and nights in conscientious strivings to hold the simple truths of her fathers' close woven into the web and woof of their daily life about the palace. And how utterly she had failed. And Abram? He was even now within those walls. Well, she had no time to spend in speculation as to what her kingly kinsman thought upon these subjects, for all her own bright hopes and aims were tumbling about her ears, and she was desolate. Within, the lady Ischa reared herself craftily and paced up and down, up and down the long halls with impatient tread. She had held herself in check for months, although tempted almost beyond power of control, and now she waited only to know what stand her most coveted kinsman Abram would take in this distracted household. He was home — the mighty, mystic, nameless Prince Abram, the fair, the wise, the good — heralded in every court of the world as the philosopher without peer, the student without challenge. Abram, rich, titled, sought by princesses of every degree, handsome, powerful, magnetic — she would seek him out in the first hours of his return, and would try her every art (to be continued)