EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. MARCH, 1915. No. 3. THE DIGNITY OF TOIL. Recently there occurred in the morning A Scrub hours in a store on the main street of this Woman. city, a most terrible murder. And the thoughtless daily press reporters spoke contemptuously of the victim as a "scrub-woman." This woman was a member of the Church in good standing, her husband being in the missionary field as an ambassador of Christ. The good wife was supporting herself and child, and assisting him with her humble toil. The epithet applied to her shocked every Latter-day Saint woman. There is no occasion for anyone to shrink Honest Terms from honest work of any kind. Nor should for Honest anyone fail to use proper and respectful terms Work. to denote the various occupations in which people may engage. But, on the other hand, every American citizen resents opprobrious terms when applied to him or his occupation. This is especially true of the Latter-day Saints. Words are peculiarly elastic things. They are charged with a variety of meanings given to them by those who use them as daily symbols. A word that may originally EDITORIAL. 159 have had a special meaning, may have that meaning modified and even changed entirely by popular usage. By this test, such terms as "servants" and "scrub-women" are insulting and humiliating. There are good and respectable terms to use which no one resents; any one should be proud of the term "wage-earner," or "laborer," for all Saints should be laborers. In the name of every woman in this Church, we protest against the term "scrub woman.? The Insult to "Mormon" woman." We feel there is a need of sober Women. consideration and a possible readjustment of our social views, when our newspapers can so far forget the proprieties as to speak thus of one of our number. We are all workers, laborers, toilers. Our martyred sister should be dignified with our loving tributes, rather than that her dear ones shall be doubly saddened by so gross an insult. We are proud of our sex, and of our standing in this Church, and we ask our press and our associates to treat us ? the laboring women ? with the respect we feel we deserve. Let no son willingly humiliate another man's mother. There are only sisters and laborers in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints. There are no "scrub-women." NOTES. The following books can be obtained at Relief Society Headquarters: Genealogical pencil note books. $ .10 Genealogical Universal lesson books Salvation ' . . . .15 10 Art Book 1.25 Please write proper names of subscribers clearly and give full postoffice address. Many mistakes have occurred through the lack of care on the part of our kind friends who have sent us subscription lists to the Magazine. When mistakes do occur, report them at once to the Business Manager of the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II ? Repentance. (a) The First Fruit of Faith. (b) A Gift from God. (c) The Spirit of God and the Holy Ghost. (d) Real Repentance. (e) Damnation no Part of the Gospel. (f) Sin, a Wilful Transgression of Law. (g) Condemnation Measured by Culpability, (h) Some Souls Incapable of Repentance, 1. What is the result of a cognizance of sin? 2. How can we obtain faith? 3. Do you see any difference between the Holy Ghost and the Spirit of the Lord? 4. What is real repentance? 5. What is the "Mormon" idea of damnation? 6. What can you say of sin? 7. When we transgress a law, what is the result? 8. How far are we to blame for our sins? 9. When is a man unable to repent? REPENTANCE. The First Fruit of Faith. ? The first fruit of faith is repentance. Repentance follows as naturally as kindness follows love, as obedience springs from reverence, as a desire to be congenial with, succeeds admiration for, one whose example is deemed worthy of emulation. God commands all men everywhere to repent. A desire to please Him and become acceptable in His sight, leads the soul of faith to repentance. A Gift from God. ? No repentance is possible, however, without the Spirit of the Lord, which "giveth light to every man that