Kitchen Kinks. GOOD FLOUR. Few housekeepers select flour by examination. Usually they take some brand tried and recommended by a friend, or by the grocer who furnishes them with their supplies. There is really no rule to be given by which an inexperienced cook can determine with accuracy the good grades of flour. A few hints, however, will enable any one to know what not to buy. Never buy flour that has a bluish tint and will not adhere to the hand when pressed in the palm. Poor flour can be blown about easily; sometimes a poor grade has a grey, dingy look, as if mixed with cement. Good flour adheres to the hand, and when pressed, shows the prints of the fingers and lines in the palms of the hand; its color is a soft, creamy white. Flour should be purchased annually, where possible in quantities corresponding with the size or number in the family. Care should be taken in storing flour, as dampness causes it to lump and mould, and it will soon become unfit for use. It should be kept dry and cool, and out of the reach of mice, rats and the meal moth— the meal moth is more to be dreaded than either mice or rats. GLUTEN. The proportion of gluten in wheat, and consequently in flour, varies greatly. Flour in which gluten is abundant will absorb much more liquid than that which contains a greater proportion of starch, and consequently such flour is richer, that is, will make more bread to a given quantity. Gluten forms flesh, while starch is a heat-producer in the nutritive process of the body. There is a great difference of opinion as to the comparative merits of bread made from fine flour, and graham or whole-wheat flour. The latter is certainly best for those who lead sedentary lives, as the coarse particles stimulate the digestive organs, and indeed the whole alimentary tract, causing the fluids to flow more freely; while for those who follow active, out-of-door pursuits, the fine flour bread is probably best, being more nutritive and economical, because quickly and easily assimilated. It is well for every family to have on hand a constant supply of wheat flour, and rye flour, and corn meal, in order that a change may be made. Most people find the rye and corn meal bread very palatable and health-promoting. 
 BREAD-MAKING. The old saying that "bread is the staff of life" has very sound reason in it. Flour made from wheat, rye, oats and Indian corn are all rich in the waste repairing elements. Starch and albumen really head the list of articles of food for mankind. Good bread makes the homeliest and coarsest meal acceptable and appetizing to those who love bread, while the most delicious meal is intolerable without it. Light, crisp rolls, muffins or toast for breakfast, sweet light, spongy bread for dinner, and airy flaky biscuit for supper — these cover a multitude of culinary sins. There is no one thing on which the health and comfort of the family so much depends as on good, wholesome home-made bread. Opinions may differ as to what constitutes good bread, as much as tastes differ on any other culinary duty, etc., but all will agree that bread to be good must be light, sweet; free from acid, or any yeasty taste, and should not be a soggy or doughy mass. To obtain the best results, use the best grade of flour, as in families when there is no waste the best is the cheapest. Bread-making seems a simple process, but after all, it requires careful, delicate manipulating and watching from start to finish. The pinch or guessing system must be done away with, and a careful method of weights and measures used, instead. Do not put dough in cold or drafty places if you expect good results, and after all, that is what the thorough practical housewife is aiming for — good results. There are many things in bread-making which require careful observation. We may have access to and use the best receipts (these are invaluable aids), but experience and care is required before any woman can acquire the much coveted name "a good bread-maker." Four things are indispensable, — good flour, good yeast, watchful care, and sifted flour. After the flour, comes the yeast or "raising" of which there are several kinds, the dry yeast, the compressed yeast, or the potato yeast. I presume the home-made potato yeast is the one most generally liked, and has the least chance of leaving taste in the bread if an over-abundance should be used. If you use milk to mix the bread with it should be scalded and partly cooled, as when the liquid is too hot, the bread is coarse. In hot weather, do not mix the bread too early in the evening, as it is likely to run over or sour, before time for baking. By mixing early in the morning, placing in a nice warm place, well covered, and out of the draft, you will, in from one to three hours have your bread ready to knead for the first time. Bread made with milk, is, of course, more nutritious, but will not keep so long as bread made from water. For experiment let us try bread KITCHEN KINKS. 109 made from milk and bread made from water recipes, and see which we most relish: Bread recipe using either milk or water: 4 quarts of flour, or 3 sifters. 3 tablespoons butter fat. 3 tablespoons sugar. 3 pints scalded milk (cooled). 1 compressed yeast cake, soaked in two tablespoons of lukewarm water. 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Or, if preferable, use one part water and one part milk. Bread must be kneaded until it is free from lumps and does not adhere to pan or hands. Let rise until it doubles its bulk. Then knead, shape into loaves, let rise, until it doubles its bulk again, which, under favorable conditions required one to one and one-fourth hours. The important point now is to see that the oven is in proper condition, and while there is no definite rule to be given for each individual stove or range, there is one given rule which applies to, and must be observed, which is to have a moderate steady heat, and the placing of a piece of white writing paper in the oven ten minutes before time for baking will if warm enough, turn a delicate brown; then place in the bread, watch carefully for the first ten minutes, let the crust begin to brown, and from now on, it should steadily increase in color until a beautiful brown is obtained. An application of steady, quiet heat, will reward you with four or five loaves of sweet well cooked digestible bread. In our next issue, we will give a recipe for rolls, yeast powder biscuits, muffins, nut bread, corn bread, and the good old-fashioned salt rising bread like "mother used to make." A LABOR-SAVING COAL BUCKET. The bucket is constructed by cutting a hole the full width in the upper part of one side on a square 1-gallon oil can, making the cut extend four inches down and allowing one-fourth inch of the material to turn in all around to prevent injuring the hands. Such a bucket holds more than the usual amount of fuel that is put on a fire at one time, and it will not spill over the edges while pouring the coal into the stove. It does away with carrying and lifting a heavy bucket of fuel — a job that most women dread — when only a few shovelfuls are needed. — Contributed by L. E. Turner, New York City.