Genealogy. IMPORTANCE OF INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY HISTORIES. The Prophet Joseph Smith made the following remarks in the 17th meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. "President Joseph Smith said he had one remark to make respecting the baptism for the dead — to suffice for the time being until he has opportunity to discuss the subject to greater length — that is all persons baptized for the dead must have a recorder present, that he may be an eyewitness to testify of it. "It will be necessary in the grand council, that these things be testified of, let it be attended to from this time, for if there is any lack, it may be at the expense of our friends — they may not come forth, etc." These words should burn themselves into our memories, so that they can never be effaced. They were spoken to the women of the Relief Society and we repeat to these women the solemn injunction there laid down. Let us be sure that we do not rise up on the morning of the resurrection and find that we have neglected our most important life's duty. The person who is first awakened to the principle of salvation for the dead is necessarily concerned at once with the vital necessity of securing the records of his dead ancestors; but there are two reasons why such a person should begin with his own individual record. The first reason is that it is better to begin with the known and go back to the unknown. The second reason is that his records will be just as important to his descendants as his ancestors' records are to him. If you learn how to get out your own records, if you discover the form in which to group your own family and acquaint GENEALOGY. 155 yourself with a system of numbering, of heirship, and relationship for your living family — as practiced by the Genealogical Society of Utah — you will be well prepared afterwards to take up the records of your kindred dead, and get them into similar shape. Your own dates and facts are so well known to yourself that you become careless about recording them. Many people have an exaggerated sense of modesty and feel that whatever pertains to themselves is of little consequence. On the contrary, everything that pertains to one individual — genealogically speaking— is just as important as everything that concerns every other individual. It is as important, for instance, that my grandchildren shall know the day, the month, and the year when I was born, as it is that I shall have those facts concerning my grandmother. The individual is an integral part of the family, and of the community; he is a link in the family chain, which, lacking him, would be impossible to fasten up. Many of the foolish Puritans who emigrated from England to America when this land was discovered, burned up their records in an excess of religious frenzy. What a tremendous loss to their American descendants. Each family chain might be said to be as strong as its weakest link. The family is made up of a group of individuals; therefore the family history should begin with the history of the individual who writes that history. Our next lesson will concern itself with a family form, in which to prepare this group. The family record book, which was prepared by Elder Duncan McAllister for the Genealogical Society, can be furnished by that Society for $1.25; or the Deseret News Book Store will furnish it for the same price. During this month, we suggest to the sisters that they secure every possible date concerning themselves, birth, marriage, baptism, removals from one town to another, birth dates of all children, marriage and death dates, and date of every ordinance received in the temples, and all appointments to office in the Relief Society, as well as every other interesting fact in the life of each of you who take this lesson. Have that ready for next month, when we will take up Family Group Forms.