Current Topics. STATE. The usual crop of recommendations and applications for new State bureaus, commissions and officers has come up to the legislators this season. More officers, more salaries, more taxes, with little necessity for any one, is a view which people generally take of the situation. Appointment of county assessors by a state board appointive in itself means taking away from the people, to a much more distant point than now, the means of safeguarding themselves against excessive assessments and taxes. The voters generally feel that they can choose these officers quite as wisely as can any state board which has a merely secondary responsibility to the electorate, and with much greater satisfaction to themselves. With less snow in the mountains, until late in the winter season, than has been known in many years, considerable anxiety is expressed throughout the intermountain region regarding the water supply for the coming summer. The fact that this anxiety has ample foundation should be a suggestion for an early husbanding of the supply, and also for providing against emergencies in food necessities that follow drought. Assessment of property at its "full cash value" is being urged upon the Utah legislators as a remedy for tax ills, and there is promised a reduction in tax levy to offset the apparent increase. Experience has shown that with the tax-gatherer anxious to "make a record" for big returns, the "full cash value" is invariably excessive, and the plea of reduced levy never has been worked into actual practice, because impracticable under the public demand for money which always exists. Idaho now manifests a revulsion against much recent legislation, the chief cause of this change being the excessive burdens which have come to the farmer and small home-owner through the application of the "full cash value" theory. Inquiries are made why the "Mormon" communities, especially the Relief Society, do not combine in their particular localities with the various associations for international charity. The founder of the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith, instructed the local organizations that their "administrations should CURRENT TOPICS. 151 be confined to the circle of their immediate acquaintance." As to any more extended action, the "Mormon" Church organization operates as a unit in such matters, as illustrated by its call upon all its ward, mission and branch organizations to observe January 24 as a day for special contributions for the needy of Europe; and the Church organization will see to it that these contributions reach their destination without loss to an expense account. U. S. Consul R. J. Thompson, now in Germany, having observed the young "Mormon" missionaries, in different parts of Europe, predicts that in a generation or two Utah will become the most highly civilized state in the American Union as a result of the clean, manly, purposeful energy shown by this type of young men, and those who are attracted to them, and thereby become contributions to the population and life of Utah as the best to be found in foreign lands. This prediction should be a forceful suggestion to the mothers of "Mormonism" not to falter in their duty of training their sons in the clean, manly, upright life which has called forth such encomium from an experienced and observant government official. NATIONAL. Dr. Charles Austin Beard, of Columbia College, New York, expresses the opinion that the American people are not fitted for self-government. He must concede that a large proportion of them at least feel capable of governing others to their own satisfaction, if not to the satisfaction of the governed portion of their fellow citizens. The big political parties in the United States bid fair to be reduced one-third in number before the next national election, since the Progressive party in various states is rapidly coalescing with the Republican party, under the name and leadership of the latter. The vital effect this will have in the selection of the next President of the United States gives to the movement its present chief interesting feature. Many promises have been made of a return of business prosperity throughout the country. The masses of the people are now awaiting with some anxiety, material evidence of the return of that much desired prosperity, before deciding in their own minds whether or not those leaders who make the promises are to be relied upon as trustworthy prognosticators. Let the prodigal Miss Prosperity make her appearance at the earliest moment possible. 
 The "ship purchase bill" before Congress means, in brief, the purchasing of a "flying fleet" to carry American products at lower rates than private shipping companies offer, until the European war ceases, and also money payments to those belligerents whose vessels may be interned in American ports; this to be done by the government direct. Such evidently temporary expedient, and the probable breach of neutrality which would follow the purchase of ships from one warring nation to the injury of another such nation, give the basis of the determined opposition to the scheme. INTERNATIONAL. With the greatest war in history raging; with each of the nations engaged able to put in the field practically double the number of fighting men now there; and with the opening of spring for more active operations in about sixty days, there appears a strong prospect of slaughter that will comprise its millions of victims before the carnage is ended. Then the pestilence which is sure to follow when the heat of summer comes on many a battlefield where lie the unburied and half-buried slain, and the famine already claiming its thousands of victims and scarcely yet inaugurated, all mark an era of devastation, destitution and depopulation, in Europe, such as never before has been contemplated. Truly it is a "beginning of sorrows" that is sufficient to appall the stoutest heart among humanitarians. It is interesting to note that while the Jews have been gathering to Palestine, in recent years, they are now leaving in great numbers to find refuge in Egypt, whence their forefathers were delivered, and where the child Jesus found temporary safety. With the bulk of Palestinian Jews in Egypt, under British protection, when the "times of the Gentiles" referred to by the Master shall have been fulfilled (which event seems now close at hand) their return to Palestine, and their unification there with other Jews from among the present warring nations, will be accomplished much more readily and under far more satisfactory conditions than appear to have been within reach under any other line of circumstances that have arisen since the dawn of the Christian era.