MASONIC LODGE, NAUVOO, Where the Relief Society was Organized, March 17, 1842. This building was originally three stories high. The Masonic Lodge room or hall was in the third story. The original windows in the lower story were square, as if arranged for a store. The steps, now on the right side, were originally in the center, and a large double door faced them. The half circle window tops now on the lower story, were taken from the third story windows. Picture furnished by Mr. Rheimbold, Proprietor Oriental Hotel, Nauvoo, Ill. 
 Instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. We here present some precious truths and suggestions given to the women in Nauvoo by our honored THE SONG OF THE WHEAT Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Words by S. Y. G. Music by Evan Stephens. [Sheet music notation follows] THE women of the Relief Society have responded nobly to the appeal for subscriptions to this magazine. Even the missions have taken up the work, the North Western States Mission sending in nearly two hundred paid up subscriptions. This magazine is designed for every officer and member of the society, and hopes to give every subscriber value received in live, up-to-date articles on our work and activities, as well as fiction, poetry and travel articles. Are you a subscriber? If not, why not? SALT LAKE CITY UTAH The shoe store for the whole family— and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE Scrace's Bakery and Cafe Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A Good Place to Eat. E. L. SAUNDERS, Proprietor Phone Wasatch 1230 24 South Main Street THE purpose of the UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK at all times is to render SALT LAKE CITY helpful service and UTAH make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction What is Home The Thomas Studio Without Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THE SATURDAY NEWS McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $3.00 Salt Lake City W. N. Williams, Supt. R. N. Wilson, Asst. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y and Treas. GUARANTEED FURNITURE AT LOWEST PRICES Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT FURNITURE CO-OP Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. CO. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design — beautiful in finish — pure and sweet, rich and full in tone — the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Jensens Butters Honest butters honestly priced! To secure the largest amount of butter satisfaction obtainable, you must specify these butters. "Blanchard" is the standard size print. "Four in-One" is four quarter size prints. Your grocer sells both. Jensen Creamery Company Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. School Shoes for Boys They keep the feet warm and dry save unnecessary suffering and doctor's expense. "MOUNTAINEER" and "THE LEADER" Overalls Don't Rip, are Honestly Made. R. S. SEAL Supplies for Temple POST CARDS Uses Mothers who write to missionary sons, girls who write to Those who desire neat, attractsweethearts, school girls who keep mothers posted, send for tive and moderate-priced articles our beautiful Relief Society for rent or purchase, for use in Card; 5 cents each. the Temple, should apply to Address — MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY, Relief Society Headquarters, 180 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. HOME VISITORS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Relief Society Housekeepers. Do you want better homes? ATTENTION Brighter children? Then plan to attend the ROUND UP at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE January 18th to 30th, Logan Utah Great Agricultural and Economic Lights which will shine there: C. B. SMITH, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. DR. S. H. BAILEY, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. DR. D. A. BRODIE, U. S. Department of Agriculture MRS. NELLIE KEDZIE JONES (Kansas)— Care of Children. MRS. VERNETTA T. MORRIS (Chicago)— Art in the Home. Vol. II MARCH, 1915 No. 3 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ORGANIZATION NUMBER EXTRA ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT Wo Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY The Xmas Store for Men and Boys Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course. UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE GARDNER & ADAMS CO. IN THE KEARNS BUILDING We give and redeem Security Vouchers Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL On Our Smart Line of at reasonable Prices SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS Have you seen our new handker- GOODWIN CORSETS chiefs and neckwear? This ad. will redeem 1 0 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assist- ant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of ex- periments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. , SALT LAKE In January, nineteen hundred and fifteen, A book came forth: The Relief Society Magazine, Organ of great worth. From the heart of the Rockies It burst into view, Pure and sweet, as the mountain dew. Of foster mothers it has a score. And over the leaf I find three more. Lovely women, noble and good, Backed by the fathers, and the priesthood. Blessed by a prophet, recorded and named A friend of the. poor, the needy or maimed. It is mentally strong, and perfect in limb. a "him"). and theor Nation, it's a "her" not know toif State do welcome (I is It And though I am only a poor old relation, I can send it at least, my dollar a year. For its future development I have no fear. I will watch it grow, like a small, planted seed, To give us brain food in our time of need. Like a carrier dove, to every sphere, With its message of love, afar and near, I can see it achieve a future so great That it's sought for in every nation and state, Welcomed" by all; in castle or cot, It belongs to us all, and caste is forgot. Don't hurry its growth; give it chances to. grow. -, Sturdy and strong, although it be slow. But there, you will need no advice of mine. For some of its mothers are doctors divine. You may object to my rhyming, and will, without doubt, So I give you leave to cut it all out. My thoughts are much better than my knowledge of rule. As I helped push a handcart when I should been at school. But God knows all things, so I have no fear; I have filled up my niche, as a good pioneer. I ask God to bless our baby again. With its message of peace, and good will to men.  MASONIC LODGE, NAUVOO, Where the Relief Society was Organized, March 17, 1842. This building was originally three stories high. The Masonic Lodge room or hall was in the third story. The original windows in the lower story were square, as if arranged for a store. The steps, now on the right side, were originally in the center, and a large double door faced them. The half circle window tops now on the lower story, were taken from the third story windows. Picture furnished by Mr. Rheimbold, Proprietor Oriental Hotel, Nauvoo, Ill. 
 Instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. We here present some precious truths and suggestions given to the women in Nauvoo by our honored prophet. They touch upon every phase of our work and the mission of woman. Some things herein have appeared in the old volumes of the Woman's Exponent; some have never before been printed. We are sure you will enjoy every word, as it is all designed for the women of this Society. April 28, 1842. Lodge Room, Nauvoo. President Joseph Smith arose and called the attention of the meeting to I Cor. 12, "Now, concerning spiritual gifts," etc. He said that the passage which reads, "No man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost," should be translated, "No man can know," etc. He continued to read the chapter and give instructions respecting the different offices, and the necessity of every individual acting in the place allotted to him or to her; and filling the several offices to which they were appointed. He spoke of the disposition of men to consider the lower offices in the Church dishonorable, and to look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others — that it was the nonsense of the human heart for a person to be aspiring to other stations than appointed of God — that it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, "Come up higher." He said the reason of these remarks being made was, that some little thing was circulating in the Society that some persons were not doing right in laying hands on the sick, etc. He' said if he had common sympathies he would rejoice that the sick could be healed; that the time had not been before when these things could be in their proper order — that the Church is not now organized in 
 its proper order — and cannot be until the temple is completed. President Smith continued the subject by adverting to the commission given to the ancient apostles, "Go ye into all the world," etc. No matter who believes these signs, such as healing the sick, casting out devils, etc., the signs should follow all that believe, whether male or female. He asked the society if they could not see by this sweeping stroke that wherein they are called, it is the privilege of those set apart to administer in the authority which is conferred on them; and if the sisters should have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their tongues, and let everything roll on. He said if God has appointed him, and chosen him as an instrument to lead the Church, why not let him lead it through? Why stand in the way when he is appointed to do a thing? Who knows the mind of God? Does He not reveal things differently from what we expect? He remarked that he was continually rising; although he had everything bearing him down, standing in his way and opposing; after all, he always came out right in the end. Respecting the females laying on hands, he further remarked there could be no evil in it. If God gave his sanction by healing, there could be no more sin in any female laying hands on the sick than in wetting the face with water — that it is no sin for anybody to do it who has faith — or if the sick have faith to be healed by the administration. He reproved those who were disposed to find fault with the management of concerns — saying that if he had undertaken to. lead the Church he would lead it right — that he intended to organize the Church in its proper order, etc. President Smith continued by speaking of the difficulties he had to surmount ever since the commencement of the work in consequence of aspiring, "great big elders," as he called them, who had caused him much trouble, whom he had taught in the private Council, and they would go forth into the world and proclaim the things he had taught them, as their own revelations — the same aspiring dispositions will be in this society, and must be guarded against — that every person should stand and act in the place appointed, and thus sanctify the society and get it pure. He said he had been trampled under foot by aspiring elders, for all were infected by that spirit, for instance had been aspiring — they could not be exalted, but must run away, as though the care and authority of the Church were vested in them — he said he had a subtle devil to deal with, and could only curb him by being humble. He said as he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct the Society and point out the way for them to conduct it, that they might act according to the will of God — that he did not know that he should have many opportunities of teaching them, — that they INSTRUC710NS OF THE PROPHET. 93 were going to he left to themselves — that they would not long have him to instruct them — that the Church would not have his instructions long, and the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings — he spoke of delivering the keys of this Society and of the Church — that according to his prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in, those whom God had chosen to honor, whom God has placed at the head to lead — that we should arm them with our prayers — that the keys of the kingdom are about to be given to the leaders — that they may be able to detect everything false. You must put down iniquity and by your own example provoke the elders to good works; if you do right there is no danger of going too fast. He said he did not care how fast we run in the path of virtue. Resist evil and there is no danger. God, men, angels, and devils can't condemn those who resist everything that is evil — as well might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as the soul that resists everything that is evil. The Charitable Society, this is according to your natures — it is natural for females to have feelings of charity — you are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privilege, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates — females, if they are pure and innocent, can come into the presence of God, for what is more pleasing to God than innocence? You must be innocent or you cannot come up before God; let us be pure ourselves. The devil has great power — he will so transform things as to make one gape at those who are doing the will of the Lord. You need not be tearing men down for their good deeds, but let the weight of innocence be felt which is more mighty than a millstone hung around the neck. Not war, not jangle, not contradiction, but meekness, love, purity, these are the things that should magnify us. Evil must be brought to light — iniquity must be purged out — then the veil will be rent, and the blessings of heaven will flow down — they will roll down like the Mississippi river. After this instruction you will be responsible for your own sins. It is an honor to save yourselves — all are responsible to save themselves. President Smith, after reading from the above-mentioned chapter, continued to give instruction respecting the order of God as established in the Church, saying that everyone should aspire to magnify his own office, etc. He then commenced reading the 15th chapter, "Though I 
 speak with the tongues of men," etc., and said, Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtues, but be limited towards your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than others. You must enlarge your soul toward others, if you would do like Jesus, and carry your fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom. He said he had been l6ng-suffering, and we must all be patient. President Smith then read, "Though I have the gift of prophecy," etc. He said that though one should become mighty, do great things, overturn mountains, etc., and should then turn to eat and drink with the drunken, all former deeds would not save him, but he would go to destruction. As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand — let them be enlarged towards others — you must be long-suffering and bear with the faults and errors of mankind. How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this society teach wives how to act to\yards husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm THE MANSION HOUSE, NAUVOO. HOME OF THE PROPHET. INSTRUCTIONS OF THE PROPHET. 95 down his soul and soothe his feelings. When the mind is going to despair it needs a solace. This Society is to get instructions through the order which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, and now I turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time — this is the beginning of better days to this Society. When you go home never give a cross word, but let kindness, charity and love crown your work henceforward. Don't envy sinners. Have mercy on them — let your labors be confined, mostly, to those around you in your own circles; as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world. But your administrations should be confined to the immediate circles of your acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Society. Those appointed to lead the society are authorized to call others to different offices as the circumstances shall require. If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your own tongue. Do not indulge too much in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take advantage of the innocent. You may speak in tongues for your comfort, but I lay this down for a rule, that if anything is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be received for doctrine. The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by those present on that interesting occasion. Eliza R. Snow, Secretary. May 26, 1843. President Smith, the Prophet, then arose, read Ezekiel 14. He said the Lord had declared by that Prophet that the people should each one stand for himself and depend on no man or men in that state of corruption of the Jewish church — that righteous persons could only deliver their own souls. Applied it to the present condition of the Church of Latter-day Saints. If the people depart from the Lord, they must fall; they were depending on man, hence were darkened in their minds from neglect of themselves — they were envious towards the innocent, while they afflict the virtuous with their shafts of envy. There is another error which opens the door for the adversary to enter. A female possesses refined feelings and sensitiveness; they are also subject to an overmuch zeal, which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be rigid in a religious capacity. They should be armed with mercy. Where there is a mountain top, there is also a valley. We should act in all things as a proper medium to every immortal spirit. Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not from self-importance grieve and oppress needlessly those unfortunate ones; even these should be encouraged to hereafter live to be honored by 
 this Society, who are the best portions of the community. Said he had two things to commend to the Society; first to put a double watch over the tongue. No organized body can exist without this. All organized bodies have their peculiar weaknesses and difficulties— the object is to make those not so good, equal with the good, and hold the keys of power which will influence to goodness and virtue. Second, you should chasten and reprove and then keep it all in silence; not even to mention the matter again; if you will do this you will be established in power, holiness and virtue, and the wrath of God will be turned away. He had one request to make of the president and the Society: that you search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member, hold your tongues about things of no moment — a little tale will set the world on fire. If we were brought to desolation the disobedient would find no help. There are some who are obedient, yet men cannot steady the ark — my arm can not do it— God must steady it. FATHER SMITH S HOME, NAUVOO. Place where the Mummies were kept. June 9, 1842. President Joseph Smith opened the meeting by prayer; and proceeded to address the congregation on the doings of the Society. He said it is no matter how fast the Society increases if all are virtuous. We must be as particular with regard to the character of members as when the Society first started. Sometimes persons wished to put themselves into a society of this kind, but when they do not intend to pursue the ways of purity and righteousness, that the Society cannot be a shelter to them in their wickedness. President Smith said that henceforth no person should be admitted, but by presenting regular petitions signed by two or INSTRUCTIONS OF THE PROPHET. 97 three members in good standing in the Society — whoever comes in must be of good report. He said he was going to preach mercy. Supposing that Jesus Christ and angels should object to us on frivolous things, what would become of us? We must be merciful and overlook small things. By union of feeling we obtain power with God. Christ said he came to call sinners to repentance and save them. Christ was condemned by the righteous Jews because he took sinners into his society to reform them; he took them upon the principle that they repented of their sins. It is the object of this Society to reform, those persons, not to take those that are corrupt; but if they repent, we are bound to take them, and by kindness sanctify them and cleanse them from all unrighteousness your influence in watching over them — nothing will have such influence over people as the fear of being disfellowshiped by so goodly a Society as this. Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness. When persons manifest the least tenderness and love towards me, O what power it has over my mind, while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and to depress my mind. It is one evidence that men are unacquainted with the principle of godliness to behold their contraction of feeling and lack of charity. The power and glory of godliness is spread out in a broad principle, as if to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sinned, there must be an allowance for them. All the religious idea is boasting of righteousness — it is the doctrine of the devil to retard the human mind and retard our progress by filling us with self-righteousness. The nearer we get to our heavenly Father, the more we are disposed to serve him. The more prone we are to look with compassion on perishing souls — to take them upon our shoulders and cast their sins behind our backs, I am going to talk to all the society. If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another. President Smith then referred them to the conduct of the Savior when he was taken and crucified, etc. He then made a promise in the name of the Lord saying that the soul that has righteousness enough to ask God in a secret place for life, every day of his or her life, shall live to threescore years and ten. We must walk uprightly all day long. How glorious are the principles of righteousness. We are full of selfishness — the devil flatters us that we are very righteous, while we are feeding on the faults of others. We can only live by worshiping our God — all must do it for themselves, none can do it for another. How mildly the Savior dealt with Peter, saying that "when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." At another time he said to him, "lovest thou me?" "feed my sheep." If the sisters love the 
 Lord, let them feed the sheep and not destroy them. How oft have wise men and women sought to dictate to Brother Joseph, by saying, "Oh, if I were in Brother Joseph's shoes." They would find that men could not be compelled in the kingdom of God, but must be dealt with with long-suffering, and at last we shall save them. "The way to keep all the Saints together and keep the work rolling is to wait with all long-suffering till God shall bring such characters to justice; there should be no licenses for sin, but mercy should go hand in hand with reproof. Sisters of this Society, shall there he strife among you? I will not have it— you must repent and get the love of God. Away with self-righteousness. The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants — the Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save the soul." President Smith then said that he would give a lot of land to the Society by deeding it to the treasurer, that the Society may build houses for the poor. He also said that he would give a house — frame not finished, said that Brother Gaboon will move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the Society can pay him by giving orders on the store — that it was a good plan to set those to work who were owing widows and thus let them make an effort to pay the debt, etc. President Joseph Smith opened the meeting by addressing the Society. He commenced by expressing his happiness and thankfulness for the privilege of being present on this occasion. He said great exertions had been made on the part of our enemies, but they had not accomplished their purpose. God had enabled him to keep out of their hands — he had warred a good deal inasmuch as he had whipped out all of Bennett's host — his feelings at the present were relieved inasmuch as the. Lord Almighty had preserved him today. He said it reminded him of the Savior, when he said to the Pharisees, Go ye and tell that fox, "Behold I cast out devils, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected," etc. He said that he expected that the heavenly Father had decreed that the Missourians shall not get him. President Smith continued by saying, "I shall triumph over mine enemies — I have begun to triumph over them at home, and I shall do it abroad — all those who shall rise up against me shall feel the weight of their iniquity upon their own heads — those who speak evil are abominable characters and full of iniquity — all the fuss and all the stir against me is like the jack o' lantern; it cannot be found. Although I do wrong, I do not do the wrong I am charged with doing. The wrongs that I, like other men, do are through the frailty of human nature. No man lives without fault. Do you think that even Jesus, if he were here, would be without INSTRUCTIONS OP THE PROPHET. 99 fault in your eyes? They said all manner of evil against him — they all watched for iniquity. How easy it was for Jesus to call out all the iniquity of the hearts of those whom he was among? The servants of the Lord are required to guard against those things that are calculated to do the most evil — the little foxes spoil the vines — little evils do the most iniquity to the Church. If you have evil feelings and speak of them to one another, it has a tendency to do mischief. When I do the best I can — when I am accomplishing the greatest good, then the most evils are gotten up against me. I have come here to bless you. The Society has done well. Their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much. Let them not cease to ascend to God in my behalf. . The enemy will never get away — I expect he will array everything against me — I expect a tremendous warfare. He that will war the Christian warfare will have the angels of devils, and all the infernal powers of darkness, continually arrayed against him. When wicked and corrupt men oppose, it is a criterion to judge if a man is warring the Christian warfare. When all men speak evil of you, blessed are you, etc. Shall a man be considered bad when a wicked man speaks evil of him? No. If a man stand and oppose a world of sin, he may expect all things arrayed against him. But it will be but a little season, and all these afflictions will be turned away from us, inasmuch as we are faithful and are not overcome by these evils, by seeing the blessings of the endowment rolling on, and the kingdom increasing and spreading from sea to sea; we will rejoice that we were not overcome by these foolish things. President Smith then remarked that a few things had been revealed to him in his absence respecting the baptisms for the dead, which he should communicate next Sabbath, if nothing should occur to prevent. Later. — President Smith said he had one remark to make respecting the baptism for the dead— to suffice for the time being, until he has opportunity to discuss the subject to greater length — that is, all persons baptised for the dead must have a recorder present, that he may be an eye witness to testify of it. It will be necessary in the grand council, that these things be testified of; let it be attended to from this time, for if there is any lack it may be at the expense of our friends — they may not come forth, etc. 1276 names were enrolled as members. The recorded receipts were $415.24.