[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Gospel in the Relief Driggs]
GENERAL SESSION, MORNING OF OCTOBER 4, 1945
The Gospel in the Relief Society Educational Program
Elder Howard R. Driggs
I HAVE never faced in all my life so many good and beautiful women. It is an honor and privilege to stand before you, and I humbly pray to God to help me to say those things that will lift us all to higher levels as I am lifted this morning by this occasion. The keynote of what I should like to say is to be found in a song we all love to sing, "Thanks for our teachers who labor with care, that we in the light of the gospel may shine." No other word occurs more frequently or is echoed more beautifully throughout all our scriptures than the word "light." The Savior said, "I am the light and the life," and he advised us to let our
light so shine that a man seeing our good deeds would glorify God, who is in heaven.
If the teacher has one purpose above another, it is to radiate light. It is to illumine truth; it is to lead souls out of the darkness into the light. I think no more beautiful story has ever come to me as to the real work of the teacher than that found in the life story of Helen Keller. As a little girl, Helen Keller enjoyed one brief period of sunshine, of flowers, of bird song, of home joys. Then, suddenly, through dread illness, she was plunged, by being bereft of sight and hearing, into what she called "a prison house of darkness."
GENERAL  As she came back to consciousness out of that disease, she said she was beating the bars of that physical prison, trying to get back into the light. Yet in that darkness, she might have remained, "had not she come, my teacher, who was to set my spirit free/' Anna Suhi-van, a devoted, understanding, loving teacher, took that little human soul and led her back into the sunshine. She placed in her hands, literally, the key of language to open the prison house. She brought her forth into glorious womanhood, where she could make her contribution magnificently to the world.
Every one of US is a teacher, either by example or precept, or both.
Every human being is teaching other human beings. It is true that officers and teachers of great organizations such as this are called especially to the privilege.
That doesn't take away the duty and the opportunity of everyone of us to lead souls into the light.
This is especially true of gospel teachers. Our constant effort should be to make the world brighter, not only today but for all time. We should ever remember this, that so far as the teaching, of the gospel is concerned, the spirit of the gospel is "caught," rather than "taught." One cannot impart the spirit of the gospel by mere words or by a recital of facts.
What is in you radiates from you. The Apostle Paul called our attention to this very picturesquely when he said, "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal." We carry the spirit of the gospel with us, or we do not. If we carry it with us, those around us catch the light of our illumination. It matters not whether we represent an arc light or one of less candle power, our business is to light up the dark corners where we happen to be.
Dear old Dr. Maeser, with whom I was privileged to associate in the long ago years, said this once to a class of teachers in training: "You can't teach even arithmetic most successfully unless you radiate something of the spirit of the gospel." It is a challenging assertion, but it is true. Oh, of course there are teachers who seem to radiate little or none of the spirit of the gospel, but they would do better with that spirit, and they are always excelled by those teachers who combine intellect and spirituality. NOW, to your educational program. The Relief Society, in its marvelous way, has spread before its members and its officers and all the world, a well-rounded program touching the various phases of basic life.
Every lesson that you teach goes to its highest level only when it is taught with a testimony of the gospel in your hearts.
Even in your work meetings, where, with nimble fingers, sisters gather around a quilt and begin to sew, and generally to talk, if the spirit of the gospel is not in that spontaneous expression and in the hearts of those who are doing the work, there is something of vital worth lacking.
Many a lesson in gospel service is lastingly impressed by those who scatter sunshine and uplifting thoughts while they work.
Apply the same truth to your lessons in Church history. In this study one should keep the mind on the final outcomes and not be led into things of little consequence.
When I was a boy I was brought into this temple yard. On an excursion from Pleasant Grove and West Jordan, some of us school children were privileged to come here and see the temple which was being built. It wasn't up to the square. We were permitted to climb the winding stairs to the top and look over the city. One thing I remember was that this yard was littered with stones, with all sorts of tools. We don't see those things now; we see the glorious temple with its spires pointing heavenward.
Every man's life and every woman's life in the building is likely to have some litter about it, but by what do we judge the life? by the outcome. Think of this when you teach lessons in history. Let the gospel light guide this great work.
In the lessons on literature recently given we started out with that found in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. The central aim of all was to bring you back to the Bible, to make you love that book of books. These courses were not planned for one year. One cannot get out the Bible in eight or sixteen lessons. They were planned to lay a firm foundation for reading and rereading and enjoying the Bible. With that work as a basis and as a standard, we are now entering upon the study of the influence of the Bible and Christian teaching on our
literature. I think that we have here a measuring rod by which we can determine whether any literature that has been created is worthy of a place in our home libraries. A book that does not vibrate a spirit of the gospel is open to serious challenge as to whether it goes into the home or not. There is nothing narrow about this; it is soundly basic for all great literature that will be read and reread vibrates to the story of the Bible.
Parents have today the challenge, as never before, to get closer to the literature of their children. Nothing offers a better chance to get nearer to their hearts and souls than good books. We need to cultivate such a companionship in our homes.
May I pay tribute here to my dear mother, in closing. She made our library the center of our home, and she was ever ready to read some beautiful poem, to tell us some story. She saw to it that even though the linen closet or the china closet might not be as richly furnished as in other homes, she had good books in that room where we loved to gather.
We must pay more attention to the spiritual uplift of our homes. We must unite in getting better books in our homes. We must radiate the light of the gospel there.
