[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Societys Moyle]
exhibiting a dependence upon each represented. When this is the case,
other. There is none of us in this the stake Relief Society comes in
Church so good or great or endowed direct contact each month with the
with powers suﬃcient to magnify president of the stake and the presi-
his oﬃce and calling in the Church dents of the various priesthood
without receiving much assistance quorums, as well as the stake work
—and in many ways—from his directors; and the ward Relief So-
brethren and sisters in the wards ciety meets each week with the
and stakes of the Church in which bishop and the representatives of
he lives and works. the priesthood quorums in the ward
Welfare work is no exception to and the ward work directors, and, at
this well-established rule, which we this meeting:, should become inti-
might call "the rule of dependency" mately familiar with the details of
of the Church. The Relief Society the welfare work of the ward and
is, of course, auxiliary to tlie priest the needs of the membership, and

it is at this meeting that they are methods of distribution, and in ev-
assigned their duties and responsi ery other way ﬁt and prepare and
bihties for the coming week. quahfy ourselves to more adequately carry on
our work in the future;
QUR basic problem in taking care and, above all, to more fully meet
of our own, as most of you promptly any emergency. This,
know, is to render each family in after all, is the best form of insur-
the Church able to care for its own. ance of which we can conceive. We
have perfected, to a marvelous
degree, the production of the wel HTHE welfare work, as originally fare
budget. It is a pleasure for me announced by the First Presi-to report to you
at this time that the dency, divides itself into two major record of the Relief
Society as an subdivisions. We have thus far organization in assisting to
produce discussed the ﬁrst general subdivis-this budget in the past, to say
