[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Bible Driggs]

Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 6?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Fiction * Dr. Howard R. Drigg's For Tuesday, March 19, 1946 NOVELS came not many years after the invention of the printing press. Prior to the development of this means of spreading literature far and wide, folk were limited to myths, fairy stories, legends, told orally about the firesides.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 773
Sometimes these, woven together  
round a hero, would become a national epic, to be passed on, usually in verse form, down the years. Printing expanded the opportunity for the creation and distribution of not only verse but of fictional stories in prose.
With the drama banned by the Puritans in Cromwell's day, a natural demand had come for some substitute of dramatic cast. Fiction was the answer. It is closely allied to the drama. Indeed, many of our best plays are based on good novels. Any well-written story may be changed to a drama mainly by just eliminating the descriptive parts and by using scenery and costume, with a few stage directions, in their stead. The dialogue is, of course, given by the characters in the play.
All that might be said as to the qualities that mark an effective drama, applies with equal force to the novel. If it is to grip and hold the reader, it must have action centered in a well-defined plot, and characters of impelling, individual interest. If the story is to live and last for good, it must leave a wholesome effect in the mind and heart of the reader.
Practically all our best novels reveal, directly or indirectly, the influence of the Bible. This is particularly true of those that have won and held folk of varied classes through the years. Outwardly, this influence is shown in allusions, in lines of scripture, and in themes taken directly from Holy Writ. Inwardly, it is revealed by characters with admirable qualities and by the general tone and uplift of the story.
Spiritual growth in characters that
trayed. In Robinson Crusoe*, sometimes called the first of our novels, Defoe has the shipwrecked hero, alone on an island, tell simply and frankly of his forward steps from a life "without religious foundation at all" to one of abiding faith and devotion to God. His conversion began with finding, on the lonely isle, some growing grain like that he had known in his old homeland. Touched by the discovery, Crusoe felt it to be a gift from God. Later, opening the Bible he had saved from the wrecked ship, he found these lines, "Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Then he began to offer thanks for his food, and pray daily for protection and guidance. The Sabbath he had lost was restored to his calendar; and, finally, when the man Friday came into his life, Robinson Crusoe prayed for wisdom to bring the gospel light into the mind and heart of the poor slave.
Another classic novel created in later years, Silas Marner by George Eliot, portrays a similar bringing of a lost soul back into the light. It gives concrete meaning to the Biblical line, "A little child shall lead them." Shocked by the perfidy of a trusted companion, Silas had withdrawn from the world and sunk into bitterness. Then, robbed of his hoard of gold, he was plunged into utter despair, until golden-haired little Eppie came strangely into his home and heart. Gradually the little child led him back to a richer, more religious life.
*Studied in Relief Society Literature course, 1938-39; See Relief Society Magazine, August 1938, page 501; September 1938, page 634.  
Still another story, which has won and held the hearts of countless folk, is The Tale of Two Cities by Dickens. Its central theme may be found in these precious words of the Savior: "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Sidney Carton makes this supreme sacrifice to save a friend, to protect the happiness of those he loves. And as he goes nobly to his death at the guillotine, these divine words sustain and comfort him: I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die (John 2: 25-26). In addition to the many novels which, like the last two named, have at heart a Biblical theme, there are others which more openly announce and portray such themes. One of these, classic in its qualities, is Ben Hur?A Tale of the Christ by Lew Wallace.
With master stroke, the author brings back the life and times of the Savior. In Book I?a prelude ?we are brought closer to the story of the birth of the Savior, with vivid descriptions of the shepherds and other humble folk of Judea. We are also made to feel in the story of the Wise Men who followed the star to find the Christ Child, the depth and significance of the Messianic hope. In Book II, we first meet Ben Hur, a young Jew of high birth, and Messala, a young Roman. As children, the two had been playmates. Now, with different training, the one in Jerusalem, the other in Rome, they had reached young manhood with different ideals firmly set. A tragic accident brings the two into their first clash. Ben Hur, unjustly charged with trying to kill a Roman official, is condemned to be a galley slave. At the beginning of his trouble, he is given a first brief contact with Jesus of Nazareth.
Crowded years that follow bring him?and the reader?close to dramatic events and scenes, not only on a galley ship, but in regal Rome, in Arabia, and finally back to Jerusalem, where Ben Hur at last finds his king, the Savior of mankind.
Just one excerpt from this masterful novel can be given here to illustrate how the story of the Master is made to live again.
After a portrayal of the life of the lowly shepherds of Judea, in person and in spirit, we can see one Of them on watch before the sheepfold on the Holy Night when Christ was born.
Faithfully he performs his duty until midnight, then? His task was done; now for the dreamless sleep with which labor blesses its wearied children! He moved toward the fire, but paused; a light was breaking around him, soft and white, like the moon's. He waited breathlessly. The light deepened; things before invisible came to view.... A chill sharper than that of the frosty air?a chill of fear?smote him. He looked up; the stars were gone; the light became a splendor.
Then in terror he cried, "Awake! Awake!" Up sprang the dogs, and howling ran away. The herds rushed together, bewildered. The men clambered to their feet, weapons in hand. "What is it?" they asked in one voice. "See!" cried the watchman, "the sky is on fire!"
Suddenly the light became intolerably bright and they covered their eyes, and dropped upon their knees; then as their souls shrank with fear, they would have died had not a voice said unto them, ?Fear not!? And they listened. "Fear not: for behold I bring unto you good tidings of great joy, which shall be unto all people." For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior which is Christ the Lord."
This is just one author's way of bringing a dramatic event closer to us. As with different painters who have taken this and other Biblical subjects for portrayal, various writers make their different word pictures. Yet the basic scene remains ever the same.
Within more recent times, we have been given other novels based on the life of the Savior. One of these, The Robe by Lloyd Douglas, has lately won acclaim. Whether it will hold its present popularity remains to be seen. The story, told in more informal, more modern style than Ben Hur, still has many points of similarity with that earlier novel, particularly in its portrayal of Romans, Jews, and Greeks, who provide leading characters for the creative work.
In the Gospel of Saint John, the author found lines which touch the heart of the theme. "They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots" (John 19:24).
This robe, a simple, brown, homespun one, worn by the Savior when he was taken to be crucified, fell by lot to Marcellus, the Roman leader who had carried through the execution of Jesus. Unwillingly and drunkenly, he had performed as a soldier the cruel duty of crucifying one whom he felt was innocent. Later, at a banquet with icering Roman companions, Marcellus had donned the sacred robe. Suddenly something of ill came over him; he
watchful care of his servant Demetrius, he was taken here and there in the hope he might be restored to normal life again.
Among those with whom Marcellus was brought into contact, was the Greek Stephenos, or Stephen, who afterward became a martyr for the Christian faith. Stephen, shown the sacred robe, was touched into a train of memories of the Savior. "He wore it," said Stephen, "when he healed the sick and comforted the sorrowing . . . when he spoke to the multitudes as no man has ever spoken. He wore it when he wept by the cross to die?for me, a humble weaver! . . . and for you (Marcellus)?a wealthy Tribune!?and for you (Demetrius)?a slave."
Stephen went on to accuse Marcellus of the death of the Savior. Demetrius tried to stop the earnest Christian, but Marcellus commanded that Stephen proceed.
"You did not know what you were doing," he continued, "and you are sorry. . . You, Tribune Marcellus, can make amends for what you have done! He forgave you. I was there. . . . Make friends with him! He is alive! I have seen him! Marcellus did make friends with our Lord. He saw, unable to prevent it, the cruel stoning of Stephen, with the then unconverted, scornful Saul looking on. Through a series of such soul-shaping experiences and faith-promoting incidents, the Robe of Tribune was transformed and restored. At last he and his beloved wife Diana found life everlasting through their Savior and King.
Another outstanding recent novel, Joseph in Egypt by Thomas Mann, turns a masterpiece of the Bible to a vital purpose.  
The story of Joseph, sold by his brothers, his life in Egypt in the rich historical and social setting of those long ago times, is portrayed. For the presentation of such a theme with telling effect, the Bible provides basic materials of dramatic cast.
Through the more than two centuries since our first prose fiction began to appear, novel after novel, directly or indirectly linked with the Bible, has been printed. Naturally, most of these creations have had brief lives. Others, touching classic heights, have persisted through the years.
Some short stories that have certainly won and held place in our hearts are: The Other Wise Man by Henry VanDyke; and A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens; "J" Valjean and the Bishop," from Les Miserables, by Victor Hugo; A Man Without a Country, by Edward Eve-ret Hale. All these stories in rhythmically beautiful prose, vibrate with true Christian spirit.
Hundreds of other creations of like uplift and helpfulness have been created.
Many of the stories make no outward mention of the Bible, yet in the actions and the words of the characters they lead the reader to admire and love, one feels true charity, brotherhood, honesty, virtue, and other qualities characteristic of the true follower of the Master.
Added to these types of fictional stories, are many that are created just to give good cheer, to open our eyes to beautiful things in nature, to help us appreciate friends and even strangers who come into our midst.
Such stories are in tune with the gospel of goodness and happiness. We need mental and spiritual sunshine to fit us for the sterner hours of life.
What is required most is a cultivated sense of selection. Far too much of our fiction just preys upon unthinking folk with tales unfit to read?stories that are simply sensational pictures of perturbed lives ending in nothingness.
Dissipation of time and precious emotional energy, rather than recreation, ls the main reward of such novels. **But," someone will ask, "how can a choice selection of fictional stories be made?"
Here are a few simple tests that may prove helpful: 1.
Does the novel ring true to life and true to truth? 2. Are its characters and its scenes and conversation such as might be introduced with uplift into the home circle? 3. Is it written in language that is both picturesque and rhythmic?
Does it lend itself to oral reading? 4.
Does it promote faith, courage, cheer, strength of character, practical Christianity? If the story in large measure brings these positive results for good, then it is Bible-inspired.
Many of our great authors have acknowledged openly their indebtedness to the Bible; none more impressively than Sir Walter Scott. In the closing hours of his life, this great writer turned to a beloved friend with a request for a book. "Which book?" said the friend. "Need you ask," came the reply; "there is but one."
Discussion and Activities 1. (a) What are the outward differences between a drama and a novel? How are they essentially alike? (b) What are some qualities that the play and the novel must have to make them worth time? 2. (a) Be ready to answer the roll call
LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 of your class with the name of a novel whose title, theme, or spiritual qualities give evidence that it was Bible-inspired. (b) What type of novel, even though there may be no such evidence of its connection with the Bible, still may bring good into our lives? How? 3. (a) Give two reasons why we must cultivate in these days a better sense of selection for created stories, (b) Name one novel or short story which you are willing to defend as not only wholesome but interesting. 4.
What is meant by this suggestion: Novels that live and last for most folk are factually sound, true to life, and spiritually wholesome. 5.
What can be done to cultivate a taste for choice, wholesome stories?by the home; by the school; by the church?
Think in this connection of the following suggestions: a?Voicing good literature round the fireside. B?Occasional "story hours" for home socials. C?Encouraging creative authorship in the schools. D?Co-operating with the librarian in providing choice books.