[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas in the Crawford]

Christmas in the Bible WHAT shall we do on Christmas Eve? What shall we do when the fire blazes high upon the hearth and candles flame in the window? Beyond that window, in the darkness, stars line the black arch of night. Perhaps, far away or near at hand, in the hills, modern shepherds watch their flocks by night. And here we are at home on Christmas Eve thinking about these things. There is no better way to enjoy this evening than to spend it reading the story of Christmas as it is written in the beautiful words of the Bible. Let these words be read aloud and pondered again, for there is need of their serenity and comfort?a great need for their steadfast message of hope: Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, Saying, where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him (Matthew 2:1-2). These are the words of St. Matthew, telling the wonderful story of the first Christmas. And the wise men, near the end of their journey, when they had conferred with Herod in Jerusalem, "departed: and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was." The story continues, and we can almost see the starlight upon the hill road to Bethlehem, the tall camels silhouetted against the night, the city walls lighted with splendor. It is Luke who gives the exquisite description of the shepherds: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night (Luke 2:8). Above the desert and the Dead Sea, above the desolate wilderness, safe in the coves of the hills, these shepherds watched their flocks, careful that no lamb wandered into the ravines, careful that no ewe escaped from the walls of the fold. Peaceful were the shepherds and the sheep upon the dark hills. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them. Fear not: for, behold, I bring you tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:9-11). A message for all the world. Christmas as the Bible tells the story! There is no substitute for these words. Nothing can take their place. Before the waning of this Christmas Eve, read this message of the four gospels. The Christmas spirit will come to you across the gulf of time, across the interval of centuries, and there will be no boundaries of time or space. Christmas will be yours! V. P. C.