[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Editorial | Title: 116th Spafford]
C UCCESS to you in this building! you speedily ﬁnish it. If we are May
you speedily start, and may perfectly honest with you, and some-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1945
times we are, we would say something like this to President Spaﬀord,
"Success to you in this building/' and, as the host said to those guests he
had in the house as he went into the closet to take out their coats, "Here's
your hat, but what's your hurry?"
Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we
need more elbow room. Success to you! I wish that every building that is
ﬁnanced would be ﬁnanced as easily as you are going to ﬁnance this
building; and I hope I have the privilege, and I am sure it won't be denied,
to give my pittance in this direction.
In closing, inasmuch as President Smith has mentioned the Laman-ites, I
just want to pay tribute to a Relief Society worker; namely. Sister Flora
Hicks, who has had charge, with her husband, of the Lamanites in the
Papago Ward, Arizona. She was called down there ten or twelve years ago,
and she passed away
about eight weeks ago.
We had the privilege of standing in that house as those Lamanites came in
to pay homage to her. They are supposed to be cold; they are not supposed
to be very enthusiastic in their emotions. When those people came in, about
three hundred strong, one at a time and in groups, they cried like babies in
the loss of that wonderful woman and what she had done for them. And as
they put her under the ground, the little Lamanite president of the Relief
Society put ﬁfty dollars in the hands of Brother Hicks. They heard that he
had had some intention of moving back to Salt Lake City sometime. She
said, "Here is ﬁfty dollars, and men have another ﬁfty dollars. That is for a
monument to this good woman. You are not going to move her from this
sacred soil?" God bless her memory.
She gave herself to help other persons raise their standards of life. God
bless you. Amen.
Relief Society Wheat Project

Elder Joseph L. WirthJin Second Counselor, Presiding Bishopric
npHERE is no question but what I should like to talk to you for a
you sisters have missed a great moment about a project in which
many things in not being able to at you are vitally interested, namely,
tend the sessions of the general the wheat storage project which
conference during the past four originated in the days of President
years, but I should like you to know Brigham Young when he counseled
that we have missed you very much, the members of the Relief Society
and we are happy that you are back, to store wheat against a day of need.
If we were to continue attending In that day of long ago, the sisters
general conference without our sis of the Relief Society went out into
ters, it would be like a home v^th the ﬁelds after the brethren had
out a wife or without a mother. harvested the crops and literally
gleaned what was left, and from that all of us a grand and glorious achieve-