[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Dream For a Relief Sharp]
Dream for a Relief Society Building Counselor Marianne C. Sharp T WOULD ask an interest in your faith and prayers for I feel that words are very inadequate to express the feelings which are in my heart today. I am grateful for the privilege we have as sisters?as mothers always working for the salvation of our children and as Church members striving for the furtherance of the work of the Church?to meet together once more in a Relief Society general conference. I am grateful, personally, for the opportunity I have to work in the Relief Society under Sister Spafford who is true and faithful, and I want to thank my Heavenly Father for this privilege. I love the Relief Society. I love the sisters in the Relief Society and have joy in association with them. Wherever I have lived or visited in the Church I have felt the close bond of love and service which links together the members of the Society today. The members today, however, are only links in a great chain of sisters which reaches back to include the valiant and great women of the past 103 years, and will stretch forward to encompass those yet unborn who will devote their services to working for the good of others, always seeking at the same time to improve themselves. I am thinking particularly this afternoon of those sisters who have gone on before.
Ever since Sister Lyman appointed Sister Spafford and me to help prepare the book A Centenary oi Relief Society to commemorate the hundredth birthday of the Society, I have felt very near to the Relief Society leaders of the past and the faithful members who are the mothers, grandmothers, and great-grandmothers, even great-great-grandmothers, of the members today.
They have stepped out alive for me from the pages of the Woman's Exponent and from the minutes of the General Board.
Their testimonies have increased my testimony. I have shared in their joys and sorrows and, as nearly as one can, I have entered into their desires for the upbuilding of Relief Society. As we studied this history of the past, we read of one great dream which had gone unfulfilled.
GENERAL  It is of this unfulfilled dream I wish to speak today. In order to introduce it, I will take you back forty-nine years ago yesterday to October 3, 1896, to a general Relief Society conference held in the Assembly Hall. Aunt Zina Young was the president of the Relief Society at that time and with her on the stand sat her three counselors, her vice-presidents as they were called, First Counselor Jane S. Richards, Second Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, and" her third Counselor Sarah M. Kimball. It was near the end of the afternoon session that, according to the minutes taken by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, then secretary: President Zina D. H. Young, in her remarks, opened out upon the subject of a house for the Relief Society, to be owned by them.
