[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Robison]
But there are so many interests, and we naturally look around and think, which is the most important to give for our time. And the question arises, How about Relief Society? What does it offer its members?
First, Relief Society offers elevating, beautiful friendships. The best friendships of my life have been formed through the Society, and
Our meetings are called together, and the first thing is to remember Him in song?which brings a sweet worshipful peace. Then the prayer is offered, a humble prayer offered by one of our humble sisters, but asking for that precious gift, the gift that God will send us?his spirit, which is light and truth.
This is followed then, and is the setting for the theology lesson which teaches us the will of our Father in heaven and his laws that will prepare us for his kingdom. Then, in testimony meeting, we have the opportunity of telling each other of the kindness of our Heavenly Father to us and of the beautiful principles of the gospel, and just as sure as we come in contact with his spirit, we take it to our homes. It is this spirit that builds up the faith of our children.
The second Tuesday of our Relief Society is more of a social day. We meet more informally, we learn to take care of our homes and our children, and we give service to others in our Welfare Plan, that we with better part may ask for God's blessing at the close of day.
Then, the study of the literature of the New Testament, that wonderful part of the Bible that inspires us with higher thoughts; and the innumerable poems and stories and songs, inspired by these truths, raise the standard of culture in our homes.
The fourth study is a practical study of character development, of honesty and morality and truth. Where these are taught in the home, supplemented by the faith that has been developed, children are fortified to meet life when they cross the bridge from the home to the work of the world. 
Nor are we left alone. Our Father in Heaven is as much interested ln our children?more so, even, than we, and he has said to us: *'Be thou humble; and the Lord Thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers" (Doc. And Gov. 112:10). Is there any promise greater for us to receive in return for the time spent properly?
Active membership in Relief Society makes this promise secure through the beautiful lessons provided for us through the inspired teacher or class leader, and through a prayerful study of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Ghrist.
Membership in Relief Society is offered to all women who seek to live the better life. I leave my prayer and my blessing for these fine women, the Presidency of this organization and the General Board, who, through the priesthood of the living God, have been given the torch to light, to lead us into perfection, to make our homes clean and pure, that there will be no evil come in. I pray that the stake presidents may receive this light and carry it to the wards, and, most important, that the ward presidents may receive this light, and that they may have the blessing in giving and interpreting it to the individual members, that we will all, when we leave here, turn to our Father in heaven, that these precious souls that he has entrusted to our care, our children, may be pure and clean and sweet. May this be our lot, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Ghrist. Amen.
