[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Report and Official Spafford]

OFFICERS' MEETING, OCTOBER 3, 1945
Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford WE welcome you all and we are grateful for your presence, your safe journey, your devotion to the work that makes you put forth the effort to be here, for the sacrifices of your families. I am sure that our hearts are filled to overflowing today in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the privilege of this conference. We are deeply grateful for the cessation of hostilities that has made this conference possible. For four long years we have been bowed down by the strains, anxieties, and sorrows of war. Even though we know that many of the sorrows and problems of war are still with us, we acknowledge the goodness of the Lord at this time. Our last general Relief Society conference was held in October 1941, and we were enthusiastically looking forward to the observance of our Relief Society centennial in connection with the coming April conference. Interest and enthusiasm were running high, only to be cut short by war. Relief Society Activities, 1941-1944 At the close of 1941 we had an enrollment of 115,000. Then the advent of the war and the accompanying employment of women, together with the many war interests of women, affected in some measure our enrollment. Under these conditions we feel our membership has held up remarkably well. We have today an enrollment of over 102,000. Average attendance has suffered somewhat more than enrollment. The average attendance for the three-year war period, December 1941 to December 1944, is 30.41 per cent of the enrolled membership. The number of visits to homes by visiting teachers is perhaps the most discouraging of all aspects of our work. Figures show a steady decline through the war years, with 126,900 fewer visits being made last year than in 1941. The Relief Society Magazine has given us pronounced concern during the war years. Government restrictions on paper, increased printing and engraving costs, labor problems, both at the printing offices and in our own department, have caused us many troubled hours. Moreover, the Magazine has never seemed of greater importance to us, being the major medium through which the General Board has been able to reach local officers and the Relief Society membership. The circulation has increased from 55,500 in 1941 to 73, 620 as of July 1945. This splendid increase in circulation has been the main factor in enabling us to maintain the $1 subscription price. We are now pleased to announce to you that government paper restrictions are lifted and beginning with the November issue the Magazine will add eight pages. The Magazine has more than current value. It has reference and historical value, therefore we suggest that you keep in your ward and stake libraries files of The Relief Society Magazine.
Excellent standards of class work have been maintained throughout the Society. Recommended courses of study have been followed in most of the missions as well as in the stakes and these have been generally well received by Relief Society members.
Figures for the past four years on phases of compassionate service which can be tabulated are very interesting. For each of the four years, visits to the sick and homebound did not vary a great deal. During the period, December 1941 to December 1944, an average of 132,000 visits were made annually to the sick and homebound, and an average of 19,000 days' care was given the sick annually by our Relief Society sisters. Services rendered by Relief Society in time of death averaged 600 monthly.
Relief Society women have wholeheartedly supported the war effort. Extensive service has been given the Red Cross sewing and other programs. Relief Society women have also been active in salvage and food conservation programs. During the past four years tremendous amounts of regular Relief Society sewing have been done; ward conferences and special activities, such as Relief Society socials and anniversary programs, have gone successfully forward. Hundreds of meetings in addition to the regular weekly Relief Society meetings have been held, with encouraging gains being made in the number of ward preparation meetings held.
Changes in Leadership
Great changes have been made in our leadership. During the past four years, out of the present 151 stakes, 132 have new stake Relief Society leadership, and twenty-eight missions have new Relief Society mission presidents.
A change in general Relief Society leadership occurred April 6, 1945, with the release by the First Presidency of Sister Amy Brown Lyman and her General Board. The same day, Belle S. Spafford was sustained as the new General President of Relief Society.
New Name for Relief Society
We begin the work of this new era with a new name being officially adopted for the Society. By action of the General Board of Relief Society, June 27, 1945, the name of the Society was officially changed from "National Woman's Relief
Society" to "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."
Restoration of Union Meetings
This is also a day of restoration for Relief Society. Union meetings have been restored to us allowing stake officers to once more function normally. Visits to stakes by General Board members have once more been authorized by the First Presidency.
We urge that in the conduct of union meetings every possible effort be made to make them as beneficial to ward workers as possible. Let your preparation for these meetings be thorough and keep in mind the two great purposes of union meetings; namely, to aid wards toward fine performance in all phases of Relief Society work and to assist in developing ward leadership. Stake leaders are cautioned to do nothing that will hinder the ward in standing on its own feet.
New Recommendations
The General Board recommends that except when a stake counselor is needed in the department over which she has general supervision, or unless she feels a special need to conduct a department for ward counselors, that she attend the department conducted for presidents. Ward counselors should also attend the presidents' department unless a special department is being conducted for them. Secretaries, when not in departments specially planned for them, should also attend the presidents' department. We feel that tion when executive officers have an
opportunity to meet together in a consideration of Relief Society work.
The General Board also recommends that a work meeting leader be appointed on stake boards and also in wards, to work under the general supervision of the counselor who is the work meeting program except directly responsible for all phases of the work meeting program except Church Welfare assignments which shall continue to be the direct responsibility of the counselor who is the work director. The stake work meeting leader shall be responsible for a department at union meeting to be attended by ward work-meeting leaders. Wards will plan the work-meeting day for themselves as heretofore, but the union meeting department should stimulate, encourage, suggest programs and aid wards in maintaining high standards of work-meeting activities.
Submittal of Annual Reports
Stake secretaries are requested to begin immediately to work toward getting annual reports into the General Office on time. Ward reports should reach stake secretaries not later than January 5. Stake secretaries should in turn submit their reports to the General Office not later than January 20. Sisters, we plead with you to see that these dates are met.  
Stake officers are advised to remind ward officers that ward Relief Society conference programs should be planned with the purposes of the conference clearly in mind, namely, to report organization activities and accomplishments, to acquaint the ward membership with the program and needs of the Society, and to emphasize the blessings of membership in the organization. The ward conference is the Relief Society meeting from which Relief Society should derive benefits, and, with very few exceptions, it accomplishes its purposes best when presented by Relief Society women. The main goal of the meeting should not be merely to present a brilliant speaker or an entertaining program in order that a large crowd will be in attendance, but rather to present in a fresh, interesting, and appealing way a program that truly represents Relief Society, and that draws a large attendance because it does interestingly represent us. The work of Relief Society is appealing and dramatic in itself, and, if properly presented, is full of interest for ward members.
Officers should not feel in making ward conference assignments that it is necessary to go outside the ward or stake for talent. The conference program provides excellent opportunity to use and develop local talent and to recognize capable, faithful Relief Society women.
Every ward and stake has an abundance of excellent talent, if leaders will but search it out and make use of it.
Support of No-Liquor-Tobacco Committees Suggestions will come from the General Board during the coming year in support of the efforts of the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee to abolish the use of alcohol and tobacco. We trust that stakes and wards will give full support to any programs that are released or projects that are initiated either by the Board or your local committees.
Emphasis on Four Phases of Work We have been advised by our Church leaders to give renewed emphasis to four phases of our work: First, the ultimate objective of all that we do is to build testimonies of the truth of the restored gospel, and to teach women to apply the saving principles of the gospel in their every-day lives. Second, as Relief Society leaders, we must seek earnestly to spiritualize and strengthen Latter-day Saint homes. Third, we are counseled to take cognizance of our part in the Welfare Program of the Church. Love-inspired welfare service has been a fundamental part of our work since the very beginning of our existence as a Society.
Under the impetus of the Church Welfare Plan, bishops are enabled to more fully discharge their part in relation to needy Church members in their wards, and Relief Society sisters, relieved of the necessity of maintaining a charity fund and serving as a source of supply, may more fully devote themselves to phases of the work that are in accord with their natures and ability. A fourth duty to which our attention has been called is that of bringing actively into Relief Society greater numbers of Latter-day Saint women, particularly young women. Every Latter-day Saint woman is entitled to the blessings of membership in this Society.
Encouragement of Visiting Teaching We urge that special efforts be put forth to strengthen the visiting teacher program during the coming months.
GENERAL  
There is a need for organized effort to develop hopes and attitudes and sentiments, favorable outlook and points of view, the spirit of mutual purpose and co-operation; to implant religious conviction with its sustaining spiritual strength. Today's world offers such excellent opportunity for the intimate human service which our visiting teachers can render. May the Lord bless you to keep alive your sense of values, your sense of proportion, your faith that as you work unselfishly in this great organization, you are genuinely helping the women of this Church, you are helping to advance the work of the Lord.