REPORTS.

	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Conference
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms in this city Friday, Sept. 23,
commencing at ten o'clock, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the minutes of the last
Quarterly Conference were read, followed by
remarks from Pres. M. I. Horne upon the du-
ties and labors of the sisters in improving
themselves and helping in the great work of
the latter days, and much good counsel and
instruction.
	Counselor Elmina S. Taylor exhorted the
sisters most earnestly to be alive to the impor-
tance of the work in which they had enlisted.
Gave a glowing description of the Ladies'
Conference she had recently attended in Bear
Lake Stake, and the diligence of the sisters in
that locality; gave some good and timely in-
struction to the secretaries, and urged them to
be prompt and correct in making out reports.
She spoke, too, of the great changes now trans-
piring in the earth and among the nations, and
thought it should inspire the Saints with zeal
in the performance of all good works; and said
many other good things.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until two o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, the Treasurer's report of the Stake
organization of R. S. was read and accepted.
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith then made a few
suggestive and encouraging remarks.
	Mrs. Phebe Woodruff exhorted the sisters to
so arrange their household matters they might
have time to attend these meetings, which
would help to educate them, and give them
spiritual strength; said, "let us be careful to
perform the smallest duties in our daily lives."
Spoke of the work to be done in Temples for
the living and the dead.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said this is an event-
ful time; there is much to be done by all. It
is refreshing to witness the zeal manifested by
the people of Sanpete County in helping to
build the Temple at Manti. She had lately
visited the Woman's Conference at Tooele;
there were large congregations, many brethren
attended the meetings and seemed to enjoy
them. She then related a very interesting cir-
cumstance about a Peace Conference held in
London about forty years ago. If we act well
our part we have nothing to fear. There never
was a time when there was such universal
mourning as there is now in this nation. Presi-
dent Garfield was not shot down from personal
spite, it was an attack upon the government,
and on all governments. The "Doctrine and
Covenants" says, "Pray for the leaders of the
government;" I think we should all pray for
them, that they may act wisely and peacefully.
I pray God to bless President Arthur and his
Cabinet, that they may rule in righteousness,
and that we as a people may be able to live in
righteousness and peace.
	Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood said: We are a
part of the great American nation, and if our
prayers are offered up in a right manner they
will tend to good; if we are humble the Lord
will help us. If we could only understand we
are a great spoke in the wheel of government.
If we could learn to systematize our many la[-]

[Column 2]
bors we could make them lighter, and we would
not be so weary, &c.
	Mrs. Presendia H. Kimball, in her remarks,
thought we were living in a curious day; ever
since this Church had been organized we had
been living in a peculiar time. We have been
called upon to lose the President of the Church
by the assassin's hand, and we know how to
sympathize with the nation, for our Prophet
was slain. I hope and pray that God will
soften the heart of President Arthur towards
this people, and that all things may work
together for good for the whole human fam-
ily, &c.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox expressed her interest
in the work of the sisters; felt these confer-
ences were the places where we received in-
structions in regard to the special departments
of work in assisting to build up the kingdom
of God upon the earth.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard urged the sisters to
greater diligence in spiritual duties, and to
make more progress in all that pertains to a
higher life. Exhorted them to humility and
meekness, and to beware of a proud and
haughty spirit.
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne spoke very forcibly
and eloquently upon the great events now tak-
ing place in this nation, and said the Lord will
bring about His purposes no matter who rules.
Referred to the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
that all the world would be against us; read
some paragraphs from the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants and advised the sisters to read
these revelations; made further interesting re-
marks upon this and other subjects.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze thought there was
much force in the words "be not weary in well-
doing," and entreated the sisters to live up to
every known duty, for every one must answer
for himself or herself, and no power can take
away our reward if we prove faithful.
	President A. M. Cannon said he often
thought of the sisters' meetings, and would be
glad to attend them oftener. He had been
much pleased with the children's Primary Fair,
thought it would result in much good. Said,
"As I heard Sister Horne read the word of the
Lord to us, I thought mothers should prompt
their children to noble acts, and especially to
be honest and upright in every act of their
lives." Exhorted mothers to make such im-
pressions upon the little ones as would be last-
ing, and counsel girls in regard to marriage,
that they might not degrade themselves by
allying themselves to those not in the covenant,
but seek to keep the first estate by being
faithful; made many excellent remarks upon
this subject. Was much gratified to see the
improvement being made among the good of
this people; the line was being drawn by our-
selves.
	Some special business was transacted, and
Pres. M. I. Horne reminded the sisters of the
responsibility resting upon them in regard to
storing up grain and purchasing all they could
with the money they had now on hand; also to
recollect the silk industry, and try to influence
as many as possible to take hold of this em-
ployment. Said Sister Woodruff had sug-
gested that we make a little carpeting in each
society for the Logan Temple. Conference
was then adjourned until December next.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by President
A. M. Cannon.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

