THE CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Primary Fair of the Associations of Salt
Lake County was held in the Social Hall in this
city, and was open for exhibition five days, com-
mencing Thursday, Sept. 22, and continuing on
the 23d and 24th, and meeting with such excel-
lent success, was re-opened on Tuesday and
Wednesday, the 27th and 28th ult. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors, Mrs. Camilla
Cobb and Annie D. Watson, spared no pains to
make the affair as complete in every particular
and department as it could be made. The Pres-
idents of the several wards that had articles
from their respective Associations on exhibition
also lent a helping hand, by managing each her
own department, and thus facilitating the heavy
labor of Mrs. Clawson and her associates.

[Column 2]
	It would be utterly useless to attempt to men-
tion all the work of the little folks, and incon-
sistent under the circumstances to give names
or make comparisons, but there was much to be
admired and to arouse an ambition in others to
"go and do likewise."
	Every conceivable article of ornamentation
that could be made by little girls was there to
be seen in one or the other of the several spaces
allotted to the different wards. There were six-
teen quilts, of a variety of patterns, all well
made and nicely quilted. There were one or
two dresses very neatly made by girls about
thirteen years old; doll dresses by those much
younger, and aprons, pillow cases, and a few
other articles of this kind, lots of stockings of
home knitting, also mittens and dolls' stockings;
hoods for children, very handsome, crocheted of
wool, and one very elegant shawl made by a
child twelve years old.
	Almost innumerable mottoes, worked upon
perforated card-board in every form, wool, tarle-
tan and wax flowers in abundance; tidies of
every form and size, and of all available mate-
rials; several specimens of fine pillow lace and
ornamental embroidery, and work of all des-
criptions. Cocoons raised by the little girls, too,
of an excellent quality, which really deserve
special mention. Paintings on silk and wood
were also very creditable indeed.
	Then there was a department for cookery
where the "little women" displayed handsome
cakes, many of them frosted and ornamented,
pies, bread, butter, preseves, jellies, and so forth;
some of these articles were very "fair to look
upon," but as we were not permitted to taste,
one could not judge so well of their quality.
	There were vegetables of almost all kinds
which had been raised by the little boys, pota-
toes, corn, pop corn, turnips, -beets, squashes,
nearly every variety; and pea-nuts which were
really quite a curiosity to many. The boys had
sleds, book shelves, wagons, tiny cradles, and
clothes-horse and other such articles, and a pair
of shoes, the first shoe-making of some industri-
ous boy; there was ornamental plaster work too,
done by little boys, and many other things we
have not space to mention. Mrs. Clawson can-
not help but feel gratified with the success
of the Fair, and it has been so highly appreci-
ated by the people that it has been allotted space
in "The Utah Territorial Fair," to be held in
this city, commencing October 3d.
	The admittance to the Primary Fair was only
10 cts. for adults and 5 cts. for children, yet the
aggregate amount was considerable, and Mrs.
Clawson informs us that after paying the tithing
out of the funds, $50.00 has been donated to the
Logan Temple and the remainder reserved to
appropriate towards prizes for the coming exhibi-
tion another year.
	We would suggest to the children that next
year they exhibtt more needle work, plain and
ornamental, also darning, button-hole mak-
ing, and straw work, and also that
the little girls and boys both write essays
and poems; they will have a year to think
of it and we will offer now a suitable prize,
to any girl or boy under fifteen years of age who
will write the best original poem or essay; and
the decision to be made by five competent dis-
interested critics.
	Several persons have given prizes and render-
ed valuable aid to the commendable work of the
Primary Associations. President John Taylor
gave the use of the building to the Fair, and H.
B. Clawson, Esq., gave much assistance to the
ladies in getting up and carrying out the entire
arrangements.
	We trust the little folks will be encouraged
by the success of their work to persevere in
making and improving in all useful em-

[Column 3]
ployments. Industry is the road to wealth, and
to honor as well, and the children of Zion have
much to do and may they be able to do their
work well is my prayer.
	We tender our thanks to Mrs. Clawson, and
the ladies associated with her, for substantially
remembering the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in dis-
tributing the delicacies left from the Fair.
Many thanks for the same.


