CALAMITY.

	ELBERON, 19.—Everything seemed indicative
of a quiet night. At half-past 10, while Boyn-
ton was conversing at Elberon Hotel, a messen-
ger suddenly appeared and spoke to the doctor
in an undertone, and he immediately left the
table at which he was sitting and started on a
run for Francklyn Cottage. This movement
was a sequel to the representatives of the press
congregated at the hotel that something
unusual had occurred. But few moments
had elapsed when Mr. Warren Young, one of
the executive clerks, came to Elberon Hotel and
announced that the President was dead.
	Previous to his death, the only words spoken
by the President were that he had a severe pain
in his heart. It is supposed by the surgeons that
death was occasioned by clot blood formed in the
heart. Dr. Bliss was the first one notified of the
President's expression of pain, and upon enter-
ing the President's room at once saw that the
end was near.
	Members of the family were immediately
summoned to the bedside. All arrived and per-
fect quiet prevailed.
	Mrs. Garfield bore the trying ordeal with great
fortitude, and exhibited unprecedented courage.
She gave way to no paroxysms of grief, and
after death became evident, she quietly with-
drew to her own room. There she sat a heart-
stricken widow, full of grief, but with too much
courage to exhibit it to those about her. She
was laboring under a terrible strain, and despite
her efforts, tears flowed from her eyes and her
lips became drawn by her noble attempt to bear
the burden with which she had been afflicted.
Miss Mollie was greatly afflicted, and bursts of
tears flowed from the child's eyes, notwith-
standing her noble effort to follow the example
of her mother.
	The death scene was one never to be forgot-
ten. Perfect quiet prevailed, and there was not
a murmur heard while the President was sink-
ing. After death had been pronounced, the
body was properly arranged by Dr. S. A. Boyn-
ton.
	The ceremonies at Francklyn Cottage consist-
ed of Scripture reading, "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," &c., followed by an elo-
quent and very affecting prayer by Rev. Charles
J. Young, of Long Branch.
	The body of the dead was dressed in the suit
President Garfield wore on Inauguration day, a
black, double-breasted frock coat, dark vest,
black trousers and black satin necktie. The
right hand lay by the side, and the left across
the heart. The casket was placed in the hall,
that the people who crowded the avenue might
see the remains. Two sentinels were posted at
the door, that but one person might pass at
time, and at 8.45 a.m. the file began to pass
through the hall. The casket was rich but sim-
ple, being covered with heavy black cloth, and
bearing silver mountings. The only decoration

[Column 2]
was a sago palm, extending upward from the
foot of the casket. As the file passed through,
the church bells tolled, and few could keep back
their tears. Those familiar with the President's
countenance could scarcely recognize him, so
pinched and haggard was the face, with its
drawn lines and changed contour. The solemn
silence was broken only by the sorrowful strokes
of the bells, the rustling of the awed people, and
occasional sobs.
	The train which was to bear the body and
mourners to Washington was drawn up before
the Francklyn Cottage at 9.30 a.m., engine and
cars being heavily draped. At the same time
there arrived Chief-Justice Waite,Secretary and
Mrs. Blaine, Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Sec-
retary and Mrs. Hunt, Postmaster-General
James and wife, Secretaries Lincoln and Kirk-
wood, and Attorney-General MacVeagh, and
the doors were closed to visitors. The casket
was placed in the same car that bore the suffer-
ing President to the shore, and the train moved
away at 10 a.m., reaching Elberon station at
10.12, where President Arthur and Gen. and
Mrs. Grant were taken on board. The railroad
was lined for half a mile with people, and as the
train swept by the men stood silent with bare
heads. The bell tolled, the draperies and half-
masted flags of the village fluttered in the breeze,
and Long Branch was deserted.
	One of those on the funeral train says that the
passage from Elberon to Washington was one
continued manifestation of sympathy and sor-
row. In the populous cities, in the smaller vil-
lages and even in the country through which
the mournful train passed, demonstrations of
sympathy were ever present. In the larger
cities multitudes of people assembled and stood
absolutely silent, with heads uncovered, as the
train passed by, while the tolling of bells, flags
flying at half-mast and the funeral drapery
which covered many buildings all added to the
solemnity of the scene. At numerous points
along the route beautiful floral offerings were to
be seen, and at several places the track was liter-
ally covered for a distance of more than 100
yards with ferns and flowers. Even in the
country, along the route of the railroad, there
was no lack of evidence of affectionate regard
and sympathy. Men, women and children col-
lected on the porticos of dwellings near the
track, at the crossings and on the embankments
commanding a near view of the passing train,
and with bowed and uncovered heads for a fleet-
ing instant, as the train rushed past, gave evi-
dence of their sorrow. Laborers in the fields
watched the coming of the train bearing the
dead President and with bared arms and uncov-
ered heads stood mute and sorrowful while the
funeral train passed. No incident worthy of note
occurred on board during the pasage, and at 4.35
p. m. the train slowly entered the depot, when
the casket was at once removed to the hearse in
waiting. The funeral party took seats in car-
riages, and under military escort the procession
at once moved toward the Capitol.
	A vast throng were assembled about the
depot, every avenue and approach being densely
packed with jostling, but in every instance quiet
and orderly citizens. A large force of police were
on duty, and the immediate approaches to the
depot were roped off and closed against all save
those participating in the ceremonies or who
held special cards of admission to the depot.
The military were drawn up against the east side
of Sixth street with the right resting on Penn-
sylvania avenue. Upon the opposite side of the
street nearest the depot was a long line of car-
riages, preceded by the hearse, whi[-]h was
drawn up directly at the main gate on the Sixth
street side. The hearse used was furnish-
ed by Undertaker Spears, of that city, and is
known as the centennial hearse, it having been
awarded the prize at the centennial exhibition.
It was draped in black of rich and heavy ma-
terial, wholly unrelieved by any other color, and
was drawn by six iron-gray horses whose trap-
pings were also draped in sombre black. Just
before the train entered the depot the platform
was cleared by the police, and the officers of the
army and navy to the number of 139 formed in
single rank upon the left, facing the train. As
the train slowly rolled into the depot every head
upon the platform was uncovered, and a still-
ness as of the grave pervaded the vast throng,
which for more than an hour had been patiently
waiting by the road side.
	Soon Mrs. Garfield, assisted by Secretary
Blaine, descended from the car, and taking his
arm upon her right and that of her son Harry
upon her left, she walked directly to the carriage
in waiting. Her face was completely concealed
by a heavy black veil which hung nearly to


[Column 1]
the ground, and whatever emotions she may
have experienced were sacred from the sight of
those who gazed upon her as the central figure
in the sad pageant. She entered the state car-
riage and was followed by her daughter, Mollie,
her son Harry, Mrs. Rockwell and Miss Rock-
well. The others of the Presidential party were
President Arthur, who leaned upon the arm of
of Senator Jones, of Nevada, Gen. Grant, Gen.
Swain and Mrs. Swain, Col. Rockwell, Col. Cor-
bin, Dr. Bliss, and daughter, Drs. Boynton,
Agnew and Hamilton, Attorney General Mac-
Veagh, his wife and two sons, Secretary and
Mrs. Hunt, Secretary and Mrs. Lincoln and
son, Postmaster General and Mrs. James and
Secretary Kirkwood.
	The first three carriages received those of the
party who did not accompany the procession to
the Capitol. After they had moved on a short
distance from the entrance,the casket appeared,
borne upon the shoulders of eight soldiers of the
2d artillery, detailed from the arsenal barracks.
On the right, in a single file and headed by
Adjt. Gen. Drum, were the officers of the army,
and on the left the officers of the navy, under
the lead of Rear Admiral Nichols, as the casket
was borne to the hearse, the Marine band sta-
tioned across the street played "Nearer My God
to Thee," while every head was bowed and
many eyes were dimmed. The sad strains of
the sweetly familiar hymn, the hush that had
fallen upon the scene and the grief mirrored on
thousands of faces marked the picture with
shadings that years cannot efface from the me-
mory of those who stood about the bier of the
dead President.
	After the casket had been placed in the hearse
the remainder of the party entered their car-
riages and took their places in the procession.
President Arthur's followed immediately after
the hearse, and in it were Mr. Arthur, Secretary
Blaine, Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Win-
dom. The carriage containing Mrs. Garfield and
daughter was driven down Pennsylvania Avenue
to Four and one-half street, and thence to the
dwelling of Attorney General McVeagh; whose
guest she was during her stay in the city.
	With muffled drums and solemn funeral d[-]ge
the procession moved slowly up the Avenue. A
dense mass lined the sidewalks all the way from
Sixth street to the east front of the Capitol, and
along this portion of the route the crowd was ap-
parently as great as upon the occasion of the late
President's inaugural procession. The compari-
son between the two occasions was doubtless in
many minds, and numerous expressions of sor-
row were heard at the sad contrast. As the pro-
cession moved up the Avenue scarcely a sound
was heard save that of the feet of moving men
and horses. Hats were removed and heads bowed
as by a common impulse of deep and unfeigned
grief.
	At the east front of the capitol building a vast
assemblage had congregated to view the funeral
cortege. At the foot of the steps there was a
double file of senators and representatives head-
ed by their officers, waiting in respectful silence
to escort the remains into the rotunda. At pre-
cisely 5.10 p.m. the head of the sad procession
moving around the south side of the capitol, ar-
rived at the east front, the arms of the military
being reversed and the bands playing a dead
march. The order was then given to carry
arms and the troops came to a front face, while
to a muffled beat of the drums the hearse and
its attendant train of carriages drew slowly up
in front of the escort. A hush came over the
multitude and heads were reverently uncovered
as the casket was carefully lifted from the
hearse. The officers of the army and navy drew
up in parallel lines on either side of the hearse
and the marine band played again "Nearer My
God to Thee," as with solemn tread the re-
mains of President Garfield were borne into the
rotunda and placed upon the catafalque, the
Senators and Representatives preceding and
ranging themselves on each side of the dais.
Close behind the casket walked President Ar-
thur and Secretary Blaine, who were followed
by Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Windom,
General Grant and Secretary Hunt, Secretary
Lincoln and Attorney General MacVeagh, Sec-
retary Kirkwood and Postmaster-General James,
Col. Rockwell and Gen. Swain and Col. Corbin
and Private Secretary Brown.
	At 5.25 p. m. the lid of the casket was opened
and the face of the late President was exposed
to view. Noiselessly President Arthur and Sec-
retary Blaine approached and gazed upon the
face of the dead, and then slowly and sadly
passed out of the hall. A line was formed by
Sergeant-at-Arms Bright, and one by one those
present advanced and glanced at the emaciated

[Column 2]
and discolored face. The public at large were
then admitted, and hundreds of persons testified
by their reverential conduct and mournful coun-
tenances the sorrow which they experienced in
looking upon the features of their murdered
president.
	The body lay in state day and night until
Friday evening. A detail of 40 members of the
Army of the Cumberland tendered their ser-
vices to act as a guard of honor.
	As the shadows of night began to fall, the vast
dome of the Capitol was illuminated and the dim
light, falling upon the mournful drapings of
the rotunda and upon the still face of the
dead President served but to heighten the
solemnity.
	At 11:20 two closed carriages drove to the esat
lower entrance of the Senate wing, and the
occupants alighted, and passed up the private
stairs to the Vice-President's room. All the
corridors and passage ways upon the main floor
of the Senate were quickly barred to all callers,
and instructions were given by the sereant-at-
arms, to employees and the captain of police on
duty, to keep themselves hidden in the recess
of the windows and doors while Mrs. Garfield
passed through to the rotunda. The rotunda
was entirely cleared, the guard of honor retiring
from view for a time. In a few minutes the
little procession emerged from the Vice-Presi-
dent's room and passed around through the
silent and deserted main passage way of the
building. Sergeant-at-arms Bright Lead-
ing. Then followed Mrs. Garfield, leaning on
the arm of General Swain; Harry Garfield,
Mollie and Miss Rockwell, Colonel and Mrs.
Rockwell and Attorney General MacVeagh and
Mrs. Swain. Not a sound was heard, save foot-
steps on the floor, as the little company entered
in sombre garments of deepest mourning, passed
silently on to mingle their tears and prayers and
pay the last earthly tribute over the casket which
sealed from view the form and features of the
dead and loved husband, father and friend.
After remaining about twenty minutes in the
rotunda they returned quietly and with the same
privacy that marked their entrance, and passing
through to the Senate wing, entered the carriage
and returned to the residence of the attorney
general.
	General Sheridan was selected as one of the
guards of honor to accompany the remains of
the late President of the United States from
the national Capitol, to Cleveland, Ohio, and to
continue with them until they were consigned to
their final resting place.
	About 12 o'clock, midnight, the stream of peo-
ple who visited the capitol to take a last glance
at the casket which contained the remains of
President Garfield was sensibly diminished, and
as the night wore on it ceased almost entirely.
A few groups of persons passed through the ro-
tunda after that hour but it was not until day-
light that the crowd augmented to any con-
siderable extent.
	The doors of the rotunda were closed at 10.50
and all persons except the sergeant-at-arms,
their assistants and the guard of honor were
obliged to leave the hall.
	The floral offerings had been rearranged, the
wreath, of Queen Victoria had a central position.
On either side were great floral crosses and a
magnificent floral pillow at their base, inscribed
"Our Martyred President," "The Gates Ajar,"
"Knights of Malta" and "Garfield Union Vete-
rans," all beautiful offerings. The whole ap-
pearance of the catafalque was tasteful and ele-
gant.
	Hundreds of bouquets were brought. One
from Richmond was a large white floral angel
about the size of a child five years old holding
a silver trumpet. It was suspended over
the coffin. This was the gift of James Worm-
ley, the colored hotel keeper.
	At 1.45 o'clock, the doors of the rotunda were
opened. The first section to arrive was Knights
Templars, Beauzanut Commandery of Balti-
more. They entered in full regalia, but did not
remain in the hall, simply passing around the
catafalque in double file. Four of their number,
Sir Knight Stevens, Lawton, Bieler and Jen-
nings, bore floral offerings in the shape of an im-
mense maltese cross, which was reverently
placed at the head of the dais.
	At 2.10, members of the Army of the Cum-
berland filed in by the door leading from the
Senate Chamber,and took the seats reserved for
them. Immediately after the doors were thrown
open to all holders of tickets. In 10 minutes
the chairs set apart for the general public were
completely filled. Soon members of the diplo-
matic corps arrived and were ushered to seats re-
served for them. The military portion of the

[Column 3]
procession, which escorted the remains to the
depot, formed in front, and facing the east front
of the Capitol, with the district military hold-
ing the right of the line.
	The crush for admittance into the Capitol re-
sulted in breaking down the ropes placed to re-
strain the crowd, and before they were replaced
many without tickets obtained an entrance.
The seats in the rotunda were soon filled and
further admittance denied. The entrance of
President Arthur, accompanied by Gen. Grant,
caused nearly the whole audience to rise in or-
der to get a good look at them. They advanced
slowly to their respective seats in the front row,
next to that of the cabinet. Arthur was grave
and dignified, his tall figure dwarfing that of
Grant. The latter wore his usual fixed expres-
sion. Ex-President Hayes entered soon after
and took a seat near Grant. The silence of the
crowded rotunda was unbroken except by the
rustling of ladies' fans. Arthur, in entering,
leaned upon the arm of Secretary Blaine. Im-
mediately after followed by ex-Prest. Hayes,
Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Secretary and Mrs.
Lincoln, Secretary and Mrs. Hunt, Attorney
General and Mrs. MacVeagh, Secretary Kirk-
wood and Postmaster-General James. Mrs.
Garfield and the immediate family were not
present at the ceremonies. There was some
little confusion in seating the diplomatic corps,
representatives of the army and navy, senators
and members of the House of Representatives,
occasioned by a change on the part of some one
in charge of the arrangement in not reserving a
sufficient number of seats. At 3 o'clock every
seat was filled and all available standing room
occupied. The services were opened by Rev.
Dr: Powers promptly at 3 p.m. He ascended
the dais, and briefly announced the opening
hymn, "Asleep in Jesus, blessed sleep," which
was rendered by a chorus of fifty voices.
	Rev. Dr. Rankin ascended the platform at the
head of the catafalque and read, in a clear, dis-
tinct voice, the following selections of scriptures:
"The Lord reigneth: the floods have lifted up
their voice, the Lord on high is mightier than
the voice of many waters; clouds and darkness
are around about him, righteousness and judg-
ment are the habitation of his throne; by him
kings reign and princes decree justice; he chang-
eth times and seasons; he removeth kings and
setteth up kings, for there is no power but of
God. The powers that be, are ordained of God.
Whosoever, therefore, resisteth the power, re-
sisteth the ordinance of God, and by that resist-
ance shall receive to themselves damnation,"
and some passages from St. John and the Gos-
pels with exceeding effect.
	Rev. Dr. Isaac Everett then offered prayer.
He spoke in a clear but low tone, and with much
evidence of deep feeling. As the closing words
of the prayer died away, the Rev. F. D. Power,
of Vermont Avenue Christian Church, of which
President Garfield was a member, delivered a
feeling address. He spoke in a clear voice and
was distinctly heard in every portion of the
hall.
	At the conclusion of Dr. Powers' address, Rev.
J. G. Butler offered a prayer. The reverend
gentleman, in conclusion, paid an eloquent and
touching tribute to Mrs. Garfield, referring to
the noble and Christian spirit which she had
exhibited in her hour of sorrow and tribulation
and exhorted her to look to God in the days of
her affliction. He invoked divine blessings on the
fatherless children, that the sons should, under
the benediction of God, grow up to noble man-
hood, and that the bereaved daughter might
rise into glorious womanhood and live to be a
comfort to her widowed mother. He besought
God to have pity on the dear old mother over
the mountains, waiting for the dead body of her
darling son, now that she was old and gray
haired.
	The funeral ceremonies were concluded at
about 4 p. m., when the casket was at once
removed to the hearse, in waiting at the east
front of the Capitol. A few minutes later the
procession marched through. A military escort
preceded the hearse, which was followed by a
long line of carriages, two abreast. The military
marched up the avenue to the depot and dis-
persed, and the casket was taken at once to the
train in waiting at the Baltimore and Potomac
depot. The sidewalks of the avenue at and
intersecting the street corners were thronged
with thousands of spectators.
	Mrs. Garfield was taken on board the train
without attracting any attention. The funeral
train was the same used on the trip from Long
Branch with two additional cars. The first was
a baggage car and the second was occupied by
Mrs. Garfield, her daughter and son, Mrs. Reed,


[Column 1]
General Swain, Colonel Rockwell, Dr. Boynton,
Stanley Brown, Warren Young and Mr. Judd.
The third carried members of the cabinet and
their wives, ex-President Hayes, Justices of the
Supreme Court and S. A. Brown, chief clerk of
the state department. Upon the fourth car
were General Sherman and Generals Hancock,
Meigs, Drum and Sacket, Admiral Porter, Vice-
Admiral Rowan, Commodore English, Surgeon-
General Wales and Pay Director Tooker. The
fifth car bore the remains of the President and
a military guard composed of six soldiers and a
sergeant, from the Second Artilery. 
	The funeral train arrived in Ceveland at 1:12.
It was met by an immense concourse. There
was no confusion. The ladies took carriages.
Mrs. Garfield was supported by Secretary Blaine,
and Harry Garfield was the guest of Jas. Mason.
Mother Garfield and other relatives were at the
house of Gen. Sheldon. The body was taken
from the car by a detachment of the regular
army in uniform, and borne to a special hearse,
followed by a distinguished guard of honor, Gen-
erals Sherman, Sheridau, Hancock, Dunn,
Meigs and naval officers, the Supreme Court,
Cabinet, Governor Foster and staff, and a large
number of army and navy troops. The route
takes down Euclid avenue, and the remains
were placed without ceremony in the pavillion
to lie in state in a bed of flowers.
	The catafalque on which Garfield's remains
laid in state occupied the centre of Monu-
mental Park and was imposing in architecture
and dimensions. A platform was erected
five feet six inches above the ground, approach-
ed by a gentle incline from the east and west.
Upon this square was a pavillon, covered by
a canopy, at the apex of which was a large
globe, upon which stood the figure of an
angel represented in the attitude of blessing,
the hands extended in sorrow and benedictive
love over the mourning throng below. Its
wings were extended, the snowy tips approach-
ing above. Dimensions of pavilion—main part,
45 feet square; on each of the four sides an open
arch, 24 feet wide and 30 feet high; the canopy
tapered to an apex 72 feet above the ground;
globe nearly five feet in diameter; statue, 24 feet
in height, its wing tips being at a total altitude
of 96 feet above the ground. The keystone of
each arch was an eagle decorated with the
emblem of mourning. The four columns of the
angles of the pavilion were surmounted by
minarets 22 feet high, fashioned of festooned
flags. Projecting from each corner was a
magnificent banner. Around the entire pavilion
was a decorated cornice. The whole struc-
ture was profusely festooned with black and
white drapery blended with artistic simplicity.
Florists impoverished their greenhouses in
furnishing floral decorations. These were
most elaborate. Laurel wreaths filled up the
niches in the structure. Draped cannons were
at each corner of the platform. imposing
projections were constructed at the base for
this purpose. The casket containing the re-
mains was placed in the centre of this
pavilion, upon a slight elevation and guarded by
a force of soldiery. 
	The casket was placed by pall bearers on the
dais underneath the canopy supported by four
gilt Egyptian columns. On account of the feel-
ings of the widow the face was not exposed,
but instead was placed an admirable copy of a
likeness taken by J. T. Ryder on Garfield's re-
turn from the Chicago Convention, a most
natural portrait. On the shelves of the pavilion
on either side were a multitude of floral offerings,
conspicuous among which were a cross from
Erie Commandery Knights Templars, inscribed
in flowerets, "Garfield," a unique monogram
emblem with an inscription in flowers, "Detta
Ipsilon fraternity to the memory of our brother;"
a floral piece surmounted by a dove with the seal
of Cincinnati wrought in blossoms, "Juiaia Ju-
vant;" a piece from Washington, in elaborate
design representing the gates ajar; an open book
with "God reigns," in roses; a broken column
from Washington, a cross and a crown; an ex-
quisite piece from Cincinnati; representing a
field, a broken wheel, a sheaf of wheat and the
motto, "The harvest is over;" a floral standing
scroll surmounted by a white dove; a floral pillow,
with "Rest in Peace," similarly wrought; a
magnificent floral representation of a ship
stranded and dismantled; an open book with a
cross and dove; a pillow surmounted by a white
dove, and "Our Martyred President," inscribed;
two handsome lyres; another broken column; two
shields; another anchor and a cross, at the base
of which is the inscription, "Gone, but not for-
gotten;" a scroll with "Peace" worked in buds;
a lyre, pillow and shields; a broken column, with

[Column 2]
a card marked, "With the Sympathies of the
Washington Council, True United Americans;"
a crown over a pillow; a floral urn; a broken col-
umn of tube roses, from Joseph Perkins; an
urn; a large dove perching upon an anchor and
a crown; a large broken column on a pedestal; an
open book, inscribed, "Thy Will Be Done;" a
lyre and laurel wreath; a wheat field with wheat
in the corner, and the inscription, "Gathered;"
a column as a headstone of a grave, with the
inscription, "Garfield, a Bearer to Posterity;" a
large green cross with a wreath: an anchor,
chain and a motto, "Rest in Peace;" a floral rep-
resentation of the gates ajar, and a withered,
broken column. Because the pavilion decorations
were not entirely finished, none outside of the
committee were admitted to the pavilion during
the night. According to the wish of the widow,
the casket was not opened, and when the
lines were opened to the public, spectators
had to be content with observing the casket
with the portrait at the head, and the inscrip-
tion:

"Life's race well run,
Life's work well done,
Life's crown well won;
Now comes rest."

	The morning opened cloudy, but by 8 o'clock
the sky was cloudless and the day a perfect one
throughout. The streets were thronged with
surging crowds. 
	It seemed as if Cleveland was in the cen-
tre of the world. Every individual that
contributed to compose the largest crowd that
was probably ever assembled in Ohio, seemed to
feel this. From the great public square in the
central part of the city to the hills and solemn
dales of Lakeview Cemetery, a distance of six
miles, there was a continuous wall of people on
either side. The funeral train passed nearly
the whole way along that magnificent broad and
grand avenue which the great American travel-
er, Bayard Taylor, pronounced the finest in the
world. The abodes of luxury and wealth on
either side appeared heavily draped in the habili-
ments of mourning. A favorite view which
Garfield took of humanity was that of the great
Pascal. He was often heard by his friends to
compare the nation to one colossal man. Were
he alive again, and could he have seen crape
on the door-posts of the entire country that day,
he would have been better satisfied with the
truth of his favorite illustration than ever
before. He would have seen the colossal man
with uncovered head, bent in tears and inconsol-
able in his grief. The modest unassuming wife
of the President desired no display, but her dead
husband is glorious now and famed," and the
people must give proper expression to their great
grief. She remained away as long as possible
from the park devoted to the obsequies, and her
grief seemed only aggravated by what was done
there. A mass of anxious people sixteen years
ago in the same place beheld the form of the
martyr Lincoln. That was a time of excite-
ment and of war almost, and it took but a spark
to ignite a great fire. But the crowd of that day,
while it was far greater than ever before in the
city, was docile and solemn and seemed only
desirous of contributing its small mite toward
properly burying a dead hero in whom it had
more than a passing interest. 
	Promptly at 10:30 the ceremonies at the pa-
vilion began. The immediate members of the
family and near relatives and friends took seats
about the casket, and at each corner was sta-
tioned a member of the Cleveland Grays, each of
whom stood like a statue during the entire pro-
gramme. The committee members about the
pavilion were almost cloaked in crape, their
draping being very heavy. The exercises opened
by the singing by the Cleveland Vocal Society
of the "Funeral Hymn," by Beethoven, as
follows:
Thou are gone to the grave, but we will not deplore
		thee,
	Tho sorrow and darkness encompass the tomb,
The Savior has passed thro' its portal before thee,
	And the lamp of His love is thy light thro' the gloom.

	Passages from the Scripture were then read
by the Right Rev. Bishop Bedell, of the Episco-
pal diocese of Ohio:
	"Man that is born of a woman is of few days,
and full of trouble.
	"He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut
down: the fleeth also as a shadow, and continu-
eth not," etc.
	The Rev. Ross C. Houghton, pastor of the
First M. E. Church, then offered up prayer. 
	At this point the vocal society sang, "To Thee,
Oh Lord, I yield my Spirit," etc. Rev. Isaac

[Column 3]
Everett, of Cincinnati, then delivered an elo-
quent address, taking for his text, II Chronicles,
xxxiii, 23, 27. This is a time of mourning that
has no parallel in the history of the world. 
Death is constantly occurring, and every day,
and every hour and almost every moment, some
life expires, and somewhere there are broken
hearts and desolation, but we have to adopt mor-
tality, and we stay a moment and drop a tear
and away again to excitements and ambitions
and forget it all. A man is called that plunges
a large community in mourning, and sometimes
whole nations mourn the loss of a king, or a
wise statesman, or a friend, or a great philoso-
pher, or philanthropist, or a martyr, who has
risked his life on the altar of truth and won for
himself an anxious immortality among the sons
of men; but there was never a mourning in all
the world like unto this mourning. I am not
speaking extravagantly when I say it far surpas-
ses the result of calculation carefully made from
such data as is found that certainly not less than
300,000,000 of the human race shared in the sor-
row and lamentations that belong to this occa-
sion here to-day. Its piercing chill has extend-
ed itself into every home in all this land, and
into every heart, and that has projected itself
over vast seas and oceans into distant lands, and
awakened the most sincere and profound sym-
pathy with us in the hearts of good people of all
nations and among all people. 
	The whole discourse was eloquent and ex-
pressive and was listened to with most earnest
attention. 
	The Rev. Jabez Hall then read President
Garfield's favorite hymn, which was beautifully
rendered by the vocal society, beginning:

"Hot reapers of life's harvest,
	Why stand with rusted blade,
Until the night draws round thee
	And day begins to fade?"

	President Hinsdale, of Hyrum College, made
a short and impressive prayer. Dr. Chas. T.
Pomeroy delivered the final benediction. Then
the Washington Marine Band played "Nearer
my God to Thee."
	The funeral procession moved from Monu-
mental Park at 11.53 o'clock. The time occu-
pied in moving the casket from the pavilion to
the funeral car was about 15 minutes. A corps
of United States marines from the steamer
Michigan formed parallel lines from the east
side of the pavilion to the the east entrance to the
park, through which the casket was borne on
the shoulders of United States artillerymen,
under the command of Lieutenant Weaver to
the funeral car, followed by mourners, who took
seats in the carriage. Grandma Garfield bore the
services remarkably well, as did also the widow
of the President. The only incident which oc-
curred at the pavilion was the request of Grand-
ma Garfield for a drink of water. Many people
construed this as an indication that the old lady
was faint, but such was not the case.
	Re-entering their carriages, the mourners
drove hurriedly back to avoid another shower
which threatened. Tke military and Masonic
escort left the cemetery in the same order in
which they entered, and kept in line until the
catafalque was reached, where they were dis-
missed. General Smith, adjutant-general of the
State, will furnish a guard as long as the body
remains in the vault. The sexton thinks it will
be but a few days until the final interment takes
place. Mrs. Garfield, while at the cemetery,
said she did not think there was sufficient
time to prepare the grave for interment,
and the ca[---]t was therefore placed in a
vault at the cemetery. At 10 o'clock in the
morning there were 5,000 on the ground; at 12
o'clock the Fourteenth Ohio National Guard,
500 in number, arrived and cleared the grounds
of all strangers, and no one was allowed to en-
ter until the funeral party arrived. At the
vault were Company D, of the Fourteenth Ohio
N. G., and a number of ladies engaged in trim-
ming the dais and draping the vault in deep
black crape. The dais used to lay the coffin on
in the vault was covered with velvet, trimmed
with black broadcloth and deep black fringe.
The pathway from the carriageway, where the
cortege stepped into the vault was covered with
ceder-laid lawn, neatly sewed together. On the
top of this was scattered white flowers, immor-
telles, tuberoses, etc.; right in front of the gate
at the emtrance to the vault was spread a large
piece of carpet covered with tuberoses and other
white flowers. This is covered over with a
canopy of deep black broadcloth. Just outside
the vault, at the gate, there was a crown of ele-
gant white flowers placed with the motto "dead,
but not forgotten." It was from the Bolivian
delegation.


