MAKE HOME BEAUTIFUL.

	The young ladies of to-day have many more
advantages and opportunities for cultivating
those little artistic talents which so beautify
and embellish the home, than did our parents.
There are now teachers in every branch of art,
and materials to work with.
	Among the most delicate and beautiful
branches of art may be classed hand embroid-
ery. All sorts of beautiful flowers, birds and
unique designs can be made with the needle
and silk on curtains, lambrequins, table and
chair covers, &c. Nothing can make a prettier
present than some little embroidered scarf,
handkerchief or nick-nack, with the words:
"It is not much, but I worked it myself;" and
you will find it highly appreciated. Among
the wealthy the drapery of rooms is all em-
broidered in beautiful colors, and at present
this class of work is quite fashionable as well
as beautiful. Ladies now-a-days are also tak-
ing a great deal to drawing and painting, in
both water colors and oil, and here in this
country, where the landscapes all around are
most lovely and charming, one would have
abundant advantage and encouragement for the
art. How exceedingly delightful it would be,
when out on a May-walk, or summer picnic, to
be able to sit down and sketch the scene you
visited, and returning home finish it up in the
life-like colors for your portfolio, as a remem-
brance of the pleasant day.
	Music is not less attractive aud fascinating
because it is mentioned among the last, but, on
the contrary, it seems to me it must be the
most delightful of all the arts. How happy it
must make one feel to be able to bring pleasure
and joyousness through the medium of the
voice, and how thankful that one ought to be
to his Creator; that he has such a gift. Yet
this talent, as well as the others, needs cultivat-
ing. The voice may be beautiful and clear,
but cultivation gives it a finish that renders a
naturally good voice capable of the most en-
chanting sounds.
	Elocution is a talent that until lately has

[Left Margin "Annie N. C[---]"]

[Column 2]

been neglected here, and there are many who
might make very good readers. It is indeed a
gift for one to be able to bring out the true
meaning, strong force and deep pathos of a
beautiful poem, and it is a delightful pastime
for oneself, as well as pleasing to one's friends,
to be able to read well and understandingly.
'Tis a pity that this talent has not been culti-
vated to a greater extent among our young
people, for the study is in itself most beautiful
and fascinating.
	My dear reader, would you like to visit a
friend with me to-day, and see her lovely little
home? Here it is; and the eye seems rested as
we enter and gaze at the pretty things around.
My friend, always busy, must keep us waiting
a little while for her coming, so we will amuse
ourselves by glimpsing around at the little par-
lor. First, here is the book-case—a neat, ele-
gant little piece of furniture of ebony and
glass, and completely filled with a miscellaneous
gathering of books, all the poets of course, a
few nice novels, such as Charlotte Bronte might
write, some fine histories, the best essays, per-
haps Macaulay's, Johnson's, Emerson's; beauti-
ful little books on art, travels and writers, and
all those treasures of the pen that a fine nature
would wish to possess. In the window is a
flower stand, filled with the most delicate and
rare flowers, and most of them in bloom; the
ivy creeps around the wires of the stand and
up higher, till it reaches the curtains and
forms a verdant wreath for the window case-
ment. In another nook rests a guitar; oh,
how we love the sweet strains that issue forth
from this little instrument! sometimes one
might almost think it had a soul, so touching
are the sounds. Further on, in the corner,
there is the piano, open of course, for in this
home it is for use, not show, and our friend
plays so beautifully; don't think she is a mas-
ter, but her music is quite thrilling, and her
selections are so sweet and pretty; simple it is
true, but, nevertheless, they are the kind that
touch the heart. And here, what is this? An
easel? Yes; and on it an unfinished picture;
nothing much, only a cluster of pure calla lillies,
yet how lovely and natural. The chairs are
all covered with fine embroidery, and little
trinkets adorn the shelf and tables that this
fair hand has made. But here, most beautiful
of all, comes our friend. It is needless to des-
cribe her, the room has done so already. We
were sure of what our greeting would be the
moment we entered, for no home could possibly
have other than the sweetest of women to care
for it.
	Yet, don't think for one moment that this
dear little woman, who cultivates all these
pretty, artistic talents, knows nothing of the
dire necessaries of life; oh, no, she is a capital
housekeeper, her bread, cake, preserves, pies,
&c., are the nicest you ever tasted, and I would
like to have you test them, but there is no time
now, for we have already stayed too long in
this enchanted spot, and the shadows of night
are gathering, and as the stars peep forth from
their hiding places and the flowers hold forth
their leaves for the sparkling dew, I bid you
good-night, with the hope that you will culti-
vate these lovely things, that more homes may
compare with the one just left.
