HOME AFFAIRS.

	Pen Sketch of an Illustrious Woman will be
continued in our next.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG is visiting relatives and
gathering up genealogies at her old home in the
State of New York.

	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON, was in New York
when last heard from, but expected to visit
Hartford, Conn., shortly.

	MUCH matter we intended publishing is left
out to make room for particulars concerning the
President's death and burial.

	THERE will be a Primary Fair in Utah County
October 15th, under the supervision of Mrs.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors.

	THE Book for Primary Associations entitled
Questions and Answers, by Mrs. Eliza R. S.
Smith, will be ready for sale at Conference,

	THE October Conference will convene in the
large Tabernacle on Thursday morning, October
6th. There will no doubt be a very large "atten-
dance.

	THE Primary Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday, Sept. 24th. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson,
presiding.

	THE Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday afternoon, Sept. 24. Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze, presiding.

	WE have had the pleasure of traveling through
a large part of Sanpete County recently in com-
pany with Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith, of this city,
and Mrs. Amelia H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi,
but shall not be able to furnish our readers with
an account of our visit and the meetings we at-
tended, as we have not the space this time. In
our next issue we expect to give all the best
points of our journey, what we saw and heard.

	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT left Salt Lake City,
en route for New York, on Monday morning,
Sept, 26, with the intention of studying under
Dr. Noyes, of Bellvue Hospital, who has made
her a very desirable proposition to instruct her
more fully in the use of the opthalmiscope for ex-
amining the interior of the eye, and also in the
adjusting of glasses in refractory cases of defec-
tive eyesight, two of the most difficult branches
in optics. Mrs. Pratt will be away about six
months.

	THE Utah Territorial Fair will open on Mon-
day, Oct. 3, at the same place formerly used for
that purpose, on West Temple Street, and will
connect with the Deseret Museum, which will
make it doubly interesting.  No pains has been
spared by the several committees to make this
Fair a successful one, and the awarding of special
prizes will be a noticeable feature. Everybody
should go to the Fair; no doubt it will be the
means of promoting home interests in every
department of labor, by stimulating the people
to renewed efforts in stock raising, agriculture,
inventing, home manufacture, and all that will
help develop the elements and resources of Utah.


