A WOMAN DELEGATE.

	At the Massachusetts Republican Conven-
tion, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, the modest and
eloquent advocate of suffrage for women, was
not stopped by a policeman at the door of Me-
chanic's hall and banished to the gallery, there
to await an appeal to the convention, but came
in like every other fellow and made one in the
grand total of 1038 delegated reported by the
elegant Mr. Lodge, of Nahant, for the com-
mittee on credentials. The state central com-
mittee slept on their action of last night, and
thought better of the purpose to go behind the
returns and discriminate against the Melrose
woman delegate. This morning the committee
adopted the following resolution:—
	In view of the recent death of our beloved
President James A. Garfield, and the sad cir-
cumstances under which our state convention
to-day assembles, causing a universal desire on
the part of this committee to have no debate,
no discussion ofs pecial subjects in open conven-
tion; and also in consideration of the fact that
our chairman has upon his personal responsi-
bility directed the issuing of a ticket of admis-
sion to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a delegate
from the town of Melrose, without approving
her course or acknowledging her right to act
as a delegate in the convention, and without
rescinding from the opinions expressed by this
state central committee at its last session, viz.:
that no person has any right to act as a dele-
gate in the republican state convention who is
not a voter in this state and legally qualified
to vote at the polls for the election of those
state officers who might by their vote be nomi-
nated by the convention,— voted that the action
of this committee at its last session, refusing
admission to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a
delegate without the concurrence of the full
convention, be rescinded.
	The full language is given because the anti-
women faction distinctly and emphatically deny
that they "backed down." You may think
what you please about it. They repudiate the
"insiduendo." Some of them earnestly and
honestly stick for the principle that the partici-
pants in a political convention must be persons
who are legally qualified to vote for its candi-
dates. The certainty, however, of a row in the
convention should Mrs. Livermore be kept out
by express order of the state committee led
the valiant thirteen bitter opponents of her
admission to a compromise. This very dan-
gerous woman had not meditated taking any
part in the proceedings, and readily agreed not
to say anything if her admission was unchal-
lenged.—Springfield Republican


