LIGHT READING.

	By common consent, light reading is gener-
ally denounced, Perhaps the statement is too
sweeping as it stands, and for the purposes of
this brief paper it may be as well to state that
the light reading here intended to be under-
stood refers to that branch customarily desig-
nated as "novel-reading." While I do not
wish to recommend novel reading, I do wish to
say that it is not without its virtues; that how-
ever many evils some may discover in it—many
of which are undeniably genuine—it has at-
tractions that recommend it to the judicious,
and that, despite the evil results attending ill-
timed and excessive light reading, the benefits
that accrue to those who exercise wisdom in it
are manifold and lasting. Like some other
good things in this world which could be men-
tioned, it suffers from abuse; and to the super-
ficial, the truth that it is capable of injury is a
sufficient argument that it can be pursued to
no good end. They overlook the fact, that the
evil is in the person, not in the thing.
	The most popular recommendation in favor
of light reading, and the one which, on account
of a lack of wisdom, brings it into such gen-
eral disrepute—is that of relaxation. When
followed purely for the purposes of relief, it is
at once one of the most pleasing, profitable,
effective and healthful. It is pleasing for the
reason that it entertains; it is effective, because
the relaxation is complete, it is healthful in
that no strain upon the system is due to it, no
 effort is required to draw the mind from the
subjects that have occupied it for hours, and
made it weary, and it fits the mind, by exhil-
erating the tone, for other labors; it is profit-

[Column 2]

able, because, however light the reading may
be, if the person that peruses it it moderately
intelligent and ordinarily apt, something of
profit can be found in it. In fact, one might
go so far as to declare, with a reasonable satis-
faction that the assertion is susceptible of proof,
that, there is no class of light reading—unless
it be actually vile and vicious—but some good
may be derived from it, if the person is capa-
ble of making it profitable.
	But to give sounder reasons why light read-
ing is productive of good. All will admit that
there are many worse things than the reading
of novels, even though they come under the
ignoble appellation of "trash." Parents, if
they are of sound mind, should find actual
comfort in the reading of light literature by
their children, when it keeps their offspring off
the streets and away from the influences of
evil and vicious habits. There is some good in
it in this regard, is there not?
	If the habit of reading once becomes con-
firmed, it is rarely if ever broken; and after it
has once taken hold, if care be exercised, but,
little difficulty will be experienced in introduc-
ing a higher standard of literature. Persons
who read from the force of habit, if they can-
not obtain that which is not—for they
will read.
	Reading is one of the most potent factors in
the cause of education; because, while pursued
from love, or habit, it unavoidably disseminates
information. It is a labor of love, but it
proves an effective physic also. In teaching a
child anything, it is necessary to begin at the
rudiments, and light reading is one of hte rudi-
ments to the habit of general reading.
	Since it imparts knowledge even when un-
sought, so also does it develop intelligence, even
when there is no active desire for intelligence;
and this intelligence will manifest itself in the
gradual and voluntary—though almost imper-
ceptible—selection of a higher class of litera-
ture, providing the nature of the reader is pro-
gressive.
	On the principle that like begets like, the
reader of ideas must himself create ideas; and
taking this as a basis, in this fact alone can be
found much profit in light reading. These
should be sufficient in themselves to stand as
recommendations in favor of light reading.
Mind you, it is not claimed that light reading
is preferable to solid reading, but that it is bet-
ter than no reading at all. Neither is it held
that the reasons given will apply to all, but
they will stand as applicable for genereal pur-
poses. But there are still other reasons which
advise light reading for the actual benefits it
insures, and which can be secured more readily
through it than by any other means, I will
omit a repetition of the recommendation found
in it as a source of relaxation, which, being
within the reach of all, at all times and all
places, cannot be surpassed, and will place it
on the ground that it is indispensable to the
cultivated mind, and that it occupies the same
exalted position as the study of art—for it is
a study of art. The well-read person, whose
conversation possesses such a charm is not one
who has informed himself upon scientific sub-
jects and become conversant with the classics
alone, but he is a person of general reading,
who has found food for reflection, who has dis-
covered profound thoughts, eloquent ideas and
moving sentiments in the products of the
novel-writer. Such a person feels the power
for good that is wielded by the writer of the
novel, and he has but to point to the products
of the brain of such men as Sir Walter Scott,
Charles Dickens and Charles Read, in Eng-
land, and to Nathaniel Hawthorne and others
of our own country, for a confirmation. The
novel is a power, and in the hands of a man
of genius, imbued with correct principles and
noble aspirations, it is a power for great, for

[Column 3]

widespread good, than which none can be
greater. Of course it is abused, so also is the
pulpit—the footstool of hte Lord—abused, but
no one would ever think of overthrowing the
pulpit because it has been defiled, any more
than they would think of throwing away a
dollar whidch could be used to clothe or feed
the poor, or to do one of a thousand praise
worthy things—because some one had formerly
employed the dollar for a vile purpose. What
we want to do is to see if we cannot find some
thing useful in the novel, as we do when in
kinder words we weigh the character of some
erring soul, and confess the good when we dis-
cover it. We should cease to make up our
minds it is bad, and peruse it only for the pur-
pose of finding out that which is unwholesome.
	I did intend explaining why novel reading
occupied a similar position to the study of art;
but I would not have space to do so in this ar-
ticle, and will defer it to another time. I only
ask a suspension of judgment until the oppor-
tunity to explain is afforded, when I am con-
vinced, I can prove my claim to be based upon
liberal, beneficial and logical principles
