BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Soon after the return of President Brigham
Young and my father from Europe, they were
appointed chaplains to the Nauvoo Legion.
Their uniform was of black cloth, with cha-
peaus and plumes of the same color. After
the Prophet's assassination, President Brigham
Young was appointed in his stead as Lieut.-
General of the Legion.
	We were living but a little distance from
the training ground, where we witnessed many
grand displays, as well as on the prairie, where
they went to hold a three day's muster.
	I can call to mind many a pleasing reminis-
cence in the midst of our journeyings, while
others have grown dim in the lapse of years,
that have brought their various and trying
changes to all, more particularly to the Latter-
day Saints, who have been driven and scourged
for many years. The Lord has various ways
of bringing His children to repentance, and in
having to drink deep of the bitter cup, we
know better than any other people how to
sympathize with others when they are called
to suffer in a similar manner; and it has also
taught us how to enjoy the sweets as they come,
and I believe that we have been and are still
the happiest people living, for the Holy Spirit
has assisted us, and that with a clear conscience
is of more worth than the whole world without
it.
	In dwelling upon the early scenes in Nauvoo,
my mind reverts back to a time in Kirtland
when our brethren were in the habit of train-
ing every Saturday, and I can remember with
what joy and childish delight we would wel-
come that day, and I remember too how I
used to love to hear the old patriotic songs,
and to read or listen to the tales rehearsed con-
cerning what was then called "the late war"
with Great Britain, and also the revolutionary
war, where our liberty was bought with the
blood of our patriots.
	We were believers in an unpopular religion;
the founder was quite a young man, but was
called an old gold digger. Our claims to the
privileges guaranteed us by the Constitution,
though gained through long years of hard-
ships, suffering and privation, and the death of
many of our heroic sires, were denied us, and
my father and his brethren were obliged to
arm themselves; and for weeks were not per-
mitted to take off their clothes, and laid on the
ground with their firelocks night after night to
preserve the lives of the Prophet and their
families from those wicked traitors who were
threatening destruction upon them.
	The place where they daily mustered was in
a large meadow just behind our house, belong-
ing to Brother Ira Bond, and oh! how much I
enjoyed the training and music of their marital
band; it seemed one continual holiday for us
children, who had very little idea of the mean-
ing of it.
	Peace was restored for a little season, but we
had been in Far West just three weeks when the
brethren had to again rally together to defend
themselves from the mobbers of Missouri.
	We had moved into a portion of the public
storehouse, where we remained until father
built a small cabin, which he had intended for
a stable when our dwelling house was finished.
The storehouse stood on one side of the square
where the Saints had dug the foundation for a
Temple. This was the gathering place, where
the brethren mustered; they often came to our
door for a refreshing draught of water and to
rest in the shade of the house, as the weather
was extremely warm.
	I well remember the morning when the first
of the mobbers entered the city; we were at-
tending school, which was taught by Brother
Jesse Haven and his sister, who had lately,

[Column 2]
come there from Massachusetts. She was a
very sweet lady and greatly beloved by the
scholars and finally by all who became ac-
quainted with her. After we came to Nauvoo
she was married to Brother Israel Barlow, who
was among the first "Mormons," and they are
now living in Bountiful, Utah. The school-
house was a large, fine building, with an entry,
which the Saints had built on the outskirts of
the town. When the mobbers came in they
passed by the schoolhouse, and at the sound of
their bugle the excitement was so great that
we were allowed to go to the windows to see
them pass. Soon after this the school had to
be closed, in consequence of the mobbing.
During a portion of the next winter we at-
tended one taught by William Huntington in
a private dwelling house in the central part of
the city. I never realized any danger, but,
fired by the spirit of war, my eldest brother,
with my assistance, prepared for it by making
wooden guns, swords and flags, and the latter
were hoisted to the topmost part of our [-]ence or
cabin, where they could be seen fluttering in
the breeze, and at the martial sound of fife and
drum we would start to our feet and march
with as much enthusiasm as though we be-
longed to a regiment of soldiers. We realized
no danger, were probably too young; besides,
we were at headquarters. Many of the Saints
had fled to Far West for protection; not even
when the city was surrounded by the mob we
never knew that we were conquered, nor that
there were such fiends in a land that boasted of
freedom, professing Christianity, but no con-
sideration of justice or mercy could move their
stony hearts. Polygamy did not cause that, as
it had not been revealed.
	After many of the Saints had been massa-
cred, and others died through want and sick-
ness occasioned by their brutal course in the
dead of winter, the rest fled for their lives to
the then hospitiable State of Illinois, where
for a little season they enjoyed peace and the
privilege of organizing their men into a Le-
gion.
	Once more we could celebrate the glorious
and never-to-be-forgotten day of our nation's
Independence, the Fourth of July, which was
ushered in by the welcome peals of artillery,
and our martial and brass bands playing the
soul-thrilling airs that will never cease to in-
spire the heart of every true son and daughter
of freedom.
	Every act of our people from their first or-
ganization until the present time—although
they have been so cruelly persecuted and
driven from their homes, and many sealed their
testimony with their blood, and finally were
driven from out the United States—has proven
our loyalty to the Constitution, though opportu-
nities for forming other ties were not wanting,
which any other community under like circum-
stances would have accepted; but we had
brought with us the beloved stars and stripes,
which we had never deserted, no, not even
when Governor J. W. Shaeffer, to gratify his
spleen, prohibited the mustering of the Nauvoo
Legion. Our people considered it nothing
more nor less than a silly farce, which was
gracefully submitted to, as all other similar re-
quirements have been, thereby taking their
own weapons from out their hands; but when
required to give up our right to "serve God
according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences," and to accept of others' notions and
ideas of virtue and morality, that is quite an-
other thing; and though they may howl and
continue to heap upon us their contemptible
falsehoods, and call us bad names, they need
not flatter themselves that the "Mormon" wo-
men are so ignorant of the law, or so weak and
simple-minded as to be hoodwinked by any
man, not even a "Mormon." Our enemies
know as well as we do that we have broken no
law in practising Polygamy, it being a Bible

[Column 3]
doctrine, and we revive it as coming from the
Almighty, who sanctioned and honored it by
bringing forth our Savior through polygamous
lineage, and He declared that He was "the
root and the offspring of David."
	If people calling themselves Christians will
persist in denying this part of the Scriptures,
they had better burn up the whole. Before
my father ever heard that such a principle had
been revealed to Joseph Smith he said to some
friends in my hearing that if "all things were
to be restored again as they were in the begin-
ning," as the Scriptures declare them, the prin-
ciple of a plurality of wives must also be re-
stored; and he was heard to repeat the same
when on his second mission to Europe, but he
said he hardly expected it would come in his
day. And when he heard it taught by Joseph
Smith, he said the shock was similar to that of
an earthquake; and when he commanded him
to take another wife, if it had been his death
sentence he could not have felt worse, and
there were others who felt similar; and if it
could have been just as acceptable in the sight
of God, they would have chosen death. The
few humble Saints who heard the principle
from the Prophet's lips knew that he was a
true Prophet of God, for the Holy Spirit bore
witness to them that the principle was from
Him, and they knew too that Joseph Smith
would never have had the courage to introduce
such a doctrine, much less to command men to
enter into it whose traditions made it so obnox-
ious to their natural feelings, if it had not been
commanded by the Almighty, for he was fully
aware of the jeopardy in which he placed his
own life by doing it, and I know that life was
very dear to him, as much so as to any man
living, and that he was a devoted husband to
his first wife, Emma; and a more affectionate
father never lived; but he also knew that if he
disobeyed that command that he would be des-
troyed, and would also forfeit his eternal salva-
tion.
	If the few who believe this principle to be a
righteous one can afford to endure it, certainly
the stranger ought to leave us to ourselves to
work out the "problem," for we know that with
God's help we shall do it in spite of them.
We realize the greatness of the undertaking,
and also that many sad mistakes have been
made because of the foolishness of fallen man,
but that does not prove the principle to be in-
correct. We have been commanded to "try
all things and to hold fast that which is good,"
and we are trying to obey as far as it is possi-
ble in our weak and sinful states, and if it af-
fords any pleasure to our enemies to hurl their
wicked darts, and continue to waste their am-
munition upon us they are at liberty to do so.
We have learned long ago to keep cool, which
is the most aggravating of all, and I believe
that sensible people will in time become dis-
gusted.
	If those who call themselves Christians
would come to us with a spirit more in accord-
ance with their profession, if we could not all
see alike, we might at least be friends; but the
unrighteous and inhuman course taken to root
out what they please to call "The Twin Relic,"
only arouses in our hearts a more determined
spirit of opposition, and fills every virtuous
and sincere "Mormon" woman with indigna-
tion, and we tell them with the same spirit that
inspired the heroic defenders of liberty at
Bunker Hill, when they said to the infatuated
monarch of England, "We have chosen (re-
ligious) war in preference to voluntary slavery"
to their false ideas and the humbuggeries of ac-
knowledged Mormon-eaters and virtue and life
destroyers.


A LADY candidate is running for the office
of county superintendent of schools on the
Democratic ticket in Iowa County, Wis.


