DR. J. M. BERNHISEL.﻿

	Died at his residence in this city about 11:40
a. m. on Wednesday, September 28, 1881, Dr.
John M. Bernhisel. His disease is said to have
been intermittent fever, from which he had been
suffering only five days. The Doctor was born
June 23, 1799, at Sandy Hill, Pennsylavaina, but
united with the Church of Jesus Christ in the
State of New York, where he was then residing,
and engaged in the practise of his profession.
He belonged to what is known as the "old
school" class of physicians, but he held his own
peculiar views on the subjects of health and hy-
giene.
	Dr. Bernhisel was a true gentleman in every
sense of the word; a man of learning, versed in
literature, and one who ranked high in the medi-
cal profession.
	Deceased was a most intimate and very dear
friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom he
held in the highest reverence as a brother and
servant of God, and he knew, perhaps, more of
his home life than almost any other man, hav-
ing boarded in the family and attended upon
the household as family physician for several
years. He was true as steel to the interests of
the kingdom of God, and willing to endure all
things for the truth's sake. He was genial and
interesting in conversation, such a man as one
never tires of conversing with, for he had always
something to impart, was full of intelligence and
originality.
	Dr. Bernhisel was the first delegate to the
Congress of the United States from Utah, and
while in Washington made many staunch
friends, who still hold him in honorable remem-
brance. His days have been filled with useful-
ness, and he has passed away at peace with all
the world, in the full faith of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, to join the Prophet he so dearly loved and
hosts of Saints who have preceded him, to await
with them the glorious resurrection of the just.
	The funeral of Dr. Bernhisel was held on Fri-
day Sept. 30, in the 17th Ward Assembly Rooms,
of which we will publish particulars hereafter.
	May our Heavenly Father in His tender
mercy soften this sad bereavement to the sor-
rowing family, the widow and her children, and
may they be able to acknowledge the Divine
Hand even in this sore affliction, and rely upon
the arm of the Almighty for strength to endure
this trying ordeal, for though they have been
called to mourn a husband and father, he has
passed to his rest, and is now no doubt rejoicing
that he has gained the victory over death and
the grave.


