	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Since God in His infinite wisdom and mercy,
has seen fit to remove to another sphere of action
our respected and beloved president, Anna K.
Smoot, we her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, an
earnest seeker after truth, a noble and devoted
wife, a wise mother and filled her position as
President of the Primary Association in an ex-
emplary manner. In every step of life we firmly
believe she has pleased her Heavenly Father by 
her steadfastness of purpose and integrity.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family, and her large circle of friends.
	Resolved: that we esteem her labors for the past
ten years as President of the Primary Association
of Utah Stake worthy of emulation, and respect.
	Resolved: that her memory shall ever be held in
loving remembrance by her fellow laborers, and
the children whom she has taught in those
principles that will lead them back to God.
	Resolved: that a copy of these resolutions be
embodied in our Primary R cords, and published
in the local paper, the Deseret News and the
Woman’s Exponent.
	ELIZA TAYLOR, First Counselor.
	SARAH E. CLUFF, Second Coun.
	MABEL PRATT, Secretary.
	IDA CHEEVER, Asst. Sec.
	OTTILLE MAESER,Treasurer.
Provo Jan. 28, 1894.

	AFTER an illness of three weeks, Sister Martha
Seed Thornley, wife of John Thornly, died at her
residence in Layton, Davis County, Utah, on the
11th, of Dec. 1893 from the effects of pneumonia,
superinduced by la grippe.
	Sister Thornley was born in Preston, Lancashire
England, Sep. 22nd, 1819; where she was baptized
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints, by Jos. Fielding in the year 1837,
being among the first to receive the Gospel in
England. She helped to administer physical
comforts to the late President Heber C. Kimball,
Dr. Willard Richards and many other Elders dur-
ing their missionary labors in Lancashire.
	With her husband she emigrated to Utah in
1855, arriving in time to share with the saints the
hard winter of 55-6. Very soon after they re-
moved from Salt Lake to Kaysville, Utah, and
located on Kay's Creek, which at that time could
boast of but three settlers.
	Sister Thornley has ever been a liberal and
faithful member of the Rebel Society and in the
early days was an active teacher and up to her
dying moments, she was a zealous Latter-day
Saint.
	The deceased was the mother of seven children,
four of whom she lived to see consigned, to the


grave; one infant son and three daughters in the
prime of life. These daughters left an infant son
each, and upon the motherless children she
bestowed great labor, love and care, until she
too was called home.
	Shortly before her death she and her husband
with the members of their family, quietly cele-
brated their Golden Wedding; an event for which
they had all waited with fond anticipation.
And that death should have entered the family
circle so soon after is sad indeed, and her loss
falls most heavily upon her companion of fifty
years.

	Sleep on in peace and take thy rest,
	Thy work on earth is o’er,
	Thy weary feet have found sweet rest
	Upon some fairer shore.

	Sleep on in peace, beloved one,
	The morn will soon be here
	When we shall meet eternally
	And not for life’s brief sphere.
