OVERWORKED.
Up with the birds in the early morning--
	The dewdrop glows like a precious gem;
Beautiful tints in the sky are dawning,
	But she’s never a moment to look at them.
The men are wanting their breakfast early;
	She must not linger, she must not wait;
The words that are sharp, and looks that are
	surly,
Are what the men give when the meals are late.

O glorious colors the clouds are turning!
	If she would but look over hills and trees;
But here are the dishes, and there is the churn-
	ing— 
	Those things always must yield to these;
The world is filled with the wine of beauty,
	If she would but pause and drink it in;
But pleasure, she says, must wait for duty—
	Neglected work is committed sin.

The day grows hot and her hands grow weary;
	Oh, for an hour to cool her head!
Out with the birds and the wind so cheery—
	But she must get dinner, and make the bread.
The busy men in the hayfield working,
	If they saw her sitting with idle hand,
Would think her lazy, and call her shirking,
	And she never could make them understand.

They do not know that the heart within her,
	Hungers for beanty and things sublime;
They only know that they want their dinner,
	Plenty of it, and “just on time.”
And after the sweeping and churning and baking,
	And dinner dishes are all put by,
She sits and sews, though her head is aching,
	’Till time for supper and “chores” draws nigh.

Her boys at school must look like others,
	She says, as she patches their frocks and hose,
For the world is quick to censure mothers,
	For the least neglect of their children’s clothes.
Her husband comes from the field of labor,
	He gives no praise to his weary wife;
She’s done no more than has her neighbor—
	’Tis the lot of all in a country life.

But after the strife and weary tussle,
	When life is done, and she lies at rest,
The nation’s brain and heart and muscle—
	Her sons and daughters—shall call her blest;
And I think the sweetest joy of heaven,
	The rarest bliss of eternal life, 
And the fairest crown of all will be given
	Unto the wayworn farmer’s wife.
