PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

	THE magnificent Salt Lake Temple was. indeed a fitting and appropriate place to as-
semble in, to celebrate the anniversary of
tbe birthday of the beloved veteran Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints. It was surely an inspira-
tional thought which suggested that his
friends should gather in honor of this great 
and venerable man within those sacred
walls. His connection with the history of 
this Territory as a pioneer, his standing
with President Young on that very spot in 
1847, and hearing that great leader make
the remark that it was the very place where 
the Temple should be erected, and watch-
ing as he has the progress of the work
thereon from the first breaking of the 
ground until the whole splendid edifice was
completed, and his life having been many
times miraculously preserved and hs de-
sires granted that he might live until it was
finished, his succession to the Presidency,
making him the central figure on that won-
derful occasion, are all facts fraught with
such importance, that to celebrate his an-
niversary therein seems the most proper
and natural thing to render honor where
honor is due. 
	About one o’clock when the people were
gathered in one of the large halls, President
Woodruff rose graciously, and welcomed
his friends with such a spirit of love and
sincerity, that all realized the blessing in 
the few words so fervently spoken. 
	The exercises opened with music by the 
Temple choir, and President George Q. 
Cannon offered an eloquent prayer the
choir sang again and brief congratulatory 
addresses were made by Presidents Lorenzo
Snow and Joseph F. Smith. A song writ-
ten for the occasion by Elder H. W. 
Naisbett was sung to the tune of “Auld
Lang Syne,” by W. C. Dunbar the 
audience joining in the chorus. Apostle
Franklin D. Richards gave a short address
in which he expressed the most tender 
affection for the President, and alluded to
his life and labors in the most glowing
terms. 
	Sister E. B. Wells then read the poem
given below written by Sister E. H. Wood-
mansee. 
