U. W. P. C.			
	
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual on the
last evening of the month at the residence
of Dr. E. R. Shipp. In the absence of the
President and the Vice President Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen chairman pro
tem. Prayer by Caroline C. R. Wells,
minutes of previous meeting read, and roll
call responded to, with sentiments from
Meredith, Longfellow, Shakespeare, Arnold
and others.
	The names of Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Harriet Y. Badger and Della Y. Harrison
were presented and they were admitted to
membership. The evening program con-
sisted of the following:
	An original New Year’s Poem, entitled
“A Myth of Father Time,” by Mrs.
Dickinson. “Maud Muller” recited by
Nellie C. Taylor. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave
an interesting and graphic description of
her visit to the Poet Whittier’s old home at
Araesbury, also his more modern residence
at Oak Knoll. Told of his kindly reception
of her and the interesting conversation of 
nearly a half day, his views or opinions with
regard to the marriage question—etc. Mrs.
Wells then read the poem “Revel [---]
on which the poet was engaged at the time
of her visit, and which he read to her from
the proof-sheet. 
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine being called
upon, spoke a few words regarding what
had been said by Mrs. Palmer at the
World’s Fair, the good work which had
been accomplished by Woman’s Press
Clubs in reforming press matter generally.
	Mrs. Harrison requested an explanation
of the object of the club, and was answered
with the desired information by Mrs. E. B.
Wells who stated that we expect to join the
International Federation of Clubs. She
spoke of the advantage of belonging to the
Press Club, over those of belonging to
Literary Clubs, and related some amusing
incidents which occurred during the con-
vention of the Press Women at Washing-
ton in 1891.
	Mrs. Bennion, one of the Vice Presidents
at large, gave an interesting account of
how as a “Stow away,” she had enjoyed a
grand reception of the Press Club at the
World’s Fair, given to all the clubs of the
United States. The great treat it had been
even though but an on looker.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee favored the
club with a vocal selection, “The Captive
Knight,” and benediction, was pronounced.
	The program for the February meeting
as follows: “The Benefit to be derived
from Woman’s Clubs” Mrs. L. S. Dickinson
The Sixth Sense Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Music, Mrs. D. Y. Harrison. An article by
Ella W. Hyde. To write up her evening 
with the Press Club. Mrs. A. E. Bennion.
