EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE bills before the Legislature relating to
women on Boards of Education, Reform
Institutions and Insane asylums passed the
House of Representatives, but was killed in
the Council. No reasons given to the pub-
lic though we have been informed, there
was considerable discussion as to its
constitutionality on account of the word
male in the statutes.
	THE Silk Bill asking for a bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture in the Ter-
ritory has passed both houses, this is 
specifically a woman’s measure, and is for
the benefit and fostering of an industry
which is admirably adapted to the capacity
of women and children, a labor which may
be remunerative to the producer in her
own home; and successfully manipulated
in the reeling and manufacturing might be
remunerative to the Territory.
	THE debate on Woman Suffrage in the
Salt Lake Theatre on the evening of Feb.
18th, between Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and
Dr. Ellen C. Gage drew a crowded house.
Dr. Ferguson who took the affirmative of
the question acquitted herself most
creditably, her discourse being logical and
clear, her language excellent and her man-
ner dignified. Dr. Gage who had the
negative, took up the domestic and senti-
mental side of the question arguing in favor
of protection for women, and brought for-
ward all the pretty and telling pictures of
woman’s femininity, and yet withal we are
told she only made the position of her op-
ponent stronger instead of weakening it.
	THROUGH a suggestion in a letter from
the Beaver W. S. A. we have decided how
to get hold of the ideas of the women of
the W. S. A. throughout the Territory in
regard to a badge for the Utah W. S. A.
It is a subject we had given some thought
previous to receiving this letter, and now we
would ask officially all the Counties to send
in designs, one from each, and then at the
Convention in April when delegates from
different parts are present, a decision upon the
matter may be satisfactorily reached. Our
correspondent says. “It should not be too
dear, lest some poor women could not ob-
tain one, but should be in material, finish
and design of Utah production.” We
would suggest in addition to her suggestion
that silver and silk are both home products.
Let us hear from the woman suffragists on
this subject.

[Column 2]
	ON Tuesday Feb. 27th, a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth L. Hyde met
by invitation at the residence of Sister
Susannah Barrows in this City, the oc-
casion being to celebrate the 83rd anniversary
of Sister Hyde’s birthday; her birthday was
the 26th, but as some of her dear friends
were in the Temple on that day, she
postponed the party, that she might have
their company. President Joseph E.
Taylor and wife, Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Sister Jane Harrington (of American Fork)
Sisters Lydia Ann Wells, Lizzie Spencer,
Sarah Young, Bro. and Sister Hennefer and
several others were present and offered con-
gratulations and good wishes. Several
speeches were made all expressing a friendly
feeling for the aged sister, who though
more than fourscore is still in excellent con-
dition of body and mind. Sister Hyde has
had rather an eventful life which we hope
some day to publish a short sketch of; she
crossed the plains in the handcart company
and like Sister Woodmansee, the poetess, is
rather proud of it, as well she may be.
	THERE was a unique social gathering of
friends and relatives of President Wilford
Woodruff and his wife Sister Emma Wood-
ruff in the Salt Lake Temple on Monday,
February 26th, in honor of the 87th an-
niversary of the birth of the veteran
President, who today, March 1st, has
reached the 87th, year of his age, and on
the same day Sister Woodruff her 56th,
year. The occasion was a very happy one
for many reasons and the exercises consist-
ing of short speeches, music, poems and
the like were exceedingly interesting,
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph Smith
were a conspicuous feature. The entire af-
fair including the bountiful feast was a per-
fect success, and the sincere and fervent
congratulations tendered the beloved
President and his amiable wife in the recep-
tion at the close of the exercises, were
cordially and gracefully acknowledged in
the spirit love and blessing felt and ap-
preciated by all who were present. No
man in Israel we believe has been and is
more truly loved and esteemed by the
Latter-day Saints since the days of the
Prophet Joseph than the veteran Apostle,
seer and revelator, President Wilford
Woodruff. Further particulars of the party
will be given hereafter.


