	UTAH PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	THE Primary Association of Utah Stake
met in conference at Provo, on Thursday
February 22nd, 1894. An officers meet-
ing was held at ten o'clock, at which ver-
bal reports of the different Association were
given by the Ward Presidents. 
	Conference convened at 2 o'clock. The 
program was good and reflected great credit
upon the ladies who teach the children, as 
well as the diligence and capacity of the 
children themselves; the main feature of
the program was the following poem, com-
posed by Mrs. Sarah Goodman, and dictated 
to the memory of our beloved President, 
Sister Annie K. Smoot.
There’s a love that we owe to Annie K. S[---],.
For instructions and teachings to us here below, 
She has left us and gone to the realms upon high, 
She will follow her works with God in the sky. 
Oft times we enjoyed the sweet spirit of God
Then we met her in counsel in labors of love, 
She was noble in action and kind when she'd 
	speak,
She enjoyed God's spirit with the humble and 
	meek. 
Annie K. was a teacher of light
To the Primary children with memory bright, 
She loved and blest them and taught them the 
	truth
For a guide to their memory, while traveling in 
	youth. 
Oh Father in Heaven help us to endure
The loss of a sister, whom we almost adore, 
She was earnest in duty and now she is called
To the region of bliss with the Saints of the Lord
May God bless her counsel who stood by her side
In transaction of duty with God for their guide, 
And the many sweet hours of intelligent work
They humbly gave to the children on earth. 
Farewell dear departed thou hast taken thy flight
To dwell with the righteous in the Mansion of 
	light, 
We ask thy kind visits to enlighten our minds
That we may prove faithful to the end of our time.


The recent death of Mrs. Annie K. 
Smoot vacated all the county officers. Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton was elected president,
with Mrs. Eliza Taylor first counselor
(which place she occupied formerly) and
Mrs. A. B. Selk as second counselor, Miss
Ida L. Cheever as secretary, and Mrs. Mat-
tie Nelson as treasurer, these ladies were
set apart by Bros. John and Partridge of the
Stake Presidency.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the re-
tiring ladies, and President John spoke very
kindly of their good work in the Primary
Associations.
	Sister Sarah E. Cluff, who formerly acted
as second counselor, felt that the many
trials through which she had passed in the
last year, rendered it necessary for a time.
Felt to sustain the new officers with all her
heart. Mrs. Cluff’s labors have been highly
appreciated, and the blessings of the As-
sociation attend her in her retirement.
	Many kind and encouraging things were
said and conference adjourned for six
months.
	IDA CHEEVERS, Stake Sec.


