OBITUARIES.

	DIED Jan. 9th, 1894 at Levan, Juab Co., Esther
Gardner, wife of George Gardner, in her 60th
year, after a lingering illness of counsumption for
many years.
	She leaves a husband, three children, (boy and
two girls,) and hosts of friends to mourn her de-
parture.
	Sister Gardner has worked very faithfully in
different departments of this Church. She took
an active part in the Relief Society, when it was
first organized, and acted as a teacher in the
Sabbath School for over twenty years.
	When the Primary Association was first
organized, she was set apart as president, and
from that time until she died, she has remained in
that position, laboring very diligently for the
benefit of the children, and attending to her
duties with steady application, as long as her
health would permit.
	She had succeeded, by her kind and winning
way, to gain the love and respect of all the
children and died as she had always lived, honest
and faithful to the gospel. The remains were
taken to the meeting House, and the funeral
took place Jan. 12th, and was conducted by
Bishop N. P. Rasmussen; John Ollerton, James
Wilson, J. W. Shepherd and Tunbridge made
very appropriate remarks. The choir was also
in attendance, and a song was sung by the
Primary children. The remains were followed to
the cemetery by her family, relatives and many
friends.
	Dearest Esther sweetly sleeping,
		In the tomb she's laid to rest,
	But her spirit watch is keeping,
		For she dwells among the blest,

[column 2]
	Though her body now is resting,
		Free from weary pain and care,
	She rejoices in bright mansions;
		With the just and righteous there.

	Then cheer up and cease your weeping,
		She has reached that "happy shore,"
	Where no grief and sickness enter
		And there's rest forevermore.

			DINAH OLLERTON,	Counselors.
			ANNIE RASMUSSEN,
Levan Primary Association,
			MOLLIE MANGLESON, Secretary.

	AGAIN, Death with its relentless hand has
visited our society and taken from our midst our
lamented sister, Maria D. Chambers, who for
several years prior to her death, held the position
of first counselor to President Marianna Strat-
ford, in the fourth Ward Relief Society, Ogden.
She died Jan. 2nd, 1894, aged fifty nine years, two
months and fifteen days. It is only two short
months since we laid to rest our second counselor
so that we the more keenly feel this, our second
bereavement.
	Deceased was a native of Manchester, England,
but soon after her marriage, she with her hus- 
band, left their native land, to gather with the
saints of God. They crossed the plains by ox
team and endured all the hardships incident to
such journeyings, arriving in Salt Lake City, Oct.
1853.
	In 1869 they settled in Ogden and have ever
since made this city their home. She joined the
Fourth Ward Relief Society at its organization,
which took place Jan. 17th, 1879, and was at that
time called to be a teacher, a position which she
faithfully filled until May 8th, 1883, when she was
called to the office of second counselor; here
again she labored with diligence until June 27th,
1888, at which time she was chosen first counselor
which position she also honorably and faithfully
filled until our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom called her hence, to a more exalted
place.
	She was a noble woman and greatly endeared
to all who were acquainted with her, but it was
in her own home that her life shone out with all
the glory of true motherhood, and her death has
left an aching void that can never be filled.
	Our society has lost a wise counselor, a firm
advocate and a true friend, yet we know that our
loss is her eternal gain, and we therefore bow in
humble submission to the will of our Heavenly
Father, praying that the comforting influence of
His holy spirit may rest down upon the bereaved
family, and that they may ere long be able to see
the "silver lining" to the cloud that now hangs so 
heavily over them.

