WOMAN.

	IN Olive Schreiner’s Book of Dreams, we
find the following: I stood looking over a
vast plane: a personage stood by my side;
in the distance I saw Man standing erect,
looking wistfully into the future; at his
feet lay what appeared a beast of burden,
indescribable,except that it was covered with
the accumulated dust of ages.
	I turned to my guide for instruction:
He said what you term a beast of burden
is Woman. “Why does she not rise?”
“She cannot.”
	Then I observed that she was bound with
chains, and that the chains extended to the
feet of the man: of this he seemed un-
conscions.
	Then by some unseen power her fetters
were broken, and in her large expressive
eyes I read the wish to be free—still she
remained motionless, weighted down by her

[Column 2]
many burdens. I said “Why does not
Man help her?” He answered, “He can-
not, she must help herself.” Then with a
mighty effort, quivering in every nerve, she
raised her head but soon sank again
exhausted.
	Such has been the history of Woman in
the past. She has been either bound by
the chains of slavery, or if endowed with
that fatal gift—beauty, she was used as a
toy, plaything, to be cast aside at the
pleasure of Man: the fetters may have been
of gold, but they were none the less
effectual.
	But a change has come: in this Nine-
teenth Century have the shackles, that so
long bound Woman in helplessness been
broken. Now it rests with her whether she
will rise to her full stature, and stand side
by side with Man, thus proving herself the
help-meet the Supreme Being designed she
should be. Nor can humanity make any
further progress until women are able to fill
this position.
	In the year 1848 the first Woman’s Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, presiding.
Woman’s Rights, or rather her wrongs
were discussed. From that day to the
present, the emancipation of woman has
met with a vast amount of opposition the
opposition, though less strong to day, still
continues. Yet in the last 45 years a great
work has been accomplished. Wonderful
changes have taken place. Educational
institutions have opened their doors.
In many avenues of employment work can
now be found. The right to hold property
is unquestioned. Colorado and Wyoming
have granted full suffrage, to Woman.
Some other States have partially conferred
this right. All this has been accomplished
through the indefatigable efforts of Mrs.
Stanton and her heroic co-laborers. But
much remains undone, and there is need of
many earnest workers.
in the World’s Parliament of Religions,
recently held in Chicago, representatives
from every civilized nation, attended the
Woman’s Congress, thus giving evidence
of the complete organizations and the deep
interest felt in this most important move-
ment.
	Of those attending, perhaps none acquit-
ted themselves with greater credit than did
the Women of Utah. There, by principles
advanced, their audience was held spell-
bound, and so much interested did they be-
come that many sought further information
through private interviews.
	It is well known that in some respects,
the rights of Woman have been more gen-
erously conceded in our fair Territory than
in any other part of the Union, probably
of the world, and for that reason as well as
others that might be given, we should be
alive to every call that may improve our
political status and qualify us to be repre-
sentative women of America. E. S.
Provo.


