WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

[Written for the Davis Co. Convention.]

	The Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, like all other associations, has its ob-
ject in view which is the enfranchisement
of all women. Women are the mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters of men, and
speaking of them universally their minds
are equally as strong and perceptible. We
are all the children of Adam and Eve, and
in the second chapter of Genesis we are
told that God said it is not good that man
should be alone and so created woman for a
helpmeet for him, now do you think he
would have created an inferior being for a
helpmeet or companion for man, who had
been created in the image of God, and
where is the man that today would marry a
wife he thought inferior to himself. This
would be degrading to the human race, for
were this the case man would be superior
to his own offspring. The idea that it is
not necessary for girls to be educated is
gradually dying.
	The mother who tutors and brings up
her children to love freedom, to walk in the
paths of morality, should be an educated
woman here comes in equality in education
and we believe in equality before the law.
The nation has at present its fathers but no
mothers. Wherever women have had the
ballot they have used it in the interests of
home and against the saloons, the gambling
houses,and the haunts of infamy. All who
assist in bearing the burdens of the govern-
ment, should share in its privileges and in
the progress of civilization, we expect to
see this come along justice is equality and
equality is justice. It is a principle of our
government that taxation must not be with-
out representation. If women holding
property are to be taxed it follows that wo-
men should be represented by their votes.
Those who are ruled by law should have
the power to say what shall be the
law and who the law-makers. Women are
as much interested in legislation as men and
are entitled to representation.
	One principal cause of the failure of so


many magnificent schemes, social, political
and religious is claimed to be because the
rights and powers of one half the human
race (namely that of the women) have been
ignored.
	Everything to work properly must be
equally balanced. One scarcely need glance
into politics to be assured of the corruption
thereof. Then ask Wyoming about woman
Suffrage. Wherever woman is permitted
to go her influence is felt for refinement, and
today Wyoming stands as an example for
all the States and Territories.
