[COLUMN 2]
China, a concession never before made by
the Chinese to any nation.
	President Johnson’s administration ended
on the 4th of March, 1869, and Ulysses S.
Grant was inaugurated the eighteenth
president of the United States. Shortly
after that event, Mr. Julian of Indiana,
proposed an important amendment to the
national Constitution, in the following form:
“The right of citizens of the United States
shall be based on citizenship, and shall be
regulated by Congress; and all citizens of
the United States, whether native or
naturalized, shall enjoy this right equally,
without any distinction or discrimination
whatever founded on sex.”
	A very important event occurred during
the year 1869, namely, the uniting of the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans by railroad
connection, the ceremony of laying the last
tie and driving the last spike occuring on
the 10th of May, 1869, near the head of the
Great Salt Lake.
	In 1871, seven thousand six hundred and
seventy miles of railroad was laid and put in
successful operation in the United States.
In this year also the great Chicago fire oc-
cured, “In the extent of district burned
this fire stands first, property destroyed
second, and in the suffering occasioned
third, in the conflagrations of the world."
	In 1872, a court was held by the Board of
Arbitration appointed by the United States
and Great Britain and composed of leading .
men from both Europe and America, to
consider the claim of the United States
against Great Britain for damages from
British vessels on the coast during the civil
war. It was decided that Great Britain
should pay to the United States
$15,500,000.00. At that time the national
debt had been considerably lessened, the
products of the United States had greatly
increased, and American manufactures were
competing with England in the markets of
the world. The population had gradually
moved westward until Ohio became the
centre.
	In 1872, Grant was re-elected President,
with Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts,
as Vice-President.
	In 1876, the Territory of Colorado was
admitted as a State. As early as 1866
Prof. John L. Campbell of Wabash Col-
lege, proposed an appropriate centennial
celebration, which subject was also discussed
by other leading men, but nothing definite
was accomplished toward that object until
the spring of 1871, when the House of
Representatives passed a bill providing that
an exhibition of American and foreign arts,
products and manufactures should be held
under the auspices of the government in
the city of Philadelphia in 1876. Time
will not admit of our entering into the de-
tails of the financial difficulties incurred,
but one item must be mentioned, and that
is that Congress positively refused twice to
appropriate one cent for the Centennial
Exposition, but states, cities, schools, and
individuals entered into the spirit of the
exhibition, and after the President had ex-
tended a cordial invitation to foreign
nations to participate in an international
exhibition, and some of them contributed
thousands of dollars therefor, Congress also
became enthused with the subject, and voted
the appropriation of $505,000 for the
erection of a building in honor of the
United States, etc., and finally a further ap-
propriation of $1,500,000 was made to
make up the amount required for the success
of the Exposition, which was estimated to


be about $9,000,000. Fairmount Park, one
of the largest and most magnificent in the 
world, was offered to the commission for the
exhibition by the city of Philadelphia, and
on the 10th of May, 1876, the Centennial
Exposition was formally opened.
	The Indian question has occupied much
of the time, attention and means of the
nation since its first settlement by the white
people, brought about in the majority of
cases by their avarice and injustice. In 1864
there was a war with the Cheyennes; in 1873
the Modoc War occurred; in 1876 the
memorable war with the Sioux Indians
took place, when General Custer and nearly
all of his command were slain by Sitting
Bull and his followers, and in 1877 a war
occurred between Nez Perces Indians and
the United States. Of course the latter
army being so much more powerful were
conquerors, and the savages were driven
from their legal property and made more
savage in feelings than before. Trouble be-
gan to arise between employers and employ-
ees a strike of railroad employees commenced
in June, 1877, on the Baltimore and Ohio
railroad and soon spread to most of the roads
in the northern States, interrupting traffic
for several years.
	In 1876 the Presidential election took
place, and both the Republicans and
Democrats claimed the victory, some of the
voting having been done in an irregular and
unsatisfactory manner.  Of course the
decision rested with Congress, and after
long and earnest debating it was agreed to
refer the matter to a joint high commission
composed of five members from the Senate,
five from the House and five from the Su-
preme Court, and not 'till the second of
March, 1877, was the election finally decided
in favor of the Republican candidate,
Rutherford B. Hayes, President, and William
A. Wheeler, Vice President. One of the 
most important events in President Hayes'
administration was the Civil Service Reform
law, one essential feature being that no
government officer should be allowed to take
part in any political campaign.


