EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE silk bill asking for the bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture which 
passed both Houses of the recent Legisla-
ture was vetoed by the Governor, for
reasons he considered sufficiently important
to justify, among which were the financial
condition of the Territory which precluded
further taxation and the Democrat principle
of equality for all, special privileges for
none, also the many industries asking for
bounties etc.
	THE Library bill which passed was also
vetoed and although a Committee of ladies
called upon the Governor requesting him to
reconsider the veto, he defended his position
and positively declined to do anything.
	SOME other bills containing objectional
measures to women interested in public 
matters to which suffrage women had ob-
jected were either killed or so far modified as
to need no further protest.
	The memorial presented by the Hon.
John E. Booth of Provo asking that the
franchise be restored to the women of Utah
was approved by the Legislature in both
Houses and signed by the Governor. The
Memorial signed by prominent women of
the Territory asking that the Woman's 
Industrial Home in this City be given for a
Woman’s Hospital, was appended to a
memorial from the Legislature to the Con-
gress of the United States and that also re-
ceived the Governor’s signature.
	WE regret exceedingly that the union of
colleges was not effected and that the 
University received so small an apprpria-
tion, but hope something may yet be done
to save that institution which has been so
useful and beneficial in times past, and for
which such great exertions have been made;
surely the people will be loyal to themselves
in this matter and not allow it to go back-
ward in this age of progress. Whatever
may be said of the old residents of Utah, it
cannot be truthfully said they have not
made great exertions to promote the higher
education of the young people. The
University has always maintained a
standard of which the people might well be 
proud notwithstanding the circumstances of 
colonizing in a new country.
	THE National Press Association of 
Washington D. C. are about to make a tour
to the Midwinter Fair and have invited the 
writer to extend the invitation
to some of her friends; they will stop over
here return a short time on their return
from the Coast, when the intention is to give
them a hearty welcome and some sort of 
suitable demonstration.
	A business session of the Utah W. S.
A. will be held at eleven A. M. on Wedsns-
day April the 4th, in the office of the Wo-
man's Exponent, Room 228 Constitution
Building, Main St.,Territorial Officers, Hon-
orary Vice Presidents and all officers and 
delegates from the Auxiliary Associations
are urgently requested to attend. There
will be a meeting of the Utah W. S. A. 
held on Wednesday afternoon, April 4th,
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, com-
mencing at 3 p. m., when it is confidently 
hoped there will be a good attendance of
officers and members from the outside
counties, some prominent people have been 
invited to speak, and the meeting will
doubtless be an interesting one.
	THE National Woman's Relief Society
will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday
April 5, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at
eleven A. M. for the transaction of such
business as may come before the Board of 
Directors.
	Zina D. H. Young, President.
	E. B. Wells, Secretary.


