IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret we record the death of a
beloved sister, Esther Catherine Park Lusk,
daughter of John and Matilda Park; she was born
June 12th, 1838, Gibson Co, Tennessee, died
October 29th, 1893. Losing her father in
Tennessee she moved with her mother to Illinois
and from there to Council Bluffs. In the summer
of 1867 she came to Utah with her mother; she
was baptized in her childhood.
March 5th, 1854 was married to John Winters
Lusk, making their home for a short time in
Pleasant Grove, Utah Co., moved from there to
Wellsville, Cache Co. where they resided five years.


In 1866 she removed  with her husband and
family, to Malad City, Malad Valley, where she
resided at the time of her demise, she was the
mother of eight children, seven of whom are liv-
ing, and grandmother to thirty-seven, twenty-nine
of whom are still living.
	When the Relief Society was first organized in
Malad City, in 1873 she was chosen for second
Counselor to the President, when a change was
made in the President five years after she was
again chosen second Counselor which office she
held at the time of her demise making her term
of office twenty years, she was also a subscriber
to the Exponent. She was a wise Counselor,
faithful in her office, her heart ever open to com-
fort, bless and encourage the poor and sorrow-
stricken. Her death has made a great vacancy
in our midst, we miss her in our meetings for
added to her many virtues punctuality was fore-
most.
	She has left a character of sterling integrity,
having been a faithful wife, loving mother, and a
bright example to all around her she passed away 
surrounded by her husband and family, she
was so well known and respected, that it seemed
the whole valley mourned with the bereaved
family, by the procession that followed her re-
mains to their last resting place.
Faithful in life and true unto death,
	She has left this dark valley of care
To join with the righteous who sing the new song
	Of the saved and the sanctified there.
	ANN SAWYER, President. 
	ELIZABETH JENKINS, Sec.
Malad City, Dec. 26, 1893.


