A GENUINE SURPRISE.

	One of the most pleasant evenings of the
season was spent at the residence of Apostle
Franklin D. Richards January 21st, 1894,
it being the 71st Anniversary of the birth
of the Apostle’s beloved wife and our
esteemed friend, President Jane S. Richards.
At 7:30 p. m. their spacious rooms were
crowded with smiling faces, each one being
anxious to extend congratulations and heart-
felt wishes for many happy returns of the
day. Among the happy throng laden with
choice sentiments of pleasant greetings were
noticed President L. W. Shurtliff and wife,
Counselor N. C. Flygare, Bishop Robert
McQuarrie and wife, Bishop Stratford,
Bishop Wallace, Hon. D. H. Peery and
wife, Judge Farr and wife, Lawyer Rolapp
and wife Prof. Moench and wife, Elder E.
H. Nye and wife, Sisters Cannon, Herrick,
Woodmansee, Littlefield, Critchlow, James,
Canfield, and a host of others too numerous
to mention, besides a number of relatives,
including her only sister Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, and niece Mrs. Lovisa Roundy.
	The amiable lady was taken by storm;
shaken and embraced without consent. No
mercy was shown, every one seeming to
think they had a perfect right to a birthday
kiss and a shake of the dear hand, as they
whispered a sentiment suitable for the oc-
casion.
	This time at least Sister Richards was
truly surprised and disconcerted, though
she soon regained her composure and pro-
ceeded in her usual courteous manner to
welcome the invaders, and make every one
feel at ease, a characteristic of hers to
which she is admirably adapted.
	Bishop McQuarrie then took charge of
the proceedings, and the company sang,
“Now let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer was

[column 2]
offered by Elder L. F. Moench.  Sister
Stevens and others sang, ‘‘I know that my
Redeemer lives. ”
	Bishop McQuarrie said he truly ap-
preciated Sister Richards in the Ward over
which he presided: had never known any
one who possessed so much energy and
determination, with so much genius in
searching out the poor and distressed, and
so much skill and ability in supplying their
wants as Sister Richards had exhibited in
her labor of love in the ward; and now, he
was happy to state, her refining influence
was felt throughout the city, county, Ter-
ritory and beyond its borders.  His good
wishes and prayers were many, and beauti-
fully expressed.
	President L. W. Shurtliff said he had al-
ways admired Sister Richard's tact in bat-
tling with difficulties, nobly surmounting
them, and overcoming evil with good, had
not language to express his deep regard for
her, endorsed all that had been said, and
prayed for her to live and do good as long
as she desired to do so.
	Hon. D. H. Perry said Sister Richards
had shown more love and charity in her
labors than any one he had ever known.
Those who knew her best loved her most;
the zeal with which she had labored was 
worthy of praise  Her exemplary family
were filling, honorably, responsible possi-
tions which was due to her. instruction
and are a credit to her.
	Sisters Emily Shurtliff and R. E. Monch
also expressed their high regard and due
appreciation for Sister Richards, gave her
great credit for her untiring efforts in
charitable purposes, and prayed that she
might have health and strength to continue
to her heart’s satisfaction.
	Brother and Sister Richards each ex-
pressed their gratitude to their friends for
their kindly wishes extended, and their
presence a token of regard which was truly
appreciated,—after which Bishop McQuarrie
announced a change in the program, which
proved to be a delicious repast prepared by
the sons and daughters of the Apostle and
his noble lady. It was a pleasing feature
of the occasion to witness the tender regard
shown by the sons and daughters for their
parents. Hon. F. S. Richards and wife,
Josephine Richards West and Mrs. L. M.
Richards each deserve praise for the excel-
lent refreshments which they served with
becoming grace and courtesy which betoken-
ed the culture of a model home.
	After refreshments were served Apostle
Richards spoke very interestingly of their
early experience in Ogden. Through long
acquaintance and association with the good
people of Weber County the ties of friend-
ship had grown stronger, and he said,
“Knowing you more we will serve you
better.” He also stated that the same
high regard expressed for Sister Richards
in a public capacity he had always enter-
tained for her in the social relation at home.
During fifty one years of married life they
had passed through many trials and priva-
tions which Sister Richards had borne with
patience and fortitude. She had ever been
very unselfish, seeking the comfort and
happiness of others rather than her own.
They had not celebrated their silver and
golden weddings, but thanked God for their
union, and loved each other better as the
veil grew thinner between them and the
Eternal worlds.
	Sister Richards made a few appropriate
remarks, and the closing prayer was offered
by Bishop Stratford.

[column 3]
	After pleasant adieux the crowd dispersed
well satisfied with the evening’s enjoy-
ment. 

