Zina D. H. Young. Opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister
Katie Knowlton. Continued by singing
"'Til the Resurrection Day.” President
Zina Y. Card then stated that this was her
mother’s birthday, and wished the sisters
to celebrate it by rejoicing in a testimony 
meeting; she knew the spirit her mother
had in the Temple would be in our midst.
Sister Hannah Anderson, said she was
pleased to meet with the Y. L. and she 
loved to speak of Aunt Zina Young. For 
she was a good noble woman, and had done
more good in the kingdom of God, than 
any of us can do.
	Annie Archibald and Minnie Smith each
bore a faithful testimony to the truthfulness
of this great work. Each felt that they 
had been highly edified since they had com-
menced to attend the Y. L. M. I. A. Min-
nie May and Lucinda Woolf felt pleased
to embrace the opportunity of bearing their
testimony. Felt we were blessed in having
Aunt Zina Young coming to visit us once
in a while; and would be glad if she 
could come again and be with us all the
time and mingle her sweet voice with the
rest of us; asked God to bless her and all
the sisters. Sister Katie Knowlton said
she was thankful to be able to attend her
Young Ladies meeting and bear her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the gospel. 
Asked God to bless Sister Young that she
might live long upon the earth to continue
her good works. 
	Counselor Elnora Wight spoke of the bless-
ing that Aunt Zina had given her long ago, 
said it had been a great comfort to her, and 
that she always felt a tender feeling for her, 
thought her face was always full of sweet-


ness. Asked God to prolong her days that
she might be able to come and see us again
here in Canada.
	Elizabeth Rollin, Effie Stoddard, Martha
Brown, Nellie Lieshman, Rhoda Hinman,
Lola Stoddard, Dora Hinman, Mary Ann
Parrott and Martha Baker each said they
were thankful of having the privilege of
bearing their testimony. Asked God to
bless our noble sister. Each wished her
“Many Happy Returns.’’ Knew she was a
noble good woman, and deserved much
praise.
	President Zina Card then gave a brief,
sketch of her mother’s life; said she knew
the spirit of the Lord would be with her,
and she knew that she would know we
were speaking of her goodness. Asked the
Lord to prolong her days. Said it was a
great comfort to her to know and to hear
the sisters bear their testimony in regard to
her coming to visit us again; she wanted to
spend all the time she could with her dear
mother. Closing prayer by President Zina
Card.
	P. S.—Dear Aunt Zina: I could not be
present at the time of this meeting on ac-
count of sickness. But I feel to add my
blessing with the rest of my dear sisters.
May God the giver of all we enjoy bless you
and prolong your days.
	May peace be your happy lot, dear sister.
That you may never want, but always have
plenty. Ma sends love; so also does Sarah.
All are enjoying pretty good health.
	Yours Lovingly,
		Nellie Hinman, Sec.


