	TRUE art is creation and that which sug-
gests the Creator's work in its perfection has
a nearness to Heaven in its enjoyment.
	It was said by Michael Angelo that "the
true mission of art was to raise the soul
from earth to Heaven." Surely these 
words were exemplified at the World's 
Columbian Exposition of 1893. Never was
fairer picture presented to wondering gaze,
than that of the White City in its complete-
ness.
	I remember as a young girl, having a
very vivid dream; pictured in the Western
sky, above the blossoming orchard of my
childhood's home, was what I concieved to
be the New Jerusalem. The buildings
seemed to be constructed of marble, of that
soft tone of white, called ivory; and each
tower and cornice and pinnacle, were edged
with gold, as though a setting sun, which
seemed to flood the air as with a golden
mist, had touched them with its Midas
finger. The city sat upon the shores of a 
shimmering blue sea, and the streets were
mostly water-ways of "Pure gold, like un-
to clear glass." I recall to mind how on
awakening in the morning I ran eagerly to
the door and shading my eyes with my
hands, gazed out above the blossoms of
peach and apple trees, to the bright blue
sky, seeking in vain for a trace of the
night's beauteous vision. Never could I
forget the glory of those classic columns and
slender, graceful pinnacles, and often have
I wished for the art which could transfer to
canvass a faint idea of its most wondrous
loveliness. One day last Summer from the
upper deck of the steamer "Whaleback"
that beauteous vision burst again upon my
enraptured gaze. There were the white
walls of my templed city; there the shim-
mering sea turned all to blue and gold by
the lingering rays of the "God of Day,"
who lovingly touched each tower and top,
that art had left ungilded: There the broad
streets and water-ways the glorious groups
of statuary—the classic pillars and flowery
tracery of gothic windows—the feathery
palms, the gushing fountains, the fragrance
of rarest blossoms, the city in its beauty and
completeness; and the blue waters girdling
and intersecting it: my dream at last a
glorious reality! And I a favored one, to
wander mid its beauties and wonders. In-
voluntarily I loosened the lace about my 
throat, for my emotions gave me a feeling
of rapture almost to suffocation, flooding
my soul with joy unspeakable. Many
times I saw the White City from other
vantage ground, but never again with those
sensations: From all other points of view,
while it was beautiful, it did not give me
the same exquisite picture, which was a 
memory realized.
	I am leading up to my subject slowly,
even as I traversed with lingering feet the
way, to where already I saw the beautiful
"Martiny" statue of "Fame," crowning 
the central dome of that magnificent

[Column 2]
Palace of Art. The figure is airy, beauti-
ful; and seems almost to take wing: The
drapery, wind-blown closely to the figure,
accentuating its exquisite contours. A 
noble flight of steps flanked by sculptured
lions leads you to the portal, overshadowed
by graceful porticos, supported on
Corinthian columns. As  I entered the
main hall or rotunda, a scene of bewilder-
ing beauty, of graceful and noble art, in
bronze and marble, met my gaze; and
starting tears obscured for a moment the
scene. I seemed unable to regain myself;
I was in an enchanted world: The people
who thronged the hall were as nothing. I 
stood as if alone amid moving mass.
Through door-ways I caught glimpses of
wondrous tints and dreams of color from
almost breathing canvases.
	But almost the first work that caught by
eyes and there they lingered oft and lov-
ingly, was the bronze group of "Dickens
and Little Nell." It was a noble poem in
bronze, easily read by those who are
familiar with the works of the wondrous
writer, who created the characters of
"Nell" and "Florence Dombey," "Little
Joe" and the host of others. Standing at
Dickens knee, Nell looks lovingly up to
the master as though saying again, "God
bless him, God bless us both."
	I think I first admire the beauty and
per[---]t proportions of an object th[-]n the
power exemplified in the mental and
physical training required to bring it to so
perfect a state of excellence; yet I do not
pretend to know its excellence, only the 
artist whose many trials have wrought its
perfectness, can know that. I can only
judge of that excellence by the faithfulness
of its resemblance and the story written in
its lines and contours.
	How can one look upon the marvelous
beauty of the famous "Dore" vase, with-
out a feeling of awe, for the physical and
mental power employed to bring such per-
fection of form and beauty into shape,
where-with to delight your sense of the
beautiful. The bewildering myriad of
flowers and forms, all bearing to the one
object, the decoration and embellishment of
the original classic shape, and the beautiful
thought underlying the whole. Six months
were required to model it in clay, how many
to design it I know not; but surely it is a 
"thing of beauty," and let us hope it will
"be a joy forever." The "Dore" vase is
not, however, in the Art Palace but in the
French Department of the Liberal Arts
Building, where I also found Susse Freres,
"Defence Of The Flag," an intensely ef-
fective group in bronze; soldiers surround-
ing the colors; fourteen figures and one
cannon, and fallen horse, grouped naturally
and artistically with fine effect of power, 
and the heroic purpose, to die rather than
relinquish their flag.
	Thomas Ball's bronze statuette of "Paul
Revere" is one of the gems in the rotunda
of the Art Palace. The artist has caught
the very motion of the horse, and the horse 
seems to have caught the inspiration of the
man upon his back, who glows and radiates


