S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held Feb. 20th,
at the residence of Mrs. McCune 270 W.
South Temple, 1st, Vice President Eardley
in the chair. Sang "Raise the Flag."
Prayer by M. W. Wilcox. Sang "Awake
oh ye daughters." Roll call, minutes read
and accepted. Paper read by Mary A.
Freeze entitled "A Jubilee Poem," second
Vice President E. M. Price gave a very
eloquent lecture on Statesmanship, showing
Queen Elizabeth of England to have been
possessed of rare ability in the line, though
only a woman. Mrs. E. J. Lyon sang
"Hard Times." Reading, Josiah Allen's
Allegory on Woman's Rights, by M. E.
Bassett. Territorial President E. B. Wells
made a brief speech especially commended
the lecture given by Mrs. Price, and men-
tioned topics suitable for the meetings
recommended speaking without papers as
good practice.
	Ter. Vice President Mrs. Richards was
gratified to hear Mrs. Price's lecture; also to
notice that she gave it without notes, spoke
of a club to which she belonged where the
use of manuscript was prohibited. Refered
to the debate of Sunday evening on wo-
man suffrage. Thought Dr. Ferguson a
very able advocate heard many say that
they were well pleased with her arguments.
Felt when she (Mrs. Richards) received the
invitation, to speak before the Democrat
Club that it was interested in the subject, had
been told by Legislators, that if Utah were
a State, women should have the suffrage.
Ter. Prest. E. B. Wells thought our great-
est opposition would come from women
themselves. Thought we should have to
work hard to convert them.
	Dr. Ferguson said she would rather talk
to those who oppose, would like to over-
come their prejudices, we ought to try to
get them to our meetings, something might
be said that would help to allay their op-
position.
	Dr. Mattie H. Cannon, said she was in-
terested in our cause, came to hear about

[Column 2]
the bills now before the house looked for-
ward to the time when she could vote.
Had paid ten dollars to become an Ameri-
can citizen and voted twice, thought these
rather dear votes.
	Ter. President E. B. Wells explained in
reference to the bills in the legislature one
was dead and the other changed satis-
factorily.
	The chairman then called for speeches,
C. C. R. Wells made a motion that Dr.
Ferguson receive a vote of thanks for the 
part she took in the debate. The chairman
thought all suffragists heartily thanked her.
A few other suggestions were made and the
meeting adjourned 'till the 3rd Tuesday in
March.
