at the Exposition. She may well be con-
gratulated at the disposition made of her
pieces.
	The “Viking Brotherhood Cup” which
she modelled from native clays goes to Nor- 
way, the property of Captain Anderson of
the Viking Ship. This is a most unique,
and interesting piece and is like those used
by the old Vikings a thousand years ago
It is tall and delicate in form with a mouth
suggesting the beak of a vessel and the
foot pinched at the back into the form of a
rudder. The handle is a coiled snake,
emblem of eternity. About the top is a
band incised in the old Norse ruins with the
names of gods and heroes. Lower runs
the legend,

	“Slaves cannot drink from me,
		If once their lips receive my wine,
	That moment they are free!
		They drink gods bounty,
		And their shackles fall!”

	On the obverse side are the dates of the
old Norse discoveries—893and—1893!
	It was the old custom before commencing
any great undertaking to have a banquet
and pass the cup from lip to lip, like a
sacramental cup then in consecration to
break it.
	The cup was used by Captain Anderson
and his crew at the great Norse banquet
and will return with him a treasured
souvenir of his warm welcome to Norway.
	The great wine bowl which Mrs.
Frackleton made for the Caravel is already
on its way to Spain and will be placed in
the National Military Museum at Madrid in
company with the old Columbian relics.
It is an immense bowl with great bunches
of grapes and garlands of vine and is sup-
ported upon a standard with three feet.
On it is inscribed the names of the three
vessels of the little fleet. The Nina, Pinta
and Santa Maria also the dates 1492 and
1893.
	One piece remains in America and has
been purchased by the Pennsylvania
Museum of fine arts for their magnificent
collection, these pieces are all of the New
Frackleton Salt Glaze which has created


such a furore and has been heartily endorsed
by the “Associated Artists” of New York
City.
	The beautiful Punch bowl known as the
“Tiffany bowl” has been purchased by a
Russian noble for $500.00 and goes to St.
Petersburg, Russia.
	It is delightful to experience a feeling of
reciprocity and we hail the dawn of that
era in art when American women decorate
for the nobility of Europe—after the many
years that Europeans have decorated their
wares for America.


