MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
WEDNESDAY January 31st was the an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
a mother in Israel and one of the most dis-
tinguished women of the age. Sister
Young whose maiden name was Hunting-
ton was born in Watertown, Jefferson Co.,
State of New York Jan. 31st, 1821, and is
therefore seventy three years old. She has
been connected with the Church since she 
was a very young girl and has participated
in the most notable events. Her life has
been full of thrilling incidents from the 
time when she went with her father and 
mother to Missouri. 
	On the day mentioned above a work was
performed for about two hundred of her 
dead relatives in the Logan and Salt Lake
Temples, which was more gratifying to 
Sister Young than any rich or costly present
that could have been given her for her use
or adornment.
	At 3 p. m. her daughters Mrs. Maria Y. 

[Column 2]
Dougall and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie gave
her a party at the residence of Mrs.
Dougall on West Temple, where about 
seventy-five of her dear friends gathered by
invitation in honor of this celebrated wo-
man’s birthday. The large and elegant
parlors were bright and attractively decor-
ated for the occasion, and several bouquets
and vases of flowers were sent in by near
relatives and intimate friends which added
much to the pleasure of the guests. Other
suitable presents were given among them 
one or two books. There were some fine
musical selections but the time was mostly 
given to social enjoyment conversation and friendly greeting. 
	Refreshments were handsomely served 
and of the most delicious quality, and the 
guests did full justice to the feast which
had been so lovingly prepared. Among 
the distinguished people who were present
were President Lorenzo Snow, and wife
Sisters Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Can-
non and Sarah M. Kimball and B. W. 
Smith, Patriarch Joseph Horne and wife,
Hon. W. W. Riter and wife, Hon. James
Sharp and wife, Hon. Hugh Dougall and
wife, Sisters Emily D. P. Young, Priscilla
M. Staines and many other brethren and
sisters.
	The party was very enjoyable and was
another testimonial of the high esteem in 
which Sister Young is held by the people 
among whom her lot has been cast these
many years. The following letter is from
Canada and shows how the sisters there
celebrated the memorable anniversary day.

CARDSTON, January 31st, 1894.
	The Y. L.M.I.A. met as usual at the resi-
dence of President Zina Y. Card's, in honor of 
our much loved and highly esteemed sister
