	EXPOSITION.
	Concluded.
	Among the pictures in the French de-
partment I found Jean Beraud’s “Descent
From the Cross” a curiosity to me until I
learned it belonged to the “Impressionists”
school, Beraud being one of the masters of
that glaring novelty of Art, “Im-
pressionism.” The pictured Christ is truly
the study of a dead body; glassy eyes and
sunken jaws, horrible in its realism: There
are tiled roofs on the houses of the compara-
tively modern city in the background, and
the men and women about the cross repre-
senting the family and friends of the Savior,
are dressed like common people of the
French class of to day. It reminded me
more of a group of resurrectionists, with
some curious women looking on, than a
picture of the sorrowful group we are wont
to think of as tenderly taking from the
cross the body of our Lord. It is just pos-
sible that the faces of the apostles and wo-
men in this picture are portraits—as in the
picture of “Christ at the Pharisee’s Table,”
by the same artist, exhibited in 1891, and
which it is said all Paris flocked to see,
where the Christ is surrounded by well
known personages of our day, in modern
dress, and that herein lies the true merits of
the “Descent From The Cross.” But it
strikes me that Impressionism is going be-
yond its original motto “Down with con-
vention and idea of first fugitive impres-
sion of things.” My first fugitive im-
pression of the “Descent From the Cross,”
was that it was neither historical, graceful
in grouping, or tender in sentiment, and far
from inspiring a religious feeling. But
here, as a foil to Beraud’s, we see Rosa
Bonheur’s “King of the Forest” and the
“Overthrow,” for they are full of life, and
wild life too. She is always true to life, in
drawing, and catches the lights of nature
most effectively. 
	Bonnat’s portrait of M. Renan I thought
wonderfully clever; yet some of the critics
tell me it was very “flat” and “cut out,”
despite the rotundity of the subject. But
here, as elsewhere, I looked with my own
eyes.
	Paul Matthey’s "First Proof" gave the
effect of reflected light, on the man’s face,
as he studies the proof in his hand, in a
wonderfully fine way.
	“Our Lady of the Angels” by
Bouguereau, one of those lovely Madonnas
with the face of holy calm, which remind-
ed me of Murrillo’s “Immaculate Concep-
tion,” is holding the most beautiful babe in
her arms, who reaches out his little arms to
you. The back ground of blue sky and
rosy clouds, is filled with child angels and
they hover all about her. The dark blue
drapery and pale red of the gown being the
only decided color, the whole effect was
charming to me; simple in its grouping,
and very fresh and lovely. Bouguereau
must delight in painting babies and beauti-
ful women, for his “Wasp’s Nest,” some-

[Column 2]
times called “Invading Cupid’s Realm” is
an exquisite study of both. The fair sweet
maiden just old enough to begin to think of
love, is a blonde brunette, with the
loveliest eyes of violet blue, and a scant
drapery thrown about her, to match them
in color. She has stepped into a veritable
nest of cupids, such lovely, rollicking, rosy,
mischievous cherubs, who swarm about her
in every conceivable position of grace and
beauty. One intrepid little fellow has
crept toward her and has his hand on her
perfect foot; another whispers in her sea-
shell ear, and one more venturesome still,
is about to kiss her red, ripe lips. It is a
perfect study of innocent babyhood and
girlhood, and as fresh and pretty as it is
perfect in drawing and coloring.
	“The Virgin’s Home” by Dubufe, a
pretty modern looking Virgin, sweet and
dainty, coming down the steps toward you.
She is dressed in white and carries a really
natural baby, whose face and head has no
preternaturally wise look, but who gazes at
you wonderingly, just as most babies do at
a crowd. The home is one of those white
square top houses, with the glare of the
white light of the Orient on it, pretty arbor
and olive trees in the back ground.
	Eugene Feyen’s “The Cancale Regatta,”
a scene in Venice, numberless figures very
tiny, yet each figure is distinct, and the face
is painted expressively. The colors, too,
are vivid and the effect of soft balmy air,
cloudless blue sky and brilliant colors of
flags, boats and costumes, makes it, for me,
a very attractive little picture.
	Tissot’s “The Prodigal Son,” a series of
four pictures, were gems of rich warm
tones, exquisitely painted.
	“An Old Inn in Castile” by Vuillefroy,
was one of those quaint bits of old Spanish
architecture pleasant to look upon. Soft
creamy brown tints that rest the eye,
which often tires looking at the wealth of
color.
	Zuber’s “Under The Beeches” was a
beautiful landscape. The effect of sun-
light, air and distance, remarkably true,
and the perspective a triumph of art. The
largest canvases and some of the small
ones in the German departments were
largely devoted to William the Second, and
one, the immense “Apotheosis,” of Wil-
liam the First.
	The American public I fancy have very
little use for such subjects and they were to
me simply lay figures. Lenbach, the par-
excellence portrait painter of Germany,
shows Bismarck, who modestly takes a
back seat, but is a wonderful picture.
His “Pope Leo,” whose kindly pleasing
face causes us to forgive the glare of his
crimson gown is also fine; and the portrait
of “Monsen” by Prof. Knaus, is magnif-
icent, stands out from the canvas like life.
	“In the Cellar” by Edmund Harburger,
who is called “the witty German painter;”
his subject a fat German lounging between
two beer barrels, is not a very poetic one,
nor inspiring, yet the picture is so fine in
tone and color, that we forgive the coarse-
ness in the harmonious whole.
	Kroenberger’s two paintings “An


