A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY
      
	ON February 3rd at 3 p. m. there was a
large and influential gathering of ladies and
a few gentlemen in the 14th Ward Hall in
this City: the stand and platform were ap-
propriately decorated and several dis-
tinguished representative women beside the
speakers occupied the seats on the platform.
	The Secretary having read the call for the
meeting,—President Emmeline B. Wells
said she simply wished to state that the
meeting had been called to create an interest
and awaken a sentiment upon the subject
of Woman Suffrage. There was no par-
ticular business to be transacted, but some
speeches would be made upon the question.
She then called upon the audience to sing
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” This finished, Dr. Barney
offered prayer, and the song “New
America” was then sung.
	The President then introduced Mrs Zina
D. H. Young to address the audience.
She said: “Ladies and gentlemen—
gentlemen and ladies—we have met to-
gether today upon a grand occasion, at
least to my heart. The words of our first
song referred to ‘Our Country.’ That
will be my text if I take one—‘Our
Country.’ Ladies: If it needed heroes for
our countrymen, where were the heroines?

[Column 2]
We raised the heroes, we imbued their
souls with the love of freedom and caused
them to sustain a George Washington and
his friends. I have often heard my grand-
father tell of the scenes of the revolutionary
war my father of that of 1812, when the
song of the glad tidings of the freedom of
our country was sung. There is a grander
beyond, grander than words can express.
And when we see our country almost
wrecked sometimes by policy and party
that almost drowns principle, we are led to
ask where are the heroines of the last days?
Or in this extended time of our country,
when with glory women may maintain and
retain honorable principles and bestow
them upon their offspring. In view of
this and kindred questions we have met to-
gether today to cultivate and try to
stimulate these glorious principles, and to
let the nation know that we appreciate our
country’s inheritance, and that the mothers
have something to do in the matter. Let us
not lose sight of it. These are the
principles of my heart and always have
been; and let it be remembered that,
though many of us have passed along in
time to see the sear and yellow leaf, “they
that plant pears plant for their heirs,”
this is what we are doing, ladies. The
major portion of us have passed the
meridian; but the glory of our hearts is to
sustain principles that are correct, we are
battling for them today. Let us not desert
our posts. As Joseph Smith used to ob-
serve, “stand to the rack, hay or no hay.”
I was glad to meet with our sisters in the
Grand Congress of the world. There we
were sisters, we are the same here today.
I could almost say like one of old, “Let thy
servant depart in peace, for I see thy glory.”
These are the feelings of our souls. May
we yet attain to our rights; may it be our
happy lot to obtain our rights is my desire
and prayer."
	The President next introduced Hon.
John E. Booth as one of the most dis-
tinguished gentlemen of the territory, with
a request that he should address the meet-
ing.
	Mr. Booth said: “Mrs. President, women
and men: I scarcely understand why I have
been permitted to be here, and I do not un-
derstand exactly why I should receive such
a flattering introduction. But I presume it
is right when things are offered to us freely
that we take them. I will say this, how-
ever, that I think my introduction here is
probably based more upon my zeal on this
subject than on my ability; because if my
ability were equal to my zeal I feel that
more would be accomplished in this line.
I do not remember when I first commenced
thinking about this matter, but it appears
to me that since thinking about it at
all I have never seen but one side.
It may be that I am prejudiced; I think
about that sometimes; but I will say this,
that I regard women very much as I hear
the report of wines—the older they are the
better they are. I believe I am right in
that, with no disrespect at all to the young
ladies, for all they have to do is to wait and
they will get there. It is within the reach
of all of them. But I realize this: that
the higher the civilization, the true civiliza-
tion mankind attains to, the more respect is
paid to woman. More rights are given her.
No, not rights. They have the rights.
I believe that the true meaning of the
Declaration of Independence, wherein it says
that all men are created equal and endowed
with inalienable rights, life, liberty and the

[Column 3]
pursuit of happiness—that that embraced,
in its practicable application, women. It
should be meant. I regard it that they
have these rights, and will have them,
though they have not had the privilege of
enjoying them. But as we get along in
civilization, coming events cast their
shadows before. We are getting nearer
this desired end, and I am very thankful to
say that Utah has taken a front rank in
this. But with regard to some rights I
am almost inclined to believe that the wo-
men of Utah have passed over the line of
right and been granted some privileges
that have not been granted to others.
Still I have no fault to find with that; be-
cause it would only be right if they got
many more privileges over what they have
been deprived of in generations back. But
in regard to property rights, we find that
the property rights of women in this Ter-
ritory are beyond what they are in other
places. Under the old law woman had
very little property rights. Her personal
property when she was married went to
her husband. While she might keep the
title in her name, all rents went to her
husband, and she lost her legal identity
when she became married. I find that
has passed out of date. In 1870, twenty-
four years this month, as I now remem-
ber, the women of this territory were given
their franchise, and under the same law—
not practically the same law, but soon after
that time, they were given the right to
hold property in their name, independent
in every respect from the control of their
husband. That law provided that in
the case of property acquired by descent, or
gift, or inheritance. That law, however,
did not provide for their purchasing
property, but I think two years later that
law was amended so that they acquire
property, and all the property a woman held
before they were married and after, whether
acquired by purchase, gift of descent,
should be hers absolutely, and without the
control of the husband. The same law
provided that the right of dower in this
territory should be abolished, placing men
and women on an equal footing in regard
to property. That law was enforced for
seventeen years and enjoyed by women to
the very great benefit of all the people of
this territory. Women did not receive the
benefit of it alone, but it was a benefit to
the territory, and I say the women handled
that question with very great credit. Per-
haps they did not understand as much
about it as some men do, although they
have the pleasure of knowing that they
did understand the subject as well as some
men did. And that brings me to this
point: is there any objections to granting
women the right of franchise? It is said
they possess certain disqualifications by
reason of their being women and that there-
fore there are certain rights they should not
enjoy, and that men, by reason of their
being men, should enjoy. I have, how-
ever, discovered that every objection that 
has been raised on that ground applies to
men as well as to women.”
	To be Continued.


