BY ALTA WITBECK.

	To every woman whose eyes these words
may reach, I would say: Be kind to
your own sex. Would that my voice
could reach the farthest ends of the earth
when I write ‘‘Women why so unkind to
each other?"


We see it every day in every position and
avenue of life—on the street, in the stores,
on the cars and even in the Churches I am
often actually heart sick at Woman’s Cruelty,
and indifference to each other, cruel both in
words—looks and deeds.
	A tired, delicate, or aged lady will get
in a car comfortably filled with women and
not one attempt to move closer to make
more room, and the elevated eyebrows, the
shrugging shoulders—and oft times mut-
tered words,often sink deep in honest hearts
there to corrode and embitter life perhaps
and again in Social life who is woman’s
worst enemy whose cutting, malignant and
inconsiderate words often mars the whole
life of a young woman.
	I tell you my Sister Woman is not the op-
posite sex whose words slash us, it is our
own petty feelings ard glib tongues which
can account for in no way without it is a
bit of the “Original Sin” left in us.
	But we reccolect the words of one who
said
"There is no thing we cannot Overcome
Say not thy, evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait unborn makes thy life forlorn,
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The great Eternal Will!
That, too, is thine inheritance:—
Strong—beautiful—divine
Some Lever of Success for one who tries"
	And shall we not try to be more loving,
more charitable? We are made of one clay,
children of one Father, with common hopes
and aspirations.
	Shall we not strive then to be known as
women whose words and deeds are those of
kindness to each other—thereby getting
for ourselves a reputation which says to the
world "Here is a gracious womanly wo-
man—pure in heart—loving in nature, and
noble in character."


“THE Bombay Guardian, Dec. 23, re-
ports the safe arrival of Dr. Kate Bushnell
and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew from England,
enroute to Burmah and China. They at-
tended and addressed the Bombay District
Conference of the American Methodist
Mission, then in session at Bombay. They
were conducted by Mr. W. J. Gladwin and
were invited to the platform by Bishop
Thoburn, who formally introduced them to
the Conference.”


