LADIES SEMI- MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies' Semi-monthly
Meeting, held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms, Jan 27, 1894.
	President M. I. Horne presiding, "When
the voice of friendship's heard." Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, "O, God we raise to thee."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. President M. I. Horne said, "I
hope we shall have a time of refreshing, on
this lovely day. I am so glad that the
winter has not been a very severe one.
The Lord surely tempers the elements for
the good of His people.
	Spoke of the troublous times, which was
one sign given in prophecy which was to
precede his second coming.
	Said the present depression was one of
the signs for men’s hearts do fail them, for
they know not what is coming.
	Spoke of a Psalm of David, which
speaks of the people coming to a wilderness
of the many blessings here received, and
then after that they should again be brought
here, yet the Lord will bring us out of all
our distresses, and we will see His mighty
deliverance. The Prophet Joseph also ut-
tered the same warnings. Sisters sang a
hymn.
	President Z. D. H. Young, said "I esteem
this a great privilege, to meet with you.
The question comes to my mind, as sung in
the hymn, "How will Zion be free?" By
serving our God these few sisters here are
going to be free. Faithfulness to the Gos-
pel will make men and women free. Spoke
of the Temple, said every stone is a free
will offering of the saints. Think of it
sisters a temple where God and Heavenly
beings can come. Think of our young
ladies, hear them speak and testify, hear
their essays, full of the Gospel, full of in-
telligence. My heart is full of thankfulness
for these things. Sisters if all appreciated
the good received in these meetings, there
would not be a vacant seat in the room. I
ask God to bless every one who will bear

[Column 2]
their testimony.
	Sister Hazon desired more confidence to
speak of the goodness of God.
	Sister E. Barrus desired to put her trust
in God and do her duty.
	Sister Phelps felt that the Lord would
pour out blessings for the great work now
being done in the Temple. Prayed that the
Lord would give us hearts of firmness,
that we may not be turned from the truth.
	Sister Tate felt thankful for a standing in
the church, knew that this was the work of
God, and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Irvine said we come here for a
blessing yet, we often go away without it
because we do not bear testimony. I feel
thankful to my Heavenly Father for every-
thing I have had to pass through and
humbly ask to be kept faithful.
	Sister Aird said I have seen the power of
the Lord made manifest, have seen those al-
most dead raised by the power of God.
	Sister Minners felt blessed in bearing her
testimony, knew this was the work of God,
and desired to be faithful to the end.
	Two sisters in the congregation bore
faithful testimonies and said many good
things.
	Sister Larson offered a fervent prayer for
the poor, the sick and the afflicted.
	Sister Jane James and a number of
sisters bore testimony. Every one speak-
ing desired the blessing promised by
President Z. D. H. Young it was truly a
time of rejoicing.
	Sisters Phebe C. Young and Mary
Bassett added their testimony, also Sister
Workman.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy of Payson spoke
well and at some length, bearing testimony.
	Sisters Forsyth and J. C. Howe bore
excellent testimonies.
	Sister Frances Smith and L. D. Alder
followed.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters, said she had been
edified by the many faithful and wonderful
testimonies borne. Sisters let us learn to
say "Thy will be done, God bless you for-
ever."
	President M. I. Horne said, sisters let us
profit by the lessons learned here today.
We are all in the hands of the Lord, and
we know "Whom He loveth He chasteneth"
May the blessings of God go with you to
your homes. Meeting was adjourned for
two weeks. Sang "Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing." Benediction by Counselor
E. Stevenson.
