	A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY.

	[Continued.]
	THE speaker commented at length upon
this point, and illustrated how fallacious it
was to bring up objections from an individu-
al standard. He then continued.
	“There is another reason why I think
that women ought to enjoy these rights.
A perfect human being should be equally
developed physically, mentally and morally,
or we might put it still finer than that,
spiritually. It takes all these to make a
complete development of character. If we
cultivate any one of these at the expense of
the others, while we may become eminent
in a single line, still we are not well
balanced. Now, I take it that a com-
munity should be made up in the same way,
and as we change in circumstances we,
necessarily, must change in other ways,
to my thinking, and we are changing in
circumstance. Centuries ago war was the
thing. A man that could fight was sup-
posed to be at the head of everything, and
we have not entirely got over that. But
the chances are wars will not be prosecuted
so vigorously or so frequently as they have
been in the past. The moral force is com-
ing to the front. If a man is educated
physically entirely, he loses both his ability
and his respect for the things he has not
developed, as it requires, in order to make
a perfect human being, that all these at-
tributes should be developed, should be
drawn out and encouraged. I think it ap-
plies in the same way to political govern-
ment; and whenever we sacrifice any one of
these traits for the further development of
the other, then we are making a grave mis-
take. Now, the trouble is how to remedy
that; we have been, in this country, de-
veloping the physical and intellectual,
more or less, at the expense of the moral
and the spiritual, and therefore we have
some very eminent men with regard to
both of these, not only of national but 
world wide reputation. We take illustra-
tions of it. We have seen recently the re-
sults of physical depelopment and there
are some people who take very great de-
light in witnessing such exhibitions. That
illustration was an exhibition of what I
call brute force. I do not care so much for
an exhibition of that kind as an individual.
I regard it much in this way. There are two
animals—I use the brute term of animal to
include both—one is a man, and the other
is a mule. Man may be intelligent, but in
this case I would give more for the mule
than I would the man, merely because the
mule gives better service; I can get more
out of him. We have been in our prepara-
tions in this country, not only in Utah—I
am speaking of the United States—very
lavish, at least sometimes, in the ex-
penditure of public money. This territory
has been lavish in the expenditure of
money for education. I do not believe
there is such another case in history, such
as we can show. Three-fifths, of the entire
revenue of the territory is devoted to school
purposes, and out of the two-fifths of the
territorial revenue we support the Reform
School, the Agricultural College, and the
University of Utah. Again the expense of
collecting the three-fifths of this territorial
revenue, that is, in assessing the property
and collecting the tax, comes out of the
two-fifths. So it presents to us something 
that I believe is unparalleled in, history—
that is to say our generosity in favor of

[Column 2]
education. I believe it is exacting from us
more than it should do by reason of our
circumstances. But we have been very
lavish in our expenditure of public money,
and showing we are very much in
earnest in regard to this mattter of educa-
tion. Now, we have had some develop-
ment of the physical nature, and that has
been going on since 1847; it has been kept
up ever since. We have worked physically
and we have generally earned our living by
physical exercise. Of course there have
been some exceptions; but I am speaking
generally. Now we turned to this intel-
lectual matter, yet we are lacking some-
what in the spiritual or the moral traits. I
do not mean to say we are behind in morals
or manners, but I am speaking of what we
lack in regard to a perfect government.
Now, how shall we remedy this? I believe
the question before us this afternoon is a
complete remedy for the matter. The
moral and spiritual part of man are de-
veloped by cultivation, and yet the moral
and spiritual traits are implanted in women
very early. It is also a fact that is very
patent to me, that women have more of
these traits than men. Women are natural-
ly better than men when it comes to mat-
ters of kindness. I have discovered that
from my association with them ever since I
was a boy. In some respects they are better
than men.
	Take girls from the time they start at school,
say from fourteen to sixteen years of age,
and they lead boys in almost every study.
There are some studies they do dot lead in,
such as mathematics, philosophy, Astronomy
and kindred subjects. Speaking of these
subjects generally, without singling out
individuals, I believe that men lead in these
studies. But in things that pertain to kind-
ness, women keep the lead all their lives.
Now, if a matter of right and wrong is
presented to a man and woman, and you
ask them for an opinion right away, the
woman does not stop to argue or think
about the subject, she will give an answer
immediately as to whether the matter is
right or wrong. The man, if he answers
immediately the chances are that he will
be wrong. But let the man take the
question into his study, and there ponder
over it, perhaps get his library down to
consult about it, and give his opinion, say
in a week; he will then be about as right as
the woman was. But it does not take her
such a long time to form her ideas; she
grasps the question of right and wrong
very much sooner. That is what we want
in this government; we want that element
put into our political constitution, into the
civil polity of the nation. Sometimes we
are called upon to act immediately.
Our political government embraces all parties,
boards of education, boards of every kind
of institutions, legislatures, &c. and I say
that if we had some women in such in-
stitutions, matters that occasionally come
up would be much sooner straightened out.
(Applause.) I am not going to name such
women; but so far as the Legislature is con-
cerned I would willingly trade off some
men in that body for some women.
(Applause.) It might not suit the men, but
it would suit my ideas. Now, I do not
know how long it will be until we reach
all these things. We are getting better;
we are getting a better understanding of
these things. As to the objectious fre-
quently raised against granting women the
franchise I do not think, as I have already

[Column 3]
said, they are well taken. Many people
say, “I do not want my wife to be con-
tinually running away from home.” Again,
some people say, if the women voted they
would vote as the husband says. But I
hold this as a true proposition, that a wo-
man does not lose any of her rights by
reason of marrying. I believe the wo-
man is an absolute entity of herself, and no
man, husband or otherwise, has the right to
interfere with her against her consent. I
have seen the time, of course, in this ter-
ritory when women had the franchise. The
objection was then raised that they voted
just as their husbands told them. If they
did, there was great credit due to the hus-
band—quite a feather in his cap. That is
one of the strongest evidences I know of
that he is right. But I do not think the
men interfered with them in their voting.
I do not know of it. I never asked my
wife which way she was going to vote, or
indicated to her which way she should vote.
I think she is a better woman than any other
woman (the present company excepted.) I
think, however, if I had undertaken to in-
struct her as to how she should vote she
would have used the expression that I re-
member seeing when I was a boy in
England. The expression was engraved in
brass, and contained only four or five
words. I think she would have referred
me to that expression; it pertained to the
Mormon creed—“Mind your own business,"
and if she did not say that she ought to.
She had the right to do it. Therefore, I say
that the women would exercise the franchise
just as well as the men. I do advise
these meetings. I advise that you study
the political situation; that you particularly
commence to learn how to conduct matters.
I persume the first thing women will get
into at all will be matters pertaining to
schools. These matters are conducted
much more simply than are the heavier
matters of a city council, county courts,
and legislative assemblies. But I would
advise that occasionally you have somebody
drop into such meetings, attend the county
courts, city councils, &c. Of course some-
times when you do attend, you will be sor-
ry you went; because things are not al-
ways conducted with great big dignity the
same as they are at home. In these de-
liberative bodies, sometimes the members
get warm and say things that had better
been left unsaid. But attend these meet-
ings when you can. I believe you will be
welcome, and you will learn, from actual
practice, much better than you can from
reading books. You may study from books,
but practical experience is the best. It is a
good thing to go to these places and watch
the proceedings, and when you see things
done that you do not approve of, learn how
to avoid them in the future, and when you
see things that you approve of, learn to use
them in days to come. It is necessary to
acquire such information, not that our ways
are always right. A story is told of a cer-
tain jury. They came out of the jury
room, twelve of them, and they did not
agree. Somebody inquired of one of the
jurymen how it was they could not agree.
Well, he replied, there were eleven fools on
the jury, and I would not go with them.
	Well, there is no need of getting so very
wise. There is no need of assuming that
we are right and that everybody else is
wrong. Acquire knowledge and then ap-
ply it. Knowledge is a very fine
thing, but it is not worth anything unless


you can apply it. Learn to apply that
knowledge. Of course you understand a
great deal of that kind of knowledge which
applies inside of your own doors. I will
consent to that without argument. I yield
the point so far as you have been used, to
domineering—is that too strong?—Well, we
will say having dominion, that will modify 
the matter a little, but I wont come down
much more than that. I suppose you in-
herit it.
	I find my time is up. I desire to thank
you very much for your invitation, and for
the patient manner in which you have
listened to me. I desire to join with you in
this movement; and the time will come—I
expect to live to see it—when this question
of sex will be eliminated from our civil
politics and never again be revived. I hope
to see that day. I have worked for it, I
am still continuing to work for it, and I
never yet voted against a measure that
tended to promote this question. I thank 
you for your attention. I must now catch
my train. (Applause.)
	The next exercise was by Miss Babcock
who recited with fine effect a poem en-
titled “A Woman’s Question.”
[To be Continued.]


