	EXPRESSION OF ESTEEM.

’Tis fit that loving friends should bring,
	Sweet floral offerings fresh and gay;
'Tis fit that Zion’s bards should sing, 
	A jubilant and festive lay
	On Wilford Woodruft’s natal day.

[Column 2]
Or rich, or poor, whate’er their sphere
	Honor to whom is honor due;
Honor to God’s anointed seer!
	Honor to Zion’s chieftain true!
	May gracious heaven his strength renew.
“An Israelite devoid of guile,”
	To honesty itself akin
Noble his record, clear and clean
	Through many long decades of trial,
Through many a soul-appalling scene. 
Born in a most important time,
Number’d amongst a chosen few—
Sent down to fill a role sublime—
A glorious, marv’lous work to do;
	Pertaining to an era new. 
A dispensation long desired,
	And waited for by seers of old;
A dispensation that required
	The noblest spirits brave and bold,
To storm Tradition’s powerful hold. 
Joseph, the youthful Prophet had
	Sore need of heroes in the field;
Who in the Gospel armor clad,
inspired with faith and light revealed,
	Fought for the Truth and would not yield. 
Faith, steadfast faith, was unsubdued—
Unconquered and unterrified,
When howling mobs, the Saints pursued;
	And dealt distress on ev’ry side
	And drove them to these valleys wide. 
These shelter’d valleys fair and broad,
	That ne’er shall be the foeman’s spoil,
Here in this refuge, long untrod—
Our Hero first upturned the sod—
And planted seed in virgin soil. 
The wilderness is nowhere seen.
	The desert is redeemed from drought,
Her summer robes of emerald green
	Are rich and beautiful throughout;
	The Source of blessings, who can doubt?
Oppressions’s hand so oft upraised
	To vex or put the Saints to flight,
is turn’d aside, the Lord be praised.
Who from the gloom evolveth light
	And ordereth everything aright. 
"Amid the mountain tops” behold!
	The Temple towers salute the sky;
The angel lifts his trump of gold,
	And sends afar the warning cry,
“Repent, the judgment hour is nigh.’
’Tis written, "judgment shall begin, 
	At God’s own sacred house,” and hence
A part of Bab’lon’s strife and din.
Trouble and woe and dire suspense,
E’en Zion’s children needs must sense.
The prophecies we see fulfilled,
	The long predicted woes appear
The stoutest hearts, the strongest willed,
	And mightiest nations quake for fear;
Zion’s redemption draweth near. 
All Zion’s friends should now rejoice.
	So softened are her waning foes,
Hosanna sing with heart and voice,
	For favors that the Lord bestows:'
Upon the people of His choice.
Peace, shall descend like heavenly dew,
	And on our host and hostess rest;
Forever shall their joys accrue,
Yea, for the good they’ve done, and do,
	Truly they are and shall be blest.
Oh, may we all, as in the past,
	However tried by needful cares,
Cling to the truth and hold it fast,
	Lest peradventure, unawares,
We’ll lose “the priceless pearl” at last. 

[Column 3]
Narrow “the way” and strait indeed, 
	Yet wherefore should we be cast down?
"God is our help in times of need,”
And fittingly ’tis thus decreed—
Endurance wins the promised crown. 
	President George Q. Cannon was the 
next speaker. He referred to the depth of 
the love that existed between President
Woodruff and all who had ever been called
to associate with him, to his guilelessness, 
his honesty, his consideration for others’
feelings and views, and to the great bless-
ings that had come to Israel through his
ministrations and preservation. 
	President Woodruff himself followed. 
He observed that his brethren had said a
great deal about his virtues but not one
word as to his imperfections—which he
knew he had, like all other mortals. From
one part of their testimony, however, he 
felt that he might not deviate in the slight-
est degree, and that was their allusion to
the power of God that had preserved and 
sustained him. To Him he felt to give the
glory; and as to whether his remaining
time on earth should be brief or extended,
he had no desires save that all of it should 
be employed in God’s service. His remarks
were full of promise and inspiration, and 
they were listened to with the profoundest
interest. 
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith called at-
tention to the historical incident, and testi-
fied of it, that so far as she knew President
Woodruff and herself were the only living
persons,who had received their endowments
under the personal ‘authority and adminis-
tration of the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo. 
	Intermission was announced and more
music given while Bishop J. R. Winder,
who, was in charge, lead the way to the 
dining hall. The arrangements for this
part of the program were excellent, and the
refreshments were delicious and tastefully 
served to the guests, by a dozen or more 
young men and women, who seemed to en-
joy the service. 
	After the intermission the party re-
assembled and listened to more music and 
short speeches by Elder H. J. Grant, Geo.
Goddard, M. W. Merrill, Ezra T. Clark and
A H. Cannon. Br. Clark alluded to the
meeting in Nauvoo after the death of the 
Prophet Joseph when the mantle of Joseph
fell upon Brigham Young, Sister Zina D. 
H. Young testified to the same historic 
fact and said if she had closed her eyes she 
would have felt positive it was Joseph’s
voice.
	Elder David McKenzie then read a poem
written by H. W. Naisbitt entitled “The
Veteran of our Home,” (Affectionately ad-
dressed to President Woodruff on his 87th 
birthday March 1st, 1894.) The remarks
of Br. Clark and Sister Zina in reference to 
the occasion when it became conclusively 
evident to the majority of the assembly 
present that the mantle of Joseph had fallen
upon Brigham suggested to the Presidency
that all present who heard the sermon
should rise to their feet. Those who re-
sponded were eighteen in number those 
who knew Joseph in Kirtland there were
seven. Those who knew the Prophet
Joseph during his lifetime thirty nine. 
	President George Q. Cannon announced 
that as all present would like to shake hands
with President Woodruff and his wife in 
whose honor the party was given, they 
would conclude with an informal reception
to give all the opportunity of congratulating


and shaking hands with the President and
Sister Emma Woodruff. The Doxology
was sung and the guests in turn offered
their personal greetings which was a suita-
ble closing to a very happy and pleasant
day.


