		BEAVER CO. W. S. A.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Beaver County Woman’s Suffrage 
Association held their annual for the 
election of officers Friday, Feb. 16, 1894.

[Column 2]
	The house was beautifully decorated our 
suffrage flag with its two golden stars oc-
cupying a conspicuous place on the walls.
	Although a severe snowstorm was raging,
the Relief Society Hall was well filled,
about one hundred ladies and gentlemen
being present.
	The delegates from the lower settlements
responded to the call, those from Minersville
bravely riding eighteen miles through the
storm to be present. An excellent
programme was carried out, consisting of
speeches, readings from the History of Wo-
man’s suffrage, an essay, songs, toasts and
sentiments. The string band kindly lent
their services and the sweet strains of music
greatly added to our enjoyment. Refresh-
ments were served, and all felt we had en-
joyed a treat besides giving fresh impetus to
the cause in this county. A number of our
leading men were present all of whom ex-
pressed themselves in favor of woman's
suffrage. The following resolutions were
adopted unanimously. Resolved, “That
all citizens should enjoy the right of suffrage
regardless of sex.
	Resolved:—That we extend our hearty
congratulations to the women of Colorado
and Wyoming on having entered, at last in-
to their rightful heritage.
	Resolved:—That we tender to the women
of New York and Kansas our heartfelt
sympathy in the crisis pending in those
states.
	Resolved:—That the action of the
Supreme Court of Michigan in depriving
the women of that state of municipal suf-
frage is a step backward, and is contrary to
the spirit of the Constitution and the age in
which we live and as such receives our un-
qualified disapproval.
	The Officers elected for the ensuing year
are:—Prest. M. A. White; first Vice. Prest.
Mary Fernley; second Vice Prest., Hettie
Gentry; third Vice Prest., Harriet S.
Farnsworth; fourth Vice Prest. Alice
Herbert. Rec. Sec. and treasurer Clara F.
Murdock; Cor. Sec. Caddie F. Murdock.
Executive Board, Louisa Jones, Chairman.
S. C. Maeser, W. G. Bickley, Jane Bickley,
M. E. Murdock. For Minersville, Mrs.
Ada Rollins Vice Prest. Adamsville, Mrs.
Margaret Pierce Vice President. Green-
ville, Mrs. Mary Davis, Vice Prest.
	THE EXPONENT is a welcome visitor.
It is doing a good work in the Suffrage
cause.				LOUISSA JONES.


