[Column 1]
Amusing Chronicle” and “A Good Hand”
were little gems,and brought a smile no mat-
ter how tired one  might  be,  “The Good
Hand” especially.   The  old  man holds  a
first rate  hand at  cards and cannot  keep
back the grin of satisfaction.   The  perfect
detail from  the face of the man to the finger
tips is wonderfully well worked out.  “The
Amusing Chronicle" has  caused  the com-
fortable looking  old  priest,  to  forget  the
dainty mouthful he was carrying to his lips,
and while he holds the pamphlet in one hand
he throws back his head  and  laughs right
merrily,   the other hand still  poised half
way  to his mouth.   They are tiny canvases
but so perfect in detail,  that you  see  as  it
were the whole scene of the story,  though
in both, but a part of each is suggested.
	“The Roll Call” by  Lady Butler, said to
be the  most celebrated painting by  a wo-
man,  unless  we  except,  Rose Bonheur’s
“Horse Fair,” we find in  the English  de-
partment,  of course.
   I had hoped to enjoy greatly Sir Frederick
Leighton’s paintings,  and I must say I was
disappointed  in  them.   No  doubt  it  was
lack of culture or knowledge,   I  am free to
admit it,  but  I  failed  to  be  impressed by
either the power,  or drawing,  or  coloring,
in  his “Hercules Wrestling With Death For
The Body  of Alcestes.” His “Perseus”
and “Andromeda” was more  to my taste,
though the former was called “the" paint-
ing in the English department.   His bronze
piece, "The Sluggard" was very fine.   His
“Garden of Hesperides” is  beautiful  in
gorgeous  effect of color,  and of course the
three girls guarding the  golden  apple, are
perfectly drawn,  but  their  drapery is  stiff
and ungraceful.
	‘‘Two Little Home Rulers,” sons of the
Earl   of Aberdeen,   dressed  in  the  Irish
costume   and  seated  in a  wheel  barrow,
which stands in the midst of a potato field:
very bright mischievous little fellows they
look,  and a charming study for portraits.
   Sir  John  Millais “Bubbles,” attracted
me.   Of course we are all familiar  with  it
(more is the  pity)  from  its having  been
reproduced as an advertisement of “Pears
Soap,” but the  sweetness of the  beautiful
blonde child’s expression,  and the perfectly
delightful coloring so  pure  and  fresh, are
charming.    The  bubbles,   too,   look  as
though a breath  would bnrst them. It  is
altogether a lovely picture.
   I was greatly impressed with the beauty
and  naturalness of the modern paintings of
the  Virgin,  especially  charming are  our
“Lady of  The Angels,” “The Virgin’s
Home” "The Virgin’s Thread,” Thayer’s
“The Virgin Enthroned,” and  Gabriel
Max’s	“Madonna	and Child,”	and
“The Annunciation”  by  Pearce.
    Certainly  my  appreciation  of  art and
beanty have been greatly widened by what
I saw   at  the   Great  Fair,  and I did not,
could not,  look at the display in  a captious
spirit.   I was  too  happy to have the priv-
ilege of wandering among the treasures, to
do aught but enjoy,  and skip  those parts I
did not fancy.   Nor was I like  some poor
dyspeptic always looking  down  for  the
debris of lunch  or litter of  a  crowd, but
ever, I hope, on the alert to see the bright
and beautiful about me.
   The French  exhibition  seemed to me to
be strongly  and  largely  voluptuous  and
sensuous.   The English, simple and pure,
or as one writer expresses it, “Wethank the
English  for  having  painted  the  nursery,
where the French  paint  the harem.    The

[Column 2]
American,   wholesome  and  healthy  as a
whole.
   Of course my special interest centered on
the Private and Art Loan collection,  which
was a  rare chance to  see at  home what  I
had small  chance of seeing abroad.   In the
Art Loan Collection I  was  greatly  disap-
pointed not to find some of the Old Masters,
but nevertheless there  were  many  master-
pieces of  the later schools.
	T.Rousseau’s “Near Barbizon” was an
exquisite landscape.
    Corrot,  Millet,  Troyon,  Messonier, and
many  more  were  there,   The  pathos  of
Millet’s style was beautifully expressed in.
“The Man With The Hoe” and “Bringing
Home The Calf.” The  poetry  of  Corrot
in “The Dance of the Nymphs,” “Even-
ing,” “The Path  To  The Village,” 
“Orpheus,” and several others gave  us his
soft,  rich  tones  and  beautiful  misty per-
pectives. Troyon’s poetical  pictures,  of
which “Going Home” was  a  beautiful
example, were there to the number of  four,
all rich in tone and ideally lovely.
	Cazin’s “Elsinore,” the home of Hamlet,
was an exquisite little piece, of  castle walls
and moat with back ground of dark cypress
trees,giving the effect of loneliness. “Mid-
night-Moonlight, Abbeyville,  was another
of  his I greatly admired.
   John Constable’s “Shepherd And Flock,”
a charming  pastoral scene with splendid
perspective.   The church is seen far in the
distance.  And, oh, so many more I feasted
my  eyes upon.
   And now for a few words on the Russian
department, the one  where I   found  what,
to me, were the most interesting pictures of
all,  with the exception perhaps  of some in
the Art Loan  Collection,  but certainly  of
the modern schools, the pictures I liked the
best.   This department I  visited  first  and
here I lingered at  the close of my last day
at  the Fair.   So  often we  see  pictures of
Moses as a pretty little babe in  his basket of
rushes,  but  in Ashnazy’s “Parents of
Moses" we  see his  home;  a most pathetic
picture to me;  to  be sure  the omnipresent
little Moses is here  too, in his  little basket,
where the loving hands of  his heart broken
Mother have placed him, as a last resort  to
save his precious life.   All the Mother love
is in her face and the agony of trusting his
preciousness to the frail basket;  but the de-
termination to try  it rather  than suffer the
more terrible  one  hanging  over his  little
head, of death.   The  Father  sits  looking
on with clenched hands  and lines of agony
in his face.   The interior of the  room and
the figures are Egyptian,  but  the  yearning
agony in  the Mother’s face,  is simply
human.
    Constantin Makovsky’s “Brides Attire”
was wonderfully rich in color and detail.
The eager expression of the groom, desirous
of entering the door, but  kept  back by the
mother’s hand was a  quiet  bit  of  humor.
The picture  was  full of  happiness.   The
same artist’s “Romeo and Juliet,” a charm-
ingly ideal couple, and delicate and refined
in color.
	Aviagovosky’s “Santa Maria   On   Its
Way to America,” when Columbus, during
a heavy storm,  was surrounded  by his re-
volting crew;  the  incessant  motion of the
waves, the conflict of the winds and waters,
the battle of  the clouds,  the meeting of the
sky and ocean on the sunlight horizon, and
the breaking of the storm,   where the light
strikes across  the  ship  in  a  rainbow   of
promise, are wonderfully impressive.
    There were  a large number of  pictures

[Column 3]

here worth hours of study and  contempla-
tion.
	Seimeradsky’s “Christ At The Home Of
Lazarus” was a beautiful picture,  restful
and  lovely  to look upon.   The  sunlight
filtering through the arbor at the side of the
house and on  the figure of Martha as  with
impatience written on  her  face, she  walks
down  the steps  toward  Jesus  and  Mary,
who  sit  conversing, the dove  cooing and
feeding  near.   The  white  light  of  the
Orient,  the coolness of  the arbor, the  sug-
gestion of a gentle breeze,  which seems to
move  the  leaves  as you  gaze,  with  just
color enough in the drapery  of  the figures
to  light  up   the dead   white,  was  very
beautiful.   There was always a  crowd of
admirers before this truly  religious picture.
    In the Woman’s building, the art display
was  most  creditable.   Among  the mural
decorations, the grand  hall  was a frieze at
each end painted by American women, Mrs.
McMonnies and Miss  Casset.   The former
shows a sure  hand and true conception  of
decorative art; a fresh and pure imagination,
and accords well with the idea of  the build-
ing intellectually and artistically considered.
Miss Casset’s, with  its crude greens  and
blues,  is  not  so  pleasing to my  eye,  nor
does it harmonize in  thought  with the rest
of  the decorations, tho’ the    border is
beautifully painted, the children charming.
The sarcasm implied in the panel where the
figure  of “Fame” is pursued by  women
and  geese, is anything but  flattering  to a
Woman’s Building;  but I suppose we must
take into consideration, the fact, that Miss
Casset is an apostle of “Impressionism”
and this an exponent, of the art.
    The library with its ceiling  and graceful
decoration, is a work  of art  in the highest
type.   The color of the room  is its crown-
ing charm,  being  a  subtle play  of  water
tints of greens, green  browns,  blue greens
and brown blues,  intermingling as they do
in nature and with  the same quiet  restful-
ness  of  effect.    The  harmonious coloring
the  graceful  grouping  and  thought  dis-
played in the beautiful ceiling of the library,
show us the possibilities of a most success-
ful future in Mrs. Wheeler’s chosen profes-
sion.
   Marie Bashkirtseff's painting of “Jean and
Jeaques” attracted  much  attention.   The
little brothers are very natural and cunning,
and  it  is a well painted  and  pleasing
picture.   Here  too  we  have  samples  of
Queen Victoria’s artistic talent, as   well as
that of some  of her  children.   I  was not
impressed  with  her  work.    The  pencil
sketch    of   her  little  terrier,  was only a
few lines suggesting a dog, and might have
been done by any school child.   The head
of  an  East  Indian   in  water  color,  the
Queen’s Indian  Secretary, was  very good.
Six Sketches, water color, views from  her
window at Balmoral and  one or  two more,
small water color and pencil sketches,  of no
merit whatever so far as I could see,  except
as  the work   of   a   Queen.       Princess
Christian’s work,   however,   had   some
merit.    In  fact  a picture  in oil  of an old
castle with  sunset  sky  effect  was  very
clever.    The  paintings of Princess Louise
and  Beatrice were  worth  looking at;  but
their mamma  had  no more  talent  than a
school girl’s first  attempts.      I  have  no
possibility of her coming to such knowledge
I feel free  to give  my  honest impressions.
    Of  the ‘‘Impressionists,’’with their crude
blues, greens and lavenders, dashed  on the


canvas in specks, their motto of “down
with conventions,’ and their theories of
perspective and indifference to detail, it is
said “they have come to stay.” Let us
hope in the future we may discover some of
the “truths” in this school and “honest
purpose’’ that is to influence the work of
all “coming artists.” If I attempt to de-
fine which school of painting I admire
most, taking school of painting in its
broadest sense, I would say I enjoyed the
Russian most. Their intenseness, their
rich yet tempered and gorgeous harmony
of color, their individuality in point of con-
ception, idea and power, gratify my taste
and feeling fully. They are neither
Realists nor Impressionists. Their religious
paintings have the impress of devoutness
and simple taste; their studies of nature are
in its grandest, its loveliest and most
natural phases. They do not effect the
nude, which I was thankful for, having
been surfeited on that in the French depart-
ment. While some of our American
artists,. Harrison for one, spoil beautiful
landscape effects, by painting naked women
in the foreground as for example “In
Arcadie.” It must be a master hand in-
deed, who can paint the nude that is not
coarse; and while I have yet many, very
many, pictures in my mind, I must not for-
get there are others whose impressions are
worthier than mine for your perusal, and
so give place to them.
The joy, the delight of those halcyon
days, of that festival beside the waters of
Lake Michigan, will live in my memory,
forever. It was a realization of my child-
hood’s dream of fairy-land. It is past, yet
who can estimate its marvelous effects on the
minds of those who were privileged to see
its beauties of architecture, its wealth of
art, its magnificent monuments and mar-
vels of science. That I was granted the
privilege of wandering through its broad
streets and sailing on its beautiful lagoons,
of enjoying the treasures housed in its
classic halls, causes my heart to swell with
gratitude. Many and fragrant are the
memories of the moments passed amid the
beauties and wonders of those treasure
houses.
“And when the stream,
Which overflowed the soul, was passed away,
A consciousness remained that it had left,
Deposited upon the silent shore 
Of memory, images and precious thoughts,
That shall not die, and cannot be destroyed.”
