HIS WIFE'S TALENTS. 449 their overabundance of energy. She took them to the back of the house and improvised a work-bench before she went in to clear up the table. Naturally she fell to thinking of what Frank had said. She wondered if she could plan her work a little better and find time to practice. She would try. Now, this afternoon there was the dinner work to do up, the beds were not made, there were the basement shelves to clean and Kathryn's dress to finish. Perhaps if she hurried and could keep at it she could get through before supper time. She began to sing as she worked, with this thought in mind. "Mama, please dress my dolly, and see, she is bleeding sawdust." It was three-year-old Kathryn holding up her wounded baby for mother's help. Kate wiped off the sink and washed her hands, then took the doll and mended and dressed it. This done she hurried down to the basement shelves, hoping to get this task finished before the baby awoke. She had just started, however, when his cry called her, and with a little sigh she thought how futile after all are a mother's plans. She took the baby up and gave him something to eat, then setting him in the high-chair went back to her work. Before she had finished she had stopped once to do up a twin's thumb, again to put the baby into his buggy and wheel him onto the lawn where the children could amuse him, and once more to rescue a doll's bonnet from the irrigating ditch where a teasing brother had thrown it. It was now almost four o'clock and the dress had not been touched. Kate was not easily discouraged, however, and decided to leave the sewing and practice a little just to make a start and to convince Frank that she did have an interest in her music, even if she had uncomplainingly given it up to the service of him and their babies. She hurriedly slipped on a fresh dress and went into the parlor, glancing out of the window to see that the children were all right, and sat down at the piano. As her fingers wandered carelessly over the ivory keys she felt all her old passion for her art returning. If she only could have an hour or so with her music every day, how much it would add to life for her. She went on picking up old forgotten melodies one after another, and living over the carefree days that had gone with them. She forgot the children; she forgot the present and was again pretty Kate Wheeler pouring out her soul in exquisite sound. A baby's frightened scream brought her back to the world of reality. She rushed outside just in time to see Barrel drag the baby from the ditch. The other three children resembled so many muddy, bedraggled rats. 
 Just then Frank entered the gate. "Why, what in the world does this mean?" he demanded. "It means that I took your advice and tried to practice a few moments on the piano," Kate answered, snatching up the baby and hurrying into the house to hide the tears of vexation that choked her. After the children had been bathed and fed and put to bed, and Frank and Kate sat at their own supper, he remarked thoughtfully, "I've been thinking, Kate, about your music and I think I have a plan." "Please don't mention it, then," she replied rather sharply. "I can see plainer than anyone else that it is impossible. Since I am the loser, why worry about it?" "Now, Kate, you have the wrong attitude. You are not the only loser if you bury your talent, and I am going to see that you do not do it." "Are you going to hire a nurse to take care of the children while I practice?" she demanded sarcastically. Her husband flushed. "You know I would if I could, but since I can't do that I'm going to offer myself." It was Kate's turn to be surprised. "Now, I'm sure you found time to practice today and all would have gone well if it had not been for the youngsters. Here's my plan. I am going to bring some of my work home every afternoon and relieve you for an hour or so. Abstracts and documents like that I can do just as well here as at the office. You see I take the active part of the office work in the forenoon anyhow, so can easily arrange this plan with McGregor. I'll take the whole responsibility so you can be perfectly free with your music. It will be a good thing for me and the youngsters as well. Why, I'll have to admit that I hardly know the little beggars. And the twins, I can see, really need a father's discipline." Kate smiled at the first part of the proposition a little doubtfully, but suddenly she acquiesced with the thought that if she did not gain much from the arrangement musically, Frank's eyes might be opened to some things he had not seen before. Accordingly, the next day found Frank leaving the office at three o'clock, hurrying toward home with a roll of legal blanks in one hand and a couple of law books in the other. (to be continued.) In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. RELISHES AND PICKLES. The season of pickling time has rolled around once more, and no matter how much dietists write about the indigestibility of pickles, housekeepers will still make and serve them. Most people concede they are not good for man, woman or beast. In my own home I make my relishes very mild; and I do not make a practice of serving them regularly. In making pickles, never use metal vessels. A tiny piece of alum scalded in the vinegar, makes the pickle crisp. If vinegar has to be boiled, never boil it more than three or four minutes, as it loses in strength. Always buy the best cider vinegar to be had. Put pickles away in glass or stone jars. If, at any time, the pickles have the appearance of spoiling, pour off the vinegar and put fresh scalded vinegar on. Small cucumbers can be pickled early in the summer; put in brine for a time, then put into vinegar and they can be used later on in chow-chow and many other pickles. Pickled peaches, pears, grapes, etc., make extremely good relishes. They are more easily digested than pickles made of cucumbers, cabbage, etc. Compared with purchased pickles, those that are made at home are much cheaper and safer. Chili Sauce. 1 pk. tomatoes (skinned) 6 onions 1 c. sugar 1/2 c. salt 1 qt. vinegar 1 ts. celery seed Chop vegetables fine, add the other ingredients and boil until thick. Mustard Pickles. 3 qts. cucumbers cut up 1/2 c. mustard 2 qts. cauliflower 1 cup flour 2 qts. small onions 2 tb. turmeric 2 c. sugar Use enough brine to cover, allowing four quarts of water to one pint salt. Pour over the mixture and soak over night. Drain in the morning. Put vinegar on stove and add vegetables, when boiling. Mix flour, sugar and turmeric with a little cold vinegar, and stir into the pickles, and cook until smooth, and the vegetables are tender. 
 Tomato Meat Relish. 30 ripe tomatoes 12 sour apples 10 onions 6 green peppers 4 tb. salt 1 qt. vinegar Scald and skin tomatoes. Pare and core apples. Peel the onions and remove stems and seeds from peppers. Chop all fine. Mix thoroughly; add vinegar, and cook slowly one and one-half hours, and then add 4 tb. mustard seed, 1/2 tb. cloves, 1/2 tb. cinnamon and 1/2 tb. pepper. Seal in air tight jars. Pickled Onions. Select small onions. Make enough strong brine to cover, and let stand 24 hours. Replace the old brine with new, and let stand again 24 hours, and change again on the third morning. On the fourth day, wash onions and put cold water on and bring to the boiling point. Drain and rinse in cold water in a jar, and distribute slices of red pepper among them. Pour boiling vinegar over to cover. Spanish Pickles. To one peck of green tomatoes, cut in thin slices, put one-half cup salt. Let stand over night, then add one and one-half pints green peppers cut fine and three pints of onions. 1/2 tb. ginger 1 tb. celery seed 1 t. cloves 1/2 c. mustard 1 t. allspice 1 c. sugar Vinegar to cover, and boil hard five minutes. SALAD DRESSING. 3/4 cup tomatoes. 1/2 teaspoon pepper. 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 1/2 teaspoon mustard. Beat eggs and water and vinegar, add mixed dry ingredients; cook until thick, stirring constantly. Cut hard boiled eggs and cress fine. Do this separately, then combine with the dressing. A little whipped cream will improve the dressing. Rub a freshly-cut lemon over ink immediately after it has been spilled on carpet. No matter what the color of the carpet this will take out the fresh stain without injury to it. Remove the odor of food from a wooden chopping bowl by soaking the bowl in boiling water in which a little soda is dissolved. A tablespoonful of soda to a gallon of water is the proportion.
