A PRINCE OF UR. 461 chariot, rattling grimly as the carriage was flung by the swift flight onward. "What ho for Ur!" echoed the Prince Terah, who followed swift in the wake of his royal master and kinsman. "What ho for Ur! The palace of the Prince of Ur shall open wide its gates for my royal guests and kinsman. What ho for Ur! Speed the runners. Quicken the chariot wheels in their revolutions. Fling the stinging lash wide over beast and man. What ho for Ur!" Within the palace enclosure, no sound of the flying squadrons would penetrate Ur for hours. The hosts were traveling by night to reach the city for the yearly feast to Elkanah. Nimrod determined, as he rode along, that the human sacrifice to be ofifered up should be sufficiently large and imposing to gratify the deepest blood-lust amongst his restless, fiery-tempered soldiers, and especially should the local priesthood feel the weight of his offering as a powerful concession from the monarch who had removed the central sanctuary from old Ur to the sumptuous newer city of Nineveh. In the far distant quarters of the slaves of the palace of Ur there shuddered and wailed the voice of lamentation for the dead. The emperor's for distant hosts Ur of the might ride but Chaldees, death in will swiftly cool midnight the claim her own, rush and the mourners' cry rose loud and shrill as the sable wings of the angel of Death beat upon the midnight air. (to be continued.) The Relief Society will hold its semi-annual conference on Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, 1915. Two general sessions will be held on Friday, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., in the Assembly Hall. On Saturday, two business meetings for officers, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., will be held in the Bishop's Building, when reports from' the standing committee of the General Board will be heard, and specific instructions on Relief Society work will be given. It is expected that every stake in the Church will be represented at this conference. Noon luncheon will be served as usual in the auditorium of the Building for our visiting delegates, on Friday and Saturday. The Social Hall Cafeteria will serve dinner and supper all through the Conference and Fair w:ek. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. During the past five months, the British navy has captured or destroyed 40 German submarines; which goes to show that submarine warfare is no longer a one-sided a:ame. The recent Haitien revolution was a bloody affair which the United States has stepped in to settle, may at least preventing active hostilities in the effort of the people there to govern themselves partlv after their own liking. A raid of 62 aeroplanes from France into Germany dropping bombs and doing great damage, suggests that a fleet of 10.000 aeroplanes. such as is proposed, would be a terrific menace to any thickly populated region which might be assailed. Half-a-hundred Sevier Valley farmers made a trip through northern Utah in their own automobiles in August— a great change from the tramping and toiling of half-a-century since, when a few settlers in the Sevier Valley were fighting Indians for the privilege of staying there. Tlie temperance movement that is sweeping over the world is now including a strong protest against the cigarette habit and over-indulgence in coffee and tea. The argument in favor of right living seems to be growing more efficacious with the extending field of its publicity. lender the management of Maud Mav Babcock. the Utah Theater in Salt Lake City will eliminate its Sunday performances, being content with working six days a week. The change is highly commendable for its moral effect, as well as for giving to its company of artists the needed one-day-in-seven rest. On August 20. a meeting was held in Salt Lake City, at which a resolution was passed favoring an equal suffrage amendment to the national Constitution. If women in other States were as well informed on governmental affairs generally as they are in Utah and the equal suffrage States, there would be no need for such amendment, since all the backward States would already have the franchise. Dr. Stephen Langdon. assyriologist. etc., of Oxford University, CURRENT TOPICS. 463 England, claims to have discovered tablets older than the Deluge, in which he says the Sumerian theology asserts that Noah, and not Adam, was the cause of the fall of man, 1,000 years before the period given in Genesis. It is notable that many learned men have sought to discredit the account given by Moses, and equally definite that all of them have failed. Dr. Langdon also says that his discovery reveals a claim that ten earthly kings reigned an average of 43.200 years each. If he had said 43,200 days — 60 years — he would have been more reasonable in his treatment of the claims he is discussing, for then he might find believers in his interpretations. On the first anniversary of the outbreak of the present European war, the pope of Rome made an appeal for peace, with apparently little effect. But the real aim and influence of this appeal must not be judged without future developments, which may give the proposition notable vitality. Pope Benedict is an astute politician, and fully realizes the enhanced prestige that would come to the atican if he should he able to occupy a commanding place in the peace negotiation; ; hence the purpose of his appeal is likely to be sought in much further activity. In the early part of August, Erie, Pa., was the scene of a great disaster Ijy a storm which transformed a small stream flowing through the city into a raging torrent, causing the loss of over 30 lives and about six million dollars in property. Then came the great Gulf storm in the middle of August, over Galveston and eastern Texas up through central and eastern Missouri, doing tenfold more damage to life and property than was registered at Erie. Besides these, there were thousands of lives lost in the great storm in China. Truly, 1915 is making a record for storm as well as for war. Whatever may be the outcome in other fields, the elimination of Turkey as a great world-power seems to be definitely on the program; and whatever may be the geographical distribution of the present Osmanli domain, it seems equally certain that the section between the lower Euphrates and the Mediterranean, including Palestine, will fall to the share of Great Britain. That truly will be a long step toward the "times of the Gentiles" being fulfilled and that a purely Gentile race, the Turcomans, will be stop]3cd from its centuries of "treading down" Jerusalem, by the inauguration of a building-up process which attends the controlling influence of that race from which so much of the "blood of Israel." particularly of Ephraim. is being gathered to the "tops of the mountains" in the western land of Zion. EDITORIAL .  THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs.