Music in the Church and in the Relief Society. No people on the earth have appreciated music, or have given more encouragement to the untrammeled expression of this exquisite art, than have the Latter-day Saints. The Prophet Joseph Smith loved music with a strength that amounted to a passion. He was not himself a trained musician, but his soul was attuned to harmony in every sphere. So that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he made music a part of every ritual and sacrament of this Church. In 1830, when the Church was organized, music in the United States was in its swaddling clothes. Dr. Lowell Mason was just beginning his pioneering work of improving the New England psalmody. There was no public orchestra, no philharmonic, no opera, no chamber music recitals, and no music publishing houses. A very few operatic and instrumental virtuosi later found their way from Europe to America, that is, between 1840-1850. Only one choral society existed — the Handel and Haydn Society of Boston, founded in 1815. Churches still looked upon secular music as second only in allurement and danger to dancing and "playacting." The Latter-day Saints made a bold leap into musical tradition when they incorporated all musical possibilities in social intercourse, on the hearthstone, and at the altar. Away back in Kirtland, the Prophet made music an integral part of every social, domestic, and divine service. Elder M. C. Davis was the choir-leader there, and he had at least three assistants; for when the Kirtland temple was dedicated, the choir was divided into four parts, and placed in the four corners of the room, while the four choristers had seats in the pulpits at each end of the hall. The songs sung on that glorious occasion were nearly all original; "Ere Long the Veil will Rend in Twain," by Parley P. Pratt, and "Oh Happy Souls who Pray," "Hosanna," 
 "This Earth was once a Garden Place," the latter three written by W. W. Phelps. One hymn by Watts, "How Pleased and Blessed was I," was placed upon the program. The congregation no doubt joined in the happy strains of prayer and praise on that wonderful occasion. The Prophet's close associate — Brigham Young — came from a musical family; his father, John Young, was an excellent singer, while his mother, Abigail Howe, was one of the first Howe sisters who sang everywhere in their native Massachusetts towns. The Young brothers — John, Joseph, Brigham, and Lorenzo — sang quartets with natural harmonic gifts. The Prophet loved to hear the Young brothers sing, and often invited them to his house to make music. "Mother" Whitney — wife of Bishop Newel K. Whitney — was a sweet singer, and her quaint ballads and hymns were always called for in the home of the Prophet. Susan Devine was Nauvoo's most glorious female singer. She was a sister-in-law to William Pitt, the leader of the brass band and of the string band of Nauvoo. Another Nauvoo musician was Mrs. Pitchforth, who was an accomplished pianist; she went from house to house, giving melodeon, piano and organ lessons — for there were pianos in Nauvoo, President John Taylor had one, and President Heber C. Kimball had one and brought his piano across the plains to the Valley. The splendid Nauvoo Martial Band, under the baton of Demick Huntington, was an inspiration to young and old, alike. There were pioneer distinctions between a "string-band," which had violins and viols as the greater part of the equipment, and the "martial band" which was made up of reed instruments augmented by drums and cymbals, and the brass band was a group of brasses and drums. These bands, with the established church choir, were all a necessary part of the life of Kirtland, of Missouri, and especially of Nauvoo. Many of the early Saints were Methodist converts, and these brought with them the gems of Watts and Wesley. The Prophet discarded such hymns as "Come, ye Sinners Poor and Wretched," but loved, "Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah" and "How Firm a Foundation." ' It was the habit of our song writers and song singers at that time to "compose" words to fit any favorite tune — whether religious or secular. In this, they copied all of the early church musicians. We had many song singers and song writers during the first thirty years. Among these were Parley P. Pratt. W. W. Phelps, our own beloved Eliza R. Snow. John Jaques, Wm. Clayton, C. \Y. Penrose, Henry W. Naisbitt, and Alexander Niebaur. The earliest hymn composers were C. J. Thomas. John Tullidge and His of that dean Careless. "Mormon" hymns musicians constitute our most  and beautiful composers, George contribution MUSIC IX THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 435 to Church music, while he himself brought choral music to its highest mark in our history. One of the pioneer musicians — Prof. C. J. Thomas, conductor of orchestra and choirs, has the distinction of being the oldest active musical worker in the Church. John Kay was a famous singer of Nauvoo. Duzette was a favorite leader in those days. A famous Utah pioneer orchestral conductor was Captain Ballo. a converted Italian, who had been the leader of the Brass Band at West Point, before joining the Church. When asked once why he did not bear his testimony, he replied in broken English: "I bear my testimony with this," at the same time fingering his beloved clarinet. He is said to have been a finished clarinet player, and fine musician. Of the early choir leaders were John Parry, Stephen Goddard. James Smithies. C. J. Thomas, Robert Sant, George Careless and Ebenezer Beesley. . Mention must be made of Professor Evan Stephens who, although much later, is equally gifted as poet, composer, singer and leader. He has made an indelible name for himself in the musical annals of this Church. The Tabernacle Choir, under Prof. Stephens has taken three epochal trips, one to the Chicago Fair, one to sing for the Irrigation Congress in New York City, and one to Los Angeles and San Francisco The present Choir is greatly enlarged and is of international fame. Xot all the fine musicians are located in Salt Lake City, by any means. This little sketch could not reach to half the Church boundaries, and proclaim the excellence of stake and ward choirs, leaders, singers, instrumentalists and composers who constitute a very remarkable percentage of every one of our eight hundred Avards and branches with the seventy-odd stake divisions that constitute our Church today. Among locally famous musicians. none surpass in magnetic leadership, and in extreme popularity. ^-he dean of music at the Brigham Young University. Professor.Anton C. Lund, a graduate of the Leipsic Conservatory. The leader of the Provo choir. Prof. Adolph Boshard. is a natural musician of fine taste and enthusiastic leadershhip Prof. George Thatcher of Logan is one of Utah's most scholarly and polished musicians. His sister. Xettie Thatcher Sloan, is also a fine musician, pianist and singer. The Ogden Tabernacle Choir, under the leadership of Prof. Joseph Ballantyne. has a national reputation. His work is of the highest type of leadership and musical beauty. He took his superb choir to the Portland Fair, and recently to the Panama Pacific and California Expositions, with credit to all concerned. Another local favorite musician is John Chamberlain whose sweet in this song written and dedicated to the "Relief Society, appears number. His choir of little girls who sang this song at headquarters MUSIC IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 437 recently demonstrated anew the affectionate regard in which this zealous and faithful musical leader is held by those who know his worth. It will be remembered that none of the churches during the middle ages permitted women singers to take part in the rituals. Not until Martin Luther broke away so completely from the narrow tradition of the mother church, were women permitted to sing in public or in the church. And even now, women are not allowed as a rule to sing in the Catholic church choirs, nor in the High Church Episcopalian services, where men and boys carry forward all the official musical exercises. The Protestants, however, permitted women to sing in the congregations, and mixed quartets began to be quite popular in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. But it was a long while before organs were permitted in the churches of the reformers and their later followers. In ancient Hebrew times, women were afforded wide opportunities in musical work. We read in the scriptures of there being men and women singers in all the temple services Miriam sang and danced at the head of the women on the shores of the Red Sea, giving responses to the song of Moses, who led the men in that solemn festival. Deborah sang an exquisite song of triumph, after her victory over Sisera. Mary's song is in still all of the ages, and is sung as the magnificat the masterpiece the Catholic churches. But with the apostasy of the Middle Ages women were driven out of their places in the church services, and art, music, science, and education altogether were confined to the priests. No greater evidence of the liberality of the Church to women could be shown, than in the revelation which was given to the Prophet's wife— Emma Smith— in July, 1830, directly after the Church was organized. Think of it, you women who bask now in the sunshine of inherited freedom and equality with the men in this Church! Think what it meant for the Lord to say to this wonderful and favored woman: "And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my Church; "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Through this revelation the door of advancement was opened, and women were given a wonderful opportunity for art culture The first hymn book of the Saints was prepared by Brigham Young, Parley P. Pratt and John Taylor, in Liverpool, n 1840. Since then, this book has passed through 25 editions, md is the most popular published work in the Church. The combination of women's voices in duets, trios, and choral 4. RELIEF MAGAZINE. work is very modern indeed. One hundred years would cover the time that such privilege and opportunity have been offered for women singers. Within the hist 25 years, everywhere in the Christian world, women have entered boldly into every phase of musical achievement, except, perhaps, one, and that is in the composition and conducting of great choral and operatic works. There are a number of gifted women composers in the simplest musical forms — women conductors are known, while women performers and vocalists are as numerous as sands upon the seashore. When the Lord gave Emma Smith that wonderful revelation, there were few women in musical life, and no American had then attempted to gather and publish a collection of hymns. Side by side with men, women sang in all of the Kirtland and Nauvoo choirs, and enlivened the dreary and unhappy journeys across the plains, with the Utah pioneers. Every company had its choir and every ward church since then, has had a mixed choir, where women sing, and usually compose the greater number of such choirs. The Church has produced a galaxy of women singers of varied rank and power. Among them, in early days, Susan Devine leads with Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Mary Ellen Kimball. Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, Sophia Goodrich Hardy, Elizabeth Neslin, Zina D. H. Young, Emily Partridge, and Emmeline B. Wells as associate singers in the choir and around the hearthstones of the Nauvoo and Utah pioneer homes. It would be impossible to name all of the gifted singers of former or later days in the limits of this brief article. Some historian should assume this pleasing duty. Sister Eliza R. Snow was beloved by the Prophet for her rare poetic gifts. She was one of the greatest hymn writers we have ever had. Her hymn, "O my Eather," is one of the standard hymns of the Church. She early began her hymn-writing, and continued throughout all her life. In her later years, she made a fine collection of hymns which she published for the Primary Association. So exacting was she in this labor, that she carried on a voluminous correspondence with eastern composers in order to make her work as nearly perfect as might be. Chief of all of the Utah pioneer women singers stands the name of peerless Lavinia Careless whose glorious lyric soprano voice transported the soul to heavenly realms on the rising waves of melody. The early Church Was full of beautiful singers. Among them may be mentioned Fanny Young Thatcher, daughter of President Young, who was both singer and performer. Tn a family where all were musical, and some were excellent musicians. Eann}was the best — her voice was sweet, true, and very sympathetic, while her piano and organ "touch" was exquisitely beautiful. She was one of the pioneer organists of the old tabernacle. MUSJC IX THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 439 under Professor C. J. Thomas, her sister Mary preceding her in this position. Her sister Janet was likewise an excellent singer and player. Among these pioneer singers was Lizzie Nunn, who was a famous singer, of English birth. Then came Margaret Thomas Romney, who was noted as being a beautiful soubrette actress, and with a charming soprano voice; also Elizabeth ("Lizzie") C. L. Thomas, wife of Professor Thomas. Later came Margaret Swan Hull, lovely dramatic soprano; Sarah Olson Langford, who followed Mrs. Careless as leading soprano of the Tabernacle choir; Agnes Olsen Thomas, whose contralto voice was the inspiration and delight of all Utah; Louie Wells, who had a rare dramatic soprano, while her sister Emmie — both daughters of our honored President Emmeline B. Wells — was also a sweet singer. Nellie Druce Pugsley. supreme as Utah's lyric soprano, is still singing to the delight of all; Bessie Dean Allison, whose rich and mellow contralto voice will never be forgotten in Utah nor ever heard again. She possessed a splendid contralto voice, which she used, however, only in light opera, where she has been a favorite for a number of years. She died Sept. 2, this year, in Ogden. A relative of hers, Ella Ridges, possessed a beautiful voice, and sang very charmingly. The three Tout singers have beautiful voices, and both Hazel and Margaret have made a pronounced success on the light opera stage. Margaret and Nannie both had gifts which would have qualified them for grand opera, if they had taken the time and spent the money necessary for this arduous labor and exalted position. Margaret Tout Browning is the possessor of a magnificent voice, with a charming personality which wins friends wherever she goes. It is a great pity that she confines her work to light opera fields. Hazel Taylor Peery is another favorite local singer, and possesses a lovely, light, coloratura soprano voice: and is also a charming actress, with much histrionic ability. She has studied in the east, and if she had gone on the stage, she unquestionably would have made a great success. Emma Ramsey Morris is one of Utah's greatest and most gifted dramatic sopranos. She had a good training under Mme. Correll of Berlin. If she had followed her profession only she could have attained the greatest heights. Arvilla Clark Andelin is still another gifted and favored contralto. Luella Ferrin Sharp is a beautiful and popular lyric soprano. Mrs. Delia Daynes Hill is another exquisitely lovely soprano. Mrs. Leonine Savage is still another brilliant soprano, who was well-beloved here. Edna Evans, in charge of the vocal department of the University of Utha, has a sweet and flexible soprano, and is as well a fine little actress. Among our Salt Lake singers might be mentioned Sarah Lees Woods, who has a lovely voice, and sings today in the Salt Lake 
 Choir, and Nellie Niebaur is both singer, performer and teacher, and she has taught her own children, besides many others, to express themselves musically and with charm. Mrs. Lottie Crozier is another of our local musicians, who has made a name for herself. Among those who have studied abroad, Lillie Shipp is a very charming singer, and possesses a high and clear soprano voice with much beauty of tone and considerable coloratura. She spent many years in Germany, studying under the famous Madame Corelli, and is indeed an excellently trained singer. Florence Jepperson of Provo, is perhaps the greatest contralto this Church has known. Miss Jepperson is much better known in Boston than she is in Utah; but she is an artist of rare gifts and wonderful personality. It is a pity Utah does not know her better. Among all the Church singers, Emma Lucy Gates is supreme. Of international fame, her genius — which Emerson said is the capacity for hard work — places her among the greatest coloratura sopranos this world has produced. With a range of over three octaves, running up to F in alt, her silver notes are as true and as free as a carolling bird's. Miss Gates has the distinction of being the only Utah singer who has attained to grand opera, and Royal Grand Opera at that. She is as great an actress as singer, and made an unsurpassed record as the prima donna of the Berlin and Cassell Royal Opera houses. She was our first Utah singer who went to Germany for her training. And perhaps the one point about that training that should be noted here, is that she retained her faith and integrity from first to last, and that she set the example for all who followed after, of keeping the Word of Wisdom, attending to her meetings, and of preserving herself as a Latter-day Saint in whatever society she might be thrown. We had many early women music teachers; of the Nauvoo teachers we have mentioned Mrs. Pitchforth. Some early Utah teachers were Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Charlotte Cobb, Sarah Ann Cook, and Sarah Godwin Brown. Among the women instrumentalists, who have achieved place and distinction, not only at home but abroad, we would perhaps name first Sybella Clayton, pianist, and Romania Hyde, violinist. Romania Hyde is still very young, but she is a genius, has a marvelous technique for one so young, combined with a brilliant and magnetic personality, and she has a rarely beautiful tone on her instrument. Sybella Clayton studied in Germany also, and is a wonderful pianist. She has almost a masculine touch in its strength, united with a delicacy of expression which is unsurpassed. She is an ideal accompanist also, and is a genius in her own right. Mattie Reed Evans also went to Germany for study, and was at one time one of our leading pianists. Marriage and MUSIC IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 441 the cares of a home rob us of many women professionals among us; but we would not have it otherwise. Alice Calder Tuddenham was a musician, and did a great deal of work for the Y. L. M. I. A. before her family demanded her presence at home. Another charming violinist is Phyllis Thatcher Spicher who was in Boston and New York, and who possesses a delicacy and fragile loveliness which expresses itself on her violin with touching appeal. Since the Relief Society has undertaken to encourage the foundation of ward and stake Relief Society choirs, there has been a great awakening in musical matters in this Society. We present in this number an excellent article from the pen of one of our gifted Stake Choir leaders, Mrs. Lucy May Green of Granite stake. We have also a piece of music she has composed which will be used in a later issue. Both article and music prove the intelligent quality of Sister Green's work. The General Board would like still further to encourage this important and highly commendable activity. As one phase of the work, we would suggest that the choir leaders secure a little data and history of music in their own ward and society, to preserve in the annals of their Society. We are presenting to you as the frontispiece of this number the picture of our General Chorister— Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward— one of our most brilliant musicians, who is herself a rarely beautiful singer, and the leader not only of our own General choir, but also of the Nineteenth Ward choir, where she lives. Mrs. Edward has the distinction, which is a sad and yet beautiful one, of singing at more funerals than any other musician in the Church. She has seldom, if ever, refused to sing over the biers of the departed. Her voice is a clear, sweet soprano of great range and perfect pitch. Mrs. Edward has had many pupils, and is still a successful and favorite teacher in this city. She has brought the music for our semi-annual conferences into prominence, and has provided a rich, musical feast for all these occasions. The splendid choir which she gathered recently, and which she trained so ably, presented her with gifts and flowers, and letters of appreciation at our last conference. Associated with Mrs. Edward is Miss Edna Coray, a singularly gifted and modest musician who has a wonderful organ touch and considerable technique. She is the only woman in the Church who can and does play the large organ in the Tabernacle and in the Assembly Hall. She had her training in the east, and is well equipped for the work she does. She is sympathetic in her accompaniments, quick in her musical apprehension, and full of artistic qualities in all of her labors. We are very happy that music has thus become a part of our Relief Society work. 
 Sister Eliza R. Snow loved music, and those who have followed in her footsteps — Sisters Zina D. H. Young, and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith have been equally interested in this sublime art, as applied to Relief Society work, while President Emmeline B. Wells sang in the Nauvoo Temple choir, and loved music passing well. She has written a number of hymns herself, some of which are included in our hymn book. The study and practice of music enlarges the soul and refines the feelings. Music is the only art which is referred to in the Scriptures as a part of heaven itself. The Jews would not permit paintings or images to appear in any of their homes and houses of worship. Indeed the second commandment enjoins us from the making of images for religious purposes. We read of no other art practiced so universally in the heavenly courts as that of music. Music is the reward of the righteous, and the occupation of the angels. The birth of the Savior was announced by a heavenly choir, and all the forms and rituals of the early and later Hebrews held music as the very center and speech of all rituals. Music is but the exalted expression of love, harmony and worship. ATTENTION, OFFICERS! MEMBERSHIP IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. Any woman of good character from the oldest to the youngest who desires to unite with the Society shall be welcomed therein. Applicant should be recommended by a member and be received by the majority vote of the members present. Membership in the Relief Society is perpetual. One roll shall be kept to contain the names of all the members and the roll shall be called at all regular meetings. No name shall be removed except by request of the individual; or by a two-thirds vote of the members present at a meeting, and for good and sufficient reasons. Opposite the name of the member removed or deceased, there should be written the word "Removed" or "Deceased" and the date. Immediately after December 1 of each year the officers of the Relief Society should visit every member, giving special attention to non-attendants and urging such members to become active in the Relief Society work. Special effort should be made to enroll those who are eligible and who are not members of the Relief Society. Where members are unable or unwilling to pay annual dues, after earnest personal solicitation on the part of the Society officers, the Society should make up the amount from its general funds, and notify the individual of this action.