Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IL OCTOBER, 1915. No. 10. THE SPOKEN WORD. So much of stress has been laid on the statement Unspoken that "prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered Prayer or unexpressed," that we have come to accept that definition without qualification. While there is a subtle truth in this poetic expression, it is also true that words clothe the thought as the body covers the spirit. The universe might be filled with potential desires, wishes, hopes and aims, yet. unless the word focuses and makes of the thought a created force, there will be no resultant action, no impact of will upon matter. We are told in the seventh Lecture on Faith in Faith Comes the Doctrine and Covenants, that "when a man by Word. works by faith, he works by mental exertion instead of physical force. It is by words, instead of exerting his physical powers that every being works when he works by force. God said, 'Let there be light, and there was light. Joshua spake, and the great lights which God had created, stood still. Elijah commanded, and the heavens were stayed. Faith then works by words; and by these its mightiest works have been, and will be performed." What EDITORIAL. 465 clearer or more definite description of the manner in which the power of faith can be invoked and exercised, could be imagined than this pellucid statement. A word is a powerful thing. It is the tabernacle The Power of the thought; and when once called into being of the can be killed or destroyed only as the body is Spoken Word destroyed by natural process of change and absorption. Solomon's beautiful allusion to "words fitly spoken" is familiar to all. Isaiah tells us "the Lord has sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth ? and shall not return." The Lord sternly reminds us that "for every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words shalt thou be justified, and by thy words shalt thou be condemned." Not for our thoughts, for they may be strangled, but for the embodied thought, the tabernacled thought. St. John calls the Savior The Word, and says, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God^ ? and the Word was made flesh." Our words are a savor of life unto life, or a savor Words are a of death unto death. When your heart is crushed Living Force with loneliness, or your soul torn with loss, how comforting is a loving word, a tender caress. When words of unjust criticism flow out of our lips, how quickly they react in the distress of our body or the destruction of our peace. We may not know always why we suffer, nor why our desires are not given us. Perhaps it is sometimes because our desires are voiceless, wordless. The spoken word of prayer, the spoken word of gentleness to an enemy, the spoken word of comfort to the downcast ? all these help to flood our souls with light and peace. The spoken word is the switch which turns on the light, the "current" which feeds the engine, the match which lights the candle, the source of ignition and explosion. The power, the force is all there ? ^jt must be "touched off," so to speak; it must be ignited by the Word, the spoken, living, palpitating Word. Speak, then, the word of encouragement to your repentance, of hope to your sorrow, of rebuke to your temptation, and of petition to the Almighty. Make thy words, not thine enemies, and thine avengers, but thy servants and thy friends. By thy words shalt thou be judged. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. November 2, 1915. Work and Business. LESSON IL November 9. Theology and Testimony. KEEPING THE SABBATH DAY HOLY. The Lord has left no doubt in the testimony and teachings of former and latter-day prophets concerning the method and manner of observing the Sabbath day. Moses tells us in the first book of the Pentateuch that when the Lord had spent six days in framing and shaping the world, he rested from His labors on the seventh day, and hallowed it. The same writer tells us in the second book that of the ten vital laws which were written on the tables of stone, the fourth long and particular law concerned itself with the keeping of the Sabbath day. From the days of Adam, the covenant people were distinguished by their reverence for the Sabbath day. The sons of Japhet and Ham, regardless as they were of many other principles of the Gospel, kept this law intact, down the ages from Nimrod to Nebuchadnezzar. Nearly all of the ancient prophets deal more or less directly with the necessity of keeping, and the heinousness of breaking, this law. Isaiah devotes nearly a chapter to this, and uses these deeply significant words to sum up the whole matter: "If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words. "Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath The it. "Lord did not leave our latter-day prophet in ignorance spoken on the matter. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: "But remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. GUIDE LESSOXS. 467 "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing-, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or. in other words, that thy joy may be full. ''Verily, this is fasting and prayer; or in other words, rejoicing and prayer." As to technical points in the carrying out of these instructions, such as pleasure-riding, theater-going', concert-giving, feasting with friends, and social diversions of all kinds with attendant labors, no sane and reasonable woman can fail to rightly interpret these sayings of the prophets. Adults must square their lawbreaking with their own conscience ' but the mothers and grandmothers who belong to this Society should see to it that their own examples do not become a stumbling block to the youth of Israel. Many trifling acts may not be particularly wrong in themselves, but if the doing of certain things are inexpedient because of the example and inference given to weaker minds. Saints will refrain from even the appearance of evil. QUESTIONS. What is the Sabbath day? When and why was it instituted? What things do you consider right to do on that day? What might be done on week days that would be unlawful on the Sabbath? When do the Jews observe the Sabbath ^ Why do we observe the first day of the week as the Sabbath? Read the 1. 2, 3 verses of the second chapter of Genesis. Read the Fourth Commandment. Read the fifty-eighth chapter of Isaiah. Read the fifty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Genealogy. LESSON III. November 16. sources of information. Sources of Genealogical Information: 1. Personal information on hand. 2. Bibles; information on loose papers, temple forms, etc. 3. Information from living relatives and friends. 4. Writing to relatives, parish clerks, ministers, etc. (Forms for reply may be had at the Genealogical Society's office.) 5. Tradition and its uses; tombstone inscriptions. 6. Library research. Home and foreign. The student should get out all loose papers, old letters, old Temple books, and from these copy in a pencil note-book first, 
 These forms can l)e purchased for 10 cts. a dozen.