The Place of Music in Ward and Stake Relief Society. Lucy May Green. Chorister, Granite Stake. "Oh how we love to sing" the songs Of Zion's blest abode! They cause our hearts to burn with joy And help us on the road. There's comfort in their cheering words That warms the strangest heart. No other songs we hear today Can such delight impart." — R. B. Baird. The beautiful thought suggested by this verse should enter the spirit of every Relief Society member, and we should all use our influence and the talents with which we are blessed, to raise the standard of singing and music in our Relief Society gatherings. How can this be accomplished? First. — every Ward Society should have a chorister and an organist. These sisters should be chosen, not for musical ability alone, but musicians should be chosen who have bright, sunny natures, tact, punctuality and faithfulness. The chorister and organist should be prompt and diligent in attendance at meetings, and should understand how to read, play, and sing the songs of Zion. A good chorister is one who not only gives lip service, but whose heart is in the work and whose songs of the heart are acceptable unto Him who has said, — "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing on their heads." Second. — Relief Society choirs should be organized wherever it is possible — not to do all the singing, but to lead the singing in the Relief Society meetings. All should join in the song of praise to our Father. And those who are not blessed with a voice for singing, should follow the words and sing with their hearts that they too may merit the promised blessings. The Relief Society choir should meet regularly for practice; and at times, it would be well for the president to allow the chorister a half hour in the general meeting to practice with the society, that new hymns and songs may be learned. There are a number of ways to keep up interest in Ward Re
 lief Society choir work, and I would suggest a few: Use your Relief Society choir to furnish music at your ward Relief Society conferences, annuals and on Anniversary Day — 17th day of March. If the bishop gives a Sunday meeting to your organization, call on your choir to sing. Visit the homes of the aged and bedridden Saints, sing to them and bring sunshine into their lonely lives. Visit hospitals or infirmaries and render a suitable program. "Spend a day together in the House of the Lord." At funerals, often the ward choir cannot attend in full, as the men are busy on the farm or in the store or office. Here is a good field for a well-balanced Relief Society choir. I recall several funerals where the Relief Society choir has rendered beautiful and appropriate music. Have an occasional social with a program of national songs. We are a cosmopolitan people, and enjoy hearing and singing the "old country" tunes. At a recent choir social, we listened with equal pleasure to "Our mountain home so dear," "Annie Laurie," "Ye banks and braes," and a group of Swiss and German melodies. These are a few suggestions; but all have been tried out and found of use in the Granite stake. Third, — Stake choirs — each stake should be proud to own a stake Relief Society choir, to furnish music for the monthly officers' meetings, conferences, and conventions. Its membership should consist of all local choristers and choir members, and others who care to belong. Its field of labor is somewhat broader, but it can work along the same lines as the ward Relief Society choir. Fourth, — to have successful music in our Society, both stake and ward the songs chosen should be appropriate to the work of the day, and the theme of the meeting. Here is where the good judgment and tact of the chorister should be used, for a song can give the keynote of a meeting, or it can change the tone and almost spoil the spirit of the gathering. On one occasion, at a meeting held on the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and his brother, when the hearts of those present were full of sad memories and of love for the departed, instead of singing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," or the familiar song of praise and prayer, "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet," a thoughtless chorister announced, and the choir sang, — "Don't kill the little birds!" There is a popular idea that exists in the minds of the brethren, that the favorite song of the sisters is "Come all ye sons of Zion." While we do not sing this as often as of yore, in many of our societies, the choice of songs is limited to a very few old, familiar tunes. One reason for this, is that very few have their own books, and so many think that their singing days are over. The Lord says, "Sing and rejoice ye daughters of Zion." PLACE OF MUSIC IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 445 Let us wake up musically, and sing with spirit and understanding. "Let everything that hath breath, praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord." What shall we sing? From the days of 1830, when Emma Smith was commanded by the Lord to make a selection of sacred hymns, "to be used in my Church," up to the present day, we have had many collections of hymns and sacred songs, and all of them are good. But after ten years' experience in Relief Society choir work, I find no book better for Relief Society meetings than the new Sunday School Song Book. In it there are songs suitable for all occasions, and a large number of them express the real spirit and genius of our work. Choristers can select their lists. I suggest that hymns written by our gifted women be used — hymns written by Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, L. L. G. Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee, Susa Young Gates, Hannah Cornaby, and others. "Seek, and ye shall find" them. Rejoice in the Lord; again, I say unto you rejoice." SONGS OF THE SEASONS. Spring. 72 The opening buds of springtime. 250 Easter morning (Duet). 14 Catch the sunshine. Spring. April Relief Society Magazine, 1915. 37 Sowing. 195 Are we sowing seeds of kindness? 264 What shall the harvest be? Summer. 75 Earth with her ten thousand flowers. 169 Days of summer glory (Duet). 228 O bright smiling morning. 123 There is beauty in the forest. Autumn — "Wheat" meetings. 132 Waiting for the reapers. 168 To the giver of all blessings. Song of the wheat. February Relief Society Magazine, 1915. 138 Today, while the sun shines. Winter. 180 The Bright New Year. 116 The joy and the song. 143 Providence is over all. 
 111 Don't worry. 156 Should the changes of Life. 172 When the mists have rolled away. Relief Society Hymns. 196 Scatter sunshine. 197 Make the world brighter. 207 Have I done any good, etc. 222 Sunshine in your hearts. 265 Let us oft speak kind words. 239 Let's be kind to one another. 60 Ere the sun goes down. 53 Improve the shining moments. 146 Let us treat each other kindly. 88 Nay, speak no ill 178 Put your shoulder to the wheel. 35 Sweet is the work. 135 Come follow me. 208 Think gently of the erring one. 268 Jesus, I my cross have taken. 269 The Relief Society October number Relief Society Magazine. At Joseph Smith Meetings. 260 Father of life and light. 41 Oh how lovely was the morning. 24 Praise to the man. The Seer. (Psalmody), solo. 177 Sing, sing the wondrous story. 234 One hundred years. For Patriotic Occasions. 215 America. 22 Flag of the free. 18 Utah, we love thee. 202 Utah, the star of the West. 200 Proud? yes of our home, etc. GENEALOGICAL CLASSES FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. On Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, the Relief Society conference will be held in Salt Lake City. There will be four genealogical classes held, at 4:30 p. m. on Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, and Tuesday and Wednesday, October 5 and 6, in the Bishop's Building, under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society. The attendance at these classes will be optional. All will be heartily welcome. No delegates will be called. His Wife's Talents. By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "O, by the way, Kate, I met Blanche Norris this morning and she wanted me to ask you if you would play in an entertainment. The Relief Society is going to give next week to raise funds for our stricken Saints in Europe." Congratulating himself on his memory, Frank Ashton folded his napkin and pushed back his chair. "Me play in a public entertainment!" gasped his wife. For goodness sake, Frank, what did you tell her?" "Why, I told her I was sure you would be glad to do so and thanked her for giving you a chance. You don't get out enough, my dear. There is no need for women staying as closely at home as most of you do. You would make better wives if you didn't. I hope you won't miss an opportunity like playing in this entertainment." Kate swallowed hard to keep back the tears that suddenly sprang to her eyes. Why couldn't men understand? She had a mingled feeling of self-pity and resentment, but she said as calmly as possible, "Why, Frank, you ought to know that I could no more play the piano in a public entertainment than Kathryn could." It was the husband's turn to look surprised now. "Well, I should think you would hate to admit that all the time and money you spent on a musical education has been wasted," he remarked critically. "You know very well, Frank, that I have scarcely touched the piano since we were married and it doesn't take six years to forget a good deal of music." "Well, why haven't you been practicing up? You have a piano now." (He had surprised her with one on her birthday two weeks before.) "What do you suppose I sunk five hundred dollars in a piano for, anyway, if you are not going to do anything with it? You know I have felt guilty ever since we were married to think that you were giving up your music because I could not afford a piano for you. So the first five hundred I could clear above actual necessities went for that. That five hundred would have bought five shares in the new Irrigation Company and would have netted us a hundred dollars a year and maybe more. Not every man would miss a chance to go into a paying proposition like that just to give his wife something he thought she would enjoy, I thought you would at least appreciate my side of it." 
 "I do, Frank. It was lovely of you. But you don't know — I hardly have time to dust the piano, let alone to practice on it." Again Mr. Ashton looked his surprise. "Well, if I remember correctly when I first met you you were teaching fifty children, and still you found time to practice then, and to play in every entertainment that came along. It is the strangest thing to me how easily you women give up your talents and ambitions. You never see us men settling down so completely that we forget all the interests we had when we were boys. What would the world come to if we did? But you women — here you have only four children to take care of now, instead of fifty, and yet you say you haven't time to practice. Why, Kate you were the best pianist in the country when I married you. Why do you want to bury your talent? It is not right. I don't understand." This was no news to Kate. But how could she make him understand? When she married she had made up her mind to keep all the petty little worries of the home to herself. If the man earned the bread, she told herself, the woman should not trouble him with how it was to be mixed and baked and eaten. And so she had done her best to make her home attractive and cheerful, and had kept all her own difficulties and perplexities in the background. And now it seemed to Frank that the keeping of a five-roomed cottage and the care of four small children was a mere pastime. The man saw that somehow he had hurt his wife, so he mollified his tone as he continued. "I don't mean to be harsh, my dear, but I'm really in earnest. You have a wonderful talent in music and I don't want you to neglect it. You say you haven't time to practice. Let me give you a recipe to make time. Plan your work. Go at it systematically as we men do in our business. That's the secret of success every time. System. That's the whole thing in a nut shell. Try it, my dear, and I'm sure you'll find that you have time on your hands." Glancing at his watch, Mr. Ashton grabbed his hat, and hastily kissing his wife goodbye left the room. He poked his head in at the door a moment later, however, and exclaimed irritably, "What do you suppose those youngsters have been doing? They've driven my bicycle tires full of nails. It seems to me that they are always up to some such mischief and they ought to know better. They need a little systematic discipline. Now this means that I will be late to the office, and no doubt a new pair of tires as well. You must look after them a little closer, Kate, or I don't know what the little reprobates will come to." Kate sighed as she went to the front porch where the culprits, the five-year-old twins, Farrel and Barrel, a little subdued by their father's reprimand, were trying to think of some new outlet to