GUIDE LESSONS. 469 every possible name with dates, real or approximated; properly number each name, state the relationship to the heir; and after this has been done in the note-book, copy it carefully ? where it is pedigreed information of the dead ? into a Family Record for Temple use. This done, the student will wish to know where next to turn for further information. Correspondence with living relatives and friends, with parish priests, pastors, and clerks in the town from which the student emigrated, from or whence his parents and progenitors came ? these sources of information must next be tried. Letter writing, on this subject, is of a peculiar importance. The writer must exercise tact and wisdom. He or she must write courteously and fully, must state exactly what is wanted, and give enough information to elicit the data which is desked from the person who receives the letter. We suggest that such writers always enclose stamps for reply as well as the forms prepared by the Genealogical Society of Utah, a copy of which we give here. Your own data which you send for purpose of identification may be also written on this form. Write dozens, nay hundreds of times, if necessary. Write again and again and again, until your friends will answer you. Never give up until you have exhausted your stamps and patience. QUESTIONS. What are the sources of information? What should first be done by the genealogical student? To whom should letters be written? Let each student write a sample letter asking a relative or a parish clerk for genealogical information. Note. ? Such students as are familiar with the lessons, so far given, should now center their efforts on instructing and helping others. Home Ethics and Art. LESSON November 23. ETHICS. SYMPATHY. The tender, unselfish understanding which is called sympathy is one of the most Christ-like traits of the human heart. Jesus was eminently sympathetic and compassionate. Parents that are wisely sympathetic, gain and keep the respect and companionship of children forever. Children are not always sympathetic because few children are naturally mi selfish. It is a virtue that must be cultivated and properly controlled. Boys and 
 girls should be trained to be sympathetic, and especially to father and mother and to the aged members of the household. Sympathy begets confidence and inspires loves. It is woman's chief charm. The girl who is sympathetic is always well supplied with friends and lovers, for companionship is second nature to her. A sympathetic officer in the Relief Society, who has lacked education, attracts more members, inspires more courage, cheers more downcast souls, and does more good than the best trained woman could possibly do if she were cold, selfish and harshly unsympathetic in her spirit. Sympathy is the key that unlocks the door of the human heart. Children should be taught sympathy for animals. They usually love their pets but are not always considerate of them. A child should not be permitted to maul and abuse cats, dogs or any other animals. We should cultivate a large sympathy with the suffering of our neighbors, and with the world outside our own doors. The woman who loves music, beauty and harmony is usually a tenderly sympathetic soul. There is also a danger that sympathy be bestowed unwisely. When children need to be disciplined mothers must control their sympathetic natures ? as God does when we need and receive His chastening. Children should never be laughed at; some supremely sensitive children are crushed and their future lives blighted by ridicule and a lack of sympathy from their parents and brothers and sisters. The tenderest note in all sympathetic natures is usually struck by deformity and disease, but little children should be taught this delicate compassion because they are inclined to ridicule what they do not understand. Women and men of highly sensitive natures sometimes make fools of themselves by offering maudlin sympathy to wicked men, to condemned murderers and other guilty souls. One is distressed to know anybody must suffer, but we should not make of our sympathy a vice instead of a virtue. Extreme sympathy predisposes to nervous troubles, especially when the person is always sorry for himself. Sympathize with others? yes, when sympathy is wise and true, but rarely offer yourself the weakening consolation of self-pity. Sympathy is to love what the fragrance is to the flower ? its essence and spirit. "Put yourself in his place." Understand others' burdens through the rare alchemy of pure sympathy. Cultivate sympathy and your friends will cultivate you. QUESTIONS. 1. What is sympathy? 2. When should parents sympathize with children? 3. How should children treat their parents and the aged? GUIDE LESSONS. 471 4. How can they be taught to do this? 5. What makes the plainest girl attractive? 6. What would you say about false sympathy, or sentimentality? 7. How can you cultivate sympathy? ART. LORUS PRATT. (a) Describe Pratt's landscape painting of the Shepherd and his Flock. (b) Tell of the life of Lorus Pratt. (c) What troubles did his mother foresee in the artist's career? (d) Who were his parents and what work did they do? (e) Should such men as Lorus Pratt be encouraged? Why? (f) Do you love the landscape? (g) What would you like best to paint? What does Pratt prefer as to subject? (h) Have you seen any of his paintings? (i) His best work is in the Salt Lake Temple. Have you seen that beautiful work? (j) Who encouraged him to go abroad? EDWIN EVANS. Evans, teacher of the Fine Arts in the University of Utah, is now refreshing himself at the Fountain Head of Art in America, New York City. (a) How and by whom was the artist discovered in Evans? (b) Of what special benefit is Evans' critical disposition? (c) In what theme is this artist most at home? (d) Have you visited the Art gallery designed by Evans at the University? If so, describe it. (e) What qualities difficult to secure can Evans get in his color effects? H. L. A. CULMER. Have you seen any of the pictures by the late H. L. A. Culmer? Describe one of them. (a) What subjects did he mostly paint? (b) Have you visited the Holmes' Art Gallery in which much of Culmer's work is exhibited? (c) What public work did Mr. Culmer do? (d) Who have been his loyal patrons among the wealthy? Answer. Colonel and Mrs. Emery Holmes. (e) Who is his wife? (f) Is there an artist in your town? In your family? What can you do to encourage them? (g) Why do we need artists? The Relief Society. Words and Music by John M. Chamberlain. Moderato. [Musical notation follows with lyrics about a midnight call from a widow's humble home and the Relief Society's response] CHORUS All hail to thee O noble band, Relief Society, Whose earnest zeal and kindly deeds, Live in eternity. 
 UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Southern Pacific The Road of a Thousand Wonders The Standard for Safety Service Scenery Comfort Convenience and Courtesy Don't Travel Haphazardly Plan Your Trip It Is Less Expensive To Travel Right Do you want full and accurate information from those who know? Write, or better still, come into our new offices and have your trip to the TWO BIG EXPOSITIONS and CALIFORNIA arranged by those who have spent years of travel and study on the Pacific Coast. We Are Paid to Answer Questions and Like Our Work For itineraries and beautiful literature on California write or call on C.L.McFAUL, District Passenger Agt. Second Floor, Walker Bank Building SALT LAKE CITY It's FREE send for the little book "Cameos" Three thousand words on Cameos Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos The only book of its kind published W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Convenience and Courtesy Every man in this bank will be glad to help you, in every way possible. Our men do not work for the bank but with the bank. In fact you might say they are part of the bank. If there is anything about banking you do not understand, they will be glad to explain it to you. A bank could not be more conveniently located ? right in the heart of the business center? corner of Broadway and Main ? with an entrance from both streets. One of the lightest and best ventilated institutions in the city. An ideal bank to do business with. Step in and meet us. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah. The Demand For Fresh Butter ? Is satisfied with two brands, made from pure cream from the country and recognized as the peers of all butters ? "Four-in-One" and "Blanchard". The first is wrapped in separate quarter-size prints. When you take one from the package the remaining three are protected with their clean parchment paper covering. "Blanchard" is a full pound print. You can depend on either of these butters, from any grocer. MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY 11 Creameries In 7 States. Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Instruction begins Monday, September 20th. Registration of students, and entrance examinations on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, September 16th, 17th, 18th. Beautiful grounds, fine buildings and equipment, and specialists in all departments are AT YOUR SERVICE. Courses are offered that prepare for almost any vocation in addition to giving a broad and liberal education ? a preparation for a life as well as a living. The credits of the University of Utah are accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States. Full information sent upon request. University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The ideal summer shoes for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc. Cheap, Serviceable, Comfortable. "Mountaineer" and "The Leader" Overalls don't rip; they are guaranteed for wear. The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West ARE REACHED VIA Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River and Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts Excursions North September 11 and 25 Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah