				Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1904		No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Salt Lake Stake Conference..............................	73
Program U. S. D. R., 1904-1905.......................	74
Women Physicians.............................................	75
Lady Warwick and Daughter.............................	75
D. R. Meetings ..................................................	75
Roman Tea Party................................................	75 
R. S. Reports .....................................................	76
Resolutions of Respect......................................	78
In Memoriam.....................................................	78
Obituary.............................................................	78
Mothers Work....................................................	79
The International Council of Women................	79
EDITORIAL—The World in Turmoil...............	76
	Annual Meeting, Banquet and Ball...........	76
	Febuary 29, 1904.......................................	77
	An Old Ladies’ Party.................................	77
	Birthday Anniversary.................................	77
POETRY—When the Lilac Comes...................	73
	My Sister Spirit.........................................	75


WHEN THE LILAC COMES.
When the lilac comes and the young birds sing,
And the violet shows her purple wing,
And the primrose coppice is fair to see,
Like a yellow cloud in an em’rald sea—
Oh, my heart leaps up like a wild bird free—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes, with its wealth of white,
And helio'rope radiance all alight.
With a breath as sweet as the new-mown hay
That rests in twilight at hush of day,
And the acacia uncurls outside my room
With a promise of future life and bloom—
Then my heart like a bird, begins to sing—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes and the sun looks down
On laburnum chains and the snowdrop’s gown,
And the pink-eyed daisies look up to the skies.
And there’s laughter of winds in place of sighs,
And the dimpled brooklet that sings as it flows
’Neath the bramble bush and the budding rose—
Than my spirit laughs like a child at play—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes—in the garden wide
There’s many a blossom the wall besi
That show a glimmer of pink-streaked white
That peeps from its cover to find the light;
And a butterfly bright is sometimes seen.
Like a golden star, near the ivy green;
And from the root of the old oak tree
Tha daffodils golden smile up at me—
My heart is as glad as a heart can be—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes, our hearts are athrill
With the voice of the cuckoo adown the hill;
And, lo, it is spring in t e gleaming air,
And, lo, it is spring in our spirits fair
And my heart o’erflows as the brook o’erflows
When it hurries away to find the rose;
And my heart o’erflows as a golden sea
Of sunshine over a cowslip lea.
Oh! the world is as fair as a world can be—
	When the lilac comes!
					M. A. Beckingham.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
was held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 5, Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon
presiding. Singing, ‘‘How firm a founda-
tion,” etc. Prayer by Sister Elizabath
Paul. Singing, solo, ‘‘Only Remembered
for What We have Done,” etc. Roll call,
minutes of previous conference read and
accepted. Counselor S. J. Cannon made an
opening address, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and referred to the noble ex-
ample and heroism of President Horne,
paid a loving tribute to her worth and re-
gretted she could not be present with the

[Column 2]
sisters with whom she had labored so long.
Reports were given from 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
13th, 14th and 15th wards. Solo, ‘‘Some
Day,” by Sister Maggie C. Hull.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde of the
General Presidency, addressed the sisters;
referred to the good condition financially,
of the Society in the stake as manifest by
the reports given, felt the change in the
Stake would be a good thing, strengthen-
ing the Church, giving the young a chance
to come forward and take part, each one
developing himself or herself, as well as
helping one another; referred to the faith-
fulness of President Horne, how the Lord
had blessed her always in giving wise
counsel; ‘:we should learn to control our-
selves, we should set good examples; this
life is a proving place for us all; be careful
of our children in all things; be careful how
we judge one another, but be charitable to
each other; we should pray for our presi-
dent.”
	Reports, 16th,17th, 18th, 19th, 20th
wards. Meeting adjourned by singing
‘‘We thank Thee, O God,” etc. Prayer
by Sister Julia C Howe.
	Afternoon session, Counselor S. J Can-
non presiding. Singing, ‘‘Now let us re-
joice.” etc. Prayer, Sister Mary A. C.
Lambert. Singing, quartette; minutes
read and accepted. — Address from Presi-
dent M Isabella Horne to the sisters, read
by Sister Annie Wells Cannon,
PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE’S
			ADDRESS.
My Beloved Sisters:
	This conference is, as you all know, the
last conference of the Relief Society of what
is now the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and
the time seems to me, most opportune to
send you my heartfelt greeting, and to
express to you some of my feelings in the
form of an address, reminiscent of our past,
relating to our present and concerning our
future as Relief Society workers
	In some respects this is a sad occasion,
for it means a parting of our ways: Here-
after while still engaged, I hope, in the
same line of work, it will be under differ-
ent  fficers and different names, and we
will meet no more in the same capacity but
hope to meet with you all agaiu in what
ever stakes you may be. I feel attached to
you, every one, with the most tender feel
ings, and shall always look upon your work
with great interest, feeling towards the new
stakes like a mother to her children as they
leave the home and begin making homes
for themselves. There is mingled in my
heart, with the sadness of this occasion,
great joy and satisfaction when I recall the
wonderful work that has been done and the
great amount of good accomplished by you,
my sisters, in thi[-] organization.
	Too much praise cannot be given you for
your untiring labors. Out of nothing but
your own energy and hard work you have
builded granaries, storehouses and meeting-
houses. By your gentle miuisterings to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the

[Column 3]
needy your great helpfulness to the bishops
in building up their wards, mingled with
your wonderful testimonies of the faith,
you are indeed rich, and great will be your
reward and many the blessings that will
come to you for your labors in these re-
spects.
	Relief Society work has been a part of my
life for the past sixty years or more, for I
attended the meetings of the first Relief
Society organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith in Nauvoo and I wish to testify to
you, my sisters, that Joseph Smith was in-
spiried of God when he effected the organ-
zation of the Relief Society, and it is one
of the most important parts of the Church.
It is so recorded in the book of ‘‘The law
of the Lord.”
	At the meeting in the Tabernacle when
the general organization was made and Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow was made president,
Brother John Taylor, then the presiding
officer of the Church, had Brother L. John
Nuttall bring to the meeting this precious
book and read from its pages to those pres-
ent, thus showing that this organization of
the sisters was of great importance, for it
was ordained by the Lord; and it is not
sufficient, my sisters, that your names are
on the books as members only, and that
occasionally you respond when called upon
with some slight donation; for we will be 
judged from the books. Zion must work
most diligently, both spiritually and prac-
tically. It is the divine purpose of this or-
ganization that we may scatter the fruits of
our labors where they are needed.
	Twenty-six years ago last December,
while spending a few days at the home of
Sister Elizabeth Howard in Big Cotton-
wood, in company with Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and others, in a
preliminary way the organization of this
stake was talked over. I recall this instance
now, because Big Cottonwood, as well as
all the wards of the new stakes south of
the city, now Granite and Jordan were a
part of this stake, and there was then some-
years later in Salt Lake Stake more than
fifty branches.
	It was on the 22nd of December, 1877,
that a special meeting was called to organ-
ize the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society.
Bishop Edward Hunter was present with
others of the breth en. Sister Eliza R.
Snow presided. It was then I was called
to be your president and from that day to
the present it has been my most earnest de-
sire to encourage the sisters, both at our
conferences, which we have always held
every three mouths, and during my visits
to the different wards, to continue in th s
great, benevol nt work with all the energy
they could command
	In looking over our present condition we
have much indeed to be thankful for. Our
reports show us to be in a very prosperous
condition. Eight of our wards own Relief
Society halls, and eight own granaries. We
have considerable means on hand, both
cash and merchandise and I am pleased to
state are all th[-] time disbursing m ans to
help others. Through these organizations
we have emigrated many people to Zion,


[Column 1]
found homes for the orphan and the friend-
less and have contributed liberally towards
the building and maintenance of the Tem-
ple and houses of worship, and have, I be-
lieve, endeavored to promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. Towards the Woman’s Build-
ing the Salt Lake Stake was assessed two
thousand dollars, and this we have more
than paid; the general treasurer states we
have given two thousand, one hundred and
fifty-six dollars and sixteen cents. Still
some of the wards are delinquent. The
amount was proportioned among the differ-
ent wards and some have paid in more than
required while others are behind. The
stake record, therefore, may look all right,
more than satisfying, yet, my sisters, do
not allow your wards to go out of the stake
in debt. See to it, each one of you, that
the required sum is made up before you be-
come a part of another stake.
	While our officers’ meetings have been
very, well attended, and great interest has
been shown, our conferences have been
rather discouraging in this respect. The
members do not seem to feel the necessity
of attending and think the society will be
all right if the president or some officer goes
so as to get instruction. Now, my sisters,
this is not right. In order to keep in
touch with the work of this organization,
and receive the benefits thereof, you must
attend your meetings and I hope the aver-
age attendance in your soeiety will here-
after improve. As it is our record shows
only, out of an enrollment of about eighteen
hundred an attendance of six hundred. I
do not wish to find fault on this occasion,
and only mention these things in a kindly
way to urge upon you greater diligence in
your future work. Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the fisrt society of sisters in this last
dispensation. He gave the sisters much
valuable instruction and predicted a great
future for the Relief Society. As soon as
possible after the location of the Saints in
these valleys, President Brigham Young
counseled tho organizing of these societies
in all the stakes of Zion and also predicted
for the sisters a great future. Today we
see these predictions fulfilled, for the Relief
Society is one of the largest and grandest
organizations of women in the world and
by the united efforts of the sisters the good
accomplished cannot be estimated. Con-
tinue, my dear sisters, in your good works
help each other with kind, friendly feelings,
with faith and prayer. Try to promote all
the interests of Zion, by sustaining home
industries and home literature. Remem-
ber the EXPONENT is the organ of our or-
ganization and enlightens you in regard to
Relief Society work. Read the Church
works and carry their teachings in your
own lives and instil them into the lives of
your children. Do not be indifferent about
storing and caring for the grain. Remem-
ber we were commanded by our beloved
leader, Brigham Young, to make this a
part of our work, and I feel to urge upon
you the necessity of attending to this matter
for I judge by the signs of the times, that
before long we will be called upon to open
our granaries, and great will be our shame
if they are empty, or if we have neglected
this duty. We were told through revelation
to save the grain against a day of famine.
Other prophecies are being fulfilled, why
should this one not? Let us be prepared,
sisters for this day, and let the women of
Zion be prepared for all emergencies and
not be like the foolish virgins with their

[Column 2]
empty lamps, but be ready and waiting in
full faith for the coming of the bridegroom.
	Now, as we are about to separate in our
work in this stake, take with you, my dear
sisters, my heartfelt blessing. May the
peace and the blessing of God be in the
hearts and habitations of all who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord.
	Your sister and colaborer in ihe Gospel,
			M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
gave some instructions and expressed her
feelings upon Relief Society work; exhorted
the sisters to live up to the principles of
the Church and felt that good was being
accomplished all over the world through
this grand society, spoke tenderly of Sister
Horne and their long acquaintance and as-
sociation together and felt she had been a
wise woman.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon who had
been long in the stake with Sister Horne,
said she had enjoyed being with the sisters,
felt that the change in the stake would be
a great benefit to the young in giving them
something to do in the Relief Society work;
she had been so many years associated in
the work that she felt sad in having the
change take place; urged all to be honest
and diligent in doing all they could to roll
on the work.
	Sister E. B. Wells paid a glowing tribute
to President Horne, referred to her mani-
fold labors for half a century and more,
she having been a member of the Society in
Nauvoo; spoke of her great activity in
many ways and many places, her travels at
home and abroad, and gave a sort of his-
tory of the Salt Lake Stake organization,
its officers a[-]d what had been accomplished
in many directions, home industries, etc.
	Solo, Sister M. C. Hull. Sister Clarissa S.
Williams said our interests were still the
same to our fellow laborers, expressed her
love for Sister Horne and many sisters she
had become acquainted with, thought there
was a great work for us to do; responsibility
is a great benefit, it causes us to make ex-
tra efforts when we otherwise would not,
thought the society would increase more
rapidly in the future, double what it had
done in the past fifty years.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings said she
missed Sister Horne, felt to rejoice in the
Gospel, referred to President Smith being
absent from us; she believed all would be
well, the change in the stake would be a
benefit to all.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder: “We have love
for one another, referred to the ordeal of
President Smith, felt she knew the influ-
ence of such conditions for she had wit-
nessed such trials herself she realized the
importance of Relief Society work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards said she remem-
bered Sister Horne many years gone by,
she had tried to take part in the society in
her young life, thought we should pray for
Sister Horne.
	Sister A. W. Cannon read a notice of a
Nurse Class to commence in September,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor.
	Sister E. B. Wells made some explana-
tions in regard to the National and Inter-
national Councils and moved that the as-
sembly send love and greeting to President
Horne, and by a rising vote express thanks
to those who had assisted in helping to
make the conference a success. Mentioned
Prof. C. J. Thomas and others who had
been helpful, Sister Horne’s counselors,
aids, secretaries and treasurers, and all who

[Column 3]
had labored so efficiently during the admin-
istration of President Horne. The motion
was seconded by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert and all on the stand and carried unan-
imously by a rising vote. Singing by a
quartette. Counselor Sarah J. Cannon an-
nounced the conference would be adjourned
forever, so far as she knew.
	Brief remarks in loving words for Presi-
dent Horne by Sister Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, who also pronounced the benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
		AMELIA F. WARDOUP, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


PROGRAM U. S. D. R., 1904—1905.
		MARCH 16TH.
Alexander Hamilton, Lucy E. W. Smith,
Story relating to the trial of Aaron Burr.
Sarah F. Smith. Patriotic poem or hymn,
name of writer, Maria Y. Dougall.
		APRIL 16TH.
La Fayette, Isabel M. W. Sears. Story
relating to topic, Mira Y. Rossiter. Patri-
otic poem or hymn, name of writer, Julia
F. Lund.
			MAY 16.
Nathan Hale, Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Story relating to topic, Catharine Wells.
Patriotic poem or hymn, name of writer,
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	SEPTEMBER 16TH.
Anthony Wayne, and the capture of
Stony Point, Ella W. Hyde. Story relat-
ing to the Battle of Monmouth and Mollie
Pitcher, Almira H. M. De Wolf. Patri-
otic poem or hymn, name of writer, Eliza-
beth R. Wright.
		OCTOBER 16TH.
John Quincy Adams, Mary A. H Can-
non. Story relating to topic, Emily H. C.
Willey. Patriotic poem, name of writer,
Carol Cannon.
		NOVEMBER 16TH.
Incidents of the occupation of Philadel-
phia by the British, Clarissa S. Williams.
Story relating to Thanksgiving, Martha R.
Groo. Patriotic poem or hymn, name of
writer, Clarissa Y. Spencer.
		DECEMBER 16TH.
Paul Jones and the U. S. Navy, Mary
R. Webber. Story relating to topic, M.
Mabelle Snow. Patriotic poem, name of
writer, Diana F. Rich.
			JANUARY.
Roger Williams, Alice M. Horne. Story
relating to Ann Hutchinson, Eliza Tit-
comb. Patriotic poem, name of writer,
Emmeline B. Wells.
		FEBRUARY l6TH.
Martha Washington and history of the
White House, Florence S. Sears. Patri-
otic poem, name of writer, Emily Y. Claw-
son. Story relating to topic, Ann Lyman
King.


Mrs. Rebecca Douglass Lowe of Atlanta,
ex-president of the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs, was married on St. Valen-
tine’s day to Mr. George Gunton, editor of
Gunton’s Magazine. She will reside in
Washington, D. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY SISTER SPIRIT.
TO EMMELINE B. WELLS.

Oh methinks in worlds afar, sweet sister spirit
	mine—
We knew and loved each other with tenderness
	divine;
That hand in hand together we roamed Elysian
	grove.
Heart beating close to heart with pure supernal
	love.

As children of one Father, our great eternal One!
We waited there His pleasure, we lingered near
	His throne;
Until at length He called us, angel spirits to this
	earth.
To obtain our mortal bodies, thus to gain im-
	mortal birth.

How infinite His wisdom, how great His good-
	ness too.
That still we can together His wondrous works 
	pursue.
That we congenial spirits may labor in His
	cause,
Thus gain eternal blessings by obeying sacred
	laws.

When life’s mission we have finished—our weak-
	nesses o’ercome.
With affection undiminished, may we meet again
	at Home.
May our crowns of endless glory with unceasing
	lustre shine
As reward for this probation, O, sweet sister spirit
	mine.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.
February 29, 1904.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.
	At a recent meeting of the Historical
Society of Lynn, Mass., Mrs. May L. Shel-
don read a paper on “The Doctors of
the Old Town.” She said that the first
doctor recorded in the history of Lynn was
Deborah Armitage, who in early colonial
times trudged from Salem through Lynn
to Malden with her bag of drugs, herbs
and lotions, ministering to the sick of all
classes. For over thirty years she gath-
ered herbs from the pastures, roadside
and swamp, made her salves and lotions,
and put her healing powers to use. She
was devoted to duty, and yielded her life
to its demands. In January, 1860, there
came a heavy snowfall which lasted for sev-
eral days and covered her humble cottage.
When the neighbors came to dig away the
snow, they found her absent. A search
revealed her stiffened body in the snow
near Saugus, where she had been on her
way to minister to a patient.
	Madame Maria Martin in Le Journal des
Femmes for February, has a brilliant arti-
cle on “The Education of the Father.”
She points out that the world has had
abundant preaching on the duties of moth-
ers and it is now time that the attention
of fathers should be called to their duties
to their children, especially in the way of
setting them a good example.


LADY WARWICK AND DAUGHTER.
	Rarely would a wedding in “high life”
abroad concern the readers of this paper,
but an exception would certainly be made
in the recent marriage of Lady Marjorie to
Viscount Helmsley. Marjorie Gervile, as
her mother wished her to be known during
her school days, is the daughter of the Coun-
tess of Warwick, long regarded as the
most beautiful woman in England, and
known the world over for her participa-
tion in industrial and social reforms. As
owner and editor of an agricultural paper,
speaker at socialist congresses, founder of


trades, schools and shops for young women
and in many other ways, she has identified
herself with the interests of the workers.
The latest of the philanthropic schemes is
the purchase of the “Saracen’s Head,” an
inn near her country place in Essex, which
she has now converted into a temperance
tavern, it is said greatly to the benefit of
the surrounding country as it was the only
place in the country where liquor could be
procured.
In the education of her daughter Lady
Warwick has proceeded according to
the same democratic ideals that she advo-
cates for others. Marjorie was sent to the
public schools in childhood and allowed to
play with village children, while at her
home she had a garden and poultry to
care for, a Jersey cow to milk, and was
taught practical dairying and agriculture
and all outdoor sports. Lady Marjorie was
presented at court last year and was at
once regarded as the prettiest peeress in
the kingdom and now she is married to the
heir of one of the historic earldoms of Eng-
land with all the pomp and circumstance
befitting her ancestral home, grand old
Warwick Castle, which no person visits
England without seeing if possible. King
Edward sent the bride a valuable present
with an autograph letter with best wishes
for her happiness, and in this we all may
join, and those who remember Lady War-
wick’s participation in the reception given
by her sister, the Duchess of Sutherland,
to the International Council of Women will
give the heartiest amen.	Ex.


D.R. MEETINGS.
WASHINGTON’S BITHDAY.	
	The Daughters of the Revolution met
Wednesday, February 22, in the EXPONENT
office, at 11 a.m., to commemorate the an-
niversary of General George Washington's
birthday. The Regent, Mrs. Isabel M. W.
Sears, presided. Each one present brought
some sentiment, original or selected, or
spoke a few words as a tribute to the mem-
ory of one whom all true Americans delight
to honor; the stars and stripes were dis-
played conspicuously and other decorations
adorned the walls of the room. Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, herself an enthusiastic
Virginian, felt proud of her state as the
home of this great and good man, and eulo-
gized his life and labors; at the close of
the reading of sentiments and remarks by
others, including some visitors, Mrs. Mary
McNaughtan and Mrs. Mary Smith Wim-
mer, also Mrs. C. Willis Schow, Mrs. C.
H. Y. Spencer read a poem on General
Washington, written by Miss Josephine
Spencer, which added greatly to the spirit
of the occasion. The meeting opened and
closed with prayer.

	On Wednesday, March 17, the ladies of
the D. R. held their regular monthly meet-
ing, at 3 p.m., in Room 509 Templeton
Building. The Regent in the chair. After
the opening exercises and reading of min-
utes, considerable business was transacted,
and the program of the day carried out.
Mrs. John Henry Smith gave a very enter-
taining and valuable paper on Alexander
Hamilton, which was greatly appreciated,
and she was followed by Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith on Aaron Burr; this paper brought
out many striking attributes of Aaron
Burr’s character hitherto unknown to the


ladies of the Society. Mrs. John D. Spen-
cer read a letter from Mr. Burr’s daughter
to her father, showing her devotion to and
admiration of this man of destiny, reveal-
ing the strong affection between father and
child. Mrs. Spencer also read some ex-
tracts from Blennerhassett, showing phases
of the man’s character entirely different to
the general opinion. The discussion of the
papers was quite edifying. Adjourned un-
til April 16, to convene at Mrs. T. G. Web-
ber’s, 131 Second Sireet. Prayer by the
chaplain.


ROMAN TEA PARTY.
	Those who know Mrs. Gaffney, late
president of the N. C. W. of the U. S.,
will be pleased to see the following notice
of a five o'clock Tea given by her recently
in the historic city of Rome, where she is
spending the winter, her daughter, Miss
Jayta, is with her there. Miss Humph-
reys is the granddaughter of the famous
late Dr. Humphreys who visited Salt Lake
in the spring of 1898 and wrote a book en-
titled "A Flight in Spring." His little
granddaughter was with him on that jour-
ney.
—Ed.
	"A recent issue of L'Italie, a leading
daily of Rome, contains an account of a
social affair in which Americans well
known in Salt Lake participated. It was a
five o'clock tea given by Madame St. John
Gaffney at the Hotel Quirinal. The
charming hostess did the honors with the
most exquisite amiability, assisted by
Chevalier S[--] T. John Gaffney and Miss
Humph[--]ys. Those present were according
to the Roman newspaper, 'the Cardinaux
Seraphin et Vincent Vannutelli, Mgr.
Staniero, protonot aire apostolique; M. de
Navenne, minister of France; the Countess
Mlle Bevilacqua; M. de Jagow, conseiller
de l'ambassade d'Allemague; M. Multodo,
conseiller de l'ambassade d' Espague pres
le Saintsiege; le consul general des Etats
Unis et Mme. de Castro, la baronne Coletti,
le major Edwards, attache militaire de l'
ambassade des Etats Unis avec Miss Ed-
wards, Mrs. Aldrich, M. F. D. et Miss
Crimmins. Mlle. Vannutelli, Mrs. Magee,
Mrs. Stewart, M. et Mrs. Simmons, Mrs.
et Miss Robinson, Mrs. et Miss Mac Cor-
nick, le major et me Serra, Mrs. Vedder,
Mrs. Chester Wecks. don Lelio Orsini, le
compt Bojani, le pere Whitmee, le marquis
Faa di Brnno, le comte Oddi Baglioni, le
comte Gnoli, le marquis Mac Swiney, le
marquis Maestri Molinari, M. Galileo Van-
nutelli, le comte Falconieri di Carpegna,'
and a large number [-]f diplomats and young
people of fashion."


Among all the great people who have
been born in February, Mrs. Isabella
Beecher Hooker is one of the most notable.
On Monday, Feb. 22, she attained the age
of eighty-two and the fact was duly regarded
by the citizens of Hartford, where she has
lived for fifty-four years. Mrs. Hooker is
the last of the distinguished sons and
daughters of Rev. Lyman Beecher, D. D.,
and all of those who gathered lovingly
around Mrs. Hooker at the family banquet
were of the younger generations, children
and grandchildren, nephews and nieces.
Mrs. Hooker is still in active suffrage work
and says she feels as if she should live to 
be a hundred years old. 			Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
[-]ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH MARCH, 1904


[Column 1]
	THE WORLD IN TURMOIL.
	Although there has been a very decided
movement during the last few years for
universal peace, and many nations have
expressed themselves in favor of the Czar’s
manifesto; yet the indications at present
are that the day is far off when war shall
cease to be. The war recently begun in
the East may spread and continue for a
long period of time; already the devasta-
tion it has caused is fearful to contemplate
the sacrifice of human life most of all; and
famine and desolation ever follow in the
track of war.
	Both Russia and Japan are strong in
their own way, and it is not at all likely
that either will surrender while men and
ships and ammunition last, unless some
foreign power interferes and takes matters
in hand. A few thousand men more or
less slain will not affect Russia’s population
much; there are plenty more to be shot
down or blown up, and their lives are so
hard and barren of pleasure that they have
not much to lose, and in a sense they have
no choice in the matter, for strictly speak-
ing, they are serfs. To be sure, they have
great mili ary commanders (with unpro-
nouncabie names), who are skilled in all the
arts of war, and who are trained in military
maneuvering, and know when and why
and how to attack an enemy or circumvent
the foe perhaps, but the Japanese are fight-
ing more for their country’s protection,
and the Lord may be on their side, and
give them the victory. At any rate, there
is greater sympathy for the “Japs” than for
the Russians, perhaps because they are such
an artistic class of people and seem to
have made rapid progress in many ways
during the last half century; all that we
can say at this distance away is merely
speculative as to facts or results, and time
alone can determine, but one does know
that the havoc of war is terrible. 
It may be that other great nations may
be drawn in to protect their commercial in-
terests, which is scarcely a laudable pretext
for war. unless the protection of life depends
upon it. Let us hope and pray that Amer-
ca may have no lot or portion in this dread-
ful conflict, and though we have not in
America at the present time a war on our
hands, we have many disturbances of one
kind and another, such as labor strikes and
things of that kind, and it does create a
commotion and a sort of unrest that is not
wholesome or uplifting. In peaceful Utah,

[Column 2]
where plenty abounds and one would think
there might be peace, there is a ferment
brewing, and men, and even women, seem
disposed to stir up strife and if possible
cause persecution that may stagnate busi-
ness and bring about hard times unneces-
sarily. Utah was prospering, and the attack
upon her people is wholly uncalled for and
without cause.
	Without entering into the controversy,
we declare that Utah is loyal to the United
States, and has proved her loyalty when
men were needed to go forth to battle, and
it is to be hoped the plans of those who are
plotting to destroy the peace and prosp rity
of this new and flourishing State will come
to naught; that at least here in these moun-
tain vales, apart from war and its horrors,
the people who made ‘‘the desert blossom
as a rose,” may be secure in the possession
of the rights of free citizens of the great
country of the United States, for the free-
dom of which many of their forefathers
fought and bled, and they are not aliens,
but loyal and free citizens, who should have
all the rights and privileges of this free
Republic of America.
Peace, O Peace, when will the nation,
	Lift its eyes and understand
How God holdeth all creation
	In the hollow of His hand.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL MEETING, BANQUET AND BALL
		GRANITE STAKE.
	On the 17th of March of this present
month the Relief Society officers of Granite
Stake celebrated the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Illinois, in a very happy way.
Committees of ladies had been previously
appointed to take charge of special matters
and President Emma S. Woodruff and her
very efficient Board superintended the
whole, and it proved a grand success in the
entire proceedings from first to last.
	About six or seven hundred of the peo-
ple of the several wards assembled in the
large meeting room. President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding, both her counselors
were on the stand, also the secretary, treas-
urer and some invited guests, President
Frank Y Taylor and Counselor Edwin
Bennion. The stands were prettily decor-
ated with flowers and presented a hand-
some appearance. Several veteran sisters
were brought forward from the audience
and given seats of honor on the platform in
full view of audience. Sisters Margaret
P. Young, Elizabeth Pixton (since deceased)
Relief C. Atwood and Sarah B. Gibson.
	Meeting opened with singing by the con-
gregation, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Patriarch John Cook, singing,
“Redeemer of Israel” President Emma
S. Woodruff made a brief but suitable ad
dress of welcome, referred to the day six-
ty-two years before when the Prophet
Joseph Smith had organized the first wom-
an’s society of which we have any knowl-
edge with a few sisters, eighteen in all and
from that small beginning had grown the
great socety with branches all over the
world. The speaker expressed her pleas-
ure in seeing so many assemb'ed and wel-
comed them in a very happy manner.
	A few remarks by other speakers and ex-
pressions of good will, and a duet sweetly
sung by two little girls, Buelah Woodruff
and Cathie McLelland, without accompani-
ment, as there had been an accident to the

[Column 2]
organ, this caused some changes also in
the musical program.
	Sister E. B. Wells referred to the little
meeting held in Masonic Lodge Room where
the society was born, and how magnific-
ently it had grown and spread abroad since
that day. Sister Wells eulogized the lead-
ers of the movement, some who had passed
away and others who were still living;
mentioned President Bathsheba W. Smith
as the only one now alive who had been
present at that memorable meeting. Sister
Armeda Snow Young recited in a very
pathetic and dignified manner the poem
composed by Sister Eliza R. Snow on the
Death and Funeral ceremonies of President
Brigham Young.
	President Frank Y. Taylor made some
interesting remarks upon the labors of the
sisters and praised their efforts and com-
mended their ministrations among the needy
and distressed in the various wards in the
stake; realized they had been a blessing
to the bishops and the authorities; blessed
them in their labors for the future and en-
couraged them to persevere
	Counselor Edwin Bennion spoke a few
minutes and urged the sisters to perfect
union that more might be accomplished,
felt to enjoy the spirit of the gathering of
the people on such occasions, thought we
must be one and come into a unity of the
faith in order to make greater progress.
	Sister Wealthy Richards Clark, one of the
aids in Davis Stake, expressed her interest in
Relief Society work and felt she could learn
something about mothers’ work in visiting
Granite Stake.
	Meeting adjourned, until March 17, 1905,
after singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”. Dismissed with prayer by
brother Helm.
	The company repaired to the banquet
hall in the room below and the scene was
gratifying in the extreme especially to the
hungry ones. Tables loaded with good
things were set the whole length of the
room, snowy linen, china and glass with
appetizing viands and a profusion of flower-
ing plants upon the tables, presented a
striking picture, glowing with brilliant
color. Here Mrs. George M. Cannon,
chairman of refreshment committee, with
her numerous aids in white aprons, etc.,
had displayed their artistic taste in the way
of ornamentation. The curtain over the
platform at the east end of the hall was
raised and the broad platform utilized for
singers, organ, etc.—in place of footlights,
pots of flowers, bright with red crepe paper
for color effect to correspond with the table 
decorations.
	When the numerous guests were seated
at the tables and all was ready, Sister
Woodruff, hostess of the occasion, called
upon President Taylor to ask the blessing
upon the food, and while the people were
partaking of the bounties prepared for their
delectation by the good sisters of the Relief
Society, Prof Stephens and some of the
local musical talent entertained them with
songs and instrumental musical selections.
The Pratt boys, sons of Mathoni Prart,
little Agnes Clive, a veritable musical gen-
ius gave some of her sweetest tunes on the
violin, Miss Sumrherhayes also sang one or
two sweet songs, Miss Snow, of Manti,
gave a dramatic recitation of “Judith”
which was listened to with rapt attention.
	The arrangements for the enjoyment of
all invited were well planned and carried
out. Sister Woodruff and those, who assisted
should be heartily congratulated upon the


success of so large an undertaking. Six
hundred people sat at the banquet, perhaps
more, for the entire company were feasted. 
It was a mammoth undertaking but the 
Relief Society sisters are accustomed to
doing things liberally.
	Late in the afternoon the guests of hon-
or, Presidents Smith and Winder, who had
been expected, arrived and were heartily 
welcomed by the remaining company, 
though many of those from a distance had 
gone home disappointed because of their 
non-arrival.
	In the evening the young people of the 
stake, with a few of the older ones partici-
pated in dancing in the amusement hall
in the same building. President Smith
was among the number who enjoyed the 
dancing, and entered into the festivities of 
the occasion with his usual buoyancy of 
spirit, and desire to make others happy.
	The day was a red-letter one for Granite 
Stake and it will long be remembered by
those who enjoyed the pleasure of the 
meeting, the feasting and the dancing, one 
or all. These festive gatherings are restful
to the mind and a decided change from the 
humdrum of daily vocations which men 
and women pursue in the journey of life, 
and a good way to emphasize a day which 
has become so dear to the women of Zion,
as to be kept the world over.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FEBRUARY 29. 1904.
	In grateful acknowledgment of the many
favors and gifts bestowed on the anniver-
sary of February 29th in this year of our
Lord, it seems a fitting thing to publicly
(through the columns of the EXPONENT)
tender a few words,of appreciation and rec-
ognition to those dear friends who kindly
and generously remembered the day. To the
Utah Woman’s Press Club for the Valen-
tine Party, and Mrs. Maria Francis and
Mary Kelly, who opened their house for
the entertainment, and gave so much
pleasure to the club members. To the
Daughters of the Pioneers, for the delight-
ful reception given at the Bee Hive House,
to Mrs. Julina L. Smith, who gave the use
of the elegant parlors and arranged for
the guests, and to one and all who took
part in the program, and especially the
president, Alice Merrill Horne, whose fertile
brain planned the whole affair. We also
thank the relatives and friends who gath-
ered at the Cannon Farm, and who were so
delightfully entertaining in songs, speeches,
recitations and jokes. Altogether the day
was a festive occasion, the only regret be-
ing the absence of some members of the
family, who were too far away to attend
the gathering. It was a day long to be
remembered, and words are utterly inad-
equate to give an idea of what one wishes
to say in return for honors bestowed, but
we send herewith lovlng thoughts in gen-
erous profusion to all who, either by word,
deed, or wish helped to make the day a 
happy remembrance.


AN OLD LADIES' PARTY.
	Sister Ann Lewis, a veteran Welsh lady
in this city, celebrated her eighty-second
birthday on Tuesday, March 1, at the resi-
dence of her son, Walter J. Lewis. The
party was partly a surprise to the mother,
Mrs. W. J. Lewis having attended to all
the details, inviting the guests, amoug
whom were many devoted friends of the
guest of honor. It was quite a unique


gathering, most of the sisters present were
over seventy, with just a few younger
women The Welsh accent was very ap
parent in the conversation, which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, about
crossing the sea and the plains, taking
leave of home to gather to Zion, and so
on.
	A bounteous repast was served to about
forty sisters, Brother Lewis, her son, being
the only gentleman present at the table.
The genuine good feeling and enjoyment
of the day, including the sumptuous dinner,
was very happifying. Sister Lewis was
the recipient of a large number of presents,
including many cut flowers and potted
plants. These dear, aged sisters thor-
roughly enjoyed the social gathering. The
EXPONENT offers sincere congratulations,
wishing this our beloved sister, who left
her native land for the Gospel’s sake, many
more such happy reunions, and finally to
be reunited to her husband and companion
who has gone on before in the celestial
kingdom, with all their loved ones.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	About a dozen lady friends of Mrs.
Charlotte F. Richards met by invitation at 
the elegant home of her daughter, Mrs.
T. G. Webber, on Tuesday, March 8th, to 
celebrate Mrs. Richards 77th anniversary.
Flowers and gifts in great profusion were 
sent as mementoes of the day and of loving 
friendship. The lady herself seemed very 
young, light-hearted and sprightly and
has no indications whatever of old age.
The dinner was delicious, and the table 
decorations were very like a wedding 
affair, past description by the writer. Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith pronounced the bless-
ing and the guests enjoyed the tempting 
viands and the animated conversation.
Mrs. Webber is widely known as a delight-
ful hostess and the fervent good wishes of 
all present were expressed for many happy
returns of the day, to the guest of honor.
The EXPONENT adds its amen to all the 
beautiful sentiments given, and extends 
congratulations, hoping health, peace and 
joy for Mrs. Richards in the years to come 
for her and her posterity.


[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
GRANITE STAKE.
	On February 10th, 1904, the 14th quart-
erly conference of the Relief Society of 
Granite Stake was held in the Stake house,
President Emma S. Woodruff presiding.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer, Sister Sarah Gibson. Singing,
“Softly Beams.” Roll called and minutes 
of previous conference read and accepted.
Presidents reported: Sarah B. Gibson, Mary 
Belle Hamilton, Ann Eliza Neff, Annie 
Labrum, Patrina Jensen, Sarah A. Turn-
bow, Elizabeth Pixton, Emily Stevenson, 
all were reported as being in first class
order, and each one felt that her own was 
the best.
	The topics touched on were in relation 
to our Traveling sister missionaries, the 
special missionary work and the Temple 
work, also that the dead should be laid
away in a proper manner, that the poor as 
well as the rich should be clothed in the 
best of material, that they should have no
cause to reproach us when we meet them, 
that the sick, the poor and needy are 
tenderly cared for. The subject of wheat

[Column 2]
was touched upon, as also many other 
things. Sister Mary Boyle then sang very 
sweetly “O My Father.” Brother Charles 
Helm then made a few feeling remarks 
in relation to the aged in our midst and 
our duty to the afflicted ones, closed the 
morning session by singing “O, ye moun-
tains high.”
	Prayer by Brother James King.
	Afternoon session, 2 o’clock. After the 
preliminary exercises were attended to the 
officers were voted upon and sustained.
There were present on the stand President 
Frank Y. Taylor, Sister Annie T. Hyde
of the General Board, and all the local
authorities, with the exception of Counsel-
or Katharine Brockbank, who was unable 
to attend on account of sickness.
	Two beautiful selections were rendered 
on the violin by little Miss Agnes Clive.
President Frank Y. Taylor then gave the 
sisters a few suggestions, said we should 
plan our work ahead and do everything in 
a systematic manner and with order, that 
we should try to implant within every 
heart a desire to pay tithing and to observe 
the Word of Wisdom, and keep all the laws
of God. Said “When we are fully con-
verted to all the principles of the Gospel it 
will be no trial for us to observe all these 
things. Admonished all present against
the evils of speaking against the Lord’s
anointed or any in authority over us. We 
should not allow it around our fireside or 
at table or anywhere else.
	A solo was sung by Sister Maggie Hull,
entitled “Let he that is without sin cast 
the first stone.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde encouraged 
the sisters to faithfully perform all their 
duties, that the sweet influences of the 
Lord would always be with them, we 
should be particularly mindful of the 
stranger within our gates, and especially 
the new converts.
	Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B. Win-
der then rendered a duet, “Sometime,
Somewhere.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff and Coun-
selor Mary P. Young each made a few re-
marks and thanked all who had helped to 
make our conference a success and felt 
that it had been a profitable one.
	We desire to have it known that a whole
family and one other person has been con-
verted through the efforts of our Relief So-
ciety sisters.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Secretary Armeda S. Young.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the St.
Joseph Stake was held at Central ward 
meeting house, Nov. 6, 1903, President 
Elizabeth Layton presiding. After the 
opening exercises President Layton said 
she was disappointed, as no doubt the con-
gregation was also, in the members of the 
Central Board failing to arrive in time for 
our conference, but we were honored by the 
presence of President and Sister Udall of 
the St. John’s Stake, Eliza Tenny of 
Dublan, Mexico, the Stake Presidency, also 
members of the High Council. Eight 
branches out of ten were satisfactorily re-
ported.
	Aid Emma Coleman believed the sisters
were, as a rule, trying to live their relig-
ion. Without the Spirit of the Lord we 
should be unable to bear up under the 
duties and trials of mothers. President 
William Johnson: “The Relief Society has


the greatest mission of any organization in
the Church. We should discourage card
playing and profanity.”
	Eliza Tenny: "There is much for us as
officers and members of the Relief Society
to do. The Stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juarez Stake get out plans for
the mothers work and all the local organ-
izations in the stake work in unison. The
Saints have had a hard struggle in Mexico
but the Lord has opened the way for us to
secure our land.” Solo by Stake Counselor
Olive Kimball.
	President Udall rejoiced in meeting with
the Saints of this stake. "Sisters, you do
not have an equal chance with the brethren
unless you improve your opportunities.
The battle is not to the strong, or the race
to the swift, but to those who endure faith-
fully to the end. May the Lord bless our
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters, that
they may accomplish the work assigned
them.”
	Counselor Salina Phillips reported her
visit to Salt Lake City and the General R.
S. Conference, which was a grand success
and spiritual treat. Also read an article
from the Juvenile Instructor entitled "Race
Suicide.” Sister Udall, President of the
R. S. of St. John’s Stake felt built up and
strengthened by attending this conference,
we should show by our works that we do
appreciate the blessings we enjoy.
	At the afternoon session all enjoyed a
rare treat in a lecture given by Aid Sa-
mantha Folly on “Mothers’ Work,” fol-
lowed by a quartette by President E. Lay-
ton assisted by Lottie Larson, Clare Brink-
erhoff and Cynthia Layton.
	President Andrew Kimball gave a dis-
course on various duties of the sisters and
the brethren also. Explained “mothers’
work” and urged all to pursue this course
diligently. Recommended the singing of a
hymn by the family before morning prayer.
Home influence should be such that child-
ren will love to be at home.
	One of Sister E. R. Snow’s poems, “An
Address to Parents,” was rendered by Sar-
ah Webb.
	President Layton believed all felt renewed
spiritually. The sisters should donate
every month to the society, be it ever so
little. Thought the Prophet Joseph set a
worthy example to the brethren by his do-
nation at the organization of the R. S and
asserting that all his charitable acts from
that time on should be through that organ-
ization.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
SISTER B. JANE LUCE SIMONS.
	Born December 1, 1834, near Silver Creek, Cha-
tauqua county, New York; died January 14, 1904,
at Payson City, Utah.
	Whereas, the Supreme Ruler of the universe has
called from our midst by death our beloved sister,
Jane Luce Simons, and whereas she was presi-
dent of the Payson Relief Society for twenty-four
years (previous to the division of Payson into two
wards), performing the duties of said calling in
the fear of God and for the benefit of the sick and
afflicted, thereby gaining the good will and affec-
tion of her associates snd friends, being an honor
to her sex, endowed with the charm of a gracious
presence and a refining power, which she carried
into all the walks of li[-]e in which her lot was cast.
	And whereas she was a resident of the Payson
First ward, and was respected and honored by
all, irrespective of sex or creed, we therefore feel
that we have lost a wise counselor and a true
friend; but know our loss is her eternal gain, and


we hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow
are unknown; be it therefore
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved sons
and daughters our heartfelt sympathy, and trust
they will be comforted in the assurance that their
mother is not dead, but has gone to a brighter and
better world. Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions ba
presented to the family of the deceased, and like-
wise be copied and placed on the records of the
Relief Society and a copy sent to the EXPONENT
and our local paper for public[-]tion.
“Gone from the home of earth,
Followəd by deepest love.
To taste of the higher birth—
To dwell in the courts above."
AGNES C. DOUGLAS,
CLARISSA J. MOORE,
MARTHA B. SYMONS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God in his Infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved President, and
	Whereas we recognise in Sister Elizabeth Berry
a faithful and energetic worker, therefore be it,
	Resolved by the sisters of the Cedar Fort Relief
Society that we mourn her loss, but that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she set for us to follow.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God thaf his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is the Father’s gain.
Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the record of the society, one copy
sent to the family, and one to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication.
EMELINE DUBOIS, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Celinda Hannah Martin widow of the late Josiah
Fleming Martin, died on February 14, 1904, at
the home of her daughter, in Salina, Utah.—Mrs.
Hans. J. Gottfredson, of general debility, having
been afflicted for several years. Sister Martin was
born in Marion County Ohio, on the 29th of Feb-
ruary, 1832, moved with her father’s family, in her
childhood, to Illinois, where in course of time she
married, and moved with her husband to ‘Winter
Quarters’, on the Missouri river, crossed the plains
for Utah in the year, 1852. Moved later to Salt
Lake City where they remained until the Move,
and then located in Payson, moved from there to
Moroni, San Pete, and from there to Salina—in
the year 1865; were compelled to leave Salina on
account of Indian troubles in 1866, and located at
‘Old Chicken Creek’ where they remained until
the re-settlement of Salina in 1871, where they
made their future home. Sister Martin was a true
and faithful Latter-day Saint, unassuming, and
kind to a fault, and a faithful worker in the Relief
Society, and a steady subscriber to the Woman’s
Exponent. She was the mother of seven children,
four of whom preceded her to the great beyond, a
son and two daughters survive her, with a host of
grand-child[-]en and many sincere friends.
	The Funeral services were held on Tuesday the
16th inst., and were well attended. The Speakers
were, Elders—William McFadyen, Niels C. Ras-
mussen and Ex. Bishop James S. Jensen. Appro-
priate music was rendered by the Ward choir. A
large cortege followed the remains of our beloved
sister to their last resting pla[-]e. The grave was
dedicated by Elder James S. Jensen.
J. L.
TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	Sister Christina Liljenquist was born in Bar-
loise, Tyen. Denmark Jan. 13, 1822, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Sept.
18, 1852, and arrived in Utah Sept 13, 1857.
Among the many good things said at her funeral
we quote the following and would add she was a
constant subscriber to the Woman’s Exponent
and said on one occasion to the editor she would
willingly go without one meal a day rather than
do without it for it had been such a comfort to her.
GLOWING TRIBUTE FROM A LOVING FRIEND.
	"Sister Liljenquist, our beloved President, dear
friend and mother, whose body lies before us to-
day, came to Hyrum with her husband and family
in the summer of 1862. In 1863 her husband was
called as bishop of Hyrum, and her responsibilities
and cares were many She was my neighbor and [-]
learned to love and esteem her for her many good
qualities, for her faith and courage in times of trial
and poverty and her devotion to her husband and


children and kindness as a neighbor. On May 9th,
1869, Sister Liljenquist was called as counselor to
Sister Barnum in the Relief Society of Hyrum,
which position she filled with honor for two years,
when Sister Barnum resigned and Sister Liljen-
quist was sustained as president. She acted in this
capacity twenty years with great success and won
the love of her sisters and the gratitude of the
sick, afflicted and downcast She never turned the
needy away, but instead said, ‘If we empty onr
treasury we will get more.’ She was very humble
and her whole desire was to honor the priesthood
and serve the Lord, and through her humility and
faith she gained the confidence of her brethren
and sisters. Her charity never failed—she spoke
well of all. She was always ready and willing to
respond to every call from the priesthood. During
this time Sister Liljenquist was called on a mission
to work in the Logan temple, in company with her
husband, which mission she faithfully performed
for two years when they were honorably released.
She was beloved and kindly remembered by the
temple workers. She was honorably released from
her office as President of the Relief Society May
9th, 1889, on account of old age. Sister Liljenquist
was a faithful and true wife and mother and her
greatest pride was in her children and grand-
children. She has passed through many trials and
has been faithful and true, has fought the good
fight and will receive her reward with the faithful
in the celestial kingdom of God.”
	The members of the Relief Societies sent many
beautiful floral emblems, and one deserving espec-
ial mention was a design “Gates Ajar.”
	The entire community mourns the loss of this
good woman.


OBITUARY.
AT REST.
	Sister Lucinda Curtis passed away on the 26th
day of January, 1904. She was born in
Scarborough, Cumberland county, Maine, Janu-
ary 14, 1831. She was the daughter of Lydia
Smith and Dominicus Carter. They were with the
Saints in an early day, and passed through some
of the persecutions. Her mother died when she
was about seven years old; her father went to Far
West to see about burial things, but was chased
back by the mob, only escaping by the darkness
coming on, the mob stopping at the top of a hill,
while at the foot of the hill the tongue of Brother
Carter’s wagon had come down, and he was
obliged to stop and fix it; but the mob did not
know this, and he was able to escape. He re-
turned home, rolled his wife in a sheet, and thus
she was buried. I have heard the deceased relate
many other sad scenes that they passed through,
and declared their lives were only spared by the
power of God. Lucinda Carter and Ezra H.
Curtis were married December 18. 1846, at Mouut
Pisgah, Pottawatamie county, Iowa. Came to
Salt Lake in 1851, in Captain Horne’s company,
and on to Provo, where they made their home
most of the time until 1875, when they moved to
Sevier county, took up land and made them a new
home.
	Sister Carter was president of the Salina Relief
Society for three years, and was elected president
of the Aurora Relief Society March 18, 1883, and
served until February, 1901, and was released on
account of poor health. The writer of this sketch
worked with Sister Carter for eight years, and
can therefore bear testimony that she was a faith-
ful worker, never ceasing, never tiring, but boldly
struggling to the end. She was a woman of rare
ability in looking after the affairs of her society.
Sister Carter passed through mony hardships, be-
ing one of those called to go and settle Iron county
in an early day. She never became rich in this
world’s goods, but was ever willing to share with
those in need. She was one of those brave spirits
who were ever ready to assist in building up the
kingdom of God. We all learned to love her, and
feel to mourn her loss. There were few like her—
She had a paralytic stroke, and was unable to
speak from Wednesday until the following Tues-
day, when she passed peacefully away.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father has called her to
a higher sphere; therefore
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and cherish the
memory and strive to emulate her noble works.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her children, also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication, and be placed upon the rcords of the
Aurora Ward Relief Society.
				LAURA WHIPPLE HOLDAWAY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
CASSIA STAKE.
Lecture I.—Honesty.
	“The honest man though e’er so poor,
	Is king o’ men for a’ that.” Burns.
A. Truthfulness.
		1. Children are prone to exaggerate.
	2. Fear of punishment leads to pre-
	varication. 3. Truthfulness in children
	may be encouraged, if due diligence
	be exercised by parents and teachers.
	(Ref. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 93:1-40;
	Prov. 12:19-23; Prov. 13, 5-6).
	“Lies may be light and accidental, but
they are an ugly soot from the pit, and it
is better that our hearts should be swept
clean of them, without our care as to which
is the largest or blackest.” Ruskin.
B. Stealing.
		1. Envy leads to stealing. 2. Par-
	ents should provide for the reasonable
	wants of children. 3. The only atone-
	ment for theft is confession, and resti-
	tution where possible. (Ref. Exodus
	20:15; Doc. and Cov. Sec. 83:4)..
Lecture II.—Reverence.
	“Fear mingled with respect and esteem.”
A. Reverence for God.
		1. The name of God not to be used
	in vain. (Ref. Exodus 20:7). 2.
	Silence during prayer in home and
	church.
B. Reverence for Priesthood. (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 107:4; 64:34-37;
	Numbers 16:1-36).
		Courtesy to the Church officers.	
C. Reverence for Holy Things.
		1. Behavior in church. 2. Gospel
	topics should be spoken of reverently.
	3. Reverence for the aged.
“Speak to them gently, treat them with care
Give them the fireside’s easiest chair,
They wept for you once parental tear,
Don’t let them weep now, smooth the gray hair.”
Lecture III.—Discipline in the Home.
	“True devotion melts distrust,
	As the sun dispels the snow,
	And too much fierce and ardent heat
	Will dry the fullest fountain too.”
A. Devotion in the Home. (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 93:40-45; an article
	written by President Jos. F. Smith
	published in Era, Dec. 1903, page
	135).
B. Disobedience. (Ref. I Samuel 15;
	Genesis 4:8-15; Book of Mormon
	II Nephi 5:20:25.
C. Obedience. (Ref. Eph. 6:15).
“And e’er before him who in faith goes,
The manna falls, the sea divides,
The desert blossoms as the rose
And all things good his Lord provides.’
	1. How obedience may be obtained
in the home. 2. Punishment is occa-
sionally necessary. 3. Rule in the
home does not mean tyranny.
D. System.
	1. Routine duties of parents to chil-
dren’s growths. 2. Idleness to be dis-
couraged. 3. Habits of neatness and

[Column 2]
cleanness to be formed. 4. Responsi-
bility of a portion of home life should
be placed upon each child.
Lecture IV.—Evil Habits in Children.
A. Profanity. (Ref. Matt. 5:34-37;
	Exodus 20:7).
	1. Children should not be allowed to
associate with profaners. 2. Parents
should set proper example.
B. Observance of Word of Wisdom. (Ref.
	Doc. and Cov. Sec. 89).
	1. Self respect in children. 2. Self
respect as to body, to dress and con-
versation.
Lecture V.—Courtship and Marriage.
A. Courtship.
	1. Early courtship and prolonged
courtship to be discouraged. 2. Chil-
dren should be instructed by parents,
previous to marriage as to the duties of
married life. 3. Parents should exer-
cise great wisdom in assisting their
children in the choice of life partners.
B. Marriage. (Ref. Doc. and Cov.
	Sec. 132.
	1. Early marriages to be encouraged.
Lecture VI.—The Nursery.
		1. Children should have a room in
	the home where they may indulge
	freely in their play. 2. Acts of selfish-
	ness in the nursery should be checked.
	3. Mothers should plan the games of
	children. 4. Energy of children should
	not be checked too much but directed.
	5. Mothers strive to make home the
	most pleasant place in the community.
	6. When punishment is necessary it
	should be tempered with kindness.
			LOUISA HAIGHT, Prest.,
			LAVINIA BATES,
			MAUDE A. THOMAS, Counselors,
LUCYNTHIA ROBBINS, Secretary.


THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF 
			WOMEN.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The days immediately succeeding the
adjournment of the annual executive of the
National Council of Women were so full of
work that it was quite impossible to send
a report of the interesting session to you.
Now it is too late for a report, but not too
late to convey to your readers information
for which the receipt of many letters from
many quarters shows us their writers are
waiting. Neither is it too late to record
the universal pleasure among those present
at the sessions of the executive conference.
With four important exceptions, all of the
national organizations belonging to the
council were represented by their presi-
dents and delegates or proxies and alter-
nates.

	As fraternal delegates, Miss Louise Lee
Hardin, editor of the Business Woman’s
Journal and president of the Business Wo-
men’s Club, and Mrs Bradford, the presi-
dent of the Colorado State Federation of
Clubs, were present. They were given the
courtesy of even the business sessions as 
auditors, and were both invited to speak at 
an evening session. Miss Hardin is a very 
enthusiastic advocate of the organization of 
business woman. She believes that the
pecuniary interests of women may be as
much fostered by such organizations as has

[Column 2]
their intellectual culture been by the ogan-
ization of literary clubs.

	Mrs. Swift’s presidency has thus far
been marked by great energy and zeal, and
the work planned for the coming year im-
plies that the council will have little leisure
until after the next triennial.
	The election of representatives for the
Berlin quinquennial was of primary impor-
tance. Prior to the election, Mrs. Swift
announced that she had asked the Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw to act as her proxy.
Although Mrs. Swift expects to be present
in Berlin, she felt it desirable to have a 
proxy on the ground so that, if for any 
reason she was not able to be present at
every session, the council should not go
unrepresented; and, moreover, she felt it 
desirable to have a proxy with whom she
could confer upon all matters upon which
the council will be called upon to act in its
executive capacity. The election resulted 
as follows:
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was elected by
acclamation the first delegate.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper her alternate.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, the representa-
tive in the National Council of the Florence
Crittenden Mission, and the vice-president
of the American Council is the other delegate.
	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, the president
of the National Association of Jewish Wo-
men, was chosen to be her alternate.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson was elected to
be the “speaking representative’’ of the
American Council.
	Mrs: Isabella Charles Davis to be her
alternate.
	A word of explanation of the phrase
“speaking representative’’ seems desirable.
At the Dresden session of the International
Executive last August, it was decided that
the second public meeting of the council at
the quinquennial at Berlin, which will oc-
cur on the evening of June 9th, shall be
devoted to the presentation of the national
councils constituting the International, and
that the program shall consist of an address
necessarily limited to six minutes in length,
by one representative from each of the affil-
iated councils. It was ordered that each
speaker should be invited to make a con-
densed statement of the characteristic fea-
tures of council work in her own country
and of the degree and manner in which the
work of her national council fosters the 
spirit of internationalism.
	Some criticism has been made of the time
limit set for these addresses, but with per-
haps twenty affiliated councils to hear from,
a program allowing six minutes to each 
will afford two hours of steady speaking.
Allowing for the opening and the closing 
and the necessary intervals between the
speeches, although the management may
be perfect and this inevitable loss of time
be reduced to a minimum, the entire pro-
gram will cover two hours and a half. To
be fair, each council must be permitted the
same time. Should it be urged that the
oldest councils, or the councils having the
largest membership, or those representing 
the largest territory, should be given more
time, one must be reminded that each and
all of these suggestions are opposed to the
council idea, the abounding value of which
rests in the fact, that the council respects
neither geographical extent nor numerical
strength, and that it is the desire to value
every council with exclusive reference to
the contribution of what is essentially char-
acteristic in its nationality.


[Column 1]
	I have few times heard the remark, “It
is hardly worth while to cross the ocean for
the sake of speaking six minutes.” No
doubt there have been words uttered in
much less than six minutes that have cost
much more in time and money than will
the journey to Berlin cost any of the par-
ticipants in the quinquennial of the council;
but no one who considers the program of
June 9th, as initiated above, from the point
of view that those who take part in it come
from their respective countries simply “to
speak six minutes,” is as yet imbued with
the council idea. One goes, not for what
she herself is to say, but for what all the
others who come up to Berlin will say. One
goes to contribute a single facet to the dia-
mond, a single sentence to the speech which
all will make, a single aspect to the whole
which I call internationalism.
	One other very important matter bearing
upon the quinquennial and the internation-
al congress was decided. The local com-
mittee, of which Frau Hedwig Heyl is
chairman, has determined to decorate the
corridors of the halls where the meetings
are to be held with a collection which will
represent the work and progress in art of
the women of the different countries includ-
ed in the international council. A special
committee has been formed to take charge
of this exhibit, of which Frau Margarethe
Keyner is the chairman. The exhibit is
to include the following classes of objects.
	“First: Portraits of characters who have
rendered real and great service on behalf of
the Woman’s Movement, either as propa-
gandists or as practical workers.
	“Second: Works of art, such as busts,
statuettes, and paintings which illustrate
woman’s work, especially with regard to
decorative purposes.”
	To each country is assigned a definite
amount of wall space in the corridors Be-
sides this, the committee states that some
decorative pictures and objects in plaster
can be placed in the refreshment room,
“not more, however than six for any coun-
try.”
	To take charge of the representation of
the artistic work of American women, a
special committee was appointed, which
consists of Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, head
of the department of art in the American
council, and Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, the
only sculptor among the American patrons
of the international council. This commit-
tee has already begun its work, and the
known skill and taste of its members, to-
gether with their reputation for doing well
whatever they undertake, is a guarantee
that if the artists to whom they apply make
cordial response, the place which is assigned
will be creditably filled.
	A most interesting report was brought in
by Mrs. Hollister and Mrs. Quinlan con-
cerning the representation ot the American
council at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition. Although disappointment was, per-
haps, felt in some quarters when it was first
announced that the board of lady managers
of the exposition would admit no organiza-
tion into their building, it seems from every
point of view to be much more desirable
that, the council shall have quarters in the

[Column 2]
administration building, where the United
States government has granted it space.
Mrs. Sparklin, of St Louis, is the chairman
of the local committee in charge, and Mrs.
Swift, who went to St. Louis after the ad-
journment of the council executive to give
personal attention to the matter, has great
confidence that the council will have every
opportunity for adequate representation.
It may be well here again to say that all
national organizations and all local councils
affiliated with the national council a[-]e
asked, through their respective officers, to
correspond directly with Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, whose address is 507 Kirby Av-
enue west, Detroit, Michigan, concerning
its representation, since it is desired that all
affiliated bodies shall have an equal oppor-
tunity to share the benefits of the council
headquarters.
	Mr, A. S. Ford, the editor and publisher
of “Madame”(which by written vote of the
national council had already been adopted
as its organ), attended one session and was
received with great cordiality by the execu-
tive, whose members see in this new me-
dium of publicity a means of reaching large
numbers of women who are not members
of any of the affiliated organizations, or in-
deed of progressive societies of any kind.
As a means of communication among its
own members, particularly its official mem-
bers, the Bulletin will be continued, edited
as heretofore, by the corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, who made an
admirable summary of her year’s work in a
report which pleased both by its wit and by
the amount of work which it evinced.
	Miss Jessie Ackerman, the chairman of
the press committee, will have charge of
the two pages that are given in “Madame”
each month to conned interests, and in her
official capacity will organize also a syn-
dicate for furthering council interests.
	Since the adjournment of the council ex-
ecutive, I have received from Frau Stritt
the list which it was hoped would arrive
in time to be reported upon at the execu-
tive. I refer to the list of American women
to whom official invitations have been is-
sued to attend the international congress,
which is to follow the council. This in-
cludes one hundred and eight names of per-
sons, about one-half of whom have been
nvited to speak, and the other “to partici-
pate,” which means to take part in the
open discussion which will follow formal
papers. This indication of the generous
attitude of the German committee toward
the American council will be much appre-
ciated by our women everywhere. The
number of official invitations sent to this
country largely exceeds what I had antici-
pated as possible. The only ones of the
list of nominees sent over by the American
council to the German committee not in-
vited are those constituting a third list,
which were very tardily sent in some time
after the first and even the second list had
been forwarded It is to be hoped that
many women who have thought that it
would be impossible for them to go will
now, upon the receipt of their official invit-
ations, reconsider the matter and decide to
accept an opportunity which will afford many

[Column 3]
privileges besides meeting with the women
workers of other nations.
	I take this opportunity to ask those of
my compatriots who have received such of-
ficial invitation, kindly to let me know
whether they will be able to accept it, and,
if so, about what time they intend to sail.
This request is made because of a plan that
is being worked out, by which it is hoped
some advantages and concessions may be
secured from railway and steamboat com-
panies for members of the council and the
congress. Now that the invitations must
already have been received, I should like
our women to notify me of their intention
before March 21st.
	Since my last communication to the Expo-
nent two more councils have come into affil-
iation, that of Austria; which, having been
organized in 1902, applied for affiliation at
a meeting of its executive convened to con-
sider the matter on January 8th, 1904. In
the first week of February, Froken Gina
Krog, who has served as the honorary vice-
president of the national council for Nor-
way since 1899, had the great happiness to
see her labors culminate iu the organization
of a national council for her country under
her presidency, which also immediately
voted for affiliation with the international
council.
	It will interest the readers of the Wo-
man’s Exponent to know that the agenda for
the quinquennial of the council will contain
a proposition already indorsed by ten coun-
cils, for placing the advocacy of political
equality upon the council program for pro-
paganda.		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	President of the International Council
					of Women.
Indianapolis Ind., March 1st, 1904.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.						TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


It is announced that the Japanese gov-
ernment has accepted the offer made by 
Dr. Anita Newcomb McGee to take a party 
of nurses to Japan. No nurse is to be in-
vited by Dr. McGee except graduate nurses
who have done field and hospital duty in 
the United States army, and the number 
who will go will depend on voluntary con-
tributions to defray expenses. The first 
party expects to sail in March.


Women’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

