				Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1904		No. 12.


CONTENTS.
Discipline and Development.................
	...........................Elizabeth Fletcher	89
Mother’s Work—Snowflake...................	90
Visit to St. George Stake........................
	...........................Ann C. Woodbury	91
Home and its Influence..........................
	.......................Mary A. C. Lambert	91
Mother’s Work—South Sanpete.............	91
General Conference Relief Society........	93
International Quinquennial.....................	95
In Memoriam..........................................	96
Yellow, Purple, White.............................	96
EDITORIAL—Our Little Paper.............	92
	Editorial Notes................................	92
	Birthday Party Bee Hive House.....	92
	A Pleasant Party..............................	92
	Birthday Gathering.........................	93
POETRY—The Healer.....Ellis R. Shipp	89
	A Storm on the Atlantic Ocean.......
	................................Lydia D. Alder	89
	My Treasures...............Ray Hulbert	91


THE HEALER
Small bud with its frail stem broken,
Sweet song that was left unsung—
Fond love that was never spoken—
And the harp that was left unstrung!

Fair bud with its frail stem bended,
Bruised flower that might have bloomed,
All future promises ended—
All of thy glories entombed,

Ah! the harp sent forth no message,
Alas! it was left unstrung—
Its echoes all hushed and silent!
The beautiful song unsung,

Love-words, which never were spokeu,
Left longings forever void—
The vows which were made and broken—
Bright visions and hopes destroyed.

Then where, oh, where is the guerdon
For hopes all blighted so soon?
The potent touch of the Master,
Will set life’s music in tune.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.


A STORM ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.

	The storm-king reigns in fury,
		The sea is dashing high;
	The waves white capped are lashing,
		Where e’er may rest the eye.
	Our steamer good the “Cretic”
		Rides o’er the billowy wave,
	Then sinks deep in a valley
		As though in wat’ry grave.

	The storm-king’s legions howling,
		Incessant chorus sing;
	On masts and ropes are playing
		Wild winds, whose tones they fling.
	O, grand the storm-king’s fury,
		The tempest’s awful sound;
	When as abyss, then seething
		The waters rush around.

	The sky of inky blackness
		With ne’er a ray serene,
	Envelopes as a mantle,
		Rain fierce beats in between;
	A sea comes o’er the vessel,
		With crushing, deaf’ning roar;
	Receding, then is sullen;
		O, may it come no more.


’Mid creaking of the timbers
		Propeller’s whirl in air,
	And madd’ning splash of water,
		I hear my loved ones’ prayer,
	Far o’er the Rocky mountains,
		I know they plead for me, 
	That safe we’ll reach the harbor, 
		Across the stormy sea.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
DISCIPLINE AND DEVELOPMENT.
	“Obedience to parental command was
Heaven’s first law”. It is no less important
now than it was at the beginning of man’s
career on the earth.	Happy indeed is the
home where a proper discipline is main-
tained; with Paul we say “Children obey
your parents in the Lord:” for it is right.
“Honor thy father and mother;” which is
the first commandment with promise that it
may be well with thee and thou mayest live
long on the earth. And ye “fathers, provoke
not your children to wrath, but bring them
up in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord.” I consider the foregoing very ap-
propriate in the lesson of mother’s work.
Parents should exercise proper control over
the child.	And in order that we mothers
may find out better the way to properly
control our children, I wil endeavor to bring
out a few points. Why should the parent
control the child? Why not let him follow
his own inclination? I think we can all
readily see what kind of a household that
would be; instead of the home being one of
peace and order that it should be, just the
opposite would be the result, Secondly:
that proper ends may be accomplished with
the least effort. The third reason, for the
sake of character development, which is a
very good reason; for if a child is left to
grow up in this world where there is so
much sin without some one to watch and
guard him and point out to him both the
good and the evil, and whenever the least
tendency toward evil is shown, to check it
at once; he is apt to develop much more of
the evil than the good. 
	One of the first lessons to the child should
be that of prompt and willing obedience to
parents. And the very best way to obtain
this result, is never to require or ask a
child to do anything that is beyond its cap
acity; and we should consider all the cir-
cumstances surrounding it. And then after
the requirement is made, always see to it
that the child obeys the request. Now in
this connection a great deal depends upon
how we speak to a child when we ask him
to do anything. If we speak in a command-
ing or harsh tone of voice, and at the same
time call him lazy or something similar it
is no more than natural that the child rebels
and refuses to obey. While on the other
hand if he is spoken to in a gentle tone of
voice, and at the same time calling him by
some pet name, he will almost invariably
jump up and run to do the mother’s bid-
ding. And let me say to you mothers,when
your child does this, never forget to repay
him with a smile, a gentle caress and a
pleasant thank you.

[Column 2]
	Parents should get the child’s confidence.
This is very true, and a very improtant fac-
tor in helping to guide the child right.
Mothers should encourage their children in
telling about the little incidents that hap-
pen to them when out of her company.	I
have seen mothers when their little boy or
girl has come full of excitement about
something that has happened; instead of
that mother listening and taking a lively
interest in both the joys and sorrows of what
the child has to relate, she will possibly give
him or her a push, and say “Oh dont both-
er me, I dont care anything about that.” A
child treated in this way a few times soon
becomes reticent and don’t bother to tell
mother of the little troubles of everyday life,
and in that way the mother loses her op-
portunity of giving her counsel when it
would be of the most benefit. And as the
girl and boy grow older instead of making
mother the confidential friend and advisor
that she should be, their confidence is placed
somewhere else, and in some instances the
counsel they receive from others, instead of
leading them right has just the opposite
effect.
	There is another view of thls subject. A
parent’s every action should be such that
the children will have the utmost cofid-
dence in them. I consider the practice that
some parents indulge in of deceiving their
children and making promises to them that
they never intend to fulfill the worst kind of
discipline. Parents should be very careful
about making promises to their children;
they should consider all the circumstances;
and then, after the promise is given, always
see that it is fulfilled: unless it is impossible
for reasons that the child himself can under-
stand. While on the other hand a parent
that is continually making and breaking
promises soon loses the confidence of the
children and as a consequence the power of
control is weakened. In a family we find
different characteristics in each child and
for that reason no special rule can be laid
down; different methods may be necessary
for the training of each child. Therefore,
how necessary that parents should do all in
their power to gain that knowledge necess-
ary to rear their children, so that they may
become noble men and women. And how
thankful we should be that we are so situa-
ted that we can avail ourselves of good
teachers for our children. Our brethren saw
the necessity of this; therefore the different
organizations in the church for the benefit
of the young. All churches have the Sunday
School but that is not sufficient so in ad-
dition to our Sunday School we have the
Primary and Religion classes and Improve-
ment Associations. If a child is sent regu-
larly to these different organizations as they
get old enough, and they learn the lessons
there assigned to them, there is not much
danger of their going very wrong.	But
some parents say I can’t get my children to
go, they will go to Sunday School occasion-
ally and quit that altogether when they are
sixteen or thereabouts. What’s the matter?
well there are different reasons; but do you
know that I think that the greatest fault lies
with the parents. Sometimes they are kept


[Column 1]
at home for some trifling thing, and they
lose their interest; and sometimes they
have lessons assigned them, and instead of
the mother helping her boy or girl in
preparing that lesson If it should be a little
difficult, they will perhaps not give them
the necessary time in which to prepare the
same. And as we all know it sometimes
takes a very little thing to discourage a
child. But if they once get out of the habit
of going, Oh, how hard it is to get them
started again. So for that reason, we should
be on guard and when any inclination is
shown of not wanting to attend meetings,
use every endeavor to overcome their objec-
tions. I dont believe in forcing a boy or
girl to meeting or threatening them with
punishment if they don’t go, but kindly
show them the good that they will derive
from attending. Now while we are on the
subject of good teachers, I would like to say
a few words in favor of sending our boys
and girls to the Church schools, for I know
as well as I want to, that it is one of the
greatest of all helps to parents in making
good Latter-day Saints of their children.
When boys and girls are about sixteen or
eighteen we all know that it is about the
hardest time for the parents to get them to
attend to their religious duties; but if we
place them in a Church school about that
time and keep them there for a few years,
and at the same time give them the proper
example and training at home, I think that-
in ninety cases out of a hundred they will
come out good Latter-day Saints, besides
being prepared in other ways for the battle
of life.
	Parents should be united in the govern-
ment of the child. I think we will all agree
on that, for it would certainly be an uphill
business in training any child where the
parents were not united in their methods of
government. One parent should never in-
terfere with the other while the child is be-
ing corrected or punished, but if you feel
that the correction or punishment is unjust,
wait until the child is out of hearing before
finding fault in any way; and then try to
harmonize ideas for the benefit of the child.
Parents that have the habit of finding fault
with each other before their children cannot
expect anything else but that they will
grow up quarrelsome with each other and
their playmates; and not only that, but they
lose the reverence and respect for their par-
ents that they should have. Another reas-
on why one parent should not interfere with
the other, is that it is apt to make the child
feel that he is being unjustly dealt with.
	The next question, what condition of
mind should the parent be in while admin-
stering punishment? The answer should
be, never punish in anger. I wonder how
many there are of us that follow that rule,
I dare say that none of us do it altogether.
But it is a true principle nevertheless.
Some of the best thinkers and writers tell
us that we should never whip a child while
angry. Now I should like to know how
many mothers would whip unless they were
angry. I think there are very few, but we
don’t like to acknowledge that we whipped
our child because we were angry. Oh no,
we say, it was because he had done some-
thing for which he deserved a thrashing.
But I would like to ask; does whipping do
any good anyway? We can all answer that
for ourselves, but I am decidedly of opinion
that it does more harm than good every time.
Then you might say, what are you going
to do to correct your child when he does

[Column 2]
wrong?, the answer is this. The home
should be as far as possible, natural, and of
such a nature, that the child himself will
feel that the correction is just. For instance,
if a child tells a falsehood, and it becomes
known to the rest of the family, he should
be made to feel that he has done that for
which he deserves the suspicion of the whole
family. All eyes shou'd be turned upon
him with a pitying distrust. Or if your little
boy whittles your furniture with his new
pocket-knife and you give him a slap for it
perhaps as soon as your back is turned he
will only do it again. But if you deprive him
of the use of his knife for a few days, he
will have time to realize the loss of it, and
he will not be very likely to repeat the
offense.
	I don’t think that any good ever came
from telling a little child; “The bad man
will get you if you don’t be good" or that
“There’s a big bear out there” or similar
expressions. In fact very bad effects follow
such practices. In the first place the child
is frightened, and is apt to grow to be of a
nervous disposition; but that is not the worst
of it. It will not be long before the child
finds out that he is being deceived, that the
mother to whom he has always looked as
being perfect has actually been telling a
falsehood. Mothers did you ever think of
it in that way before? did you ever stop to
realize that you were teaching your little
child the first lesson in deception. It is just
such practices and others that I have tried,
in this lecture to show the evil effects of, that
tend to weaken parental control. I have
already given you my opinion of whipping
children as a means of punishment and as
I said before, it not only does no good
but causes a feeling of resentment, and has
often been the means of causing children to
tell falsehoods; and what more could we ex-
pect than that a child who gets a whipping
every time it does wrong; naturally tries to
evade that kind of punishment, even if he
has to tell a falsehood to do so.
	I have [-]ndeavored in my weak way to
follow the subject of this lecture; and to
sum it all up. we find that the main points
to be remembered are. Unity of parents.
Kindness but not indulgence. Firmness but
not harshness. And above all let the ex-
ample be such that when our everyday life
is reflected in the actions of our children,
that they may bring joy and happiness to
us instead of sorrow and remorse. May
this be our happy lot is the sincere desire of
ELIZABETH FLETCHER, PROVO.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

Lesson VII.—Employment for Children.

	“From toil he wins his spirits light
	From busy day the peaceful might.”
								GRAY.
	(a) A busy life cannot well be otherwise
than cheerful, (b) Let the child assist his
parents in the home at a very early age and
help him to feel that his aid is necessary
and appreciated, (c) Cultivate a desire in
the child to work his way honestly and
bravely, (e) All labor that is honest is
honorable too. (f) Parents do wrong in
keeping their children too much sheltered
and enervated by parental indulgence.

Lesson VIII.—Amusements.

	(a) Have them adapted to both the ment-

[Column 2]
al and physical development of the child,
(b) Teach him to invent games and be will-
ing for him to invite other children in to
participate. (c) Do not let amusements in-
fringe upon the sacredness of the Sabbath
Day or upon the rights and property of
others, (d) Avoid excesses particularly in
dancing (Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 246,
Vol 37.

Lesson IX.—Politeness

	“Politeness is to do and say
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.”
	(a) Proper respect for the rights and
privileges of one another at home and
abroad. (b) Politeness is the result of good
sense and good nature. It is a pait of good
morals. (c) Levity of manner unbecoming,
(d) Americans are afflicted with pretension.
Let the Latter-day Saint mother seek to
eradicate the evil. (e) “A graceful be-
havior towards superiors, inferiors and
equals is a constant source of pleasure.”

Lesson X.—Make Home Attractive.

		“Let Love Abound,”
	(a) A gilded palace is not a home, it is
not a formal school of staid solemnity and
rigid discipline that constitutes a home. (b)
“’Tis there the twig is bent.” (c) Encour-
age music both vocal and instrumental. It
induces children to spend their evenings at
home. (d) Pictures of a proper character
have a refining influence. (e) Flower gar-
dens cultivated by both boys and girls.

Lesson XI.—Make Home Attractive. (con-
tinued).

	“You may break, you may shatter the vase if you
		will.
	But the scent of the roses will hang’round it still.”
	(a) Family devotions. No child can fail
to be impressed where all is sincerity. (b)
Good books are as necessary as good com-
pany. They are an evidence of culture. Let
them be adapted to the capacity of the
child. (c) Make a specialty of church
works. (d) Baneful effects of dime novels.
(Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 274-586,
Vol. 37).

Lesson XII.—Habits of Children

	“Habit in a child is at first like a spider web if
neglected it becomes a thread of twine next a cord
of rope finally a cable—then who can break it?”
	(a) Habit is a man’s best friend or worst
enemy. (b) All the virtues or vices, all the
actions of mind or body may be chained by
its despotic power. (c) The importance of
forming only good habits. (d) Bad habits
are broken only by perseverance and earnest
prayer. (e) The importance of mothers
watching the habits of her children from
earliest infancy, (e) Regularity in diet,
sleep, work, play etc.
	Emma S Smith, President; Sarah Driggs,
Mary J. K. West, Counselors; Della F.
Smith, Secretary; Janet M. Smith Treas-
urer.


Fort Madison, Ia., boasts having as one of
its most respected and patriotic citizens
Mrs. Rachel Albright, who is a grand-
daughter of Betsy Ross, who made the
first American flag. Mrs. Albright was
born in the home of her grandmother,
Betsy Ross, in Philadelphia, June 16, 1812
and was brought up under Mrs. Ross’ care.
She there learned the art of making flags
at her grandmother’s knee, and Mrs. Al-
bright still carries on this work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY TREASURES.
		BY RAY HULBERT.
I am standing today on the evergreen bank
	O’erhanging the River of Time;
In the distance behind me are memories rank—
	Before me the future sublime.

About me are twining the affections of old,
	Like tendrils of new-grown moss;
While pictures of silver and threads of gold
	Are gleaming amid flakes of floss.

As I stand on the banks of this beautiful shore,
	Now washed by the Waters of Life,
I find fresh among the bright treasures of yore,
	The pearls of the present are rife.

And my heart wells upward, toward the Great
		White Throne,
	As I glean of these rubies so bright,
And I offer to him who sitteth enthroned,
	My treasures for His World of Light.


VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	The Presidency of the St. George Stake
Relief Society left St. George May 2nd, and
in the afternoon met with the Relief Society
of Leeds where Bishop McMullin met with
us and we reorganized the Society.
	Sister Susan Harris, the former president,
has moved to Wyoming, and Helen Mc-
Mullin takes her place as president. Ada
McMullin and Mary Olsen counselors. The
sisters were well pleased with our visit.
Sister Mary G. White, Stake president of
the Primary was with us and the Primary
was also reorganized. Caroline McMullin
president, Mrs. Frank McMullin and Emma
Angel counselors; we had a nice meeting,
and went on to Toquerville where counse-
lor Mary D. Batty presided at meeting of
the Relief Society as president Spilsbury
could not attend. There was a full attend-
ance and the organization was complete.
The next morning at 8 a. m. held primary
and just before the meeting closed the
school bell rang and the children ran from
the meeting like a flock of sheep, for the
school room. We then went to Virgen by
the “twist” which is a hard road, and held
Relief Society at 2 p. m. with President
Hilton presiding. We had an enjoyable
time. The sisters appreciate the yearly
visits. We here appointed Primary meet-
ings to be held as we returned.
	We went on to Grafton where we had a
general meeting. So few people live there
that it is hard to keep up the associations,
but they are striving to do right. We spent
the night with Lottie Russell and others.
Went to Rockville on the 8th and had
meeting at 10 o’clock Mary L. Stout presid-
ing: she is the mother of 15 children and
quite a young looking woman, another lady
there has had the same number. “Utah’s
best crop,” is exhibited here. We met with
77 children in the Primary association Sis-
ter Farnes presiding.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Springdale and spent the night at the
Bishop’s. The scenery here is grand and the
fresh mountain air is very invigorating.
	At 10 o’clock a. m. met with the Relief 
Society, Bishop Oliver Gifford met with
us. At 2 p. m. met with Primary and re-
turned to Rockville, where we spent the
night with Sister Ida Miller a widow. 
	We went to Virgen on the 6th and met
with the Primary, many of the mothers met
with us, Sister Stratton presided, we had a
nice meeting and returned to Toquerville,
and held an officers meeting with the Relief
Society.


Went to Leeds on the 7th and had Pri-
mary meeting, Caroline McMullin presiding,
a lot of well behaved children live here.
We went on to Harrisburg and met with the
people there, had a good time.
	We returned to St. George having been
gone 6 days, held 13 meetings, traveled 90
miles and enjoyed ourselves very much,
visiting with the Saints.
				ANN C. WOODBURY


HOME AND ITS INFLUENCE.
	If we only realized the importance the
influence of home has upon the life of our
children, we would strive to make it the
most desirable place for them.
	This can be done by making the children
feel that it is necessary for them to do their
part to bring this about.
	Children ought to be taught to be help-
ful and considerate for their parents or
elders. Mothers make a great mistake when
they bring their children up to expect to be
waited upon.
	It naturally makes them selfish, when if
they are taught from their infancy to per-
form small acts to save mother, and if it is
impressed upon their minds through love,
it will come quite natural to them to do so.
Many mothers may think that this is too
much trouble, they would rather do it them-
selves it is too much bother; we must not
think this if we wish them to grow up to be
useful; we wish them to be happy and have
a good time and therefore they should be
helpful.
	The influence of home and its surround-
ings stay by us all through our lives, then
how careful we ought to be that those im-
pressions are of a pleasant and profitable
nature.
	We should be very careful of the com-
pany that they keep; rather have them
bring company home, than go out to seek
it, by doing so we have a better chance to
judge of their companions.
	It is also necessary that we as mothers
set before them by example as well as pre-
cept that we should wish them to follow
“as we sow so shall we reap,” if we make
good impressions they will be lasting.
	Solomon says, “My son keep thy fathers
commandment and forsake not the law of
thy mother. Bind them continually npon
thy heart and tie them about thy neck.”
	“When thou goest, it shall lead thee; and
when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and
when thou awakest it shall talk with thee.”
	The wise man Solomon realized this.
MARY A. C. LAMBERT.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Pre-natal life and hints to prospective
mothers.

	Lecture I.— The first great command, “Mul-
tiply and replenish the earth”
	(a) Necessity of faith in God as a guiding
star to expectant mother. (b) Urgent ne-
cessity for a knowledge of the sin and
danger of destroying pre-natal life. (c)
Danger of marking children greatly exag-
gerated, mothers should not permit their
thoughts to dwell on unpleasant and disa-
greeable things. (d) Duty of mothers to cul-


tivate the qualities they wish their children
to possess.

Lecture II.

	(a) Necessity of society, one’s proper com-
panionship for pregnant women. (b) Pro-
priety of going out during this period. (c)
Folly of false modesty. (d) Dress hygienic
and becoming. (e) No corsets or tight
bands. (f) Clothing suspended from the
shoulders. (g) Rubbing with oil to relieve
tension of abdominal muscles.

Lecture III.

	(a) Abundant exercise. (b) Daily walks.
(c) How to avoid constipation by correct
diet. (d) Plenty of fresh fruit and pure
water. (e) Abstain from tea, coffee, and
all drugs and stimulants, live according to
nature.

Lecture IV.—Heredity.

	(a) Grave responsibilities of parents. (b)
Injustice to children who are forced to in-
herit disease and sin. (c) Necessity of a
prayerful united effort on the part of parents
to overcome tendencies, whether physical,
moral or mental, that they may not be trans-
mitted to their children. (d) Rights of
children to be well born. 

Lecture V.—Care of Mother after confine-
ment.

	(a) She should insist on perfect ventilation
and scrupulous cleanliness. (b) Also abso-
lute quiet and freedom from care. (c) Mild
and simple diet of such a nature as will pre-
vent constipation. (d) Tea and coffee are
harmful in their effects. (e) No stimulants
unless ordered by a competent physician.
(e) No callers should be permitted.

Lecture VI.—Care of the Infant.

	(a) No water for the first bath. (b)
Thorough rubbing with oil applied with a
soft cloth followed by careful wiping. (c)
No food except the contents of the mother’s
breast and warm water which has been
previously boiled. (d) Don’t waken a child
to exhibit to visitors. (e) Avoid strong light,
tight bands and too much clothing. (f)
Also clothes unnecessarily long. (g) Give
frequent and thorough rubbing with the
hand, (h) Regular nursing is important.
	ALVIRA L. COX, President R.S.


The U. S. D. R. met May 16 at the home
of Mrs. George A. Smith. The rooms
were elaborately decorated with the Stars
and Stripes, Society colors, pictures and
the flags of nearly all the European coun-
tries. Regent Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney
Sears presided and after the usual prelimin-
aries Mrs. Sears read an entertaining sketch
of the life of Nathan Hale of revolutionary
fame. Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth followed
with a poem to his memory written by a
daughter of the Revolution Virginia Frayer
Bayle, Miss Wells gave the courtship of
this celebrated hero. There were present
as guests Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards, Mrs.
Lucy Smith Acomb and Mrs. Charles W.
Nibley. The meeting was very enjoyable
and after adjournment delicious refresh-
ments were served to all in a dainty fashion
and a social hour was made particularly
pleasant.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]el
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1904


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

This number of the paper completes the
thirty-second volume of the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, and we cannot but congratulate
the women of Utah in having had a voice
in the press of this Western land so many
years. It is the oldest woman’s paper in
the West and has done good service for the
Rocky Mountain region in standing for po-
litical equality, and the higher education of
women, as well as for her moral, social and
industrial advancement; not only these, but
for the principles of truth and righteous-
ness, as contained in the Blble, also in the
Book of Mormon, and the revelations given
in this last dispensation through the Proph-
et Joseph Smith and other inspired men.
The paper has been a potent factor in
helping forward the organizations of women
in many lines; formerly it was the only
paper to stand for the asoociations, and in
looking over the early numbers one finds
much of interest pertaining not only to the
Relief Society, the Retrenchment Associa-
tion, the Primary, the Kindergarten, the
Silk Association, the Deseret Hospital, the
Woman’s Cooperative Store, and so on; and
it contains almost a complete history of
woman’s work in Utah, and matters per-
taining thereto.
It has done good educational work for
the people young and old; some of our best
writers today made their first appearance in
the columns of the Woman’s Exponent.
Although we have many other papers taking
up the different subjects in special lines, yet
the Woman's Exponent is as much needed
as ever it was, for where we only had a few
people to read, we now have many, and
a great variety is needed to meet the de-
mand. And while we may acknowledge
that it is not all that we could desire it to
be, let us try to make it better and more ac-
ceptable by giving it substantial support.
That is exactly what is needed.
If the sisters in the Relief Society would
urge the members everywhere to take the
paper and pay for it, there would soon be a
very radical change in its appearance and
the regularity of issues each month.
Much space has been taken in publishing
the Outlines of Lectures since the com-
mencement of the mother’s work in the
society and other matters have been left
out, but as much care as possible has been
taken by the editor in adjusting copy satis-
factorily. We have not been able to give as
much space for reports as heretofore,but hope
we can do more in the future. And here we


may perhaps explain that it is impossible
to publish even brief reports of all the Stake
conferences held during the year. In the
future we shall be obliged to condense re-
ports of meetings more than ever before
because we have more Stakes of Zion, more
missions, more meetings; and we must
necessarily have a few other things to make
variety.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

We are happy to be able to state that our
beloved mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, is very much improved in health,
and we hope and trust will soon be well
enough to visit among the sisters and speak
in the Relief Society conferences of the new
stakes of Zion recently organized, because
of the division of the Salt Lake Stake over
which she presided more than a quarter of
a century.
Since the April conference the General
Board and missionary sisters have visited
several Stake Conferences of the Relief
Society. Blackfoot (a new stake) was vis-
ted by Emily S Richards and Priscilla
Smith; Cache and Hyrum Stakes by Mary
Alice Lambert and Elizabeth J. Stevenson;
Benson and Oneida by Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Rebecca E. Little; Beaver by Sophia
T. Nuttall and Elizabeth S. Wilcox; Malad
Stake and Washakie by Elizabeth J. Steven-
son; Jordan by Phebe Y. Beatie and Carrie
S. Thomas; Box Elder by Mary Alice Lam-
bert; Emery, Elizabeth J. Stevenson and
Carrie S. Thomas; Taylor and Alberta in
Canada, by Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Louise L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY PARTY BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	A very pleaaant party was given in the
parlors of the Bee Hive House (the official
residence of the President of the Church) in
honor of the 82nd anniversary of the birth-
day of the General President of the Relief
Society, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. The
arrangements of the affair as we understand
were in the hands of her nieces, and some
of the Temple sisters. The decorations
were mostly carnations and roses, of these
82 carnations were given by the sisters as-
sociated with her as their President in the
Temple; other ladies gave a variety of
beautiful flowers and a number of other
presents, useful and ornamental.
	Sister Smith is very widely known and
dearly loved, she is a pioneer woman in ex-
perience and practical economy in all the
departments of home life. In carding, spin-
ning, dyeing and weaving in early days
here, she was an adept, and in cutting and
making all household wearing apparel,
table and bed linen, carpets, etc.—no one
surpassed her in skill and ingenuity as far as
we know. In the organizations among wo-
men old and young she has had an active
part and though both temporal and spirit-
ual in character has maintained an even bal-
ance, and yet has always been a good equal
suffragist. Like her illustrious husband,
who was one of the foremost men of his
time, she believed in equal rights, and in
doing things, more than in talking about
doing things.
	The day was not auspicious so far as the
weather for it rained, rained, rained, and
literally poured at last, reminding one of
Longfellow’s Rainy Day:

[Column 2]
“The day is cold and dark and dreary,
It rains and the wind is never weary,
Thy fate is the common fate of all;
Into each life some rain must fall,
Some days must be dark and dreary.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, the honored
guest, looked like a queen among her
“maids of honor," ladies of the court, and
the sisters vied with each other in bestow-
ing honor on one so worthy, as this venerable
woman of more than four-score years, whose
countenance beamed with love and good-
will towards all.
	The conversation was general and there
were some charming musical selections
given on the piano by Miss Roberts—Miss
May Merrill, grandaughter of the guest of
honor gave a humorous recitation “Wo-
man’s Rights.” Miss Priscilla Smith also
recited one of a similar style.
	Dainty refreshments were served by
young girls and the President Joseph F.
Smith and his Counselors John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund came in for an hour
or so and partook of the repast and partici-
pated in the social conversation. President
Winder pronounced the blessing.
	The hearty congratulations, good wishes
and blessings Sister Smith received during
the afternoon, and the love expresed for her
amounted to an ovation rarely given to any
one, and it was all genuine in tone and sen-
timent, truly she deserves it all and far more.
Her long life has been one of devotion to
duty and full of integrity to the Gospel and
the cause of Zion. May she live yet many
years to enjoy the love and friendship of
those among whom she has labored so long,
and to see Zion redeemed, and the dearest
wishes of her heart realized, and may her
life grow brighter as time goes on, for she
has earned rich blessings.
“Who soweth good seed shall surely reap;
The year grows rich as it groweth old;
And life’s latest sands are its sands of gold.”


A PLEASANT PARTY.

One of the most congenial meetings of
dear friends and renewing of acquaintances
was at a party given by Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts in the spacious parlors of her new
home on C. street in this city, Thursday
May 5, at 2. p. m. It was in every respect
a restful gathering, as we remember it was
called a Kensington, but only a few of the
very industrious ladies had work in their
hands. The rest of us were only talking
to and admiring and complimenting each
other and the hostess, who had made it
possible for us to have this rare opportun-
ity under such favorable circumstances.
About fifty ladies were invited, and per.
haps forty were present. The decorations
were roses, carnations and lilacs, and the
entire suite of rooms were simply beautiful;
The musical part of the entertainment was
delightful to all lovers of good singing.
Mrs Leslie W. Snow sang in her most
charming way “Tell Me” and “For All
Eternity,’’ afterwards, Mrs. Maggie Freeze
Bassett,one of our favorite singers rendered
in a sweet voice “My Rose Marie,’’ and
“The Old Man’s Dream.” Miss Larson
a very popular soloist, gave in her clear
melodious voice “O, Dry Those Tears,”
“Speak Love”“Cavellieria Rusticana” and
Jenny Lind’s Swedish song by which she
gained such popularity. The music added
greatly to the enjoyment of the afternoon.
Dainty refreshments were served on small
tables the ladies being congenially seated


though nearly all were friends of long
standing, and the social intercourse was the
real charm of the gathering, and over the
teacup or over the chocolate it is expected
ladies express their views freely. However
one need only say the entire affair including
conversation, music, vocal and instrumental
tea and service and all the accompaniments
from going inside the door to the leave tak-
ing “speed the parting guest,” was an
afternoon to be remembered for years after-
wards, and the writer often thinks serious-
ly in these gatherings of our sisters, shall
we who are here today all ever meet again?
Let us hope however, that we who assem-
bled at the Doctor’s party may meet again
as happily as on that day. It seems formal
to add that common-place saying;

‘‘Blest be that spot, where cheerfnl guests retire,
To pause from toil around the evening fire
Blest that abode where want and pain repair,
And every stranger finds a ready chair.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	93


BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

The nineteenth of April ult., was the
81st anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Pierce Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, and herself a pioneer of
1847, coming into the valley in the famous
company that followed the pioneers in May
1847, and located the “Old Fort” on Pio-
neer Square. Her father and mother, Bro-
ther and Sister Pierce, also brought with
them in company with their daughter Mar-
garet, Sister Eliza R. Snow, companion for
Sister Margaret, her own sister Mary hav-
ing died in Winter Quarters.
Margaret P. Young was born in and
reared in Chester Co., Penn, of Quaker par-
entage and still retains much of that native
simplicity of manner and speech always no-
ticable and pleasing. Aunt Margaret as
she is familiarly called by those who know
her intimately, is still active in mind and
body, and is fond of company and of society
and able to do her own cooking and enjoys
household employments. She is also a work-
er in the Salt Lake Temple.
The evening of her birthday, about forty
or fifty guests, relatives and friends assem-
bled at the residence of her son, Elder B.
Morris Young (by invitation), Sister Young
has resided, since leaving the famous “Lion
House” where she spent most of her life,
in the house with her son; the rooms were
all opened for the occasion and prettily dec-
orated with flowers and plants. Among the
guests were President Joseph F. Smith, Dr.
Seymour B. Young, President Frank Y.
Taylor, Bishop Millen C. Attwood, Patri-
arch McGee, Elders Louis Kelch, George
Crismon and Counselor Noah S. Pond of
Pocatello Stake and other brethren. Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith of the general
Relief Society, Sisters Julina L. and Edna
L. Smith Amelia F. and Lizzie Riter
Young, Annie Taylor Hyde and several
other sisters, old friends and true, and many
other women. There was some good music
interspersed with conversation which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, old times
and doings of other days.
Sister Margaret was the recipient of a
number of presents and of many warm con-
gratulations and good wishes for years to
come. The feeling of genuine hospitality
was delightful and the coming together of
old friends is always a sort af inspiration
and the hours flew swiftly by. The refresh-
ments prepared and served by Sister Ar-
meda S. Young were delicious, and the


geniality of spirit that characterized the
whole affair was restful and most enjoyable.
The writer on her own account and as ed-
itor of this little paper adds her congratula-
tions and good wishes, having known Aunt
Margaret intimately for many long years
and in joy and in sorrow has always found
her the same loyal friend.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
The April conference of the General Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall,
in this city, Saturday, April 2, meetings
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as
usual. The stand was prettily decorated
with plants and the elegant Relief Society
banner hung on the organ looked very ap-
propriate.
President Bathsheba W. Smith and all
the general officers and several members of
the General Board were on the platform.
President B. W. Smith presiding.
Conference opened with the hymn: “How
firm a foundation.” etc. Mrs. Maggie C.
Hull, leading, Miss Lottie Owen, assist-
ing, Mrs. Maria Francis, accompanist.
Prayer by the secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Je-
hovah.”
President B. W. Smith addressed the sis-
ters.
“My dear sisters, I greet you with a
happy greeting, this is a fine looking con-
gregation, I love the Relief Society and I
pray the Lord to direct our efforts in the
labor of love in which we are engaged,
laboring for the sick, the poor and the
needy, and may we lay up treasures in
heaven, and none ever step aside from the
path of truth and righteousness. I pray
the Lord to direct every word that shall be
spoken. We will have to make our speech-
es short, and we must condense our
thoughts. I believe in short speeches and
short prayers. May the Spirit of the Lord
be in this assembly. Amen ”
President Rebecca Rawlins Benson
stake: In our stake the poor have been
especially well looked after in our wards the
past winter. The Mother’s work has been
a great help in bringing out many. We
sent three nurses to the last nurse class, and
that has only made us feel that we
need more The doctors found them very
efficient helps. The more we do the more
we find to do.
President Susannah P. Booth, Box Elder
Stake: We are working in love and union.
We number nineteen branches. The
president at Park Valley died this last
winter. We have not yet started to visit in
the outside settlements, but intend starting
as soon as the weather will permit. We
have been called upon to make 150 yards
of carpet for the Logan Temple, also our
president of Box Elder Stake wants us to
make 150 yards for our Tabernacle in
Brigham City. We joined with the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. to buy the carpet for the Taber-
nacle. Mothers cannot always leave their
little folks to go to meeting, and we sym-
thize with the mothers who cannot get to
the meetings.
President Mary A. Sorenson, Emery
Stake: We have a noble band of workers.
We have started the mothers work. We sent
our outline to be approved and have had it
back again and scattered copies among the
sisters, and the Y. L. M. I. A. are helping
their mothers. If we find aged sisters who
cannot attend the meetings we take the

[Column 2]
meetings to them. We sent two nurses to 
the class in Salt Lake and wished we could
do more. The sisters are doing much good
in charity with their cash and merchan-
dise, and we are working in union. The
Bishops meet with us and the Presidency
of the Stake also.
Counselor Elizabeth S. Critchlow, Hy-
rum Stake: We have visited all our
branches, and we hold officers’ meetings
monthly; have not started our Mothers’
work, but have had our outline printed, it
will bring in a great many young moth-
ers. We have our wheat stored in a good
place. Sometimes the meetings are taken
to the homes of the sisters who cannot at-
tend, and it seems to do good.
President Artemissia S. Seegmiller,Kanab
Stake: Our stake is fully organized, and
all are doing good work. We are just
getting started in the Mother’s work. Our
young mothers cannot attend meetings
much during the school year, and the
young people generally are occupied with
Mutual Improvement and Sunday school
work. We are not storing grain as we do
not raise in that locality what we consume.
May the Lord give us the spirit of this
work.
President Marinda Bateman, Jordan
Stake: We are doing all we can in taking
care of the poor and the sick and in stor-
ing grain, and we sent three competent
nurses to be trained, and we are anxious to
have quite a number more. We are trying
to do every duty and keep pace with others
in the work.
Sister Hull and Sister Burton sang a
duet which was very beautiful.
President Annie S. Musser, Liberty
Stake, felt weak in her new position, she
had called two meetings, had worked with
the Y. L M. I A. for the last five years,
but her sympathies had always been called
out to the poor. She felt to do the best she
could, relying upon the Lord in the per-
formance of her duties.
President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake; We are trying to fulfill all
requirements, and I am happy to say that
the young sisters are much interested in
the Mother’s work; our older sisters are
laboring and doing all they can for the
sick, they are doing a noble work in this
direction. We visit through the stake once
a year, and we are all united.
Counselor Jane Holt, Davis Stake: We
have commenced the Mother’s work, and
are doing all we can in other directions in
storing wheat and in caring for those who
need assistance. We have not done much
visiting of late on account of the sickness of
Brother Grant. We hope to be diligent
and faithful in all things.
President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake: The Stake Board and workers are
united with each other. Our attendance
has improved since we have had the Moth-
er’s work, and the work has been beneficial.
We have some grain stored, and we are
contributing towards the Woman’s Build-
ing, and the sisters are all anxious and try-
ing io enlarge the subscription for the EX-
PONENT. We have it in each ward in our
meetings, on our tables, so that the sisters
can get all the instruction possible.
President Elizabeth DeLong, Panguitch
Stake: We are working in perfect har-
mony, our branches are fully organized,
but we have long distances to travel and
cannot visit any in the winter, it is so very
cold and dangerous even for men. Our
main object is charity and Mother’s work


[column 1]
secondary, but we are interested in it. We
read from the Church works and the EX-
PONENT in our meetings, and try to carry
out the instructions given for our benefit.
	Sister Margaret Hull then favored the
audience with a solo beautifully rendered,
“Sometime, Somewhere.”
	President Alvira L. Cox was especially
pleased to hear the sweet music of the
singers of Zion. Reported the stake all in
good running order. Hold conferences
once in three months. It is very interesting
to hear the uniformity of the reports given
here. Mother’s work has been the means
of bringing out many young sisters. In
our stake some branches are building more
granaries, for our granaries are full to over-
flowing. The presidents are always at
meetings unless detained by sickness.
	Mary Swindle, secretary Monroe Stake:
We have a good band of sisters. Ours is a
large stake, nineteen branches. We al-
ways visit once a year. Our meetings are
very well attended. We have testimonies
first and then the lectures on Mother’s
work. We have quite a large quantity of
wheat and considerable money on hand to
buy more.
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the sis-
ters briefly, had been called upon unex-
pectedly. Mentioned her pleasure in hear-
ing the good reports from far away stakes,
realized the sisters were faithful and dili-
gent, wished there was time to hear from
all, felt we were greatly blest in this good-
ly land.
	Sister Margaret Salmon reported for Sum-
mit Stake. Stated that the president, Ce-
lestia Y. Pack her board and assistants made
a point of going around visiting all branches,
they worked in perfect harmony. In the
Mother’s work they had taken up literary
subjects and lectures on the Women of the
Bible. We had a nurse class taught in our
stake, and have a number of very efficient
nurses.
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson, Teton Stake:
We endeavor to visit our branches twice a
year, and the sisters are united and are
greatly blessed in their labors; we have not
a large amount of grain on hand; our stake
is somewhat new, but we are trying to
serve the Lord, asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all present.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch Stake:
Our sisters are united and all the branches
are in good working order, our Mother’s
work is splendid, many young sisters are
joining; still our main work is looking af-
ter the sick and the needy; we have con-
siderable grain stored, the Lord has abun-
dantly blest us, we visit our stake twice a
year.
	Sister Leah Blackburn, Wayne Stake,
made a good report, especially in regard to
the grain on hand, and said they visited
among the sick and needy.
	President Sarah Tyson, Woodruff Stake:
This was her first report, the stake had
been reorganized last summer; she had
visited all around since, traveled over six
hundred miles but found them all in good
order; she had been traveling two nights to
come to the conference; was pleased to be
present; had not yet begun Mother’s work,
but they were ready to do so.
	Congregation sang, “Zion stands on hills
surrounded,” dismissed with prayer by
President Emma S. Woodruff. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m.
_______

	Afternoon session: President B. W.
Smith presiding. Singing by members of

[column 2]
the Temple choir, Prof C. J. Thomas lead-
ing, duet “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.” Prayer by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, sing-
ing “Sometime, Somewhere,” Sister Maria
B. Winder and Sister Lottie Owen.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was the
first speaker. It is quite an inspiring sight
to see so many present, and I am sure that
it will be an inspiration to our president to
have so many gathered together, we have
been trying to get a little closer together
this time, by giving a luncheon today, try
to love each other more and become better
acquainted with one another, we should
criticize ourselves, and try to improve, have
a system and work and plan ahead. The
Lord will ask us to give an account of the
way in which we train our children. This
planning and arranging beforehand will
help us to progress, and we must not stand
still. Sister Hyde asked the blessing of
the Lord upon all and peace, love and con-
tentment to abide with us.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang in her
sweet voice “Ave Maria,” accompanied by
Mrs. Kate Romney Stewart, the music was
very uplifting.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, after
speaking of her desire to get nearer to the
sisters, she related the story of the devotion
of a young girl and of the amphitheatre at
Rome when so many of the saints were
thrown to the hungry wild beasts to be torn
in pieces, how she was entreated by her
father, how he plead with her to give up
her faith that she might be spared to him,
he was old and feeble and gray-headed, and
he needed her, and after his persuading and
beseeching her, she said, “Yes, she could
give it up but the spirit within her could
not.” It is the spirit within us that helps
us to be diligent and faithful and zealous
in the Lord’s work. Charity, what a great
word it is, how much it conveys to us all,
who are engaged in the Relief Society
work; spoke of a conversation she had recent-
ly with a strange lady about our organiza-
tions and how astonished she was to learn
what we were doing. Sister Dusenberry
believed in strewing flowers in the pathway
of our workers, and not waiting until they
are dead to do them honor, their lives may
be barren of pleasure, let us show our ap-
preciation while they still live.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams said this was
a magnificent audience; we are all working
for our salvation in the heavenly kingdom,
striving to be true mothers and true wives.
The Ave Maria that Sister Pugsley sang
appeals to me; how many of us have sent
up that prayer to our Heavenly Father.
“Humility is one of the chief things to
help us to obtain favor and blessings;” she
also dwelt upon unity, her prayers were
constantly for the Relief Society, for our
Father in heaven to direct us by His Holy
Spirit to do right.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox felt if we were
to separate here and go to our homes, we
had heard so much it would be a feast; so
many songs that had been uplifting to our
spirits, so much in the music, and in the
words; this great audience is a witness of
the interest in this Relief Society work.
The maternal instinct is developed by the
work we have undertaken in the Society,
even in those who have not children of
their own, and those who are denied this
world's good, the rich poor, and the poor
rich. Our Father does not give us these
longings, not to have them realized, “Some-
time, Somewhere.” The practical work of
the Society will so extend that many more

[column 3]
will feel its benefits. Referred to a society
where they made plain clothes for children,
thought it a very useful thing, many
mothers would be glad to buy good plain
clothing, when they could not have time to
do the needle work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little felt it a pleasure
to meet and shake hands with those who
came twice a year to the general assem-
blies; “The veterans who belonged to the
generation that preceded us have made such
untold sacrifices and practiced such self-
denial for their religion that their descend-
ants should have some of it in them,” re-
lated some striking incidents of personal
self-sacrifice and spoke of attending a fu-
neral recently of a sister who had presided
over a society 35 years and in all that time
had never refused a call made upon her.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon loved the Re-
lief Society and had always loved it, was
proud to think of the great work that had
been accomplished, and the growth of the
organization now numbering something like
33,000. “I am glad that my mother has
been engaged in this great charity,” related
the story of a Captain’s widow and two
little children, who was sick with consump-
tion the Relief Society cared for her and at
her death took care of the children, what a
comfort it was to the dying woman to know
they would be provided for. Sister Cannon
spoke of the Mothers’ Congress here some
years ago and the woman who came ex-
pressly to teach patriotism to our children;
but found there was no occasion whatever
for her teaching, the speaker felt that in
the Mother’s Work we should teach patrio-
tism and good citizenship, it was always in-
teresting to the little ones to talk of the flag,
its thirteen stripes and forty-five stars.
	Sister Cannon also spoke of the nurse
class felt it to be an important step in the
right direction.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne said it is
always a pleasure to commune with the
saints, dwelt upon charity and the need we
have to exercise it, thought we should drop
our sorrows and cease repining, we must be
more companionable to our children, we
have to contend with the spirit of darkness;
we should be stronger than any other wo-
men, because our husbands have to go
away upon missions and we need more
strength than others. We must save our
strength so we can give some of it in our
Relief Society to help the work. Sister
Horne spoke upon the home and what it
should mean to our children.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth thought
we as mothers did not appreciate the advan-
tages of the age in which we are living.
The mother begins the process of training
with the infant in her arms she fills her
children with the principle of love; as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, we have every
opportunity to gain the confidence and love
of our sisters. I pray that we may go on
in this way and instruct our children not
only in the Gospel, but in patriotism; we
know we are descended from the makers of
this great union, and our boys were among
the finest soldiers in the Phillipines, and we
have every reason to be proud of their rec-
ord, let us do our duty faithfully to our
families, and our Relief Society.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, spoke of the re-
ports given in the morning, how systematic
and business-like they were made; thought
our sisters showed their ability; spoke of re-
porting the Relief Society at the Nation’s
capital, referred to the woman who came
here to teach mothers and was now the


[Column 1]
prime mover in the Smoot case; related the 
story of the woman who made great pre-
paration for a distinguished guest and re-
fused to help those, who came to her dur-
ing the day because of expecting this great 
man but when she was worn out with work 
and waiting and had retired for the night, 
he visited her and she asked him, why he 
did not come as he had said he would, and 
he answered, that he had visited her three 
times during the day and each time had 
been turned away; the good we can do for 
others is the greatest good we can do; she 
thought the way to make our children love 
us is to let them help us. 
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie said she had been 
asked to speak of the nurse class, she felt it 
had been a great success this last year and 
hoped it would accomplish even more this 
year, and that the Presidents of Stakes will 
try to get good, virtuous, high-minded young 
women to take the nurse course of training; 
said you all remember Aunt Zina how 
night after night and day after day she 
visited the sick and the dying and brought 
comfort into hundreds of homes. Let us 
emulate her example and be comforters and 
do good as she did, and let us learn how to 
do these things well. 
President Jane S. Richards felt we had 
enjoyed a great feast here today, it does me 
a world of good to think we can meet and 
give each other a greeting; spoke beauti-
fully of visiting the humble, some are not 
so well off in this world's goods, but that 
don't need to make any difference, try and 
hunt up those that no one else finds and 
seek to do them good even if they do not 
belong to the church. "I know a woman 
who goes to see every one that is sick and 
poor and don't get a chance to go to meet-
ings and she hires a carriage and takes them 
out riding; she don't go visiting and take 
tea with her neighbors, but she does do 
good to those in need; Sister Richards spoke 
of President Young coming in once when 
she was sick, had been sick over a year and 
what comfort the visit gave her; there was 
an old couple she always sent for twice a 
year to her home and they always had a 
little meeting. Afterwards spoke of the work 
of the Society in her own stake and the good 
feeling that existed there and closed by say-
ing, "May we live faithful and not be 
afraid to go home when we are called is my 
prayer." 
Sister E. B. Wells felt more then delight-
ed to see such a magnificent congregation, 
said it is a compliment to our President her 
associates and to the organization itself. 
Some of the sisters have been detained at 
home by sickness, Sister Horne has been 
ill all winter, and Sister Susan Grant one 
of our best Presidents who should have 
spoken here today, has a very sick son. 
Speaking of doing good to each other made 
her think of the love feast given in Kirtland 
by Bishop N. K. Whitney and his wife 
when they invited all the poor and lame 
and afflicted to the feast and the Prophet 
Joseph Smith came and sat at the table with 
them and partook of the hospitality extend-
ed to them, and he blest and comforted them 
greatly. 
President Jos. F. Smith was invited to 
come to this conference but was too busy,
—the great pressure of business prevent-
ed him. It is a great thing to preside over 
the Relief Society, the sun never sets on the 
Relief Society it extends around the world. 
Our President wishes me to present the 
names of the general officers to be voted up-
on here. 

[Column 2]
The secretary presented them and they 
were sustained unanimously. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson said, "I love this 
work I have been greatly interested today 
in the excellent things we have heard, the 
Lord bless you my sisters and may His 
spirit be with you all. If I had twelve 
daughters I would want every one of them 
to take the course in nursing. May peace 
and union and charity dwell among you is 
my prayer. 
President B. W. Smith, made a few clos-
ing remarks hoped all had time enough 
to talk, was glad and rejoiced to see so 
many at the conference; blest all with peace 
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon 
the congregation. 
Singing, "Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow" dismissed with prayer by 
Sister Priscilla Jennings. Conference ad-
journed for six months. 
E. B. WELLS, General Secretary. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL QUINQUENNIAL. 
(CONCLUDED.) 
A Third very important proposition seeks 
to secure the proper representation not only 
of different nationalities, but of different
races in the official corps of the Council. It 
is proposed that the constitution be so 
amended as to prohibit the International 
Council from having any two of the five 
chief executive officers from the same coun-
try and also from having any two of the 
five chief executive officers from the same 
race. 
It is evident from the propositions that 
have been sent in that there will be work 
enough to fill full the week of mornings 
and the half week of afternoons or evenings 
that have been reserved for business. 
As has before been announced, there are 
to be three Public Sessions of the Conncil.
For the first of these the program in gen-
eral will be as follows:—
a) Welcome by the President of the Ger-
man Council.
b) Brief response by the President of the 
International Council who will then intro-
duce the General officers, the Presidents of 
Affiliated National Councils and the Hon-
orary Vice-Presidents representing countries 
where Council organization is in progress.
Each of these will present a brief greeting 
after which the address of the International 
President will be given. 
The Second Public Session will occur on 
the evening of Thursday June 9th when 
each of the Affiliated National Councils will 
be represented in a speech of six minutes 
by a person specially elected for that purpose. 
The "Speaking Representative" for the 
United States will be Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston who will be present as will 
also her Alternate Mrs. Isabella Charles 
Davis of New York. The list of "Speaking 
Representatives" for this occasion will be 
furnished later to the papers. 
The Evening of Friday June 10th will be 
devoted to the advocacy of Peace and Arbi-
tration, when speeches will be delivered in 
the three official languages of the Council; 
Lady Aberdeen delivering the address in 
English, Madame Bogelot of France, that 
in French, and Baroness Bertha von Sutt-
ner that in German. 
So long and full a program of business 
as will be presented at the Executive cannot 

[Column 2]
be given in detail here. This outline will 
be sufficient to indicate its character and the 
interest which will attach to it. 
The week following the Council will be 
occupied by the International Congress con-
vened under the auspices of the Interna-
tional Council. Of this the complete pro-
gram upon which the German Committee 
has been working assiduously for many 
months is almost complete and later will be 
published in its entirety. At this writing, 
it is sufficient to say that the four sections 
into which, as previously announced, the 
Congress is divided will hold simultaneously 
six sessions each on the successive morn-
ings of that week, while the program for 
the evenings when the Congress will be 
assembled as a whole, instead of in sections 
will be as follows:—
Monday, June 13th—“The Present Stat-
us of the Woman's Movement in all Organ-
ized Lines." 
Tuesday, June 14th—“Frauen lohne.”
Thursday, June 16th—“The Relation of 
the Woman's Movement to Political Parties 
and Religious Sects." 
Friday, June 17th — “Woman’s Suff-
rage." 
Saturday, June 18th—“The Underlying
Principles and the Aims of the Woman's 
Movement." 
In relation to social functions concerning 
which I have received many inquiries, so
far as the Council is concerned, there will 
be an official reception given to it by the 
German Council on the evening of June 
8th, and there will be many other official 
and non-official social affairs from June 6th 
to June 11th, inclusive, while the evening
of Wednesday June 15th has been chosen 
by the German Committee of Arrangements 
for the official reception to the Congress. 
The President is in receipt of information
which leads her to believe that the Inter-
national Council will be received with the
greatest possible hospitality at the German 
capital, but it is premature at this time to 
announce with more definiteness anything 
concerning the social functions. 
In reply to many inquiries, I will say 
that it is not in accordance with the Ger-
man custom to charge an admission fee, to 
sell tickets, rent boxes or anything of this 
kind for such public meetings, so the public 
meetings will be free to all. 
During Council week, there will be, of 
course, only one meeting at a time in pro-
gress excepting when the meetings of 
Standing and Special Committees are con-
vened, and as the more distant countries 
will very likely be represented by the same 
woman on more than one such committees 
an attempt will be made to make even these
meetings successive rather than simultan-
eous in so far as is possible. 
The Business Sessions of the Council are 
not open to the public. In reply to many 
inquiries as to who are eligible to sit in the 
Executive Sessions of the Council, I will 
say that those who are entitled to a vote on 
the Executive are only the following:—
(a) The General Officers. 
(b) The President of each affiliated Na-
tional Council or her Proxy. 
(c) Two delegates from each affiliated 
National Council or their respective Alter-
nates.
Although these are the only ones with a 
constitutional right to vote, there may also 
be present the following: —
(a) Chairman of all Standing Commit-
tees. 
(b) Honorary Vice-Presidents.


(c) International Patrons. 
(d) The special member appointed by 
each Council to represent it on the Com-
mitee of Arrangements. 
The classes above enumerated have a con-
stitutional right to be present with or with-
out a vote as indicated. 
The President of the International will 
also invite to be present: 
(a) The Speaking Representatives from 
each Council where such representative is 
not included in any of the foregoing lists. 
(b) All members of all of the five Inter-
national Committees. 
(c) All Proxies and Alternates for the 
voting members of the Executive even 
though the latter be also present. 
(d) Also the four members elected or ap-
pointed by each affiliated National Council 
to attend the Quinquennial and Congress as 
"Hearers." 
It will easily be seen that with twenty
countries already in the Council, there is a 
possibility for a very large assembly of wo-
men each of whom will have some vital offi-
cial relation to the Council. 
There has been some anxiety expressed 
by Americans lest the German papers might 
not give a helpful degree of publicity to the 
proceedings of the Council and Congress. 
No anxiety need be felt upon this point. It 
has been already arranged with the great 
German newspapers that they shall send 
competent reporters to all meetings that are 
open to the public, while to the other pap-
ers in Germany and to papers outside of the 
Empire official reports will be forwarded. 
The preparation of these reports will be en-
trusted to a commission of a few skillful 
journalists to be selected by the German 
Committee of Arrangements. 
As for the American contingent, as nearly 
as I can judge from letters received, there 
will be in the neighborhood of a hundred 
and fifty women in attendance upon the 
Council and Congress at Berlin. Many of 
these have already sailed, having gone over 
in little groups from time to time for a 
month or two of travel prior to the opening 
of the Council. From present advices, I 
think, that in the neighborhood of fifty 
Council women will sail on Friederich der 
Grosse on May 19th. 
Having tried to reply as briefly as poss-
ible in order to clear up all the perplexity, 
which seems to hang about this subject, 
with many of my correspondents, I now so-
licit further letters of inquiry from anyone 
who may read this article, who desires in-
formation not herein furnished. To promote 
"The New Internationalism" that "Inter-
nationalism" which is co operative instead 
of competitive, peaceful instead of bellige-
rent, and which results in honest friendship 
instead of jealous rivalry, is the object of 
the International Council whose President 
believes that this object will be almost im-
measurably promoted by the meetings that 
will occupy the time from the 6th to the 
20th of June 1904. 
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL. 
President of the International Council of 
Women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 9, 1904, at 
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake 
City. Those desiring to attend will 
please communicate personally or by 
letter. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said 
interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 Main Street. 
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY 
AND NURSING.
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her 
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904. 
One student free. Write for particulars. 
This class recommended by the General 
Board of the Relief Society.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM
Sister Martha Proctor, who departed this life 
after a lingering illness, on March 22, 1904, was an 
efficient teacher for many years in the Union 
Ward, Jordan Stake Relief Society, which position 
she filled with honor, till failing health caused her 
to cease her labors. She was a woman of sterling
qualities. 
When a girl she was a mother to her father's 
motherless children, and came to the valley in the 
early fifties, and lived at the home of Squire Wells, 
where she was married from to David Proctor.
She leaves a husband, five children, twenty-four 
grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren.
The speakers at her funeral were many, includ-
ding Brother Rulon S, Wells. All testified to her 
integrity and great love for her family and friends. 
The singing by the choir was lovely and appropri-
ate. The opening prayer was offered b Elder 
John Sharp, the closing one by Elder Henry Brown 
of South Cottonwood. 
The ward meeting house was beautifully draped 
and the lovely flowers showed the esteem in which 
our beloved sister was held by her many relatives 
and friends. 
The pall bearers were her grandsons. She was 
tenderly laid away In a vault at South Cottonwood, 
the grave being dedicated by Elder James Proctor. 
M. A. SMART, Pres. R. S. 
SISTER AGNES CUTLER. 
The grim reaper, death, visited the Jordan Stake 
Relief Society on March 9, 1904, and took from us 
our faithful and beloved stake counselor, Sister 
Agnes McGregor Cutler.
Sister Cutler was born August 13, 1843, at Bon-
hill Dumbarton, Scotland. Emigrated to America 
in 1849 with her parents, William and Ann Mc-
Gregor, crossed the plains with ox teams to Utah 
in 1852, and endured all the privations of pioneer 
life and settled in Salt Lake City. Married Broth-
er Harmon Cutler of West Jordan, December 19, 
1857; was the mother of five children, three sons 
and two daughters, one daughter and two sons 
survive her of the Cutler family. Harmon Cutler 
died in the year 1868, and she married Frederic A. 
Cooper, of West Jordan, in 1870. They had three 
children, two sons and one daughter, one son now 
living. She left three sons, one daughter, twelve 
grandchildren and hosts of relatives and friends to 
mourn. She died in Salt Lake City, at her sis-
ter's Mrs. Sarah Mitchell, on March 9, 1904. 
Sister Cutler was a natural Latter-day Saint, 
and was always an active and earnest worker and 
was noted for kindness and hospitality, and she 
never was so happy as when administering to the 
wants of the poor and comforting the down-
hearted. 
When the West Jordan Relief Society was or-
ganized in January, 1868, she was chosen one of 
the first teachers, which position she held until 
May 6, 1868, when she was elected second counse-
lor to President Althea Gardner. She was chosen 
first counselor to President Louise Egbert on Dec-
ember 12, 1880. She filled that position until July 
6, 1891, she was then chosen president of the West 
Jordan Relief Society, which position she filled 
with honor until the ward was divided in 1896; 
she was honorably released from being president 
of West Jordan and appointed president of East
Jordan, which office she held until Jan. 21, 1900;
she was then chosen second counselor to President 
Marinda Bateman in the Relief Society of the Jor-
dan Stake of Zion. 
Although we miss her kind and loving face from 
our midst, we know that our loss is her gain, and 
that she will be welcome on the other side by 
many loved ones, she has seen much sorrow and 
we feel that her death was hastened by the shock 
of hearing of the death of her dearly beloved son, 
Edward, who was accidently killed in a mine in 
Park City about three months before her death. 
Another cause of regret was the absence at her 
bedside and funeral of her only daughter, Eliza-
beth Williams, who was in Idaho, and could not 
be reached in time. 
Through all her trials and sorrow she was al-
ways cheerful and pleasant and never complained 
and died as she had lived, a true Latter-day Saint.
We mourn her absence, but rejoice in her rest, 

[Column 2]
for we know she will receive the reward of the 
faithful. 
MARINDA BATEMAN, Stake Pres.
ELIZABETH GARDNER, Sec.


YELLOW, PURPLE, WHITE.
LIBERTY, UNITY, FRATERNITY—PEACE
COLORS.
As decorations for the peace meetings 
the following suggestions are offered:
Flags may be used in every available 
space--the flag of our own country and the 
flags of any and all countries which can be 
had or can be made of simple materials at 
hand. In a particularly prominent place 
should hang the peace flag, which can be 
made by any one without much difficulty 
from simple materials. It is a tri color,
emblematic of liberty, unity and fraternity. 
Yellow is next to the flagstaff (which is 
blue) purple in the centre and then white 
at the end. The motto, "Pro concordia 
labor," (we work for peace) may be placed 
upon the flag; also an olive branch. Over 
the flag sheathed swords might be hung as 
an additional symbol of peace. Flowers 
and the colors used in the peace flag would 
be suitable for decoration. 
Any picture suggestive of peace would 
make appropriate decorations; as, for ex-
ample, the picture of Wm Penn's treaty 
with the Indians or the picture of Corn-
wallis surrendering at Yorktown. 
The committee in charge of the various 
meetings will know best what they have 
at their disposal with which to decorate, 
and this matter must be left largely to their 
discretion, but the foregoing suggestions 
may be of service to those who are in doubt 
how to proceed. 
ISABEL M. W. SEARS, 
MARY A. H. CANNON.

