	Journal Vol. 13, No. 12.

	The best conditions for securing an artistic home
are the combination of taste, good judgment, n-
genuity, with industry and little money.

Lecture IV.—Habits in the Home:

(a) Good.
		(a) Regularity of meals.
		(b) Regularity of rising and retir-
	ing, Doc. and Cov.
		(c) Order and neatness.
		(d) Word of Wisdom.
		(e) Proper language.
		(f) Courting: true, false.
		(g) Unselfishness.
(b) Bad.
	Form only good habits, that ye may have none
to reform.

Lecture V:

		(a) Respect to husbands Eph. v:
	22-25.
		(b) Respect to parents 5th com-
	mandment.

	As the wife respects the husband, so the child
respects the father.
	As Christ is the head of the Church, so man is
the head of the woman. 

VI.—Religious Devotion in the Home:

	(a) Time and place. 
	(b) Method of adopting.
	(c) Need of inspiration.


Sacred song invites the Holy Spirit. 
	Prayer invokes the blessings of God. 
	Knowledge obtained by hearing the word of 
God establishes faith in a child for Him and His 
works. 
	Faith once firmly rooted is not easily shaken. 
				—Extract, Francis M. Lyman. 

	PRESIDENT REBECCA C. RAWLINS,
	SECRETARY MARIA POND,
									Com.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY OF SISTER
			HOWE.

	Aside from the joyous festivities of the
wedding, there is perhaps no other social
gathering which gives more genuine pleas-
ure or greater satisfaction than the family
reunion, when the bride and groom of
former days are no longer peering into the
expected future of “What will be,” but are
gazing with pride on “What has been and
what is.”
	Such an occasion was the one arranged
by the children of Sister Julia C. Howe, on
the 17th of June last, in honor of the 80th
birthday of that estimable lady.
	The rooms were beautiful with their pro-
fusion of roses, whose fragrance pervaded
every nook. A delicious repast was served,
after which the company was grouped upon
the lawn to be photographed. Four gener-
ations were represented in the gathering
and it was the first time they had ever
been all together at one time.
	The evening was pleasantly spent in
social conversation by the elders, and games
by the young people. Many and hearty
were the good wishes expressed for the
guest of honor, whose life has been such a
beautiful example to all who know her.
					MAY BOOTH TALMAGE.


. LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular ladies meeting held in the
14th ward assembly rooms, Saturday, June
30, 1903, was well attended, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. After the usual
exercises of singing, prayer and reading of
minutes, Counselor Stevenson addressed
the meeting. She believed in giving honor
where honor was due, referred to the many
good sentiments in the hymns we sing, said
she had recently visited San Luis Stake in
Colorado, the people there were greatly
blessed of the Lord and spoke of their grati-
tude they enjoyed reading the EXPONENT.
She urged the sisters not to follow after the
fashions of the world,but teach our children
to appreciate what they have and not find
fault; spoke feelingly of the terrible cala-
mities taking place nowadays in the world,
hoped the Saints might be spared.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took pleasure
in hearing the testimonies of the sisters,
and spoke of the different opinions of peo-
ple regarding the Gospel, she felt it to be
the greatest riches we could have, and that
we should seek to have faith in God.
	Sisters Seamen, Read and Williamson
bore testimonies, also Sister Brown thought
we should improve our talents while here
and make a good record.
	Congregation sang “Who are these ar-
rayed in white.”
	Sister Jane C. Young said we ail come
here for a certain purpose, we should find
out what it is and do the work, it is not
good for the people of God to have much
riches, our children should not complain,
for the Lord is displeased with us if we do.


She urged the sisters to lay up grain, fo
she felt impressed it would be needed.
	Sisters Davis, Harvey, Gardner and
Jane James bore excellent testimonies.
	Sisters Fowler, Campbell and Nelson
felt to appreciate the blessings of the Gos-
pel, they had explained them to many
strangers.
	Sister Mary P. Silver urged all to trust
in the Lord and use the consecrated oil in
times of sickness and not put so much trust
in the doctors, but go to the Lord for help
at all times.
	Sister Hague said she had prayed to the
Lord to know the right way, and she was
at last converted by a Mormon missionary.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball spoke of the
Temple work, she and her brother and sis-
ter had officiated for ten thousand three
hundred and two persons, of their dead;
she urged all the young people to be mar-
ried in the Temple and receive their bless-
ing there. She quoted the sayings of
Peter, the Apostle,concerning the work for
the dead.
	Meeting adjourned with singing, and
benediction by Sister Frances Smith.
				AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	BINGHAM STAKE.

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Bingham Stake of
Zion, held at Lewisville, Idaho, on Satur-
day, May 9, 1903.
	There were present of the presidency:
Sister Emma J. Bennett, President Elvira
Steele, Counselors Anna Rockwood and
Elizabeth Brunt.
	Meeting at 10 a. m. Singing, “Redeem-
er of Israel.” Prayer by President Jas. E.
Steele. Singing, “Glorious things of thee
are spoken.”
	President Bennett in her opening re-
marks prayed that the Holy Spirit might be
with them during the meeting, and all have
an enjoyable time together.
	President Hannah Coles, of the Milo
Ward reported the society as being in har-
mony with their Bishop; owned their own
granary and lot, and were all united.
	The Grant Society was reported by Sister
Bramwell, who stated they, were united
with the Bishop and were all doing the
best that they could. President Margaret
Shippen reported the Eagle Rock Ward Re-
lief Society as having an excellent band of
sisters; believed all were trying to do their
duty.
	President Lucy Casper reported the Annis
Ward as having had considerable sickness,
so that they have not been able to do very
much, until now, when they had started
again.
	Iona was reported by President Mary
Herbert. Their society had lately been re-
organized on account of their president
having moved from the ward. Were in
very good condition.
	The Leadville ward was reported by
Counselor Gilchrist, who stated that they
had a very energetic band of sisters.
	President Margaret Clark reported the
Rudy Society, stating that they tried to help
the poor and sick as much as possible; had
loaned some of their grain, teachers were
all doing their duty.
	President Melissa Barrett stated that the
Willow Creek Ward had been faithfully
looking after their poor and sick and doing
the best they could.

[column 2]
	Rigby society was reported by Sister Cor-
don as being prosperous; teachers were
alive to their duty, owned their own lot
and granary.
	President Nelson reported the Howard
society as building a granary, sewing for
the poor and needy.
	Counselor Steele enjoyed her labors; en-
couraged all to do their duty, to attend
meetings, adding that by making a little
extra effort and exertion we could all do so.
Upheld Sister Bennett as an example, be-
ing a woman who had a large family, but
who nevertheless always attended to her
duties.
	Counselor Rockwood was pleased with
the reports given. Impressed upon the sis-
ters the necessity of holding their officers’
meetings; her labor was a source of joy to
her.
	Meeting closed by singing, “O, say what
is truth ?” Benediction by Brother Bybee.

	Afternoon session. After the usual open-
ing exercises, President Bennett spoke con-
cerning the keeping of proper records and
encouraged the secretaries in their labors,
advising them to be faithful and careful in
their records.
	The names of the general and local offic-
ers were then presented and unanimously
sustained.
	Sister Lucy Steers, aid to Stake Board,
reported the Blackfoot society as holding
their meetings as regular as possible all
were united.
	Menan Ward Relief Society was reported
by Sister Stevenson, who stated that their
society was free from debt, had good teach-
ers and a very good society.
	The yearly report of the society was
then read by Assistant Stake Secretary
Kate Bennett, and also the treasurer’s report
by Treasurer Alice Boomer.
	Sister Gilchrist then sang a solo, “O,
blest was the day.”
	Counselor E. Brunt was very sorry over
the fact that they were to lose Sister Ben-
nett as president of the Stake Relief Soci-
ety. She had known her now for many
years and had learned to love her and her
labors in the Stake. Eulogized the benefits
that she had brought to the society, and the
efforts that she had expended in the up-
building of it. Hoped that all would sus-
tain those who would be called to succeed
her. Exhorted the mothers to educate
themselves so that they could properly train
their children. Reminded all to listen to
the counsel given to them from time to
time.
	Sister Julia Dabell, aid to Stake Board,
bore testimony to the worth of the labors of
their president, and regretted to learn that
she would have to leave the society.
	President James E. Steele explained that
owing to the fact that Sister Bennett had re-
moved with her husband and family back
to Utah, it was their painful duty to release
her from her office here. Stated that it
was a source of regret to him to see Sister
Bennett leaving, as she had been an untir-
ing and faithful worker in the society.
Enlogized her zeal and constant attention,
and stated that she had been able to accom-
plish wonders; her duties to the society had
always been paramount with her, and be-
lieved that she left a society that was equal
to any in the whole of Zion, and he was
proud of its standing. Praised the unceas-
ing energy of the sisters, adding that they
accomplished what they set out to do.
	Sister Bennett said she felt full of sorrow,


[column 1]
not over the fact that she was to be
released from her position, but because of
having to part with the sisters, all of whom
she had learned to love, and not know-
ing when she should have the pleasure of
meeting them again. Said she had rejoiced
exceedingly in the work and was grateful
for having had the pleasure of laboring in
the society here in this Stake. Gave a brief
report of what the society had accomplished
during the past eight years, which spoke
splendidly for the efforts of the sisters. En-
couraged all to do their duty, to live near
to the Heavenly Father and earnestly asked
all to faithfully asssist her successors so
that they might be able to do the utmost
possible for the work of the Lord. Asked
for the faith and prayers of all in her behalf.
	A vote was then taken and carried that
the society would present from their Stake
fund $20.00 to the building fund of the
Ricks Academy. Sister Bennett then, in
behalf of the officers and members of the
Bingham Stake Relief Society, presented to
President Steele $20 00 to this fund.
	President Bybee stated that he had known
President Bennett for many years, nearly
eight, and had nothing but good to say of
her; that she had always been at her post.
Said it was a mission of this country to ad-
minister peace to the world, and that it was
the mission of the Latter-day Saints to
spread the truth. Said that Sister Bennett
in leaving had the good wishes of the entire
Stake. Hoped that some good sister
would be selected to take the place vacated
by Sister Bennett. Encouraged all to live
righteously, to assist the poor and the sick.
	The name of Sister Elvira Steele was
suggested for the office of Stake President
of the Bingham Stake Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Stanger regretted
the fact that they were losing such an ener-
getic worker as the present president had
been, but he hoped that her good acts
and deeds would always be remembered.
	Stake President Steele spoke concerning
the Academy, and asked all of their support.
Asked all to be liberal and broad-minded
and not forget that they were God’s chil-
dren and were dependent upon His mercy
for their existence.
	Sister Steele said she hoped that she
would be able to fill the office. 
	Sister Bennett thought a wise selection
had been made in calling Sister Steele to
the office that she had vacated. She was
sure the sisters would give Sister Steele their
support.
	Sister Bennett was then honorably re-
leased from the duties of Stake president of
the Bingham Relief Society and given the
hearty thanks of the Latter-day Saints of
this Stake for her earnest efforts and labors
in its behalf.
	Sister Steele was unanimously elected to
the position vacated by Sister Bennett, and
was set apart for that office, Brother Bybee
being mouth. After the close of the meet-
ing Sister Annie Rockwood was set apart

[column 2]
as first counselor to Sister Steele, and Sister
Elizabeth Brunt as second counselor, by
Brothers Steele and Stanger, respectively.
	Sister Cordon, of Rigby, felt impressed
to say a few words in behalf of the Acad-
emy. Said nothing was to be compared
with the education of a Latter-day
Saint, and that to her the true education of
her children was uppermost. Mentioned
that the Rigby Society had held an enter-
tainment, and had cleared $35.00 for the
fund.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction by Brother Don
Walker. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	JENSINE JOHANNESEN, Sec.

	NEBO STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Tabernacle, Sister Lylus C. Page presiding.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Loveless of Payson
1st ward. Singing.
	The roll was then called. Minutes of
morning session of last annual conference
were read.
	Sister Page was pleased to greet so many
this morning. Welcomed all to our con-
ference, gave a report of the labors of the
Stake officers. The statistical and financial
report was read.
	Sister L. D. Alder was very glad to
meet the brethren and sisters It had been
a great many years since she was there.
She was pleased to hear the reports and
said. “Sister Smith sent her love to you
all, although she could not be present. She
feels the heavy burden placed upon her and
needs the faith and prayers of the sisters to
build up and strengthen her in her labors.”
	A song was rendered by Miss Holt, of
Spanish Fork, “The Song My Mother
Sang.”
	Sister Wilcox said she was here as a mis-
sionary in the Relief Society, had been a
member for many years. Spoke of the
teachers, what a noble work they have to
perform. The sisters should have the
spirit of the Relief Society work at heart.
Spoke of the organization of the Church,
and of the Relief Society, it is the grandest
organization for women. Motherhood is
the noblest aim a woman can have. Heart-
ily wished that Sisters Smith and Wells
could have been here with us today, so that
we could have heard them speak. Sister
Smith is the only one living who belonged
to the first Relief Society. Felt the very
best when she was keeping the command-
ments of the Lord. This is a blessed work.
	Sister Page said we would have an offic-
ers’ meeting after this meeting; invited all
to stay to lunch.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Pickering.
	The officers’ meeting was held at one
o’clock. The sisters gave us all some very
good instructions.
	Afternoon session was called to order by

[column 3]
Sister Page. Singing, “How firm a found-
ation.” Prayer was offered by Sister Eliza-
beth Wall.
	Singing, “Jesus once of humble birth.”
Minutes of afternoon session of annual con-
ference were read.
	Sister Wilcox said that if the sisters
would pray for the presiding officers it
would greatly benefit them and help them
to bear the responsibilities placed upon
them. Spoke of prayer and the benefit of
it. Related an incident of a little girl
having her prayer answered. The wise
mother is the one who teaches her child to
love and respect things. Teach the chil-
dren to be kind to animals. It is a blessed
thing when girls and boys can be taught
pure things at home. Influences are not
always of the best nature. Children who
are taught to be truthful will be very apt to
grow up pure and truthful. Prayed that
the mothers in Israel would have power to
control their children.
	Sister Alder then thanked the sisters for
the kind treatment they had received and
wished them all good bye, as they had to
leave on the afternoon train. Hoped to see
them again.
	An essay on “Child Culture” was given
by Sister May Markham of Spanish Fork.
	A song was rendered by Emma Worsen-
croft, of Payson 1st ward.
	Brother Elsworth said he felt that we had
a good spirit, had enjoyed the meeting very
much. Wished every father and mother
in the Stake could have been at these meet-
ings and have heard the instructions. Our
children have been given too much liberty,
we should have something for them to do.
	Recitation by Sister Lucy Dixon, of
Payson 2nd ward.
	General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned until Sep-
tember 18, at Salem. Singing, “The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Stake Counselor Eliza Dixon.
	HATTIE WRIDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.  TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of

Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel. 2002.



Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-	
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also childrenwho are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name,subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier,
Nos.1-3- Main Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 32
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1903
No. 3


CONTENTS.
Mary A. Burnham Freeze.......Lillie T. Freeze	17
Mothers’ Work................................................	18
A Voice from Richfield.....Hannah M. Ogden	18
Peace Meetings.....Alice Smith Merrill Horne	19
Lecture Given in Cannon Ward...L. G. Davey	19
History of the Relief Society.........E. B. Wells	21
A Pleasant Surprise,................................Com.	21
R. S. Reports...................................................	22
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting......A Wardrop	24
EDITORIAL—The Day in Which We Live....	20
	Annual Meeting D. R...............................	20
	Editorial Notes.........................................	21
POETRY—The Relief Society.........E. R. S. S	17
	Love............................................Selected	19


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

It is an institution formed to bless
The poor, the widow and the fatherless;
To clothe the naked and the hungry feed,
And in the holy paths of virtue lead.

To seek where anguish, grief and sorrow are,
And light the torch ot hope eternal there;
To prove the strength of consolation’s art
By breathing comfort to the mourning heart.

To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where
Sad mis’ry dwells, and wake up pleasure there,
With open heart to extend the friendly hand;
To hail the stranger from a distant land.

To stamp a with’ring impress on each move
That virtue’s noble self would disapprove;
To put the tattler’s coinage scandal down.
And make corruption feel its scathing frown.

To give instruction where instruction’s voice
Will guide the feet and make the soul rejoice,
To turn the wayward from their recklessness,
And aid them in the path of happiness.

It is an order fitted and designed
To cultivate and elevate the mind;
To seek the needy in their lone abode
Supply their wants and lead them up to God.
							E. R. S .S.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT, July 1, 1872.


[column 1]
	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	Among the Latter-day Saints are many
remarkable women—not famous for genius
nor distinguished for that exquisite culture
and polish that is the result of generations
of classical education and the discipline in
graceful ease that wealth and leisure afford,
but many are remarkable for their inheri-
tance of noble characteristics and virtues
bequeathed to them from long lines of
honorable and distinguished ancestors and
they have demonstrated the possession of
heroic courage and firmness, irrepressible
energy, trusting faith and religious fervor,
while blending with, softening and beauti-
fying all, is native refinement, purity and
simplicity that makes womanhood lovely.
	Among this type Mary A. Freeze holds
an honored place, her lineage is traced back
to the year 1200, and the Burnham family
have a record of the same. They descended
from the Normans and the family was at
one time very renowned and wealthy.
Among them are Doctors of Law, Doctors
of Divinity and literary people one of whom
writes of  “the service of gold, their equip-
ages and household appointments and of
the grandeur brought with them from their

[column 2]
ancient and noble halls of England.” They
have traced their genealogy to the nobility
of England and prove an inheritance of
royal blood. Three brothers came to
America at an early date, one settling in
Vermont and two in Massachusetts. Their
descendants took part in the Revolutionary
War, also the war of 1812, and several of
them were officers in the late Civil War in
America. Major John Burnham was a
member of the Continental Army formed on
the banks of the Hudson River. George
Washington was the first president and
Major Burnham had his certificate of
membership with Washington’s autograph
suspended upon the wall of his home in
Derry, N. H.
	Coming down to more recent date, we
find that James Lewis Burnham, of Ver-
mont, was minister of a church called Chris-
tians, but after hearing the principles of the
Gospel explained by an Elder of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he was
convinced that he had no authority to
preach until he was babtized by immersion,
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on
of hands and was ordained to the priest-
hood as were the Apostles in ancient days.
He married Mary A. Huntly, of his own
state, and after they had accepted the reli-
gion both were convinced was right, moved
to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1843. Three sons were
born, and Mr. Burnham contracted a
cold while preaching in the open air, and
in 1845, four days previous to the birth of
their daughter Mary, (the subject of this
sketch) he died of hemorrhage of the lungs.
What a trying period for the young widow,
left alone in a destitute condition with no
relatives near to render assistance! But
the Saints with whom she had cast her lot
for the Gospel’s sake were true friends in
the hour of need and she preferred to remain
with them in the depths of poverty, to re-
turning to her relatives in the East who
proffered her every assistance if she would
return to them.
	In February, 1846, the famous exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo began, and this
frail widow with four little children took
up her toilsome march across the plains.
Truly,

	“Man for holy conscience sake,
	Many sacrifices makes.”

	After six years of delays, dissappoint-
ments and untold hardship and suffering,
she reached Salt Lake City, already a bright
oasis in the great American desert. She
soon moved to Richmond, Cache County,
where Mary, despite all her disadvantages,
had grown to a stately and charming bru-
nette, with a wealth of undeveloped char-
acter. A veritable rough diamond, which
James P. Freeze, a new convert to the
Church from Philadelphia, was not slow to
recognize, and at the age of seventeen Mary
became his wife.
	In 1863 they removed to Salt Lake City.
Possessing native intelligence, a generous
soul and well defined characteristics of a
religious and social order Mrs. Freeze
was soon chosen as a leader among her sex.
Her own sad experience with poverty and

[column 3]
her keen sympathy with the suffering and
unfortunate, made her a valuable member
of the Relief Society in whose interests she
has ever faithfully labored.
	For over twenty-five years Mrs. Freeze
has been a presiding officer in the Mutual
Improvement Association of Zion and for
nearly twenty years has presided over the
branches of that association in Salt Lake
Stake (County) with a membership of three
thousand young women. Though frail in
body her labors have been arduous and un-
ceasing, with undaunted energy and perse-
verance she has most cheerfully battled
against obstacles and willingly sacrificing
the personal ease and comfort which be-
came hers at marriage, in the interest of
those whose spiritual, mental and moral
development was entrusted to her care. She
has traveled extensively in the state in the
interest of the Relief Society in connection
with her Mutual Improvement work and
the constant presence of the dear, faithful
mother, over eighty years of age, in her
home, has made all this zealous public
labor possible. From both lines of parent-
age, Mrs. Freeze inherits strong religious
and intellectual tendencies, a most amiable
disposition is one of nature’s best gifts to
her, she has a cheerful magnetic presence
her own great faith inspires others, her un-
bounded hope encourages and her sweet
charity draws all hearts toward her. As a
public speaker sound in doctrine, earnest
and enthusiastic in expression. While her
persuasive attitude wins souls to the cause
so dear to her own heart. As an evidence
of the loving respect in which she is held by
her colaborers a surprise testimonial was ten-
dered her in June, 1894, by the officers of
all the associations over which she presides.
In decribing this unprecedented event, the
Young Woman's Journal says:

	Long before the hour of commencing the hall
was ablaze with electric light, while the floral dec-
orations and bunting were of the most elaborate
description. Amid sweet strains of music Mrs.
Freeze entered the crowded hall, and when seated
on the platform she was treated to a veritable
shower of flowers and a hearty round of applause
from the audience, who had risen to their feet en
masse. Many of the most prominent men and
women in the Church had met to do her honor and
Joseph F. Smith, a nephew of the great Latter-
day Prophet, and one of the First Presidency of
the Church, uttered the following very liberal senti-
ment: “It is really necessary that we should
have public-spirited, active women to labor in the
cause of women, as well as to have public-spirited
active men to labor in the general interests of the
people at large   I feel and have felt for a long
time to honor and respect Sister Freeze, as also
the labors of Sister E. S. Taylor and her associates
in the Mutual Improvement work throughout the
territory of Utah. Their labors have resulted in a
great deal of good, and there is yet a great deal to
be accomplished by them. Therefore it is very
pleasing to me to see this demonstration of affec-
tion on the part of the sisters, to Sister Freeze 
while she is yet with them.
	I believe in that principle, in that sentiment of
paying respect and showing honor to those to
whom honor and respect is due while they yet live,
and therefore I heartily respond in my feelings
and approve of the very pleasing and overwhelm-
ing demonstration manifested tonight. Surely she
has reason to feel grateful and yet humble before
the Lord for this mark of respect—profound re-
spect. I can only say to Sister Freeze that there 
is no greater or more noble work to which old or


young women upon the earth can devote them-
selves than that work which has engaged, for so
many years, her care and attention.

	The subject of this sketch is the mother
of nine children, six of whom are living
firm in the faith of the Gospel, which their
mother has so carefully instilled into their
hearts. And her intense love of music and
gift of sweet voice are inherent in her chil-
dren.
	That she possesses literary ability is told in
many sweet poems of faith and love which,
amid all her busy cares have occasionally
slipped into the publication of some of our
best literature, but as an entertaining cor-
respondent among family and friends her
talents shine with the brightest lustre.
	Such lives of unselfish devotion, such un-
tiring energy, such trusting and unbounded
faith in God, such examples of purity and
noble thinking and still nobler living are
a mighty force in the regeneration of the
world making the approach of the Millen-
nium possible.

LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHER'S WORK.

BANNOCK STAKE.

Lecture I.—How Mothers Should Care for
	Themselves During Maternity, and how to
	Prepare Themselves for Confinement:

		(a) Proper clothing. Sanitary condi-
	tions. Evils of the corset.
		(b) Diet, etc.
		(c) Condition of the mind Proper
	books to read

Lecture II.—Care of Infants From Birth
	Until After Teething:

		(a) Proper clothing; benefits of
	woolen clothing.
		(b) Proper feeding and evil effects
	of patent medicines and drugs.
		(c) Care of children during teething.

Lecture III.—Care of Young Girls While
	Coming into Womanhood:

		(a) Benefits of pure air and exercise.
		(b) Evils of fashionable dressing.
		(c) Evils of keeping late hours and
	being deprived of proper amount of
	sleep.

Lecture IV.— When Shall Our Daughters
	Marry:

		(a) Proper age.
		(b) A wife’s duty.
		(c) Evils of race suicide.
		(d) Necessity of prayer.

Lecture V. —Necessity of Unity in the
	Family:

		(a) Confidence between parents.
		(b) Gaining the confidence of the
	children.
		(c) Leading exemplary lives in the
	home.
		(d) Necessity of teaching the chil-
	dren the Word of Wisdom.

Lecture IV.—Self-Culture for Mothers:

		(a) Choice of good literature.
		(b) Proper language and patience.
		(c) How to entertain our children at
	home. 
		(d) Music in the home.

	Committee on program: Sisters Rosa B.

[Column 2]
Knowles, Amy Tune, L. S. P.            ah
Gibbs.

MARY ROBERTSON, Cor. Sec.


SEVIER STAKE.

Lecture I.—Object of Existence:

		(a) To benefit humanity and to gain
	eternal life.
		(b) Love an attribute of God, im-
	planted in the human race for a holy
	purpose.
		(c) Marriage a divine covenant for
	the propogation of the race. "Be fruit-
	ful, multiply and replenish the earth."

Lecture II.—Parenthood:
(a) Prenatal influences. Our duty
	to God to produce the best of our kind.
	The right of the child to be well born.
		(b) Unity, love, chastity and loyalty
	should be the binding links to mortal 
	parenthood.
		(c) Seek knowledge from all good
	sources, truth, wisdom and the Holy
	Spirit as a gift from God. "Seek first
	the kingdom of heaven and its right-
	eousness and all else shall be added
	thereunto." False ideas of the mar-
	riage vow and its consequences.

Lecture III.—Motherhood:
(a) Motherhood a sacred duty of a
	wife, her duty to prepare herself with
	knowledge best suited to the develop-
	ment of the child and comfort of the
	home. Be able to direct and control her
	own powers and be an example in all
	virtues and conduct. Should have
	some medical knowledge. Ever seek
	to be cheerful in the discharge of her
	duties.

Lecture IV.—Infancy:
(a) The forming of proper habits
	should begin at the cradle.
		(b) Best methods of bathing.
		(c) Best food and feeding, sleep,
	clothing, cleanliness, and encourage
	simplicity in dress.
		(d) Remedies for infants' ailments.

Lecture V.—Childhood:
(a) Physical development, to walk,
	sit, stand and cultivate a pleasant
	voice; respect for house of worship; re
	spectful conduct towards all public
	teachers, whether religious or not; teach
	to pray; teach the Gospel by example;
	to speak no evil or speak lightly of
	those who teach, or God's anointed.

Lecture VI.—Childhood (continued):

		Moral development: Restrain all evil
	tendencies; bad conduct; impure
	speech; disrespect to aged parents or
	associates; respect others' rights and be
	subject to all lawful or social demands.

Lecture VII.—Childhood continued):
Chastity: In speech, in act exert a
	strong home influence; sacredness of 
	the body, keep it pure for the Spirit of
	God to dwell in; think no evil; moth-
	ers be extremely watchful and seek at
	all times to have the confidence of the
	child. Teach the child the sacred laws
	of life before he gains evil knowledge
	from evil minds.

[Column 3]
Lecture VIII.--Childhood (continued):

		Social home life: Respect to par-
	ents and other members of the family;
	to hired help; company; be orderly;
	wait on self, not infringe on rights of
	others; polite at table; kindness and
	unselfishness; obey quickly; converse
	on intellectual subjects, events, etc;
	never indulge in making sport of
	others' weaknesses or misfortunes.

Lecture IX.—Childhood (continued):

		Social public life: Politeness on the
	street and at all public places; a social
	duty not to be boisterous or rude; ap-
	ply the golden rule; at gatherings
	of any kind should be quiet, attentive
	and respectful during all exercises; at
	dances or socials should be lively but
	not boisterous. genteel and courteous
	in all acts; "To be happy make others
	happy;" speak no evil of associates;
	be confidential and frank but not a
	tattler; children's parties or socials
	should not be held late at night. (Ref.
	Doc. and Cov.)

Lecture X.—Childhood (continued) :
Social public life (continued): Seek 
	good companions; be honest as friends;
	not being envious or deceitful; let chil-
	dren have associates; social duty to be
	clean of speech, person and clothing;
	habits of good dressing, not gaudy or
	extravagant, but clean and neat; dress
	for the occasion, for work or play;
	punctuality in performing every pub-
	lic duty; all young people should be
	chaperoned at evening gatherings;

Lecture XI.— Childoood (continued):

		Government: Mutual occupation of
	parents; control self; govern by love;
	administering of punishment, when 
	and how; children's rights in the home
	to recreation, when studying or per-
	forming a duty; parental authority
	should not be greater than parental
	love.       H. M. JONES, Ch. Com.


A VOICE FROM RICHFIELD.
Dear Editor:
It is not often anything is heard through
your interesting columns of our Relief
Society in Richfield, therefore we thought
we would tell something of our doings on the
61st anniversary of the organization of the
Relief Sociely.
On the 17th of March, 1903, the members
of our association met at their hall at two
o’clock, where a very interesting program,
commemorative of the day, was carried out,
after which delicious refreshments were
served by the committee in charge. A
dancing party at the Star Pavilion, which
was a social as well as a financial success,
closed the day’s program.
Our Relief Society is ably managed by
our president, Sister Agnes B. Thurber and
her aids, they are zealous workers and en-
joy the confidence of the sisters in general.
Ever desiring the success of the Relief
Society throughout the world and the suc-
cess of the Exponent in particular.
Very Truly,
Hannah M. Ogden, Sec.


Miss Ida M. Tritt has been elected
treasurer of the New York and Queens
County Street Railway.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE.

Love stooped to one that captive lay,
	Fettered and prone, and broke the bars;
And led him to the dawn of day,
	The morning stars.

Love found upon the battle edge
A coward fleeing from the strife;
And sent him forth, his heart in pledge,
	Valiant, through life.

Love touched dumb lips that could not pray,
	And lo, they uttered prayer and song;
Love hath so subtle sweet a way,
	Love is so strong.

That, come he with an angel face,
	Or come he with a flaming sword,
Where’er he makes his dwelling place;
	All heaven is poured.

SELECTED.


[Column 1]
PEACE MEETINGS.
 [Copy of the report sent to the chairman of the
National Peace Committee for the U. S., Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.]

Report of Peace Demonstrations held
under the auspices of the N. W. R. S. and
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the year 1903, May
18:
Number of meetings. 138.
Number of speakers and persons taking part on
programs, 827.
Number present, 15, 374.
Resolutions adopted.
Tone of meeting, enthusiastic for peace and
arbitration.
 Response of ministry earnest and helpful.
Respectfully submitted by,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE,
Chairman Peace Committee for N. W. R. S.
CHRISTINE SMOOT TAYLOR,
Chairman Peace Committee for Y. L M. N. I. A.
Salt Lake City, August, 1903.

Mrs. Horne’s letter to Mrs. Sewall:
I have the honor to report the Peace Demon-
strations for the year 1903, held, (in accordance
is with your instruction as chairman ot the National
Peace Committee) by the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society, in cooperation with the National
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association.
We have delayed sending this report, as our
organizations are so widely scattered and the more
societies last year were not heard from until after
the reports were made to you. We are pleased to
note an increase over last year’s peace meetings
in number and attendance and possibly in enthu-
siasm. The demonstration extended throughout
Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Wyom-
ing, New Mexico, Montana, and Oregon in the
United States, while there were some in Canada,
and a few in Old Mexico.
Mrs. Christine Smoot Taylor and myself ap-
pointed as a state committee, or rather as an ex-
ecutive committee for 1903, the presidents of
Stakes of the organizations which we represent.
To them is very largely due the success of this
year’s work. The societies over which these sis- ters preside are, in most cases, widely scattered
and to meet each, even once a year, necessitates
from the Stake president hundreds of miles of
travel by team, often over bad roads; but unflinch-
ing courage and determination to perform the
duties of the office characterize these noble women.
No wonder, then, that the presidents of the
societies responded so willingly to the call of their
superior officers and we are pleased that even in
isolated hamlets peace meetings have been held
and regularly reported to us.
An interesting fact in connection with these
sparsely settled districts is that every person pres-
ent takes part in the program. One report says:
‘The families are widely scattered but all turned
out to the Peace Meeting. Number of speakers in
favor of peace, ten; number in attendance, eigh-
teen.”
I wish you had the time to look over some of our
letters which I send under another cover, that you
might glean an idea of the enthusiasm of the local
committees, as well as the peace assemblages.
Perhaps a third in attendance were men and
they took part on the programs in about that pro-
portion.
A very prominent feature ef our programs is
good music. We have urged this with the thought
that nothing seems to bring our audiences so com-
pletely in harmony as does fine music. Many re-

[Column 2]
ports show the presence of brass bands, glee clubs,
choruses, quartettes and the best vocalists our
mountains afford (which we are thankful are not
few) while often whole audiences have joined in
singing a hymn—America seeming to have been
the favorite.
On the 18th of May the peace colors were quite
in evidence, and our own sego lily, symbol of
peace and purity, was gathered from the moun-
tains and formed part of the decorations.
The ministry, and officers and teachers of Sab-
bath Schools have responded generously to the
call made upon them to introduce into their dis-
courses and lessons the spiritual side of the peace
and arbitration question.
Our orators and statesmen, soldiers and lawyers
have responded generously to invitations to ad-
dress audiences. The press has opened it’s columns
to us and the people have shown an interest, in the
movement by attending the peace meetings. Some
choice bits of poetry have been written for the oc-
casion and we cannot but feel that the whole
movement has been to us educative and inspiring
all along the line, and that it is particularly in
unison with the mission of our Relief Society
work; for our duty is to nurse and heal the sick
administer a balm to the broken-hearted and in-
jured; to bless and comfort and cheer, and to re-
lieve distress; to lay out the dead and to do all
good works that are in our power to perform, one
especial call being to educate mothers in proper
knowledge of the requirements for growth and
development of their offspring, physically, ment-
ally and spiritually, therefore our hope is in har-
mony and our prayer for peace as it has ever been.
The aged but active president of our National
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, (who is the
only living charter member of this, the oldest or-
ganization of women) wrote in her journal while
crossing the plains with ox-teams, the following:
‘‘Aug. 21, 1849. About four o’clock this morn-
ing William Babbit arrived in camp with the mail
from the valley (Salt Lake City). We were highly
pleased to get good news  *    *    *   In the after-
noon he (William Babbit) addressed us on the sub-
ject of “Organizing a State in the Mountains,
Where the Saints May Live in Peace Under the
Laws and Constitution of the United States.”
This note may be interesting to you, as it has
never before been published or given in public.
Please find enclosed report for 1903.
Very sincerely yours,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE.
Chairman Peace Commitee for N. W.  R.


[Column 1]
LECTURE GIVEN IN CANNON WARD.

Lecture III.—The Latter-day Saint Mother
and Child. A Life in Harmony with the
Gospel is the Perfect Example.

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benev-
olent, virtuous and in doing good to all men.

Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long upon the land that the Lord thy God
giveth thee.

In our two last previous lectures we have
had laid before us the beginning of mother-
hood and thoughts upon the early care and
training of the child, now in our third lec-
ture we approach a time when the greatest
possible care must be observed by the par-
ent, for other associations and surround-
ings besides the home must be considered,
and we as parents, to a great extent, are
responsible for the actions of our children.
Parents have a wonderful work to perform,
especially Latter-day Saint parents in try-
ing to rear their children in the proper way,
to teach them the fear of the Lord and the
love of the Gospel, and remembering al-
ways that “Example is better than pre-
cept.” The children of those parents who
try to live a life in harmony with the Gos-
pel are generally prayerful, humble and
obedient. Our beloved poetess, Eliza R.
Snow, said, “It is no trifling thing to be a
Saint in very deed, to stand upright, nor
bow, nor bend beneath the heavy pressure
of oppressiveness.” If we desire our chil-
dren to become true Latter-day Saints we
must first set them the example, and guard

[Column 2]
against doing anything ourselves which we
would not have them do. In keeping the
Word of Wisdom, revering the Sabbath,
attending our prayers and meetings, paying
our tithes and fast offerings and generally
obeying the laws of the Gospel, we set an
example worthy for our children to follow;
and in the neglect of these laws ourselves
we give them the excuse that they have
seen their parents negligent, and never fully
realized the necessity of being so strict.
It is in the little every-day occurrences in
the home where the parent and the child
mingle confidentially and socially that there
is the greatest need of care both in our
actions and our words. If we wish our
children to be truthful and honest we
should be truthful ahd honest ourselves,
especially with them and never let them
find us lacking in our promises. Children
do not easily forget when a parent fails to
keep a promise and sometimes the faith in
the mother or father which before was per-
fect may be shatt[--]ed by a broken promise.
The article of faith given us by the
Prophet Joseph says: “We believe in being
honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous
and in doing good to all men,” and just so
sure as we practice in our own lives those
attributes can we hope with confidence to
see our children follow in our footsteps
and lead a goodly life; but there are stumb-
ling blocks and falterings in life’s pathway
and we cannot hope to attain the goal of
perfection without much strife and labor,
but we can study ourselves the true princi-
ples of the Gospel that we can teach them
intelligently to our children. The promise
given by our Father in the fifth command-
ment, “Honor thy father and thy mother
that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God giveth thee,” is a
promise of beauty, for who does not cherish
life and enjoy the beauties and delights of
the world, and if we would have our chil-
dren obedient to us we must be obedient
not only to our earthly parents, but to our
Father in heaven.
It is indeed a pleasure to see an obedi-
ent child and no doubt all mothers
strive to teach obedience, but some are
more successful than others, probably be-
cause nature has given them more patience,
but we can all strive to inspire our children
with a love for obedience, virtue, honesty
and truth, by prayer and faith, and by giv-
ing them not only the best example we
know how, but an unfaltering and perfect
love to brighten and to cheer, to help and
to guide them on life’s way, remembering,

“Life is only bright when it proceedeth
Towards a truer, deeper life above,
Human life is sweetest when it leadeth
To a more divine and perfect love."

LIZZIE G. DAVEY.


Miss Caroline L. Greisham, a clerk in
the Civil Service Bureau, has been detailed,
as a result of recent disclosures of violation
of the Civil Service regulations, to make a
tour of inspection among the large post-
offices of the country and to act as a sort of
“postmaster’s adviser.” Her principal
duty will be to interpret the Civil Service
regulations to the officials and point out
any oversights or neglect to enforce them.
Miss Greisham has before her a mission of
considerable delicacy, but she is a woman
of tact who will try to preserve amenity
and avoid needless conflict.


20
WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1903.


[Column 1]
THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.
	Most people will agree with the writer
this is a momentous age, and that there is
is much to be accomplished in so short a
time, and so many events transpiring that
bring with them work and responsibility,
that one is almost dazed by the accumula-
tion of what must be accomplished in a
given time.
	No wonder the phrase “a strenuous life”
has become proverbial. But after all is it
worth while ? One cannot help thinking it
is positively wrong, yet we rush on just the
same; it is the tendency of the age, and we
drift into these ways of rushing and hurry-
ing. We partake of the spirit of our sur-
roundings perhaps; there are so many cur-
rents of electricity brought into exercise to
promote and propel this and that enterprise
and undertaking that men and women,
it may be unawares, are trying to keep pace
with the elements around them. More
work can be done by machinery run by
electricity, and yet there seems to be no
leisure for the workers, after all; however
there is more work to be done, the luxur-
ous ways of living and of dressing create
work, and then there are more people, and
there are various reasons why there is more
work than formerly.
	We look back to the more primitive way
of living and wonder how we did so much
work, and yet taking hold of the matter
seriously we do more work now as a whole
than we did then, even if we do talk about
the spinning, weaving and dyeing, the sew-
ing and darning that have all gone out of
fashion now, save perhaps the darning,
when we buy mostly ready-made clothing,
and what sewing is done machinery helps us
to do quickly.
	Can any body tell us what use is made of
our time? We ourselves are busy, all our
friends are busy, even the doctors and law-
yers are hurried, and we are all, more or
less, in the habit of saying, we have no time
to visit. Will some wise acre answer these 
questions? We even let those we love drift
away from us, because we do not have time
to sympathize with them in their affairs, and
know how they feel and ho w it fares with
them in this workaday world.
	Is there a way to economize time and
make our lives more desirable, both to our-
selves and others ?
	By the bye, it is not only women who
have this feeling that they are not doing all
they ought, but men complain that they
have scarcely time to become familiar with

[Column 2]
their own families and none for their neigh-
bors.
	As Latter-day Saints we really do more
than almost any other people, at any rate
we are apt to think so, and in some re-
spects we certainly do. We give time to
the public in a general way certainly, and
some read and study a great deal; formerly
women read comparatively little, and as for
study it was only the simplest rudiments,
nowadays homes are filled with reading
matter and every family has newspapers
and so far so good, and the people as a
whole are more intelligent than heretofore.
Women especially, to say nothing of men,
who certainly have more bachelor degrees
(and there are also more bachelors) and
also several other kinds of degrees, as well
as numerous titles. Women have taken up
various kinds of work not known in the
past history of the world, and then Latter-
day Saint women have Temple work extra
from all other women. This is a beautiful
work and one that is uplifting in its nature
and tendency and very satisfying. It could
scarcely be otherwise. It is a delightful
thought that our sisters in the Church can
go to the Temple dedicated to the Lord and
officiate there for the living and the dead
and find such joy and consolation as no one
can know who has not been in these holy
places.
	It is to be ardently desired that the spirit
of unrest or hurry, or whatever it is that is
prevalent now, may not plunge people into
a very serious state of ill manners, or lack
of good fellowship,which would certainly be
lamentable, but that in course of time the
folly of being so regardless of common civil-
ity may cause the majority, at least, to re-
turn to the old method of greeting one’s
friends and neighbors, and that the tele-
phone fashion of saying “Hallo” will go
out of fashion with cultured people and
that young girls and young men will be
more “proper” and ceremonious to each
other than to accost each other as they do
nowadays with a loud “hallo” when they
happen to meet on the street, or even in
what they term “polite society.”
	A little more consideration for another’s
feelings, and perchance even a little more
regard for etiquette (that some people pre-
tend to despise) might give more genuine
pleasure than so much familiarity in man-
ner and freedom in speech.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
	The annual meeting of the Utah State
Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held on Wednesday, June 10, 1903, at 3 p.
m., in the society headquarters, Templeton
Building, in this city.  The room was
draped in the society colors—blue and
buff—and their handsome new flag dis-
played conspicuously for the occasion.
Yellow roses, also red and white, and car-
nations, etc. in abundance gave a festive
appearance to the place of meeting. Regent,
Mrs. Julia M. Farnsworth in the chair.
	After prayer, reports were given by the
several retiring officers and then followed
the election of officers for the ensuing year:
Regent, Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney Sears;
first vice-regent, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie;
second vice-regent, Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter;
secretary, Miss Catharine Wells; assistant
secretary, Miss Mabelle Snow; correspond-
ing secretary, Miss Florence Scholes;
treasurer, Mrs. Carlie Y. Cannon; registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall; historian, Mrs. E.


B. Wells; chaplain, Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth.
	At a special meeting held July 3, for the
transaction of important business on account
of the demise of the treasurer, Mrs. Eliza-
beth R. Wright was appointed to fill the
vacancy caused by the sudden death of Mrs.
Caroline Y. Cannon, and the society ex-
pressed their great sorrow at her loss in fit-
ting terms and decided to send a floral em-
blem and to attend the funeral services in a
body.
	The first regular meeting of the society 
after the summer vacation will be held on
Wednesday, September 16, at the residence
of the regent, Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney
Sears, at Thorndike, East Waterloo, at 3 p.
m., the usual hour, and it is desired that
there be a full attendance of officers and
members.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The pen sketch of Sister Mary A. Freeze
given in this number of the woman’s paper
was written about seven years ago; and
since that time Sister Freeze has done much
public service. She has been released
from presiding over the Young Ladies’
Associations in Salt Lake Stake and is a
member of the General Board of the Y. L.
M. I. A., and travels extensively in the
several stakes of Zion. She is a pleasing
and interesting speaker and is a great
favorite, not only as a speaker, but as a
friend. Her mother is still living at the
ripe age of eighty-eight years.
	The stakes of Zion which have had
official visits from the General Board of the
Relief Society since April, are as follows:
Granite, President Bathsheba W. Smith and
Counselor Annie T. Hyde. San Luis, Sisters
Susan Grant and E. J. Stevenson. Uintah,
Sister Emma S. Woodruff. Emery, Couns-
elor Annie T. Hyde and Sister Mary T.
Smith. Box Elder, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Carrie S. Thomas. Malad, Sis-
ters Clarissa S. Williams and Hattie B.
Harker. Panguitch, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and Sister Lydia D. Alder. Salt Lake,
President B. W. Smith and Counselor
A. T. Hyde. Oneida, Sisters E, J. Steven-
son and M. A. Caine. Cassia, Sisters M.
A. Caine and L. L. G. Richards. Pocatello,
Sisters Susan Grant and M. A. Caine. Utah,
President B. W. Smith, Counselor Ida
Smoot Dusenberry and Sister E. B. Wells.
Nebo, Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and
Lydia D. Alder. Sevier, Sisters Phebe Y.
Beatie and Alice M. Horne. South Sanpete,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sis-
ter Rebecca E. Little. North Sanpete, the
same sisters. Alpine, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and Sister Carrie S. Thomas. Juab,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sis-
ter M. A. Caine. Jordan, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp and L. D. Alder. Bear Lake, Sisters
E. J. Stevenson, L. D. Alder. Star Valley,
same sisters. Bannock, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Sister Emma S. Woodruff. Fre-
mont, the same sisters. Woodruff, Sisters
E. B. Wells and H. B. Harker. Benson,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister
Carrie S. Thomas. Davis, President B. W.
Smith and Counselor Annie T. Hyde. San
Juan, Sister E. B. Wells. Cache, Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards and Sister S. J. Can-
non. Hyrum, the same sisters. Alberta,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister
Rebecca E. Little. Wayne, Sister Margaret
A. Caine. Bingham, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp


and Sister Lydia D. Alder. Wasatch,
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Hattie B.
Harker. Summit, the same sisters. Mill-
ard, Sisters E. B. Wells and L. D. Alder.
Union, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Sis-
ter Emma S. Woodruff. Teton and Big
Horn, the same sisters; Snowflake, Sisters
Clarissa S. Williams and Priscilla Smith.
St. Johns, the same sisters. St. George
and Kanab, Annie W. Cannon. Stakes not
yet visited or the appointments made are:
Beaver, Parowan, Tooele, Weber, Morgan,
St. Joseph, Maricopa, Juarez, and Josepa
Colony.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
NAUVOO, ILL, Thursday, March 24, 1842.

	[A paragraph ftom the history of Joseph
Smith.]
	“I attended by request the Relief Society
whose object is the relief of the poor, the
destitute, the widow and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Mrs. Emma Smith has taken the presiden-
tial chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland are her
counselors; Mrs Elvira Cole is treasurer.
and our well-known and talented poetess.
Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was
a very numerous attendance at the organ-
ization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable
ladies; and we are well assured from a
knowledge of those pure principles of bene-
volence that flow spontaneously from their
humane and philanthropic bosoms, that
with the resources they will have at com-
mand, they will fly to the relief of the
stranger, they will pour in oil and wine to
the wounded heart of the distressed; they
will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow’s heart to rejoice. Our
ladies have always been signalized for their
acts of benevolence and kindness; but the
cruel usage they have received from the
barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto pre-
vented their extending the hand of charity
in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst
of their persecutions, when the bread has
been torn from their helpless offspring by
their cruel oppressors, they have always
been ready to open their doors to the weary
traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with
the hungry, and from their robbed and im-
poverished wardrobe, to divide with the
more needy and destitute; and now that
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess
facilities that they have not heretofore en-
joyed, we will feel convinced that with
their concentrated efforts, the condition of
the suffering poor, of the stranger and the
fatherless will be ameliorated. We had
the privilege of being present at their or-
ganization and were much pleased with
their “modus operandi,” and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly par-
liamentary in their proceedings.”

	Resuming the history of this society, its
first permanent organizations here in the 
valley, we can only mention a few whose
record has been kept and who have for-
warded reports to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during the first year of its establishment as

[Column 2]
a repository for doings of women. The first
mention made is of a small society in Ogden,
Amelia M. Frodsham secretary. In the
same paper, June 1, 1872, there was a brief
report from the South Ward of Provo of a
a meeting at which President A. O. Smoot
and Bishop Follett were both present and
made remarks; Sister R. A. Holden, Presi-
dent and Lucy W. Kimball, secretary. In
No. 3 of the paper there is a report from
the Sixteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, at
which Elder Joseph F. Smith made an ex-
cellent speech, also Sister Zina D [---]ung
and others. The secretary, Siste Presendia
L. Kimball stated that during the four
years since the society had been organized
cash receipts, merchandise and produce had
amounted to $729.65, of which $201.86 had
been disbuised for charity, leaving $527.79
in the treasury; of this one item was $50
which was donated to assist the emigrants.
We know without reference to books that
the Fourteenth Ward in Salt Lake City
was one of the first permanent organizations
and that Sister M. Isabella Horne was
president and Sister Elmina S. Taylor was
secretary. In the Fifteenth Ward Sister
Sarah M. Kimball was president and Sister
Susan M Moore, secretary. In the First
Ward of this city, Sister Miriam G. Chase
was president, and in the Second Ward,
Sister Nicolena Olson, president. In the
Thirteenth Ward Sister Rachel R. Grant
president and Elizabeth H. Goddard secre-
tary. Seventeenth Ward, Sister Marinda
N. Hyde president and Lydia D. Alder
secretary.
	We are aware that the twenty wards in
Salt Lake City were permanently organized
and in working order during the years 1867
and 1868, also in several parts of Salt Lake
county, in Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Cache,
Bear Lake, Summit, Wasatch, Utah, Juab,
Sanpete, Sevier, Millard and other counties;
perhaps every county in Utah and some
outside during these early years. However
it must be understood that there still existed
what with all propriety might be termed
a central board of the original society as or-
ganized in Nauvoo; all the officers were
here and could be referred to except the
president, Sister Emma Smith. Eliza R.
Snow held the records and the original
book which is now in the possession of the
General President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.
	It would be impossible were we in pos-
session of the facts, to give a sketch of each
society in detail, but we would say now in
passing that the receipts and disbursements
given here of the Sixteenth Ward are in all
probability about the same as of the society
in other wards. Meetings were held usu-
ally semi-monthly, one of these each month
being a working meeting, and in those days
the sisters often carded wool aud spun yarn
and knit socks, especially was this the case
in country districts,considerable means was
raised in this way, home made socks sold
well to mountaineers, cattlemen, sheepmen,
etc. Quilts and rag carpets were always
on hand and could generally be disposed of
to good advantage, those were among the
staple articles made by the sisters, but a
great variety of other things were done to
raise money for charitable purposes.
	In the centennial year, 1876, when the
great celebration was held in Philadelphia,
the Relief Society as a whole undertook
to make a showing of its work and products.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was appointed for Utah
to make an exhibit of woman’s work and

[Column 3]
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells secretary, with a
full committee of ladies. The women of
the Territory in all the several counties
worked with a will to raise means and to
prepare such exhibits as would be creditable
and acceptable to the general committee at
headquarters.
	Failing to obtain space in the Centennial
Exhibit in Philadelphia for all the articles
prepared by the women of Utah, a
Woman’s Fair was opened in the old Con-
stitution Building in Salt Lake City, of
which Sister Eliza R. Snow was president
and Louisa A. Ashby Secretary.
	This gave an opportunity to the women
of Utah to display the articles made for the
Centennial, and especially the home-made
silk, which was quite a novelty.
	Hundreds of people going and returning
from the Centennial in Philadelphia visited
Salt Lake City and the Woman’s Fair, and
many articles were disposed of advan-
tageously.
	From this fair grew the Woman’s Co-op
Store, of which Miss E. R. Snow was
manager several years. The fair and the
store were outgrowths of the Relief Society,
as was also the Deseret Silk Association.
The Silk Association was organized June
15, 1875, Sister Zina D. H. Young presi-
dent. Sister Zina had been an earnest
worker for sericulture from its first incep-
tion in Utah. One who knows cannot help
saying that she did more for the silk indus-
try the first few years than any other single
person. The Relief Society throughout
this mountain region in its various branches
took shares in the silk industry to establish
it and it was an adjunct to the society, prop-
erly speaking; the sisters encouraged it in
every possible way; they also maintained
in a small way several other industries of a
practical character; straw-braiding was one
of the employments which was fostered
and encouraged in the society, hats and
bonnets of home-cured straw were popular
and young girls were taught to braid
in the working meetings of the society.


A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
	The officers and members, of the two
branches of the Relief Society of the West
Weber Ward joined in a surprise given to
President Frances B. Dance on her seven-
tieth birthday. So Tuesday, May 26, the
sisters and a few brethren met at the ward
meeting house, prepared and set tables with
the bounties and luxuries of life, then
awaited her coming, it being the regular
meeting day of the society. As she opened
the door the congregation sang “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” She was
then escorted to her seat at the table. There
were between seventy and eighty persons
who partook of the bounteous feast spread
before them. After all were satisfied, the
tables were cleared and the meeting com-
menced.
	After the usual opening exercises, Sister
Sarah J. Wilson read an original poem in
honor of President Frances B. Dance. Her
counselor, Sister Alvard, in behalf of the
sisters of the West Weber Society, presented
her with a token ot respect, and Sister S. J.
Wilson in behalf of the members of the
Taylor Relief Society, gave her a present to
show the love and esteem in which she is
held by all the people of the ward. Ever
since she left her native land, England, she
has made her home in West Weber, about


thirty years. She has been faithful in at-
tending to all the duties required of her.
	The program rendered consisted of songs
and short speeches, given by the brethren
and sisters, all wishing her many happy
returns of the day, each one felt that the
time had been well spent in showing her
that her labors were appreciated. This
happy event dosed by all singing the Dox-
ology, and benediction was pronounced by
Sarah J. Wilson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.
			UTAH STAKE. 
	A very interesting conference of the Utah
Stake Relief Society was held in the Stake
Tabernacle, Provo, Friday, July 10, 1903,
President Mary John presiding.
	There were present besides the Stake
Presidency, aids and representatives of var-
ious branches, General President Bathsheba
W. Smith, her counselor, Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, and General Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells, from Salt Lake City.
	These sisters gave some excellent instruc-
tions and very able addresses on Relief
Society work. Encouraging reports were
given of ten branches of the Relief Society
in the Stake, and remarks by the two
young ladies who have completed the
nurses’ course at Salt Lake City.
	At one o’clock a delicious dinner was
served in the old Tabernacle to the visiting
ladies.
	The Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed dur-
ing both. sessions, and all returned home
feeling encouraged and benefitted. Had it
been known such distinguished visitors
would be present the attendance would un-
doubtedly have been more than double.
		MABEL WARNER, Sec pro tem.

			BANNOCK STAKE.
	Our Relief Society conference was held
at Soda Springs, July 20, 1903.
	Present on the stand was President Mary
A. Call and Counselor Rosie B. Knowles of
the Stake Presidency.
	It was an afternoon session and was con-
vened at two p. m. There was a little mis-
understanding about it, as we did not ex-
pect to hold our conference till a few days
later; but President Joseph F. Smith and
several brethren from Salt Lake being in
attendance at quarterly conference, Presi-
dent Louis S. Pond kindly gave us the
afternoon, so we held conference then.
	We had a good attendance, all the presi-
dents being there to report except two.
	President Jos. F. Smith gave good in-
struction and offered some timely advice
which if followed out would make us better
women.
	President Lewis S. Pond gave a few en-
couraging words.
	Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Annie T.
Hyde, from Salt Lake, were the principal
speakers and gave us much good counsel
and advice, the subjects being especially for
the Mothers’ Work, teaching the young
mothers the true responsibility of mother-
hood. Truly it was a time of rejoicing
which we know well how to appreciate.
		HANNAH HATCH, Stake Sec.

			DAVIS STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake was held at Farmington, July 30,
1903.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Annie

[Column 2]
T. Hyde were in attendance, also President
John W. Hess and his counselors, J. H.
Grant and Jos S. Clark, the Stake officers
of the Relief Society, Brother Jacob Miller
Bishop Muir and others of the brethren.
The twelve branches of the society were
represented by their presidents, except two.
	During the forenoon session of conference
Presidents Susan Grant, J. W. Hess, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and seven of the local
presidents addressed the meeting. The
Spirit of the Lord was there in rich abun-
dance. At the close of the forenoon meet-
ing it was announced that dinner would be
served in the vestry.
	July 25th being Sister Susan Grant’s
seventy-first birthday, the officers of the
Relief Society in Davis Stake desired to
show at this conference their appreciation
of the labors of the devoted little woman
who presides over them.
	Counselor Jane Holt made the presenta-
tion speech and Counselor Mary S. Clark
placed lovingly around the neck of Presi-
dent Susan Grant a handsome fur.
	Sister Grant thanked the sisters feelingly
and with emotion for the honor bestowed.
	One hundred and seventy-four partook of
the bounteous repast which had been pro-
vided by the Relief Society of Farmington,
which was ample. The tables looked love-
ly with their fruit, flowers, etc and the
waiters were some of our most beautiful
young ladies, officers of the Mutual and
Primary Associations of Farmington.
	The afternoon session began at 2:30 p.
m. After the opening exercises and re-
ports by the presidents, Sisters Annie T.
Hyde, Bathsheba W. Smith and Susan
Grant addressed the congregation, speaking
words of wisdom and inspiration.
	Brother J. H. Grant expressed his great
appreciation of the honor and esteem shown
his “little mother,” as he lovingly calls
her.
	It was a day long to be remembered.
The feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was very apparent.
		M. E. KNOWLTON, Sec.

		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of St.
John’s Stake of Zion was held in the Acad-
emy building at St. John’s, Arizona, May
22, 1903.
	On the stand were Apostle M. F. Cowley
Elder Kelsch, the Stake presidency, Stake
officers of the Relief Society and other lead-
ing sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the
business, minutes, annual reports, etc.,
verbal reports from four branches in the
Stake were given. Reports showed the
average below that desired. In some
places it was due to carelessness, in others
on account of scattered condition, though the
sisters feel well in the Gospel.
	President E. L. S. Udall said: “Since
our last conference we have visited all the
branches of the Relief Society in the Stake,
which took about three weeks time. We
found the sisters in the various settlements
attending to their duties and the average
attendance in the small settlements is great-
er than in the larger ones. We know the
sisters are accomplishing a good work and
the Lord will bless them for it. We sent
one of our sisters to Utah to take a course
in nursing and hope much good will result
from it.”
	President David K. Udall suggested that
the sisters extend an invitation to the breth

[Column 3]
ren to attend the Relief Society conference
if they desire to have them present. “I at-
tended a conference of the Relief Society in
Salt Lake City in April and made some
notes of it. It was stated there that wheat
can be kept eight years without changing.
President Smith said to the sisters ‘Be good
wives and mothers.’ Sisters, improve your
opportunities and if you will I promise you
that you will be blessed with the Spirit of
the Lord.”
	Song sung by Margaret Jarvis, Ethel
Farr and Mary E. B. Farr, with guitar ac-
companiment.
	Elder Kelsch said: “The Relief Society
work is a great one. I have heard this is a
good place to raise beans. If you could not
store grain you could store beans, and you
would not have to change them. We have
been told famine would come aud we do not
know when, so we ought to be prepared for
it. We have been warned of the judgments
of the Lord which will come. We should
have the Spirit of the Lord with us and
have it in our lamps when the Savior
comes, not be asleep spiritually, but be pre-
pared to meet Him at His coming.”
	An instrumental piece was rendered by
Sister Anna L. Anderson.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley was the last speak-
er, he said in substance: “We have been
taken good care of since we came here,
especially by the sisters. I expect to make
a report of you, brethren and sisters, when
go back to Salt Lake City, and it will
be a good report. I have felt well since I
came and felt at home. The sisters are a
great factor in building up this country and
the Lord will bless you for it, and your
salvation is sure providing you endure to
the end. This organization is not to get
you out of place, but to get you in place,
that you may be better wives and mothers
and enable you to work together better as
sisters; to work for the benefit of mankind,
to minister to the sick and perform other
labors in that capacity. I’d like to ask the
brethren to do all in their power to get the
sisters to their Relief Society meetings, so
that when I come again there will be a bet-
ter average attendance. It is a good thing
to have a good wife. The sisters have
their part to play as well as the men. There
are some women who do not stand by their
husbands, who do not do their duties as
wives. Since the coming of the Prophet
Elijah to the Kirtland Temple, the people
of the world have been writing genealogies.
They have been keeping genealogical rec-
ords, but they do not know why. The
Spirit of the Lord moved them they could
not rest day nor night till it was accom-
plished. By this means we have been able
to get the names of our ancestors to work
for in the Temple.
	“The teaching of a mother should be
such that it will remain with the children
through life that no matter what tempta-
tion comes in their pathway, the teachings
of that mother will remain with them and
keep them from sin.” Related the circum-
stance of a man who had all the temptations
of a life of vice placed before him, but when-
ever he was about to yield, the image of his
mother came before him and kept him from
yielding. “Brethren and sisters, if you
ever get into the Celestial Kingdom of our
God and are brought before the judgment
seat of God, and there it is known that you
have a son or daughter in outer darkness
through any neglect of yours, you will not
be permitted to stay there. Mothers, you


[Column 1]
will be responsible for what you teach
your children. I say unto the sisters, if
you will unite your faith, the curse will be
removed from this land, and this land will
be blessed for your good. God bless you.
Amen.”
	Congregation sang “Praise to the man.”
Benediction by Elder E. N. Freeman.
		MARY E. B. FARR, Stake Sec.

			GRANITE STAKE. 
	The 12th quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion was
held in the Forest Dale meetinghouse, May
12th, 1903. Meeting was called to order at
10 o’clock by Counselor Mary P. Young.
Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Patrina Jen-
sen. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Present on the stand were the
following named presidents: Sugar, Sarah
B. Gibson; Wilford, Eliza White; Farmers,
Sarah Turnbow; Forest Dale, Patrina Jen-
sen; East Mill Creek, Ann Eliza Neff; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson; South Cot-
tonwood, Sister Labram; Hunter, Char-
lotte Nielson; Grant, Sister Bird; Murray,
Sister Brown; Taylorsville, Elizabeth Pix-
ton; also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Gen-
eral Board, Mary A. B. Freeze, Margaret
Roberts and Margaret P. Young as visitors,
also President Frank Y. Taylor, of the
Granite Stake.
	Assistant Secretary M. B. Winder then
called the role; minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	Mary P. Young then made a few open-
ing remarks and welcomed the sisters on
behalf of President Emma S. Woodruff,
who was away on duty.
	We then listened to a number of the
presidents make their reports and gave very
interesting accounts of their relief work,
particularly of the good the missionaries
are doing. The work of the teachers and
the sisters who are called to labor in the
Temple, it being the aim and object of the
president, Sister Emma Woodruff, to
have two sisters from each ward sent
under the direction of the Relief Society to
the Temple to work for the dead, and they
are to give their time free of charge for
three months and then others are sent in
their stead, most of the branches of the
wards have done this and hope all will con-
form to this request in the very near future.
	President Sarah A. Thurber reported
that their society had kept two sisters in
the Temple almost continuously since it had
been opened.
	President Eliza B. Neff said if we had a
desire to do good many opportunities would
be presented. That they had an increase of
twenty members in their society.
	President Pixton thought our main ob-
ject was the relief of the poor, the destitute,
the widow and orphan.
	A ladies trio from Forest Dale then sang
a selection.
	President Petrina Jensen, President
Stevenson, President Brown, Counselor
Brockbank, Sister Moody, of Arizona, and
Aid Elizabeth C. Taylor, all gave short
talks and very timely instructions on the
storing of wheat in the days of prosperity,
doing all we can towards the erection of
our new Stake house; also said that we are
to be judged by the books, therefore we
should have our names enrolled in all three
associations.
	Singing, “Glory to God,” after which

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Brother Dunster.
Then all repaired to the Old Farm House,
where the tables were spread with the
bounties of the earth for all present. Din-
ner was prepared by the sisters of Forest
Dale
	Afternoon session. Meeting was called
to order. Singing, “High on the moun-
tain tops.” Prayer, Sister Mary A. Freeze.
Singing, after which President F. Y. Tay-
lor addressed the sisters for a short time in
relation to their duties. He felt to honor
good men and women; that we should seek
to save souls and be willing to work and
carry our part of life’s burden; to be hum-
ble and meek and prayerful; that it was
our duty to bind up the broken hearts
and comfort those who are sad.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said we
should set a good example, speak kind
words and teach children correct principles
in their youth, and be sure and teach them
to pray for the authorities, that they would
be more apt to honor them when they grew
up.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde then read some
instructions for the missionaries when they
travel among their associates. The Relief
Society sisters are to be as ministering
angels. We are to keep the Sabbath day
Holy, attend to family prayers as well as
secret. Should be obedient to those placed
over us, as we expect our children to be
obedient to us.
	A duett was then sung by Sister Maria
B. Winder and Miss Lottie Owen.
	Sister Maggie Roberts: “The Relief Soci-
ety is the grandest organization on earth for
women, the young mothers should join
themselves with the Relief Society. I
know what happiness it is, because I have
tried to be useful.” Spoke of the infidelity
that is growing up among our young peo-
ple, that they do not have the faith of their
parents. Spoke of the necessity of keeping
the Word of Wisdom, and should live very
near our Heavenly Father.
	Closing remarks by Counselor M. P.
Young, and meeting adjourned for three
months.
	Singing, and prayer by Sister Brinton.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Salt Lake
Stake convened June 6, 1903, in the Assem-
bly Hall, President M. I. Horne presiding,
Counselors S. J. Cannon and C. C. Cannon,
and Julia C. Howe M. W. Wilcox and M.
C. Hull, of the Stake Board, being present.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Minutes of March conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she wished to urge
the sisters who have been called to this work,
to appreciate the privilege of doing
ing this very important work, felt every
branch should be represented at the confer-
ences. Spoke of the best books: Brother
Maeser’s book, “Home and Fireside,”
Juvenile, Instructor. WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Era and Young Woman’s Journal are par-
ticularly recommended.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon: “We can usual-
ly be present at our meetings if we make
an effort. Parents who are Latter-day
Saints make the best wives and mothers.
Said do not try to be too flowery in these
lectures that are given, but let them be

[Column 3]
given in humilty that daughters may be
prepared for wives and mothers and leaders
among their sex. Spoke of preparing our-
selves for the trials we have to meet each
day.
	Sister C. C. Cannon felt we had talented
women in our wards. Always feared she
could not rear her children in the world, as
they were not born in Zion. Spoke of the
sin and temptation around us and the neces-
sity of constant care.
	Sister Hull was going on a little journey
of pleasure and expected to do a little mis-
sionary work, sang “Only Remembered.”
	Sister J. C. Howe felt we were ignorant
of the purposes of God in placing us here.
Spoke of the promises to the children of Israel
in keeping the commandments and the fatal
results if they do not. Felt these auxliary
organizations are helps that all may be edu-
cated in the Gospel. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer and the importance of teach-
ing and training the children.
	Sister Wilcox said. “Let us be remem-
bered by what we have done, let us order
our lives.”
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxology.
Benediction, Sister E. Webb.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock by
congregation singing “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Lucy
W. Kimball. A quartette from the Temple
choir then sang. Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and accep-
ted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson exhorted all to be
honest, true to each other and their God,
cultivate union in the home, try to be better
women, teach our children. Spoke of the
need of cleanliness and of family prayer.
Felt if we had kept the Word of Wisdom
there would not be the sickness there is to-
day. Felt it was grand to have so much
parent study, hoped hygiene would be 
taught in our Relief Society everywhere.
	President B. W. Smith spoke of Temple
work.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read from the
Bible. “You have done these things,
sisters, and will receive of these blessings,
blessed is he who is faithful unto the end.
Christ said ‘Follow me,’ if we can do these
things eternal life is ours. Think no evil,
everything is accomplished by love, be gen-
tle and kind to our children, never turn a
child away.”
	Singing by a quartette from the Temple
choir.
	Sister Lucy Kimball spoke of the changed
ordinances and broken covenants of some
of the different churches. She had dedi-
cated her life to the work of God; was com-
forted that we can have the blessings we
earn, and no one can take away the bless-
ings we do earn. Spoke of the power in
prayer and the love the Prophet Joseph
Smith had for it, also the regularity in
which President Heber C. Kimball engaged
in it.
	Sister Elizabeth Webb felt thankful for
the society work. Let us have charity and
love, wished more young mothers belonged
to the society, also spoke of Temple work
	The revelation to Emma Smith was read
and some remarks were made upon it.
	President Horne said, “There is much
talk on the theory of raising children, but
put them into practice, be careful in fault-
finding, etc., the Spirit of God never stays
with us if we complain.”
	Adjourned for three months. Singing,


[Column 1]
Doxology. Benediction, Sister M. W. Wil-
cox.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, in
the Academy chapel, June 5, 1903, with
Stake Aid Mary K. Taylor in charge. After
singing, and prayer by President Andrew
Kimball, the minutes of previous confer-
ence were read and adopted. Roll call
showed an attendance of two Stake and ten
ward officers. President Elizabeth Layton,
Secretary Salina Phillips and Aid Eliza
Walker were excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Aid Mary K. Taylor felt her inability in
conducting a Stake conference. Missed Sis-
ter Layton and counselors.
	The reports of the respective presidents of
the different wards showed that they were
holding meetings regularly, with an in-
crease in the average attendance. Most of
the societies have commenced the Mother’s
Work. Some of them by the advise of the
presiding brethren of their wards sold their
wheat in the spring when prospects were
good for a bountiful harvest, but before the
grain had matured a bug came and de-
stroyed much of it. The consequence is
they have the cash for their wheat on hand
awaiting an opportunity to buy again.
	President Andrew Kimball did not feel
to excuse the sisters for their non-attend-
ance this morning, except those who are
detained on account of sickness. "Presi-
dent Johnson and I met with Sister Layton
this morning and completed the organiza-
tion which has been so broken up through
death and the removal to other localities of
some of the officers. Sister Layton was
very desirous of attending the conference
but it was impossible for her to do so."
	President W. D. Johnson: "I was one
of the Stake presidency when the Stake
organization of this society was effected in
June, 1883. Have attended, with one ex-
ception, every Relief Society conference in
the Stake ever since that date." Explained
that the Stake presidency advised Sister
Layton to choose for her counselors and
secretary sisters residing in the same ward
with herself. He then proceeded to pre-
sent the the names of the new officers which
were as follows: Olive Kimball as first and
Salina Phillips second counselors; Fanny
Kimball secretary, with Samantha Folley
assistant; and Josephine Cluff treasurer;
Emma Coleman, aid. All were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Taylor thought we had an excel-
lent organization The Relief Society is a
it great help to the priesthood. Was pleased
with the reports from the different wards.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m,. Singing,
"Prayer is the soups sincere desire." Bene-
diction by Patriarch John Taylor.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., as per
adjournment. Singing, "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer, President C. M. Layton.
Singing, "O ye mountains high.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Jennie Cluff, late of Guatemala,
was pleased to be with the sisters in con-
ference. Had a delightful trip. The eye
can scarcely conceive of Central America as
a tropical climate. The people are very
kind, pleasant and hard working. Where
ever we go, whether among the rich or
poor, we can do good if we are so inclined.
	Patriarch John Taylor thought the sisters
were doing a good work and we should feel
proud of them. Always took pleasure in
meeting with the Relief Society sisters,
	Laura Nuttall, Stake president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was deeply interested in Relief
Society work. Was pleased with the re-
ports, but thought if we had a greater desire
to do our duty in every particular, there
would be a better report. Should sustain
our presidents and be as willing to accept
their instructions as they are to give them
Our children do not always have the proper
example set before them by their parents.
Mothers, teach your daughters that there is
no greater honor than becoming a wife
and mother. Ask the Lord to help us to
understand our duties and perform the
same.
	Sister Coleman was very much interested
in all the auxiliary organizations. Com-
pared our conditions with those of ancient
Israel in our waywardness and neglecting
o[-]r duties.
	President Andrew Kimball was much in-
terested in the report of the Mothers’ work.
Fathers be considerate of mothers.
thus teaching your children by example the
lesson of kindness and self-sacrifice. Heads
of families see to it that you have at least a
year’s provisions on hand. The prophecy
of Heber C. Kimball that a barrel of flour
would be worth a barrel of gold has not yet
come to pass, but [-]ould as surely as it was
uttered. God grant that we may be pre-
pared for these emergencies.
	President C. M. Layton endorsed the in-
structions of the meeting. Ours is an every-
day religion. We are trying to be good.
Be charitable, do not find fault with each
other, especially those in authority. We
are abundantly blessed, have no hardships
compared with the people of the world.
Encouraged parents to take better care of
their children.
	Singing "Love at Home." Benediction
by Sister Fanny Kimball.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS

Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of

Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel. 2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-	
	ings accounts.	
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos.		Main Street.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, July 25, 1903, President
M. Isabella Horne presiding. After the
usual exercises of singing, prayer and read-
ing of minutes, President Horne addressed
the sisters upon the purposes of the Lord
in dealing with His people, and felt we
were not the judges in these matters and
should not find fault with the priesthood
or the dispensations of Providence, should
teach our children to keep holy the Sabbath
day and not go to places of amusement on


the day set apart for, rest and public wor-
ship; referred to her own childhood days
and the sincerity of her father concerning
the Sabbath. Realized the great responsi-
bility of mothers for the actions of their
children.
	Sister Maria Barnes, Farmer and Martha
Morris each bore faithful testimonies, and
Sister Morris also sang a hymn; she felt we
should appreciate the good instructions
given by Sister Horne.
	Sister Amy A. Thomas was glad she
had been born and raised in the Church,
knew the Lord heard and would answer
our prayers concerning our children.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon, Sister Nellie
Bemont and Mary P. Silver bore testimony
and spoke feelingly of the young people of
Zion.
	Sister Castleton had visited the Primary
and M. I. A. in Idaho and spoke of the
good reports and large attendance at the
meetings.
	Sister Margaret A. Romney felt thankful
for the Relief Society and appreciated the
good band of sisters over whom she pre-
sided.
	Sister Frances Smith, Hague, Luff and
Williams, also Sister Rachel Leatham bore
excellent testimonies of the Gospel, its
healing power and their joy in baptism for
the dead.
	Singing, Doxology. Meeting adjourned
for one month. Benediction by Counselor
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


Miss Elizabeth Porter Gould, of Boston,
poet of the Massachusetts Floral Emblem
Society, has just published an interesting
little book entitled, “John Adams and 
Daniel Webster as Schoolmasters.”
	Miss Jessie Gibson, of Indianapolis, Ind.,
who was recently graduated from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has
just entered into partnership with her
father, and is the first woman architect in
Indianapolis.


<Margaret E. Baird>

									Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

