      Vol. 32         					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JANUARY, 1904                                       No. 8.


CONTENTS.

The International Council of Women...........
............May Wright Sewall 

Mothers’ Work............................. 

Scripture Women.........Hannah T. King    

Raymond Reunion......................

Religious Devotion in the Home.... L. M. H. 

Women in Art at the Exposition.............
...........Countess De Montigu 

Sketch of the Lite of Sister Mary E. Knight
Bassett................ Lydia D. Alder 

In Memoriam............................... 

R. S. Reports............................. 

The Gracious Woman........................ 

EDITORIAL—One Hundredth Anniversary—
Hail to the New Year.................  

POETRY—She is not Dead. E. H. Woodmansee 

         Going Home...............Lydia D. Alder 

Idyle....................Hannah T. King


SHE IS NOT DEAD.
Lines commemorative of the centennial birthday
		of Eliza R. Snow Smith.
	Born January 21, 1804—Died December 5, 1887.

She is not dead—the tunefnl bard who sung
	For Zion’s children in these latter days
She is not dead, whose harp the angels strung,
	Whose lyre resounded with immortal lays.

She is not dead, whose words of living fire
	Enthuse and keep so many hearts aglow,
Whose melodies awaken pure desire
	And help the seeds of righteousness to grow.

She is not dead, whose utterance was replete.
	With timely counsel for the old and young.
Whose wise reproof, blent with compassion sweet.
	Warmed and revivified the faltering one. 

She is not dead, who toiled for Zion’s cause,
	Truth’s advocate! endowed with noble zeal,
Truly her fixed determination was
	To do on earth our heavenly Father’s will.

The cheering strains her tuneful soul outpoured.
	Pure streamlets, fresh from inspiration’s spring,
Delight and consolation oft afford.
	Joy to appreciative souls they bring. 

Just now her friendly face we cannot see,
	But none the less fond mem’ry holds her dear,
She lives! She lives and sings rejoicingly.
	With many loved ones in a loftier sphere.
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
Salt Lake City.


GOING HOME.*
I’m going home! the path I may not now discern;
The shadow left, oh! ne’er again shall I return.
My Father, hold my hand, oh! I can never stray.
He safe will guide me o’er the dark and troubled
	way.

Oh, list! I hear him call so softly calling me;
I hear his gentle voice, though him I cannot see.
The valley winds so far, where a stranger I go:
The music sweetly sounds, like rippling waters’
	flow.

Faint breezes, fresh and chill, waft o’er my weary
	brow.
They soothe to sleep, to sleep. Oh, I am waiting
	now.
Go home! how beautiful to me! The way not long;
At ev’ry step I hear a low, sweet murm’ring song.

The river seems so deep, its waters smooth and
	clear;
I lie upon its bosom, my heart knows no fear;
O Father, hold me close, I am coming to you;
Is this Death’s unknown valley I am passing
	through?

	*While ministering at the bedside of one of the
Saints in England who seemed near to death,
when suddenly opening her eyes she said, “Sister,
I’m going home; I hear my Father, call.” By
faith she was healed for a time, but has long since
gone to answer the summons heard at that time.


Away o’er yonder hills, a mansion fair I see,
O Father, is it mine, that you have given me?
O world, good bye! a father’s love I e’er have
      known,
To Him I go—I’m going home, I’m going home.
                                          LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
					December 30, ’03.
To the Members of the National Council of
	Women of the United States:

	DEAR FRIENDS:—For two reasons it
seems not inappropriate that I should ask
space in various women’s papers to address
a word to you concerning the approaching
Executive of the National Council which is
to be held in Indianapolis the week begin-
ning February 1st. It is not unnatural
that I should have a special interest in the
success of that session of the Executive
which is to be held in my own city. The
only session of the Executive of the Na-
tional Council ever held in Indianapolis
was convened here by its President, the
honored and regretted Frances E. Willard,
in May of 1888, when the only members of
the Executive were the five members of the
general officers of the Council and the pres-
dents of the two national organizations
which then constituted the Council. Now
that the Executive includes, besides its five
general officers, three living Honorary
Presidents, and the Presidents of twenty-
two national organizations, and of eleven
Local Councils, it would seem, as if its
growth justifies the expectation which is
entertained that the Executive Session will
be full of interest for the public, as well as
of importance for the Council.
	Preparations for the reception and enter-
tainment of the Executive are being made
by the Local Council of Indianapolis, than
which none stronger exist in our country,
and by the Commercial Club, the leading
body of business men in Indianapolis.
That the National Executive will convene
under such strong local auspices is surely
an argument that the National Council
cannot resist to be well represented. The
still stronger argument for making what-
ever sacrifices may be involved in attend-
ance upon this session exists in the import-
ance of the particular work to be done.
	It is not unknown to the members of the
National Council that the Third Quinquen-
nial of the International Council will convene
in Berlin on June 6th of 1904, and that the
Qainquennial, which will occupy one week
will be followed by an International Con-
gress held under its auspices and arranged
for by the National Council of Germany,
which will continue through the next week.
The National Council of the United States,
like all other affiliated Councils within the
International, has a right to the following
representation at the Berlin Quinquennial,
namely:—
	First. One member on the Committee of
Arrangements for the Executive of the In-
ternational.
	Second. Two delegates.

[Column 2]
	Third. Two alternates for said delegates.
	Fourth. One speaking representative of
the Council who will make an address at
the second public session of the Quinquen-
nial, when every National Council will
have an opportunity to give a brief survey
of its own, and to state the International
aspect of its work. All of these represent-
atives are to be elected by ballot at the ap-
proaching Executive Session. It behooves
every member of the Executive to be pres-
ent, since the united wisdom, discrimina-
tion, and judgment of the Executive should
be brought to bear upon the vital question
of who these five representatives of the
American Council shall be. This, however,
is not the only important and particular
work of the approaching Executive.
	Last March, in New Orleans, a special
committee was appointed to investigate the
condition of affairs at St. Louis, and to
study the best possible representation of the
effort of the Council in St. Louis during the
months of the exposition. The committee
whose chairman is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollis-
ter, of Detroit, has undoubtedly performed
its duty faithfully, and it will have a plan
of representation which will interest every
member of the Council, and the judgment
of every member will be needed in the con-
sideration of this plan, and the considera-
tion of fhe means by which it may ba suc-
cessfully executed.
	Besides these matters of importance,
there are important reports from the stand-
ing committees, especially from the com-
mittee on Resolutions, which has had be-
fore it during the last year questions of ex-
ceptional importance.
	Then there will be the representation of
American women in the International Con-
gress, which is to follow the Third Quin-
quennial, to consider. Before February 1,
advices will undoubtedly be received from
Germany which will enable the President
of the International Council, whom Mrs.
Swift has appointed a special committee of
one on the representation of the American
Council at Berlin, to give a report of great
interest concerning the preparations that
are being energetically carried forward by
the tactful President of the German Coun-
cil and her able associates.
	The names of over one hundred women
have been proposed by the members of the
Executive of the American National Coun-
cil, as candidates for the honor of speaking
in some section of the International Con-
gress. All of these names have been for-
warded to the German Committee of Ar-
rangements. It goes without saying that
it will be quite impossible that all shall be
invited. The Council will have more than
doubled since the Second Quinquennial,
held in London in 1899, and, as the Inter-
national Congress is convened for the same,
length of time as in London, the number of
speakers that can be invited from any one
of the twenty-two countries, that will doubt-
less be within the International Council be-
fore June, will, naturally, be less than the 
number which could be invited from any
one of the nine countries constituting the


International Council five years ago. There
can be no doubt that the desire ot the Ger-
man Committee of Arrangements to invite
a just proportion of speakers from the
American Council is keen and sincere. It
is not improbable that the letters of invita-
tion will have been received prior to our
Executive. Then there must be a canvass
to ascertain who among the invited can go.
If, for any, it should prove impossible, then
again, there will be an opportunity to nomi-
nate available substitutes.
It is evident that the program for the ap-
proaching Executive (aside from the charm-
ing social entertainments which will be ar-
ranged for it, and the brilliant evening of
public exposition with which it will enter-
tain the public) will hold work enough of
sufficient interest to induce the members of
the Executive from far and near to meet in
this fair city of the Middle West.
Already it is known that the indefatiga-
ble President of the Council, Mrs. Mary
Wood Switt, who on Council business has
already crossed the continent four times
within the last ten months, will make an-
other long journey again from San Francis-
co to preside in person. May the loyalty
of her associates attested by their presence,
justify to her her own energetic services to
the Council.

MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
President of the International Council of
Women.
    Henorary President of the National
Council of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS' WORK.
			TOOELE STAKE.
	Marriage is ordained of God unto man,
that the earth might answer the end of its
creation, and “Be filled with the measure of
man, according to his creation before the
world was made’’ (Doc. and Cov. 49:
15-I7).

Lecture I.—Marriage.
		(a) What is object of marriage?
	(b) Preparation of our lives before-
	hand, (c) Kind of companion to
	choose, (d) Ordained by God. (e)
	Necessary for salvation of man (I Cor.
	11:  11). (f) Relation and duties.
	(g) What is result of marriage if not
	performed in the Lord’s house?

Lecture II.—Home.
	By the fire side still the light is shining
	The children’s arms round the parents twining
	From love so, sweet, O! who would roam? 
	Be it ever so homely, home is home.
			(a) Moral and religious influences in
		the home, (b) Adorning and irnprov-
		ing. (c) Affections and kindnessess.
		(d) Proper reading in home, (e) Family
		prayer.

Lecture III.—Motherhood and Maternity.
	What more charming sight than a rosy,
robust young woman, full of vigor, life,
strength, her step elastic, bounding, her
face radiant, presence magnetic. To such,
there need be fears, or forebodings in
maternity?
			(a) Why is it necessary that a woman
		should be more spiritually minded
		during maternity than any other time?
		(b) What special benefits are derived
		by observing the word of wisdom
		during this period? (c) Show the bene-
		fit of a woman endeavoring to control

[Column 2]
		her emotions, appetites etc. at this
		time; how would this effect the-unborn
		child?

Lecture IV.—Pre-natal Influences.
			(a) Why is it necessary to cultivate
		a cheerful disposition and be fully
		occupied during maternity? (b) To
		what extent is woman responsible for
		the disposition and character of her
		children. State how her habits in
		fluence the child, (c) What special
		attraction should be given to dress.

Lecutre V.—Training Children at Home.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”
			(a) Love and respect for parents.
		(b) Honor and respect for the priest-
		hood. (c) Be kind to the aged. (d)
		Teach the children to sacrifice some of
		their pleasure for the happiness of
		others.

Lecture VI.—Proper Amusements.
		‘‘Life is only too short at the best
		Let the children be happy today.” 
			(a) The reading of good books. (b)
		Telling of moral and Bible stories by
		mothers.  (c) Music.  (d) Proper gaines.
		(e) Allow the children to have things
		to work with, this will awaken within
		them a love for work as they grow
		older, for “An idle brain is the devil’s
		work shop.” (f) Allow plenty of
		play and exercise.
									EMILY J. ANDERSON,
									ALICE R. WOOLLEY,
									EMMA A. JUDD.
_______

					CACHE STAKE.
I.—Parents in the Home.
	‘‘God help us parents to live aright
	And may our homes all love and truth unfold,
	Since life for us no loftier aim can hold,
	Than leading children to the light.”
		Our children the mirror of the home.
	—Love in the home. —Confidence in
	the heme.—Co-operation in the home.
	—Less work in the home.—Play be-
	tween parents and children.—Music as
	a means of government.—On these
	subjects the March No , 1903, of Chil-
	dren’s Friend, is fine used as a refer-
	ence.	
II.—Father.
‘‘Give me for a friend a man.
Who takes the children on his knee
And winds their curls about his hand.”
						Tennyson.
		The 20th century father.
	Too much business.—Respect for
	father as the head.—Sharing business
	affairs with mother and children, that
	they may help bear the burden.—
	Confidence between father and chil-
	dren.—His influence in family worship.
	—“The divine motherhood and fath-
	erhood never weary in well doing and
	never grows old.”

III.—Mother.
“Oh mother love, love that no eras ever forgets, 
Wonderful bread that God divides and multiplies,
Table always spread beside the parental hearth
Each one has its part of it and each one has it all."
								Victor Hugo.

[Column 3]
	Great responsibility of mother.—
Hearty co operation with the father in
his religious government.—Necessity
of daily advancement of the mother as
God’s great teacher.—Systematic work
and order in every thing that we may
have more time.—Work less, direct
more.

The wonderful power of self control:
	1. In replying to father’s criticism.
2. Suppress fault finding in the whole
family. 3. Confidence between mother
and children sustained and encou[-]aged
4. Prayer the great key to a mother’s
success. Her example the guiding
star. 6. The mother’s influence in
cultivating respect for the Priesthood
and reverence for sacred things. 
IV.
			Sentiment.

‘‘The little children all are flowers sent,
From heavenly gardens above.
With minds as fresh as new turned earth
To be planted deep with love
And the years of our care will quickly tell,
On the flowers our Gardener loves so well.”
					Maud Lima Betts.

The new child. Why he is new.
	New inventions. New schools. New
methods. New father. New mother.
Why not new child?
	1. New training necessary. 2. The
new century will be the children’s.
3. Jesus’ words must be fulfilled:
“Except ye become as a little child. ”

V.— The greatest rights of the child today.
	1. Better examples and suitable com-
panions. 2. Organized material to play
with. 3. To be sympathized with,
stories told, songs and play. 4. To be
treated courteously. 5. To be allowed
to do as he wishes as long as it is right,
if wrong direct him aright. 6. To be
intelligently answered. To have his
motive understood, and if wrong re-
moved by reasoning. (Illustration).
Motive for lying is often fear or vanity.
7. To be punished for the wrong, not
to satisfy the parents, but to impress
the child. 8. To be allowed to suffer
the consequences of his own folly in-
stead of corporal punishment.

VI.—Neighbors.
	‘‘Thy neighbor, it is he whom thou,
	Has power to aid and bless.’'
			Sentiment.
	“Today I shall love my neighbors and
see in them only what God intended and
what each of us longs and strives to be.”
	1. Selection of neighborhood when
	possible. 2. Remedies for bettering
	the neighborhood, if not desirable.
	3. Visiting or gossiping with neigh-
	bors. 4. Evils of back-biting, on us,
	on our childien, on our neighbors.
	5.Bring in the wayward children and
	play with them and our children, do
	not allow them to play together alone.
	6.Teach our child that he (the way-
	ward one) is not bad but injured oft by
	ignorant guardians.
					EDITH LAMOREAUX,
					ZINA YOUNG CARD,
					MARY E. SMITH,
					JULIA A. STEWART,
					LOIS KERR,
							Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IDYL.

Sympathy’s a holy, feeling,
Sent us from the realms above,
Soothing sorrow by revealing
    Fragments of a heaven-born love.

Such a love as angels witness.
   Such a love as angels feel;
Possessing, by its holy fitness,
Power, the wounds of grief to heal,

When the heart is bowed in sorrow,
When the spirit’s bent with grief,
When we feel that no tomorrow
Has the power to bring relief,

Then the sympathetic hand
Sweetly pours the “oil and wine,”
And I ever understand. 
Such to be a law divine.

Human nature, unpolluted,
Is a deep, pellucid stream;
Full and flowing, undiluted
By the world's deceptive dream.

Full of rich and glorious beauties,
Beauties that are half divine,
Fitting us for holy duties,
Through the daily round of time;

Fitting us to gladden any
Who may come within our sphere,
Be they few, or be they many,
There are ever some to cheer.

All have gifts committed to them
For the gocd of those around,
And the good, transmitted through them,
In the future will be found.

Sympathy! thou heaven-born feeling,
Dwell forever in my heart;
Teach me, by thine own revealing,
How I may sweet peace impart.

When I meet a spirit bent
Down by sorrow and despair,
And I’ll feel a sweet content
To chase away the grief and care.

I shall bless myself in blessing
Those who sorrow, those who mourn,
For beneath love’s sweet caressing
I shall gather sweet return.

My own shoulder will be lightened
Of the load it has to bear,
And my spirit will be brightened
By the sympathy I share.

Sympathy’s a link that binds us
In creation’s mystic chain,
And when’er its spirit finds us,
God is near to heal the pain.

God of love! oh, grant I ever
To do good may have the will;
Take thy spirit from me never, 
Then I’ll be thy daughter still.

HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
[Continued].
	RUTH AND NAOMI - These two most
lovely and exemplary characters, can never 
be separated in time or in eternity. The 
history of Ruth ought to be read and 
studied by all young girls, and indeed even 
mature characters must be edified by the 
study of her purity and devotion. Naomi 
was her mother-in-law, she having been
left a widow with two sons, Ruth being 
the wife of one of them, but soon both the 
young men died, and their young widows
then gave fond affection to the mother of 
their loved ones, she also loved them very 
much; but after a little while, Naomi feel-
ing bereft and desolate, resolved to return
 to the land of Judah, and advised her 
daughters in-law to remain each in the 
house of her husband. But they wept 
bitterly at the thought of parting with the 
mother of their beloved husbands, and felt
 they could not leave her, but she used all

[Column 2]
her own sweet logic, full of beautiful prin-
ciple, that at last, weeping bitterly, and
kissing her affectionately, Orpah consented
to do as she wished her, and she bade her 
farewell; but the love and devotion of Ruth 
would not allow her to listen to her words, 
but clinging to her she sobbed forth "En-
treat me not to leave thee, or to return from 
following thee, for whither thou goest, I 
will go, and where thou lodgest, I will 
lodge; thy people shall be my people, and 
thy God my God; where thou diest, there
will I be buried; the Lord do so to me and 
more also, if aught but death part thee and 
me." Then Naomi could not resist her 
love, and devotion to herself; and permitted 
her to accompany her, and they went and 
dwelt in Bethlehem, in the house of Naomi.
And Ruth was obedient to her counsel like 
a child, and they were received by a very 
rich man, and treated with kindness and 
consideration, he was a relative of Naomi's 
and in due time he took Ruth as his wife 
according to the law of their faith, and 
through that lineage, in after years, came
the Savior of the world.
	Now we come to Hannah, a woman re-
markably blest of the Lord, she was living 
in plural marriage and was beloved and es-
teemed by her husband, but she had no 
child, while the other wife had several;
and "they went up out of the city yearly to
 worship, and to sacrifice unto the Lord of 
Hosts in Shiloh," and while there she
vowed to the Lord, that if He would give 
her a son, she would dedicate him from his 
birth to His service all the days of his life,
and the Lord heard and granted her prayer;
and in due time Samuel was born, and he 
was reared in the Temple of the Lord, his 
character is without spot or blemish, no
other in the sacred Scriptures, (except the 
Savior) can be so spoken of; and she carried 
him up to the Temple and said, "I have 
lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth,"
and he worshiped the Lord there.
	Abigail next appears, and though her 
history takes up only half a chapter, it is 
very full and expressive. Her husband 
was a churlish and penurious man, and a 
drunkard, and rudely refused David, the 
champion of the armies of Israel, supplies 
for his starving soldiers, and David deter-
mined to take by force of armies, that 
which he had in all courtesy solicited, and 
had been refused; Abigail being apprized 
of his intention, calls her servants and 
orders them to collect a handsome and
suitable present for the generalissimo, and 
taking five of her maidens to accompany 
her, sets out for the Camp of Israel, and 
when she saw David she alighted from her
 mule, making the eastern salaam of bowing 
her face to the ground." Her language is 
womanly and beautiful, yet vigorous and 
prophetic; and David was so charmed by 
her modest eloquence, that he accepted her 
present for his needy soldiers and cancels 
the order he had issued, and the preparation 
he had made to wrest by force from Nabal, 
that which he had churlishly refused, and 
David candidly told Abigail that the Lord
had sent her to him to prevent him shed-
ding the blood of her household, and bid 
her go in peace to her house "see I have 
hearkened to thy voice, and accepted thy
peace offering."
	It seems we ought not to pass over Mi-
chal the daughter of King Saul whom he 
gave to David for a wife, and it appears she 
was true and faithful for a time, and even
at one time, by a stratagem, saved the life
of David, when her mad father had deter-

[Column 3]
mined to destroy him. But in after times 
when David had passed through much trial 
and persecution, and become king, and was 
returning home in triumph, bringing with 
him the ark of the Lord, had offered sacri-
fices to the Lord in gratitude and in the joy
of his heart "danced before the ark, Michal
 looked out of a window and despised him, 
and as he returned to bless his household,
 Michal came out to meet him," and spoke 
sneeringly and sarcastically to him, and 
David rebuked her in high-toned language,
 and it appears she was never again his 
wife; there is a mystery about all this, that 
Scripture has not seen fit to elucidate, but 
it seems she was a small-minded woman 
though a king's daughter, and was utterly 
incapable of appreciating her noble hus-
band; jealousy was probably a powerful
ingredient in her composition and charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charit-
able commentary, and where doubt exists 
all should have the benefit of it, that is 
English Law and it is a righteous one.
	THE QUEEN OF SHEBA- Thirteen ver-
ses only, tell the history of her renowed 
visit to King Solomon, she came to see and 
hear his wisdom, his grandeur, and his 
greatness; she had been told of it in her 
own country but could not believe it, but 
she closes her exclamations of surprise and 
wonder by saying "The half was not told 
me! Happy are the men, happy are these 
thy servants who stand continually before
thee and hear thy wisdom," and they ex-
changed very precious gifts, and she re-
turned rejoicing to her own land. She was 
appreciative and was desirous of adding to
her own mind knowledge and wisdom.
How few possess this faculty, a small mind
 never, the truly great are ever humble and 
childlike, ever ready to learn.
	April I, 1878.


RAYMOND REUNION.
		STIRLING, Dec. 8, 1903.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	At 4 p. m. on Nov. 26, 1903, the sisters 
of the Taylor Stake Relief Society held a
reunion in the Raymond Town Hall. On
the stand were the Stake and Ward officers 
of the Relief Society, Counselor Wm,
Knight of the Stake Presidency, and Bishop
Anderson of Raymond and Elder Geo. H.
Brimhall. On account of sickness, Stake
President Hannah M. Russell and her
Counselor Elizabeth Hardy were not
present and First Counselor Rozilla Grant
presided. President Russell came in later,
however, and in her usual happy manner
made every one anxious to assist her in
making it a day long to be remembered by 
those fortunate enough to be present. As
the Stake conference was so near at hand,
and the wards are so scattered the officers
thought it best to combine the two, so the
quarterly reports were made. During the
afternoon the program consisted of songs,
speeches and recitations, and the serving of
a delicious lunch. An “old time” party
and farce entitled “Woman’s Rights,”
completed what was voted a most enjoyable
time by all present, and all returned to
their homes with good wishes in their 
hearts for the Relief Society of this Stake.
		GERTRUDE W. CANNON,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
Stirling, Alberta, N. W. T., Canada.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1904


ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY.
		ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Thursday, Jan. 21, 1904, was the birth-
day of our beloved sister Eliza R. Snow,
poetess of Zion who wrote the immortal
hymn “O, My Father,” that has been sung
in many lands and translated into several
languages.
	The day was lovingly commemorated at
the home of Mrs Isabel M Whitney Sears,
the invited guests were the General Board
of the Relief Society and missionaries and
some old friends of sister Eliza’s. Sixty
ladies were invited but the inclement weath-
er kept some at home.
	The decorations were simple though ar-
tistic, and very appropriate. The General
President of the Relief Society; Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith was present and gave some
pleasing reminiscences of her long and inti-
mate association with the gifted poetess
Sister Margaret P. Young who crossed the
plains in the same wagon with Sister Eliza,
in 1847, gave some touching incidents of
their journey and their life afterwards in
the famous Lion House. Mrs. Amelia F.
Young also told of the love and friendship
and intimacy of Sister Eliza and herself in
the family of President Young. Mrs.
Amanda Kimball talked of Winter Quarters
and of her Mother Sister Gheen taking Sis-
ter Eliza out riding in Bishop Hunter’s
carriage.
	Other Sisters spoke of her in praise and
commendation of her great work and Mrs.
E. B. Wells spoke of her long acquaintance
with her and appreciation of her teachings
and read a poem written by Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee which will be found in this
issue of the paper.
	Dainty refreshments were served and the
time enjoyably spent in conversation and re-
marks by Sisters who had been associated
with her in the Society, and closed the aft-
ernoon with singing, O, My Father, and 
prayer by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams.


[Column 1]
	HAIL TO THE NEW YEAR.

“The wave is breaking on the shore—
	The echo fading from the chime—
Again the shadows moveth o’er
	The dial-plate of time!”

	What shall the new year bring to the
Saints and to the world? Who can tell?
none unless by the spirit of prophecy. That
it may be laden with prosperity and every

[Column 2]
good gift and blessing for humankind—is
the uppermost thought in the minds of
those who are laboring for the establish-
ment of righteousness and peace. We
should lift our hearts in praise and grati-
tude to our Father in heaven for all His
manifold blessings vouchsafed to His people
in the past, and pray fervently for His
continued mercy and care in the future,
whatever may be their lot. It is the only
hope to trust in Him who knoweth all our
weaknesses, our trials, and who alone can
help us in bettering our lives, and in keep-
ing His commandments, that He has given
to guide us that we may be able to with-
stand evil influences and the powers of 
darkness. If we do this, if we cling to
him, in mighty faith; in daily prayer, in
loving assurance of His watchfulness, then
we shall not fail in obedience to the Spirit,
the still small voice within by which we
may discern between right and wrong. If 
we could always say as the poet Whittier
wrote.

“Amid the maddening maze of things,
	And toss’d by storm and flood:
To one fixed trust my spirit clings—
	I know that God is good.”

	We have the truth and that should make
us content to go on our way rejoicing even
though afflictions come, and trials encom-
pass round about. When one considers the
prosperity of Zion, how the Lord has deliv-
ered his people again and again, it gives
one hope and faith in the future and in-
spires one to greater earnestness in following
out the injunctions of the Savior to love
one’s neighbor, to try and pattern one’s 
life after the golden rule, and draw near in
spirit to the fountain of light and goodness.
	Life holds much that is pleasant to con-
template and to enjoy, and what may be
coming towards us of good we may not
know, and perhaps the very things we have
hoped for and worked for may be near.
	At any rate Zion’s interests are ours, and
Zion prospers, therefore, “all is well.” In
the movement for higher education our peo-
ple have indeed made rapid strides, and the
good work is still going forward. In refer-
ence to woman’s work in the organizations
among our people very much has been ac-
complished, in the way of progress, during
the last two or three years, in spiritual
and in intellectual growth as well as tem-
poral things. The women of our Church
are not behind in anything that will pro-
mote true culture and advancement, they
stand for the highest, and best in education,
literary, scientific, moral and spiritual.
	Our women missionaries go out among
the people, encouraging and instructing and
blessing the sisters young and old, and all 
who will come to listen to their teachings.
	They are never weary in well-doing,
their hearts are in the work of reform and
upliftment, and they carry with them, we
believe, the spirit of their mission, and go
forth in humility of heart upon their er-
rands of love, trusting in God and seeking
to do His will.
	The daughters of Zion are being taught
in all that will make them good wives,
mothers, and home makers; to the writer it
seems no stone is left unturned, no maxim
untaught, that will help our girls to fulfill
their mission here upon the earth in the
wisest and most excellent way.
	We mothers must not fail in the efforts
we have made and are making for the en-
lightenment of those around us, we must
“let our light shine,” and carry the glad

[Column 3]
tidings we have heard to our friends, our
neighbors, our companions, and to the
stranger also, whether within our gates or
elsewhere.
	Great events are at hand, greater perhaps
than any we have known heretofore, and
they may require great courage, as well as
zeal and wisdom. If our souls are fortified
with faith and are clothed upon with the
armor of righteousness, then there need be
no fear of failure. Steadfastness to the
truths revealed for our guidance and main-
taining our integrity before the Lord will 
give safety and eventually victory to the
Saints of God. Meantime diligence in bear-
ing testimony to those who know not the
ways of the Lord, and to each other, will
make us strong to do the work required at
our hands. Activity in spiritual matters as
well as temporal is needful, and eternal vig-
ilance and fidelity.


RELIGIOUS DEVOTION IN THE HOME.

“In the home!" What sweet memories
these words recall to those who have left
their childhood home and established one of
their own, and the dearest thoughts are
given to Mother. For she it was, who bore 
all our childish pains and troubles and was
the recipient of all our joy and pleasure.
To her wise counsels we owe much of the 
success of our lives.
	The duties of a mother are without
number. Not only does it devolve upon
her to properly clothe and feed the little
ones God has entrusted to her care, but 
she is responsible for their moral and men-
tal development.
	"The home is the basis of society." It has
been said that the home is the cradle of the
nation, and it is, most assuredly, the found-
ation stone upon which the thoughts and 
acts of mankind are built. How necessary
it is then, for us to have the Spirit of God
dwelling in our hearts and homes, and a 
prayer ever in our hearts ascending to
heaven for aid and guidance.
	What is prayer? The poet says—

Prayer is the Soul’s sincere desire,
	Uttered or unexpressed,
The motion of a hidden fire,
	That trembles in the breast.
	“Prayer is the simplest form of speech,
	That infant lips can try,
	Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach
	The majesty on high."
	The devotional exercises of the home,
should be directed by the father, but if the 
father is absent, then it devolves upon the 
mother to call her family around her, be-
fore beginning the duties of the day, and
kneel in prayer. If we are earnest and sin-
cere in our supplications, impressions are 
made on the tender minds of our little ones,
which time can never eradicate. A faith is
instilled in their hearts, that wiil never die
out. They may, in after years, turn aside
and do wrong, but this faith, or a spark of
it at least is still slumbering in their hearts.
I do not believe in long dry family prayers,
where there are little tots for they soon
grow restless and uneasy, and would soon
form a dislike for them, but make them
short and so that they can understand
them. In our daily petitions, we should
ask for those things, only, which we abso-
lutely need and leave all the rest to His
judgment and mercy. If we are continually
praying, before our children for certain
things that God in His infinite wisdom does
not see fit to bestow, then we weaken their


[column 1]
faith in the efficacy of prayer. "A few
years ago I heard a little girl who had lost
a baby brother say, "I don't believe it does 
any good to pray for we just prayed and 
prayed and then baby died," Oh, how that
child's faith was weakened by not being
taught, "Not my will but Thine, Oh Lord;
be done." When we prepare to kneel in
prayer see that every child is in its proper
place, that no contentions exist, that little
hands and faces, as well as hearts, are
clean and pure; then rest assured your peti-
tions will be carried to the throne of God,
and a peace and joy will pervade your
homes that no amount of wordly prosperity
can give, then you will have strength and
courage to face and battle with each days
trials and temptations.

	"He prayeth best, who loveth best,
		All things both great and small,
	For the great God, who loveth us,
		He made and loveth all."
	We are a very busy, active people, and
we do not have the time or at least do not
take it for singing at our devotions. But
mothers, we would lighten our labors and
lessen our cares a hundred fold, if we sang
instead of sighing and if, when things go
wrong we hum a hymn in place of scolding.
Many of us perhaps have not the ability to
sing like a Patti or Lucy Emma Gates, but
our voices however poor, are dearer to
those we love the best.
	The spirit of discontent and unhappiness
will not remain long in a room, Where,
"Oh my Father," The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning" or a hundred others of our
glorious hymns are sung.
	We should ever be watchful and prayer-
ful and seek the spirit of inspiration con-
tinually, for Satan is ever on the alert to 
catch our unwary feet and while we can
not always be singing and praying, we can 
have a prayer always in our hearts for di-
vine aid, for—

	"Sacred song invites the Holy Spirit
	Prayer invokes the blessings of God.

	The character and principles of the man
or woman is formed almost invariably by
the mother in infancy for—“As the twig is 
bent so is the tree inclined." She should in-
stil into the little tender minds the great
and redeeming principle of Faith. Teach 
them to love and venerate our heavenly
Father, and to hold sacred His holy name.
If we impressed this upon our children at
home as we should, we would not hear so
much profanity from our boys upon the
street.
	Of course, while we are teaching, these
things, we are also attending to the physi-
cal needs of our nature, so at proper times
we all gather around the table spread with
bounteous gifts from God, and should re-
turn grateful and heartfelt thanks and even
the youngest child should have its turn in
lisping thanks.

	"Between the dark and daylight
		When night begins to lower
	Comes a pause in the day's occupation
		That is known as the children's hour,"
	In this hour let us gather our dear ones
around us and take the Bible, the Book of
Mormon, the Doc. and Cov. or any of our
good church works, read a little, converse
upon and explain the principles of the 
Gospel. Let each member take an active 
part and they will become more interested
and will derive a greater benefit; as Bro.
Lyman says: "Knowledge obtained by
[Column 2]
hearing the word of God, establishes faith
in a child, for Him and His works, and this
faith firmly rooted is not easily shaken."
	LIBBIE MERRILL HENDRICKS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN ART AT THE EXPOSITION.

	As women’s interests in any walk of
life are identical with men’s the idea of
separating their exhibits from those of the
sterner sex seems to be invidious. Each
decade of the world’s history marks a
corresponding improvement of woman.
The patchwork and decorative exhibits
once a feature of State and National Fairs
are things of the past. Women applying
themselves to the higher walks of art, are
fast emerging from the chrysalis state
which has until the last few years been
deemed their proper place. In the Arts,
Sciences and Industries they have dis-
covered the outlet for talents hithertho con-
cealed in the embryo.
	In the Columbian Exposition women
were afforded opportunities of demonstrating
their ability along lines hitherto usurped by
men. The inaugurators of the “Louisiana
Purchase Exposition” which will be on a
more magnificent scale than that of any the
world has yet seen, have shown great
liberality toward women. Their work has
been placed on a par with that of men and
not separately classified as has been the
case in previous expositions. They were
invited to compete for decorations of the
various United States buildings and re-
sponded eagerly.  Genius has received its
adequate reward, and the talented young
women who have been awarded contracts
for artistic work will go forth to the world
as brilliant examples of what men are
pleased to call the weaker sex, can accom-
plish. It is gratifying to realize that women
have at least secured a portion of the half
million to be disbursed by the managers of
the Exposition for the beautifying of its
most important buildings and grounds.
	The assistant landscape architect is a
St. Louis woman, Miss Eda A. Sutter-
meister, and her talent has been embodied
in the artistic laying out of the Cascade
Gardens. There is a trio of artificial Cas-
cades, the most extensive ever before pro-
jected, which will send their crystal showers
down the graceful slope of the terraced hill
in front of the majestic Festival buildings
and the Colonnade of States, which form
the most important decorative feature of
the grounds.
	Miss Suttermeister’s botanical training
stood her in good stead, and she was chosen
to select the plants and flowers which are
to lend their requisite color scheme to the
fairy-like Cascade Gardens. Not only is
this lady possessed of a technical knowledge
of botany but she has revealed her executive
side by placing herself at the head of a corps
of gardeners whom she directed in the
setting out of the shrubs and flowers to be
planted on the grounds.
	Another St. Louis woman has demon-
strated her genius for sculptural work.
This young lady, Miss Carrie Wood,
daughter of Judge Horatio D. Wood of the
Circuit Bench of Missouri, whom inclina-
tion and not necessity induced to take up
modeling as a profession, has executed a
superb gilded figure called “The Spirit of
Missouri,” her native state, and which is
intended to crown the dome of the Missouri
State building. Miss Wood is a conscien-
tious student and has been working in the

[Column 2]
studio of the celebrated sculptor Jonathan
Scott Hartley of New York city.
	Miss Enid Yandell, whose fame is wide
spread, has modeled several figures of
heroice size in staff, with which to orna-
ment the buildings on Art Hill.
	Her statues of “Victory” will be placed
upon the domes of the twin restaurant
pavilions at the ends of the Colonnade of
States. Each figure is endowed with the
attributes of “Victory,” embodied in the
form of a woman, slightly draped and with
the graceful head coroneted with a victor’s
wreath of bay leaves. In one shapely hand
she holds a laurel crown, while with the
other she raises a bugle to her lips blowing
the blast of conquest.
	Miss Yandell is also represented by a
heroic statue of the trapper and hunter,
Daniel Boone in full hunting regalia. This
will be erected in a commanding position on
Art Hill.
	Mrs. H. A. McNeil contributes the
charming figure of a child riding a fish
intended to form part of the decorative
scheme of the Cascades.
	On Miss Melva Beatrice Wilson of New
York was bestowed the largest contract for
the sculptural work of a woman. The span-
drels of the Palace of Machinery are of her
design, a nude male figure on each side of
the Keystone of the arch being representa-
tive of the Mechanical Arts. Each detail is
worked out with painstaking fidelity. Miss
Elsie Ward of Missouri sends a magnificent
statue of Gen. George Rogers Clark, one
of the pioneer heroes of the West, which
will have a place on Art Hill.
	Miss Edith B. Stevens of New York is
the author of two splendid semi-nude
recumbent figures, male and female, to be.
set upon the pediment of the principal en-
trance to the palace of Liberal Arts.
	A fitting tribute to the diplomatic tact of
James Monroe, the special envoy to France
under President Jefferson, and who assisted
in the negotiations for the transfer of the
Louisiana Territory to the United States is
a statue in staff modeled by Miss Julia
Bracken of Chicago.
	To Miss Evelyn B. Longmans of New
York belongs the honor of executing the
magnificent sculpture of “Victory” which
will surmount the dome of the Palace of
Varied Industries.
	The work of those talented young
women will no doubt prove an object lesson
to women who visit the Fair, demonstrating
that genius,industry and perseverance win in
the long run, and that women with artistic
proclivities have been afforded an opportu-
nity of showing what they can do.
	COUNTESS DE MONTAIGU.


SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF SISTER MARY E.
		KNIGHT BASSETT.
	It has often been said that the lives of the
Saints are full of romance; that they read
as fiction, and not as real life. So it is
with that of the subject of this sketch,
whose history is woven in with the early
history of the Church, in the days of un-
bounded faith in, love for and devotion
to the great Prophet of the nineteenth cen-
tury.
	Sister Bassett’s advent into this world
occurred on June 16, 1836, at Gallatin,
Clay county, Missouri. Long since the
story has been told of the persecutions the
Missouri Saints endured. How they were
pillaged, driven and murdered. Homes and


[Column 1]
lands, the result of all their toil and labor,
they were forced to abandon. Some of
them walked barefoot over the dry stubble,
leaving bloody footprints at every step.
Oh, the pain, the suffering of those days!
Delicate women, small children, trudging
along beside their little possessions, leaving
mobs and forsaken homes behind. Peace
had only been transitory, the threats of vio-
lence numerous and frequent.
Uncertainty stretched before them, yet
they had an abiding faith that elsewhere
they would find a place of rest, where, un-
molested by those of other creeds, they
could worship God in their own way. Thus
early in her life--being only four years of
age—she was, with her parents and other
Saints, expelled from Missouri. 
Nauvoo the beautiful, situated on a bend
of the Mississippi river, became her home
for a time. From there her parents moved
to La Harpe, an adjoining town, where
they remained until the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum.
This tragic event brought overwhelming
sorrow to the Saints. Darkness reigned
over Nauvoo. Fearful forebodings, grief
and lamentations were borne on the air.
Hunted and driven, mob violence on every
hand, many Saints fled into Nauvoo, the
family of Brother Knight being among the
number; here they remained until the exo-
dus of the Saints in 1846.
Well she remembers the miracle of the
quails, that were sent to the starving “poor
camp” on the banks of the Mississippi
river, opposite Nauvoo. Destitute, sick
and a hungered, prey to all the ills of the
poor, scarcely able to raise a hand to re-
lieve their dire necessities; want stamped
on each shrunken, pinched face, there
they were, those known as the “poor
camp.” The Mississippi rolling by was un-
mindful of their sufferings. The cold stars
in a winter sky, in pity gave their light,
but icy breezes almost froze these house-
less, homeless fugitives, made such by re-
ligious hate and intolerance, in the blaze
of the vaunted civilization of the nineteenth
century. But God was not unmindful of
them; their prayers reached beyond the
pale moon and glittering stars, even to
heaven’s throne. Those who were able
had gone in search of food, while the sick
lay all around. Suddenly a dark cloud
overshadowed the camp, but the stricken
ones did not wonder much—if they were
able to think at all—but just waited, not
knowing what was coming next, when, lo!
in untold numbers the quails flew down
among them; they had only to put out
their hands, take and eat. Once again
they would behold the miracle-food sent
from heaven and the salvation of God.
Joseph Knight, Sister Bassett’s father,
her grandfather, Joseph Knight, Sen., and
his brother, Newel Knight, were close
friends of the Prophet, even before the or-
ganization of the Church. At her parents’
home in Missouri the Prophet was a fre-
quent and welcome visitor. By her parents
she has been told, also by her older sister,
Mrs. M. A. Mills, now living, that the
Prophet often took her in his lap and fondly
caressed her. She remembers that in
Nauvoo she heard him preach in the bow-
ery, just west of the temple. But that
stately edifice is no more; not one stone
left upon another; nothing left to designate
where it once stood. After the expulsion
of the Saints, the spirit of destruction, not
yet satiated, was wreaked on the senseless
stone and wood. It was set on fire. For

[Column 2]
a time the Mississippi ran as blood, while its
grim banks and near surroundings were
dyed with the crimson hue. The sky was
ablaze, clouds banked each other in blood,
then the light went out, and the city was
desolate The temple its glory, the Saints
its strength and pride, all had vanished.
The ever thrilling story lives in history of
how the pioneers reached this land, each
succeding year saw another band wend its
way across the trackless plains, until all
were gathered who chose to come. Brother
Knight with his family reached Salt Lake
City in 1850. In common with others,
they laid loved ones to rest on the way,
for the old Mormon trail is marked by
graves from Salt Lake to the Missouri
river.

There they rest and mark the way,
Where the pilgrims trod;
’Till the resurrection day, 
There beneath the sod.
Ev'ning breezes wail around,
Coyotes screech in vain.
Nought disturbs their sleep so sound,
Nought wakes them again.

March 5, 1853, Sister Bassett entered into
the holy order of marriage, becoming the
wife of Charles H. Bassett, and is the
mother of nine children, six of whom are
still living. With her hnsband she has
aided in building this great mountain
commonwealth, where the children of the
Saints enjoy plenty and prosperity.
Losses, trials and perplexities fall to the
lot of all. She has shared in these, too,
but they have been sanctified to her, and
today she is beloved among women. Long,
too, she has labored among the poor and
distressed, been an angel of mercy to those
in need. Very early she identified herself
with the Relief Society, and was called to
preside over the Second ward in 1871,
which position she still holds. Loved by
her sisters, she is respected by all those
with whom she is associated, while chil-
dren and grandchildren rise up and call
blessed. Faithful and true, enduring all
things for the Gospel’s sake, how glorious
shall they be who so continue unto the
end. When Christ shall make up his jew-
els, resplendent shall they shine forever.

Who bear the cross shall wear the crown,
’Twas ever thus decreed;
And through the golden gates at last,
Pass on, from trials freed.

’Tis worth all suff’ring, all distress,
The joys of heaven to share;
To dwell with God in realms of bliss—
The sanctified are there.

Then as the sun the saints appear,
By blood they’re purified;
And through eternity they’ll praise
The Lamb, who for them died.

LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Martha Jones Meacham, one of the earli-
est and most respected citizens of the Park Valley
ward, died on July 14, 1903 She was the president
of the first Relief Society organized in Park Val-
ley, in which she served faithfully for nineteen
years. She was the wife of E. D. Meacham, and
the mother of a large family, six of whom are still
living. The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful.	Much praise was given her by her
bishop and the speakers concerning her worthy
life and her amiable and loving disposition.
E. D. C.
	It is our sad duty to record the death of our be-
loved and noble sister, Sarah I. Raleigh, daughter
of Philip and Clarissa Pugsley, of Salt Lake City,
and wife of James A. Raleigh. She passed away

[Column 2]
after a severe illness, on December 6, 1903. She
leaves to mourn her loss a husband and three
daughters. She was a devoted wife and mother,
a true sister in the gospel, and a faithful member
of the Park Valley Relief Society, of which she
was secretary for ten years. We, the officers and
members of the Park Valley ward, deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and daughters in 
their loss, feeling also that they have been greatly
blessed by her wise and faithful example, Sister
Raleigh was president of the first Primary asso-
ciation of Rosette, a branch of the Park Valley
ward, for two years. She has also been president
of the Rosette Y. L. N. M, I. A. since it was first
organized in Rosette, and served up to the time of
her death. We feel our sister is not dead, but that
she sleeps, her spirit having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of the resur-
rection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
a title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord in glory when he shall come
in this creation to take the reins of government.
								E. D. C.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Park Valley Relief Society, that we mourn the
loss of our late president and secretary, but that
we appreciate the goodness of their lives, and the
worthy example they have set us to follow;
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved, That a copy of these res-
olutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety, and also published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				President S. J. CAMPBELL,
							Park Valley, Utah.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE TO MARY A. H. BURNHAM.

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are longing for home and
	its sweet repose;
So, He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved one’s sleep,”

	One cannot help a feeling of solemnity in part-
ing with old and dear friends, however confident
one may be that all is well with the loved one who
has gone on before.
	The departed sister whose demise we now re-
cord with loving words, was a true and faithful
friend to those around her; she loved her neigh-
bors and ministered generously of what she pos-
sessed; in times of scarcity, when there was little
to share with others, she gave to those who had
less even than the small portion she had for her
own family, and trusted in the Lord for more. Her
words, too, were like balm to the distressed and
sorrowing.
	In the troublous times of Nauvoo, when thou-
sands mourned perhaps as they have never
mourned since, the cruel martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, Sister Burnham was one
who spoke comforting words to the bereaved,
whose faith never failed, though her husband was
at that time away upon a mission, and she stood
alone, yet she had courage to face privation, scar-
city of food, and to rely upon One above for
strength and consolation, and to pour out words of
comfort to those around her. Those were the days
of dark trials, and many fell away. The spirit of
apostacy was rife, yet she held to the iron rod and
braved the storms of ridicule and persecution that
carried many down to darkness and unbelief.
Brave heroines of those days of hardship and sore
temptation, they are nearly all gone.

“They are gathering homeward from every land,
			One by one;
As their weary feet touch the shining strand.
			One by one,
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white robes they meet on the mead
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
			One by one.”
	Sister Burnham had been ailing for some time,
but when the final hour came she passed away
peacefully as though falling asleep. She was
staying with her daughter. Sister Almyra Young
Russell. Her death occurred in this city Novem-
ber 10, 1903. She was born March 14, 1816, at
Waitsfield, Vermont. The deceased was the daugh-
ter of Allen Huntley and Sally Hitchcock, both
illustrious names in the annals of New England


history; she was left an orphan when very young,
and reared by her grandparents. When sixteen
years old she married James Louis Burnham, and
went west in 1837. In 1842 Brother and Sister
Burnham were converted to the Gospel and em-
braced the same, and went up to Nauvoo, Ill., in
1843. She was left a widow with three sons in
1845, just previous to the birth of her daughter.
Sister Mary A. Freeze. She afterwards married
President Joseph Young in the Nauvoo temple; by
this marriage she had two daughters. She was
with the Saints in the exodus from Nauvoo, en-
during all the privations of that eventful period,
prefering exile with the Church to the independ-
ence offered her by her own people if she would
return to the eastern states. She went south to
Payson at the time of the move south in 1858, and
remained there for some time, afterward moving
to Richmond, Cache county, and in 1863 returned
to Salt Lake City, which has been her permanent
home ever since. Her posterity number 197. She
had seven children, 14 grandchildren, 114 great-
grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren.
Her life was a most exemplary one, full of zeal
and religious devotion, never murmuring, however
difficult and trying her circumstances. She was
unflinching in her integrity to the Gospel, and al-
ways bore testimony to the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the prophet of the Latter-day dis-
pensation. Sister Burnham knew the Prophet
personally, and testified on all occasions of his
grand and noble character. She was present at
the meeting in the grove in Nauvoo, when the
mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham Young, when
the people cried “It is Joseph come back again—
he is resurrected.” There are few now living to
testify of having witnessed these things; but those
who were present on that memorable occasion can
never forget its thrilling effect upon that enthusi-
astic assembly.
The funeral of this excellent woman was held
in the Eleventh ward meeting house, and many
testified of her good works. Bishop R. Morris
presided. Beautiful floral tributes from loving
relatives and friends were laid upon the white
casket, and music such as the angels might listen
to was rendered. Her remains are laid to rest
upon the hill side, to await the morning of the
first resurrection.		 E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
	EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Emery
Stake was held at Ferron Nov. 27, 1903,
President Mary A. Sorenson presiding. The
president reported the work of the Stake
and congratulated the sisters on the good
work they had done, expressed regret at
the absence of the late president, Sister
Annie U. Larsen, who was ill.
	Sister Maria Allen, of Castledale, spoke
on the subject "Woman,” her effort was a
grand one. Eight of the wards in the Stake
were represented and all reported in good
condition. Sister Josie E. Childs touching-
ly referred to the illness of ex-President
Larsen and spoke highly of the lecture.
	Sister R. O. Bird of Springville made
a telling speech to mothers. Brother Seth
Allen of Castle Dale referred to the noble
work of the Relief Society.
	In the afternoon Sister Maria Guymon
spoke of duties in the society and on saving
grain. Sister Mary Jenson of Ferron re-
cited "The Relief Society.” Bishop Nel-
son of Ferron talked to the parents; said he
was pleased with the Relief Society. Song
by Sisters J. R. Cox and Hattie Reid of
Orangeville. Reading by Mrs. Annie Ras-
mussen of Molen. Patriarch Frederick
Olsen appreciated the Relief Society; had
known of its benefits for thirty years.
Mandolin selection by Sister Jennie Behe-
min of Clawson. Stake Counselor Mary
J. King spoke of the Sunnyside Society,
urged the sisters to join the society and
help the work along. President Mary A.
Sorensen thanked those who had contribu-
ted to the success of the conferences.
	After the adjournment a social was given

[Column 2]
in honor of Sister Annie U. Larson and
Josie E. Childs, the retiring stake officers.
President Sorensen in behalf of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, presented Sister
Larsen with an elegant rocker and felt slip-
pers and Sister Childs a workstand and
Ladies Companion. A present of money has
been sent to Sister Ann Pulsipher, the other
retiring counselor who resides now in Old
Mexico, and a Book ot Mormon with in-
scription from Emery Stake Relief Society,
to Sister S. J. Shipp, in Idaho, the former
secretary. Great credit is due the sisters of
Ferrou for the sumptuous repast and the
welcome extended to all. Toasts and senti-
ments were given and a pleasant time was
enjoyed.
	M. A. SORENSEN.
                           _______

	WASATCH.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
a conference at the Stake Tabernacle Au-
gust 23, 1903. President Annie R. Duke
presiding. Official visitors from Salt Lake
City present: Sarah Jane Cannon, member
of the General Board, and Katie B. Hooker,
missionary. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.
with usual exercises, prayer by Sister Ann
Murdock. President Duke welcomed the
Saints one and all in a most genial manner.
Phoebe H. Bathers reported Danish soci-
ety, spoke upon love and charity. Charles-
ton reported by Mary Broadbent; society in
good condition.
	Sister Hattie B. Hooker praised the neat-
ness of the hall, gave some good points
in the mother’s work, said it was intended
to be a help to the young mothers in rear-
ing their children, also to elevate and edu-
cate the sisters thought parents should see
that the home is furnished with proper
amusement for children.
	Recitation—Sophia Lee.
	Sister S. J. Cannon, wife of the late
President George Q. Cannon, spoke of the
great benefits derived from the talks of ex-
perienced mothers who were united with
their husbands in training children; these
talks or lectures were grand opportunities
for the young people. The Saints should
know why the Prophet Joseph Smith or-
ganized this society. It is not only to aid
the needy and care for the sick, but to save
souls; teach your sons and daughters to be
virtuous, Sister Cannon urged the sisters
to try and create a fund of their own for
expenses in the ward.
	President Wm. H. Smart made a telling
address, in which he said if the society—
literary, spiritual and intellectual—work
for the mothers to prepare them for wife-
hood and house purposes, helping the
young women to be active instead of the
older sisters doing it all, it would make the
society successful; if you need teaching, go
to your leaders, who have the spirit of their
calling. President Smart said many good
things.
	Sister Duke felt thankful for the visitors
and the presence of the brethren.
	Adjourned until 2 pm. with singing;
prayer by Sarah Melissa Murdock.
	Afternoon session opened with usual ex-
ercises; prayer by Patriarch W. C. Mur-
dock. Sisters reported as follows: Heber
Second ward, Sarah Carlisle; Heber Third
ward, Johanna Jensen; Heber First ward,
Margaret Murdock—all in good condition,
taking care of the sick and needy, and at-
tending to other duties.
	Bishop Wm. Daybell and Bishop J. A.


[Column 3]
Boshard urged parents to teach their chil-
dren right and keep them home at night.
Center Ward Society reported by Rebecca,
Anderson, Rachel Lee, Elkhorn Dairy.
Bishop Jacob Probst of Midway praised the
sisters, felt the sisters had more of the
Spirit of God in their meetings than the
brethren, he thought we should study the
dispositions of our children when training
them. Bishop Robert Duke thought the
Relief Society one of the greatest aids in
the Church.
	Sister Cynthia Wootten spoke well of the
Midway Relief Society. Bishop Frederick
Crook of Midway, Bishop P. H. M’Guire
both alluded to the strength the Relief
Society gave to the ward.
	Elder Abram Hatch made some pertinent
remarks as to the perfect organization of
the Church. Sister Louisa Alexander and
Eliza Boshard spoke words of encourage-
ment to all. Elder James C. Jenson, of the
Stake Presidency told the mothers to be
careful in their conversation, especially
before children. The General and Stake
officers were sustained unanimously. Pres-
dent Duke made suitable closing remarks.
The visiting sisters had been obliged to
return home on acocunt of sickness. Ben-
ediction by Patriarch John Duke.
	SARAH R. DUKE, Secretary.
                         _________      
	ALBERTA, CANADA.

	The Relief Society conference of the Al-
berta Stake convened at the Assembly Hall,
in Cardston, August 24, 1903, President L.
Woolf presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, President Woolf congratulated the
congregation upon the favorable circum-
stances in which they were placed as a
community, the peaceful influence they en-
joyed and how the Lord had answered
their prayers.
	Sister Sarah B. Davies reported the Re-
lief Society of Cardston, said the sisters-
had 200 bushels of grain stored. Counselor
Jane Hinman gave an interesting account
of the visits to the several branches of the
Stake; they had excellent meetings and en-
joyed a good spirit.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, one of the
General Presidents of the Relief Society,
said she felt a calm, peaceful, and contented
spirit in their midst, knew the sisters were
living near the Lord and doing their duty,
thought the Spirit of God was never felt
to a greater extent than in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little, missionary, re-
ferred to the words of our Lord when the
people asked Him how they were to know
the Gospel was true. He answered by
their work. "Ye cannot gather grapes of
thorns or figs from thistles.” Though our
prayers are not answered directly, the re-
sult is good; she spoke of having visited
European countries; she eulogized the sis-
ters for living their religion, said she could
give a good report of them when she re-
turned to Utah.
	Choir sang, "Do what is right.”
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman, Sisters Eliza-
beth Hammer, Rose Woolf, Lydia Brown,
May Lula Ibez, Elnora Wight, Lula An-
derson, Hannan Anderson, Emily Norton,
Rhoda May and Elizabeth Webb each bore
testimony and said some very good things.
Elder E. J. Wood gave some of his experi-
ences on the Samoan islands.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing; benediction by Rachel Archibald.
	Afternoon session, opened with singing,


[Column 1]
prayer and singing. Counselor Ida S.
Dusenberry was the first speaker. She was
not feeling well and only occupied a few
minutes, thought it was by being good to
others that we had the most joy; those who
remain at home and do not reach out a
helping hand become narrow-minded; paid
a high tribute to Sister Zina Y. Card,
thought we should all have greater charity
for the faults of our friends and become
broader-minded; read a letter from Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and said she sent
greetings to the sisters, she prayed for
them and desired their prayers for her.
Sister R. E. Little thought she realized
to some extent the great work the Saints
had done there and the sacrifices they had
made in the last sixteen years in settling
that land, felt they were nobler because of
their experiences, spoke upon philanthropy
and charity, and the Savior’s example; she
had found some of her girlhood friends since
being there, felt extremely happy in their
midst.
Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.’’
Sister Zina Y. Card spoke elegantly upon
gratitude and kindly demonstrations and
mentioned that a wave of immorality
seemed to be going over the land; referred
to the Crittenden home for fallen women,
but thought that was only half the battle,
no woman ever fell alone—what about the
men?—they should not go free; felt how
happy and blessed women were who had
good, true husbands. Her remarks upon
unity were excellent.
President Mary L. Woolf rejoiced in the
good instructions given during the confer-
ence, spoke of the great work President C.
O. Card had done in organizing that land,
she had realized it in visiting the people in
the stake and noting the progress made by
them, and she felt his work would be re-
corded in heaven.
President C. O. Card expressed himself
as confident of the support of the brethren
and sisters in the labor he had performed,
the Lord had opened up the way for the
people to grow and expand, let them con-
tinue in good works.
Patriarch John A. Woolf addressed the
sisters on the subject of raising children.
President H. S. Allen thought the Latter-
day Saint women were the bravest women
in the world, spoke of the purity that ex-
isted among their young people in Canada,
gave good counsel and encouraged the sis-
ters to continue in good works. Confer-
ence adjourned. Benediction by Elder J. D.
Wood.
                                         M. L. WOOLF. 
                        _______

                     BOX ELDER.

The Relief Society conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened Tuesday, December
8, 1993, President Susannah P. Booth pre-
siding. President Jane S. Richards, of
Weber Stake, and Sister Tribe, of Ogden,
were on the stand. Conference opened with
the usual exercises. President Booth re-
ferred to the prayer offered at the opening
of the meeting by Brother Kelly, thought

[Column 2]
it should inspire the audience to do better;
spoke upon punctuality, hoped the Lord
would bless them during conference.
Presidents Hannah Hooper, North ward;
Lydia E. Watkins, Beaver; Elizabeth
Loveland, Deweyville, each gave a good
report, and in the last ward they had been
saving Sunday eggs, which in two months
amounted to $30.
President Jane S. Richards addressed the
sisters, spoke of the last dispensation, was
glad to live in the days of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, mentioned some of the things
she had heard him say previous to his
death, alluded to her experiences the first
years in the valley, thought we should be
kind to one another and try to attend to our
duties.
Sister Tribe, of Ogden, was heart and
soul in the Latter-day work, felt we should
attend to the sick and needy, and live our
religion; said many good things.
Presidents Christine Jenson, Mantua; Sa-
rah Fridal, Elwood; Mary E. Wood, Wil-
lard, spoke well of the work in the respec-
tive wards.
President S. P. Booth made a few appro-
priate remarks, and after singing and bene-
diction by Counselor Emilia D. Madsen,
conference adjourned to 2 p.m.
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer by Counselor Louisa E. Peters, sing-
ing, roll call, minutes.
Sisters Mary Wright and Mary Rees bore
their testimony, and President Mary Sal-
mon, of Honeyville, reported the Society
there as doing well.
Counselors Emilia D. Madsen and Sister
Zella Rees spoke upon Gospel subjects, also
bore faithful testimonies.
A duet, “Don’t forget the old folks,’’
was rendered by Emma Vance and Emma
Lee. Sister Mary Harding, of Willard, oc-
cupied a few moments in speaking of en-
joyments that were expensive, and how
many blessings we missed that would cost
nothing
President Jane S. Richards, in her re-
marks, said she missed some of the faces she
had seen there formerly, but they had
passed away; felt it would be a gratification
to be worthy to meet them; gave some in-
structions from President B. W. Smith,
which were good and timely; thought we
lived in a day and age when there was an
opportunity of doing much good, prayed we
might have wisdom to treat our children
right.
Sister Tribe felt it would not be long be-
fore there would be no one left who had
seen the Prophet Joseph.
Sister Celestine F. Freeman was set apart
as corresponding secretary for the stake.
Counselor Lucien Snow spoke against
fault-finding and picking flaws in others;
thought we should examine ourselves; also
touched upon proper amusements.
President Charles Kelly expressed his in-
terest in the Relief Society work, his mind
had reverted back to the time when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society, and it
had always stood for the betterment of
mankind.
President Booth expressed her pleasure

[Column 3]
and satisfaction at the conference, and after
singing the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Lucien Snow, and conference ad-
journed for six months.
ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
Asst. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column one]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. 	TRY US

[column two]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
				JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
				GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street. 

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


THE GRACIOUS WOMAN.
	“Gracious—courteous; friendly; kind;
attractive; agreeable; graceful; disposed to
show good-will; beneficent; full of grace or
favor.” The dictionary certainly appears
to cover a goodly number of the virtues as
well as the graces.	Perhaps that is why
the patronizing woman, who has none of
the Christian virtues in her. makes such a
bad imitation of being gracious. Yet when
a gracious woman is met, it becomes evident
why others wish to imitate her, for her
charm is wide and abiding.
	Graciousness, in fact, is so enviable a
possession that one wonders why more
women do not try for it. There are plenty
of clever women whose lack of it is de-
pressing and distressing. There are plenty
of average women who could make them-
selves delightful by its aid. It is most
needed, and most missed, in the daily little
matters of social life. But a gracious
woman can be gracious in a mining camp,
or a club convention, or a business office,
and gain by it everywhere. Lack of
graciousness in speech or manner is a dis-
advantage and drawback to any woman,
rich or poor, young or old, pretty or home-
ly, worker or idler. Yet what a plentiful
lack of it there is, from the stiff hostess in
the millionaire’s drawing-room to the ill-
mannered saleswoman behind the counter!
	For it is most a matter of condescension or
patronage. A cook can be as ungracious
as a queen. A truly gracious manner puts
the humblest on its own level, and is at
ease with the greatest. It is simple, un-
affected, sincere, responsive. The classic
epitaph in a New England graveyard, “She
was so pleasant,” sums it all up. Surely not a
hard thing to reach, in these days of brilliant
women.                     HARPER'S BAZAR.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 32
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1904
No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Sketch of the Life of...................................
	........................Mrs. Elizabeth M. Hart 65
Mother's Work................................   66 and 71
First Woman Physician in Holland..............
	...............................Martina G. Kramers 70
Relief Society Nurse Class Emma A. Empey 71
The Suez Canal........................Maria Francis 68
EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference.... 68
	Editorial Notes ...................................... 68
	D. R. State Society................................. 68
	Executive Session N. [--]W., Indianapolis
	....................................................Indiana 68
	Report of the National Woman’s Relief
	................................................... Society 99
POETRY—On the Death of General George
	.............................................Washington 65


ON THE DEATH OF GENERAL GEORGE
WASHINGTON.

BY A YOUNG LADY.

What means the solemn dirge that strikes my ear?
What means those mournful sounds—why shines
	the tear?
Why toll the bells the awful knell of fate?
Ah! why those sights that do my fancy sate?

Where’er I turn the general gloom appears,
Those mourning badges fill my soul with fears;
Hark! yonder rueful noise! ’tis done!
The silent tomb invades our Washington!

Must virtues exalted, yield their breath?
Must bright perfection find relief in death?
Must mortal greatness fall? A glorius name!
What then is riches, honor and true fame?

The august chief, the father and the friend,
The generous patriot-let the muse commend;
Columbia’s glory, and Mount Vernon’s pride.
There lies enshrined with numbers at his side!

There let the sigh respondent from the breast,
Heave in rich numbers! let the glowing zest;
Of tears refulgent beam with grateful love;
And the sable mourning our affliction prove.

Weep! kindred mortals—weep! no more you’ll find,
A man so just, so pure, so firm in mind;
Rejoicing angels, hail the he venly sage!
Celestial spirits greet the wonder of the Age!
	January, 1800.                       Ulster Co. Gazette.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF MRS. ELIZABETH
M. HART.

Editor Exponent.
	The following brief sketch of the life of
Mrs. Elizabeth M. Hart was written by
herself during the first week in January,
1904, and read by her in the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association in Bloom-
ington on Sunday evening, Jan. 10th. 1904,
five days previous to the deplorable acci-
dent which caused her death.
	She was a domestic economist in the ful-
lest sense of the word; a wise counselor, a
well read and thoughtful student; a ready
and interesting public speaker and a sin-
cere and devout member of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and made loving friends
wherever she was known.
	It is the consensus of the feelings of the
Stake Presidency and the auxiliary organi-
zations of which deceased was an active
member for so many years that in her de-
parture they have lost one of the bright and
shining lights among the noble women who
labor among us so faithfully in building up

[Column 2]
the great work of the Lord in this Stake of
Zion.                                     COM.
February 10th, 1904.

	I was born on the 26th day of March in
the year 1843, in the town of Treforest, in
the county of Glamorgan, South Wales,
Great Britain. My father’s name was David
Thomas, my mother Martha Davis Thomas,
both of the same place. I am the second
daughter of a family of six girls. Our par-
ents were in comiortable circumstances, and
we grew up in an atmosphere of love and
tenderness. Our home was to me a perfect
paradise. Although my mother’s health
was delicate, she was able to direct home
affairs, but obliged to leave the arduous
labors to an attendant named “Kitty,” who
lived in the family seventeen years.
	My father did not believe in any of the
religions of the so-called Christian churches;
but he was a strong believer and advocate
of justice, truth and equity. My mother
was a member of the Baptist Church, but
was not satisfied with its organizations and
doctrines, and was always searching for
more light, and something more tangible
that she could lay hold on with full hope
and assurance. She was fervent in spirit,
conscientious in her convictions, and faith-
ful in performing her duties in life as she
understood them.
	From my earliest recollection I was
taught to observe the Sabbath day to keep
it holy; to refrain from loud laughter and
from indulging in mirth of whatever nature.
I was fairly well acquainted with the
common branches of education, including
domestic economy, before I reached my
thirteenth year.
	In the year 1855 the family moved to
Cardiff, a large sea-port town, in South
Wales, where my father was offered a more
remunerative position as a pattern maker, in
a large steel rail establishment. We were
then about twelve miles from the home of
my maternal grandmother, Mrs. Davis. I
can now picture in my mind the thatch
roofed farm house, with my dear old grand-
mother bustling around, going five miles to
meeting and willing to indulge me in every
way.
	In 1856 we were called to mourn the loss
of our baby sister, from cholera infantum.
My mother’s health was quite frail at this
time, and required the tenderest care and
attention from my sister and myself, and
although our change of residence did not
prove as successful in a pecuniary sense as
we expected, my mother felt confident that
the Lord was mindful of her pleadings. It
so happened that a year had scarcely elap-
sed when the light of the Gospel was
brought to her, by a good old lady who
came to do our washing. My mother
accepted it without any question or hesita-
tion, and it seemed to inspire new life in
her, so much so, that within a month she
was baptized and confirmed a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	At my mother’s urgent request my eldest
sister and myself also, became members of
the Church. I yielded obedience to the

[Column 3]
Gospel from a desire to gratify my mother’s
wishes; for up to that time I had not given
much thought or reflection to matters of
religion, I was keenly sensitive and consci-
ous of right and wrong, but it seemed to
me sufficient, if a person lived up to the
golden rule, “do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	In 1856 my father was baptized also and
became a member of the Church. He met
with great opposition from his relatives and
former friends, and up to this day my sister
Mrs. Samuel H. Hill and myself are the
only representatives of my father’s house in
the Church.
	In March, 1857, we commenced our
travels to the land of Zion. We sailed on
the “George Washington” from Liverpool 
and landed in Boston on the 17th, of April,
having been three weeks on the ocean. We
encountered some very severe gales, but all
things considered we had a fair and pleas-
ant journey as intermediate passengers. I
shall however, never forget the disagreeable
sensation of sea-sickness experienced upon
the voyage.
	We arrived in Iowa City, which was then
the terminus of the railroad, a week later.
The Saints were going from that point by
teams and hand carts. Instead of continu- 
ing our journey as at first intended, much
to my mother’s disappointment, my father
decided to remain there another year, so
that we could go with more comfort and in-
dependence. We did not however realize
our expectations; reverses came upon us.
There was no work my father could engage
in. My father and mother were both taken
down with ague and fever and were unable
to help each other or themselves for nearly
a year. Expenses accumulated so that we
had to dispose of our chinaware, cutlery,
and many other articles that we had pro-
vided for our use and comfort. It was then
that life’s stern realities dawned upon me
as never before.
	It was about this time that Governor
Kirkwood of Iowa and his wife engaged
me as second girl at fair wages. Although
they were kind and considerate, I realized
my position keenly as a subordinate and
subject to their bidding, which at first, was
quite a trial to me.
	I had many experiences of this kind but
the thought that I was thus able to assist
my parents in the expenses of home, gave
me courage, and made me more brave than
if I were the only one benefited by my labor.
	Then came an agreeable change; my
father regained his health and took a con-
tract to build Governor Kirkwood a frame
house which, when completed, netted us
quite a sum and enabled us to meet our
financial obligations. It was then decided
that I go to school, leaving the girls at
home with mother, while I worked for my
board with a Mrs. Dunlap whose home was
a mile nearer the school.
	It was there I met Mr. George M. Keen,
a cousin of Mr. Dunlap, who had come on a
visit from St. Paul, Minn. He was a
scholar and by profession a journalist.
When he left for his home a month later,
it was with the promise that we open up a


[Column One]
friendly correspondence. This was in July, 
1860, and on the 21st, of April, 1861, we
were married. My mother was very much
opposed to our marriage because he was
not of our faith and she desired to take all
of her children to Utah. It was in the same
month and year the civil war began, and
when the call was made for seventy-five
thousand volunteers, Mr. Keen could not
resist that spirit of patriotism that fills the
heart of every native born American when
his country is in jeopardy. He joined the
Second Iowa Cavalry, and was engaged in
active service in many battles, but escaped
unhurt, to return home and resume the
avocations of life. Eleven months after his
return he contracted a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia and on the 6th, 
of September, 1865, he passed away.
	In the mean time, that is in the year
1862, during Mr. Keen’s service in the
Union army, I moved to Chicago with my
father and mother and spent part of the time
in Salem, Ohio, with Mr. Keen’s parents
who did all they could to make life pleasant.
	In 1868, I came with my parents to Salt
Lake City. We located in the 9th Ward,
where we were re-baptized and were re-
ceived as members of the Church. We sub-
sequently moved to the central part of the
city, where to meet the necessary expenses
we took in boarders. My father being un-
able to obtain employment as a machinist, 
became discouraged and had gone back to
Chicago, expecting my mother would re-
turn also, if left to depend upon her own
resources; but with the help of her girls and
the blessings of the Lord, we managed to
live and pay expenses. 
	House rents and provisions were then so
high that we could not afford to hire any-
thing done, and to keep the class of board-
ers we had, required unceasing labor; in
fact it was what my be called a slave’s life.
Notwithstanding our board rates were two
dollars per day, we could only pay the
rent and keep the table supplied. 
	Our relatives in Provo were constantly
urging us to go there and make our home
and upon my mother receiving a check
from my father for a liberal sum, my
mother decided to move to Provo, and
within a month we had bought a lot there
with one large room upon it, making it our
home, with an addition of a shed at the
back. We stored our furniture away until
we could make further building improve-
ments. 
	I am thankful that I had such a faithful
mother, for it was through her faith and
untiring efforts and loyalty to her religion, 
that I am indebted for being brought to
these mountains and for a name and stand-
ing in the Church of Jesus Christ in these
last days.
	We soon became identified with one of
the ward organizations and I was given a 
class in the Sunday School. It was there
in Provo I became acquainted with Sister
Emily Hart, who was a warm friend of my
dear mother. I was introduced by her to
Elder James H. Hart, to whom I was mar-
ried in 1873, with her full, and free consent
and approval, also that of my dear mother,
who believed in, and fully endorsed the
principle of plural marriage.
	In 1874 I moved to Bloomington, Bear
Lake County, Idaho, with my husband. I
was soon identified with the Bloomington
Sunday School and with the ward Primary
Association of which I was chosen and ap-
pointed President in the year 1879. I was
also a member of the Young Ladies’ Mutual

[Column Two]
Improvement Association at the same time, 
and was appointed Stake Secretary of that
organization the same year. I took great
pleasure and satisfaction in traveling with
the President, Mrs Nancy E. Pugmire and
her counselors in all parts of the Bear Lake
Stake of Zion and was honorably released
in September, 1903, covering a period of
twenty-four years.
	In the year 1884 I was chosen and set
apart as a counselor in the Stake Presidency 
of the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, 
a position I still hold, being associated with
sister Julia Lindsay as her first counselor
and ably assisted by Mary J. Bagley as sec-
ond counselor.
	In conclusion I can say that in the labor
herein mentioned in which we have traveled
many thousands of miles, not in Bear Lake
County only, but in Rich County, Utah,
and in Star Valley, Uinta County, Wyom-
ing, formerly belonging to this Stake organ-
ization during all seasons of the year, and
sometimes in the most inclement weather,
that in these labors and associations among
the daughters of Zion and the noble moth-
ers in Israel, they have afforded the great-
est happiness that I have experiened during
my life. 
			ELIZABETH M. HART.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS WORK.
TAYLOR STAKE.

I.—Woman, her Sphere and Mission.

	She openeth her mouth with wisdom and
in her tongue is the law of kindness. Wo-
man that feareth the Lord shall be blessed.
Prov. 31. God’s commandment to Adam
and Eve (Gen. 1:28 Gen. 3;16).

II.—Children are a gift from God. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 132.

	Care of parents in setting proper ex-
amples before their children. Instiling
faith in the hearts of their children.

III.—Virtue and Moral purity.

	A child most be taught purity from its
infancy. Pure thoughts make a happy
mind. Let your thoughts be chaste and
pure. Evil thoughts make vice and crime;
honest thoughts and noble deeds build a
character sublime.

IV.—Scolding and Threatening.

	Scolding and threatening are real sins,
govern by love and kindness. “Kind words
are bright flowers of earth’s existence.”

V.—Finding fault with our children.

	It is at times necessary to censure and
punish, but very much more may be done
by encouraging children when they do well.
Nothing can more discourage a child than
incessant fault finding on the part of its
parents.

VI.—Use of Drugs and Patent Medicine.

	Discourage the use of any deadening med-
icine to be given to our children. Encourage
faith in God and the ordinances of the
Gospel. Doc. and Cov. sec. 42.

VII.—Artificial feeding of Infants how
	prepared.

VIII.—Diet and Dressing of Children.

	How often, we notice mothers who with

[Column 2]
great earnestness study the cultivation and
treatment of flowers to make them healthy,
and beautiful, and neglect their children,
how to take proper care of those noble
spirits whom the Lord has entrusted to our
care that their little bodies may be healthy
and strong.

IX.—Moral Training of Children.

	It is a mistaken idea mothers that infants
are not capable of being trained in any
way until they are several months or a year
old.

X.—Care of Amusements for the Young.

	Evil of card playing amoung our people.
Juvenile Instructor Aug. and Sept. No’s by
Pres. Joseph F. Smith.

XI.—Order of Marriage.

	First step commence aright, may save
unhappiness. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132.

XII.—Object of Relief Society Work.

	Also the object of our Mothers Work.
Ref. the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first
Relief Society meeting.
			HANNAH M. RUSSELL,
			ROZILLA GRANT,
			ELIZABETH HARDY.

		PANGUITCH STAKE.

Lesson I.—Woman.

	‘Oh, woman, woman, know thyself,
	And know thy mission too.
	Thou comest from thy makers hands,
	A mighty work to do.”
						—Eliza R. Snow.

				Woman.
	A. What is she?
		1. Child of God.
		2. Companion of her husband.
	B. Her mission.
		1. Child. Duties of child to parents.
		2. Sister. Duties of a sister to house-
		hold and to mankind.
		3. Wife. “Nevertheless, neither is
		the man without the woman,
		neither the woman without the
		man in the Lord” (I Cor. 11: 11).
		4. Mother. Duty to become a
		mother. “Be fruitful, and multi-
		ply and replenish the earth”
		(Gen. 1: 28).
	C. Her Reward.
		1. Earthly possessions. Husband,
		children. Consciousness of hav-
		ing obeyed commandments of
		God.
		2. Heavenly possessions. Celestial
		inheritance.

Lesson II.—Motherhood.

“O wondrous power! how little understood;
Entrusted to the mother’s mind alone,
To fashion genius, form the mind for good.

	A. It is a wife’s duty to become a
	mother.
	B. Pre-natal influence.
		1. Habits of mother. Like begets
		like.
	C. Preparation for confinement.
		1. Diet.
		2. Clothing.


[Column 1]
Lesson III.—The Baby.
	“I love these little people, and it is not a
a slight thing when they, who are so fresh
from God love us."			Dickens.
	The Baby.
	A. Bath.
		I. Time to bathe. Regularity. Why
		not in health only but in sickness,
		also. Daily bath.
		2. How to bathe. First bath of oil.
		Following every bath with a
		massage of oil. Preparations for
		the bath. How to proceed.
	B. Clothing.
		I. Hygienic dress. How made.
		Loose, light, free from pins. Not
		too long. Why? Bring samples.
		Change of clothing. Material.
		Woolen. Cotton. Which? Why?
	C. Food.
		I. System in feeding. In food and
		drink. Either natural or artificial
		food.
Lesson IV.—Children and their Diseases.
	A. Colic.
		I. Symptoms.
		2. Treatment. Thoroughly warm.
		Apply hot flannels. Rub body
		with oil.
	B. Thrush. Tell cause and how cured.
	C. Diarrhoea.
		I. Cause.
		2. Treatment.
	D. Spasmodic croup.
		I. Cause. Exposure to damp and
		cold, excitement and indigestion.
		2. Cure. Apply warm flannel to
		throat. Give mustard bath or
		foot bath an emetic and a simple
		enema.
		3. How to prevent a return.
Lesson V. —Home.
	“Home’s not merely roof and room
	It needs something to endear it
	Home is where the heart can bloom,
	Where there’s some kind lip to cheer it.”
				Home.
	A. Cleanliness.
		I. Of house and yards. Sanitary and
		moral effects. Why.
		2. Of carpets, floors, walls, nooks
		and corners, bedding, clothing
		and food.
	B. Regularity.
		I. Work.
		2. Study.
		3. Devotional exercises.
		4. Shopping.
	C. Manners at home.
		I. Politeness. The golden rule is the
		embodiment of all true politeness.
		2. Personal habits. Cleanliness of
		person. “A clean mind can not
		dwell in an unclean body.”
Lesson VI.—Home (continued).
	A great many homes are like the frame of
a harp that stands without strings. In form
and outline they suggest music; but no
melody rises from the empty spaces; and
thus it happens that home is unattractive,
dreary and dull.

[Column 2]
A. Amusements.
	I. Books. A library is not a luxury
	but one of the necessaries of life.
	Books of information are the tools
	for life’s daily use. Books of in-
	spiration are the instruments of
	music for life’s loftiest and most
	sacred moments.
	2. Music. Music is not a mere orna-
	ment it is an educative power.
	How? What is its moral effect?
	How does it bring about har-
	mony?
	3. Games. Educational. Avoid
	games that border on familiarity.
	Give substance of Presidents
	Smith’s talk on card playing.
B. Ethics.
	1. Pleasant and attractive surround-
	ings. It is as much the duty of
	parents to beautify their home
	as it is to keep the moral atmos-
	phere of that home pure.
	2. Agreeable associates.
	3. Parents love for child. No person
	has the right to be the parent of
	a child who does not love him.
	4. Obligations of prrents and chil-
	dren are reciprocal. Why? A
	smile is the most useful thing in
	the world iu proportion to its cost.
			JANE LEFEVRE,
			MAMIE F. DODDS,
			KATE G. CLARK,
					Committee.

		BINGHAM STAKE.
	“The mother, in her office, holds the
key to the soul, and she it is who stamps,
the coin of character, and makes the being,
who would be a savage, but for her gentle
care, a Christian man.”
Lesson I.—History of the Creation.
			(Ref. Gen. 1st Chapter).
	“For right is right, since God is God;
and right, the day must win. The doubt
would be disloyalty. To Father would be
sin.”
Lesson II.—History of the Creation.
		(a) Marriage instituted. (b) Day of
	rest.		(Ref. Gen. 2nd Chapter).
	“O day to sweet religious thought,
	So wisely set apart.
	Back to the silent strength of life.
	Help Thou, my wavering heart.”
Lesson III.
			(Ref. Gen. 3rd Chapter).
		(a) Mans agency. (b) Temptation
	of man and his fall.
“Lost yesterday, somewhere between sunrise and
	sunset.
The golden hours, each set with sixty diamond
	minutes.
No reward is offered, for they are gone forever.”
Lesson IV.
			(Ref. Gen. 4th Chapter).
		(a) Sons and dughters born to Adam.
	(b) Offering of sacrifice. “Heaven is
	not reached by a single bound, but we
	build the ladder by which we rise,
	from the lowly earth to the vaulted
	skies, and we mount its summit, round
	by round.”

[Column 3]
Lesson V.
	(Ref. Gen. 22nd Chap, I Sam. 15th Chap.)
		(a) Obedience. (b) Abraham’s of-
	fering.
Lesson VI.
				(Ref. 40th Psalms).
		(a) Benefits of confidence in God.
	(b) Obedience, the best sacrifice.
Floral Apostles, that in dewy splendor,
Weep without woe, and blush without a crime
O may I treasure deep, your sacred teaching of
	love divine.
Lesson VII.—First Nephi. His Reign and
	Ministry.
(Ref. Book of Mormon, I Nephi I, 2, 3 Chap.)
“God’s plans, like lilies pure and white, unfold.
We must not tear the close shut leaves apart,
Time will reveal the calaxes of gold.”
Lesson VIII.—Results of Disobedience.
	(Ref. Mosiah 11th and 12th Chapters).
	We cannot plan and build for ourselves, 
if we do we will be like the Jews of Old, as
the Prophet says: “Have hewn out cisterns,
that will hold no water.” We must submit
to the ordinances of the House of the Lord.
Lesson IX.—Home.
	Study to meet all your requirements as a
wife in righteousness. Give personal ex-
perience as “The Mother of the Home.”
The mother and daughters [-]eed to realize
that woman’s life and liberty does not con-
sist in the multitude of avenues that lead
from home to the outside world; but in
the uumber of avenues from which she may
bring the best, from the outside world, into
the home.
Lesson X.—Duties of Parents to Children.
	Parents be just to your, children in the
least, as well as in the greatest thing. The
home without children is lonely, and want-
ing in the love element. Every child born
into this world is entitled to the best rear-
ing.
Lasson XI.—Amusements for the Home.
	The woman who takes into her heart, her
own children, may be a very ordinary 
woman, but the woman who takes into her
heart, the children of others, is one of God’s
Mothers.” It is natural that we should
love our children, but every child in the 
community is ours, in so far as our influence
makes him a better or worse citizen.
Lesson XII.—Review of the Year's Work.
				ELIZA MUIR ORAM,
				ELVIRA C. STEELE,
				ELIZABETH S. BRUNDT,
				JENSINE JOHANNESEN,
				ALICE BOOMER,
						Committee.
		TILLIE E. WRIGHT,
					Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET contributes to 
the December Cosmopolitan an interesting
article on “British Social Life.” She is
herself a prominent member of the old
English aristocracy, and her article on the
new fashionable London of to day is at
once a commentary on the tendency of the
times and a protest against some of its
harmful features.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1904


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Annual Conference of the
Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, Saturday, April
2, 1904, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. It is expected that each Stake
organization of the Relief Society will be
represented by the president or an author-
ized representative. All members of the
society are cordially invited to attend the
conference. Bishops and brethren interested
in the charitable work of the sisters will
be most welcome, also officers and mem-
bers of Y. L. N. M. I. A., and Primary
Associations.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
						President.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
		IDA S. DUSSENBERRY,
						Counselors.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are several Stake orgonizations of
the Relief Society that have not yet sent in
their annual reports for the year 1903.
Please take notice, as the time is near at
hand for the general report to be made to
the Conference, Please address Mrs. E. B.
Wells. General Secretary, Templeton Build-
ing, Salt Lake City.
	The National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion, which met recently in Washington,
D C., elected Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president,
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, having refused
to be a candidate for re-election. The Inter-
national Woman’s Suffrage Conference will
be held in Berlin, probably June 20 and
21. Each of the ten countries affiliated will
be entitled to six delegates and six alter-
nates.


D. R. STATE SOCIETY
	The daughters of the Revolution held the
regular monthly meeting Tuesday, Feb. 16,
1904, at the home of Mrs. Clarissa S. Wil-
liams. The handsome parlors were deco-
rated with the stars and stripes and other
effective emblems, pictures, flowers, etc.
The Regent Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears pre-
siding. There was a very good number of
members present and after miscellaneous
business had been attended to the name of
Mrs. Israel Evans of Lehi was proposed for
membership and she was admitted with a
hearty welcome as well as by unanimous
vote.


The paper of the day was given by Mrs.
Carol Y. Cannon, subject Mrs. John Jay.
The paper was exceptionally interesting,
well written and read in a clear musical
voice and delightfully gracious manner.
The secretary Mrs. Lucy W. Smith read
from a very old paper published soon after
the death ol General Washington, an ac-
count of the funeral exercises. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a Poem in memory of General
Washington contained in the paper from
which the secretary read; the verses were
written by a young lady and may be
found on another page of this issue of the
paper.
	Mrs. Wells mentioned that the day pre-
vious had been Susan B. Anthony’s Birth-
day Anniversary and felt we should all
pay a tribute to her as she was most cer-
tainly a patriot loved her country and had
done much for the women of the United
States and the world at large.
	Many tender words of love and esteem
were expressed by the ladies and all unitedly
joined in congratulations to the honored
woman who has sacrificed so much and lab-
ored so faithfully for the enfranchisement
of the women of her country.
	Mrs. Beatie spoke of the visit of herself
and Mrs. Wells to the home of Miss Voss
in Indianapolis during their recent visit in
that city. Mrs. Beatie gave a graphic des-
cription of the elegant and luxurious resi-
dence of Miss Voss with whom the two
ladies dined and told of the many unique
hangings, statues, pictures and bric-a-brac
the lady had collected in her travels abroad.
	The meeting adjourned to meet on Wash-
ington’s birthday Feb. 22nd, at the EX-
PONENT OFFICE to commemorate the anni-
versary of the great hero, patriot, states-
man and President, Father of his Country.
Dainty refreshments were served by the
young ladies of the household and, with
each plate a toy hatchet marked Feb. 1904
	The afternoon was delightful in every
way, there was some choice music and
the usual pleasant conversation.


[Column 1]
EXECUTIVE SESSION N. C. W., INDIANAP-
			OLIS, INDIANA.

	The executive session of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
was held in Indianapolis, in February of
this year, commencing Monday, Eebruary
1, 1904.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of San Francisco,
the National President, presiding. Mrs.
Swift is very original; there is nothing for-
mal or stilted in her manner, she is easy
and gracious on the platform, and affable
and kind to all alike. The first afternoon,
as only a few delegates had yet arrived in
the city, was given over to a sort of “love
feast,” and almost every one present was
invited to speak and expressed an opinion
in regard to the Council, its present status,
and future possibilities, if the high ideals
of its founders were fostered and practically
developed.
	The four ladies from Utah gave free ex-
pression to the opinions they cherished on
the subject in question. The meeting was
held in the “Propylæum,” a handsome and
spacious building, erected and owned by
the club women of that city.
	In the evening a preliminary business
meeting was held in one of the elegant
parlors of the hotel Claypool, the headquar-
ters of the delegates in attendance at the

[Column 2]
Council. At this meeting propositions
were made and some plans formulated to
be submitted to the regular business sessions
during the week. One of the most inter-
esting things about the Council is the
women themselves who constitute the body
of the Council, its speakers and delegates.
To study these grand women who came to-
gether from many cities, and various or-
ganizations, representing a variety of lines
of work, and each with ideas of her own,
and plans to be submitted, furnishes charac-
ter-study of sufficient interest to make one
almost forget her own particular enterprise
in the endeavor to know human nature
better.
	Tuesday morning (closed session) the
work of the Executive began in earnest,
and continued during the week with
scarcely time to make one’s self comfortable
so strenuous was the effort to keep up with
the work in hand.
	The Young Woman’s Christian Associa-
tion very generously invited all the ladies
to lunch in their comfortable hall and every
day quite a number of ladies accepted their
hospitality. This was one of the many
polite courtesies extended to the Council
by the ladies of that hospitable city.
	At the close of the afternoon session
which was a continuance of Council bus-
iness, there was a “Tea” by the Fort-
nightly Club, given in the room across the
hall from the meeting, to which the ladies
repaired to meet and be introduced to these
earnest club women who had decorated
their room beautifully and prepared dainty
refreshments for the delectation of their
guests, the time was so limited that there
was very little opportunity for conversation,
and as it often happens the affair was
something of a disappointment, the meet-
ing having kept so late.
	In the evening; at 8 p. m., the meeting
was held in the large hall of the Propylæum,
a program prepared beforehand was given.
Addresses of welcome by Mrs. Kate Hunt-
ington Day, President of the local council
of Indianapolis, Hon. Winfried T. Durbin.
Governor of the State of Indiana, (who, by
the way, was not able to be present,) Hon.
John W. Holtzman, Mayor of the City of
Indianapolis, Judge Frank E. Gavin, Pres-
ident of the Commercial Club, of the City,
and Mrs May Wright Sewall, President
of the International Council of Women;
responses to addresses of welcome, Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, President National
Council of Women, of the U. S.
	After the speeches a reception was given
by the Commercial Club and the local
Council, and dancing followed. The hall
was artistically decorated with flowers,
flags and banners, in profusion, presenting
a brilliant and gala appearance. The
music and dancing kept up till a, late hour,
though no one seemed weary either of
dancing or looking on.
	Wednesday morning, 9:30, session open
to all members of affiliated organizations
of the Local Council of the city. First came
minutes, then reports of committees and of
organizations affiliated with the Council.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, delegate gave
the report of the Relief Society published in
this issue of the paper. Mrs. Beatie made
an excellent impression upon the audience,
she spoke clearly and her enunciation was
perfect, the report was well received and
accorded considerable applause.
	The report of the Y. L N. M. I. A. came
next and was given without notes or paper
by Miss Agnes Campbell delegate for


[Column 1]
the Young Ladies’, she acquitted herself
creditably and we, Mrs Dougall and the
writer, were very proud of Utah delegates.
	The American Federation of nurses fol-
lowed. Miss Helena Bernard delegate. As
this is a subject of intense interest to us we
listened attentively as she gave an idea of
the work the nurses were doing as a feder-
ated body.
	Supreme Hive Ladies of the Maccabees
was given by Miss Bina M. West, Supreme
Record keeper, and when she gave the
financial condition of this far-reaching
society it made ones head swim, it included
so many thousands in treasury.
	The afternoon was given to reports first
being National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, President Mrs.
Elizabeth B. Grannis. National Association
of Colored Women Mrs. Davis delegate,
National Council of Jewish Women Mrs.
Hannah G. Solomon, this report was a
particularly fine one and in many respects
unequalled. Great Hive of the Ladies of
the Modern Maccabees, and several other
organizations were reported during the
afternoon but a number of the organiza-
tions were not representedat all.
	In the evening a reception was given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall at her home, a
very brilliant affair, and very enjoyable;
many interesting people including a numb-
er of distinguished gentlemen doctors, law-
yers, professors etc.
	Possibly one of the Utah women might
give a good description of the elegant home,
old-fashioned and spacious, and of the bric-
a-brac ornaments paintings etc., but not the
writer, these things are not in her line. Day
followed day with vrork on committees and
in regular business sessions.
	Thursday afternoon was given up for a
trolley ride and to see the city, to be fol-
lowed by a “tea” to the National Executive
at the elegant home of Mrs John Candee
Dean, (a niece of Mrs. Sewall’s). Meeting
in the evening at the Propylaeum in the
large hall up-stairs, speakers, Mrs. Wyman
of the Relief Corps, G. A. R. Mrs. Krebs
of San Francisco, Grand Army of the Re-
public. Miss Louise Lee Hardin of the
Business Woman’s Journal and Mrs. C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Miss. Ackerman on
the flag, Mrs. Sewall on Internationalism,
etc., until a very late hour.
	Friday morning 9:30 was to be given to
Local Councils Mrs. Kate Huntington Day
reported Local Council of Indianapolis, Mrs.
Maud H. Showers Local Council of Bloom-
ington and Mrs. Pauline Steinem Local
Council of Toledo, Ohio. Mrs. Grannis,
chairman of committee on Resolutions
brought in the report, the following were
adopted.
	That the Church universal be asked to
place women on an absolute equality with
men in the pew, the pulpit, in council and
in debate, and that the church elect from
one to one-half its officers and members of
committees from the women members.
	That excluding married women from
holding salaried positions in the public
schools is an adverse restriction and criticism
upon honorable wedlock, the rights and
privileges of wives and mothers and a cur-
tailing of the value of schools to the boy
and girl pupils and a wrong to the body po-
litic.
	That when a child is born out of wed-
lock, and the name ofi ts father is definitely
known by admission or proof, the child

[Column 2]
shall be entitled to the name of its father,
and shall share in his property the same
as children of legal parentage.
	That the National Council of Women
take such steps as are necessary to establish
juvenile courts in States where they do not
exist.
	That the members of the National Coun-
cil put themselves on record as advocating
servicable and hygienic dress, as opposed
to extremes of fashion or to forms of wear-
ing apparel which leave any doubt as to the
modesty of the wearer.
	The resolution which caused so much
discussion was as follows. (The writer so
far has not succeeded in finding the resolu-
tion as it was brought before the committee
of which she was a member also Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall but we give it here as it
was published after being modified).
	“Resolved, That any practice which un-
dermines the foundation of family life
should be strongly deprecated. and since
polygamous marriage is a terrible evil,
which threatens to destroy the home and
the state in portions of our country, the
people should petition and protest against
the seating in our national Congress any
man who may practice or subscribe to it.”
	Although the resolution was tabled the
women who favored it gave warning that
the subject would be voiced once more be-
fore the council made its final adjourn-
ment.
	Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Dongall strongly
protested against this resolution coming up
at all and urged that Congress had already
brought the matter before the Senate of the
United States and that the Senate would
and was sufficiently able to settle its own
affairs, but the advocates of the resolution
were persistent in bringing forward all the
stories current against Utah and its people
and declared the resolution was sent from
Salt Lake City by people who knew of the
continued practice of polygamy—and they
compared Senator Smoot’s case to that of
Breckenridge of Kentucky, etc. etc. It was
simply talking against the whirlwind so to
speak, but nevertheless we succeeded in
getting the Resolution tabled at last and
practically killed, although we had to listen
to the speeches of women who really knew
nothing of the question at issue, but were
fighting a phantom through misrepresenta-
tion of those who know not what they do.
	The newspapers say there were 6 against
tabling and 40 in favor of it, but there were
really only 5 against it just one eighth of
the assembly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
	RELIEF SOCIETY TO EXECUTIVE SESSION
	OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
	IN INDIANAPOLIS, IND., FEBRUARY 3,
	1904.
	PRESENTED BY MRS. PHEBE YOUNG
				BEATIE
Madame President and Ladies of the Council:
	Since the report of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, at the Executive session of
the Council in New Orleans last March so
little time has elapsed that one has not
much to tell in the way of progress, yet in
the number of meetings and conferences
and in visits among the women of the Soci-
ety more has been done than during any
previous year.
	Our society has held over one hundred

[Column 2]
and fifty conferences; more than sixty of
these have been attended by the General
officers or members of the General Board
who travel in many instances long distances
and often by team over rough country
roads through mountain passes or canyons
to encourage, instruct and assist those who
are living far away from headquarters and
have fewer opportunities and advantages of
acquiring knowledge or understanding the
practical work of the Society along pro-
gressive lines.
	Our organization is charitable and phil-
anthropic and we reach out to the poor and 
needy and unfortunate, the sick and the
afflicted, yet we also try to teach the people 
how to live properly and how to avoid
much that tends toward dependence and
poverty by making better use of their time
and means.
	In the women’s meetings and conferences
we listen to reports of what has been done
in given localities and we thus cemprehend
better what the family life really is.
	When a local president reports her soci-
ety work in conference, she in a measure
represents herself and the people among
whom she dwells and with whom she labors
in the relief work.
	To hear these reports gives one a won-
derful knowledge of human nature, and
broadens one’s ideas of people and serves to
create an intense desire for better methods
of helpfulness; in fact the benefit is just
as great to the women who go out among the
people as it is to those who are visited.
	These visits to conferences during the
year have extended as far north as Canada,
and south in Mexico.
	Our last report stated that we had intro-
duced into our society in all its local
branches what we designate as mother’s
work. An outline of the subjects is pre-
pared by a competent committee and pre-
sented by women selected to lecture briefly
on the special subject; after the lecture
everyone present is at liberty to ask ques-
tions or discuss the subject and in this way
the lecture is explained and better under-
stood by all.
	This method has increased the member-
ship largely and brought more young
mothers into the society. The subjects
treated upon relate closely to marriage, its
puropse, etc., to prenatal influences, care of
the infant, the child, its rights and privil-
eges, obligation of parents, etc , home life,
necessity of obedience, industry, honesty
truthfulness, virtue, reverence for God and
sacred things, and all that will tend to make
life desirable and better in the home and
promote the welfare of the community.
	The education of trained nurses to care
for the sick who are needy and also as a
means of self-support to young women, in-
troduced as a department of Relief Society
work some years ago, has been most satis-
factory during the past year. Dr. Roberts,
who had been so successful heretofore in
this branch of relief work, has had a larger
number of students and from a wider area of
country than before. The class numbered
eighty-six, of this number seventy-five
graduated and received certificates from the
State Medical Board, as competent trained,
nurses, these young women were from
twenty-eight different counties in Utah and
some from adjacent states The course of
study includes physiology and hygiene also
domestic science as it relates to the sick
room. These nurses trained under the sup-
ervision of the Relief Society give a certain
specified amount of time among the sick


who are not able to pay for professional 
help. Mrs. Empey superintends the nurses 
work among the poor and has been very 
efficient in charge of this part of the depart-
ment and she also looks after the welfare
of the nurse herself when thus employed.
In this department of the society I have 
held the position of secretary and treasurer 
and have become greatly interested in the 
nurses and realize the immense benefit and 
blessing of such competent help among the 
poor and unfortunate and the spirit of true 
charity that is like the balm of Gilead to 
the soul of the distressed! Personally I en-
joy my labors in the Relief Society and re-
joice in the progress it is making; am proud 
that we are affiliated with this grand Conn-
cil of Women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN IN HOLLAND.
	On the 20th of March it will be twenty-
eight years since Dr. Aletta H. Jacobs, our
first lady doctor, took her degree. She
wss the first woman student at our univer-
ties, and had to go through all the un-
pleasant experiences which nowadays our
girls entering on a scientific course have no
occasion for. But she went on cheerfully,
and used her capacities in the service of
those who most heeded them. For some
years she gave gratis consultations for
women from the working classes in Am-
sterdam. Meanwhile she did not neglect
the women’s cause, and as she had made
the way for women into the medical pro-
fession, so she tried to do it into the larger
field of citizenship by demanding the bal-
lot, as well as her male colleagues. The
wise legislators of Holland then (1887) in-
serted the word “male” before voters in
the state constitution.
	Now, notwithstanding her busy life as a
practicing physician, Dr. Jacob is the pres-
dent of the Dutch Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation, and one day may see her cause
triumph, when the proposed changes in the
constitution become law. She and her
husband, Mr. Gerritson, who as deputy and
alderman of Amsterdam, did much for
women’s employment, are true democrats,
working for peace and arbitration, and for
the uplifting of the degraded class and sex.
Dr. Jacobs now holds the office of vice-
president of the National Council of Women
of the Netherlands, and was recentiy elected
to be one of the delegates to represent her
national council at Berlin at the interna-
tional council meeting.
	The Dutch National Council of Women
will hold its annual meeting at the Hague
on April 5th. This year there will not be
reports from affiliated societies, for all the
three ensuing days will be taken up by the
congress on child protection, which is to
take place under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council. More than sixty associa-
tions who are interested in this work, and
consist of the most distinguished philan-
thropists of the country, have formed the
committee of arrangements for this con-
gress.
	On the first day (6th April), the care for
orphans and neglected children will be dis-
cussed by jurists and rescue workers; on
the second, the dangers for children at
school are to be considered by pedagogical
and medical authorities; and on the third,
the evil consequences of children leaving
school and being set to work too early are to
be pointed out by labor inspectors and
speakers from trades unions.
	As usual, the Dutch National Council of


Women extends a cordial invitation to
members of national councils in other coun-
tries, and would be glad to welcome those
who understand the language in the Hague
on the 5th of April.
	I should be glad if they could bring con-
gratulations to my friend on March 10th,
and visitors to our council on April 5th.
		Yours sincerely,
			MARTINA G. KRAMERS.
Rotterdam, February 10, 1904.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	Will commence in September 1904. Four
lessons a week, continuing until 1905, In-
structor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. There
will also be a course in cooking and lectures
on important subjects by ladies chosen from
or by the General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety. Terms for tuition, including hall and
janitor expenses, ten dollars per student.
	Students will be obliged to furnish their
own note books, text books and pencils.
	The students shall each sign a contract
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days
or whatever pay shall be designated by the
superintendent for two years from the date
of graduation.
	Any one desiring to take the nurse
course and not paid by the Relief Society of
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract. All
correspondence on this subject should be
addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N.
West Temple Street.
				EMMA A. EMPEY,,
Superintendent Relief Society Nurse Class.


[Column 1]
		THE SUEZ CANAL.
Editor Exponent:
	You ask me to give you a few particulars
relative to my journey through the Suez
canal in 1874.
	We started from Bombay in one of the
Peninsula & Oriental Company’s Steamers
and arrived at Suez; which is the port of
Egypt on the Red sea and southern term-
inus of the Suez canal.
	The site is naturally an absolute desert
and until the water of the Nile was intro-
duced by a fresh water canal in 1863 the
water supply of Suez was brought across
the head of the gulf from the wells of
Moses on the Arabian coast or else carried
on camels, an hour’s journey from the
brackish wells of “Bic Survees.”
Suez itself is a most uninteresting place
with its mean Kozace or rows of native
shops and Mosques and its Mongrel popu-
lation. The only thing of interest to
travelers is the variety of dirty costumes
and the splendid view of the Sinai mount-
ains on its eastern, and Mount Alako on
its western shore.
	It was indeed a great achievement to re-
duce the distance between Western Europe
and India from 11,378 miles to 7,628
miles, equal to saving 36 days voyage (es-
pecially to sufferers by sea sickness), and
this was the result effected by cutting the
Suez canal between the Red sea and the
Mediterranean. Great credit and an ever-
lasting name is due Monsieur Ferdinand de
Lesseps, who was the great engineer who
brought the work to a successful issue.
From 1849 to 1854 he was occupied in ma-
turing his plans.
	He constituted a company called the Uni-
versal Suez Canal Company. It was not

[Column 2]
until the year 1860 that the work was act-
ually commenced. The canal extends from
Suez on the Red Sea to Port Said on the
Mediterranean. In going through the
Suez canal we pass through three lakes
(“Truly in the desert a fountain is spring-
ing, in the wild waste there still is a tree.”)
	Lake Menzaleh is nearest to the Mediter-
ranean. Lake Timsah is about one-half
way across the isthmus, fresh water, and
about five miles long, and. the Bitter Lake
(called so from the bitter taste of the water)
about twenty-three miles long. There are
buoys placed for the ships to pass between
(as they are very wide in some places—ten
miles and even more) so that it is necessary
to have some means to direct the course of
the ships.
	The whole length of the canal after pass-
ing through the locks, etc., at the entrance
and exit, is sixty-six miles. At every five
or six miles there is a passing place to en-
able large vessels to moor during the night,
and to bring up for other vessels to pass.
	All vessels not mails have to draw into
these passing places to allow the mails to
pass through without any delay. This
courtesy is accorded to mails of every
nation.
	Dredging machines are constantly at
work, as the shifting sands would other-
wise make the canal unnavigable.
	During the cutting of the canal fresh
water was conveyed from the Nile at Cairo
and distributed along the whole length of
the canal, a work which of itself was of no
small magnitude. The cost of the whole
works is stated to be about £20,000,000.
	The canal is a highway for steamers of
400 feet in length and 50 feet wide. It takes
three days to pass from Suez to Fort Said.
	The following table will give you some
idea of the use of the canal from 1870 to
1874, and of course the use and reveuue
arising from it now must be much greater:
Year		No. of Ships	Tonnage		Receipts
1870		486		654,915		206,373
1871		765		1,142,200	359,748
1872		1,082	1,744,481	656,303
1873		1,173	2,084.072	915,892
1874		1,264	2,423,672	994,375
	The tonnage was thus quadrupled in five
years.
	As far as the eye can see there is nothing
but sand and high hillocks of it in some
places like little mountains, but since the
canal has been cut there is vegetation of
mild growth, but it gave me the impression
even then that with fresh water the desert
might yet fulfill the words of scripture and
blossom like the rose.
	I knew nothing in those days of this won-
derful western desert that has literally ful-
filled the promise. I had the pleasure of
seeing for the first time a mirage. I said
to the Captain surely that is a town and
fields we see, and he allowed me to use his
powerful glass, but it had the same indis-
tinct appearance, and he told me it was a
mirage and that sometimes they were much
plainer than this one.
	Port Said is one of the dirtiest places on
earth. When I tell you all the water is
brought from the Sweetwater canal at
Ismailia by a conduit and is barely sufficient
for the wants of the town, and to add to its
dirt and misery it is a coaling station for the
P. & O. Steamers, you can better imagine
than I can describe the dirt and filth of the
place.
	A party of us went to look around the
town and paid a visit to one of their Casino


Smoking Concerts. We had no idea what 
such a place would be like and as we all
had gentlemen with ns we were safe. Arab
and Italian women played the most aston-
ishing instruments, and altogether the 
whole affair was so disgusting we did not 
stay many minutes, but strangers like to 
see all they can in a foreign place. There 
had been no time for our escorts to investi-
gate before entering as we had only a short 
time to remain on shore while the steamer 
was coaling, and they will not wait a second 
when they are ready.
	Passing through the canal is a break to 
the monotony of the voyage and makes the
passengers very sociable. Although a jour-
ney from England to India is very enjoy-
able, and I should not mind making the 
voyage again to re-visit my beloved India.
With kindest regards.
			Yours Very Sincerely,
					MARIA FRANCIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Miss Florence Hayward has been select-
ed by the St. Louis World’s Fair to col-
lect the material for the exhibit in the his-
torical section of the department of anthro-
pology.
	Mrs. Lucretia Willard Treat, widely
known as a kindergarten lecturer, writer
and organizer, is dead. She was principal
of the Training School for Kindergarten
Teachers, Grand Rapids, Mich.
	Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker of Hartford,
Conn., was eighty-two years old on Feb.
22. “I am full of life and feel as though I
should live to be a hundred,” she say, in
response to congratulations. The birthday
was observed by a family gathering in the
evening.
	Queen Wilhelmina inaugurated the fest-
vities attending the queen mother’s jub-
lee with a gala dinner at The Hague rec-
ently. Speaking for herself and for the
Prince Consort, she proposed the health of
the queen mother, whose life, she said, had
been prolonged, “not for herself alone,
but, by the grace of God, for her people,
who adored her.”
	The Empress of Germany, the Princess
Henry, and others of the royal household
have promised to attend the Quinquennial
of the International Council of Women in
Berlin next summer. The Berlin Central
Committee has for its active chairman Mrs.
Hedwig Heyl, wife of the Imperial Coun-
cillor of Commerce.
	Princess Wiszniewski, who lately died
in Paris, founded in 1896 the Universal
Alliance of Women for Peace, and was its
president. Many American women are en-
rolled among its nearly 6,000,000 members.
	The maiden name of the princess was
Hugot, and she was a native of Bergundy.
	For more than thirty years she has dev-
oted herself to the cause of peace, ably as-
sisted by her husband, Prince Wiszniewski.
	Miss Agnes Mahony, a missionary who
is to return to West Africa next month,
will take with her a complete house, crated in
sections, and ready to be set up in the wilds
as a home for herself, a hospital for the
sick and a chapel for her converts. The
house is of Yellow pine, with a roof of
corrugated iron. It is forty feet long,

[Column 2]
twenty feet wide, and eight feet to the
eaves. It is to be set up near Cape Mount,
Sierra Leone.
		Ex. Boston Woman’s Journal.
			IN MEMORIAM.
		DEATH OF A NOBLE WOMAN.
	A bright spirit passed to the “other side” when
Sister Elizabeth M. Hart departed from mortality
on Friday January 15, 1904, death came without
warning and all were unprepared for the sad
event.
	Sister Hart has been a member of the Relief
Society Board of the Bear Lake Stake for nearly
twenty years, having been chosen 2nd Counselor
to President Julia P. Lindsay, July 13, 1884, and
1st Counselor, June 11, 1899, which position she
held at the time of her death. She was also Stake
Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. for many years.
	Our dear Sister has left a host of sorrowing
friends, and in the hearts of her co-laborers there
are thoughts which lie too deep for tears or words.
	Through her refined nature she could lead others
to higher tastes and nobler conduct. She carried
with her a sweet spirit of peace, and possessed the
power of winning hearts by her genial manner.
Her great desire was to remain true to the Gospel
of Christ; this she has done, and has labored
devotedly for the advancement of the work of
God, her example shines for emulation by the
daughters of Zion.
	It is a great thing to be ready at the Master’s
“call” with the work allotted us “well done.”
	The funeral services were held in the Paris
Tabernacle on Monday the 18th.
	The obsequies were in every way appropriate.
	Among the speakers was our beloved and aged
President Julia P. Lindsay who was grief stricken
at the thought of parting with one with whom she
had labored harmoniously for years past.
	The music was heavenly and inspiring. A
beautiful selection was rendered by the choir en-
titled “Thy Will Be Done,” and a Solo by Elder
Jos. R. Shepherd, “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep.”
	The floral decorations were profuse and beauti-
ful.

		Gone! sweet spirit to our Father,
		Gone to join with saints above.
		She has nobly filled her mission
		She has done a work of love.

		She has left us for a season
		And earth’s temple laid to rest,
		But the soul, Ah! its immortal
		And is mingling with the blest.

		We have lost a faithful sister
		She has reached the radiant shore
		We must labor on without her
		’Til earth’s pilgrimage is o’er.

		Then shall we all meet in heaven
		In that home we loved of yore,
		There unite with severed spirits
		With dear friends to part no more.
						NANCY H. ALLRED.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BIG HORN STAKE.

Lesson 1.—Woman:
1. Woman, who art thou?
	2. Where didst thou come from?
	3. What is thy mission?
	4. What will be thy reward if 
		thou hast fulfilled thy mission
		faithfully?
					Chloe B. Lee

Lesson II.—Home:
	1. Give ideas of a well-planned home 
		(Y. W. J. vol. xiii.)
	2. What are our duties in the home?
	3. Are our homes as we would like 
		them?
	4. Of what should home be typical?
	5. Influence of home and effects.
		(Ref. Young Woman’s Journal,
		vol. xiv, p. 516, vol. xi p. 577.
				Ellen H. Jolley.

[Column 2]
Lesson III.—Woman’s Influence:
	1. Her influence in the home.
	2. In society and public.
	3. With children.

Lesson IV.—Piety in the Home:
	Learn first to show piety in the home. I Tim.
5:4.
	The graces which adorn the Christian character 
shine with their richest lustre in the setting of the
home circle.
	Give definition of piety and its as-
		sociation with the idea home.
	2. Discuss ways in which a Latter-
		day Saint home differs from 
		other homes.
	3. Influence of example of parent.
	4. To what extent are silent forces of 
		value?
	5. Influence of early home life on en-
		tire future of the child?
	6. Family devotion and its value.
	7. Good resolutions and confession of 
		faults and failures.
	8. Proper literature and its use in the 
		home (Bible and Church publi-
		cations.)
	9. Command to teach children the 
		Gospel (Doc and Cov 58: 25-
		34.)
			Laura Lyman Bunting.

Lesson V.—Love for the Gospel:
	1. How shall we awaken a love for
		the Gospel in the child?
	2. How may the child know the Lord 
		loves and cares for His children?
	3. Show value of early training.
	4. How may we use Church publica-
		cations to accomplish this end?
	5. What stories shall we tell them?
		(Ref. to Doc. and Cov. 68:25-31.)
					Ellen H. Jolley.

Lesson VI.—Household Economy:
‘Tis not how much we have, but how we use it.’

	1. How may mothers be economical in 
		the home?
	2. What kind of material is always 
		cheapest? Why?
	3. How shall we care for our clothing?
	4. Teach children to have a place for 
		their clothes.
	5. Show how economy may be used 
		in cooking.
	6. Need we be stingy to be economi-
		cal?
	7. Will economical habits produce 
		happiness?
	8. How may we be economical in 
		making presents. 
		(Ref. p 146, Young Woman’s
