
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 32	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1903	No. 1


CONTENTS.
President Bathsheba W. Smith...........................	1
Declaration of lndependence Fast Fading Away	1
Notes and News..................................................	1
Visiting and Holding Meetings..........................
	.......................................Ann C. Woodbury	2
Anniversary Celebration..........Caroline B. Pratt	2
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting........A. Wadrop	2
Mother’s Work—Alpine Stake............................	3
Mrs. Logan and Clara Barton.............................	3
History of the Relief Society..............................
	.....................................Emmeline B. Wells	6
Obituaries...........................................................	7
A Good Woman Gone...................Rachel Isaacs	7
R S Reports.........................................................	7
Art Notes..........................................A. M. S. H.	8
Items from Spring City............Maria M. Jensen	8
EDITORIAL—The New Volume, Thirty-two...	4
	In Memoriam..............................................	4
	Reunion Thirteenth Ward R. S...................	4
	Birthday Anniversary..................................	5
	A Happy Gathering.....................................	5
	International Press Women.........................	5
	Editorial Notes............................................	6
POETRY—Womanhood...Ella Wheeler Wilcox	1
	Loving Thoughts.................Lydia D. Alder	3


WOMANHOOD.
She must be honest, both in thought and deed,
Of generous impulse, and above all greed.
Not seeking praise, or place, or power or pelf,
But life’s best blessings for her higher self,
Which means the best of all.
			She must have faith,
To make good friends of Trouble, Pain and Death,
And understand their Message
			She should be
As redolent with tender sympathy
As a rose with fragrance.
			Cheerfulness
Should be her mantle, even tho’ her dress
May be of Sorrow’s weaving.
			On her face
A loyal nature leaves its seal of grace,
And chastity is in her atmosphere.
Not that chill chastity which seems austere⁠—
(Like untrod snow peaks, lovely to behold
Till once attained⁠—then barren, loveless, cold).
But the white flame that feeds upon the soul
And lights the pathway to a peaceful goal.
A sense of humor, and a touch of mirth.
To brighten up the shadowy spots of earth;
And pride that passes evil—choosing good.
All these unite in perfect womanhood.
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
SPEECH AT WEBER STAKE REUNION.
	Aunt Bathsheba Smith was called upon
and spoke briefly as follows:
	“President Smith has told you the truth.
I know that the endowments are given now
the same as they were given by Joseph
Smith the Prophet. He was present with
us and lectured and talked with us after we
had received our first ordinances, and I
have met him many times at councils which
were held and he told us many things and
explained them to us, showed us how to
pray, and how to detect them when true or
false angels came to us, and many other
true things he taught us, and he instituted
the endowments through the Lord, and it
was not Brigham Young or any one else.
I know he was a true prophet of God and
this knowledge could not be stronger if an-
gels were to come and talk to me. I know
he never taught a thing that was wrong, and
if we obey him we will receive celestial
glory and without we will not. I bear this
testimony and it is true, for I worked in the


Nauvoo Temple and in the Endowment
House and in the Salt Lake Temple. This
is the first day I have left the Temple to go
anywhere since Sister Zina’s death. I was
at the first meeting when the Relief Society
was organized in Nauvoo and I enjoyed
the teaching of the Prophet and tried to
profit by it and to teach my sisters. Brother
Smith, I guess this will do?”
	President Smith: “Did Brigham Young
reveal plural marriage?”
	Sister Smith: “He did not. God re-
vealed it through the Prophet Joseph
Smith. I have tried to be one with my
husband and I was just as happy with him
as any woman could be, for I loved him
dearly and I knew why he practised the
principle of plural marriage. He knew it
was a principle of exaltation, and I wished
him to receive as great an exaltation as any
one, and I expected to share it with him.
If I lived my life over again, I do not know
that I could better it, though I have more
experience now.”
	Sister Smith then related a dream she
had concerning her husband and also some
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph when
she was a young girl. Continuing she
said, “God bless us all and keep us in the
line of our duty, that we may live our lives
in earnest and receive the glory and exalta-
tion we seek. Amen.”


DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE FAST
			FADING AWAY.
CERTIFIED FAC SIMILES BEING PREPARED.

	Washington, D. C.—The most precious
original document in the world today is the
American Declaration of Independence.
This sacred piece of paper represents the
sentiment and spirit that have characterized
the beginning and progress of this wonder-
ful Government. Besides being the great-
est statement of political rights ever penned,
it shines out as a literary gem without a
parallel, considered from any point of ex-
cellence.
	It is a great misfortune to the nation that
the original Declaration of Independence
has been fast fading of recent years.
Though it has been locked in the steel
vaults at the State Department in Washing-
ton, away from the light, for a long time,
the fading continued until now hardly any
of the writing can be read.
	Fortunately a number of years ago when
the fading first commenced, the Govern-
ment prepared an exact fac simile of the
original. This reproduction is still in the
possession of the Government. Thousands
visit the State Department every year to
see it. The Original Declaration is never
exhibited.
	A number of fac similes are now being
prepared, with the view of having at least
one placed in every county of the different
States and Territories. Hereafter, then, it
will not be necessary to journey to Wash-
ington to see the State Departments fac
simile. Every community will have a copy
just like it.


The artists are now at work on the re-
quired number. Each specimen is to show
at the bottom the official certificate of the
State Department under seal, with the sig-
nature of Secretary of State John Hay, at-
cesting that it is an exact fac simile of the
Original Declaration of Independence.
Every specimen will be numbered, and
registered in the name of the person to
whom it is sent. 
	The document measures about 30 inches
long and 22 inches wide. The fac simile 
is surrounded by a border composed of the 
coats of arms of the original States and 
both sides of the great seal of the United
States, all exquisitely done in about eleven
colors.
	The work of the artists on these handsome
specimens is past criticism. As mere pic-
tures they will be highly esteemed and in a
few years will no doubt be considered very
valuable. But their chief value lies in the
fact that the fac simile portion will be an
exact counterpart of the grand document in
which our sturdy ancestors boldly pro-
claimed to the world the rights of man, and
to the upholding of those principles pledged
their lives, their fortunes, and sacred honor.
							Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Cassandra Southwick, the persecuted 
Quaker girl of early colonial days, who is 
the heroine of one of Whittier’s poems, is 
to have a monument erected to her mem-
ory.
	Patti sang for charity in Rome not long 
ago, and the concert brought $20,000.
“Home Sweet Home” was sung at the re- 
quest of the Americans in the audience, and 
at the close she was recalled nine times. 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe and Mrs. Mary 
A. Livermore were given a breakfast at 
the Tuileries in Boston on May 2, by the 
Massachusetts D. A. R. Almost every 
chapter in the State was represented, be- 
sides the Colonial Dames, Daughters of the 
War of 1812, Children of the American 
Revolution, etc. It was a brilliant occa-
sion. 
	Mrs. Ingeborg von Bronsart lately cele- 
brated the fiftieth anniversary of her debut 
as a musician. She appeared before the
public for the first time as a pianist at St. 
Petersburg in 1853. After her marriage to 
the manager of the Royal Theatre at Han- 
over in Germany she gave up the profession 
and devoted most of her time to composing. 
Besides a large number of songs and of 
compositions for the piano, ’cello, and vio-
lin, she has composed operas that were very 
successful One of them, “Jery and Bate-
ly,” has been given at fifteen different thea-
tres; another, “Hiarne,” at five. A new 
one will soon be finished. Mrs. Bronsart is 
also the composer of the march, “Kaiser
Wilhelm I,” which was played at the 
opening of the Woman’s Exposition at the 
Chicago Fair.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
VISITING AND HOLDING MEETINGS.
	The presidency of the Relief Society of the
St. George Stake with Miss Eva Cannon of
the Y. L. M. I. A. and Brother A. C.
Woodbury as driver, left St. George to
visit the settlements on the Rio Virgen
River, April 20, 1903.
	We arrived at Leeds at two o’clock and
held meeting with the Relief Society,
Counselor Angel presiding. Here the con-
dition of the ward seems to be at a stand-
still. The policy seems to be to discourage
wine making, as it is such a menace to
the morals of our young people; it is con-
sidered best to cultivate raisin grapes. The
soil here is well adapted, to the Malaga
grapes, which make fine raisins and would
be no injury to the settlement where they
are sold. Wherever wine is sold it is a
curse, and I don’t believe the blessing of
the Lord goes with it. We have been gath-
ered here from the nations of the earth to
serve the Lord and rear our children in
righteousness, and I consider when we
raise anything that demoralizes them, we
are not building up the kingdom of God.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Toquerville and held a meeting with the
Reliet Society at 6 o’clock p. m. We had
a good meeting and were nicely entertained
by President R. J. Spilsbury and her
counselors.
	On the 21st we traveled on to Virgen,
where we met with the Primary at ten
o’clock a. m., Sister Stratton presiding.
We had a nice meeting and had dinner at
Sister Stratton’s.
	At two o’clcok we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Sariah Workman presiding.
She wished to resign, and was honorably
released, having been president for twenty-
five years. A vote of thanks was given
her for her faithful labors. Sister Mary
Hinton was chosen to preside with Mary
Beebe and Mary Reeves as counselors.
Sisters Woodbury, Morris and Bleak gave
the sisters good advice and encouraged
them in the good work they were engaged
in.
	Sister Woodbury talked on the benefit of
the silk industry for the little girls to be
taught when they were young and they
would grow up with it. Angus Woodbury
bore his testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Eva Cannon advised the young peo-
ple to become acquainted with the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to live so that their
example would be worthy of imitation.
	We went on to Grafton and held a Relief
Society and Primary meeting combined at
6 p. m., as this is a small settlement. The
sisters urged the people to consider the re-
sponsibility of directing their children, as
they were in their charge, and they would
be held accountable for them until they
were eight years old. We had not come to
teach them anything they did not know,
but to urge them to their duties as mothers
in Israel. Brother Ballard and others en-
couraged us in the work. We spent the
night with Sister Ballard and counselor.
	As we travel up this river we are amazed
at the amount of work that has been done
in dugways and ditches, but the country
now is smiling with verdure.
	The 23rd we went on to Rockville at ten
a.m. and met with the Primary and had
nearly seventy-five children present. Sis-
ter Farnes presided. The people are trying
to do their duty.
	At two p. m. we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Mary Stout presiding. The

[Column 2]
sisters imparted such instructions as they
were moved upon to give and then went
on to Springdale, where they met with the
Primary at six p. m. We had a houseful of
parents as well as children, it is a prolific
country for children.
	This morning (23) a flood came down
this fork of the river, it was quite a [-]ight
to see a flood come without a cloud in the
sky; the day before had been warm, and I
presume the snow had been melting. A
couple of men and boys caught some of the
w[-]od as it passed. Here the air is delight-
ful. This is as far as the settlements go.
	There is a stretch of country above called
Zion, to which their is no outlet. It is a
romantic place, the scenery is magnific-
ent. They have a wire tramway partly
built, they run staves down it to make bar-
rels, and if they ever get a sawmill on top
of the big tract of country that is covered
with timber, they can run the lumber
down, and save hundreds of miles of travel.
They have cut steps in the hillside where
they drive their cattle up. It would aston-
ish you to see them go up. We met with
the Relief Society and had a houseful of
men, women and children. Bishop Gifford
met with us in both our meetings. We
have a very good people here, they will not
sell their hay, if they have surplus, until
their brethren are sure of enough to get
their crops in. We partook of President
Rusch’s hospitality, and at one o’clock p.
m. we started for Toquerville, where we
held Primary meeting at 6 p. m., President
Adelaide Savage presiding. We had a very
enjoyable time and met with a nice lot of
children here. We were entertained by
President Spilsbury and her counselor.
	On the 24th we went on to Leeds and at
ten a. m. met with the Primary, Counselor
Stirling presiding. The good qualities of
the EXPONENT were spoken of and sub-
scribers sought. President S. Harris enter-
tained us at dinner.
	We then went to Harrisburg and held a
Primary meeting at three p. m , President
Mary Laney presiding.
	We arrived at St. George at 6:30 o’clock,
having been away five days and held
twelve meetings. We had an enjoyable
time and trust the people we have met
have been stirred up to their duties.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the organ-
zation of the Relief Society was appropri-
ately observed by the six branches of the
Relief Society of Provo. A meeting was
held in the Tabernacle at 2 p. in., at which
President Mary John presided and the fol-
lowing program was rendered:
	Singing, “Praise to the man," etc.
Prayer by Sister Marilla Daniels. Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel."
	An address by President David John.
	Recitation, “How Leah and I Parted,"
by Miss Pearl Daniels.
	“Great Men have Great Mothers,” by
Sister Emma Jensen.
	Song by Miss Estella Gray.
	“Relief Society Work," by Sister Sarah
E. Cluff.
	An address by Prof. Edwin S. Hinckley.
	Song by Mr. John Johnson.
	An address by Sister Marilla Daniels.
	Singing, “Oh, my Father." Benedic-
tion by Sister Elizabeth Brown.
CAROLINE B. PRATT, Sec.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Meeting held Saturday, May 9, 1903, in 
the 14th Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. 
Stevenson in the chair. Minutes read and 
approved. Singing. Prayer by Counselor 
Elizabeth Webb. Sister Stevenson made 
opening remarks to mothers concerning the 
sacredness of the sacrament, exhorting the
sisters to teach their children what it meant 
and the spirit and manner in which to par- 
take of this, the Lord's supper; she also re- 
ferred to the kind reception of President 
Jos. F. Smith, while absent on his visit to 
St. Louis and Kansas City. 
	Congregation joined in singing a hymn. 
	President M. Isabella Horne then ad- 
dressed the sisters in her tender, motherly 
way. Advised all the wards in the Stake 
to hold peace meetings on Monday, May 18. 
She then referred to the time when Presi- 
dent Brigham Young organized the Re-
trenchment Association for the good of the 
people; alluded to the past years in Zion, 
how dry and desolate the country was, 
and how the people were tried with poverty,
related how the crickets came down and de- 
stroyed the crops, and the sea gulls came in 
flocks and devoured the crickets; the people 
were happy, after all, and trusted in the 
Lord, and they were blest, she often won-
dered if this people appreciate the blessings 
we enjoy. Sister Horne said she believed 
the winding up scene to be near at hand, 
the people are being warned and should 
prepare for the changes that are to come; 
urged all to be faithful. She testified that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and 
spoke of the great instructions he had given 
to the people. 
	Sister Sarah Phelps thought much de- 
pended upon the women of Zion, they 
should not follow the fashions of the world, 
but take care of their strength and give it 
to reading the scriptures and note the ful- 
fillment of prophecy. 
	Sister Elizabeth Paul advised the sisters 
to visit the sick and afflicted, comfort and 
bless them, in this work she had great joy. 
	Sister Julia C. Howe, said we should set 
good examples before our children, we 
should uphold and venerate our leading 
men and women, advised all to seek wis-
dom and never speak against the Lord’s
anointed.
Sisters Jacobs, Morris, Reed and Gard-
ner bore faithful testimonies, and gave ex- 
cellent advice to mothers. 
	Sister Morris sang that beautiful hymn, 
"O, Jesus the Giver."
	Sister Henrietta Smith spoke upon the 
work for the dead in the Temples of the
Lord,thought we should go forth in love to 
do this work. 
	Meeting adjourned, singing, Doxology.
Benediction Sister M. W. Wilcox. 
AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


A brilliant company of men and women
distinguished in art, literature and science,
with some prominent in society and court
circles, lately assembled in St. Petersburg
to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the day when certain Russian women doc-
tors took their degree. Two ministers of
the crown waxed especially eloquent on
the significance of the movement of women
physicians. One of them spoke with grati-
tude of the intellectual and broad-minded
influence of his mother, who so conquered
the prejudices of her day as to be appointed
inspector of the women medical students.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LOVING THOUGHTS.
TO BATHSHEBA W. SMITH ON HER EIGHTY-FIRST
BIRTHDAY.
Some lives though beautiful,
Grow fairer day by day,
And like the sun's last rays,
In glory fade away.
I.
O, noble lady, stately, fa[-]r,
With snows of time upon thy hair,
And patience written on thy face,
That adds a charm, a pleasing grace,
Around thy life dear mem'ries cling,
Though oft a pang, or tears they bring.
The years with all their pain and loss,
Their diverse ways or heavy cross,
Have lain but lightly on thy heart—
A crowning sweetness they impart.
II.
REMINISCENT.
In time of youth a prophet came—
All honor to his blessed name—
And thou didst hear a prophet's voice,
It touched thy heart, thou didst rejoice
With Saints thou dwelt in loved Nauvoo,
To them and prophet ever true.
III.
FAREWELL, FAREWELL NAUVOO!
The Temple City now is left,
And wandr'ers of their homes bereft,
Turn westward in the hope to find,
The place that Joseph had in mind,
O, blessed home, these mountain vales,
Where mem'ry oft repeats the tales
Of anguish, sorrow, long since past,
Of friendships true until the last,
Sad reminiscences oft told,
The scenes portray—their truths unfold.
IV.
RELIEF SOCIETY—NAUVOO AND NOW.
Relief Society is named⁠—
That now in all the world is famed⁠—
And Bathsheba, thy name is there,
But thou'rt alone, the rest O, where?
Then eighteen did the prophet call,
To organize for women all.
Alone thy testimony stands,
The rest crossed o'er the golden sands
With Joseph are united now,
Crowns of the righteous on each brow,
Among all women thou art great,
Though left on earth so desolate.
Elect—a lady—Zion’s Queen,
Upon t[-]y brow, there rests serene,
A diadem of priceless worth,
A treasure God-giv'n to the earth,
'Tls love; and love of daughters fair,
Is thine, and they thy burdens share.
V.
IN THE HOLIEST PLACE OF ALL,
A Priestess in the Temple grand,
Where kinsmen meet, for kindred stand;
'Tis there a halo rests on thee
That brings such sweet tranquility—
O, thou art blessed, beloved one,
Those faithful workers there among!
The throngs arrayed in raiment fair,
Are Zion's Saints; the Temple's pray'r
Wafts ever, ever on and on,
Till they're redeemed, that e’er will come.
And as thy days so tranquil are,
Like music floating from afar,
So may they be till open wide
The gates shall be and then beside,
A great High Priest, thou art his bride—
Thou’lt enter there, e’en side by side.
Hand clasped in hand, O, glorious scene,
When clothed in robes of glist’ning sheen,
The Saints all meet, rejoicing then—
They wear the victor’s diadem—
Forgotten all earth's troubled dreams,
No more to cross its wild ravines—
The jov, the bliss of worlds unknown,
Are their's who bow before the throne.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
May, 1903.


MOTHERS’ WORK.

	ALPINE STAKE.

Lesson I.—Whom Shall our Daughters
	Marry?
	(a) Whom shall our daughters
	marry?
	(b) At what age shall they marry?
	(c) Marriage and its advantages.
	(d) The law of choice.

Lesson II.—The Young Wife:
	(a) Life without health a burden.
	(b) Health essential.
	(c) Means to promote health.
	(d) Pleasure in moderation necessary
	to health and happiness.
	(e) Evil effects of fashionable dress-
	ing.
	(f) A wife’s work.

Lesson III.—Pre-existence of Spirits:
	(a) Read and dwell on the beauties
	of the hymn “O my Father, Thou that
	dwellest.”
	(b) Refer to Job, 12th and 38th
	chapters; Heb. 12: 9; Rev. 12: 7-12;
	Eccl. 12: 7; also to the Compendium,
	page 179; Doc. and Cov. sec. 93.

Lesson IV.—Pre-natal Culture:
	(a) An important subject. Why ?
	(b) Effect of influences upon the un-
	born child.
	(c) Mothers should know themselves
	and be wise in all things—diet, bathing,
	clothing, exercise and sleep.
	(d) The right to be well born.
	(e) A God-like privilege.

Lesson V.—Infants and How to Care for
	Them:
“A rose with all its sweetest leaves yet folded.”
	(a) Care a vital question.
	(b) Cleanliness an incentive to
	health.
	(c) Bathing, clothing, diet, exercise
	and sleep. Teach baby to go to sleep
	naturally.
	(d) Effects of frightening the child
	into going to sleep, etc.

Lesson VI.—Nursing and Weaning:
	(a) Effects of wrong diet on the
	milk. Avoid all stimulants.
	(b) Regularity in nursing and its re-
	suits,
	(c) Why should the baby not nurse
	in the night?
	(d) Time and method of weaning.

In preparing these lesson, reference can
be made to the following books: Miss Har-
rison’s “Child Nature,” Riddell’s "Child
Culture,” the Latter-day Saints’ Church
History and the “Child’s History of Joseph
Smith the Prophet.”


[column 1]
MRS. LOGAN AND CLARA BARTON.

	The “crime of getting old” is a subject
ably treated by Mrs. John A. Logan in the
New York American, and it relates to the
atrocious treatment America’s Florence
Nightingale is receiving at the hands of
persons totally lacking in patriotism, ap-
preciation of services rendered, and court-
esy.
	Mrs. Logan says:

	This country is now being treated to an exhibi
tion of this spirit of the relentless demand of im

[column 2]
patient ambition to step into an exalted position,
made so by the self-sacrifice and untiring devo-
tion of a woman to the cause of humanity. The
excuse is that she is too old, not that she is too in
firm or in any sense unequal to the duties of the 
position she holds; not that she is not honest; not
that she does not know more about the work than
any other person in the Union; not that she has
not rendered a faithful accounting; not that she is
lacking in experience, beginning the work as she
did in her teens; but some one has decided that she
is too old to continue at the head of a great organ-
ization, notwithstanding the fact that she was its
founder and has made it what it is today in this
country. She has made an immortal name in the
service of her country and humanity, and must
give some one else a chance. The methods must
all be changed.
	A vigorous person of uncertain age must sup-
plant Clara Barton as president of the Red Cross,
a position she has filled for twenty years without
fee or reward, personally directing the work on
the field in more than twenty fields of disaster, in-
cluding those at Mount Vernon, Illinois, in Kan-
sas, in the Johnston and Mississippi River Floods,
at Charleston in the Armenian and Russian fam-
ines, in Cuba, at Galveston, and in other fields.
She exhibited almost superhuman ability, will and
strength in the comprehension of the needs of each
case and also by her endurance and executive
skill.
	Her successor is to be paid a salary out of the
funds of the Red Cross. Business men say they
must manage this organization on business princi-
ples, and yet not one of them could have made the
money which Miss Barton has had for distribution
go as far or do as much good to as many persons
as she has made it. In their efforts to retire her
they have added so many years to her life as to
make her an octogenarian in their ambitious argu-
ments. If the controversy continue a while long-
er, they will, undoubtedly make her a centenarian.
No suggestion is made to provide any kind of a
testimonial for her gratuitous service to humanity
since her girlhood, or to furnish her even a roof
over her head, though many European countries
have decorated her with medals studded with
precious stones Her own country proposes
to turn her out. as General Sherman said, “to
browse around the rest of her days.”
	We are not advised that the persons engaged in
this warfare upon Miss Barton have contributed
anything beyond initiation fee and annual dues
to the support of the Red Cross Society, or have
ever given one single days gratuitous service in
the field or elsewhere in legitimate Red Cross re-
lief work. They have spent their time in warring
on Miss Barton and bringing the society into dis-
repute, failing in their one opportunity, during her
absence last year, to do anything until other pro-
visions had been made in the emergency. No
other instance of any catastrophe that had occurred
since the establishment of the Red Cross in the
country can be found in which Miss Barton did
not respond immediately. Before any other ar-
rangements could be made she was on the ground
with her efficient force, distributing relief to all
sufferers. It remains to be seen whether or not
Congress and the people will entertain memorials;
thus sanctioning this attempt to despoil Clara Bar-
ton of her fair fame and name at the behest of a
disgruntled few.
	Florence Nightingale had no such fate, though
her service was never equal to that of Miss Bar-
ton. Is there not some soul in Congress to rise in
his place and propose a defence of this defenceless
woman, and name a gratuity to her for the rest of
her life that will place her beyond the petty rival-
ries and jealousies of any incorporated body, and
that will give her the well-earned peace and com-
fort she needs? We boast of our generosity and
lead in philanthropic work everywhere. Why ig-
nore the one woman who is the personification of
American generosity and benevolence. and who
commands the respect and confidence of the world
as an American gentlewoman?

	[ED.—Why withold the rose to the liv-
ing, which is more than sumptuous wreaths
to the dead?]


In New York the popular branch of the
Legislature has just passed, without any
opposition, a bill to grant tax-paying women
in all the third class cities of the state the
right to vote upon questions of local tax-
ation. This right is also possessed by the
women in about a dozen of the third class
cities under their special charters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903


[Column 1]
THE NEW VOLUME THIRTY-TWO.
	June has come again and with its advent
many things transpire and many anniver-
saries are celebrated and also very many
weddings. It has been said, and we are
inclined to believe it is true, that there have
been more marriages solemnized this June,
1903, than ever before in any preceding
month of June. At any rate June is to
most people the favorite month of all the
months.
	Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West,
puts on its best and most becoming attire
in June, roses in the hedges, roses by the
wayside, roses on the hill tops, in the gard-
en, on the lawns, wherever you turn,
are roses, roses for the sick and poor, in the
hospitals, the sickrooms and even the dead
are literally buried in roses.
	It was in the beautiful month of June
that our dear little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, came into existence, and every
June since has added a year to its age. Now
it commences its thirty-second volume. In
that time much has been accomplished,
great changes have taken place in various
parts of the world; certainly progress has
been made along many lines of thought and
action in our own and other lands.
	The cause of woman has grown wider,
larger and stronger since that first issue of
the paper in June 1872. Development on a
large scale has manifested itself and the
EXPONENT has been helpful in its advance-
ment of breadth and culture. Especially
has this been so in the establishment and
extension of the Relief Society, the greatest
organization of women in all the world. In
its pages from first to last the history of this
society is given, much of it in detail.
	The biographies of the greatest women
in the Church are recorded in its columns;
and short stories, (true ones) poems and
essays, written by the sisters young and
old, express with more or less exactness the
sentiment and feeling pervading the home
life of the women of the Church, also rem-
iniscences and experiences of the early days
of the Latter-day Saints.
	It cannot be amiss to say that this little
paper has been a household help that it has
come into the home with words of good
cheer, with the spirit of peace, bringing
encouragement to the weary, stimulating
the faith of the weak and urging them to
the performance of everyday duties.
	The EXPONENT has been a messenger of
the Gospel to those afar off, telling the
wondrous truths of salvation in simple lan-
guage, easily understood, explaining wom-
an’s work in the home, with the children,

[Column 2]
teaching lessons of love and devotion, vir-
tue and goodness in simplicity with earnest-
ness and sincerity, that cannot fail to reach
the hearts of those who peruse its pages
from time to time
	The EXPONENT has always been kept
free from details of sin and crime. It has
striven for a higher plane of thought and
purity of purpose.
	It is greatly to be desired by those inter-
ested in the best welfare of the work of the
Relief Society that those who are engaged
in promoting its interests will try to in-
crease the circulation of the EXPONENT in
order that it may be more independent and
self-supporting, and that its outward appear-
ance may be materially improved. All
these things require money and the sisters[-]
if they realize the importance of a paper of
their own, which stands for the best ideals
and principles, should be anxious to have a
magazine which they would be proud to
send out to the people as an evidence of
good taste and business ability, filled with
truth and messages of love and good will
and enlightenment to women of the world.
	May the year be a prosperous one, sub-
scriptions so increase that there will be no
occassion to plead for better support for the
paper that stands for the women of Zion,
proclaiming truth and righteousness and
every principle that tends to a higher and
better life in the home, the State and the
nation and especially in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ANNA SEARS WELLS.
"Think not alone of what the Lord has taken,
Thou, whom His love hath of some joy bereft,
But in the moments thou art most forsaken,
Think what His love hath left.”
	It is difficult to write consolingly of one
taken from the home where husband and
children are left mourning, and, as it were,
desolate, seemingly bereft of the light and
beauty of the home life. Yet submission
to the divine will is the only condition in
which we can find peace. “The Lord gave
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” To try and real-
ize this in its true sense is the highest at-
titude man or woman can reach in the deep-
est affliction that can come. To be
passive and invoke the Spirit of the Lord,
the Comforter, is to attain a state of tran-
quility that will bring “the peace that
passeth understanding,” to the human soul
in the hour of deepest sorrow. We in our
human weakness cannot know how the
Lord works out His will with men and
women here in this earthly probation. We
can only trust in Him “who doeth all
things well.”
	The Palmist says, “Wait on the Lord; be
of good courage, and He shall strengthen
thine heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.”
"Leaning on Him make with reverent meekness
His own thy will,
And with strength from Him shall thy weakness
Life’s task fulfill.”
	Whatever the Father demands of us, He
will give us the strength and the courage
to bear, if we trust wholly in Him, and lis-
ten to the still small voice within us and
commune with the Lord in prayer; and
though the way seems dark, light will
come, the light of His countenance through
faith in His loving and tender care.
"She is not dead but sleepeth.”

[Column 2]
	A wife and mother has gone from the
sight of those who loved her dearer than
life itself, but the blessed hope of meeting
her again is strong in the hearts of all
whose human love was precious, and how
much greater will it become in reaching up
to the celestial heights to which she has at-
tained. Only a little while and a reunion
will take place where there is no more part-
ing or sorrow forevermore. And trusting
in this hope of a glorious resurrection
hereafter, they will take up the life work
and go forward, with sublime faith in the
eternal covenants that unite husband and
wife, children and parents with ties that
can never be broken, that will endure for-
ever.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Anna Sears Wells, wife of Joseph S.
Wells, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of June 1, 1903, after a brief but severe
illness, was born in Caldicott, England,
December 22, 1863, and was the daughter
of the late John Sears and his wife, Sarah
Wagstaff Sears While Anna was a babe,
in the year 1864, Brother and Sister Sears
left their home in England and gathered to
Zion, coming here in September of that
year. Anna grew to womanhood in the
Spirit of the Gospel, always attentive to re-
ligious duties and devoted to her home and
parents.
	As a child she was industrious and fond
of household occupations; she made several
quilts when quite young, quilting and put-
ting them together in a variety of patterns.
Some of these given to members of the fam-
ily are still kept as heirlooms.
	She was married to Joseph S. Wells in
the Logan Temple. March 14, 1888, Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells, father of the bride-
groom, performing the ceremony which
united them for time and all eternity.
	Sister Anna Wells was a devoted wife
and home-maker. Her home was her
heaven and a haven of rest and peace to her
husband and little ones. She has left be-
hind five beautiful children to the care and
protection of a husband she loved with an
undying affection.
	Alice, the eldest, is now in her fourteenth
year, and gives fair promise of every
womanly grace and attribute to gladden
the home life of her father and the younger
children. Herman Joseph, the eldest son,
is a thoughtful boy eleven years of age.
Byron Sears, nine years old, Richard Harris
is seven, and baby Geneva is four years old.
	One can scarcely imagine a young mother
full of maternal love, with these sacred ties
binding her to an earthly home, with a de-
voted and loving husband, actually desiring
to be liberated from earth; and yet it is true
of this young woman. She had seen the
world beyond in vision during her moments
of agonizing pain; she had seen the glory
of the infinite and she told her husband
solemnly she must go, and requested him
to dedicate her to the Lord. It must have
taken almost superhuman courage to com-
ply with such a request, yet it was done as
she had urged, and soon after the sad part-
ing came, and her beautiful spirit took its
flight “to the morning-lit land.”
	Sister Anna Wells was literally buried in
flowers, and she has entered now the holy
city, and those, who are left behind toil on
through storms and darkness until
“He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REUNION THIRTEENTH WARD R. S.
	Relief Society of the Thirteenth
Ward in this city, on Thursday, May 28,
1903, held a reunion and banquet of the
former officers and those who had been
recently appointed at a ward conference
held Sunday evening, May 17. The new
officers are Amy A. Thomas, president,
Agnes Anderson and Emily Neibaur, coun-
selors; Florence Grant, secretary and treas-
urer. These officers with their corps of
teachers and members gave the entertain-
ment as a sort of testimonial of respect and
esteem to those who had labored so long and
faithfully in the Relief Society of the ward
—notably the late president, Rachel R.
Grant, who was appointed by Bishop Ed-
win D. Woolley, April 18, 1868, and had
served in that capacity over thirty-five
years. Her first counselors were Annie T.
Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, Elizabeth
H. Goddard secretary and Annie L. Musser
treasurer. Later Emmeline B. Wells was
chosen assistant secretary. Other changes
were afterwards made, the resignation of
Mrs. Annie T. Godbe necessitating the first
change. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was
chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Musser, the
treasurer, after a faithful discharge of her
duties was called away by death, and Mary
W. Musser was selected as her success-
or. Afterwards Mrs. B. W. Smith moved
to the 17th ward and Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells was made first counselor. Mrs. E.
B. Wells moved to the 18th ward and Miss
Fannie Woolley was chosen assistant secre-
tary. Mrs. Musser moved to the 1st ward
and Relief C. Atwood was chosen to fill her
place as treasurer. Mrs. L. A. Wells moved
to the 18th ward, Mrs. Louisa Spencer was
made first counselor and Mrs. Sophia Long
was chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Relief
C. Atwood moved to Sugar Ward and Mrs.
Mary Grey was made treasurer. Subse-
quently Mrs. E. H. Goddard resigned her
position as secretary on account of failing
health, having served more than a quarter
of a century, and Miss Fannie Woolley was
set apart as secretary. When Miss Woolley
was called to go upon a mission, Mrs. Amy
A. Thomas was made secretary, which po-
sition she filled until the reorganization of
the Society, May 17, 1903.
	During all these changes President Rachel
R. Grant held the position to which she
had been called and set apart in the spring
of 1868, making a long record of good
works and gaining the love and esteem of
all with whom she has associated, including
three Bishops, viz., Edwin D. Woolley,
Millen Atwood and Nelson A. Empey, in
this multiplicity of labor, temporal and
spiritual, she has given perfect satisfaction.
	It may well be said of Sister Grant that
she was true and faithful, economical yet
benevolent and possessed unusual executive
ability; the scripture quotation will justly
apply to her:
	“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the
needy.”
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.”
	Two of the officers called to act in the
society have passed away from this earth,
having finished their work here, Sister
Annie L. Musser and Elizabeth H. God-
dard; the others are still living and were
most of them present at the celebration in
the assembly rooms in the 13th ward.
	Mrs. Amy A. Thomas, the newly elected
president, presided, and on the the stand

[Column 2]
were the general president of the society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and the presi-
dent of Salt Lake Stake, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde, of
the General Society aud others. Counselors
Sarah Jane Cannon and Clara C. Cannon,
of the Salt Lake Stake, were also present,
and Sister Relief C. Atwood, who like
other former officers was present, and in-
vited to the stand.
	President Amy A. Thomas had prepared
reminiscences of the society which she read;
they were interesting and valuable as his-
torical facts.
	The speakers were Sisters Rachel R.
Grant, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Relief C. Atwood, all over eighty
years of age, Lydia Ann and Emmeline B.
Wells, Louisa K. Spencer and Sophia Long
	Bishop N. A. Empey made a few re-
marks and commended in the highest terms
the labors of the society and spoke of his
high regard for Sister Grant and those who
had been laboring so long and asked all
those who had known, the Prophet Joseph
Smith to rise and be counted.
	Elder A M. Musser added a few words
in his most gracious and happy manner.
There were a number of others who would
like to have spoken, but the refreshments
were waiting in the Relief Society hall up
stairs and the meeting adjourned to partake
of the sumptuous repast. The affair was a
perfect success and the sisters may be heart-
ily congratulated on the delightful enter-
tainment.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Maria W. Richards Wilcox was celebrated
on June 17, by the Relief Society of the
14th ward in this city of which she is presi-
dent. Sister Wilcox is also corresponding
secretary of the Relief Society of the Salt
Lake Stake having been appointed to that
office when the board was organized in
1877. Sister Wilcox has also been one of
the constant workers in Salt Lake Temple
since it was opened in May, 1893. She has
filled all these places with diligence and
faithfulness, and with honor and credit to
herself and those associated with these or-
ganizations, Her life has been one of use-
fulness, she has a large family of her own
who rise up and call her blessed.
	The party was held in the Relief Society
hall of the ward and was a very enjoyable
affair Counselor Margaret Y. Taylor pre-
sided and the teachers and committee as-
sisted in making it a success in every re-
spect; the decorations which were mostly
of lovely June roses, were very prettily
arranged and the hall was a picture in it-
self, one large bowl containing seventy-six
beautiful roses, one for each year.
	There was music, instrumental and vocal,
and some short speeches. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith made a brief address and
remarks were made by Sisters Lucy W.
Kimball, Minerva E. Richards, Mary P.
Richards, E. B. Wells and some others, all
of whom expressed love and admiration for
Sister Wilcox and a desire that she might
live to continue her labors for many years
to come.
	Sister Wilcox responded in a very happy
manner to the congratulations of her num-
erous friends.
	There were of her family Dr. C. F. Wil-
cox and wife, Dr. Edwin Wilcox and wife,
and Frank Wilcox and wife, also two


daughters, Ella W. Hyde and Mrs. Asper.
Delicious refreshments were served to the
many guests and delightful conversation
and interchange of greetings and good
wishes. During the exercises a handsome
easy chair and cushion were presented to
the honored president by the members of
the Relief Society.
	The EXPONENT adds its hearty congratu-
lations to Sister Wilcox, who is one of its
staunch supporters and hopes that the re-
maining years of her long and useful life
may be full of joy, love and happiness.


A HAPPY GATHERING.
	The Author’s Club gave a reception at
the close of the year (to usher in the sum-
mer vacation presumably) to about one
hundred guests. The “Little” mansion,
the family residence of Major Feramorz
Little and family, and during a period of
years the scene of many festive occasions,
was made very attractive on that Monday
evening, June 8; colored lights outside in
the shrubbery gave the place an inviting
appearance, and inside a band of music in
the spacious hall discoursed sweet strains of
favorite melodies; flags and bunting were
artistically draped in the entrance and over
the stairway and the parlors were not lack-
ing in elegant furnishings nor in paintings
of rare value and other tasteful ornamenta-
tion, and the fragrance and beauty of
roses and sweet flowers made the whole
“house beautiful,” There was dancing in
one of the parlors in which many of the
ladies and gentlemen participated, and
seemingly it was a delightful pastime.
Bishop Empey whom we remember as a
notable “caller” in years gone by, gave his
assistance, his voice ringing out fresh and
clear. The guests flitted from room to room,
many of them talking over old times,
and the hostess, Mrs. Little, and the presi-
dent, Mrs. Roberts, and the young ladies
who served the fruit punch in the most
genial way, made every one happy and for-
getful of care and anxiety.
	In the course of the evening the facetious
B. S. Young gave some of his famous reci-
tations and Miss Babcock, who is a cele-
brity in that respect, also rendered humor-
ous pieces.
	There were present Elder B. H. Roberts,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Major R. W.
Young, President Joseph T. Kingsbury, of
the University of Utah, Prof. W. Stewart
and wife, Prof. Merrill and wife, Judge S.
Stewart and wife, Attorney Stewart and
wife, Hon. W. W. Riter, Regent of the
University of Utah, Prof. Byron Cummings
and other notable people.
	It was perhaps the most enjoyable affair
of the kind there has ever been since the
organization of the Author’s Club. There
has been a reelection of officers and Mrs.
Eliza Bennion, of Taylorsville, is president
for the ensuing year.


INTERNATIONAL PRESS WOMEN. 
	The International Press Women’s Union
held its annual banquet in the banquet hall 
of the Ebbitt House, Washington, D. C., 
May 26, 1903.
	“During the serving of the menu, from 
9 o’clock until midnight the ladies held 
sway, and there was an almost continuous 
flow of roasts and toasts and witty disserta-
tions on various subjects of special interest 
to the women, which served to keep the


merriment at a high pitch throughout the
evening. More than a hundred pen women
and their guests participated in the feast of
food and fun. The speech making was
confined entirely to the feminine sex, the
seven or eight men present being silent
spectators of the proceedings. Among the
guests were many ladies well known
throughout the country for their achieve-
ments in the realm of art and letters, each
of whom contributed a speech, a poem or a
toast to the characteristic program.
	Preceding the banquet the guests were
received in the red parlors by Mrs. Mary S.
Lockwood and Mrs. Ellen S. Cromwell,
and a social hour was spent in the ex-
change of greetings
	“The supper table was in the form of a
horseshoe, and within the curve were nu-
merous palms and tropical plants, while the
the tables were decorated in pink peonies, roses
and carnations. Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood,
president of the International Press Union,
occupied a seat in the center of the outer
curve and presided over the proceedings of
the evening.
	“The address of welcome was made by
Mrs. Lockwood, who refered to the signifi-
cance of the occasion, and told several
amusing stories relating to unnamed mem-
bers of the organization. Her welcome was
responded to in seven different languages
by Miss Frances Graham French, president
of the Woman’s National Press Association,
who spoke for each of the nations in which
the International Press Union has affilia-
tions. Mrs Hannah B. Sperry, president of
the District Federation of Woman’s Clubs,
spoke for the absent members of the union.”
	The business meeting was held on the
following day and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
has been officially notified by letter from
the secretary of the International Press
Union, Mrs. Mary M. North, of her unan-
imous re-election one of the vice-presidents
for the ensuing term of two years. Mrs.
Wells was elected one of the vice-presidents
at the annual meeting held in Washington
in 1901, at the Riggs House, where she was
present and also Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	It is a noticable feature of the Union, and
in fact its main object is to become ac-
quainted, by correspondence and otherwise,
with pen-women of other countries, authors,
poets, etc. The letters from foreign lands
are always an interesting part of the pro-
gram of the meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	There are fifty Stakes to be visited annu-
ally by officers of the Relief Society or mis-
sionaries officially appointed. So far in 
this year the conferences that have been 
visited are Granite Stake, Uintah, Pan-
guitch, Nebo, Box Elder, San Luis, Emery 
Oneida, Salt Lake, Pocatello, Malad, Sevier, 
North Sanpete, South Sanpete, Cassia,
and Benson.
	The sisters who have visited are Presi-
dent B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie Taylor
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenberry; Elizabeth
Williams, Carrie S. Thomas, Rebecca E.
Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary T.
Smith, Alice S. M. Horne, Phebe Y. Beatie,
Margaret A. Caine, Ellis R. Shipp, L. L.
Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder. Only
sixteen Stakes so far and leaves thirty-four
more to be visited during the remaining
four months of the season.


The mothers’ work is beginning to be a
delight and pleasure in the several
Stakes and wards where it has been
properly understood. Women of intelli-
gence and ability have been invited to give
the lecture, and others to assist in discuss-
ing, commenting, or explaining so that
more benefit may be derived from the in-
formation contained than would be if not
discussed afterwards. In some places the
president gives the lecture out in parts to
more than one sister, for instance the sub-
ject is given to the principal person to
prepare a lecture, (a) to another sister (b)
to another (c) to another. This is all left
to the discretion of the president of the
society who is expected to take entire
charge of the meeting. It is well to have
the lecture advertised well through the
ward beforehand and all the women in
the ward young and aged invited.
	We have several articles left over for the
July number that will be of interest to our
readers. The Relief Society Reunion of
Jordan Stake, which was a most enjoyable
gathering, including the banquet and in-
deed all the exercises, one essay will be
published in full. The Old Ladies’ Party,
given by Mrs. Frank J. Cannon, of Ogden,
the annual meeting of the Daughters of the
Revolution, and the meeting of the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers at the Bee Hive in May
and June 24. We also have for publica-
tion minutes of Relief Society confer-
ences from one or two Stakes in Zion and
 plan of lectures from Alberta Stake for
mothers’ work, Brigham Young’s birthday
celebration, Mrs. Jennings Temple sisters’
party, the graduating exercises and recep-
tion of the nurses’ class under Dr. Margar-
et C. Roberts and Emma Empey.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
(Continued.)
	When the Latter-day Saints were obliged
to leave the City of Nauvoo and journey
Westward to an unknown land, the society
could not operate as an organized body and
the meetings were necessarily discontinued,
though the sisters continued their benevo-
lent work whenever and wherever an op-
portunity presented itself, and many were
in need of kindly acts and works of charity
and sympathy, for those were the days of
toil and suffering, of scarcity and hardship.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of these valleys
in the Rocky Mountain region, organizations
were formed, a natural outgrowth or con-
tinuation of the parent organization in Nau-
voo, for the same spirit and sentiment still
existed and was soon brought into active
exercise. During all this time the sisters
never lost sight of this institution as it had
been established, nor the promises made to
them of its future greatness, by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith
	Among the foremost heroines of that
eventful time should be indelibly engraven
on the minds of the women of today and
coming time, the names of Sisters Vilate
Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Mary Fielding Smith, Diantha
Billings and others now passed away.
	These noble mothers in Israel with

[Column 2]
kindly deeds and loving words inspired
many a fainting heart with faith and cour-
age and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with
roses, but were full of thorns and fiery
trials and needed their encouragement.
	Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary
organizations of the Relief Society in
several wards and surrounding places, and
although all the Saints were comparativeiy
poor, yet they helped those in greater need
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians
whom the Latter-day Saints have ever thus
tried to conciliate. The writer very well
remembers a Relief Society of this tempor-
ary kind in the 12th and 13th wards of the
city, where she had the opportunity of at-
tending working meetings for sewing, quilt-
ing, etc., when a very young woman with
two babies.
	In 1855, when in a more settled condi-
tion, President Young called upon the Bish-
ops to organize a Relief Society in each ward
and gave Sister Eliza R. Snow a mission to
assist them in organizing, and to take with
her Sister Zina D. Young as her counselor.
Of some of these branches, as far as we
know, there is no record, but Bishop Abra-
ham Hoagland, of the 14th ward in this
city, organized a Relief Society, September
17, 1856, and appointed Sister Phebe W.
Woodruff president, and she chose for her
counselors Sister Mary Isabella Horne and
Lucinda Southworth, Kezia D. Pratt secre-
tary and Agnes Hoagland treasurer. There
were also committees appointed at the time.
Visiting committee: Leonora Taylor, Grace
Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H. Rich-
a[-]ds, Elizebeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, Nancy A. Stevenson, Lucinda
Southworth, Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraising committee were the president
and her counselors
	Superintendents of work committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Farr, Agnes
Hoagland.
	There were enrolled 108 members includ-
ing the officers, all of whose names are in
the possession of the writer. They formu-
lated the following by-laws:
	1. The name of the society shall be the
Fourteenth Ward, (Female now obsolete)
Relief Society.
	2. It shall be controled by a president,
two counselors, a secretary and treasurer
chosen by the members who shall choose
such officers as may be deemed necessary.
	3. The object shall be the relief of the
destitute unemployed and all whom it may
have power to relieve or do good unto in
unison with the counsel of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	4. Those wishing to become members
may be admitted on the recommend of any
member by a vote of any meeting regularly
called.
	5. Members will be expelled from the
society for non Christian like conduct, by a
majority of votes of any regularly organized
meeting.
	6. These by-laws may be increased,
amended, annulled or added to at any time
considered necessary by a majority of the
members.
FIRST REPORT.
	Organized 17th day of September, 1856.
Commenced and carried on our operations
in a time of scarcity and under trying cir-


cumstances until the 28th day of March,
1858, about one year and six months, dur-
ing which time we have received from mem-
bers of the society in contributions of mon-
ey, wearing apparel, provisions, etc.,
amounting to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	$346.05
Quilts on hand and for sale. . . . . .	100.00
Overplus for work and property. .	101.12
					Total	$547.17
Paid out to poor in the ward . . . .	$213.77
Paid to our brethren of the army .	43.75
“	“	H. C. Company . . . .	63.65
“	“	P. O.  Fund . . . . . . .	6.00
“	“	Quilts to Temple . . .	100.00

		Total disbursements	$547.17

	Just about the same time Bishop N. V.
Jones organized a Relief Society in the 15th
ward and chose Sister Lydia Granger presi-
dent; and Bishop Seth Taft also organ-
ized on in the 9th ward and appointed
Sister Harriet Taft president, etc. Other
societies were also organized, one in the 8th
ward by Bishop Lorenzo D. Young of which
Sister Zina D. Young was treasurer; but
Johnston’s army coming here and the move
South, as a direct result of it occurred in
1858, which interrupted the regularity of the
work of the society wherever it had begun,
and it was not until after the return of the
people to their homes and when order was
again restored that the society was more
perfectly and permanently organized.
	It would be interesting to give many of
the incidents of those early days, what the
sisters did to raise means and even to do
plain sewing and quilting, old cotton stock-
ing legs were raveled to get the yarn to
sew with, also knitted and crocheted lace,
and very small bits of calico were used to 
make quilts. Later on in the sixties Sister
Eliza R. Snow, Sister Zina D. H. Young
and others began visiting through the coun-
try places to help organize and show the
inexperienced sisters how to conduct their
meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARIES.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Lucinda Richey.

	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call
from this life our beloved sister, Lucinda Richey,
in her seventy-seventh year, be it
	Resolved, that we humbly acknowledge the
wisdom of an Overruling Power, who doeth all
things well, in the loss of our aged sister, who was
a comfort in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife
and mother, a true Latter-day Saint, and a most
faithful worker in the Relief Society, being its
pioneer president for twelve successive years.
	Resolved, that we strive to carry out her wise
counsel, follow her noble example, especially in
never speaking ill of any one, and cherish in our
hearts that love for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, one be placed on the
Relief Society record, and one sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
				LIZZIE B. PATTERSON,
				ANNA M. MALLORY.
							Secretaries.
	St. Johns, Arizona.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Mabel Clair Johnson.

	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to re-
move our sister, Mabel Clair Johnson, from our
midst, and
	Whereas she was a loving wife and mother, a
true Latter-day Saint and an earnest, faithful
worker in the different organizations of the Church

[Column 2]
and in the ward to which she belonged, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That while we grieve to lose her, and
while we mourn with the bereaved husband and
relatives, we bow in submission to the decree of
onr Heavenly Father and say “Thy will, and not
ours be done.”
	Resolved, that we will endeavor to live lives
that will make us worthy to meet her in the life
beyond the grave.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
given to the bereaved husband and a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
				ESTHER OPENSHAW,
				LEVINA BRIMHALL,
				REBECCA JOHNSON,
			Officers R. S. Nephi Ward.

			MARY ANN GREEN.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of our
beloved sister, Mary Ann Green, who departed this life,
May 24, 1903, aged sixty-five years, after a lingering Illness
of twelve months and thirteen days, which she bore with 
great patience and fortitude. She was an earnest worker
and labored as a teacher in the American Fork Relief Soci-
ety, she was also an officer in the Primary Association for
a number of years. She took great delight in laboring
with the children, and although she never had any of her
own, she raised two by adoption and was a true mother
and a wise counselor. She had great faith in the ordin-
ances of the Gospel and remained faithful as long as she
lived. She leaves a husband, the two adopted children and
grandchildren to mourn her loss, and we realize she has
gone to enjoy a rest prepared for the faithful and in full
hope of a glorious resurrection.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, that we her colaborers in this great work of
love express our appreciation of her example.
	That we emulate her noble traits of character, of faith,
and charity, and her devotion to her religion.
					EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
					ALICE T. STEELE,
									Committee.

		FANNY CLAYSON QUIGLY.

	To the memory of Fanny C. Quigly who died
December 2, 1902, of consumption.
	She was born at Payson, August 1, 1867, and
lived a faithful life in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. She was married to Brother
John Quigly in 1894, who preceded her to the
spirit world in 1894. She was the mother of two
sons, the youngest dying in infancy, the eldest
survives her to mourn the loss of a loving mother,
	She was a member and teacher of the Payson
First Ward Relief Society, in which she was an
earnest worker among the sick and afflicted.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call from our midst by the hand of death our be-
loved sister and friend, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the
loss of a true friend and colaborer in the Payson
First Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record, also a copy be presented to
the bereaved son and one printed in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT.

	“Death softly came and bore away
		A sister true and tried,
	In the calm twilight of her days
		In faith and hope she died.
	She suffered long, then calmly bent,
		To meet death’s fatal blow
	An arrow sure in mercy sent,
		To sufferers here below.”
						AMY HANCOCK,
						M. A. ROSS,
						J. A. HANCOCK,
								Committee.

			ELIZABETH MAYHO.

	Died at her residence, Fourth Ward, Provo City, Utah
May 30, 1903, Mrs. Elizabeth Mayho, beloved wife of
Henry Mayho, and daughter of William and Ellen Oller-
ton Houseon.
	Deceased was born in Preston, England, May 2, 1859,
emigrating with her husband and family to Utah in 1897,
residing in Nephi for six months, removed to Provo where
they have since resided. She leaves a husband, two sons
and two daughters to mourn the loss of a most exemplary
wife and kind and affectionate mother. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1885, in Preston, England, since which time she has
labored earnestly and faithfully for the advancement of
the kingdom of God, and to establish truth and righteous-
ness upon the earth, always ready to bear her testimony to
the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Her house was always open to the traveling Elders and
missionaries as many brethren testified at her funeral ser-
vices, speaking feelingly of her as their “English Mother in
Israel.”
	As a teacher in the Relief Society of Provo, Fourth
Ward she was ever at her post of duty, visiting, counseling
and admonishing the sisters, deeming no labor too arduous
but performing the same with love and cheerfulness. She

[Column 3]
was a devoted friend to the poor and needy, a wise coun-
selor in her family and among her friends.
	Therefore we, her colaborers of the Relief Society, in
meeting assembled, feel to emulate her many virtues and
noble traits of character, of faith and charity, and to hold in
remembrance and high esteem her name. She died as she
lived, true to her covenants, with the hope of a glorious
resurrection, therefore we feel to offer to her memory the
following resolutions:

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly Father, He
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved sister, Eliza-
beth H. Mayho, and
	Whereas, we her colaborers in the Relief Society, feel
that we have lost a true friend and worker in the great
cause, be it, therefore,
	Resolved, that we tender our love and esteem and our
heartfelt sympathy to her husband and family, and condole
with them in their sad bereavement, while we submit to
the will of an Alwise God who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, that we spread these resolutions on the society
records, and present a copy to the family and also to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARGARET M. WATSON,
						EMMA J. BENNETT,
						JANE B. SNYDER,
										Committee.


A GOOD WOMAN CALLED HOME.
	It has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call from our associations, Sister Martha
Ann Davis, wife of Brother Heber H.
Davis. Our beloved sister and coloborer
will be sadly missed from our ranks.
	Sister Davis served for several years as
first counselor in the Primary organization
of this ward, teacher in the Sunday School
and teacher in the Relief Society. We tru-
ly sympathize with her husband and family
in their sad bereavement.
	Sister Davis was most energetic and
persevering in the discharge of her arduous
duties, faithful to every trust until pre-
vented from attending to her duties by
suffering.
	As a Society we sincerely mourn her and
we earnestly pray our Heavenly Father to
bless Brother Davis and his young daugh-
ters, and may the Lord bless the babe left
without a mother’s loving care, may it be
blessed with life and with its Sister Inez
follow in the footsteps of their mother. God
bless them.
RACHEL ISAACS,
President 16th ward R. S.


R. S. REPORTS.
PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Report of Relief Society conference held
in Escalante, May 29, 1903, commencing at
10 a. m. President Elizabeth DeLong pre-
siding.
	We had with us two visiting sisters from
Salt Lake City, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp from the
General Board and Sister L. D. Alder and
representatives from the different wards.
	Conference opened by the choir singing.
Prayer by Stake President David Cameron.
Continued by singing. Minutes read and
roll called, showing representatives from
seven wards, two being presidents.
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave a short
report of the Stake, had not been able to
visit as she should on account of the hard
winter.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron reported
Panguitch Ward.
	Escalante Ward was reported by Nancy
Riddle.
	President Elizabeth DeLong, by request
of the president of Circleville Ward, re-
ported that ward.
	Henriville Ward was reported by its
president, Sarah T. Littlefield.
	Sister Alder spoke at some length, giving
us some very good instructions on mothers'


work and the raising and training of chil-
dren. She bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and that Joseph Smith was a
true prophet of God.
	Sister Shipp then spoke on the great re-
sponsibilities resting upon us as wives and
mothers of the Latter-day Saints, rights of a
child, responsibility of motherhood, and
having unity love and kindness in the fam-
ily.
	President David Cameron was very
pleased with the good instructions which
we had received. Spoke a short time on
training children and responsibility of par- 
ents.
	Bishop Schow felt to endorse the remarks
that had been made, thought the Relief
Society work of great importance and many
responsibilities were connected with it.
	Minutes read and approved. Conference
adjourned until two p. m. Closed by sing-
ing, and benediction by Bishop A. P. Schow.
	Conference reconvened at two p. m. by
choir singing. Prayer by Brother Thomas
Heeps. Continued by singing.
	Sister Collings gave a report of Kingston
Ward, Miss Wilson reported Hillsdale
branch.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke on
Relief Society work and benefits of reading
good books.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron spoke on
motherhood and controling our children.
	The General and Stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented before the peo-
ple to be sustained, by Secretary Margaret
Haycock.
	Sister Shipp spoke on doing our duty,
effects reading has upon the mind, force of
example, education of mothers, paying
tithing.
	Sister Alder spoke on testimony bearing,
workings of Satan, the world’s opinion of
the “Mormons” and preparing ourselves
for the duties that are before us, and the
great knowledge of the Prophet Joseph.
	Brother Henry Barney felt the impor-
tance of the Relief Society, the great in-
fluence the women of the Latter-day Saints
have over the world and the great work de-
volving upon the members of the Relief
Society.
	Minutes read and approved. 
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave out
a notice that there would be a meeting for
the young people at 7 p. m.
	Closed by singing. Benediction by
Brother Almy Barney.
	Conference reconvened at 7 p. m. with
singing, and prayer offered by Brother
George Wilson. Continued by singing.
	Sister Alder spoke to the young people,
her subject being “Our Creation and Our
Mission to Earth.”
	Sister Shipp spoke on “Marriage and the
Responsibilities of Married Life.”
	President David Cameron spoke on “The
Honor of Young Men.”
	President Elizabeth DeLong thanked the
sisters for their visit and very good instruc-

[Column 2] 
tions and stated that conference would be
adjourned until some future date.
	Minutes read and approved. Closed by
singing. Benediction Bishop A. P. Schow.
			MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Uintah Stake held May 9, 1903,
President Sarah Pope presiding.
	Singing, “O, ye mountains high.” Pray-
er by Counselor A. K. Bartlett. Singing,
“Come, Oh Thou King of kings.” Minutes
of forenoon session of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah Pope made a few open
ing remarks.
	Counselor James Hacking thought it a
great mission to be a mother in Israel.
Parents should draw their children to them
by love and kindness, thought the mothers’
work would be a great benefit.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff, from Salt
Lake, felt to endorse the remarks of Presi-
dent Hacking. It is our mission to save
souls, and if we can save our children in
the kingdom of God what a consolation it
will be. We should teach the children to
work and to keep the Word of Wisdom, we
should always have a prayerful heart.
	Meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor James
Hacking.
	Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, as usual.
	The following wards were reported in
good condition: Vernal, Glines, Naples,
Mill ward and Mountain Dell. The statistical
and financial report of the Stake was read
and the general and local authorities were
sustained.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff read a letter of
instruction to the missionaries which she
had just received from the General Board.
Thought if we would send missionaries to
the different branches we would be very
much benefitted. Advised the sisters to gath-
er all the grain they could and keep it on
hand. Read the minutes of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, also instructions given at the 6th,
13th, and 16th meetings. Thought we
should not burden one sister with all the
offices but divide them up. Asked the
Lord to bless all.
	Brother Nelson Merkley felt to endorse,
what had been said. Thousands of souls
have been made happy by the sisters of the
Relief Society, was glad that we had moth-
ers’ work in the society.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought the in-
struction that had been read was enough
of itself to fully pay us for coming to meet-
ing. Spoke of the sisters administering to
the sick and of the great mission mothers
could perform among the young people.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett said a few
words in regard to our Church school, felt
willing to labor wherever she was called
urged the sisters to lay up grain.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks encouraged all to treasure the good
counsel they had received, bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel,
said a few words in regard to the Womans’
Building in Salt Lake City.
	Conference adjourned for six months 
Singing, “Praise ye the Lord. Benediction
by Brother Colton.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3- Main Street.


ART NOTES.
	Mr. J. T. Harwood, of this city, now in
Paris, has recently sold his water color en-
titled “The Young Mechanic.” The buyer
is John Wanamaker, of Philadelphia. It is
very unusual to sell a picture out of the
French Salon, and Mr. Harwood is to be
congratulated on his merited good fortune.
	Mrs. Harwood is painting some studies in
brass and copper, Miss Louise Richards,
Miss Rose Hartwell, and Miss Sawyer, Mr.
A. B. Wright, Lee G. Richards and Honri
Young are to be in the country districts
near Paris for the summer.
	Mr. Harwood and Mr. Richards (son of
L. L. Greene Richards) and Honri Young
exhibited in the recent French Salon, of
which we are very proud. It is good to see
Utah’s sons and daughters go to the art
centres and add to their native ability, the
culture and training of the Old World.
						A. S. M. H.


ITEMS FROM SPRING CITY. 
Dear Editor:
	Sister Mettie Maria Nielso[-] one of our 
dear sisters, died over a year ago, and as 
she was a subscriber for the EXPONENT 
and was a faithful member in the Church, 
and ever ready to help the needy, we miss 
her very much. 
	Our Relief Society is in good working 
order with good, energetic officers at the 
head. We have the mother’s work in its 
infancy and hope it will grow and be a suc-
cess. I was very much pleased in reading
the testimonials of the true character of Sis-
ter M. I. Horne and would that the same 
could be said of some of us. 
	The EXPONENT has been a great help to 
me, and would be to every mother if they 
were only converted to its merits. I pray 
the Lord to bless you in your noble efforts 
to do good. 
		Your sister in the Gospel, 
				MARIA M. JENSEN.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

