A letter received at the general office a short time ago is indicative of this. It read: "There are a few things that have been fretting me which I mention for your consideration. A lady who has been active and lived in the ward most of her life said she had bet her family that she could go to Sunday School and Sacrament meeting and not have one person speak to her, except perhaps the bishop at the evening meeting. She claimed this happened. It has also happened on other occasions." Church gatherings should be the most friendly gatherings in the world, because the Church is built upon the divine principle of brotherhood. The terms "brother" and "sister," so universally used in  

 Church, are symbols of the fellow feeling that should characterize us 'upon all occasions and under all circumstances as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'There is no organization more concerned with the well-being and happiness of mankind. Therefore, nothing should be lost sight of that in any way promotes happiness and good will. While a spirit of friendliness should pervade our meetings, it should always be properly expressed —never in whispering or other discordant ways. Elder Melvin J. Ballard said upon one occasion, "The future growth and strength of the Church depends upon our ability to win and hold and save our fellowmen." Friendliness wins and holds as do few other things. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in addressing the Relief Society sisters, said: "When persons manifest the least kindness and love to. Me, oh what power it has over my mind." Officers should never become so involved in the work itself that they lose sight of the people. Time spent in cordial greeting and in making a sister feel she is one of us is equally as important in holding her as is the perfectly conducted meeting. Members, too, must remember that while officers may at times be at fault, there are laws in friendship, and those arrive who observe these laws. And what are the laws of friendship? A wise writer puts them thus: "A man that hath friends must show himself to be friendly. That is to say, people who wish to have friends must do their share in the transaction. They must go half way at least.