66 HEN the sun in the skies of our world is blotted out by the clouds of fear, Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 2 The Heritage of the Home (Tuesday, November 25, 1941) Lesson Aim: To show that the foundations for successful marriage begin long before the time of marriage; in fact, that they begin within the homes from which the brides and grooms come. WE are married for only a fraction of our life's span, but the success or failure of that fraction depends to a large extent upon what has gone before. Happiness in marriage is the product of years of preparation, conscious or unconscious, whereby the infant is first formed and then molded gradually into a mature personality, capable of the loves and joys of married life. The roots of successful marriage for every man and woman reach deep into his past. Parents should realize that by giving birth to normal, healthy children, and by caring for these children and training them properly, they not only secure greater happiness in their own family lives, but _ they lay the foundations for successful marriage and family life in the generation to come. Someone has said that the home is the cradle of civilization, and this is very likely true. Most authorities feel that of all social institutions the home is the most basic, for it is here that life begins and grows, and it is here that habits are formed and that character develops. A good home is the most valuable heritage that man can have. Being Well Born The heritage of the home begins Page 574 with the biological and social backgrounds of the family lines involved. Being well born is the first and perhaps the most important thing in a good heritage, and it implies being born in a family that is both biologically and socially sound. Our biological heritage depends upon the kind of body and mind that was handed on to us from our forefathers through inheritance. Some people are handicapped from the start because of a weak body or an inferior mind, or because of a predisposition to such things as epilepsy and insanity. Such individuals are not well born, and their chances for successful adjustment in life and happiness in marriage are consequently much poorer than those who are normal and healthy from the start. When choosing a mate for marriage young people should realize that upon their choice will depend not only their own happiness, but the happiness of their children and of their children's children. Human traits may, of course, be modified and improved to some extent during life, but the basic capacities and tendencies of human nature are set by heredity and can be altered or changed but little. It is important, then, that we study family backgrounds and marry into only those LESSON DEPARTMENT families that seem to be free from the blights of hereditary weaknesses; it is important to do this if we would see that our children get a good start toward successful marriage by being well born. But being well born means more than being born of a sound hereditary stock. It means also being born into a family of industry, virtue, and high ideals; it means being born with a sound and healthy social, as well as biological, heritage. 'There are too many families that fall short of the mark in this respect. They may be able to bring children into the world who are both normal and healthy, but if they haven't the desire or the knowledge to properly care for and train these children, and if they, therefore, fail to give them the things so necessary to successful adjustment in life, they have failed miserably in their task. It means a lot to be born into a good family, a family with pure blood, a clean name, high ideals, and a courageous spirit. Latter-day Saints, for the most part, can feel fortunate because of the rich cultural and religious heritage that is passed on to them from generation to generation through the home. It means a lot to be well born. Personality Development Of the many functions performed by the home, personality development is among the most important; in fact, there are some who would say that it is the major function. It is true, of course, that a good home is valuable to society in other ways as well: it provides a: channel for the procreation of the race; it gives emotional satisfactions and happiness to the husband and wife, et 575 cetera. It could do all of these, however, and still fall far short of its goal. The home is the nursery of character, the seed-bed of all that is good in personality, and unless it is successful in its job of passing on this rich heritage to the children who are a part of it, it will have failed in its purpose. The human infant at birth is probably the most helpless of all infants. Furthermore, its period of infancy is longer than the corresponding period among other living creatures. These differences between. Man and animal present to man both a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge lies in the responsibility of caring for and training the young, and the opportunity lies in the possibility of learning and developing and advancing far beyond the animals. Animals are controlled largely by instincts and are unable to go much beyond them; man, on the other hand, is controlled largely by habits, and through the formation and re-formation of these habits is able to progress eternally. The helpless and plastic condition of the human baby, together with its relatively long period of infancy, makes possible the molding and building of personality. But it also places a tremendous responsibility upon the home, for unless the proper habits and attitudes are instilled into the lives of the children during the early formative years that they are in the home, bad habits and attitudes will take their places and the children will start through life with personalities that are warped. Home atmosphere is likely the most important consideration in personality development. If the atmosphere is healthy and stimulating, 576 the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous; but if, on the other hand, the atmosphere is clouded by pessimism and quarreling and hate, the lives of those who experience it cannot hope to be normal. We have all seen examples of this very thing— lives made sweet or sour by the social climate in which they must live. The spirit of the home is contagious in the highest degree; and since it is, a good spirit is of primary importance to the personalities that are growing and developing under its influence. The atmosphere or spirit of the home is greatly improved in families where religion plays a dominant role. Any number of studies have shown that marriage failure is considerably greater in homes where there is no religion than in homes where there is religion. We know that in our own church, for example, the divorce rate is considerably lower than for the population at large, and that where marriages are performed in the temple the divorce rate is lower still. Latter-day Saints are fortunate in having a religious heritage that carries over in this way. 'There is something about religion and spirituality in the home that clears the atmosphere and makes the home a delightful place in which to live. Developing personalities need this influence as a background for their own marriages in the future. This is not the place to discuss the various problems and principles of child training. There are many, and space here does not permit them to be considered. But what we would like to do is to emphasize and reemphasize the thought that a healthy personality is one of the first foundations for successful marriage, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

—AUGUS" 1941 and that the home furnishes the stuff from which personality grows. Here is a list of some of the major things that the home can contribute toward the development of the normal, healthy personalities within it. The list is not complete, but it is probably complete enough to show what parents can do through interest and effort to lay the background for successful marriage in the lives of their children. 1. Give the child attention, sympathy, and companionship, thereby helping him to feel safe and secure. 2. Maintain discipline over the child, but let this gradually evolve into self-discipline or control. 3. Train the child to accept responsibility and to exercise his own initiative. 4. Inspire the child with ambition and industriousness; give him some worthy goals to work toward. 5. Instill into the child the basic principles of morality, particularly those of honesty and virtue. 6. Help the child to adjust socially; that is, to learn how to get along with people and to make friends. So much for family backgrounds and general personality development within the home. Let us turn now to more specific ways in which the home can prepare its young members for successful marriage. Education for Family Life Over the past several years the writer has made a number of surveys of selected groups of university students for the purpose of determining what qualities young people look for in each other in choosing a mate, and which of these qualities they consider the most important. There have been variations in their choices from year to year and from group to group, but the following factors were regarded as indispensable or LESSON DEPARTMENT very important by all: (1) chastity, (2) dependable character, (3) good health, (4) emotional stability and maturity, (5) ambition and industriousness, (6) desire for home life and children, (7) pleasing disposition, and (8) education and intelligence. 'There were many more traits than these listed and stressed as highly desirable in a mate, but the ones given here are those that were consistently considered as most important by most of the groups. Since these are the qualities, then, that seem to be uppermost in the minds of the young people who are choosing their life's partners, parents would do well to remember them and to train their children accordingly. Burgess and Cottrell have recently made a rather thorough study of 526 couples for the purpose of determining and measuring the factors which make for success or failure in marriage. On pages 357-360 of their book, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, they give a summary of their findings, together with findings from similar studies made by Bernard, Davis, Hamilton, Kirkpattick, Popenoe, Schroeder, and Terman. According to these studies the following home situations are among those that are favorable to successful adjustment in later marriage: (1) close attachment between parents and children, with very little conflict in the home, and with firm but not harsh discipline; (2) good health; (3) several or many friends; (4) happiness in childhood; (5) parents happily married; (6) regular church attendance; (7) church marriage; and (8) adequate and frank sex education in the home. These are some of the factors in early home 577 environment that are shown to have a lot to do with success or failure in marriage; and since they are, parents would do well to attempt to create these situations so that their children might be better prepared for their own marriages later on. But education for family life involves more than the development of personality traits and the creation of home situations that are favorable to successful adjustments in marriage later on. It involves direct training and instruction as well. Girls should be trained in the art of housekeeping and home management, boys in the occupational skills necessary for earning a livelihood, and both should be instructed in the psychological and physiological mysteries of sex. Sex education is no easy matter, but as suggested above in the study made by Burgess and Cottrell, it is nevertheless highly important for successful adjustment in marriage. Children should be given honest and complete information on the subject from time to time as they are old enough to understand it. The information should be given quite naturally and unemotionally, and usually in response to their questions. 'Too often parents are prone to shirk their duty in this matter, and thereby leave their children's minds to the warping and polluting influence of vile and vulgar stories. Morbid thoughts and practices exist among mankind largely because sex talk has been avoided by decent people and left to be dragged around in the dirt by the vile. A knowledge of sex will eventually be acquired. Why not give it in the home, gradually and naturally as the need arises, and in this way avoid the morbid 578 curiosity and perverted practices that have been the lot of so many? A good birth, a healthy environment for personality development, and specific education for family life —these are the contributions that the home can make to successful marriage. Problems and Projects 1. What does it mean to be well born? How can the choice of a mate for marriage affect the future married happiness of the children yet unborn? Discuss. _ 2. Why is the fact that the human child is so helpless and has such a long period of infancy both a responsibility and an opportunity for the home? 3. What do you understand by home atmosphere? What effect does it have on the future married happiness of children? Give examples from your own experiences if possible. 4. What are the most important personality traits that parents should try to instill into children? Can you add to the list given in the lesson? 5. What do you think of the eight qual- _ities that young college students consider important in choosing a mate? Which to you are the most important of these eight? List the seven or eight qualities that you would like to see a child of yours consider most seriously in choosing a mate. 6. Do you agree that children's questions on sex should be answered in the home quite frankly and without emotion or shame? Discuss ways in which this 

 

 might be done with the least embarrassment possible. 7. Any number of studies show that children who come from happy homes are more likely to have happy homes of their own than are children who come from unhappy homes. Why do you think this is so? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., 1939, pp. 277-354- Burgess, Emest W., and Cottrell, Leonard S., Jr., Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Prentice-Hall, Inc., N. Y., 1939, Pp. 355-361 and passim. Dickerson, R. E., "Prepare Them for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, December, 1087 "PE 24mebFolsom, J. K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1938, pp. 217 ff. Groves, B. G., "Education for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, July, 1936, p. 15. Groves, E. R., Marriage, Henry Holt, N. Y., 1933, PP. 45-60; 191-203; 458-475. Hart, Hornell and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 255-306; 323-348. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., N. Y., 1940, pp. 37-51; 322-371. Richardson, F. H., "Training for Marriage," Hygeia, February, 1939, pp. 104- 106. Steffens, Lincoln, "The Influence of My Father on My Son," The Reader's Digest, July, 1937, pp. 23-26. Strain, Frances Bruce, "Sex Instruction in the Home," Good Housekeeping, May, 1938, pp. 80-81.