& A Pinch Of Dust Is A Dollar Martha Robeson Wright ATHER relaxed in the hidebottomed chair and_ sighed with content. "Well, them 'cukes' are all salted. Apples are packed good so they won't bruise. Looks like good weather for tomorTow." "T do hope they don't spoil afore you get 'em there," Mother said, her fingers flying as she knit. "Sure Tom'll be enough help to take along? Indians 've been bad up there on the way to the mines so Elly was tellin' me when she passed by here t'other day." Father was easing off his shoes and wiggling his bare toes. He didn't wear socks until it got cold, and this was only late September. "Don't you worry none, Addie." "But oxen are so slow. You'd never get away from 'em." "Tl figger that out when the time comes. Indians want horses most— fast ones. They only bother wagon trains that look like they had plunder. My wagon won't look any too prosperous." Father took out a black book he always carried with him—a little black notebook that he always kept notes and accounts in for each day. He wet the stub of a pencil with his tongue and then carefully wrote. I knew he was writing down about the apples and cucumbers. I thought about our wagon and the oxen. They looked wonderful to me. The plodding oxen never seemed to mind the heavy yokes. Everything was riches compared to what we had had before. Since we had come to be tenants on Uncle Jeff's farm, life was wonderful. As far back as I could remember there had never been enough to eat, but here on the farm we had everything —even so much we could sell some. There were two cows and plenty of milk and butter for all. Father had turned out to be a good farmer even if he had not farmed before. There were beans, corn, and apple cider made from windfalls; there was vinegar made from beets. 'There were so many apples and cucumbers this year that even when Mother made big crocks of pickles and apple butter and had the roofs all covered with quarters of apples drying, there was still so much left that Father was taking it to the mines to trade. My three sisters were asleep and there was just Mother, Father and me in the room. Mother would have plenty of company with the girls if I went with Father. But he had not asked me to go with him. He was going to take Cousin Tom. I wanted to go. "T could help as much as Tom and lot's more," I said grumpily. "Tm almost as big as he is, even if I ain't but twelve. Leastwise, I'm as tall." Father put away the little black book, turned and looked at me. "Jt ain't what you could do, Elizabeth. It just ain't no part of the country for a gitl—specially a purty one." He winked at Mother. "T'm not purty!" I got a bit cross for I liked being strong and husky like a boy and having Father call me his boy. "Red hair an freckles ain't purty," I added sulkily. Page 525 526 "They's some might think so," said Mother, as she turned the toe of the sock she was knitting. "Your hair ain't red exactly," she stopped and knit for a few seconds. "It's more like the color of a new gold piece I saw once." Then she knit faster and added, "You give up that notion of goin' with your father, Betsy. I need you here." "The girls can do all right," I protested, but I knew it would not do any good to talk any more about it. When Father said, "Elizabeth!" the thing was past arguing. He was going to leave before sunup. I made up my mind that I was going and that I would not be found till it was too late to make me go back. Cousin Tom came in. He was twenty. He was not much taller than I, but he was thick and strong. His hair was as black and straight as an Indian's. "Everything's all fixed, Uncle Ned," he said. "Both barrels so they won't roll?" "Yes, sir. Got the tarpaulin over em."? "Good. Well, guess we'd better get to bed." Father stretched his arms wide. "Ho-hum." Mother put her knitting in the bag that hung on the back of her chair. "Dear me, Ned," she said. "T don't like... I declare, I don't like your goin' up there to trade. Couldn't you sell around here?" "Everybody's got 'cukes' an' apples 'round here." — Father patted her shoulder, "Don't fret, Addie, nothin's goin' to happen—time's is gettin' easier." GOT up before the others the next morning and put on a pair of Tom's work overalls, an old shirt and a cap that Father had brought 

 

 from England. Even with my braids pinned up under the cap, I didn't look like a boy. Before I thought of the cap, I had thought of cutting off my hair, but decided that the trip wouldn't be worth that. I didn't like the color of my hair, with my schoolmates calling me "Red" and "Ginger," but I was proud of having the longest hair in the country 'round. I could sit on the ends of the braids. The cap saved me from cutting it. I wrote a note to Mother, gobbled a piece of bread, drank some milk and scooted out to the wagon and hid under the tarpaulin that was stretched over the barrels and fastened on to the sides of the wagon. Tom came out, and I heard him getting the oxen to yoke. Mother called me, and I knew she and Father were standing in the doorway of the house. "I can't think where Betsy's gone," Mother said, and Father chuckled. "She's hiding around somewhere, sulking," he said. "She's had her own way around here so much she's put out 'cause she can't go with us." "T'm glad you didn't let her. I can imagine how those mining towns are," said Mother—"gambling houses, saloons and...." Father laughed. "I know what you mean, Addie. Don't worry, Tom and I'll keep an eye on each other, won't we, Tom?" Tom answered, "Yes, sir' in a serious voice, and Father laughed again. I heard him go to the wagon and felt him climb on the seat while Tom was hitching the oxen. "Got the rifles and ammunition?" "Yes, sir, ''ve even got some extra back in the wagon with the box of A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR food Aunt Addie fixed up an' the bedrolls." Father took out the bull whip. "Whee-e-e! Git-up!" he holloed, and the wagon moved. " 'Bye, Addie. 'Bye, girls!" =£When Mother and the girls called, "Good-by," Father yelled in a louder voice, " 'Bye, Betsy." I giggled to myself. I don't know how far we went, but I was very uncomfortable as the day grew warmer. Then I heard Father say, "Well, guess we'd better eat and rest while the sun's high. Glad Addie got all that stuff ready. There's no good attractin' Indians with a fire. There should bea spring hereabouts I was told." The wagon stopped and Father was at the tarpaulin. He lifted it and sawme. "Well... I'll be...." He was so angry and so surprised, he stood there with his mouth wide open. I crawled out, rubbing myself tenderly. "Can I ride up on the seat? I'm sore." Father caught his breath. Looked as if he'd like to whip me. "T had to come." My throat was dry, and my heart was pounding. "Where'd you get that rig?" "It's Tom's. The cap's yours. I don't look like a girl, do I?" "Elizabeth, I don't like being disobeyed. I ought to make you stay under that tarpaulin all the way, but I guess that'd be too much punishment. You can't go back now. How could you be so thoughtless of your mother?" "T left a note," I said meekly, but my heart was beating excitedly. "We'll probably meet someone going back who'll take word for us. Come on, we'll eat and rest." Tom was working for Father so He 527 he could have something to get married on in the spring. He wanted to marry Selma Peterson, but she said she'd only marry him if he had something of his own. She kept Tom in anxiety all the time by being nice to other boys. Father liked to tease ' Tom a little bit, too. "Times are gettin' soft, Tom, when a couple's got to have a big nest egz to get married. You and Selma were born and raised here. You're used to it. Suppose," he added more seriously, "you lived in England in a nice little thatched cottage and had your own loom, then gave it all up to come out here and starve for the first years? Your Aunt Addie wasn't used to it, but that didn't faze her. I guess Selma's soft, Tom." "She's just practical, Uncle Ned," Tom answered very seriously. HEN we finally got to the mining town, I got scared. I would have to keep my hair up under the cap all the time. There was so much bustle and noise; men were hurrying around, and the only women we saw were dressed up something beautiful. I told Father I'd sure like to be like them, but Father got cross and said, "I hope not." So I kept still, because I know Father always says, "Purty is as purty does." As Father turned into the deeprutted street, men raised an arm in greeting and looked peaceful, but Father said they'd fight and cut each other's throats for dust, especially after they had had a drink of whisky. There were signs in front of the general store: "EGGS—so cents each. "POTATOES—75 cents each. "SHOVELS—$15.00. "PICKS—$10.00," 528 Father pulled up by the general store, and I could see the dickering light in his eyes. Tom took off the tarpaulin and rolled the barrels to the side of the wagon next to the plank sidewalks. Father set some rosy apples on the side of the wagon and began to polish one on his shirt sleeve. He told me to start eating a "cuke." Men began to come around. "What you take fer them apples, miste®" one called. Father just turned the apples around so some of the yellow'd show. The owner4ef the General Store came out. "Hey! Vats diss? I puy all you stuff." "Get away, Jenson," another man yelled, "this ain't goin' to be your profit this time." Everyone laughed, and Mr. Jenson grinned. Then Father said, "How much am I offered?" Mr. Jenson had brought some gold dust scales out with him, and held them up. "Oh, we don't need no scales," yelled a miner, "a pinch of dust is a dollar. I'll give a pinch of dust for each apple and a pinch for each 'cuke.'" "Suits me," they all yelled, and started stamnpeding around like cattle. Father sold each man one apple and one "cuke" first, and after that they could buy as much as they could pay for. I noticed that some men's thumbs and forefingers were bigger and took bigger pinches of dust than others, but everybody seemed satisfied. Tom bought some grain for the oxen. The men stood around —a the juicy apples. "Ain't you going to buy something to take back to Mother and the girls," I whispered. "You go get something." 

 

 "T can't, In supposed to be a boy." "Well, we'll all go in." We bought earrings for Mother and bright new calic@ for dresses and four hair combs for Selma and the three girls—three of the combs just alike so the girls wouldn't quarrel over whose was the prettiest. I tried not to look too interested. Father bought five straw shaker bonnets all the same size. We girls could grow into them. We carried the stuff out to the wagon and laid it on the tarpaulin, then rolled up the tarpaulin so it looked just like a roll of canvas in the wagon beside our bedrolls and the empty barrels. Father bought supplies and two money belts for him and Tom to put around their waists to carry the dust in. "You petter stay de night," Mr. Jenson.. "Thanks kindly," said Father, "but we gotta get back. We will some other time." "Injuns been bad lately. They'd steal de skin off you. Some white men don't like to work for gol' dust eeder. Pe careful," admonished Mr. Jenson., said F, were feeling good and got more than half way home when we met the Indians.- It was just after we had broken camp when a bunch of them came riding over the hill. "Get that hair out of sight," commanded Father, and I was so scared I just pushed it up under the cap and didn't take time to pin it firmly. The Indians came nearer and looked us over. 'The leader got off his horse and approached Father. They talked in the Indian language for some time, and Father showed him the empty barrels—even had A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR him smell them. Finally, the chief nodded and got back on his horse. Father started the oxen, and we went slowly away from the band of Redmen who watched us go. "That was "close," Father muttered under his breath. I was hot and sweating from fright. 'he heavy cap itched my head; and now that the danger was over, I pushed it back of my forehead, and one of my long braids fell out. "Get that hair back," Father said sharply, but it was too late. The Indians came riding toward us gesticulating and excited. "Damage is done," said Father. "The likes of your hair ain't been seen in these parts. 'Take your hat off." My braids hanging long and shining in the sun, the breeze stirring my hair, made Tom say, "Your hair looks like fire." Fathér had stopped the oxen and sat looking at the Indian who did the talking. At length Father turned to me, "He wants to take you with him. He says the medicine man told them a sign of happiness and good hunting would come from the sun-god. He thinks you're it." "We gotta think quick," said Tom. "Maybe they'd just take the hair," I said. "Cut it off?" Youd think I'd struck Father. I nodded. "All we can do is see." The chief seemed to like the idea and held out his big knife to Father. Father said, "Steady, Elizabeth," as he cut one braid off, then the other. When both braids were in his hands, he gave them solemnly to the chief. Then he returned the knife. The 529 Indians looked like they were going to kiss the braids. My head felt queer. Everything seemed to be going around. After the Indians had gone, Father gave me a drink of water. I cried for a long time. "Guess you got your fill of this trip, didn't you?" said Father. VERYBODY was. Surprised to see us at home. They'd given us up for having been massacred by the Indians. 'Tom was surprised to see Selma there with Mother. Selma gave a shriek and ran_to 'Tom and hung on to him so tight that he lifted her off the ground. "We thought you were scalped by the Indians," said Mother weeping with joy. "I could just see Betsy's beautiful long hair a hanging on to some Indian's belt." I gulped, but I couldn't say anything. I just jerked off my cap and stood there. Mother let out a shriek and clutched Father. "My poor little girl! They scalped her!' We all began to cry, and it set up an awful din. Father began to get mad. "She ain't scalped. It'll grow out. It's her own fault for comin' along." When Father told Mother. All about it, she dried her eyes at once. "Serves you right, Betsy," she said in a firm voice. "It's a just punishment. You'll look like a boy now all right." "All come into the house," said Father, and he and Tom took in all the things we had brought home. Father handed one of the bonnets to Selma. "For the bride," he said, with a little bow. Selma blushed and said, been asked outright yet." Then Tom got red, and said, "T "LT ain't 530 was waiting to see if you liked that Taggart better'n me." "I knew I didn't the minute I heard you was dead by the Indians," said Selma, and she blushed fit to kill when we all screamed with laughing. Father said, "No, he's alive. You won't change your mind though, I hope." I began to feel proud that I had been through that trip, for the girls were looking at me like I was something wonderful. I knew I could get them to do anything I wanted all winter, just by offering to tell them all that had happened. Father was sitting in his chair writing in his little black book. Mother, who had been shaking her head to make the new earrings dangle, stopped to say, " 

 presents are... Purty, but it's you:. It's you bein' back safe that counts." -Father cleared his throat and looked out the window a minute. "Tradin's getting soft," he said. ""T didn't have to dicker about them apples and 'cukes' at all.. They set their own price—high, too. I'm takin' this dust and buyin' me some merchandise, and I'm goin' to start a store. When you don't have to dicker with folks, then its time to start a store. Tom, you can be my clerk." "Yes, sir," said Tom. That is how my Father started the first general store in our part of the country. ~~ GG.