Priscilla Livingston Evans John Henry Evans HILE the Evanses were livW ing in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Evans, on the invitation of the Associated Women of the American Farm Bureau, delivered an address in Chicago as guest speaker. One of her interested listeners was a man high in the councils in Washington, who spoke on the same program. On his return to the Capitol, he said impressively to a colleague: "If I had a group of women who could talk like that, I could organize the women of this country around any great issue!" And he meant just that. When we go behind this remark to find its cause, as we shall do presently, we shall come upon a very interesting tap-root quality in Mrs. Evans. But first, something about the facts of her life. Priscilla Livingston Evans was born and reared in Salt Lake City, and there she received most of her schooling. Her birthplace was a lot in the Eleventh Ward, for which her maternal grandmother, Ann Horrocks, had traded a yoke of oxen and a wagon that had brought her and her three small daughters to "The Valley" after she had buried her husband and their only son in shallow Kansas graves. From a Scotch father, Charles Livingston, Priscilla inherited a strong physique, rare courage, and a sense of justice and fair play; from an English mother, Ellen Horrocks, energy, thrift, an orderly mind, imagination, and executive ability. Graduating from high school at Page 518 sixteen, she took stenography at a business college, and at once got a job in a law office. Here she met, and later married, Frank Evans—a man who was to become legal advisor to the American Farm Bureau, a member of Hoover's Farm Board, president of the Eastern States Mission, and the author of a book— The Law of Cooperative Marketing. Mrs. Evans aided in the preparation of this volume. During those intense days of World War I, Mrs. Evans managed the women's group of the Convalescent House at the Walter Reed Hospital. She had charge of sixty volunteer women. In this service, the "Grey Ladies" of the Red Cross had its beginning, and Mrs. Evans was the first woman to don the grey uniform of that unit of the Red Cross. After being married twenty years, she began the study of law at the University of Utah, from which institution she took her degree, Bachelor of Laws. Part of the work for this degree, however, had been done at Northwestern University. She is a member of the Utah State Bar, and could practice law if she chose. Among the honors she has _te- - ceived may be named the following: director, and later treasurer, of the Neighborhood House in Salt Lake City; director of the Community Chest Board; chairman, for several terms, of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the Red Cross; chairman of the National Convention of the American Red Cross in Washington PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS (the only time this honor had ever been given to a woman ); corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women, an office which she still retains at the request of the other officers; president of the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mis- 519 honor she has received, the home is her chief interest. Mrs. Evans has always been active in Church organizations. While her chief religious interest has been the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, where she PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS sion; and guest speaker at various conventions held by the Farm Bureau, notably in Faneuil Hall in Boston, in Pasadena, and in Chicago. Few women among us have had such wide and varied intellectual contacts. Yet in spite of all the public served at different times as ward president and stake worker, she has also been an officer in the Primary Association. In addition to serving as Relief Society president of the Eastern States Mission, she has also served Relief Society as theology 520 class leader in the Washington Branch in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Evans was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board, June 18, 1941. VERY person has a_tap-root quality, to which whatever he does may be referred to as a source. Mrs. Evans' tap-root quality is her intense love of folks. All her life she has been fond of music. She has sung in choirs and played the organ in ward religious services. Choral singing gives her great satisfaction. The divine art is essentially an art to give pleasure to others. This is particularly true of group singing. Law has also held her interest—and law has to do mostly with human beings, especially human beings in trouble. And surely the organizations to which Mrs. Evans has belonged concern themselves primarily with men and women in distress. It is this deep feeling for others that attracts people to her, as a magnet draws filings. All her life long young people have come to her for advice. They tell her things they 

 

 would not confide even to their mothers. With her they find sympathy, understanding, fellow feeling no matter what their age, as well as guidance and direction. Mrs. Evans never reads an address. That is one reason why an audience listens entranced to what she has to say. But she prepares it as thoroughly as a lawyer does a case involving his future reputation. When, therefore, she gets up to talk, she knows where she is to begin, how she is to go on, and at what point she will conclude, even to the phrasing. She believes with all her mind and heart in whatever cause she takes up. There is no half-hearted espousal in her efforts. This gives convincingness to what she says. Her style is fluid, earnest. She means you. That is one of the reasons why so many who listen to her go away saying, "I have never heard anything so stirring!" Priscilla Livingston Evans is what the late Professor William James used to call "one of the competent ones" of a generation.