lNlisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 2 (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) O MY FATHER, THOU THAT DWELLEST O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! When shall I regain 'Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside; In my first primeval childhood Was I nurtured near Thy side? For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet ofttimes a secret something Whispered, "You're a stranger here'; And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere. I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? All you sent me forth to do, os With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. HIS poem, you will find, is very different from that which we considered in our last lesson. It is less imaginative and more doctrinal. It is, however, a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints everywhere, especially at funerals. This is because —Eliza R. Snow. Of the idea it expresses of the closeness of our relationship to God. ELIZA ROXEY SNOW, like Parley P. Pratt, came of a long line of American ancestors. She was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, BirkPage 5/9 Then, at length, when I've completed. 580 shire County, Massachusetts. 'Two years later the Snows moved to Mantua, Portage County, Ohio. Before the family embraced Mormonism they were Baptists, and their home was the gathering place of many intellectual persons thereabouts. It was in this religious and cultural atmosphere that Eliza, with her brother Lorenzo, was reared. It seems that the mother and one of her daughters were the first of the family to join the Latter-day Saint Church. By this time the Saints were gathering to Kirtland, in Ohio, and to Zion, in Missouri. In 1835, when she was thirty-one years of age, Eliza, after carrying on her own investigations, changed her residence to Kirtland, and here she met the Prophet and was baptized. From then on until her death at an advanced age she shared the joys and sorrows of her people—in Ohio, in Missouri, in Illinois, and in Utah. At Kirtland and Nauvoo she taught school. She was the first general secretary of the Relief Society, which was organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. In Utah, "she held the position of president of all the women's organizations rather more by common consent than appointment until 1880 when President John Taylor segregated the different societies and appointed and set her apart as president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she filled until her death." (Relief Society Handbook, page 114.) Sister Snow traveled extensively, not only in the United States, but in Europe and the near East as well. In 1872 she made a special trip to Palestine, and visited such nations as Egypt, Greece, Italy, Germany, France, and England. It was on 

 

 this tour that she presented a copy of the Book of Mormon to Queen Victoria of England, who received it very graciously. ITH Sister Snow literary work _ was a sort of vocation, though she did not earn her living at it. She wrote prose as well as poetry, but verse was her chief form of literary expression and the form in which she excelled. One of her prose works was a history of the Snow family, with particular attention to her brother Lorenzo's life, for he not only became one of the Twelve Apostles, but also the fifth President of the Church. She produced songs, hymns, and nartative verse. At least eighteen of her poems were set to music, mostly by our own composers. With the exception of Parley P. Pratt and William W. Phelps, of whom we shall speak in another lesson, Eliza R. Snow has the greatest number of compositions in our new hymn book. It is not difficult to give a heading to each of the four stanzas of "O My Father." 'The first states the fact of our pre-earth life; the second suggests the reason for earth life; the third tells how we came to know the meaning of the word "Father" as applied to God, with a hint of a heavenly mother, too; and the last expresses a yearning for a reunion with the heavenly parents after death. THE idea of our relationship to God is the heart of revealed religion. Everything, in one way or another, stems from this relationship. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77, verse 2, we are informed LESSON DEPARTMENT that the spirit of man is "in the likeness of his person." This fact comes to us through the "Key of Knowledge" spoken of in the hymn—the "Key" restored by our modern prophet, for the Bible tells almost nothing about the pre-existence of man. And the idea of a "Mother" in heaven was, so far as we know, never thought of, even by those who believed God to be our Father. The doctrine elevates womankind to a plane beyond anything conceived before. This hymn teaches that God is the Father of our spirits. The thought of a heavenly Father implies - the thought of a heavenly Mother. This is a fundamental conception in our religion. OUR spirits, born of heavenly parents, lived in a world of spirits before they were born on the earth of earthly parents. How long they lived there, we do not know. But they lived there long enough, as President Young once suggested, to learn to know the Lord and their elder brother, Jesus Christ. And they lived there long enough, too, to approve the "everlasting covenant" that was to redeem us all from death and sin. There was "a wise and glorious purpose," the hymn teaches, in the spirits coming to earth. There was a reason, also, why the "recollection" of our "former friends and birth" should have been "withheld" from us. The purpose was, as we know from other sources of divine information, that we might take upon ourselves bodies of flesh and blood. This was one of the steps necessary to exaltation in the presence of our parents in heaven. It is the shutting off of these "recollections" that 581 makes us feel that we are "wanderers from a more exalted sphere" and that we are "strangers here." Jesus taught his disciples, in the sample prayer which we call the "Lord's Prayer," that God is our Father, but he did not tell them why or how this was so. 'This we have come to know through modern revelation. And modern revelation, too, informs us that "I've a mother there." Eliza R. Snow knew the Prophet Joseph Smith intimately, for she lived in his home both in Kirtland and in Nauvoo. She probably learned much of what is in this poem from him. We live here in mortality for but a short time—short, that*is, as compared to our life before and after this—and then, after a period in a disembodied state, we will be raised to immortality. But will we "dwell with" our heavenly parents again with their "approbation"? That depends on how we have lived here. If we have accepted again the "new and everlasting covenant," and if we have tried to live according to its teachings, then we may become citizens of the Celestial Kingdom. In that event we shall have the necessary "approbation" and "dwell" in the presence of God forever. Such is the theology of "O My Father." Questions 1. Select some lines in this poem that appeal to you and then memorize them. 2. Give the main facts in the life of Eliza R. Snow as they are told here, with such other facts as you may be able to get elsewhere. 3. A bit of writing often reveals the character of its author. Can you tell anything about Sister Snow from studying this hymn? What sort of things was she interested in? Was she serious minded or 582 otherwise? Give your reasons. Her view of life as revealed here? 4. Tell what you know, from any source, about (a) the pre-earth world; (b) the What was 

 

 purpose in our coming here; (c) the conditions on which we may "dwell" with God in the next life. SE ERRATUM N the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940, page 857, in the lesson on Latter-day Saint Church History is found the following statement: "For measuring distance in crossing the plains, a convert, William Clayton, had made an instrument called the roadometer." We wish to correct this statement, for in William Clayton's Journal, under date of May 11, 1847, is recorded: "Brother Appleton Harmon is working at the machinery for the wagon, to tell the distance we travel, and expects to have it in operation tomorrow." On May 12th is this entry: "Brother A. Harmon has completed the machinery on the wagon so far that I shall only have to count the number of miles instead of the revolution of the wagon wheel." On May 16th, he continues: "About noon today Brother Appleton Harmon completed the machinery on the wagon called a 'troadometer' by adding a wheel to revolve once in ten miles, showing each mile and also each quarter mile we travel, and then casing the whole over so as to secure it from the weather." (See also Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 379, second paragraph.