"Song Passes Not Away" Carlton Culmsee "FOR SALE — Collection of choice paintings by the hundred best artists of the Church. Must be sold as a unit, but is priced so that the first bidder can buy it." This advertisement is an obvious fable. Yet it is pleasant to imagine the cultural delight which would ~ come to the beneficiary of this miracle of marketing. Imagine her to be some housewife in a remote village or on a lonely farm. Spared the necessity of traveling to some distant gallery for a rare but fatiguing aesthetic orgy before the collection, she could bring out her treasures a few at a time and watch them disclose new facets of beauty as she learned to love them. One cannot help wishing that families in every city and hamlet of the Church could enjoy the leavening influences of such a collection. This figment of fancy has been created to increase appreciation for the fact that the idea, impossible as it is in connection with original paintings, can be realized in another art with comparative ease. Through the democratic inexpensiveness of printing, the productions of the leading poets of the Church or of the state can be brought together in a "pocket art gallery" cheap enough for anyone to possess. Such a collection of emotional and spiritual experiences shaped into forms of melodious beauty may justify its existence in many ways. Its values begin to be realized long before its pages begin falling from the press. As an outlet for versifiers in an age offering them relatively few dignified channels of expression, it helps stimulate them to creative activity. Merely to announce the decision to publish a representative collection of verse is enough to cause some poetic seeds to germinate. Not only that. Under the new stimulus some writers try to conceive and express broader conceptions, greater ideals. Writing to please the editor of Light-housekeeping Journal or Kitchen and Garden Magazine, 'the poet tends to fashion bits of tender sensuousness on such themes as "pansy faces nodding good morning to me" and "sun-gold filtering through the window curtains above my sink." Buta church or state or national anthology may lead her to think in terms of the surges of a great people, vague but powerful yearnings and upward reachings. Improvement of technique also may result. There is a permanence and a finality about an anthology that leads some to do extra polishing. Also, afraid of being omitted, the humbler or less practiced writers seek criticism and technical assistance. Many of them study books of prosody and some even enroll in verse-writing courses. The editors of the anthology usually find time to offer suggestions for the improvement of poems. Scanning the verse as it comes out of the mail, the editors become sharply conscious of characteristic errors or deficiencies, and they eagerly seize opportunities to uproot poetic weeds. WITH little desire to be personal but with the aim of illustrating Page 52] 522 this point, I wish to tell one result of my recent efforts to gather and polish verse for the second volume of Utah Sings. Certain defects appeared so frequently that, half in irritation and half in fun, I satirized them in doggerel verses which have proved useful to reinforce criticisms. If you do not mind I shall repeat them here, justifying myself by recalling that the Relief Society is preparing an anthology of poetry and that all readers of this article likely desire to improve their ability either to write - or to appreciate verse. 'This first one is entitled: THE AGONY OF DISLOCATION Put not your thoughts upon the rack And turn them outside in And stretch their sinews till they crack And make them burst their skin. Thou shalt not write of truth sublime And dislocate the noun Merely to make an easy rhyme— Stamp the temptation down When you would sing of love divine And mountains grand and laughter gay And sugar sweet and satin fine And. Sweethearts true and fog so gray. I urge you, poets—draw the line At these devices of another day. THE APOSTROPHE CATASTROPHE The poets of a bygone time, Achieved effects in patterned rhyme By shooting holes in sundry words As hunters cripple winging birds. They disembowelled words like never, Over, beneath, amid, and ever. Instead of words that lilt and sing They gave us many a broken thing, Like e'er, whene'er, and ne'er and o'er, And 'tis and 'mid and dozens more. Let's use contractions of our own Unless they lower the poem's tone. In certain verse, to be colloquial Is absolutely right and okeal. Won't, don't, can't, shan't are all permissible, But 'twas and 'twere are only hissable. Don't cut your words to bits like these With scalpels of apostrophes. 

 

 THE WEARINESS OF WORDS The man with the hoe Had a very long row; The serf and the coolie Would have risen unruly If fatigue hadn't harried them And bowed them and buried them. But we moderns have words that are weary as they From carrying burdens an age and a day. For example (unless there's been perfidy lately), The pines in the amateur poem are stately; If the breezes are blowing, those pine trees are sighing, And embers, sad embers, forever are dying. The dawns are all rosy, the brooks have to babble, And affection is tender to poets who dabble. The maiden's face shines, yet her nose is not greasy. 'Round the silvery moon the clouds are all fleecy. These words were all splendid when vivid and new, But they're tired—let them rest for an aeon or two! LUSTRELESS GENERALITIES The poet's task is double-fold; It's only half enough to hold Fierce passion and enthusiasm; They're vital—but everybody has 'em. The bard must lift his reader up— Give him deep draughts from the same cu The poet drank from when desire Or anger coursed his veins like fire. You can't use trite banalities And tasteless generalities. Avoid such blank-check words as wonderful, Magnificent and beautiful, Entrancing, fair and awe-inspiring— Such ashes are not meant for firing The tinder of your reader's mind. They leave him cold and deaf and blind. Don't rest with saying a thing is so; Use every strength of art to show What made the terror or the awe, The beauty or the power you saw. This is the poet's agony: The strife to make the readers see And feel as keenly, vividly As he did, in the burning rise Of grief, affection, or surprise. SONG PASSESS NOT AWAY Forgive me for devoting much space to these deficiencies. After all, although subtle artistry is important, sincerity of emotion and large, high conceptions often lift a piece of writing above mere technical trifles. It is such honesty and largeness of vision that we poets should seek. The reason we should seek them is that we owe a heavy obligation to our readers. Poets may no longer be what Shelley called them, "The unacknowledged legislators of the. World," and the word "poet" is no longer synonymous with "prophet." Yet we employ devices and powers intended to invest words with the greatest possible beauty and _persuasiveness, and so we must fuse powerful expression with high thought. Not that every poem must be either an epic or a sermon; but even a few lines can voice something of an inarticulate longing of a people or can help give form to vague aspirations or half-seen achievements. And an anthology that is serious in purpose tends, I believe, to make poets a little more conscious of their debt for special gifts they have received. There are, of course, anthologies and anthologies. There is the "pay as you enter" bus which may carry real poems but which almost certainly groans under a load of mediocre verse—or worse. For, being published for a profit only, it throws open its covers to anyone who has been placed on a "sucker list" for thymesters and has some naive dollars to spend. Such anthologies received an impetus from the depression. Some printing houses were willing to gamble on the idea because it promised to help them keep their organizations together and 523 their presses turning. Therefore, the commercial anthology racket has borne some rather wormy fruit, and most of it is, to say the least, exceedingly uneven in quality. But there is a place for the nonprofit anthology which is edited with discrimination and courage born of a desire to further some worthy end. An anthology such as the Relief Society proposes can satisfy a number of needs. It can be, for example, a monument celebrating the splendid ideals and attainments of the Society far more effectively than a marble shaft can do. "Song passes not away," Sir William Watson declared long ago. In a real sense, also, this anthology can be a history of the development of the organization; not a factual chronicle, true, but a record of the more important strivings of the spirit. Moreover, it can be a means of fostering and nourishing the aims and ideals of the Society. During the year of the Relief Society centennial and in years to come it can furnish readings appropriate for the family half-circle at the fireplace, for religious services, and for historical and other programs. It cannot help but reflect movements of emotion and thought, hopes and goals, defeats and _victories. The first state anthology, Utah Sings, Volume I, mirrored currents that give Utah writings its bright glints of idealism and high desire. Also it revealed new currents of science, experimentation in art and in life; new beauties and uglinesses, doubt and faith. It is good to see trends as reflected by groups of sensitive artists and to meditate on what they may mean for the future. It is good to have the beauty into 524 which the poets mold crude experience. If the poets and the editors of anthologies deal frankly with themselves and honestly with their readers, if they try incessantly to develop their art into a flexible but strong instrument, if they drink at the flow of vital ideas from past and present, and finally if they try to create beauty out of the best emotion and 

 

 thought that is in them, they must contribute worthily to our culture. Wrought earnestly and yet imaginatively, an anthology can bring to any home—city apartment or village cottage or wind-shaken ranchhouse —a gallery of rich emotional and spiritual experiences, forms of rhythmical beauty that grownups will enjoy and youngsters carry away in minds formed to hold them.