Ee Death of Sarah Mm MeLelland THE death of Sarah M. McLelland, for twenty-four years a member of the Relief Society  , June 28, 1941. Sister McLelland was the daughter of 'Thomas and Elizabeth M. McLelland, faithful Latter-day Saints who received the Gospel-in Scotland in 1841. Following the splendid example of her parents, Sarah McLelland was devoted to the Gospel and spent her life in active service to the Church. Endowed with many talents and great energy, she spent both in furthering the great latter-day work. She began her Church service as a Sunday School worker in the first Farmer's Ward Sunday School in 1876, and from that time on she held positions of responsibility and leadership in the Church. In 1909-10 she fulfilled a mission in the Central States and in 1911 did missionary work on Temple Square. She was called to the Relief Society General Board May 12, 1911. At the time of her call, she was president of the Granite Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. As a member of the Re. Lief Society General Board, Sister McLelland met with willingness and efficiency the many responsibilities incumbent upon her as a Board member. She served on committees, visited the stakes, and accepted many special assignments. In 1913, in company with President Emmeline B. Wells, she attended the National Council of Women held in New York, and again in 1918 she attended the meetings held in St. Louis, in company with Julina Smith and Amy Brown Lyman. Feeling that her health would no longer permit her to fulfill the arduous duties of a member of the Relief Society General Board, Sister McLelland in 1935 requested to be relieved of this responsibility. | Her request was granted in April of that year. Her interest in the work of the Board, however, was pronounced until the time of her death. Sister McLelland has set a worthy example in her life of love and service. She has written an enviable record in the history of Relief Society. 'The General Board acknowledges her service and is grateful for her life. Vlo TO THE FIELD Cooperation Urged in Campaign for Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco OR some years past there has been functioning in the Church a General Campaign Committee, with Elder Joseph F. Merrill of the Council of the Twelve as chairman, and with each of the following groups represented: the Presiding Bishopric, the Church Department of Education, and each of the auxillary general boards. In each of the stakes of the Church is a similar committee, appointed by the stake presidency. These committees are organized to put forth concerted efforts to help curtail the increasing consumption of liquor and tobacco. The Relief Society regards it a privilege to be represented on these committees, to be called by the Priesthood into counsel, to give aid, and to lend influence to a cause so vital and far-reaching. 'The General Board appreciates all that Relief Society officers, committee members, and visiting teachers have done in the interest of this cause. It is especially grateful to the visiting teachers for their willingness to assist in the distribution of the many thousands of pamphlets sent to the stakes. All members of the Relief Society are urged to take a personal interest in these splendid publications and to encourage all members of their families to read and discuss them as family groups. It would be well to keep them on file for future reference for the younger members of the family. Mothers in the Church are urged Page 542 to become acquainted with the various activities of the Priesthood, auxiliary organizations, and the Church Department of Education with regard to the non-use of alcohol and tobacco. They should be interested and cooperative, that the children of the Church may gain the benefits and blessings intended for them. Space will not permit us to present a detailed account of these activities, but mothers may become acquainted with them through the local organizations and committees. 'They are broad in scope and are so planned as to interest our children and at the same time teach them the benefits that come. From clean living; for example, in the Primary program is included something specific for the Blazer Boy, the Trekker, and the Guide, whereby they may learn the importance of clean living. A nine-year-old boy, during the year he is a Blazer, starts the "health trail" and in a very unique way meets the "Vitamins." The ten-year-old Trekker continues on. He finds added experiences along this trail of health, and finally learns what the "Word of Wisdom" says about foods. The eleven-year-old follows along the "Guide" trails and learns to desire a strong, healthy body. To obtain it he is willing to follow the health rules given by our Father in Heaven. Therefore, a Guide will not use tobacco; he will not take a drink that contains alcohol.