Analyze them as to content. If there are terms you do not understand, try to find the meaning of them. (Sometimes sales clerks can offer help.) LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Think about and list information that you would like to find on a piece of material when buying it. Because of the lack of available space in the Relief Society Magazine, the General 569 Board has sent to each stake a list of refences in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders. A, Bl erate Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 2 Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing it, and Mediums of Expression (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) "The essence of humor is human kindliness. It is this element in humor, which has grown from a primitive beginning to higher forms, which lends to humor the character of a leading factor in human progress and which is destined still to enhance its utility to mankind."—Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics: 1. Brief summary of last lesson 2. What humor is 3. Principles governing humor 4. Words as a medium of humor Review of Previous Lesson In the first lesson of this course the relationship between literature and life was presented, and the fact was pointed out that since literature is a record of life as it is and a projection of life as we would like to have it, it has many phases and many values. Humor is an important factor in life; hence, it is significant in the field of literature. Reasons such as the following were presented to show why it is desirable for Relief Society members to study humor in their literature course this year: 1. A varied program of study is desirable for Relief Society members, and since serious literature has been considered for a long time, a change is thought advisable. 2. We are living in a time. When we need relief from tension caused by conditions and events in the world today. 3. A study of humor should serve to help relieve that tension and aid in the cultivation of a desirable sense of humor. 4. Humor is a fundamental part of literature and as such should have a place in any educational program. What Humor Is Humor is an elusive word, difficult to define. Originally it meant wetness, and some of that original meaning still survives in such words as humidity and humid. It early had a special meaning in relation to health and medicine; the well-being of an individual was thought to depend upon the liquids or humors flowing through the body. A man's health and vitality, it was believed, depended upon the proper distribution and the natural activities of these fluids. If all went well, a man was in "good humor." If a disease attacked him, he was in "ill-humor" or "out of humor." It was the work 570 of the doctor to keep people in "good humor." In time, the humors were believed to govern the complexion and the disposition as well as the health of the individual. If a man had an abundance of blood he had a florid complexion and a sanguine disposition. (Sanguine early meant red like blood, and we still use the term sanguine to describe a person of cheerful disposition, just as we use phlegmatic or bilious to designate certain types. ) Literature of the Middle Ages reflects this old meaning of the word humor. Chaucer has the hen, Perotelete, say, in substance, to her husband, Chaunticleer, "Certainly, this dream which you have had tonight came of too much blood which causes folks to fear in their dreams red flames and great beasts that will bite them; just as the humor of melancholy (black bile) causes many men to cry out in their sleep for fear that black bears and bulls will hurt them or that black devils will take them. Of other humors I could tell you that work woe in man." Based upon this old theory, Ben Jonson in the seventeenth century wrote two social satires which he called, respectively, "Everyman in His Humor," and "Everyman out of His Humor." In time the word shifted to mean caprice. So Shakespeare uses it in "The Merchant of Venice." Shylock says, "Why I rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive 3000 ducats? I'll not answer that, but say it is my humor." And so gradually the word came to signify an incongruity which caused laughter as it does today. There are many types of humor, 

 

 ranging from grotesque arrangements of sounds or words to distorted pictures, parodies, burlesques, and so on. Sometimes the humor lies in the situation, as in many of Shakespeare's comedies. An example is found in "The Merry Wives of Windsor." In one scene Falstaff hides in the hamper of soiled clothes from the husband of the woman he is visiting, and is carried away to the laundry. There is also humor in character, frequently arising from incongruous traits in a person, such as absentmindedness in the professor who has his mind so much occupied on abstract thoughts that he walks off with his host's umbrella or, to mention an exaggerated story, pours syrup on his head and scratches his hot cake. Principles Governing Humor | Savages laugh and exult when they destroy their enemies. Scientists declare that humor and laughter had their first expression in the exultation of primitive man over his vanquished foe. Children enjoy the humor of destruction. A broken object often amuses them. Even civilized adults laugh over slapstick comedy based on destruction, such as breaking dishes or furniture. The destruction which provokes mirth is not limited to inanimate objects. When a child, for instance, hears how the cat in Puss in Boots swallows the ogre, he is delighted. He laughs, too, when the selfish wolf in the Three Little Pigs is tricked into the boiling kettle. In this response, the child represents the primitive stage in man's development. In "The Cremation of Sam McGee," Robert W. Service employs this LESSON DEPARTMENT primitive appeal of destruction. In addition, the surprise ending is used —another source of humor. A different theory recognized by early writers is that humor rests on our enjoyment of the discomfort of others mixed with satisfaction that the discomfort is not our own. This source of amusement is seen in comic movies, in newspaper Cartoons, in performances of circus clowns. We can all recall humorous stories and plays of this nature, stories of hen-pecked husbands, of the fat woman on roller skates, of the absent-minded professor. We have laughed at the discomforts of each. Mention has already been made of Shakespeare's "The Merry Wives of Windsor" with its humor of this type. Aristophanes' "The Frogs" gives another classical example in the scene where the master insists on changing costumes with his slave and then is pommeled about to the delight of the servant. This same theory also explains the sense of humor evidenced by the "practical joker." He is highly amused to see another the victim of a ludicrous situation. It might be well, however, if this type of individual would stop to consider whether the situation would appear equally laughable were he the butt of the joke instead of being the perpetrator and amused onlooker. The field of humor from which we may draw is so extensive that it is never necessary to resort to the type of joke which gains its humor as the result of the wounded feelings of another. This is a lesson that children might well be taught. They can be cruel in their thoughtlessness at times. On the other hand, let us not be super-sensitive, but be able 571 to appreciate a harmless joke even though it be on ourselves. The disappointment theory is an explanation of another principle of humor. In this there is a carefully built-up expectation which is frustrated in the end. "The One-Hoss Shay," by Oliver Wendell Holmes, builds up the idea that the shay is going to last forever. The humor rests upon the disappointment which comes when it falls to pieces all at once. Humor is so versatile, appearing in so many shapes, so many garbs, it is so differently seen by different eyes, and judgments so vary that it is difficult to classify; for instance, try to. Classify the following from Mark 'Twain's Innocents Abroad. He tells about a guide in Genoa and Rome. "Our guide said, 'Come wis me, genteelmen—Come! I show you ze letter writing by Christopher Colombo! Ze great Christopher Colombo! He write it himself.' "The doctor laid the document down. 'Why, I've seen boys in American cities only fourteen years old who could write better than that.' "But zis is ze great Christo....' ""T don't care who it is. It is the worst writing I ever saw. We are not fools, by a good deal. If you've got any specimens of penmanship of real merit, trot them out! And if you haven't, drive on!'" Humor has been compared to Proteus, the Greek deity of the water, who could change his form at will. Sometimes humor lies in an apt illusion to a known story or in a pat application of a trivial saying or in the manufacture of an opposite tale. Sometimes, as Leacock points out, "it hides in a sly question or a pert 572 answer or an unusual reason or shrewd intimation. It resides, too, in such figures of speech as irony, hyperbole, metaphor, in imitative looks and gestures. Often we cannot truly tell from where it springs." A writer of three hundred years ago says, "Its ways are unaccountable and inexplicable, being answerable to the numberless ravings of fancy and windings of language. It is, in short, a manner of speaking out of the simple and plain way... Which affecteth and amuseth the fancy... It also procureth delight by gratifying curiosity with its rareness... By diverting the mind from its road of serious thoughts; by instilling gaiety and airiness of spirit... And by seasoning matter otherwise distasteful or insipid with an unusual and thence a grateful tang." Words as a Medium of Humor The earliest humor was in action rather than in words—in pantomimes, facial expressions, bodily contortions. We find it next in drawings and later in words. Words used in an unexpected or incongruous manner cause laughter. Sometimes humor lies in the misspelling of words. So we have unintentional humor. A student writer made a humorous "tragedy" out of a misspelled word. He wrote: "One night while my friend and I were at Yellowstone, we returned to our camp to discover that bears had been there. They had scattered our vitals (victuals) all over the place." Some writers consciously use misspelling to produce the humorous effect desired. This type of humor was widespread in early American literature. Mark Twain employed it in his beginning attempts to be funny, 

 

 though he soon discarded it for more dignified and effective methods. Josh Billings and Artemus Ward maintained this medium throughout their writing careers. Lincoln read to his cabinet one of his favorite passages from Artemus Ward's "The High-handed Outrage at Utica," before he showed them his Emancipation Proclamation. The quotation began: "In the Faul of 1856, I showed my show in Utiky, a trooly grate sitty in the State of New York. The people gave me a cordyal recepshun. 'The press was loud in her prases." Bad grammar is another phase of this medium. In it is shown the exact transcription of what people do say instead of what they should say according to good usage. 'There are wrong tenses, case forms, diction and so on. Of this type of humor Ring W. Lardner was a perfect master. Finley Peter Dunne in his stories about Mr. Dooley combines this with misspelling. "Mr. Dooley on Golf" begins: ""An what's this game in goluf like, I dunnaw... Ye're a good deal in a spoort, Jawnny! Did ye iver thry it?' ""No... I used to roll a hoop onct upon a time, but I'm out of condition now.': "Tt ain't like baseball... An' it ain't like lawn tennis, an' it ain't like forty-five, an' it ain't like canvasback duck or anny other game ye know,' said Mr. Dooley." There are many other means of creating humor out of words. Some of them are the overstatements in hyperboles much found in Mark Twain's Innocents Abroad and in the work of Bill Nye who, for instance, says, "There must be at least 5,000,000,000 rats in the United LESSON DEPARTMENT States; of course, I'm speaking only from memory." Here there is not only exaggeration, but the incongruity of "speaking from memory" about so many rats. Litotes, or understatement, is much used by English writers and Orientals. The humor of E. P. Wodehouse has been characterized as "sustained understatement." James M. Barrie employed this medium in some of his stories; for example, "My Lady Nicotine." Other tricks with words are used effectively by Robert Benchley and Stephen Leacock; for instance, the latter said: "The rejected lover in a wild frenzy of emotion leaped upon his horse and rode away in all directions." Similar to these verbal incongtuities is the following tantalizing quatrain by A. A. Milne: "Yesterday upon the stair, I saw a man who wasn't there; He wasn't there again today. I wish the fool would stay away!" Dickens often employs misuse of words to achieve humor, as does O. Henry, of whom it has been said that one may see in his stories a "perfect glory and riot of verbal forms; no one ever used language as he did. He threw words around in a careless way that has never been equalled or approached." "Humor is the kindly contempla- 573 tion of the incongruities of life and the artistic expression thereof." Problems and Projects 1. Assign such stories as the following to illustrate words as a medium of humor: "Grandma Keeler Gets Grandpa Ready for Sunday School," by Sarah P. Greene; "Mr. Dooley on Reform Candidates," by Finley Peter Dunne; "The Evidence in the Case of Smith vs. Jones," by S. L. Clemens; "Hezekiah Bedott's Opinion," by Frances M. Wicher; "The Real Diary of a Real Boy," by H. A. Shute. (These stories are all in Wit and Humor of America, by Marshall Wilder. ) z. Ask for volunteers to give brief reviews of favorite humorous stories or poems. 3. Give a sketch of the life of Artemus Ward, Bill Nye or Josh Billings, explaining the type of humor each writer employed. 4. Is there some person in your community known for his or her quaint or witty manner of telling things? Give illustrations of this local humor; point out the contribution of such a person to the community. 5. Ask the members to bring in different types of humor and analyze them. Supplementary Readings The Enjoyment of Laughter, Max Eastman. Sixty Years of American Humor, J. L. French. Ue Laughter Library, J. H. Johnson, et al. In Pursuit of Laughter, Agnes Repplier. Written Humor, A, A. Thompson. An Essay of Laughter, James Sully. Fun—Ancient and Modern, Dr. Maurice Davies. Oe Se pessimism, worry and despair, we must depend upon the sun within ourselves.... He who carries his sunshine with him on the journey of life has learned the mastersecret of triumphant living."—Wéilferd A. Peterson.