Aunt Em And The Gathering Of The Wheat Rosannah C. Irvine N: the year 1870 woman's suffrage came into effect in Utah. Soon after that the idea began to take form that as long as women had the vote they should also have a "voice" by which they might express their opinions. Therefore, in 1872 the Woman's Exponent came into being. Sister Emmeline B. Wells early became associated editorially with this publication, becoming associate editor in 1875 and editor in 1876. Although there are many Relief Society women today who did not know Sister Wells personally, "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, is well known to all for the splendid work she did for the Society and for the Church in her long years of activity. The old saying that precious things are wrapped in small packages applies to this dear little soul. She was tiny and fragile as a rare bit of china, but with a mentality and an indomitable will that beggars description. One day while Sister Wells was working at her desk in the office of the Woman's Exponent, which was located in a little building on the corner of South Temple and State streets on the site now occupied by the Alta Club, Brother George Reynolds came to her with a message from President Young. He said, "Sister Wells, Brother Brigham ~ wants to see you at his office alone." You may be able to imagine Sister Wells' feelings. At that time, Eliza R. Snow presided over all the women's organizations of the Church. Aunt Em assisted with the secretarial work. Brother Reynolds was emphatic that the President wanted to see Sister Wells alone. Sister Wells at that time, September, 1876, probably lacked some of the assurance that she later gained through her many years of experience. But if she had fears, she also had courage. She went to see the President. Her wonder and perturbation were not lessened when President Young, without preliminaries, said, "Sister Emmeline, I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain.... I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon the subject." The President said that the brethren had not been doing their duty as they had been advised to do; that he had been riding around through the valleys and had seen their neglect. The men of the Church had been constantly warned to have on hand enough Page 51] 512 wheat and flour to sustain not only their own families but also one extra family for at least two years. He said that the day was coming when the people of the earth by the thousands would come to Zion to be fed; that there would be famine in the world and preparation must be made for that emergency. Aunt Em, as all other faithful Saints, yielded unquestioning obedience to the word of the Prophet of the Lord. She believed implicitly in his right and power to speak with inspiration. She was overwhelmed with the magnitude of the mission, but she didn't doubt for an instant the divinity of the call. She went at once to consult Sister Snow in her apartment in the Lion House. The President's office was at that time, as for many years after, in the building located between the Beehive House and the Lion House. Aunt Em told Sister Snow of the interview with President Young, and added, "Sister Eliza, you have a great work to do." Sister Snow exclaimed in her short, brusque way, "Indeed, it's not my work. It's your work. If Brother Brigham had wanted me to do it, he would have sent for me." While Aunt Em didn't doubt for an instant the inspiration of the President, the call was so sudden and so unusual that she felt as if she could not attempt it without counsel and encouragement. So she went next to her husband, Daniel H. Wells, « and told him about the call and asked him to write the editorial for her. He refused, saying, as Sister Snow had said, that it was her work, not his. He did agree, however, to go with her to the President when she was prepared to submit the editorial to Brother Brigham for his 

 

 approval. The editorial when written was submitted to President Young who added one paragraph for emphasis, in which he said, "The brethren are to assist them [the sisters] in carrying out this enterprise, both for the building of the storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill them to preserve for future need." The editorial was published in the Woman's Exponent, October 15, | 1876. It was the fulfillment of responsibilities such as this that developed the ability and character of this successful woman. A! A meeting held November 11, 1876, the Central Grain Committee was formed. By motion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and the unanimous vote of those assembled, Sister Wells was appointed chairman. She selected Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith as her assistants. 'Throughout the Church subcommittees were formed. Immediate action was taken toward getting grain and learning the best methods of caring for it. In the year 1877, the year of the death of President Young, the sisters not only bought wheat and exchanged the labor of their hands for grain, but after the harvesting went into the fields in large parties and gleaned. In those days, the method of harvesting wheat was very different from the methods used in this mechanical age. There were only a few mowing machines; there were many more scythes. Gleaning was more productive, no doubt, than it would be today. Though primitive, it must have been a beautiful picture, the women and children following after the sturdy reapers as they mowed down row after row of the golden, waving AUNT EM AND THE GATHERING OF THE WHEAT grain. One recalls the story of the ancient days when Ruth gleaned in the fields of Boaz. And he, seeing her so young and beautiful following the reapers, told his young men to be kind to her, and to "let fall some of the handfuls of purpose for her and leave them that she may glean them, and rebuke her not." And also following the advice of Boaz to his helpers, our own men were kind to our women. Often they shook their bundles to add to the scanty store, and in other ways showed their interest in fulfilling the purpose of the Prophet. Following the counsel of the President, granaries were built throughout the Church for the storing of the wheat, and it was not long before there was a great supply of grain to be stored. In the beginning grain-saving was designated as a work for all the women of the Church. It, however, gradually became definitely and entirely a Relief Society project. The women, thoroughly in earnest in their desire to succeed in this worthy endeavor, thought of many novel ways, aside from gleaning, of increasing their store. One of the most successful methods was giving "wheat parties.". Tooele was among the first stakes to institute this rare and successful idea. A peck of wheat paid one's admission to the party. In this way many bushels were added to their supply. There were naturally many discouragements in the work in spite of the constant and diligent labor of the girls and women and _ the cooperation of the men. Russia, Canada, and other countries were raising such quantities of wheat that the efforts of the sisters seemed puny. 513 There seemed to be slight necessity for conserving the small gleanings. But the prophecy of the President still persisted in the minds of the women. Brother Brigham had said that the time would come when there would be a call for the wheat. The sisters accepted his word as a mandate, and the work went on. The granaries and elevators were filled. And then came the fulfillment of the prophecy. At the time of World War I, there was a proclamation from the Federal Government that there should be no hoarding of foodstuffs. And we, the Latter-day Saints, were hoarding wheat—hundreds of bushels of that most precious commodity. And there was want in other lands! The Government heard of our stores of grain. Men were sent here to investigate the condition and to demand a compliance with the law. When the matter was explained to. These agents their annoyance changed to wonder and admiration. They were instructed by the Administration to buy all our wheat, paying the regular price for it. This they did; the wheat was not accepted as a gift. By common consent of the ward Relief Societies, and through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, it was decided to deposit the money received from the sale of the wheat in the Presiding Bishop's Office where it would be safe and where it would draw uniform interest. Each year the interest has been sent back to the wards according to their ownership in the fund, and has been used for maternity and child-welfare purposes. In some stakes the wheat interest has been pooled and admin- 514 istered by the stake boards, while in others it has been held and administered by the ward officers. In no case has this money been put to any wrong use. Now after all these years, wheat is once again being stored while there is plenty, against a time of need. Once more the life-saving grain is being gathered and preserved for future emergencies. A portion of the wheat fund is now being used to buy wheat for conservation. HERE is an interesting item which should be added to this story of wheat. When President Woodrow Wilson and his party went through the United States speaking in the interest of the League of Nations, he came to Salt Lake City. Due to the severe strain under which he had been laboring for so long, his health was impaired.. Naturally elaborate entertainment had been planned for him in order that the people might meet him as well as see and hear him in the Tabernacle where he was scheduled to speak. He was met at the station and shown the city. Our own President Grant rode in the carriage with Mr. McAdoo, who said, "Mr. Grant, the President is not well. He doesn't want a lot of attention. He must rest. There is only one thing that he has expressed a desire to do, and that is to see Mrs. Wells." —- President Grant assured him that it could be arranged. President Wilson, who had declined to occupy the President's suite in the Hotel Utah, was domiciled with his entire party on  

 eighth floor, which happened to be the one where ninety-two-year-old Emmeline B. Wells lived. Aunt Em was herself in ill health, but being told of the wish of the President of the United States for an interview with her, she was delighted, and a meeting was arranged to take place between his dinner hour and the time of the assembly in the Tabernacle. Our little lady was arrayed in her most attractive clothes with their dainty accessories of pastel scarves, laces, and tulle bows. She was ready to receive the President of the greatest country in the world. The President and Mrs. Wilson came into the room dressed in their evening finery. Mrs. Wilson had on a gorgeous black gown, with a large plumed picture hat. President Wilson sat down by Aunt Em and held her hand while they talked. "Mrs. Wells," he said, "will you tell me about the wheat?" In her inimitable way she told him the story. When he rose to bid her adieu, he said, "Mrs. Wells, I thank you for permitting me to have this interview. I consider it one of the greatest privileges and honors of my life." Aunt Em didn't consider it as a tribute to herself. She naturally appreciated the personal honor, but the tribute was to her Church. Many Relief Society members have heard Aunt Em say in public meetings, in her quaint way, "I believe that I am the only person in the world who has ever been told by a prophet of the Lord to gather and store wheat for famine—except Joseph in Egypt."