A Chinese Mother Elsie Young Editor's Note: Miss Elsie Young (Kim Yeung), is a Chinese girl, and a very active member of the Church living in Honolulu, T. H. Her early experiences in the Church were very trying because of the conflict between her loyalty to her parents, their pagan practices and beliefs, and her devotion to the strong testimony of the truth which had come to her. Her earnest desire since receiving the truth has been to carry the message to her own people. This desire has been graciously realized in that she is now teaching the Gospel to a Chinese class organized in Honolulu. Her desire now is to introduce and properly interpret her people, their traditions, culture and customs to us in the light of the revealed Gospel of Jesus Christ. ELSIE YOUNG N a modest little home in the city of Honolulu lived Mother Leong, a kind, matronly Chinese woman, with her husband and children. The alarm clock rang at 6:00 a. M., waking the whole family. One after another they went into the bathroom to clean their teeth and wash their faces. In a short while everyone was through except Wingtong, the little grandson who was visiting with his grandmother for a few days and who just hated to brush his teeth. After much coaxing on the part of his grandmother, Wingtong finally brushed his teeth and washed his face very clean. After their morning grooming, the family sat down and ate their breakfast. Laid out on the table were scrambled eggs, canned sausage, boiled string beans and rice. In this home, rice is the staple food instead of potatoes, although bread can be had at any time. For little Wing. Tong there was a bowl of mush, a medium-boiled egg, canned sliced peaches and hot chocolate. After breakfast Kim Chin (Golden Coin), the elder daughter, started for work. Mother Leong asked her to buy some Chinese cabbage, a good-sized mullet fish, some sweet Chinese pickles and two pounds of roast pork. It was 7:30 a. M. Now. Mother Leong's other daughter, Yook Lan (Jade Magnolia), was on her way to high school. Father Leong had already gone to work. Kim Chin arrived at the Oriental Curio Shop at 8:00 a. M. Sharp. All day long she waited on customers, kept the account books of the store and answered 'phone calls. She enjoyed waiting on tourists who seemed so pleased with what they Page 515 516 bought. Some of them would linger and tell her how much they enjoyed the sunny Hawaiian climate and the green trees. At 12:00 noon Kim Chin lunched at a restaurant. Then she went to do the marketing for her mother. She walked along the meat stalls at the market and saw displayed on the counters large halves of pigs roasted to a rich golden brown. She looked them over. They seemed to contain too much fat. She managed to get the butcher to slice her a piece not too fat nor too lean. After that she bought the other items of food. At 1:00 p. M. She was back at the Curio Shop. There were more people to wait on and articles to be packed and mailed. The Shop closed at 5:00 p. M., after a very busy day. IM CHIN walked home and laid all her purchases on the kitchen table. Mother Leong had already cooked the rice. Now she looked at all the packages on the table. "Where is the cabbage?" she asked. "Oh, I forgot to buy it," said her daughter. | "The meal will be very dry without any cabbage. Go out and get some right away," said the mother. In a few minutes Kim Chin returned with some cabbage. She washed the stalks of green cabbage and cut them up to cook. In this home all the food is cut up in convenient pieces so that it can be easily picked up with chopsticks. Within an hour the food was cooked. A pair of chopsticks and a rice bowl were set at each place on the table. Where Wingtong sat was placed a little rice bowl and a spoon. The food was then placed on the table and dinner was ready. 

 

 Mother Leong ordered her little grandson to call everyone to dinner. "Yak fan loh! Yak fan loh!'" yelled little Wingtong, running from room to room. Soon the whole family gathered around the table and partook of the hot home-cooked meal. Suddenly Wingtong looked at his grandma and said, "Ah Poh (Grandma), I. Want a pair of chopsticks, please. I don't want to use my spoon." Soa small pair of red chopsticks was given to Wingtong, and between little chubby fingers he managed to use them quite well. The meal was delicious. 'They had Chinese cabbage, roast pork with soyo sauce, and fried mullet garnished with shredded Chinese sweet pickles and served with soursweet sauce. At the table Father Leong seldom spoke, for it is polite according to Chinese etiquette to remain silent while eating. Mother Leong and the children have adopted the English custom. It is so nice to have the family all together at meal time, and it is such a favorable time for them to chat! English is the language spoken at school and at work, but in order to converse with their parents the two girls have to speak the Chinese language. Yook Lan told her mother what she had done in school, using very poor Chinese in her conversation. Mother Leong, with a frown on her face, looked at her husband and said, "What has come over our children? They cannot even speak in their mother tongue." Father Leong shook his head sadly and said, "It is too much education. They are following the way of the white people. Soon they will forget the language and customs of their own race." A CHINESE MOTHER Kim Chin joined in the argument and said, "Ah Mah (Mother), this is an American country. We use the English language at school and at work. All day long we come in contact with English-speaking people, so we have to speak good English." "I do not object to your using English at school or at work. You must speak English to earn a living, but when you are at home please try to speak good Chinese. You embarrass me before my guests. I hope when you grow up you will marry men of your own race. I forbid you to intermarry. If you do so, your Chinese identity will be lost. Your descendants will not know their ancestral home." Thus spoke Mother Leong to her two daughters. AFTER dinner Mother and Father Leong drank their fragrant Chinese tea, an old custom of ancient China. Yook Lan cleared the table and washed the dishes while the rest of the family gathered in the parlor. Mother Leong kept herself busy sewing a Chinese gown. Kim Chin was busy knitting a sweater, while Father Leong read the Chinese classics. Once in a while he would stop and comment on the wonderful teachings of the great Chinese sage, Koong Fu Tse (Confucius). "Koong Fu Tse was a great teacher!" he would say. "Yes, even the Westerners enjoy reading his proverbs. They regard him as one of the world's great philosophers," Yook Lan would add. At length, Kim Chin turned to her mother. "Ah Mah, are you going to a party with that new dress?" she asked. 517 "No," answered her mother, "I am going to the temple with Wingtong's mother to offer a 'thank' offering. Little Wingtong is now an elder brother. The stork called at his home and left a baby girl. Tomorrow will be exactly one month since that blessed event." One month after the birth of each child in the family, Mother Leong gave a "thank" offering at the temple. For centuries past her people had kept up this religious practice. So early the next morning a male fowl was killed, cleaned and cooked whole for the sacrifice. Mother Leong put the cooked chicken on a plate and carefully placed it in a basket with a jug of rice, wine, canned ginger, two eggs and two rice cakes. Into a box she put a package of firecrackers, some incense sticks, candles and other articles to be burned at the altar of sacrifice. Wingtong begged to go along, and was so happy when his grandmother permitted him to do so. They boarded a taxi and were driven to the Chinese temple. There in the temple in front of Kwan Yen, the Goddess of Mercy, Mother Leong and her daughter offered the sactifice. While the two women lighted candles and burned incense sticks, Wingtong did his share by setting off a loud volley of firecrackers. After that, he kept very quiet and watched, wide-eyed, the bright glow of the lighted candles, the yellow flames of the burnt offering and the chanting of the temple priests. After the temple sacrifice, Mother Leong, with her daughter and Wingtong, returned home. She felt happy and satisfied to once more be a grandmother.