—<—- DEATH Anna H. Michie All down through time's vast, endless reaching hall Mankind of Death has harbored inward fear, Has grieved that friends must ever heed the call, Has mourned the parting of some loved one dear— In awe at this great, ruthless reaper's stealth; Found naught can stay his hand—not will, nor wealth, Not poverty, nor love, nor haughty pride; But ever does he come, and year on year He searches out his victims where they bide, And soon or late with Death we all must ride. Ah, could we but forget tradition's fright And only glimpse the truth beyond the veil, Nor harbor secret dread of coming plight, But Death's cold grasp with reassurance hail! "Tis but a quickening of the human soul, Its homing to its well-earned cherished goal; And Death, as thought, is not the ruthless thing— "Tis you who sets the heights your soul shall scale; To you the door of endless progress swings; You mount the steps when Death your message brings. Lt SSON —_—$——— FN Sheology and Sestimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage Lesson 2 CHAPTER 2, Gop AND THE Hoty TRINITY (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) I. Lesson Aim: To lead the class members to a greater awareness of the reality of the Godhead and to an understanding of the true nature of its personnel. II. Approach to the Lesson: The class leader might place herself in the position of an investi- _ gator of the Gospel, and as such III. She would ask questions of the class members which would assist her in arriving at a correct understanding of the nature of the Godhead. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the class members would defend, explain, and justify their belief and faith in the Godhead. The class leader, if she feels that the class members have not been sufficiently motivated by the. Previous general class assignment, could give questions to individuals in advance of the actual presentation of the lesson and ask them to prepare an answer. The questions and _ projects listed below under each major division of the lesson are merePage 564 ly suggestive, and may be utilized to promote discussion. MAJOR DIVISIONS OF THE A. The reality LESSON of the existence of God (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 29-39) ib, Show that the exercise of faith is dependent upon a knowledge of the existence of God.. Give examples from your own experience to show that a belief in God is natural and necessary among humankind. What is the general belief of mankind as to the existence of God?