What are the areas from which mankind draws its evidence to prove the existence of God? Which of these evidences appears to you to be the most important? Why?. Summarize the evidence upon which your belief in the existence of God is founded.. The Godhead—a Trinity (Articles of Faith, James E. 'Talmage, PP 39-42) 1. How can you account for the sectarian view of God, with its emphasis on immateriality and three Gods in one? In what sense is the Godhead a LESSON DEPARTMENT ''trinity"—that is, a unity of three personages? 3. Explain the interrelation between the three personages in the Godhead. (See note 11 in Appendix 2 in the last part of the "Articles of Faith." This note should be considered in the presentation of the lesson and might be assigned to a class member to be given as a special report.) 4. What was the unique contribution that Joseph Smith made to the theology of the world in regard to the Godhead? C. Divine Attributes of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 42-44) 1. Summarize the most important of the Divine attributes as attested by scripture. 2. Which of the attributes possessed by God give you most comfort in times of stress and sorrow? Explain. D. Non-Mormon Views of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 44-48) 1. Have some member of the class who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a convert relate the change which took 565 place in her concept of God after she came in contact with the Restored Gospel. Through the study of the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, many beautiful passages of scripture will be revealed. Class leaders should be alert to familiarize the class members with these choice quotations. | Where there is a blackboard in the classroom one or more of these passages of scripture might be written on the blackboard before the beginning of the class period. 'Thought-provoking passages of scripture are found in this lesson. Two such follow: "For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God." (Hebrews 3:4) "O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out.' (Romans 11:33) The class leader at the conclusion of the lesson discussion based on the above questions could profitably give a summarization of the major points.