ES Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 2 Prayer as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) PRAYER, in general, is communion with God. It is a way of knowing His will, of acquiring insight into spiritual truth, of keeping in tune with the Infinite; it is a source of spiritual power and mental peace, an expression of faith in Him. Jesus in Gethsemane found prayer a fountain of strength for the terrible ordeal which he was to undergo on the cross. "Men ought always to pray, and not to faint,' Christ told his disciples when he was on the earth in 566 the flesh (Luke 18:1), and in our own time he said to the Prophet Jos-. Eph Smith, "Therefore, let the Church [obviously its separate members] take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation." (Doctrine and Covenants, 20:33) In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus showed his Apostles how to pray. 'This was in answer to a question by them. "After this manner therefore pray ye." 'Then he gave the most famous prayer in history. It contains but sixty-four words, and is so simple that even a child can understand it. Forty nine of its sixty-four words have only one syllable. He told them to pray to "our Father which art in heaven." All mankind are His children, no matter when they lived or where, whether their skin is black or yellow or white, whether they are ignorant or learned. In our Church we are instructed to pray "in the name of Jesus Christ." The phrase "hallowed be Thy name" implies not only that we hold God's name in reverence, but that we seek to honor him in our way of living, as a son does his earthly father when he lives a good life. In this prayer we are enjoined to pray that the will or law of God shall be obeyed here as it is in heaven, that His kingdom shall be established and maintained on earth. This phrase is full of meaning to us. Jesus says here that we are to ask for our daily bread. This means that it is proper to pray for material things— food, clothes, shelter, and other material necessities. We should not, however, forget that there are things higher than the physical. We are instructed to pray for forgiveness of sins, but we can obtain forgiveness 

 

 only on condition that we forgive others. It is important to remember this. (The phrase "lead us not into temptation," given in the King James' translation of the Bible, is given by the Prophet Joseph in his Inspired Revision of the Bible as, "Suffer us not to be led into temptation.") In the last sentence of the prayer we are required to acknowledge in humility the power and the kingdom and the glory that is beyond our comprehension. "Be thou humble," said the Lord to us in this age, "and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give answer to thy prayer." And again: "Pray in secret and vocally and in public." The Prophet counseled the brethren, and the advice is equally applicable to the sisters: "Seek to know God in your closets.... Follow the directions of the Book of Mormon, and pray over, and for your families, your cattle, your flocks, your herds, your corn, and all things that you possess; ask the blessing of God upon all your labors, and everything that you engage in." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 247) Questions for Discussion 1. Why is prayer an expression of faith in God? 2. What should be one's attitude if he sees no answer to his prayer? 3. Why do you think the disciples of Jesus asked him to teach them to pray? 4. What in this lesson would be a good starting point for discussing the subject in the home? 5. Discuss Bishop Le Grand Richards' statement, "It is better to pray with your children than for them." 6. Read Alexis Carroll, M. D., "The Power of Prayer," Readers' Digest, March, 1941.