Page 53] ~The Show Is On! Anna Prince Redd INDIAN MOTHER CRES and acres of gleaming A sand, cactus, yucca and_lizards; mile upon mile of bleached alkali, tufted with coarse grass and scrawny brush; land of wonder and enchantment, cut through with flaming canyons worn by the water of centuries; towering green mountains, high, unexplored mesas, ship-like masses of rock standing majestically in the desert, ageless and solitary against unclouded skies; peaks looming a hundred miles away in the blue distances; land of silences and sounds—western New Mexico! Just outside her modern cities a vast area stretches into unexplored Page 532 canyons that guard the history and culture of an ancient people. Here, where but a handful of white people have ever been, Coronado, the Spanish explorer, in 1540 began his conquest. Long before Jamestown or the Mayflower, this was the land of a people whose homes still cling to the cliffs or top the mesas—skyline villages gleaming in the sun or standing castle-like in the desert. Here lived the first Americans, proudly proclaiming a civilization in many ways the equal of our own. Here their descendants live and die in a primitive state, making jewelry of silver and the sacred turquoise; making pottery, baskets, blankets, and intricate ceremonial pictures in the sand. Transcontinental highways. Crisscross the area, but travelers get only the merest glimpses of the alluring vistas and secluded spots that lose themselves in its vastness. Only on the horseback trips and side tours by bus or automobile does one really look behind the scenes. Since comparatively few tourists can or do take these trips, the town of Gallup, New Mexico, brings the charm, the culture and the traditions of this people to thousands of spectators every year. Nowhere in the world is there another such spectacle—the only allIndian celebration in the world. The white people take not the slightest part in the three-day fiesta except to play host. They feed the dancers, care for their ponies, provide hospital care, feed all Indian visitors at least one meal each dav, THE SHOW IS ON exploit their wares and direct the traffic. The rest is a gorgeous panorama so authentic in setting, so primitive and intense that it leaves one bewildered with its unreal reality. Ten street of the little city becomes a gateway; every house a tourist home if need be. From the spacious El Rancho and the famed Harvey House of the Santa Fe Railroad to the Catholic hospital high above the houses of the town, tourists find quarters and a gay, festive welcome. From pueblo and hogan, from brush shed and teepee, the Indians come. The first to come and the last to go are the tall, straight Navajos who arrogantly call themselves, "Dineh," _meaning, "The People." 'They come in light spring wagons drawn by cay- » use ponies or mules, deluxe automobiles, on foot or on horseback; some even "thumb" their way. Their bright blankets add splotches of color to the otherwise drab soil of their 15,000,000-acre reservation. As they come they chant and sing in shrill, clear tones that echo across the desert and strike against the crimson cliffs, to be re-echoed and lost in the stretching distances. TUG OF WAR 533 Bound for the big ceremonial, this thrifty tribe not only takes itself but its flocks and herds to graze nearby so that no one need miss the show and, incidentally, its profits. Ponies are loaded with Navajo blankets of the finest weave and patterns, squaws and men too old to walk, jewelry and furs for traders, and buckskin for Mexican boleros. Dogs and rattling pans are brought for noise, while sheep and goats for milk and for barter bring up the rear. Flutes of reed and tom-toms of hide make the music. The desert does the rest with thoroughness, coating everything with velvet dust and shimmering heat. From many directions come the strong-winded, stocky little Hopis, peace-loving and solitary. Beside them come the Pueblos from 'Taos to Zuni, the Tewas, small and funloving, and the wary, full-fleshed Utes from Utah and Colorado. From every part of the colorful Southwest they come. Dogs bark and babies wail. Over all is the acrid smell of burning brush and evergreens. In the town, every man, woman and child becomes ceremonialminded. Men go about in flashy silk "TAOS HOOP DANCES THE SHOW IS ON shirts and Spanish sombreros or in the beautiful velveteen smocks and white, slashed trousers of the Navajo. Women don long, full calico fe —cometimes two or three of them—banded around the bottom with orange, purple, yellow, red (any color goes), and velvet, conchobelted tunics. Boys go cowboy and Indian chief. No matter what the time of day, there is no mistaking the festive air of the least inhabitant. From toddlers up, the children are dressed for all the world like their Indian friends, with knotted, stringwrapped hair, moccasined feet, and trailing skirts. Painted, feathered, sashed and be-silvered, they take over the show. This is all good pow-wow to the Indians. They snicker and point as a party of bedecked Palefaces strut by. The Palefaces shout when a gaping Indian gets tangled up in the traffic and stands like a statue, mute and thoroughly bewildered, vainly seeking an avenue of escape. The laugh is only part of the fun, however. The children in Gallup never for a moment forget that they are hosts. If the copper boy doesn't right himself instantly, out darts a white boy to the rescue, and hand in hand the two squirm through the traffic back to the safety of the packed sidewalks. T ten o'clock on each of the three mornings of the celebration, a three-mile parade moves through the streets of the town. The afternoon is given over to a fast-moving, thrillpacked rodeo. All this is but marking time until the unbelievable splendor of the night performance. At night Gallup comes into its own! Thousands of Redmen and Palefaces 535 face each other across huge ceremonial bonfires that light the arena. A hush falls over the crowds that pack the grandstand when the firelighting ceremony is finished. It breaks a little as the mounting flames push back the dark shadows of the scented night and then rises to feverish excitement. As the low boomboom of the tom-toms floats inward, followed by the pad of moccasined feet as the ceremonial dance begins. Into the circle of light rides a dignified Indian chief in trailing feathered headdress and buckskin regalia. Beside him is a beautiful Acoma girl, dressed in soft white doeskin, a single feather in the band around her dark, braided hair. The mincing steps of her pony are contrasted against the larger strides of the Chief's horse. "Behind them the Inter-Tribal All-Indian Band marches. After them come the fierce, war-like Apaches, doing their famous Devil Dance and wearing hoods, black buckskin molded like clay to their faces. The masks whirl fiercely without any apparent motion of the sinister heads. Arms and legs take on unhuman curvatures. Never still, they seem possessed of the evil spirits they seek to frighten away. No less elaborate and varied are the masks of the other tribal dancers. They are seen in every size from fitted hoods to nine-foot Shalako masks worn by the famous Zuni dancers when Shalako, messenger of the gods, visits the pueblo. Taos hoop dancers, oil-well Indians from Oklahoma, Cheyenne Arapohoes, Apaches, Hopis, Navajo Yeibichai dancers in the weirdest of all tribal masks, buffalo dancers, quail dancers, harvest dancers and 536 hunting dancers form a swift-moving, colorful spectacle that quickens the blood and sends an answering chill down the spine as the thousands of spectators send up one long cheer and lapse into awed silence at the unfamiliar sound of their own voices. The rhythmic beat, beat, of the tom-toms, the tinkle of tiny bells, the rattle of gourds and seed pods, the unearthly chant that rises to a shrill crescendo as the march progresses around the fire-lit arena, pulse into the far corners of the country, rising in intensity, dying to hushed monotony. The opening strains of "The Star Spangled Banner" float over the vibrant air. Rising to their feet, one grand mass of color and harmony, Whites and Indians alike stand at attention while the national anthem is played by the Indian band. There is a stricture in the throat as the last note dies away. The silence that follows is a prayer. Then in a burst of gaiety the show is on! Far into the night the dancing pulsates till the earth vibrates with rhythm. Each tribe outdoes the other in weird gyrations. With bonfire 'spotlights, towering mountains for backdrops, chants ten thousand years old the only stimulant to a delirious momentum, the Indians of twenty-one Southwestern tribes revert to the primitive. Time recedes, aeons turn backward as the hour hand moves forward. Daylight finds the ticket stub in your hand a soggy ball and every muscle of your body tense with excitement, but not with weariness. Too keyed up for sleep when you finally seek your quarters, you lie and listen to the hour-after-hour chanting that according to authorities. 

 

 subsides only with the coming of the sun There is the barking of dogs and the smell of smoke and frying foods. The atmosphere is too hot and dry to breathe well. There are pangs of hunger. Itisnoon. Six hours more and the weirdest of all spectacles begins again, to end with the dawn and start all over again at dusk. Tomahawks couldn't keep you from the scene. HILE the Indians lie in lethargic sleep, you begin the tour of the exhibit buildings. 'Throughout the ceremonial, Indian craftsmen of all tribes demonstrate their handicrafts—both the finished highly-artistic products and those in the process of making. Navajo and Hopi tribesmen and squaws make and sell pottery, leather goods, blankets. Sil-. Versmiths make intricate designs on belts, necklaces, purses and beads— all before your eyes. A Navajo medicine man directs the making of the daily sand painting, the most famous and skillful of all the Indian arts. Under his direction, apprentices sift the colored sands through their deft fingers onto the smooth-as-glass sand base in the ceremonial lodge. At night the "painting" is destroyed with proper ceremony. The exhibit offers a sales outlet for fine Indian arts and crafts, but its greatest asset is its educational value. Through these exhibits, conceptions of craftsmanship are elevated among the Indians and Whites, and national and international markets are opened up. This is especially true of the Navajo blanket industry. | Navajo rug-making is the oldest living craft in America It had THE SHOW IS ON reached its lowest level of production ten years ago. Since the inception of the Gallup August Ceremonial, the industry has increased over one hundred percent in both quality and quantity, and the weaver is now getting a fair return for his labor, as well as a market for his wool. Exhibits of farm and garden products, grain, sheep, goats, horses and cattle are shown, which would rival those of most state fairs.. Prizes awarded in all fields stimulate the craftsmen to improve their work. They get new ideas from the displays to take home and adapt to their own individual art. The result is better products and more business. Demonstrations of weaving, pottery-making, Kachin carving and decorating are hourly in progress. Indian arts and crafts now attract 537 world-wide attention. Blankets, beads, jugs, decorative pottery, tomtom end tables, are gay additions to living rooms. The vogue for Indian design in clothes among the Whites is seen as a direct result of the exhibits. The whole ceremonial is an educational exploitation that defies description. Editor's Note: The Indians set the dates for the Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonial held at Gallup, New Mexico. The exact dates vary from year to year. This year (1941) the ceremonial will be a four-day fiesta and will be held August 13, 14, 15, and 16. Pictures used in this article are by Doctor Carl E. Young, a devotee of Indian lore. He is particularly interested in Indian dances and ceremonies and is frequently in attendance at the Gallup ceremonial where these pictures were secured. <<"TXAKE time to work—it is the price of success. Take time to think—it is the source of power. Take time to play—it is the secret of perpetual youth. Take time to read—it is the foundation of wisdom"—Rueminations. 6¢7 IFE is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations,"—George Bernard Shaw, Irish Dramatist. HA P PEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon O'er-arched by August's deep blue skies The hope of spring resplendent lies. 'RHE race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong." To this faith hold fast. It is things spiritual that conquer and survive the horrors of brutal force and preserve the beautiful way of life. Creative souls who gave the world its cultural glory are immortal, and out of the ashes of destruction they will build again. Such is the story of the past; such must be the story of the present! UTH STEWART, aged seven, niece of a ship steward, said to her music teacher one day, "Paderewski came to see me yesterday. He played for me." It was true. The Polish patriot and the world's greatest pianist played for this little girl on her battered piano. These human gestures were as much a part of his life as his art; both were expressions of a great soul. ARBARA BRANDLEY, daughter of one of Utah's outstanding poets — the late Elsie Talmage Brandley — staged a unique wedding party this summer as she stood with her young husband, Norman Howells, son of counselor Marcia K. Howells, attended by six lovely sisters as bridesmaids. ROTHELLA WADE, of Salt Lake, won a prize and special honors for her designs at the annual exhibit of the Trephagen School of Fashion in New York City. Page 538 on COCHRAN was the first woman pilot to take a Hudson bomber across the Atlantic to London, where she landed successfully. MARY SPENCER CORNWALL, 80, and Tranquilla Brady Jordan, 95, are numbered among the notable mothers who passed away this summer. CGEORGIA YOUNG, for many years an active officer in the Altrusa Club, an ethical social-relations organization, was a popular~ candidate for International President at the convention held in Roanoke, Virginia, this summer. LORA CLOMAN, Washington socialite, one-time resident of Utah and: Idaho, later connected with United States Embassy in London, at 70 has written her autobiography, titled, I'd Live It Over. Walking the Whirlwind, by Bngid Knight, No One Now Will Know, by E. M. Delafield, and Of Men and Women, by Pearl Buck, are a few of the many worthwhile books by women recently published. RENE PICK, student at a Polish university, was arrested with forty other fellow students, imprisoned in Russia and sentenced to be executed. Through the American minister she was released and is now back in the United States. She has many interesting stories to tell.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 = President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Leona F. Wintch Anna B. Hart mets Ss. Ghee Ethel B. Andrew a Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Secretary-Treasurer Second Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - Vol. 28 OQ EDIT O RIAL —T, Friendliness in Church Gatherings POPULAR magazine recently published an account of a little orphan girl, eight years of age, who journeyed nearly 8000 miles alone from Norway, her name and destination stitched on the inside of her coat. Her knowledge of the American language was limited to two words, "Mickey Mouse." After landing in New York, the little traveler rested a few days and then was placed on a train by an attache of the Traveler's Aid Society and sent an additional 3155 miles to San Francisco, where a gentleman who had adopted her received her at the final terminus of a long trek. Greeting her in her native tongue, the gentleman asked, "How do you like America?" Enthusiastically the little girl answered, "I am glad I came to America. Everybody adopted me." The memories of her long trip were of kindnesses received along the way. She was alone and yet not alone. Everyone she had met had extended the hand of friendliness, and the long road had been made bright by human kindness. The magazine concludes the story by saying: "It is comforting in times of universal turmoil to read of something wondrously beautiful, something not yet perished from the souls of men." Friendliness and human kindness are universal needs of mankind. Without them one is lonely and embittered; with them one's spirit is light and he rises above the things that would defeat him. However, in every community, in schools, churches, clubs or social organizations, there are those who are denied these things. For one reason or another they stand on the edge of things. Sometimes it is because they are critical and bitter, condemning other people as snobs, blaming circumstances, feeling that they are unappreciated and misunderstood, that people are unfair to them. Sometimes they remain on the outside because they feel inadequate in some respect—financially, socially, or otherwise. Sometimes something has occurred in their lives that makes them withdraw from the group. Sometimes they are not a part of things merely because they are by nature Page 539 AUGUST, 1941 o. 8 540 diffident and retiring. Wistful people, they innately yearn to be a vital part of the group, to be friendly and to win friends, but they remain lonely because they do not know how to freely mingle with others. No matter what the cause, he who feels outside the group and who remains on the edge of things is to be sympathized with, and understanding effort should be made to bring him in and to make him feel an integral part of the whole. All too frequently, however, those who should be alert to his situation, and who are in a position to draw him in, either fail to recognize his need or are so absorbed in other (and often less important) things that they do not take time to give him the consideration he deserves. In some instances they, thoughtlessly no doubt, actually contribute to his feeling of loneliness. This is frequently the case in our Church gatherings, even in Relief Society.