oT Home Accident Prevention HE seriousness of the accident problem reported by the American Red Cross in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention' awakens us to the fact that no one can afford to be indifferent to accidents and their tragic consequences. This publication. States that 10 million persons are injured annually; that 32,000 are killed annually in home accidents. It suggests a number of simple activities that can be carried on in the home in the interest of decreasing the high accident rate. These will be published serially in the Magazine during the next few months. In view of the fact that half of the home accident fatalities are due to falls, the first suggestions are made with regard to preventing falls: A. B. I. To Prevent Falls at Home Stairs Stairs should have strong rails securely fastened, sufficient headroom, and should be lighted. Rugs, especially small ones, should not be put at head or foot of stairs, or on landings. If any rugs are used they - should have non-skid material or mats under them to hold them to the floor and prevent their slipping. Carpets used on stairs should be held in place by strips securely nailed down to prevent slipping or rolling. A tear' or rip in the carpet material should be mended at once. Worn or broken steps should be replaced or repaired at once. Stairs should be clear of articles such as toys, brooms, flower stands, etc. Carrying too heavy a load while climbing or descending stairs often causes a fall or a serious strain on the muscles. Floors To prevent waxed floors from causing falls, use less wax and more rubbing. Rugs on floors should have non-skid material or pads to hold them in place and prevent slipping. Mop up grease or water at once. Repair holes in the floor. Teach children early in life to pick up toys, books, etc., after using them.. Bathroom Provide strong hand holds within reach for person to use when getting in and out of tub and shower. Place rubber mat in the bottom of tub or shower to prevent slipping while in standing position. E. Have stationary soap dish to prevent soap falling into tub.. Ladders, Chairs, Etc. Ladders should be strong, safe and properly locked and placed in position before using. Discard them the minute they are not sound. Don't set a ladder up straight for climbing. Give it some slope so it won't tip backward; set the base of the ladder carefully before starting up. Chairs, boxes, small tables, etc., are never safe when used as substitutes for ladders. When going up or down a ladder, hold to the sides of the ladder, not to the rungs. Porches Keep in constant repair. A porch with a too slanting floor, rotten foundation and leaky eave trough will cause a fall on a wet cold day. Provide strong railings. Build gates for protection of small children at head of steps. F. Icy Surfaces Use salt on steps and porches to melt ice. Scatter ashes or sand on walks to prevent slipping.. Falling Objects Leaning and crumbling chimneys will ~ surely fall some day. Dead limbs from trees in the yard should be cut out | before they fall. Don't leave things to fall out of any window or off railings. Warped boards should be removed from walks. Ends of boards should be fastened down. Nails should be promptly removed from loose boards.