[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY. | Author: Unknown]

THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.

	WASHINGTON, NOV 16.—The agitated
question of establishing in the city of
Washington a national university on the
lines suggested by President Washington,
has taken more definite form than in the
past, and representative American women
have taken hold of the project with a de- 
termination to push it to a successful con-
clusion if possible. They have started out
in a practical manner by seeking to raise
the first $250,000 necessary for the erection 
of an administration building to form the
nucleus of the university and hope to lay
the corner stone on Feb. 22, 1899. Their
purpose in the interim is to urge the matter
continuously on the attention of women all
over the country. They intend likewise to
interest the school children in the work.
As a first step for awakening interest in the
undertaking they will assemble in conven-
tion in Washington on Dec. 14, to decide
on ways and means for arousing public
sentiment.
	Among those who have initiated the
movement to fulfill Washington’s wish are
Mrs. Phebe Hearst of this city, Mrs. Ellen
A. Richardson of Boston, Mrs. Clara A.
Anthony, Mrs. Rachel Howland, Mrs.
Louise Tincker and Mrs. Edmond Anthony
Jr. of Massachusetts, Mrs. L. Boyd of 
Georgia, Mrs. W. A. Roebling of New
Jersey, Mrs. John K. Goodloe, of Kentucky,
Mrs. H. H. Adams of Connecticut, Mrs. C.
S. Brice of Ohio, Mrs. Eugene Hall, Mrs.
David Starr Jordan, Dr. Charlotte Bleak
Brown, Mrs. E. S. Hubbard and Mrs. 
Caroline Jackson of California.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
chief organizer of the movement writing to
Mr. George H. Harris of this city of the
plan thus far formed, says:
	“The patriotic ladies of America are to build
the administration building and they propose to
make the 22nd of February, 1898 the nation’s first
offering day for this purpose, asking no large co-
tribution, begging nothing. America’s 70,000,000
people must build this great monument. If the
13 000,000 children in the public schools in 
America would give an offering of a penny each 
on Washington’s birthday they would have suffi-
cient to erect the building and endow it. Let us
then join hands and have an American university.
American sciences, American ideas for American
citizens.”
	Mrs. Richardson further stated that she
has arranged with the proper authorities
that the bureau of engraving and printing 
shall produce certificates which shall be
given to those who contribute.

[Column 2]
