[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: THE WEED AND HER FRIENDS. | Author: Unknown]

THE WEED AND HER FRIENDS.

A WEED looked up from the lawn one day,
	And turning its head around,
Said, “I see the people have gone away,
	And the mower lies flat on the ground.

And the hoe stands under the elm tree there,
	And the digging-fork close by its side,
They are a most industrious pair,
	When with energy applied.

But I don’t care for the mower and hoe,
	Oh dear me no, not I!
They cannot touch me from head to toe,
	When no human hand is nigh.

And I have friends in the sun, and air,
	And the raindrops clear and bright;
And thd evening dew, with its mantle fair
Which glistens in morning light.

So I’ll rear my head in native pride,
	And crown it with bright red beads,
My shoulders and arms I’ll spread out wide,
	And load them with tinted seeds. 

Now Autumn with her balmy air,
	Will play on my offspring’s brow;
In rich, soft soil drop many a pair,
	Awaiting the springtime’s plow.

Then comes the wind with his mighty power,
	He does his work wisely and well;	
He carries my children from tomb to tower 
	O’er mountain, and flowery dell. 

Then comes the snow with her silent wand,
	She keeps my children warm.
King frost is nigh with his icy hand
	To seal them from the storm.

When winter’s o’er and the snows have gone,
	And the sun comes to kiss me again—
March wind will pluck the gems from my crown
	And scatter them o’er the plain. 

And some of my babies, like most little ones,
	Will paddle in brooklets clear,
And down through great streams will journey on
	Through oceans, to lands afar.

Now if this young man having charge of all,
	Had before he went away,
Plucked me up though I was but small;
	Left nothing of me to stay,

I could not have grown ten thousand strong,
	Aided by sun and air 
And the wind and rain as they came along,
	And the dew with its mantle fair.


But now I’ve gone beyond his reach
	He never can gather me in.”
Let this humble weed her lesson teach.
	For such is the journey of sin!
