[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: LECTURE VI. | Author: Unknown]

LECTURE VI.
F. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, SPIRIT-
	UAL.
	1. By instruction. (a) Divine inspiration
(b) Revelation. (c) Preaching.
	2. By research. (a) Bible. (b) Book of
Mormon. (c) Doctrine and Covenants. (d)
Pearl of Great Price. (e) Inspired Ser-
mons and Epistles. (f) By works and ap-
plication of knowledge.
			LECTURE VII.
G. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	1. By visiting the sick and needy. (a)
Necessities. (b) Helpful labor. (c) Cheer-
ful entertainment. (d) Refreshments. (e)
Flowers. 
	2. By assisting the poor. (a) Encour-
agement. (b) Sharing comforts. (c) Pro-
viding labor. (d) Entertainments.
	3. By encouraging the downcast. (a)
Establishing confidence in themselves. (b)
Showing the mercy of God. (c) Teaching
them to look to the future and not despair.
	4 Care of the aged. (a) Supplying needs.
(b) Lightening their labors. (c) Cheering
their lives by proper attention.
	5. By proper care of the dead. (a) Pre-
paring clothing. (b) Washing, and dress-
ing the body. (c) Properly laying away.
			LECTURE VIII.
H. SUSTAINING THE PRIESTHOOD.
	1. By word. (a) Encouraging confi-
dence in individuals who preside. (b) De-
fending decisions given by authority of the
priesthood. (c) Encouraging Church mem-
bers in the performance of duty.
	2. By works. (a) Responding to calls.
(b) Fostering mission work. (c) Volun-
tary contribution of means.
			LECTURE IX.
Woman's Duty and Influence in the State.
I. PRIVILEGES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
	1, Utah compared with other states. (a)
Equality of men and women. 
			LECTURE X. 
J. TRAINING OF FUTURE CITIZENS.
	1. Duty of bearing children. (a) The
family the foundation of the state. (b) De-
crease of children in the American home.
			LECTURE XI.
K.
	1. Home instruction and training. (a)
How mothers may train children in citi-
zenship. (b) Introduction of God and
Godliness into affairs of State.
			LECTURE XII.
L. Mothers of Great Men.
	1. Great men’s acknowledgment of their
obligations to their mothers. (a) The
hand that rocks the cradle, etc. (b) Exam-
ples and precepts.
			AMANDA DONE,
			GRACE T. ANDERSON,
			ELLA B. IVERSON,
					Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RETRENCHMENT MEETINGS.
	The sisters are well aware that for more
than thirty years meetings have been held
semi-monthly in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. The subject of retrenchment was
introduced by President Brigham Young as
early as in the “Sixties” at a time when
this people seemed inclined to follow after
the fashions of the world in some lines, and
as President Young was an economist,
he counseled the older sisters to be careful
and set an example worthy of emulation by
the women of the younger generation. Sis-
ter M. Isabella Horne was asked to take
charge of these meetings by President
Young; and the first meeting was held in
the 15th ward school house and from there
adjourned to the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms where they have been held ever
since. Associated with President Horne in
this organization were Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith, Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda N.
Hyde, Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret T.
Smoot.
	Of the original number only two remain
M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W.
Smith.
	It is not the intention to give at this time
a sketch of this association but as the meet-
ings are now discontinued, and as we have
minutes of several meetings on hand that
had not been printed we will make a brief
mention of these last meetings.
	October 17, 1903, there was a good atten-
dance Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding in
the absence of President Horne, the usual
exercises of singing, etc., and prayer was
offered by Sister Mary Alice Lambert, after
remarks by Sister Stevenson upon the Sab-
bath day and instructions in the way of ex-
hortation, Counselor, Sarah Jenne Cannon of
the Relief Society, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
spoke very feelingly of the work of Sister
Horne and her Board—they had visited
twenty-two wards already the present year
and were intending to visit all before the
cold weather, she expressed herself forcibly
in regard to the care of the poor and other
matters of importance.
	Sister Maria Corbett, Martha Read, Sarah
Rushton, Mary Campbell, Mary P. Silver
and Sisters Madsen, Stilton, Peterson and
Lundgreen bore strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel. Sister Mary A. Lam-
bert said she had a testimony of this work
when a very little girl, Sisters Mary Mair,
Seabeck, Wilson, Jones, also bore testimony
and Elizabeth Paul spoke of her many years
presidency in the 10th ward, she also offer-
ed prayer for all the sick and afflicted in
which the sisters all united.
	Sister Catherine Layne felt the prayer
would be answered and the sick recover
who had been specially mentioned.
	Sisters Buzzo, Langton, and others spoke
on faith and humility. Sisters E. Webb
and J. C. Howe spoke upon the education
and training of the children properly. The
benediction was pronounced by Sister A. F.
Wardoup.
	At the meeting in November, Saturday
11th, opening prayer was offered by Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith, the
subject of the first part of the meeting was
Sister Horne’s faithfulness for so many
years, and of the near approach of her 85th
birthday, also spoke upon charity for each
other; prophecies of Joseph Smith now being
fulfilled. Sisters Davis S. J. Cannon, M.
Morris, E. Paul H. Peterson, E. Langton,
N. Saunders and H. Lapish all spoke en-

[Column 2]
couragingly and urged all to faithfulness,
and also referred to the trials of the people
in the past as contrasted with the present
time. General President Bathsheba W.
Smith spoke of the temple work and urged
the sisters to be diligent in doing their
temple work; referred to the Book of Nephi
where it spoke of the Savior appealing to
the people, how He healed the sick and af-
flicted, and blest them, said “The Lord will
lift the cloud from us if we will be humble
and true to our covenants.”
	Sisters Niebaur Nelson and Peterson
spoke upon sympathy, Sisters Luff and De
Mott bore faithful testimonies. Meeting ad-
journed until Saturday after Christmas.

	At the meeting December 26, 1903,
Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided, prayer
was offered by Counselor S. J. Cannon.
Sister Webb addressed the sisters upon
purity of life, rectitude of conduct and the
guidance of our children. Sister Amelia F.
Wardroup thought we should keep our
promises to our children and to one another,
that confidence may not be weakened and
we should keep the covenants we make
with the Lord, for He is true to His chil-
dren.
	Sister Julia C<. H>owe said the love of
God is with us when we do right we should
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leads to life and salvation.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon thought we
should be careful in our conversation; if we
cannot speak well of any one it is not
necessary to speak of them at all; told
the sisters that President Horne was very
sick; she had sent her love to the sisters
and hoped she would soon be able to meet
with them again.
	Sister Jane C. Young thought we should
always keep faithfully the promises we
make, related an instance where a child’s
confidence was utterly destroyed by a brok-
en promise.
	Sister Langton spoke of the trying times
in which we are living, these persecutions
are for good, but only those who live near
to the Lord will come off triumphant in the
end.
	Sisters De Mott and Peterson bore ex-
cellent testimonies, and Sister Rebecca
Brown testified that she knew Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she had joined the
Church when a child of fourteen years, bore
strong testimony of the gift of healing the
sick and felt we should live the lives of
saints in very deed.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things, and
seek for strength to bear our trials and put
trust in our Heavenly Father not only with
our lips but by living our religion.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith bore a
powerful testimony and hoped Sister Horne
would be with us in the New Year. Coun-
selor Webb presented the greetings of the
season with love and the meeting adjourned
with prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver.

	The first meeting in the new year 1904
was held Saturday, January 23. Counselor
Stevenson presiding, prayer by Counselor
Webb. Sister Stevenson addressed the
sisters, referring to the changes about to be
made in dividing Salt Lake Stake, thought
we should be careful how we live and re-
joice in the persecutions and trust in the
Lord and pray for help, we should not
qnench the spirit in these meetings but bear


[Column 1]
testimony and serve the Lord with all our
might, mind and strength; spoke lovingly
of Sister Horne and her great labors among
the Saints in Zion. Counselor S. J. Cannon
rejoiced in these meetings spoke of the love
of Sister Horne for tLe sisters with whom
she had been associated so many years and
said in two weeks we shall hold the Salt
Lake Stake Conference in the Assembly
Hall and urged all the sisters to attend, it
would be the last Conference of the Stake
as it is now; she delivered a message from
President Horne to the sisters to be sure
and take care of the poor and especially
those that are backward in making their
wants known. The Relief Society is a
great benefit and blessing to us all; we have
ail worked hard, but it is those that prove
faithful unto the end who receive the re-
ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she re-
ceived consolation and strength in attend-
ing these meetings, thought we had no
time to trifle away, believed there were
great changes coming to us, felt it was
good to bear testimony.
	Sister Gardener and another sister bore
good testimonies referred to the Savior’s
beautiful example and precepts.
	Stake Secretary Julia S. Woolley spoke
of the need of charity, and said she felt the
dividing of the Salt Lake Stake was a good
move and inspired of the Lord, it would
give more sisters a chance to work in the
organizations, spoke feelingly of our chil-
dren, and referred to the goodness of Sister
Horne for so many years.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
bore her testimony and referred to the time
when these meetings were first organized,
how many good sisters, have been here in
times gone by, she felt good to be here on
account of the many happy times we have
had here. After some others had spoken
the meeting adjourned, benediction by
Sister E. Paul.

	The Ladies’ meeting held Saturday, Feb.
27, 1904. Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing she gave a very interesting talk to the
sisters of her trip south and to California;
where she saw orchards of oranges and
bananas; mentioned more especially of the
native Indians in Phoenix, Arizona, how
they occupied their time--attended govern-
ment schools and were being educated,
thought they were becoming intelligent and
she felt they were blessed of the Lord, she
visited a Lamanite family where the man
was Counselor to the Bishop of Papago
ward, and then the native women are a
great help to the white women by washing
for them, they are learning to sew: said the
Relief Society sisters had done all they
could in teaching and helping them; she
also spoke quite feelingly of the sisters in
Mexico, met many who had lived in Salt
Lake years ago.
	Sister Rebecca Brown said we should sew
seeds of charity and strive to be better
every day. Sister Martha Morris sang a
hymn. Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon was
pleased to hear of the Lamanites being
taught in the way they are in Arizona, said

[Column 2]
she enjoyed reading the Book of Mormon
made a practice of reading it through every
year; spoke of many interesting things, and
closed by adding that she thought Sister
Horne would soon be with us again.
	Sister Martha Read spoke of our bless-
ings and also of our sufferings. Sister C. J.
Thomas desired to live worthy to go to
Jackson County with the Saints hoped the
time would come when we will be united
in all things. Sister Catherine Layne felt
glad to hear about the Lamanites, “they
are a great people, it is good to hear they
are coming forth in the Gospel, desire to
have the privilege of going among them as
a missionary.”
	Sisters Peterson, and Brown, bore testi-
mony and Sister Mary Mair who spoke of
the time of Johnson’s army, the poverty
of the Saints at that time, but through the
blessings of the Lord the people were re-
lieved.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
bore her testimony and talked upon the
blessings of obedience.
	Sister Hook in speaking referred to her
friend iness towards the Indians. Sister
Madson had been greatly blessed in getting
her genealogy to work in the Temple.
Meeting adjourned with benediction by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
			AMELIA F. WARDOUP,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The Relief Society Nurse Class will com-
mence September 19, 1904, continuing
eight months. Four lessons a week will 
be given by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, the
class instructor, and lectures by other phy-
sicians and surgeons of Salt Lake City.
There will also be a course of lectures on
cooking and other important subjects con-
nected with the nurse profession by mem-
bers of the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety or by those whom they may appoint.
	Students wishing to take the nurse course
and not previously provided with places to
stay during the term will have an oppor-
tunity of getting good homes where they
can at least earn enough to pay for their 
board and room. It would be advisable for
those intending coming from a distance, to
be  here a few days before the class com-
mences in order to have time to get settled
in such places, during which few days they
will be provided for. Call on Mrs. P. Y.
Beatie, secretary, 55 N. West Temple.
		EMMA A EMPEY,
	Supt. Relief Society Nurse Classes

	Obstetrical class commences Monday,
October 10, 1904. Tuition, $40.00; books,
$4 00 to $7 00, Ten dollars less will be
charged to those who attend Relief Society
Nurse Class.
	Ladies taking both classes, it might be
advisable if several could club together,
rent rooms and board themselves.
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS Instructor.

