[Vol3 | September 1916 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. JUDITH. Strictly speaking, Judith is not one of the "women of the Bible." She comes in between the period of the Old Testament days and those of the New Testament. But she is well worth considering in this series, not only because she was one of the most remarkable of Hebrew women, but also because she stands for a type of faith and courage in times of danger for the Chosen People. She was a native of Bethulia, and lived about a hundred twenty-five years before Christ. The situation which it is necessary to keep in mind in order to understand this stirring narrative is this: The king of Assyria sent ambassadors to the Jews and their neighbors, ordering them to join their forces with his, so that he might conquer the world. But they sent away his ambassadors in disgrace. The king threatened vengeance. After a war of his own he sent up against the Hebrew people his general, Holofernes, with a great army to subdue them. The Jews fell from boasting to fear at his approach. Moreover, they fasted and prayed that God would not suffer them to be overcome by their enemies. Judith, however, did more than fasting and praying, although she did these she applied the quite modern doctrine, that "God helps those that first help themselves." Bethulia was besieged. The condition there became very serious, because there was a lack of water in the town. Rising from her knees, one day, doffing her widow's weeds, and decking herself in the most bewitching costume, with jewels ? and other ornaments for she was rich as well as very beautiful she went forth out of the gates of the city with her maid and walked toward the tents of the Assyrians. She had held a consultation with the leaders of her people, in which she had chided them not only for their unwisdom in conducting the work of fortification, but also for their lack of faith in the living God. And she had prayed, moreover, that God would grant her victory in what she was about to do for her people. And the two approached the camp of the enemy. The first watch met her. "Who are you?" they demanded. With her mouth full of cunning and deceit, she told them, "I am a Hebrew woman. I have fled from my people, and am coming to the king's army to show how the hill country may be taken without loss." The men, captivated by her beauty, took her to the camps, assuring her that the general would be glad to see her. There was great wonderment when she appeared, not only at her looks but at her daring as well. At the request of the general she was taken before his tent. Holofernes "rested upon his bed under a canopy woven of purple and gold and emeralds and precious stones." He came out with "silver lamps going before him." With a needlessness of which he was not aware, he besought her not to be afraid. "Tell me," he urged, "wherefore thou art fled from thine own people and art come to me?" She related, with truth enough, what had ? befallen her people their hunger and thirst and partakings of "the forbidden thing." But she added, ambiguously, "God hath sent me to thee to work things whereat all the earth shall be astonished." And she asked the privilege of remaining in the ? camp for a time which, of course, the voluptuous Holofernes was very glad to grant. He, too, was obviously infatuated with the Jewish widow. Also he affected to think that God had sent her to him. Now, both Judith and Holofernes had designs upon each other, though, it is needless to state, of a wholly different nature. He invited her to eat with him. But she refused, making the excuse that it was not proper for her to eat other than the food permitted in the law. Then he affected to be anxious that she had not provided enough. She assured him, however, with double meaning again, that "thine handmaid shall not spend those things that I have, before the Lord work by mine hand the things that he hath determined." She very craftily obtained permission of him to allow her to pass without the camp to pray. Holofernes arranged a great feast for only himself and her, dismissing all the servants early so that he might be with her alone. Pleased with his apparent success, he drank more wine, the author tells us, "than he had drunk at any time in one day since he was born." But the wary Judith drank nothing. When he was securely locked in his drunken slumber, she went to his bed, lifted the curtain, breathed a prayer to her God that He would strengthen her arm, and cut off his head with two strokes. This ghastly object she handed to her maid, with directions to put it into the bag which they had brought with them, and the two set out for Bethulia. Entering the gates, she showed the leaders her trophy. "The Lord! hath smitten him," she exclaimed, "by the hand of a woman Consternation fell upon the Assyrians when they discovered what had been done, and crying and rending their clothes, they 
 fled at the approach of the hosts of the Hebrews. "And there was none, we are assured by the historian, "that made the children of Israel any more afraid in the days of Judith, nor a long time after her death." It is interesting to compare and contrast the character of Esther and Judith. Both women were undeniably beautiful. A plain-looking woman, whatever the inference, could not, in the one case, have won the queenship nor, in the other case, bewitched the unsophisticated Holofernes. Moreover, both used their charms, according to the notions of the times, in the service of religion. Both, too, encompassed the death of a powerful enemy of Israel, the one through guile and the other through her influence with the king, her husband. Besides, Esther and Judith were devout, prayerful religionists. But Esther impresses us as a woman who needed guidance, direction, something or somebody to lean upon. She has little or no initiative. She is more or less timid and hesitating. Judith, on the other hand, although perfectly womanly, is self-reliant, courageous, daring, capable of decisive action in high moments. And yet she is always the woman, and a wonderful woman to smite the mind as well as the eye. QUESTIONS. 1. Relate the story of Judith. 2. Why should Judith be known today? 3. Compare Esther and Judith in as many respects as you can. 4. Which would you rather be, if you could be either? Why? 5. Which do you think a man would admire the more? Why? 6. In what respects have our standards undergone a change since the days of Judith? 7. In what respects could we profit today from the character of Judith? Explain.