[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL. | Author: Unknown]

RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL.
			________
Dear Mrs. Scott:
	I am as pleased to hear from you as though
I had met an old friend. I had been wonder-
ing what had become of you, and if you had
forgotten where we lived. I perceive by your
letter that the hand of affliction has been upon
your children, and that in answer to your
prayers they have been healed. The Lord
may have an object in this; He knows that
your heart is turned towards His people, but
preadventure your name is dearer to you than
the approbation of your Heavenly Father.
Weigh this matter over, my sister. He hath
shown kindness to you in the hour of trial, He
may expect something in return; He is a good
paymaster, be not afraid to serve Him, He will
not turn you away empty. You say in your
letter that you would give anything for the
faith the ancient children possessed. Faith
comes by hearing the word of God. Now my
dear sister, you have had a great many testi-
monies borne to you by the handmaidens of the
Lord, and that in humility and , sincerity;
these may stand against you in the day of
judgment. It is said that the Spirit of God
shall not always strive with man. And inas-
much as the Lord himself has condescended to
come down in our day and bring His Son with
Him and introduce Him to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, then an unlearned youth in his early
teens, you and I, and all who have heard the
sound of the Everlasting Gospel, must
stand accountable before heaven. When
Joseph went into the Woods and asked the
Father to show him which of the sects of the
day was right, the powers of darkness came
upon him in so much that he could not speak
or move, and he supposed he would be destroyed.
Then he saw a light descending gradually until
it reached the tops of the trees and supposed
they would be consumed; but instead thereof
two personages appeared, whose glory was
brighter than the noon-day sun. And one,
pointing to the other, said “This is my beloved
Son, hear Him.” The Lord told Joseph that
none of the churches of the day were His, and
that they had a form of godliness but denied
the power thereof. Joseph received visits from
many heavenly beings, he received all the keys
and powers of the Gospel of the Son of God,
and that from the hands of those who held
them in the days of the Savior, but were killed


for the testimony they bore of Him. Who was
so fit to deliver the keys of baptism for the re-
mission of sins, as John the Baptist, who ad-
ministered that ordinance to the Son of God?
Who was so fit to deliver the keys of the
gathering dispensation as Moses, who gath-
ered ancient Israel.
	If God could walk and talk with Abraham,
and if Sarai his wife could hasten to make un-
leavened bread, and Abraham commanded his
servants to kill a calf and hasten to dress it
that his friends might partake of it, for you
will remember that God declared Abraham his
friend, is there anything unreasonable in His
coming down in our day? is the world not
wicked enough to need a reform? does He love
us less than when He sent his beloved Son to
die for us? On one occasion after his resurec-
tion He appeared to his disciples as they were
fishing by the water side; at first they did not
know him, but when they had recognized him
He tenderly asked, “Children, have ye any
meat?” then turning they beheld a fire kindled,
and fish prepared for them. It would seem
that although his home was in the courts of
glory, yet the love that burned in his bosom
for his brethren caused him still to linger near
them. If He could eclipse his glory and
minister to his disciples in former days, has He
not the same will and power to-day? has not
the world been fed on husks long enough? Are
we not a blessed people, having received the
truth fresh from the courts of heaven; not the
old musty opinions of men, but the “living
truth,” brought by messengers sent from the
presence of God.
	The work we are engaged in is of God; can
man overthrow it? no! a thousand times, no!
Do we fear the machinations of man? no! we
scorn the very name of fear! Men may oppress
and afflict us, and take our lives; but we are in
the hands of God, and He will cause all things
to work for our good. That He will give us
strength to serve him all our days is the most
that we ask.
		Yours most respectfully,
							M. L. M.
	Salt Lake City, March 11th, 1883.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The woman who invented the submarine
telegraph received but $10,000 for that which
brings Europe within speaking distance.

THE Unity Club will give one of their artis-
tic and brilliant entertainments at the theatre
on Monday evening, April 9th, in favor of the
Deseret Hospital. The object is entirely be-
venolent. An able committee of ladies are
busily engaged in the preparations assisted by
Bishop H. B. Clawson.

 THE lectures given in this city by Phil
Robinson, Esq., on his experience as a special
war correspondent were very entertaining.
His letters, telegrams and writings are bril-
liant and shrewd. His articles upon the
Mormon question have been exceedingly fair
though humorously written. Undoubtly he
is a genius, at any rate he is genial and spark-
ling.
 MISS Julia Thomas who came to this city
recently from New York City for her health,
has decided to remain during the spring.
She has quite a large class in elocution at the
Octagon and intends giving a series of lectures
on Physical Elocution and kindred topics.
Miss Thomas is a highly cultured lady, pleas-
ing in her address and will doubtless win many
friends during her sojourn here. The lady is
also a newspaper correspondent, traveling with
passes from the press.
 THERE is nothing in God’s word that
teaches us the inferiority of woman, and she
is the equal of man. I do not see why it is
more inappropriate for a woman to leave the


kitchen and needle to apply her talents to
higher planes, than for man to abandon the
labor of sawing wood and drawing water and
engage in more dignified employment. The
useful life is the healthy life, and any useful
employment is elevating. Life is serious, and
it ought to be industrious; idleness is a re-
proach to any one. That which makes indus-
try useful must be sought for; and industry, to
he useful, must be systematic.—Rev. Howard
Crosby.

	Men in Ireland often get elected to Parlia-
ment while they are in prison, while in this
country, if one half of the reports are true,
men are elected to Congress who ought to be
in prison.


[Column 1]
