General Conference of Relief Society The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held October 6, 1927. The conference consisted of two sessions, a general officers' meeting, held in the Bishop's Building at 10 a. M., and a general session for the public, held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at 2 p. M. The attendance at the general session was 2,300, and at the officers' meeting 444, with the following representation: General Board members 20; mission presidents 4; other mission representatives 4; stake presidents 53; counselors 69; secretary-treasurers 31; stake board members 132; ward presidents 131. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at both sessions of the conference. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister, was in charge of the music, and was assisted by Miss Edna Coray at the organ. Special musical features were: a solo by Mrs. Edward and a duet by Messrs. Charles and Earl Martin. Ushers for the conference were provided by Pioneer stake. OFFICERS' MEETING President Clarissa S. Williams We are very happy to meet you again, after six months of spring and summer work, and we are delighted that there arc so many here this morning in attendance as there are. The General Board members who have visited your stakes are very much pleased with the conditions which they have found, and with the work you are doing. About one-half of the stakes have been visited this year by the auxiliary heads, including, of course, the representative of the Relief Society. We know that in attendance this morning there are not as large a number of stake offi-. Cers as attended the regular annual meeting of the organization in April, but we are happy that there are as many as there are. We have asked the ward presidents to come, believing that it is better to have a full assembly, and that they will perhaps get some ideas in regard to their welfare work, or some other work which is being promulgated, and we are happy to greet them as well as the representatives of the stakes of the Church. I believe I can say to you that we have not been idle. I was just trying now to think whether the members of the General Board have had a summer vacation. We adjourn board meet- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 603 ings for the months of July and August, but these months are among the busiest of the year for us, because our visiting begins in July. We hope that the work which is given to you in your conventions is pleasing to you, and that you will feel that you are going to be able to get out of it some hints and helps which will assist you in your work during the Winter season. It is very difficult to prepare work for so many organizations working under such different conditions, but we are happy to say that the mission presidents are adapting the work to the needs of the people in the missions where they labor, and we have splendid reports of the results not only in the United States, but in the foreign missions. I would like to report that President and Mrs. James E. Talmage have been released now from their labors in the European mission, and that Elder John A. Widtsoe and his wife, Leah Dunford Widtsoe, have been appointed to take the place of President and Mrs. Talmage, and we feel sure that the splendid work which has been accomplished by Mrs. 'Talmage in her labors among the women of the European mission will be continued by Mrs. Widtsoe. The General Board is very pleased to announce that two hospital graduate nurses have been recipients of the Relief Society Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. They are Miss Florence West and Miss Irene L. Harris, of Ogden, Utah. They took the course in public health nursing given at the University of Washington, where they graduated. They are now both holding positions in the state where they are doing public health nursing. We are also pleased to announce that Miss Genevieve Thornton, who for a number of years was a social worker at the Relief Society headquarters, was the recipient of our Social Service Loan Fund. She took advanced training in the School of Social Service Adminstration of the University of Chicago, where she was graduated with her masters' degree for social work, Miss Thornton spent one summer as a resident at Hull House, where she was able to study settlement work at close range. She also spent one year as a field worker in Associated Charities of Chicago. We are very pleased to have Miss Thornton back in the welfare department, where she is case supervisor in charge of the family work. At the present time we have five nurses who are making use of the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Nurse Loan Fund, which provides that each applicant may receive $75 to assist her in her course in nursing. From a report from the Brigham Young University we learn that 100 girls have been benefitted by the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund. The L. D. S. Hospital has asked us to announce that with the proposed new addition to the hospital many additional nurses will be needed, and it is the plan of the hospital to enlarge the class. When the call is made for nurse students, it is hoped that 
 Relief Society women will assist in recruiting women for the work. It is the plan to improve the course by having some of the theoretical courses given at the University of Utah by the regular professors there. Other new features will be added to the course in training. Wuat Does THE Reiger Sociery MEAN To THE YounGc WoMAN Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer A few years ago as I sat in the audiences of the different meetings of the organizations of our Church, and heard men and women, older than I, whose parents were pioneers, say, "I know the gospel is true," I wondered at that time