GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 619 unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other, "This is my beloved Son, hear him!' "My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personage who stood above me in the light which of all the sects was right—and which | should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. "He again forbade me to join with any of them; and many other things did he say unto me, which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 84. Paragraphs 15-20.) The place:, A grove—one of "God's first temples," the pillars which were towering trees and the decorations sweet scented shrubbery —a hallowed spot, an out-of-door sanctuary where man met his Maker and his Redeemer or from which he saw them both and heard the voice of each, selected by a boy for a secret prayer and chosen by Divinities as a central point of interest and action that should shape the destiny of the human race from that time onward. And contribute to the happiness of the hosts of heaven forever. +9 The Persons: Joseph: The seer of promise, ordained in the spirit world; prophetically named more than thirty three centuries before his mortal birth; the child of divinely chosen parentage; the boy who had felt the pinch of poverty, the distress oif bodily pain, and the bitter anguish of bereavement; the youthful lover of learning, seeking knowledge by "study and by faith'; an ideal all unconscious of his ideality. His purpose at the place was to find the truth. He was there with a heart-hold on the 'iron rod" the word of God written by the Apostle James. He says, "So in accordance with this, my determination, I retired to the woods." Determination is the link between desire and action; it is the heart-hold. The Evil One: He who coveted the throne of God; the one who in heaven fought against free agency and was cast out as an "accuser of the brethren'; the ill adviser in the garden of Eden; the instigator of the first atheism, the prompter of the 
 first crime; the inspirer of the murderous Herod who sought to stay a dispensation by slaying the Christ child; the audacious " tempter to the Prince of Peace, the betrayer of the Lord. This "evil one" was there at the grove. His purpose was to cut off communication between man and God and thus, perchance, delay the event which would illuminate his iniquity—"'Reveal the Man of Sin." His stay upon the scene was short. He fled, as he always will, before "the light." The Father: The first of the Trinity; the president of the Godhead; the parent of our spirits;. The being who on earth begat the "Babe of Bethlehem," the one whose will Jesus came to do, the one of whose business the boy Christ spoke; the one whose voice was heard when John baptized the ''Lamb of God;" the one with whom the Savior pleaded in the Garden of Gethsemane; the one to whom the matchless martyr on the cross committed his spirit; that Father to whom the resurrected Redeemer ascended before permitting himself to be touched by any mortal; the Father to whom we pray. He was on the scene to prove once again the individual personality of himself and to introduce his son. The Son: The First Born of the spirit family of the Father; he the author of the plan for man's eternal life and exaltation; he the evident ideal of Isaac who was willingly bound upon the altar; he the "Son of Man" through his mother, and the Son of God through his Father; he who among men taught the ways of God and walked perfectly in his paths; he who while his body lay lifeless in the tomb unlocked the prison doors of the spirit world and took the gospel of deliverance to the captives there. He, the conqueror of death, "the first fruits of the resurrection;" he whose atonement was and is and ever will be proving the love of God for man and winning man's love for God. He in whose name we pray. He was a participant in this event to be seen with his Father, to be introduced by him and to become the chief source of all knowledge for the youth who there became a seer. The proceedings: When the movies of heaven face our planet and the broadcasting waves from above are set in harmony with a receiver on earth, the heavens open, distance is of no consideration for sight or sound; things are as real afar off as near by; voices are as distinct from another sphere as from a close-by rostrum. The Father's Introduction: Was there ever such a one before? A brief compound sentence, carrying a salutation, a revelation, and a commandment. Joseph's Questions: It is of record in substance only. It was a double question containing first the inquiry as to which of the'sects was right; and, second, which one should he join? In the light of the humility of the questioner and the majesty ~-" GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY. 621 of the one of whom it was asked, the absence of a reverential saluation seems improbable at least. The Son's Answer: The last part of the question was answered 'first. It was the big part of the inquiry, and it contanied the instruction to join none of the existing sects, and then the reasons were given. First, that they were all wrong. Whatever good there may have been in any one of them was not sufficient to make the sect acceptable to Christ. Second, the creeds were an abomination in his sight; and why not, when they provided for non-progression and the worship of a nonentity? He denounced an insincere ministry as corrupt, and then quoted the words of Paul in explanation of who the "professors" were. His denunciation of pretenders was no more aimed at the honesthearted than was his denunciation of the hypocritical Pharisees aimed at the good Samaritan. The form of godliness spoken of in the answer refers to a pretense of power and falsely founded claim to divine authority. "They deny the power thereof.' This is a declaration of the fact that by declaring the "cannon of scripture to be full," and "miracles to be things of the past,'' God was denied the power to communicate with or work for man. The answer in part was repeated. The greatest dispensator further instructed the latest dispensator, and the opening event of the dispensation of times became a part of history in heaven and on earth. It was no product of mind workings alone, no fabric of the imagination. It was reality in the production of which the glory of God and the mentality of man participated. It was the birth of a new kingdom, one divinely destined to occupy the whole earth and endure forever. It was an occasion for the universe to sing the then unwritten song: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! 'Zign's standard is unfurled; The dawning of a brighter day, Majestic rises on the world." Note. The first verse of the first hymn in our hymn book is said to be a matchless bit of Latter-day Saint descriptive literature. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Locate and describe the Sacred Grove. 2. Why may the sacred grove fittingly be called the birth place of modern seership? 3. What special interest had the "Evil One" in the opening event of this dispensation?; 4. What reason have we for flieving that one of the 
 specific purposes of the Father's presence in the opening event was once again to prove his individual personality? 5.' Show that the Father's introduction of Joseph to the Son contained a salutation, a revelation, and a command. 6. In his answer to Joseph's question, how did the Son show his appreciation of the scriptures? 7. Why were the creeds an abomination to the Son of God? 8. Describe why the ministers were included in the term "Professors" in the answer to Joseph's question. 9. Why, in your opinion, did the Lord answer the second question of Joseph first? 10. How was the power of God denied by the creeds and clergy of the time? 11. Correlate Daniel 2:44 with the lesson statement that the event was the birth of a kingdom, etc. 'Work and Business LESSON II WORK AND BUSINESS oO (Second Week in February) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY—HOME I. Relationship of Parents and Children. "The technique of home control rests upon individual responsibility—the attitude of parents to children and children to parents." IJ. Home—"The Laboratory of Character." a. Parents Responsibility. To teach by precept and example ethical and religious ideals. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 68. B. Proper attitude of children to parents and to each other. "Obedience to law and authority is the corner stone in the edifice of order," GUIDE LESSONS FOR: FEBRUARY 623 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) CARL SANDBURG When Counselor Jennie B. Knight visits tie East she sometimes stops at a city called Galesburg, in Illinois, to visit her cousin. It was in this city, January 6, 1878, that Carl Sandburg was born. There was nothing regular about his attendance at school as a boy. At thirteen years of age he was at work on a milk wagon. Louis Untermeyer has told his story for the next six years in the following language: "During the next six years he was in rapid succession porter in a barber shop, scene shifter in a cheap theatre, truck handler in a brick yard, turner apprentice in a pottery, dish washer in Denver and Omaha _ hotels, harvest hand in Kansas wheatfields." Such a breadth of experience was fitting him for the very type of poetry to which he afterwards turned. During the Spanish American War, in 1898, Sandburg was a member of Company C, Sixth Illinois Volunteers. After his return from Porto Rico he entered the college of his native town and for the first time began to give attention to writing. While in college he was Editor-in-chief of the college paper. To this activity he added any work that came to hand in order to remain in school. He was advertising manager for a department store and on the staff of a business magazine. He became a safety first expert, his articles on accident prevention attracting enough attention to bring forth an invitation for him to speak before the manufacturers convention where he talked about machinery safeguards and methods that might be employed to guard against accident in industry. His first publication was a volume of twenty-two poems appearing in 1904. Chicago Poems were published in 1916; Cornhuskers, in 1918; Smoke and Steel, in 1920; Slaves of the Sunburnt West, in 1923. Sandberg has been on the staff of the Chicago Daily News since 1919, He lives at Elmhurst, Illinois, close to Chicago, yet far enough away to enjoy nature in her verdant garb, and the tinkling of waterfalls. It was our pleasure to hear Carl Sandburg read a number of his poems in the summer of 1922. He has an athletic appearance, consequently it is not surprising to learn that he was a member of the baseball team in his college days at Galesburg. When reading he emphasized the rhythm of many of his lines by accompanying" them with the trum-trum of a string instrument. At times it was the banjo and at other times the guitar. Many people have admired Carl Sandburg's vigor. If you chance to have a copy of Untermeyer's Modern American Poetry a 
 you might read to the class his poem "Chicago." In this poem he refers to Chicago as the "Hog Butcher" for the world. Later on he says, "they tell me you are wicked and I believe them, and they tell me you are crooked and J answer, yes, itis true. I have seen the gunmen kill and go free to kill again." This poem has increasing significance from the fact that in October one of the magazines published an article entitled "Hands Up, Chicago!" in which the statement is made that during the past six years practically 1,800 murders have been committed in Cook county, the county in which Chicago is situated, and that 42 polilcemen have lost their lives. This is mainly the work of the gunmen that Sandburg is talking about. Some people do not call this type of verse poetry; they say that such observations are purely intellectual and wholly lacking the emotional quality. Other people feel that when a writer has the power to condense so much in so few words that he does present to us a picture that. Makes strong appeal, and that such appeal is a poem. Another poem similar to "Chicago" is a poem called "Joliet" that suggests the city in Illinois where the state penitentiary is located. This is realistic like the first: JOLIET On the one hand the steel works. On the other hand the penitentiary. Sante Fe trains and Alton trains Between smokestacks on the west, And gray walls on the east, And Lockport down the river. Part of the valley is God's, And part is man's. The river course laid out A thousand years ago, The canals ten years back. The sun on two canals and one river Makes three Stripes of silver Or copper and gold Or shattered sunflower leaves. Talons of an iceberg Scraped out this valley. Claws of an avalanche loosed here. We have already noted a number of our modern American poets who have written of Abraham Lincoln. The poem "Knucks" is full of a delicate irony relating to the morality of that city: KNUCKS _In Abraham Lincoln's city, Where they remember his lawyer's shingle, The place where they brough him GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 625 Wrapped in battle flags, Wrapped in the smoke of memories From Tallahassee to the Yukon, The place where they brought him Points white against the blue prairie dome, In Abraham Lincoln's city * * * I saw knucks In the window of Mister Fischman's second-hand store On Second Street. I went in and asked, "How much?". "Thirty cents apiece,' answered Mister Fischman. And taking a box of new ones off a shelf He filled anew the box in the showcase And said, incidentally, most casually And incidentally: "T sell a carload a month of these." I slipped my fingers into a set of knucks, Cast-iron knucks molded in a foundry pattern, And there came to me a set of thoughts like these: Mister Fischman is for Abe and the "malice to none" stuff, And the street car strikers and the strike-breakers, And the sluggers, gunmen, detectives, policemen, Judges, utility heads, newspapers, priests, lawyers, They are all for Abe and the "malice to none" stuff. I started for the door. "Maybe you want a lighter pair," Came Mister Fischman's voice. I opened the door * * * and the voice again: "You are a funny customer." Wrapped in battle flags, Wrapped in the smoke of memories, This is the place they brought him, This is Abraham Lincoln's home town. One of the tender poems dedicated to men who have mace the supreme sacrifice in war is Sandburg's "Grass": GRASS Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and' Waterloo. Shovel them under and let me work— I am the grass; I cover all. And pile them high at Gettysburg, And pile them high at Ypres and Verdun. Shovel them under and let me work. Two years, ten years, and passengers ask the conductor; What place is this? Where are we now? I am the grass. Let me work. 
 If there seems to be something of crass realism in such poems as "Chicago" and "Joliet" there is certainly a delicacy of feeling in "Grass" that must appeal to persons of the most refined sensibilities. "Drumnotes" takes us back to Europe during the great World War. It pictures first Jaures, who was killed in a restaurant in the Montmartre district, just before the war, a man who was regarded, perhaps, as the chief orator among the French. Ten years after his death he was brought from his native province. His casket lay in state for twenty-four hours in the Chamber of Deputies, and the next day, accompanied by a very unusual procession, was taken to the Pantheon there to lie with Victor Hugo in that place where only the greatest of Frenchmen are buried. Then he speaks of Kitchener of Khartoum who most likely was lost on the high seas during those troublesome and tragic days on water. Then he returns to Franz Josef, the veteran ruler of the Austrian Empire, who lies, he says, "in a tomb with the Hapsburg fathers, moths eating the green uniform to tatters, the worms taking all and leaving only the bones, gold buttons and iron crosses."' Yet Carl Sandburg writes other poems that are not so heavy and sombre as "Drumnotes." A "Crimson Rambler" is a good example of this type: CRIMSON RAMBLER Now that a crimson rambler begins to crawl over the house of our two lives— Now that a red curve winds across the shingles— Now that hands washed in early sunrises climb and spill scarlet on a white lattice weave— Now that loop of blood is written on our roof and reaching around a chimney— How are the two lives of this house to keep strong hands and strong hearts? Carl Sandburg seems to be very fond of roses of all varieties. In his poem "Three Violins" he appeals not only to the sense of sight, but to the sense of sound, by suggesting the beautiful melody of MacDowell's "To a Wid Rose": THREE VIOLINS Three violins are trying their hearts. The piece is MacDowell's Wild Rose. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 627 And the time of the wild rose And the leaves of the wild rose And the dew-shot eyes of the wild rose Sing in the air over three violins. Somebody like you was in the heart of MacDowell. Somebody like you is in three violins. And so Carl Sandburg continues: At one time it is the picture of the rush and roar and crime of a modern city that he gives us, at another time he tells us how gently the grass seeks to obliterate the places where many men have been buried because of the ravages of war. In yet another poem he says, how dare you people in the city of Springfield, Illinois, where the great champion of "malice toward none" lies buried, boast of selling knucks, or of strikes and slaves and gunmen. ~ Questions and Problems 1. Why does Carl Sandburg call Chicago the "Hog Butcher" for the world? 2.. Why does he say in his description of Joliet that part of the valley of God's and part of the valley is man's? 3. Compare this poem on Abraham Lincoln with poems found in editorial columns of February, 1927, and tell im what respect it is very different from the other poems. ~ +4, What is the significance of the lines "wrapped in the. Smoke of memories from Tallahassee to the Yukon?" 5. Franz Josef's life was a life of very many tragedies and disappointments. Have someone, tell in brief the outstanding events of his life. This material may be found in an up-to-date encyclopedia or in the world's history. 6. Have somebody play the music of MacDowell's "To a Wild Rose" and then read the poem. 7. Discuss this proposition: There is need in our modern life for a poet who can give us a realistic presentation of the life of our own time. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson II. THE CuiLp's INSTINCTS AND IMPULSES Based on Chapter 2 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs In Lesson 1 we discussed the ways in which science is bridging the gap between what we know about child training and what we actually put into practice. The reader will recall that we 
 considered three main points (1) axferiments in applying the principles of individual development to school promotion; (2) scientific work in laboratory schools and (3) physical development and school progress. The main point in the last lesson to keep in mind is that since far-reaching changes in education are now taking place, we must make sure that we—parents and teachers alike—keep pace with this advance. In this lesson (Lesson 2) we are going to consider certain important behavior-tendencies in childhood; instincts and impulses which call for careful handling, if wholesome personalities are to be the result. (The author of chapters 2 and 3 in The Child: His Nature and His Needs is Dr. Mary T. Whitley, assistant professor of education at Columbia University, an authority on the subject.) A. How INSTINCTS AND IMPULSES ARE CONTROLLED (Pages 31-35) One big difference between man and the animals is the length of the period of dependency. The young animal is comparatively well developed at birth and soon matures, but the young child is very fragile when born and matures slowly. About onefourth of the average human being's life is a period of physical and mental immaturity. This means that the infant is not an adult in miniature, but rather a bundle of impulses and instincts,—the raw materials out of which complicated behavior patterns and the adult personality are later built. The chief point to remember with regard to instincts and impulses is that they cannot be suppressed; they can, however, be directed and socialized. The wise guidance of the child's original tendencies is the chief task of the parent and teacher. The principles by which these instincts and impulses can be wisely directed, are summarized in chapter 2 of the text. Questions 1. What are the rules for effectively strengthening the right impulses in childhood? Give several examples illustrating these principles. 2. What is meant by substitution and sublimation as ways of re-directing original tendencies? Give several examples of each. B. ANGER AND Its CoNTROL (Pages 35-37) Anger is one of the instinctive emotions. It has played a tremendous part in human survival and the evolution of man. Just how necessary it is to life under civilized conditions is a matter of conjecture. The fact remains, however, that anger is % GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 629 one of the behavior patterns and tendencies with which all persons are equipped at birth. The tendency to anger cannot he eliminated. It must be wisely directed. Crying is a common form of anger reaction. The child relies upon it to secure many needed satisfactions. The fact that as children grow older they cry less is proof of the statement attributed to one psychologist, that crying is an "expression of baffled helplessness." Many older children, even many adults, still cry when angry or when facing a crisis. This constitutes - something of a handicap and implies that the person's emancipation from childhood has not been effective or complete. Questions 1. What general principle underlies the effective control of anger? What are some of the practical aids in this control? 2. Can you cite examples of children known to you who become angry upon the slightest provocation? What effect does this have upon a child's personality? On the other hand, do you know children who never get angry? Is this danger equally serious? Why? C. Tue SExuAL LIFE oF THE CHILD (Pages 37-42) A faulty sex adjustment is responsible for more warped and twisted personalities than possibly any other single cause. And one of the main reasons for this condition is the wholly inadequate - sex guidance which most children get in their formative years. Infancy and childhood are the golden periods for the effective guidance of the sex impulses, and the responsibility for it rests squarely upon the parent. The normal child becomes sexconscious at about the age of two years, and all of his future sex attitudes hinge upon the form of control employed at this critical period. Two extremes are to be avoided in the sex education of children: the danger of silence and taboo, on the one hand and the too frequent and morbid discussion of the subject, on the other. A middle-of-the-road position and an attitude of frankness are the best policies to pursue. (This topic will be discussed again in chapter 15, along with the problems of adolescence. It is suggested, also, that the clumsy terms, detumescence and contrectation, which appear on pages 37 to 39, be disregarded as unimportant and confusing. ) Questions 1. What is meant by the author's statement that bedroom and bathroom manners need as much attention as do table and parlor manners? 2. Looking back on your own sex life, what do you think 
 are (a) the essential things to teach children about sex, and (b) the best times to bring these matters to their attention? 3. How may the sex impulses of children be sublimated? Cite examples, from your own observations, of children whose sex energies are (or are not) successfully socialized. R D. FEAR AND Its GUIDANCE (Pages 42-45) Someone has called fear and worry, the "twin demons," because of their disorganizing effect upon personality. One of the commonest * conditions which modern psychiatry is called upon to cope with is fear in its various forms. The significant thing is that most of the fears and horrors of the neurotic adult can usually be traced to the experiences of early childhood. Most fears are learned. Only two of them, as Watson points out, are original,—fear -of a sudden, loud noise, and fear of falling. That is to say, most fears are contagious: children become afraid of the dark, of thunder and lightning, etc., largely because they observe these fear reactions in the elders. Bertrand. Russell puts the matter thus: "Rational apprehension of dangers is necessary; fear is not. A child cannot apprehend dangers without some element of fear, but this element is very much diminished when it is not present in the instructor, A grown-up person in charge of a child should never feelfear. That is one reason why courage should be cultivated in women just as much as ) " in men.; This same writer,—in his stimulating book, Education and the Good Life, (Boni & Liveright, New York, 1927), makes the suggestion that: "Whatever either terrifies or interests the child should be explained if it is at all possible; this transforms fear into scientific interest hy a process which is ventifely along the lines of instinct and repeats the history of the race.' ] Questions 1. What is the value of fear? Since fear, like the other instinctive emotions cannot be suppressed, what are the effective ways cf coping with it? 2. Of what objects or situations, if any, should children be afraid? 3. Take pencil and paper and make a list of the fears which you have. Observed in children and adults of your acquaintance. Consider now each one of these fears separately in the light of the question: What kind of parental guidance might have prevented these fears from: developing? The Main Point in Lesson 2: Human instincts and impulses, such as anger, love, fear, collecting, etc., cannot be suppressed: they must be allowed expression. Their expression must be guided, however, and not left to chance. The proper guidance of these tendencies in children is the chief responsibility of parents. @ \ - ictency-- An outstanding feature in all O. P. Skaggs System stores is efficiency. The convenient arrangement of stocks, conspicuous price tags, accessible meat, fruit and vegetable departments, merchandise of finest quality and prompt and accurate service at our check stands, means efficiency, and combines to make' marketing a pleasure in our stores. Address: P. O.