Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 1924 AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS The Auxiliary Group Convention season with the Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations cooperating, will open July 19, 1924, and will extend through the months of August, September, October and November. The plan heretofore adopted of holding these conventions in connection with the regular quarterly conferences of the stakes will be followed. The whole of the first day of the conference, usually Saturday, and the forenoon of the second day, usually Sunday, will be devoted to meetings of the auxiliaries. A regular quarterly conference session will be held at 2 p.m. In the afternoon of the second day, usually Sunday. The schedule of meetings has been simplified, tewer meetings are programed, but the work is none the less intensive and thorough. The general plan contemplates a joint meeting of the members of all auxiliary stake boards, separate meetings of the stake boards of each auxiliary, with stake and ward officers, a public meeting giving each auxiliary opportunity to present its message and appeal to the people. And an interview of the general representatives with their respective stake superintendencies or presidencies and secretaries. The stake and ward music committees and stake and ward recreation committees will also meet. 364 " An attendance contest among auxiliary associations is planned. The stake and ward organizations will vie with each other for first honors for attendance of their workers at convention meetings. One hundred per cent attendance of all stake board members and a full representation from each ward will be sought. Programs of the meetings will be distributed to stake and ward presiding authorities. Other necessary, general and special instructions will be sent out from the office of the General Board. The success of the convention in each stake and for each organization depends upon the full cooperation, support, and attendance of stake board and ward workers, and the conventions are planned with no other thought except that every convention will be thoroughly successful. Parowan Stake. The attendance in Parowan stake was greatly increased in 1923, as a result of a contest for pictures offered as prizes, the pictures later to be hung in the Relief Society rooms. Tongan Mission. Mrs. Lavera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Society in the Tongan mission, writes : "I am inclosing the report of the Tongan Relief Societies for 1923. I feel that although we are greatly hindered through having no text or reference books, the Relief Societies are a strong factor for good in our missionary work. "There are three conferences in this mission, viz., Vavau, Haapai, and Togatabu, and all three donated liberally towards the mission chapel. The Vavau branch bought material for the
new Church school dormitory. This branch also donated half the necessary funds for buying a small cutter (sail boat) for the use of the missionaries and local priesthood in that conference.
"The Neiafu members (four in number) sent to Salt Lake City for an individual sacrament set of which they are justly proud. The Haapai ward spent all their cash on hand, as well as their time and energy, caring for one of the elders through his sickness and burial. Our women throughout the whole mission have attracted much attention through their splendid charity work during the past year, which has been extended to 'Mormons' and non-'Mormons' alike." Morgan Stake.
At the recent Relief Society conference held in Morgan stake, a splendid attendance record was made, there being 60%o f the enrolled members present. Among the interesting numbers on the program were a talk on women as citizens, and law enforcement, and a demonstration of the use of the teachers' topic in a home. Bingham. Stake. The Relief Societies of Bingham stake have many accomplishments to their credit for 1923. They contributed $2,400 to furnish twelve rooms of the Idaho Falls Hospital, besides: sewing 1,864 pieces, including sheets, pillow cases, curtains, towels, napkins, surgical garments, etc. They are at present giving one afternoon a month to hospital sewing. A joint meeting of. The Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary was held in this stake recently in connection with. The Priesthood conference, in which welfare work was discussed. The Idaho Falls Post says of this meeting: "A health conference, to be conducted by the State-Department of Public Welfare, under the direction of Dr. F. W. Almond, state health examiner, and his assistants, is to be held ? in Idaho Falls during the first week of August according to an announcement made Saturday afternoon at the Mothers' meeting conducted under the auspices of the various branches of the L. D.'S. Church. "This will be the first time in the history of Bonneville county that a free clinic will be held for the examination of mothers. Maternity and Infant Welfare were announced as the two subjects which will come in for the greatest consideration this year, and in an address given by Mrs. S. J. Ewin of the state bureau of child hygiene, at the meeting Saturday afternoon, this subject was handled in a most enlightening way. Resolutions were adopted in which it was resolved that the young people of Bonneville county should be better educated and' prepared for parenthood and home making; that higher ideals be instilled into the sons and daughters for parenthood, and great stress was laid on the necessity of teaching parenthood in the public schools. "It was also resolved by the organization to advocate the aid, in a financial and educational way, of the cause of maternity and infant welfare, and a further resolution resented the attitude of an individual or organization who would sacrifice the life of a mother and child for material gain. "Two very instructive and enjoyable meetings were conducted, in the morning and afternoon, on Saturday, under the direction of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. And the Primary department. "The meetings were presided over by Mrs. James Laird, president of the Bingham stake Relief Society."