GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER . 369 "Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged." This parable was given to show the relation between forgiveness and love: that where there is much of one, there is an abundance of the other. Forgiveness not only begets love in the heart of the one who is forgiven but it develops love in the heart of the one who forgives. The parable was also a polite rebuke to the unforgiveness of the Pharisee at whose house Jesus was a guest. By reference to verse thirty-nine it will be seen that on that occasion Jesus read the mind of his hypocritical host and answered his unexpressed opinion of Jesus as to whether he was a prophet or an impostor. For an understanding of the setting and the circumstance of this parable a study of Luke 7-37-50 should be made. It should be clearly kept in mind that in the light of the life of Jesus, it cannot be thought that sinning to be forgiven that we may love. Or be loved is taught by this parable. The woman had not transgressed to be forgiven but through weakness and having repented she came to Jesus for an authoritative release from the thraldom of her iniquity, and having 'been forgiven, her gratitude brought her to Jesus with gifts expressive of her appreciation of his power and generosity of spirit. The Parable of the Prodigal Son?Luke 15:11-32. - "And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no mangave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have 'bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet - Js LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September) LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES?Continued In our last lesson on Holmes, we emphasized his genial nature, a nature that radiated sunshine as definitely as any light or heat center radiates light and warmth. In Edward Bok's famous autobiography, he tells us of his visit to Holmes. It is so interesting that we shall include part of it in this lesson: Bok arrived in Boston on. Sunday evening; and the first thing he did was to dispatch a note, by messenger, to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, announcing the important fact that he was there, and what his errand was, and asking whether he might come up and see Dr. Holmes any time the next day. Edward naively told him that he could come as early as Dr. Holmes liked?by breakfast time, he was assured, as Edward was all alone! Dr. Holmes' amusement at this ingenuous note may be imagined. Within the hour the boy brought back this answer: "My Dear Boy:?I shall certainly look for you tomorrow morning at eight o'clock to have a piece of pie with me. That is real New England, you know. "Very cordially yours, "Oliver Wendell Holmes." Edward was there at eight o'clock. Strictly speaking, he was there at seven-thirty, and found the author already at his desk in that room overlooking the Charles River, which he learned in after years to know better. "Well," was the cheery greeting, "you couldn't wait until eight for your breakfast, could you? Neither could I, when I was a boy. I used to have my breakfast at seven," and then telling the boy all about his boyhood, the cheery poet led him to the dining-room, and for the first time he breakfasted away from home and ate pie?and that with "The 'Autocrat' at his own breakfast table! A cosier time no boy could have had. Just the two were there, and the smiling face that looked out over the plates and cups gave GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER .. 373 the boy courage to tell all that this trip was going to mean to him. "And you have come on just to see us, have you?" chuckled the poet, "Now, tell me, what good do you think you will get out of it?" He was told what the idea was: that every successful man had something to tell a boy, that would be likely to help him, and that Edward Bok wanted to see the men who had written books that people enjoyed. Dr. Holmes could not conceal his amusement at all this. When breakfast was finished, Doctor Holmes said: "Do you know that I am a full-fledged carpenter? No? Well, I am. Come into my carpenter shop." And he led the way into a front-basement room where there was a complete carpenter's outfit. "You know I am a doctor," he explained, "and this shop is my medicine. I believe that every man must have a hobby that is as different from his regular work as it is possible to be. It is not good for a man to work all the time at one thing. So this is my hobby. This is my change. I like to putter away at these things. Every day I try to come down here for an hour or so. It rests me because it gives my mind a complete change. For, whether you believe it or not," he added with his inimitable chuckle, "to make a poem and to make a chair are two very different things."
"Now," he continued, "if you think you can learn something from me, learn that, and remember it when you are a man. Don't keep always at your business, whatever it may be. It makes no difference how much you like it. The more you like it, the more dangerous it is. When you grow up you will understand what I mean by an 'outlet'?a hobby, that is?in your life, and it must be so different from your regular work that it will take your thoughts into an entirely different direction. We doctors call it a safety-valve, and it is. I would much rather," concluded the poet, "you would forget all that I have ever written than that you should forget what I tell you about having a safety-valve."
"And now do you know," smilingly said the poet, "about the Charles River here?" as they returned to his study and stood before the large bay window. "I love this river," he said. "Yes, I love it," he repeated; "I love it in summer or in winter." And then he was quiet for a minute or so.
Edward asked him which of his poems were his favorites.
"Well," he said musingly, "I think The Chambered Nautilus is my most finished piece of work, and I suppose it is my favorite. But there are also: The Voiceless, My Aviary, written at this window, The Battle of Bunker Hill, and Dorothy Q., written to the portrait of my great-grandmother which you see on the wall there. All these I have a liking for, and when I speak of the 
poems I like best there are two others that ought to be included?Bill and Joe and The Last Leaf. I think these are among my best."
"What is the history of The Chambered Nautilus?" Edward asked.
"It has none," came the reply, "it wrote itself. So, too, did The One-Hoss Shay. That was one of those random conceptions that gallop through the brain, and that you catch by the bridle. I caught it and reined it. That is all."
Holmes was undoubtedly right in regarding The Chambered Nautilus as his most finished poem. In this estimate, Whittier joined by remarking that the poem was "booked for immortality." The last stanza of the poem maintains the New England tradition that a poem is of little worth unless it teaches some moral lesson. But the nobility of its conception and the beauty of its expression, makes it one of the most pleasing stanzas as well as one of the most quotable bits in all of our American literature.
This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main,? The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair.
Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed,? Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.
Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:? 
"Your name may flaunt a titled trail Proud as a cockerel's rainbow tail, And mine as brief appendix wear As Tam O'Shanter's luckless mare; Today, old friend, remember still That I am Joe and you are Bill.
"You've won the great world's envied prize, And grand you look in people's eyes, With HON. And LL.D., In big brave letters, fair to see,? Your fist, old fellow! Off they go!? How are you, Bill?- How are you, Joe?"
The three stanzas included will give a definite idea of the spirit and trend of the poem. We suggest, that if time permits, the entire poem be read to the class.
The Old Man Dreams was written in 1854. The assumption is that the responsibilities of life are cast off and an hour of youthful joy indulged in. We also include this poem that you may feel the youthful soul that permeates it.
"Oh for one hour Of youthful joy! Give back my twentieth spring! I'd rather laugh, a bright-haired boy, Than reign, a gray-haired king.
"Off with the spoils of wrinkled age! Away with Learning's crown! Tear out life's Wisdom-written page, And dash its trophies down!
"One moment let my life-blood stream From boyhood's fount of flame! Give me one giddy, reeling dream Of life all love and fame!
"My listening angel heard the prayer, And, calmly smiling, said, 'If I but touch thy silvered hair Thy hasty wish hath sped.
"'But is there nothing in thy track, To bid thee fondly stay, While the swift seasons hurry back To find the wished-for day?'
"Ah, truest soul of womankind! Without thee what were life? One bliss I cannot leave behind: I'll take?my?precious?wife!
"The angel took a sapphire pen And wrote in rainbow dew, The man would be a boy again, And be a husband too!
"And is there nothing yet unsaid, Before the change appears? Remember, all their gifts have fled With those dissolving years"
"Why, yes;' for memory would recall My fond paternal joys; 'I could not bear to leave them all? I'll take?my?girl?and?boys.'
"The smiling angel dropped his pen? 'Why, this will never do; The man would be a boy again, And be a father too!'
"And so I laughed,?my laughter woke The household with its noise,? And wrote my dream, when morning broke, To please the gray-haired boys."
Has there any old fellow got mixed with the boys? If there has, take him out, without making a noise. Hang the Almanac's cheat and the Catalogue's spite! Old Time is a liar! We're twenty tonight!
We're Twenty! We're Twenty! Who says we are more? He's tipsy,?young jackanapes!?show him the door! "Gray temples at twenty?"?Yes! White if you please; Where the snow-flakes fall thickest there's nothing can freeze!
Was it snowing I spoke of? Excuse the mistake! Look close,?you will see not a sign of a flake! We want some new garlands for those we have shed,? And these are white roses in place of the red.
We've a trick, we young fellows, you may have been told, Of talking (in public) as if we were old:? That boy we call "Doctor," and this we call "Judge;" It's a neat little fiction,?of course it's all fudge.
That fellow's the "Speaker,"?the one on the right; "Mr. Mayor," my young one, how are you tonight? That's our "Member of Congress," we say when we chaff; There's the "Reverend"? What's his name??don't make me laugh.
That boy with the grave mathematical look Made believe he had written a wonderful book, And the ROYAL SOCIETY thought it was true! So they chose him right in; a good joke it was, too!
There's a boy, we pretend, with a three-decker brain, That could harness a team with a logical chain; When he spoke for our manhood in syllabled fire, We called him "The Justice," but now he's "The Squire."
And there's a nice youngster of excellent pith,? Fate tried to conceal him by naming him Smith; But he shouted a song for the brave and the free,? Just read on his medal, "My country," "of thee!" 
gone the demoralizing strain of a long period of failure and misfortune. This process of losing health and hope and friends is usually a gradual and insidious one, brought about by a sequence of disheartening events. Therefore, the building-up process, the renewing of the physical and mental powers cannot be accomplished in a moment. Because of the growth of the desired positive values is slow, and often meets with apparent failure for a time, superficial treatment cannot be effective. Intensive and tireless and prolonged effort is needed to effect the desired changes in individuals and the forces that influence their development.
It is impossible, of course, to outline a general plan of treatment for certain types of social ailments. The plan to rehabilitate delinquents, for instance, cannot be the same for each one. What course is advisable to follow must be determined by the individual personality, his physical and mental and emotional make-up, his background, his capabilities, and the resources that the home and the community have to offer. Just such information and understanding is needed also to guide the future of any person who is in difficulty?whether he is one who has failed economically or one who evades the responsibility of caring for his family. Because treatment cannot be administered by a prescribed formula, the task of aiding people who are not succeeding is extremely difficult. It is possible, only, to indicate certain ends that may be attained, and a general method that may be used in accomplishing these ends.
It is essential in planning a course of social treatment to determine, quite definitely, what achievement is possible in a particular situation. Serious thought must be given to both the handicaps, or liabilities, that have stood in the way of normal adjustment, and also to the potentialities, or assets, that indicate possibilities for growth and development. The handicaps should be removed, if possible, and if not, they should be understood as permanent disadvantages to the individual. At the same time the potentialities of the situation should be developed. The individual should be restored to health if he is ill, should be trained for suitable employment if he has met with industrial disability, should be made to assume responsibilities if he has been evading them, should be relieved of worry and strain if the burden he has been carrying has been too heavy, should be connected with friends and relatives and church if he has become estranged from them during his period of distress. The process of treatment is the elimination of undesirable elements in the situation and the fostering and strengthening of the powers and traits and connections that are desirable.
Perhaps the treatment administered in the following simple illustration will show the processes involved. A woman who had
been ill for some time, was sure that she would not recover, so wanted to place her eight-year-old boy in a good home, so that she would have no further worry about his future. After some study and interpretation and treatment, the child was kept with the mother, but only after certain handicaps had been removed and certain possibilities for adjustment had been created. The handicaps to be removed were the mother's ill health; her discouragement, and her strong conviction that her plan was her only recourse. The assets in the situation on which the treatment was based, were the assurance, given by the physician, after an examination, that the mother's health could be restored, her willingness to be guided by what would be best for the child, and her strong desire to have him with her. So her consent was finally gained to have the boy placed temporarily, instead of permanently, and with renewed hope she submitted herself to medical treatment which resulted in a gradual recovery of health and courage, and later in her economic independence.
Questions and Problems
1. Explain in some detail the three processes used in solving a social problem.
2. Why is treatment the final test? Why is it often discouraging?
3. Why is the treatment of a juvenile offender likely to be more successful than the treatment of an older offender?
4. Why is an understanding of the mental and physical and emotional make-up of a person necessary, when treatment is being planned for him?
5. Show how the plan in the incident might have failed, if the person interested in the mother had not been skillful in changing mental attitudes.