[Vol16 | January 1929 | Sequence: 16c | Category: Article | Title: Hamlin Garland's Trilogy | Author: Louis V. Hales]

Hamlin Garland's Trilogy

A Son of the Middle Border, A Daughter of the Middle Border, Trail-Makers of the Middle Border By Lois V. Hales
Our most consistent contributor to the pioneer history of the Western frontier is Hamlin Garland. Critics say that if the 'great American novel' is ever written, it is probable that it will be Hamlin Garland who will write it. Mr. J. M. Chapple states that even though he might be in a city hotel with Mr. Garland he feels as if he were sitting in the home of a sturdy pioneer. Mr. Garland is particularly fitted to write of the pioneer days on the Western frontier. He was born in West Salem, Wisconsin, in 1860. He grew up in the woods of Wisconsin and the prairies of Iowa, and at one time took up "a claim" in Dakota. A great traveler, he is intimately acquainted with our country from Alaska to Central America. He was educated at the Cedar Valley Seminary and began to write in 1877. His pen is still busy. At the present time he is especially interested in the American Indian, whose origin he is endeavoring to fathom.
A Son of the Middle Border relates the story of Hamlin Garland's boyhood days on the Western frontier, and has become an American classic. It tells vividly of his early literary enthusiasms and his plunge into letters. Many critics say it is unquestionably his masterpiece.
A Daughter of the Middle Border carries his autobiography down to a later date, and narrates parallel with it the history of the charming girl who became his wife.
Trail-Makers of the Middle Border tells the story of Garland's father and mother and of the time in which they lived. When in the winter of '49 glowing tales of the golden sands, the flourishing prairies, the green pastures, and the lush waters of the West reached Richard Graham (in reality, Hamlin Garland's father) he left the bleak, drab farm in Vermont and took up a farm in southwestern Wisconsin. Richard soon fell in love with the pretty daughter of his Scotch neighbor. Years of home-building followed. During the summer months he labored at sowing and reaping. In the winter he joined the lumberjacks in their logging adventures on the waters of the turbulent Wisconsin River. Then came the Civil War. Richard joined the forces of the Union and "served it vaguely and General Grant very definitely." One of the finest things about Trail-Makers of the Middle Border is Garland's description of the Civil War and the part General Grant played in it. He thus describes Grant: "The silent, brownish-red bearded failure of forty, battling grimly to eminence against the hostility of the politicians. While high commissions were being recklessly given to civilians who knew nothing of arms or military discipline, the West Point graduate, the trained soldier of many campaigns, could not even win an audience to present his cause. * * Then overnight, almost, he became to the West 'Our General.' The President asked: 'Who is this man Grant, who fights battles and wins them?'"
But the best thing about Garland's trilogy is the picture he gives us of pioneering days in the North Middle West. His descriptions of the new, undeveloped country are poetic and true. His descriptions of the days of the two-wheeled ox-carts, crooked scythes, and high spinning wheels are classic. He has thoroughly appreciated the heroism of the pioneer. He has realized the beauty and the cruelty of the forests and prairies of the West. We get a fine picture of the drudgery, the dirt, the soul-grinding poverty of pioneer life. We realize, perhaps as never before, the physical energy required of the successful pioneer. "Up at break of day, eating their buckwheat cakes by candlelight, they were at work at dawn. A day's labor reached from dawn to dusk, and no man thought of shirking. What skill, what endurance, what courage the smallest of them displayed!"
The character of Hamlin Garland shines through his writings. We feel his sympathy, his honesty, his tolerance, his democracy. He, of all our writers, is most fitted to write the great American pioneer novel. His friendship for John Burroughs is a telling item in his life. When questioned as to his favorite poems he listed first Burrough's hopeful, tender poem "Waiting."
Serene I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, or sea; I rave no more 'gainst time or fate For, lo, my own shall come to me.
I stay my haste, I make delays, For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways, And what is mine shall know my face.
Asleep, awake, by night or day, The friends I seek are seeking me; No wind can drive my bark astray Nor change the tide of destiny.
The stars come nightly to the sky, The tidal wave comes to the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me.