[Vol32 | August 1945 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

Doc. And Cov. Commentary. 4. Compare the words of Brigham Young and Sidney Rigdon found in this lesson from the point of view of leadership under God. Visiting Teachers' Messages sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 2?"Charity Suffereth Long and Is Kind" Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, November 6, 1945
Objective: To inspire patience and kindness in our human relations. THE most beautiful story of and is ?charity that suffereth long and is kind" to be found in all literature we believe, is Jesus' "Parable of the Prodigal Son."
Imagine the father's suffering when his younger son said to him (after he had worked and saved all his days for his children), "Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me." The father may well have guessed how his younger son would waste "his substance in riotous living." When the boy "came to himself" and started home, penitent, his father saw him "when he was yet a great way off." Seeing him, he had every right to rebuke him, to remind him of his folly and sins, to crush him in his shame, but instead he "had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." But let us not forget either that to his older son he said, "All that I have is thine." While the younger came back repentant, he did not share again.
Why was the father so long-suffering and kind? Because he was thinking not of his own wounded self but of the lad's life. The only thing that mattered now was that his son had come "to himself"? that "this my son was dead, and alive again; he was lost, and is found" (Luke 15:11-32). There is no more effective way to express charity than in kindness. Many people have no need of material help, which, anyway, is soon exhausted. Physical resources, too, are definitely limited. Yet there is no one who is not in need of kindness. And kindness, like all spiritual gifts, such as knowledge, love, and mercy, increases with giving.
Children need, above all things, kindness and love. Living in a world organized largely for the comfort, convenience, and advantage of grownups, they often live in fear of harsh words, scoldings, spankings, or indifference.
A friend told us of an ideal family where there were a large number of children, happy, cooperative, free from quarreling and wrangling. We asked her how she explained the success.
She replied, "I don't know, but their mother never raises her voice." This suggests strongly that the mother's charity includes patience and kindness.
Does kindness preclude discipline at home or in church work? Not at all! Discipline has the same root as disciple, which means learn, that is, to be a follower. The only effective discipline of a child's moral or spiritual nature is one which is preceded, followed, and surrounded with kindness. And kindness is born of charity and love.
Literature
The Bible in Our Literature
Lesson 2?How the Bible Is Woven into Our Literature
Dr. Howard R. Driggs
For Tuesday, November 25, 1945
SOME college students, taking a course in literature teaching, were stirred to active discussion one day by this statement from their instructor: "A good working knowledge of the Bible is absolutely essential to success in the teaching of our English and American literature."
"But we are not allowed to teach the Bible in the public schools," came a response.