[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Poem | Title: Contest Award Winners Eliza Contest]
(jiappii    I  lew    LJear: I 
T 
HE  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  extends  this  wish,  with  all  that 
it  implies,  to  all  Relief  Society  officers,  members,  and  Magazine 
readers  throughout  the  world. 
We  sincerely  thank  all  of  the  officers,  members,  and  friends  of  the 
Society  the  world  over,  for  their  loyalty  and  devotion  to  the  great  cause  of 
Relief  Society  during  the  past  year.  We  greatly  appreciate  the  many  cour- 
tesies shown  the  members  of  the  General  Board  in  their  visits  to  the  stakes. 
Amid  the  rapid  tempo  of  modern  life  with  its  growing  complexities 
and  anxieties,  let  us  realize  more  than  ever  before  that  happiness,  peace, 
and  serenity  come  from  within.  Let  us  make  sure  we  are  building  our  lives 
and  our  homes  on  a  firm  foundation  of  spirituality,  and  of  faith  in  God 
and  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
May  we  face  the  New  Year  with  its  unknown  problems  with  faith  and 
courage,  and  may  the  Lord  bless  and  sustain  us  in  all  of  our  righteous  en- 
deavors. 
Affectionately  yours, 
General  Presidency

Pioneer  Women 
Picsident  David  O.  McKay 
Of  the  First  Presidency 
(Delivered  at  the  afternoon  session  of  the  Annual  Relief  Society  General  Conference 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Thursday,  October  2,  1947.) 
SISTERS,  Visiting  Brethren,  the 
sweet  perfume  that  radiates 
from  these  lovely  leis,  gra- 
ciously presented  by  the  President 
of  the  Oahu  Stake  in  Hawaii,  but 
typifies  tlie  sweet  spirit  of  spiritual- 
ity that  radiates  from  this  large  audi- 
ence of  Relief  Society  workers. 
When  I  think  of  the  ideals  you 
represent,  as  offered  in  the  Relief 
Societies  of  the  Church— self-im- 
provement, perpetuation  and  bcau- 
tification  of  home,  preaching  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  service,  not 
only  to  those  in  distress  but  to  every- 
one who  needs  your  tender  care— 
I  do  not  hesitate  to  say  that  this  is 
one  of  the  most  significant  gather- 
ings, if  not  the  most  significant  as- 
sembly of  women  in  the  world.  I 
am  glad  to  be  with  you.  It  is  an  in- 
spiration to  partake  of  your  spirit. 
We  have  listened  to  inspirational 
addresses  from  your  fellow  workers, 
representatives  of  the  General  Board, 
this  inspirational  singing  from  our 
Singing  Mothers.  The  ideals  rep- 
resented here  cannot  help  but  make 
everyone  present  feel  that  it  is  good 
to  be  here. 
I  know  from  the  papers  and  from 
your  program  that  you  have  had  def- 
inite instruction  regarding  your 
work  meeting  and  your  literary  les- 
sons, your  religious  themes,  social 
service,  and  all  the  other  features  of 
Relief  Society  work,  indeed,  if  I 
would  I  could  not  instruct  you  on 
Page  4 
these  details,  as  I  am  not  sufficiently 
informed.  I  have,  therefore,  direct- 
ed my  attention  along  the  lines  sug- 
gested by  Sister  Spafford  and  her  as- 
sociates on  the  part  tliat  women 
have  played  in  the  Centennial,  and 
my  thoughts  have  not  centered  so 
much  on  what  women  have  done 
throughout  the  counties  (altliough 
their  labors  are  inestimable  and  to 
them  we  owe  the  success,  largely,  of 
these  great  county  celebrations  that 
have  been  carried  on  during  this 
Centennial  Year),  as  upon  the  pio- 
neer women  who  contributed  so 
much  and  endured  so  much  during 
those  trying  days  of  Nauvoo  and  dur- 
ing the  trek  to  Salt  Lake  Valley.  In 
paying  tribute  to  them  we  shall  pay 
tribute  to  all  womankind,  especially 
to  women  in  the  Church,  for  they 
arc  just  as  loyal  today  as  they  were 
then.  As  the  Utah  Centennial  cel- 
ebration draws  to  a  close,  it  seems 
appropriate  to  pause  a  moment  to 
pay  tribute  to  these  pioneer  women. 
And  well  do  they  merit  infinitely 
more  than  our  feeble  efforts  can  give 
them.  Their  fitting  praise  requires 
the  best  that  fluent  tongues  and 
gifted  pens  can  express. 
You  will  find  few  if  any  of  their 
names  inscribed  on  monuments 
erected  to  the  brave.  Some  are  not 
even  known  beyond  their  family 
circles;  not  a  few  lie  in  unmarked 
graves  out  on  the  plains,  but  the 
burdens  they  bore  uncomplainingly.

PIONEER  WOMEN 
the  contributions  they  made  to  the 
settlement  of  the  arid  West,  the  vir- 
tues they  exemphfied  in  the  midst 
of  trials  and  almost  super-human  en- 
durance entitle  them  to  an  honored 
place  among  the  heroines  of  the 
world. 
We  confess  that  during  this  Cen- 
tennial we  have  not  laid  much  em- 
phasis upon  the  part  that  women 
played  in  the  settlement  of  this 
Western  Empire.  In  this  we  are 
but  following  the  general  practice 
of  men  throughout  the  ages.  Wom- 
en bear  the  burdens  of  the  house- 
hold, carry  most  of  the  responsibil- 
ity of  rearing  a  family,  inspire  their 
husbands  and  sons  to  achieve  suc- 
cess; and  while  the  latter  are  being 
given  the  applause  of  public  acclaim, 
the  wives  and  mothers  who  really 
merit  recognition  and  commenda- 
tion remain  smilingly  content  in  un- 
heralded achievement. 
In  the  words  of  Jack  Appleton: 
"A  man  succeeds  and  reaps  the  hon- 
ors of  public  applause  when  in  truth 
a  quiet  little  woman  has  made  it  all 
possible— has  by  her  tact  and  en- 
couragement held  him  to  his  best, 
has  had  faith  in  him  when  his  own 
faith  has  languished,  has  cheered 
him  with  the  unfailing  assurance: 
Tou  can,  you  must,  you  will.'  " 
Broken  by  Fate,  unrelenting. 
Scarred  by  the  lashings  of  Chance; 
Bitter  his  heart — unrepcnting — 
Hardened  by  Circumstance; 
Shadowed  by  Failure  ever, 
Cursing,  he  would  have  died, 
But  the  touch  of  her  hand,  her  strong  warm 
hand, 
And  her  love  of  his  soul,  took  full  com- 
mand. 
Just  at  the  turn  of  the  tide! 
Standing  beside  him,  filled  with  trust, 
"Win,"   she  whispered,    "you    must,  you 
mustl" 
Helping,  and  loving  and  guiding. 
Urging  when  that  were  best. 
Holding  her  fears  in  hiding, 
Deep  in  her  quiet  breast; 
This  is  the  woman  who  kept  him 
True  to  his  standards  high, 
Watching,  and  guarding,  whispering  still, 
"Win,  you  can,  you  must,  you  will!" 
This  is  the  story  of  the  ages. 
This  is  Woman's  way; 
Wiser  than  seers  or  sages. 
Lifting  us  day  by  day; 
Facing  all  things  with  courage 
Nothing  can  daunt  or  dim, 
Treading  Life's  path,  wherever  it  leads — 
Lined  with  flowers  or  choked  with  weeds. 
But  ever  with  him — with  him! 
Guidon — comrade — golden  spur — 
The  men  who  win  are  helped  by  her! 
'T^HE  pioneer  woman  was  equal  to 
every  emergency.  Her  courage  in 
crises  when  she  faced  threatened 
death  equaled,  and,  in  some  cases, 
exceeded  that  of  her  husband.  She 
was  loyal  to  her  loved  ones,  to  her 
Church,  and  to  God.  She  endured 
untold  hardships  uncomplainingly. 
She  was  unselfish,  brave,  and  ful- 
filled, under  most  adverse  condi- 
tions, the  responsibilities  of  mother- 
hood—woman's noblest  calling. 
Nearly  all  women  are  by  nature 
sensitive  and  dainty.  They  admire 
beautiful  things.  They  like  to  dress 
becomingly.  They  admire  china  and 
silverware.  They  enjoy  decorating 
their  rooms  and  making  homes  liv- 
able and  attractive.  They  appreci- 
ate an  occasional  gift  of  jewelry,  of 
a  piece  of  Royal  Doulton  or  of  Dres- 
den. The  pioneer  woman  and  her 
associates  who  entered  Salt  Lake 
Valley  one  hundred  years  ago  en- 
joyed none  of  these  luxuries.  They 
had  to  be  content,  and  were  content 
with  the  mere  necessities. 
With  these  inherent  tendencies 
of  womankind  in  mind,  let  me  in-

6  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY   1948 
vite  you,  with  the  facts  of  history  be-  night  of  the  encampment,  nine  chil- 
fore  us,  to  recross  the  plains  with  dren  were  born  into  the  world,  and 
two  or  three  of  these  heroines.  Those  from  that  time,  as  we  journeyed  on- 
to whom  we  refer  this  afternoon  are  ward,  mothers  gave  birth  to  offspring 
but  representatives  of  thousands  to  under  almost  every  variety  of  cir- 
whom  tribute  is  due.  cumstances  imaginable,  except  those 
One  of  the  most  tragically  heroic  to  which  they  had  been  accustomed; 
epochs  in  Church  history,  one  in  some  in  tents,  others  in  wagons— in 
which  are  exemplified  the  dauntless  rainstorms  and  in  snowstorms.  I 
faith  and  divine  leadership  of  the  heard  of  one  birth  which  occurred 
men  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  under  the  rude  shelter  of  a  hut,  the 
the  super-human,  sublime  patience,  sides  of  which  were  formed  of 
and  resourcefulness  of  the  women,  blankets  fastened  to  poles  stuck  in 
is  the  period  following  the  expulsion  the  ground,  with  a  bark  roof  through 
of  the  saints  from  Nauvoo,  and  the  which  the  rain  was  dripping.  Kind 
building  of  Winter  Quarters  on  the  sisters  stood  holding  dishes  to  catch 
banks  of  the  Missouri.  Most  of  our  the  water  as  it  fell,  thus  protecting 
attention  this  year  has  been  direct-  the  newcomer  and  its  mother  from 
ed  to  the  trek  from  Winter  Quar-  a  showerbath  as  the  little  innocent 
ters  to  Salt  Lake  Valley,  but  I  think  first  entered  on  the  stage  of  human 
the  greatest  heroism  of  the  Church,  life;  and  through  faith  in  the  Great 
manifestations  of  the  greatest  leader-  Ruler  of  events,  no  harm  resulted  to 
ship,  and  loyalty  to  Church  and  either." 
to  ideals  of  the  women,  occurred  be- 
tween the  months  of  Februar)'  and  JN  that  month,  women,  driven 
September  of  1846.  The  story  of  from  their  comfortable  homes  in 
that  trek  has  never  yet  been  fully  Nauvoo,  left  their  land,  which  many 
told.  of  them  could  not  sell,  abandoned 
It  is  difficult  for  us  who  attempt  household  furniture,  treasured  pic- 
to  pay  a  feeble  tribute  to  these  pio-  tures  and  accumulated  relics,  left 
neers  one  hundred  years  later,  even  the  old  clock  ticking  a  gloomy  fare- 
to  imagine,  for  example,  what  those  well,  taking  nothing  with  which  they 
shelterless  mothers  endured  during  could  do  without,  crossed  the  Miss- 
the  month  of  February  1846— note  issippi  River  to  begin  a  trackless 
the  month— as  they  passed  through  journey,  and  to  endure  the  hardships 
the  throes  of  confinement  on  the  incident  to  camping  in  the  open  air 
banks  of  the  Sugar  Creek  when  nine  on  muddy  ground,  under  inclement, 
babies  were  born.  You  mothers  can  often  stormy  skies,  with  inadequate 
understand  this  better  than  we  men.  provisions  and  clothing. 
The  world  will  do  well  to  pause  and  Picture  this  afternoon,  if  you  can 
think  what  it  was  that  inspired  the  —and  this  is  a  real  incident— a  young 
women  to  endure  uncomplainingly  mother  with  the  care  and  responsi- 
such  trials.  bility  of  three  children— a  girl   of 
Picturing    the    scene,    Eliza    R.  seven,  a  boy  of  five,  and  a  baby  boy 
Snow  writes:     ''We  had  been  pre-  one  and  one  half  years  old,  subjected 
ceded  from  Nauvoo  by  thousands,  to  these  adverse  conditions.  On  her 
and  I  was  informed  that  on  the  first  and  her  little  children,  on  February

PIONEER  WOMEN  #            7 
25,  three  inches  of  snow  fell.    Only  But  in  that  year  of  1856  two  com- 
tents  and  wagon  boxes  for  shelter,  panies  were  delayed.  They  were  ad- 
The  diaries  of  that  day  tell  us  that  vised  not  to  attempt  the  trip.     It 
this   mother  and   babies,  as  many  was  too  late.     One  man  who  had 
others,  had  to  sleep  out  of  doors  as  crossed  called   them    together  and 
the  wagon  boxes  were  loaded  with  said:  'Tou  had  better  wait."     But 
food  and  with  what  few  household  the  majority  voted  to  attempt  it,  and 
necessities  the  refugees  could  take  he  said:  "All  right,  if  you  are  de- 
along.  termined  to  go  I  will  go  with  you 
Time  will  not  permit  me  to  pause  and  help  you;  if  necessary,  die  with 
longer  on  that  journey  across  Iowa,  you." 
They  reached  Mount  Pisgah  in  due  "Greater  love,  hath  no  man,  than 
time,  stayed  there  until  fall,    then  this,  that  a  man  lay  down  his  life 
joined  the  saints  at  Winter  Quar-  for  his  friends." 
ters  and  prepared  to  cross  the  plains 
next  year.  O^^  morning  a  young  wife  and 
Now  I  am  going  to  ask  you   to  mother  stood  by  the  side  of  a 
consider  conditions  ten  years  later,  newly  dug  grave,  the  final  resting 
Thousands  of  women  by  that  time  place  of  her  husband  and  fourteen 
had  walked  across  the  plains,  your  others  who  had  taken  the  last  step 
grandmothers     and     mine     among  on  life's  journey.    One  of  those  put 
them,  and  many  of  them  prompted  in  that  grave  had  helped  to  dig  it  the 
to  do  that  out  of  consideration  for  night  before.    One  of  the  mother's 
widows  who  could   not  come  any  arms  caressed  a  little  boy  sorrowfully 
other  way,  so  they  shared  the  wagon  sobbing  as  he  buried  his  face  in  the 
and  let  the  widow  ride  while  they  folds  of  his  mother's   dress.     You 
walked.  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  and  I  cannot  even  imagine  the  ach- 
it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  ing  sorrow  and  poignant  grief  that 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me."  must  have  filled  that  young  wom- 
But  ten  years  later  they  had  in-  an's  heart  as  she  and  her  little  son 
stituted,  or  inaugurated  the  handcart  pulled  their  handcart  that  day  with- 
method  of  crossing  the  plains.  To-  out  husband  and  daddy, 
day,  that  just  seems  to  me— I  do  not  Later,  in  the  month  of  September, 
know  —  almost    incomprehensible,  at  the  close  of  the  day's  march,   a 
but  they  fitted  out  their  handcarts  bride  of  twelve  months  gave  birth 
at   Winter    Quarters,   loaded   each  to  a  baby  girl.    The  records  do  not 
with  such  household  goods  and  such  say  whether  the  company  halted  for 
food  as  they  could,  took  the  cattle  the  mother  to  recuperate.   If  they 
and  drove  them  along,  and  marched  did,  it  would  be  only  for  a  day   or 
across  the  plains  singing  that  inspir-  two,  and  the  young  mother  would 
ing  song  with  which   you   opened  have  to  trudge  along  carrying  in  her 
this  gathering,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  arms,  or  placing  it  on  the  handcart. 
Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear,  but  her  newborn  babe.    What  a  picture 
with  joy  wend  your  way."  for  an  artist!     What  an  appeal  to 
Wives  pulling  and  pushing  hand-  the  skeptical,  indifferent  world  to- 
carts,  aiding  their  husbands,  while  day!  What  an  illustration  of  hero- 
little  children  trudged  at  their  sides!  ism  and  faith!