[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 63
Visiting Teachers' Messages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 7—Building Activities President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, April 6, 1948
Objective: To recognize the high standards in the building activities of the pioneers, which act as a stimulus for us today. IN looking back over Utah's first century, and in evaluating the accomplishments of the Latter-day — Saints, their building activities loom large. Not only the number and variety of Latter-day Saint buildings is surprising, but also the style of architecture used, and the stability maintained. It has been the practice of Latter-day Saints to build well. In Nauvoo substantial buildings had been erected by them including the beautiful temple which was destroyed by fire and tornado and even before that time, a temple had been built by them in Kirtland, which is still standing. Naturally, the most famous Latter-day Saint buildings are located in Salt Lake City—the Temple, Tabernacle, and the Assembly Hall, most of the construction of which was done during the first half of the first century of the Church. Two other attractive old structures are the Lion House and the Beehive House, and near them is the Eagle Gate, all greatly admired by traveling artists and architects. The old Salt Lake Theater, the Social Hall, and the Gardo House, all now gone, were also noted buildings.
Scattered throughout the State are other old and noteworthy buildings, including three temples, located in Logan, Manti, and St. George, and a number of attractive tabernacles such as those found in Logan, Brigham City, Provo, St. George, and Coalville.
Four additional temples have been erected, in Hawaii, Canada, Arizona, and Idaho Falls, making eight temples which are in use today. These, with the Kirtland and Nauvoo temples, make ten in all which have been built by the Church.
Among the many other new and notable Church buildings are the Church Office Building and the Bishop's Building in Salt Lake City, the Joseph Smith Memorial Building, which stands on the Brigham Young University campus in Provo, with other substantial school and seminary buildings, two up-to-date gymnasiums located in Salt Lake and Ogden, and three large, modern hospitals located in Salt Lake, Ogden, and Idaho Falls. And now, in order to extend hospital facilities to re mote regions of the Church, a number of smaller hospitals are being established in some of the smaller communities. We point with pride also to our many fine, commodious ward chapels, in connection with which attractive recreation halls have been erected. In addition to these public and Church buildings, hundreds _ of beautiful and comfortable homes have been built by the individual members of the Church. It can hardly be realized that in one single century a Church with such a small membership, and established faraway in a desert, could accomplish so much in the way of erecting so many permanent, dignified, massive, and architecturally admirable buildings. Latter-day Saints will continue to build magnificently, if they appreciate and build upon the foundation laid by their pioneer ancestors.
Suggestions for Discussion Some of the teachers might be given an opportunity to mention and describe other Latter-day Saint buildings and features of buildings which they admire, calling attention to the need of preserving historic buildings intact.