[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Barton said she wished to teach her children correct principles,  Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon. HUNDRED years ago last November 7, Elizabeth Blackwell entered the only medical school that would accept a woman, to become, two years later, America's first woman doctor.
Contending against social ostracism and unfair professional treatment, she yet built a great career and accomplished untold good, relying on God for guidance. 'To honor her, the American Medical Women's Association is planning to build a library on the campus of the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania. On the bookplate to be used in the library is, center, a vignette of Arete, the "Light of Hellas" (ancient Greece), author of forty books on natural science and healing.
Around the border of the bookplate are names of women famous in medicine, among them: Blackwell; Stevenson, _ first woman member and delegate to the American Medical Association, 1876; La Chapelle, famous French midwife; Erxleben, who practiced in Germany about 1750; Kahn, pioneer Chinese woman physician; Joshi, first medical woman in India; Mazzolini, early Italian medical woman inventor. ONE of the largest funerals ever held in Franklin, Idaho, was that of Mrs. Eliza Doney Lowe, a sweet lady of eighty-four, who was.
Active in Relief Society for more than fifty years, and put its precepts into practice daily.
Most of her waking hours, these later years, she spent helping those who needed comfort or assistance, whether they were rich or poor. She is survived by ninety five great-grandchildren. ANOTHER beloved Relief Society worker who died recently: in Salt Lake City, at the age 'of: ninety-eight, was Mrs. Juliana Petrea Thygesen Fredericksen, a native of Denmark.. EURIDICE TURANO, a lovely girl from Buenos Aires, Argentina, now enrolled at the Brigham Young University, Provo, is fulfilling a life-long dream to attend a university in the United States. A convert to the Church twelve years ago, she edited in Buenos Aires a magazine for missionaries, and traveled: throughout Argentina teaching the gospel. LAST October 27, Mrs. Ann C.
Milne of Salt Lake City reached ' the age of ninety-nine years. She still attends Relief Society and Daughters of Utah Pioneers meetings, and does housework.
Fourteen years ago, an operation restored her eyesight after fifteen years of blindness. She has seventy-seven great-grandchildren. ISS DORA LOGUE, a teacher in Arlington School, Murray, is one of the first of five Irish exchange teachers to come to America, She is enthusiastic over her work and her experiences in Utah.