[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]
Sixth from the end of the table, right background, is Opal Harston, President of Cowley Ward Relief Society at the time the photograph was taken; to her right is First Counselor Verda Partridge; and to her left, Second Counselor Geneva Stevens, now President of Cowley Ward Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mable D. Mortensen PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), SOCIAL HONORING THE VISITING TEACHERS, June 6, 1947
Mable D. Mortensen, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports that during the year 1946-47 three special projects were sponsored to promote interest and to stimulate activity among the visiting teachers. "'First was a contest in which the teaching requirements were divided into four groups. Each teacher was to make a barometer for each month. These were divided into four parts, and the four phases of teaching activity were each represented by one-fourth of the barometer, which was filled whenever that particular phase of the work was completed. The four phases were: 1. Doing the teaching the first week in the month; 2. Every home contacted; 3. Attendance at visiting teachers meeting; 4. Message given in the home. At the close of the year's work a convention for all visiting teachers was sponsored, at which teachers who had completed their work, as indicated by the barometers, were signally honored and each was presented with a small book as a token of appreciation."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 55
Photograph submitted by Grace F. Turley NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, COTTAGE GROVE (OREGON), BRANCH Front row, left to right: Zelma Van Matre, President; Helen Shrives; Faris Jolly, Secretary; Velma Levens, First Counselor; Ruth Lamb; June Chatterton. Back row, left to right: Lula McCullough; Westerene Turner; Grace F. Turley, missionary; Margaret Hinkson, Second Counselor; Aliene Andrews; Goldie Gunn; Esther Woodcox; Beulah Ramsey. This photograph was taken about two months after the organization of the branch Relief Society June 11, 1947. NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, REEDSPORT (OREGON), BRANCH Front row, left to right: Blanche Hickman, Second Counselor; Martha Hunt, President; Mary Raynes, First Counselor. Back row, left to right. Maymie Fox; Eunice Shrouder; Beth Raynes, Secretary; Ruth Cloward; Grace F. Turley, missionary. This photograph was taken at the time the branch was organized, October 1, 1947. Photograph submitted by Grace F. Turley These two Relief Societies are growing rapidly, and they are accomplishing much valuable work. They have completed quilt projects, contributed to the Church Welfare Plan for European Relief, have conducted bazaars, and have presented very fine Relief Society conference programs. 
 —JANUARY 1948
Photograph submitted by Pearl H. Yost IDAHO STAKE, BANCROFT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Mary Ann Jenkins 1928-1932; Edna Johnson 1943-1945; Pearl H. Yost, present president, sustained September 23, 1945. Back row, left to right: Barbara Eliason, first president, who served eighteen years; Jennie S. Gilbert 1925-1928; Louie Hale Call 1929-1938. Elizabeth W. Hatch is president of Idaho Stake Relief Society. Ye SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SUNSET WARD 1947 WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT Standing, left to right: Thelma Keller; Grace Gordon; Nerva Huff; Gwenn Grif- "tiths; Josephine T. Danford; DeLilah M. Fullenbach, President, San Francisco Stake
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 57 _ Relief Society; Floyd Griffiths, Bishop, Sunset Ward; Josephine Sanders; Susie Beattie; Marion H. Willis; Louise H. Stoddard, in charge of sewing and Welfare work; Anne R. Barton, President, Sunset Ward Relief Society; Stake President Byron J. Barton; Gladys R. Winter; Aleda Horsley. The photograph shows only part of the completed Welfare assignment, which included 35: articles of clothing. The beautiful quilt of unusual design shown on the right was given, partly finished, to Louise Y. Robison, beloved General President of Relief Society, during an official visit to Hawaii. The quilt was completed by the Relief Society women of Sunset Ward. The quilt is the only article in the picture which is not part of the Welfare sewing. Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey EASTERN STATES MISSION, ELMIRA (NEW YORK), BRANCH SEWING PROJECT Left to right: Fredericka Campbell; Gladys Wood; First Counselor Margaret Beach; President Margaret Kresge; Secretary Grace Fowler; missionaries Della Tew and Ruth Rockwood; Oliva Merrick. Absent when the photograph was taken: Second Counselor Lula M. Clark; Maude Barden; Marian Thom; Jean Hungerford. Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, reports that this small branch of eleven members has been very active in all phases of Relief Society work. Besides the regularly scheduled Sunday evening program, the Relief Society took charge of Father's Day. All-day work meetings were held during the summer, in which eight quilts were made and three layettes completed. In all, 101 articles were made during the year. Many bake sales were held, and the organization contributed several hundred dollars to the branch building fund. A birthday dinner has been given for each member and each one was presented with a Relief Society pin. Lesson Department Theology-The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 7-“Honored by Strangers, Rejected by His Own” “Continuation of our Lord’s Ministry in Galilee” Elder Don. B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapters 13 and 14, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, April 6, 1948
Objective: To prove that Jesus is no respecter of persons, but that his blessings are given to all who have faith in him, and who Serve him. IN order for one to grasp fully the great work of our Lord, one must know something of the conditions existing among the people in the land where he lived his earthly life. Much bod work was done, both by Jesus and his disciples, among the people of Samaria. The Samaritans were despised by the Jews, and, in time, this hatred became mutual. The inhabitants of both the province and city of Samaria were a mixed people. The province lay between Judea and Galilee. Assyrians and other heathen nations had intermarried with the Israelites of Samaria, yet all claimed to be descendants of Jacob. Geikie, in his Life and Words of Christ, says, "They (the Samaritans) became even more rigidly attached to the law of Moses than the Jews themselves." The Jews, however, would not recognize these people. Some of the practices between the two groups became utterly ridiculous. Hatred prevented any co-operation. Page 58
