[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Bertha Zaugg Perschon]

How to Cover an Umbrella Bertha Zaugg Perschon THROUGH accidents or by long wear, umbrellas become shabby or useless. At the present time it is very expensive to buy a good umbrella that is both attractive looking and will wear well. The homemaker who understands how to cut patterns, and who is familiar with simple sewing, can cover her old umbrella frame for a fraction of the cost of buying a new umbrella. It is, however, necessary to proceed slowly and follow the directions with great care. Materials Needed 1 yard of 39-inch material of your favorite color and texture.
Rayon taffeta proves very satisfactory, as it does not split as readily as silk.
Glue for replacing the cap. If cap is lost, a plastic thimble makes a good substitute. 2 spools of thread, one for heavy duty hand sewing, and one for machine use. Preparatory Steps Soak the cap off the old umbrella by placing it in very hot water to melt the glue.
Remove the cap.
Carefully remove the old cover -from the umbrella frame, taking particular notice of where, how, and why it is sewed.
This is very important, for, in stitching back the new cover to the frame, the same type of stitches must be used in the same places in order to assure a perfect fit.
After carefully removing the old cover, all in one piece, unpick one of the panels, being sure not to tear or stretch it.
Press this panel smooth and straight.
Waterproofing the Material Place the material to be used as the new cover between two sheets of waxed paper and press with iron on low heat, the temperature for artificial silk or rayon. The applied heat causes the wax to permeate the material, thus making it waterproof. Use new pieces of waxed paper for each area of the material, carefully arranging the sheets so that no spaces of the material will. Be left without a wax coating.
Cutting the Pattern Lay the pressed panel on a piece of paper and cut a pattern the same size and shape as the original panel, except for one slight difference. You will find that the wide end of the original panel will be slightly curved. Do not cut the curve, but make the pattern straight on this edge. The pattern should be even on both sides when folded on center lengthwise line.
Make sure that the pattern is the exact size of the original panel, except for the curve. Lay the yard of 39-inch material flat on the table and cut it 'in half lengthwise.
Remove the selvages and make a 1/2-inch hem on both sides of the lengths of the two pieces. (See Diagram A.) Place the pattern at the top of one of the two pieces of hemmed material; with the wide panel end at the right-hand hemline and the point of the triangular-shaped panel toward left-hand hemline. Be sure that the pattern is laid along the straight of the goods. (See Diagram B, in which Page 37 
 —JANUARY 1948 DIAGRAM A CUT IN HALF HERE 1/4 INCH HEM 39 INCHES WIDE DIAGRAM C "FIRST STITCHING" ~~ SECOND STITCHING (VERY CLOSE TOGETHER) the straight of the 800ds is represented by dotted lines.) Cut with Pinking shears, beginning at the wide end of the panel and cutting toward the point. Alternate the pattern to the other hemline, and repeat until you have Cut out one half of the number of Panels needed to completely cover the umbrella. Then repeat the same Process with the other half of the material. Sewing the Panels Lay two of the Panels together and baste or pin the seam, beginning DIAGRAM B == a= Y41NCH HEM DIAGRAM D DIAGRAM E TOP JOINED SEAM TWO CIRCLES