[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September - Lesson VII Social Service - Mo]

LESSON VI] Social Service (Fourth Week in September) MORAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME (Continued) A child is by nature neither morally good nor bad. He is simply non-moral. We neither praise nor condemn him for tendencies that are purely instinctive. God has planted within the soul of every normal child certain tendencies. We call these tendencies instincts. They constitute the raw material out of which moral habits and sentiments are developed. The most important of these instincts are: (1) The instinct to fight, the pugnacious instinct. (2) The instinct to seek human associations or the gregarious instinct. (3) The instinct of self-display and its opposite. The instinct of self-subjection. (4)  The instinct to get possession of things, acquisitiveness. (5) The instinct to build, the constructive instinct. All of these are useful for the preservation of the life of the individual as well as for the preservation of the human race. THE BOY WHO FIGHTS The child who never fights is not a normal child. God has jJanted within the life of every normal human being the tendency to protect himself and to secure his place among his associates. This individual dignity or self-respect is essential to the welfare of the child as well as that of the man. It 'becomes an evil only when it is carried too far, or when it is left unchecked and undirected by other tendencies or by intelligence. What parents need to do is to find opportunity for this tendency to express itself in useful ways. Healthy children should be encouraged to express their fighting instincts in different forms of competition; running races, wrestling, boxing, jumping, and in mental games. Strong bodies and strong minds are the result of such competitive actvities. We make out. Of the fighting instincts not bullies or champion fighters, but efficient men who can fight obstacles, master environment, compete with opponents in bustness, in law, in politics, not by using foul methods but by energy and skill and by observing the rules of the game. THE TENDENCY TO BE WITH THE CROWD The child is a social being. He can not stand to be alone. He must have playmates, gangs, clubs, societies, whatever the form of the association may be. If the child cannot find good companionship he will find those that are not good. He needs associates to develop his powers. He will never learn to cooperate with others until he has been trained to do so in contact with his fellow creatures. One reason why we have failed in our great associated life to do good team work is the fact that we have not been properly trained as children in our simple associated life. But we must bear in mind that it is not simple association that is needed, it is association of the right kind and under proper conditions and leadership. What parents need to do is to study the associates of their children, provide them with proper companions if they do not have them, and render assistance in the organization and direction of all of their group activities. The great moral problem is that of living peacefully and successfully together. THE INSTINCT OF SELF-DISPLAY Not all the little annoyances which the child forces into the lives of parents are accompanied by the motive to disturb. A child likes to receive attention, and in this respect he is not entirely different from the adult members of the family. If his ordinary good conduct does not attract attention he may break over some of the rules of the household and create excitement. And to be sure, his saying a bad word, or jumping, or shouting, or saying ''no" when his parents want him to say "yes" is not always followed by unanimous disapproval by other members of the group. Father and mother may reprove and punish but too often other members of the. Family are agreeably entertained. The child must have his share of the attention of the family group and if the good things that he does do not get that attention he will compel attention in other ways. THE COLLECTIVE INSTINCT The strong desire in the lives of adult men and women to acquire property, sometimes by theft and by other unfair means, is driven forward by the same instinct which actuates the little child when he fills his pockets with rocks, bags, strings, nails, and when he makes any sort of accumulation which he calls his own. This desire to accumulate things is not bad in itself, it becomes bad if it is undirected by matured individuals. Stealing is nothing more than the misdirection of the collective instinct. If we are to develop honesty in the lives of children we must very early in life teach children the relation between possession and the right to possess. We must teach them that ownership is based upon some sort of useful effort. CONSTRUCTIVE AND DESTRUCTIVE INSTINCTS To build up and to tear down is as fundamental in human nature as any other of the native tendencies. If the child pulls the chairs in the room out of their places and builds a house his motive is not to annoy mother but to build, to construct. He does not know its full meaning. We know that it is nature's method of preparing the child for a life of usefulness in society. If he breaks up his little toys it may be for the purpose of discovering what is inside of them. The great force of curiosity is expressing itself. Normal children are active children. Morally good children are children whose activities are properly directed. The reason so many of our children do wrong is because there is nothing for them to do. The child's paradise is a place where he can express the many God given tendencies and do this without constantly hearing the awful words "Don't! Stop! Be still!" A little boy on being asked what he wanted for his birthday, replied: "I want to be let alone for one day."  Moral education in the home is today expressed in positive terms. It means direction, not supression. References: Cope, Religious Education in the Family, Chap's 20, 21, 22. QUESTIONS 1. What are some of the more important natural tenencies? 2. The conduct of a very young child is governed largely by instinct. Is such conduct moral, unmoral, or non-moral? Explain. 3. Is the desire to fight in itself morally bad? Give reasons for your position. 4. What benefits morally grow out of the nattiral tendencies in a child to want to be with his crowd? What are some of the dangers connected with his instinct for association? 5. Give examples from the lives of children of the instinct of display. Show how this instinct may be directed in useful channels, |, 6. When a child appropriates that which does not belong to him, what instinct drives him on. Would you call this stealing? Why or why not? 7. What play activities tend to stimulate the constructive instinct? Give examples showing how this instinct is misunderstood. & Inthe moral training of children show that direction is better than suppression. 9. A knowledge of instinctive tendencies in children should serve what purpose in moral education? 10. Name other natural tendencies in the lives of children which you think have moral significance. TEACHER'S TOPIC September I. Beginning of Winter's Activities. II. Renewed Energy in Relief Society Work.