NOTES FROM MILLIE

		(Gathered for the Exponent,) 
	We mostly,too often forget the consequence 
of not keeping our mouths shut at proper
times. If we cultivate a habit of breathing
through the nostrils rather than the mouth
the latter will naturally be less frequently
opened, and we will thus become more
healthy, and as fewer things of a disagree-
able nature will be uttered, we shall be more
happy. Try it. Keeep your mouth shut.
	Nearly all the annoyances from which spring
the heart-burnings and strife with which
the world is vexed, are petty trifles which
arise from ominous nothings. They are but
forgotten seeds, which, scattered by the
wayside, spring up in after life in the shape
of apathy or distrust. They are little sparks,
which smoulder and heat, and when least
expected, kindle into a flame.
	And these peace disturbers, heartrenders,
and sometimes soul- destroyers, might be
avoided, mostly altogether, if people could
learn that wisdom which would tell them
when to keep the mouth shut.
	But, then, there are some hearts so over-
sensitive that nothing can be said which
does not in some way chafe or wound them,
no matter how pure the intentions of the
speaker may be. A great deal of discomfort
arises from this diseased state of mind, it
being far too prevalent. It should be blunt-
ed. There are actually those who fancy that
they form the especial theme of every pas-
serby; and if, in conversational circles, gen-
eral hints are given, they are sure to imag-
ine themselves particularized, and always
insist on being unjustly evil spoken of.
Whereas, they might, at least, give their
friends credit for feeling after their interest
And if, as is often the case, they must listen
to imaginary colloquies about themselves,
they might set the old proverb at defiance
and determine on hearing something good.
Another thing, these oversensitive people
are not the most cautious about opening
their mouths at the expense of the feelings
or credit of others. If compliments are of-
fered them in a kindly manner, they have
a way of defalcating them, and only half ac-
knowledging their real worth, And most of
us are not pleased with such discounts on
our pretty sentences, and are apt to look
well to our compliment in-those direc-
tions in future.


