THE DEAD SEA— A MONUMENT.
	
	Though “dead,” it is a living Monument.
'Tis peerless, archless. towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embelishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine.
	It is a monument of Justice, and
Of righteous doom of crime and wickedness—
A speechless, speaking monument of wrath
Divine poured out on guilitines
Of dark abominations Monitor
Of warning to the generations past—
The present, and to all that are to come
	It stands where stood the “Cities of the Plains"—
Where Sodom and Gomorrah, steep'd in sin.
Were first devoured by fire, then swallow’d up!
	Its dense, saline preserving properties
Are morally significant of the
Great purpoes of God concerning sin—
Whene’er iniquity attains its full,
To sweep it with destruction’s bosom, and
To ultimately purity the earth.
	O’er cliffs precipitous—thro’ winding trails—
Rocky activities and frightful steeps—
At times, in zig-zag course, to cut the heights
That otherwise were inaccecssible,
O'er looking dark abysses—gaping chasms,
And sometimes beautiful sequstered deals,
Where Nature most successfully has made
Attempts at wild and grand sublimity;
We went in search of this strange monument,
And found it nestled quietly beneath
Judea’s mountains, on a sterile plain,
Where solitude in solemn silence reigns.
	This Sea, when seen as we beheld it—’neath
The cloudless monday sun, “is beautiful.
The lucid rays appeared on crystaline
To fall, creating myriads of gems
That sparkling, glowed with dazzling brilliancy,
As though the Sea’s smooth crest were overrpressed
With little shining pearls—most bounteously,
To crown with gaiety the briny deep.
	We gazed upon the Sea: ’Twas motionless,
As in reverence for the Almighty power
Of Deity, whose awful mandate called
It into being. In deep silence wrapped—
Without a sound of moving waters, or
The gentle murmur of a stirring wave,
All, all is silence, and this silence speaks
Far more impressively than uttered tones.
	"'Tis God’s own Monument, and proof against
The wreck of Ages, and the waste of Time.
					MISS ELIZA R. SNOW
JERUSALEM, March 3, 1873.


