EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ACCOUNTS OF the bankruptcy of men of for-
tunes are becoming more and more frequent
in the news columns of the daily papers.
	KATE STODDARD has been indicted for
the murder of Goodrich. Being a woman,
and not wealthy, she will likely be con-
victed.
	PERE HYACINTHE, they say has aban-
donded the clerical garb. So he don’t
abandon his wife wo can overlook the
other.
	A WESTFIELD, Mass., post-office clerk
has been arrested for stealing registered
letters. Why will young men place them-
selves in the way of temptations?
	A NATIVE of Japan was lately arrested in
San Francisco; his crime was burglary.
He was the first of his race ever arrested in
that city, but will probably not be the last.
	A FAVORITE actress of New York, Miss
Agnes Ethel, was lately married to Fran-
cis W. Tracy, of Buffalo. The most sensible
part perhaps, ever played by the winsome
maiden.
	AIR EXCHANGE publishes as an item of
news, that “Currency is scarce.” We won-
der at this, for the story is so old, we
thought oyery body knew it, almost every-
where.
	THE CHINAMEN at Mokelumo Hill, Cali-
fornia, quarrelled  got mad, and want
to burn up the town; but the white citizens
stand guard and don’t let them. Cruel
white men!
	A WAR has lately broken out in Panama,
between Nerra, the present President, and
General Cornoza, recently deposed from
that office. They can’t both fill the same
position, so they quarrel about it.
	SINCE THE financial panic, which com-
menced in New York, it is estimated that
from 8,000 to 10,000 persons have been
thrown out of work. And no work moans
no bread for most people who will work
now-a-days.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its fourth anniversary meeting on
the 13th ult., in Boston. A large audience
assembled, of which, fully two thirds are
reported tn have been men. The women’s
cause progresses.
	REPORTS of the  Farmers’ Convention,
organized in Chicago lately, show that
favorable results are likely to accrue from
the resolutions adopted and the questions
discussed, which will prove advantageous
to farm laborers generally.
	THE CARLISTS of Spain have been carry-
ing off women at Vera for seamstresses, to
make uniforms.  Among those stolen, was
a young woman, who was the owner of a
dowery of $35,000. The Carlists are evi-
dently no respecters of persons.
	BISHOP DEVERE, of the French scttle-
ment, St. Pierre, was recently assassinated
while at prayer in the sacristy of the chapel
of St. Jean de Dieu. Safety from violence
is not to be anticipated, even in what is con-
sidered the most sacred sanctuary,
	AN ACCOUNT is given in a late paper, of a
[Solumn 2]
little boy living some where in New York,
who went to Sabbath School in the morning
and recited two hundred verses from the
Testament; and in the afternoon caught fish
enough to stock a river. If that boy lives,
he will, without doubt become a minister,
or an officer of public trust some day.
	DR. MCCREADY testified in the Stokes
trial lately that he believed Fisk died of
the narcotic drugs administered and not of
the wound. And Dr. Carnochan testified
that whether the wound was fatal or not,
the immediate cause of death was coma.
Couldn’t they prove that Charley Goodrich
came to his death by  an over dose of
whisky?
	IT HAS been understood that after
the present instant, in conseqlittlee of
the late financial failures, the wages of em-
ployes on some of the railroads in the
States will be reduced from 15 to 20 per
cent. If care and responsibilities de-
crease in proportion with the wages, there
will be a continued round of accidents to
record.
	THE “MARY E. Poe,” a large stern wheel
vessel, was recently burned on the Missis-
sippi river, ten miles above Osceola, Arkan-
sas. The pilot, Hans Cowan, was burned
badly before he left his post. Out of 65
passengers, only four were reported missing
after the occurrence. That speaks better
for the officers of the “Poe,” than if the
clerk’s report had been “all lost.”
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN arrived in New
York a short time since, from Europe;
remained about a week, and having become
disgusted with the ways of the country in
that time, sailed away again, leaving for-
ever, he said. But the world in its revo-
lutions will be most likely to roll him back
again.
	A LITTLE five year old daughter of Wes-
ley Bennett was at play with her brother in
a stubble field that was being burned, in
Cana, California, on the 17 ult., when the
flames overtook her and burned her so
badly that she died soon afterward. Every
accident of the kind above stated, should
be a warning to others, to avoid the ap-
proach of danger.
	A MEMBER of the Homeopathic Medical So-
ciety of the State of Pennsylvania, Dr. Jacob
G. Wiestllng, lately tendered his resig-
nation; announcing that he would not
belong to a society which admitted women
to membership. His resignation was read-
ily accepted on the condition that his dues
for the current year should be paid. Any
society might congratulate itself on so
happy a riddance.
	AN ENGLISH stock raiser paid $40,000 for
one cow at a recent sale, at New York Mills,
near Utica, N. Y. and another man lately
paid $50,000 for a trotting horse. To en-
courage improvement in the quality of
stock is praiseworthy, to say the least; but
the extravagance of woman need not longer
be hooted at, since some men can afford to
gratify their own ambitious vanity by pay-
ing such prices as the above, for a fancy
cow and a fine horse.
	MEMPHIS STILL groans under the burden
of the terrible plague with which she is
{Column 3
afflicted. As late as the 22nd ult., loud
calls for help were made by officers of the
city, they testifying that the yellow fever
was not abating and that more help than
ever was required. Donations were re-
qested from all sympathizers with suffering
humanity, to assist in paying the expenses
of the sick; to be sent to A. D, Longstaff,
President of the Howard Association, Mem-
phis, Tennessee. Helping hands should not
be withheld. What city can judge when
her own time of suffering may commence?
	A CORRESPONDENT at Lake George,
writes thus of a sensible girl: “We have
a young lady here, the daughter of Colonel
Montgomery, U. S. A., who can row a boat
better than most men She is a girl of
splendid physique and healthy tone of
mind. Without regard to her complexion,
she goes out on the water morning, noon
and evening. Fortunately for her, the sun
beautifies and does not disfigure, for she
only looks fresli and rosy, without any tan
or redness. The girls who are passing the
season in fine dresses and only take piazza
exercise because their dress unfits them for
any other, may well envy Miss Montgomery
the pleasurable recollections she will carry
with her of her summer at Lake George.”
	AT PROSPECT Park Brooklyn, the colossal
bust of John Howard Payne, author of “Home
Sweet Home,” was recently unvailed and
presented to the Park, in the presence of a vast
concourse of people. The bust is mounted
on a highly polished granite pedestal, being
itself a bright bronze. On the occasion of
its being unvailed, exercises of a pleasing
and appropriate nature are reported to have
been performed; among which is mentioned
the singing of “America” by a chorus
of six hundred children accompanied
by music; the reading of a poem com-
posed for the occasion by John George
Saxe and an address by Mr. Do Witt. The
song of “Sweet Home,” short and simple as
it is, has been the single, beautiful, uncon-
scious immortalizer of the name of its
author.
	IT IS always worth while to interest chil-
dren and teach them good principles by
telling them good, sensible stories, or talk-
ing with them about the beautiful lives of
the pure and honorable who have lived
upon the earth. The following instance is
related in the “Floral Cabinet:” A gentle-
man tells that many years ago, he was on a
visit to the Isle of Man, and during his
walks he strolled into the quiet church-
yard, where reposed the bodies of many a
faithful anil humble Christian. Near a
grave in the corner of the church-yard he
noticed a lady with a little girl (the latter
about twelve years of age), to whom she
was relating the story of the dairyman’s
daughter, whose remains lay beneath their
feet. As the lady proceeded with the nar-
rative, he noticed the little girl lift up her
eyes filled with tears, and heard her say
that she would try and be as good as the
dairyman’s daughter had been. After
planting a beautiful lily on the grave, they
walked slowly away. The gentleman, upon
making inquiry, found that the lady was
the Duchess of Kent, and the little girl her
daughter, The latter is now the Queen of
England.


