PHYSIOLOGY.

	It is not the object of the writer to present a
code of physiological laws; but to call attention
to the necessity of having this branch of sci-
ence more generally taught in our schools.
	Human physiology is a history of the func-
tions (uses) of the various organs which 
constitute the human body, of their mechan-
ism, their dependencies upon, and relations to
each other.
	Great need exists with a majority of people of
all localities, of a knowledge of a correct system
of physiology. No person can understandingly,
apply gramatical or mathematical rules which
they have never learned. Neither can a per-
son make the most and best of life without
learning life's science, physiology, and under-
standingly applying its rules. To derive from
life the happiest results, is the object of all 
rational beings. The condition of  "the house
we live in” (the body) so materially affects all 
our life-interests that an understanding of its
parts and functions is of more than ordinary 
importance.
	A thorough system of co-operative education
would require iniatory lessons to be given at
home. Where can mild words be found in which
to refer to the inexcusable ignorance of so many
parents upon subjects which so vitally con-


cern their happiness and well-being, in their
present lives, and in their future generations?
	We study the biography of noted men and
women with interest, sometimes with profit;
but if one study must be neglected, it should
not be the study of our inner-selves, on which
depends so much of life, health, happiness,
longevity, and consequently so much of the
power of usefulness in earth-life.
	Reader, if you are acquainted with the laws
above referred to, you are required by the debt
you owe to humanity to teach them. Hygenic
table arrangements are among the most admir-
able and effective first lessons in this depart-
ment of science. Other reforms which these
laws require may be advantageously introduced
at the fireside, and in social neighborhood in-
tercourse.
	“The field is white and the laborers are few."
Dear reader, will you study and labor to help
to improve the condition of our kindred—the
human family? If so, you have the co-opera-
tion of
