		WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Many predict utter failure of the Woman
Suffrage movement because it has not al-
ready been accomplished, and because it
moves slowly. They argue that were it
a necessary step, and one destined to be
adopted at all, it would have been accom-
plished ere this.
	But I have proved to my own satisfaction,
from this very delay, that it is necessary
and inevitable, and when once adopted,
destined to be permanent. The gourd
which grew up in a night withered in a
day, while things which live long grow
slowly. In the natural order of things a
person must be prepared for responsible
positions before occupying them, for unless
her capacity is equal to her needs, she will
fail in her undertakings.
	Woman's long exclusion from educational
advantages and participation even by
unrestrained conversation in political affairs,
would argue an unqualified condition. Hav-
ing neither experience nor teaching, neither
practice nor theory, neither personal nor
general responsibility, the chances are that
had they been admitted to the full privi-
leges of citizenship at the first asking,
without argument pro or con, a great portion
of them would have been as fearful of
accepting their new privileges as certain
members of Congress are appropriating their
"back pay." They would so have dreaded
to be called "strong minded;" which
dreadful scandal affrights so many of Eve's
daughters and proves beyond argument
how low is the standard set up for them by

[Column2]
—I will not say men because they are so
sensitive about being "attacked" but no one
can find fault if I say by—Society.
	Again thousands would have gone on in
mammon and fashion worship, refusing to
arouse themselves to the dignity of their
new position; and many who did accept
willingly their privileges would seem much
like children playing with fire—knowing
not what to do with it. But the strong
opposition which the movement has met,
will arouse the idlest and most ignorant to
a sense of her important position, and
each new point at issue will educate and
prepare her for the responsibility which is
coming upon her, each new rebuff will make
her more determined and each fresh evi-
dence of her unprotected condition will
arouse her dormant energies and fit her, step
by step, to be her own guide, guardian and
defender.
	The friends of woman are right to be-
siege the doors of schools and colleges here-
tofore closed against her, for as fast as she
is fitted to bear them ably, there need be no
fear that she will not be called to new privi-
legs eand responsibilities; and surelyt hat is
fast enough to satisfy the most sanguine.
	This is speaking of woman in general but
suggests a particular case; the women of
Utah. Were they fitted and prepared
to appreciate and wisely use the franchise?
Can they claim superior education or natural
abilities? At least they do not, and yet I
think them quite able to make good use of the
ballot. Whatever the Territory affords of
educational facilities are open alike to men
and women, but their chief preparation for
the ballot lies in having so long and so
keenly felt the need of a weapon of self-
defense. The long years in which they
have borne the scorn and contumely of the
world at large, have matured them fast; for
suffering is a powerful teacher. The ladies
of Utah thus have been prepared to fully
realize the dignity and authority which the
franchise bestows, and none will dispute
that whosoever thoroughly realizes this
may be safely trusted to use it wisely.
	The new facilities afforded the press in
this Territory by the railroad, have brought
that also within the reach of woman; and
gladly does she avail herself of this means
to educate and vindicate herself. She is
justly tired of being misrepresented, mis-
understood and misjudged. She never
asked for the franchise but when it was
offered to her she accepted it gratefully,
and will now cling to it as to her life.
	Had the ladies of Utah made one tenth
of the exertions to gain citizenship that
their Eastern sisters have done, it is but
fair to conclude that the whole civilized
world and half the heathen would have
informed of the fact, and called to witness
the terrible state of tyranny on one hand and
rebellion on the other between the men and
women of Utah. And, truly, there would
have been nearly (though not quite) as much
truth in it as if applied to the Eastern States
to-day; for men in general do oppress
women in general even if unintentionally,
because the frame work of laws and the
network of customs under which they
live will have it so.
	There is a gradual improvement in the
code of laws for which women are truly
thankful; but they never can be quite just
until man and woman stand on a true level,
having equal rights, equal honor, equal
self-sovereignty. This, and not a reversion
of the old order, as some pretend to think—
is the aim of the so-called Suffrigists, and
it is a noble aim truly. That they will
eventually succeed is just as certain as that
their cause is just and their claims reasona-

[Column 3]
ble; but, to some, the joyful time may seem
slow of approach.
	If so, let them not wearily count the hours
and lengthen them with suspense, but to
lighten and hasten them, do something!
make preparation! lift themselves out of
the degradation of unthinking, unreasoning,
useless existence which some lead. Even if
you make mistakes and do things you would
like to recall, better that than sit with folded
hands and never learn what to do.
	Above all things do not be a slave to
fashion! She is a most despotic queen and
lays upon her subjects most grievous bur-
dens; in return for which graciousness she
demands the time, the talents, the con-
science and the health of her victims. Her
rewards are a restless craving for adulation
in youth, a sense of loss instead of gain in
middle life and a regretful, empty old age.
Poor wages truly.
	None need feel degraded by the necessity
of toil, for labor is honorable in the sight of
God who made it at once our expiation and
our elevation; but a life of idleness and
frivolity is degrading to man or woman;
and so long as idleness and helplessness are
the standards by which to measure woman's
ladyhood, just so long will she be a slave to
ladyism.
	All honor to the brave souls who would
correct this state of things, by putting into
her hands, and teaching her to use the
weapons of self-government.
	And here I cannot forbear a word in favor
of that able sheet "The Woman's Journal."
	It condemns fashion-worship, mammon-
worship and—man-worship. It advocates
perfect equality and not tyranny from either
man or woman; a mutual concession of
privileges; co-education of the sexes and all
such needed reforms; and while doing so,
discountenances all over-zeal and all incli-
nation to exhibit only one side of the
question; teaching temperate ardor and a
most unselfish devotion to the cause of
woman's advancement. 
						L. L. D.


﻿THE BEST LEARNING.—The learning 
which makes us acquainted with ourselves,
with the faculties of the human mind, with
Divine truth, which is plainly revealed,
with its power on the mind and heart, with
the concatenations of cause and effect, and
to understand our every-day duty, which
grows out of our wants and the want of
those about us, is learning of a better quality
than that which only enables us to call
things by different names, without giving
us a knowledge of their qualities for either
good or evil.


A CHILD'S FAITH.—In the Highlands of Scot-
land there is a mountain gorge 20 feet in width, and
200 feet in depth. Its perpendicular walls are
bare of vegetation, save in the crevices, in which
grow numerous wild flowers of rare beauty. Desir-
ous of obtaining specimens of these mountain beau-
ties, some scientific tourists once offered a Highland
boy a handsome gift if he would consent to be low-
ered down the cliff by a rope, and would gather a
little basket full of them. The boy looked wistfully
at the money, for his parents were poor, but when
he gazed at the yawning chasm he shuddered,
shrank back and declined; but filial love was strong
within him; after another glance at the gift, and at
the terrible fissure, his heart grew strong, and his
eye flashed, and he said, “I will go if my father
will hold the rope.” And then, with unshrinking
nerves, and heart firmly strong, he suffered his
father to put the rope about him, lower him into
the wild abyss, and to suspend him there while he
filled his basket with the coveted flowers. It was a
daring deed, but the faith in the strength of his
father's arm, and the love of his father's heart,
gave him courage and power to perform it.


