IGNORANT MOTHERS.

	Science? Oh yes! and art too. There is a
great deal of both to be studied out in mak-
ing bread and washing dishes, and still more
in listening to and answering the questions,
the continuous, countless questions of the
children.
	Ever busy observers of natural objects, it
requires parents and teachers of good sense,
coupled with first class educations, to answer
their daily questions correctly. And because
parents and teachers, generally, are not in
possession of the necessary information for
the guidance of children in the observation
of nature, their innocent and natural inquis-
itiveness is commonly repressed instead of
being encouraged and directed aright.
	I confess my ignorance of the commonest
things about me, and that my eldest boy,
when not yet four years old, had often puz-
zled me in propounding questions which I
could not answer, concerning the simplest
things in daily use in my domestic work.
	"How is the water made, mother?" he
asked me one day. "It is made by Our
Father in Heaven, the great God, who made
us, and the earth we live on, and all things
by which we are surrounded," I answered
him. "Well, what does He make it out of?
What kind of stuff is in it?" were the next
inquiries made. And I was obliged to ac-
knowledge that I did not know, and could
not tell him. I could'nt even say as to
whether it was considered by scientific peo-
ple to consist of one substance, in its pure
state, or to be composed of a mixture of ele-
ments.
	That shows, I presume, that I have not
taken the time to read "Beth's Chemistry
of Common Things," in the children's paper,
for that, doubtless, has told all about the na-
ture of water, as well as many other useful
things that I know nothing about. How
many other mothers are raising up families
who are quite as ignorant in the way of
properly instructing them as I am? Is there
not a general need for a reformation in the
domestic realm in regard to the education
of mothers? Shall we not all, or nearly all,
agree that we have fallen into the way of
too much hard work, and too little genuine
study—of nature rather than of books? We
send our children to school and require that
they should be taught. Is it more requisite
that they understand things than that their
mothers should?				LINA.


WEBSTER said:—"If we work upon mar
ble it will perish; if upon brass, time wil
efface it; if we rear temples they will crumble
into dust; but if we work upon our immor-
tal minds—if we imbue them with princi-
ples, with the just fear of God and love of
our fellow men—we engrave on these tab-
lets something which will brighten through
all eternity."


HUMILITY does not consist in telling our
faults, but in bearing to be told of them; in
hearing them patiently and even thankful-
ly; in correcting ourselves when told—not
in hating those who tell us of them.


