			I CAN'T.

	"I Can't" is a word we often hear, some-
times from the lips of a poor, tired body,
sometimes from one whose care and mental
labors have almost exhausted the brain. "I
Can't" we hear, as mother lays down her
unthreaded needle, "I Can't," says a non-
active one, whose powers have always
depended on another, and has idly lain.
"I can't, toil as you do, if I never have
a home," are the words of your borrowing
neighbor.
	"I Can't," never wrote a piece for the
paper. "I Can't" pay you, now sir, when
the banks have all broken. "I Can't help
it now, I did it when I was mad;" and "I
Can't" we hear every day from some people.
Then, what is the matter with "I Can't?"
"I Can't" the father, mother, and son, are
for ever idle and nothing is done. But
shall we all be called idlers? No! Mother,
tired body, rest! Let me assist you to

[Column 2]
accomplish your wise plans, that you may
long live to bless your child. Let me share
your cares, to ease your brain. Let me
sew and read for you, to rest your eyes.
But Mrs. Idler, braid your straw, and
make your hats, and be a producer of the
comforts of life; if you do not like to
be called lazy. And do not snuff up your
nose at "I'll Try," till it is so puggy that
you are ashamed to look in the glass.
	Get at your work early in the morning,
if you want to put money in the Savings
Bank. and save your paper rags if you want
papers to read. Build a fence around your
farm if you do not want your crops har-
vested by your neighbor's cows; and be
always well employed if you want a friend
in need; and write for the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, if you have better ideas than these;
and remember the Mormon Creed, "Mind
your own business." Pull your own garden
weeds. Controll your ugly temper. Don't
provoke your neighbor. If you will do all
this, dear reader you will have a friend in
misfortune, respect in old age, and a hope
beyond the grave. Make friends with "I'll
Try," who will do better than "I Can't."
	Let us hear from "I'll Try."
	Dear Reader, I am sorry that I am so busy
just now, but "I'll Try" will take the time
to see if she can find something that will
interest you. Suppose I tell you something
of myself. When I was a little child, it
was very hard for me to learn, but necessity
compelled me, and a thought, "I'll Try,"
came to my mind, and to wake the mind
from a stupor and lethargic state, was the
work I set about. Hard tugging, and slowly,
I gained the ascendency, little by little
only.
	There was a feeble whispering within my
heart, that said, "There is a future that you
must prepare for;" and then Pride stepped
forth and said, "I'll Try to finish my work."
Perseverance was the only chance for the
salvation of an existence I already had, and
to live was a visible fact, upon which I
could not shut my eyes. Then reason
taught me, that it was better to live pro-
perly, to be a vessel of honor, than one of dis-
honor, and many a lesson I've learned by
bitter experience which was the result of
"I'll Try." I was not cradled in riches
from a child to womanhood! Had I been,
perhaps my hands would have been too
white to soil, my frame too delicate to bear
burdens, and my petted and pampered
spirit, too morose and pompous to be
chided, and taught and trained, in a proper
manner; and thereby my propelling powers
against the tide of life would have been
blunted. I was bereft of parents at an early
age. Was this a misfortune, or a blessing
in disguise?
	Dear reader, I have since learned to
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
although I have always felt that the sweets
of my existence was then abstracted and
supplanted with stern realities. Parents
generally remove the brambles and briars
from beneath the little one's feet, and place
beneath their aching heads downy pillows.
I have often thought of parents, when I
have stepped upon the thorn. By their
loss I've  learned a self-support. Did my
brain still sleep? No; it had to waken to a
life of activity. I learned A, then B, and
that twice two was four; I then chewed
the corners off the book called grammar,
and left it to digest—looked at the geogra-
phy, and concluded that the best way to
learn it was to travel. But I have tried to
sail in my own latitude. I did not like to
go too far North, because it was too ice-

[Column 3]
burgy, and I did not like to go too far
South for I always had a dread of too hot
water, and I did not like to go too high up,
for I was afraid the air would be so light
that my brain would be troubled with
vanity. I thought, "I'll Try, to seek my
own level." I never studied romance, for
I concluded there was enough of that in my
own nature. "I'll Try" has surmounted
many difficulties, and is still waring with
the flesh, in hopes to maintain her expecta-
tion sof her parents who left her to try.
	But, dear reader, before I leave you,
I will tell you that by my own industry, I
am furnished with a comfortable home, and
am wrsting by a warm fire which are the
results of
					"I'LL TRY."
Oct. 18th, 1873.


