		CONCLUDED.
	There is great danger of the young and
ardent doing injustice to their companions,
by magnifying trifles, drawing large con-
clusions from small premises, and judging
from a partial knowledge of facts. How
often have we seen a young girl, all eager-
ness to tell some extraordinary thing about
a companion, and representing some trifling
occurrence as the most atrocious ill conduct;
when, the very next hour, perhaps, has
brought to light some circumstance that
changes entirely the whole aspect of the
case, and shows that all her excitement was
wasted on a mistake. It is a good rule nev-
er to believe anything on mere report, that
is inconsistent with what you already know
of a person. Consider how much more prob-
able it is that there is some error in the state-
ment, than that a trustworthy man or woman
should do something entirely out of charac-
ter. When some false rumor about yourself
or family reaches your ear, instead of being
provoked by it, lay it up as a lesson against
believing what you hear reported of others.
	Talking ironically is sometimes indulged
in to such an excess as to become very tire-
some to the hearers. A little dash of irony
enlivens conversation, and when well and
sparingly introduced it is pleasant enough;
but some girls have such a habit of it, that
on all occasions, to persons of all ages, all de-
grees of intimacy and acquaintance, on all
subjects, whether grave or gay, they will
answer you in that strain. All reverence for
age and superior wisdom, and all sense of
propriety are sacrificed to the indulgence of
this propensity, whilst they are unconscious
of its being in excess. To make the whole
strain of conversation ironical, is like serv-
ing up a dinner composed wholly of gravies,
sauces, and condiments without one substan-
tial dish. In like manner all jesting, banter-
ing, and quizzing should be very sparingly
indulged in, and with constant reference to
the feelings of others, or you may inflict a
wound before you are aware of it.—"English
Paper."


HUSBANDS AND WIVES.—Happiness can
only be secured by that constant tenderness
and care of the parties for each other which
are based upon warm and demonstrative
love. The heart demands that the man
shall not sit reticent, self-absorbed, and
silent in the midst of his family. The
woman who forgets to note and provide for
the peculiarities of her husband's tastes and
wishes renders her home undesirable for
him. In a word, ever-present and ever-
demonstrative gentleness must reign, or
else the heart starves.


