TOO CHEAP.

	Woman has so long been regarded as either a
kitchen drudge, or a mere parlor ornament,
according as her position in society would allow,
that she has, generally speaking, come to great-
ly under value her own genuine worth. She
fails to realize that to an immeasurable extent,
the wealth, ambition, pride, strength, beauty and
glory of future generations, of future nations,
and in short, the future world, is based exactly
upon the price at which she values herself.
She is too easily won by the magnetic influence
of man's masterly power, and does not suffi-
ciently weigh the importance of bestowing her
woman's self upon one who is entirely worthy.
	The man who woos her may indulge occa-
sionally in a pipe or cigar, or even "a glass too
much!" But he loves her—at least he says he
does—and to her it sounds so sweet to hear him
declare it, that she "cannot spare the luxury of


believing." He visits the billiard saloon some-
times; but then, he praises her charms, her
voice, her beanty, perhaps her talents. He
spends his Sabbaths in running races instead of
attending church, yet is sure to throw aside
everything else for the sake of spending the
evening with her. He speaks irreverently of
honorable aged people, and often uses profane
language. But he is always polite and most
gentlemanly in his words and manners toward
her. Though his dress and the perfumes and
personal dainties in which he indulges, indi-
cate that he is something of a fop and a spend-
thrift; yet to her he is not at all selfish, and
lavishes upon her splendid, costly gifts and
is delighted to gratify her most extravagant
desires. No matter what he may appear in
the eyes of the world, he "lays himself out"
to please and entrap her; and she is vain and
foolish enough to be pleased and caught.
	O, Woman! why are you so weak! Why do
you not stand erect and free, the true being
which God designed you to be. It is your pre-
rogative, your legitimate right to make your
own choice in answering who shall be your
soul's companion, the father of your children.
How can you be so blind to your own interest
and the progress of humanity, as to allow your-
self to be so cheated and hoodwinked as to ex-
change the one priceless jewel with which God
has entrusted you, your soul-wealth, your queen-
ly self, for worse than nothing, the mere pledge
of love from a being worthy of your respect
and confidence!
	Better, a thousand times better, never to
marry at all, never think to fulfil the holy mis-
sion which it is your sacred right, under proper
circumstances, to fulfil, better to return to the
Heavenly Father as pure and spotless as He
sent you, than to become the mother of offspring
by a debauchee and a deceiver.
	When God had finished His work in forming
the world, He saw that it was good. He like-
wise would see all the works of His children
worthy of being pronounced good; and His
daughters have no license to run the risk of
doing poor work, by bringing to earth sons and
daughters begotten of inferior fathers.
	In brief, we simply mean—Young lady, do
not sell yourself so cheaply as a majority of
women have done and do. Do not marry
a man who is not really worthy of you, and be
sure that you are indeed worthy of one of the
best.


