NEVER AGAIN.

	There is a touch of pathos about doing
even the simplest thing for the last time.
It is not alone kissing the lips of the dead
that gives you this strange pain—You feel
it when you look your last upon some scene
which you have loved—when you stand in
some quiet street where you will never
stand again unless you come back some day
to the old "haunts," and wander among
them an unwelcome ghost.
	The actor playing his part for the last
last time—the singer whose voice is cracked
hopelessly, and who after this once will
never stand before the sea of upturned
faces, disputing the plaudits with fresher
voices and fairer forms—the clergyman
who has preached his last sermon—these all
know the hidden bitterness of "never
again."
	How they come to us on birthdays as we
grow older! Never again young—always
nearer to the very last—the end which is
universal, the "last thing" which shall fol-
low all the other last things, and turn
them, let us hope, from pains to joys.
	We put away our boyish toys with an odd
heartache. We were too tall to walk any
longer on our stilts—too old to play marbles
on the pavement. Yet there was a pang
when we thought we had played with our
merry mates for the last time, and life's
serious, grown-up work was waiting for us.
	Now we do not want the lost toys back.
Life has other and larger playthings for us.
May it not be that these, too, shall seem in
the light of some far off as the boyish games
seem to our manhood, and we shall learn
that death is but the opening of a gate to
the new land of promise?


ORNAMENTAL TREES.—As a rule it is
much better to use native trees than those
of foreign extraction. Native trees are
generally more hardy, and put out their
foliage sooner, and retain the same later in
the season than the foreign. The maple
tree makes a beautiful shade, but is a slow
grower. The American linden is not, prob-
ably, as fine a tree as the English, but
preferable in some other respects. The
mountain ash is a favorite and is regarded
as among the most beautiful of the decid-
uous trees. Its form is graceful, and its
general appearance striking and elegant,
either in bloom in early summer, or when
loaded with its rich scarlet berries in the
autumn. It is very hardy, and will grow
thriftily in an exposure that would kill other
deciduous trees.


STOKES' FATHER testifies to insanity
affecting members of his family. Of course
Stokes was "affected" when he shot Fisk.
Of course he "lived in dread of his life"
while Fisk lived. But if he had been
born a Modoc, the lawyers would have had
less trouble in deciding his case.


