		SING TO THE BABIES.

	Sing to the babies! lay upon the cool pil-
lows or cuddle them tenderly upon your
breast, and sing soft and low the gentle
strains which shall linger in the soul, when
childhood, with all its appealing helpless-
ness, its confiding innocence, its sweet won-
derment at seeming vastness of the opening
life which in youthful eyes looks so alluring,
has flown forever.
	When all that seemed so desirable has
come to appear as worthless clay, when care-
worn and world-weary, what untold sweet-
ness is in the memory of the songs which
lulled to sleep in infancy when mother hung
over the cradle with eyes filled with celes-
tial tenderness, and voice laden with such
soothing softness that baby grief fled far
away and earth seemed a veritable paradise.
	When the sun sets and languid twilight
makes little eyelids heavy, and the day's
unceasing activity has wearied the pattering
feet, then all other matters should, if possi-
ble, be laid aside, and mother should be able
to give her entire attention to the children.
Lave the tired limbs in tepid water, robe in
sleeping-garments, fold the little hands lov-
ingly and teach the lisping voice to give
thanks to God, or confess the little indiscre-
tions. Do not fail to teach the little one to
pray, for, were there truly no tender angels,
no kind Heavenly Father to listen, prayer,
the utterance of his own peculiar and per-
sonal needs and aspirations, sets the child
face to face with himself, and is one great
step toward the all-important and oft-repeat-
ed lesson, "Know Thyself." Then sing in
the spirit of thanksgiving and meekness and
the child, sinking to sleep in so holy and
peaceful an atmosphere will imbibe a rever-
ence for the Creator, a purity of soul which
all the varied scenes of after life can never
wholly obliterate.
	Even vice and misery cannot drown the
sweet influence which, under such circum-
stances, will be the pearl to redeem the mire
of a mistaken life; and in the happiest con-
ditions a memory so sweet that wealth and
fame could not buy it.
	It will bear with it, for mother's sake, a
deeper tenderness and respect for woman-
kind, a firmer trust in Divine Providence,
than years of study and observation. And
Oh, the lonely infant hearts cheered, the
doubting ones comforted, the rebellious
ones soothed by being folded close in moth-
er's loving embrace and listening to the low
music of her voice!				L. L. D.


