	TO THOUGHTLESS CHILDREN
	What name in the English language
brings such tender feelings with the mere
sound, as that of “Mother?” The most har-
dened person, when hearing or speaking it
at times, cannot help a flow of warm, loving
thoughts springing into the heart. When
sickness is in the family, whose untiring
hands are ever willing to perform every
little act of kindness that will lessen the suf-
ferings of the afflicted? Whose love soften-
ing every pang, makes smooth the thorny
path of life? It is Mother’s hand and Moth-
er’s love which sooth and lighten all the
burdens. It is to her we are indebted for the
good there is in us; for she sows the good
seed in the hearts of her children. Where
is the daughter who can be ungrateful to her
Mother? If there is one such, what an un-
happy life she must lead!
	Do not the great men of this world attri-
bute their success in a great measure to the
good teachings of their Mothers? The his-
tory of their lives will tell if they err in so
doing. Many persons seem to think that
her strength, like her love, is inexhaustable,
and that they can draw therefrom forever,
but take no pains to do anything that will
soften her labors, or smooth her path in life.
Let such a one lose her Mother. Oh! what
thoughts rush into the mind! Every unkind
word, every angry look, every ungrateful
act, will come thronging into the memory,
crushing the already breaking heart. Where
can a more heart-rending scene be witness-
ed, than the father and children standing
beside the corpse of the wife and Mother?-
The memory of that sainted being will ever
be fresh in their hearts. In the solitude of
night they will see her loving face, hear her
gentle rebuke,or sweet words of praise; every
little act of kindness ever performed by her
will then be remembered and rendered
doubly dear, Her place can never be filled
by another; no matter how obliging, how af-
fectionate, a woman maybe, it is not Mother!
	Oh! then, take care of Mother while she
is with you. Every step that can be taken
to save her, let it be taken willingly; and in
her old ago, be to her a “friend” in every
sense of the word. Do not be afraid of over-
paying the debt of gratitude you owe her.
It can never be cancelled, worlds without
end.
	Are you a sou? remember, if you can, the
immeasureablo acts of kindness she has per- 
formed for your comfort. Are you a daugh-
ter? Who has planted in your heart the
seeds that will make honorable, virtuous
womanhood? Who is it, when you feel
tired, that will say, Oh, so gently! “Sitdown,
my child, I know you are tired; I will finish
now.” Who is willing to forego pleasure
that you may go out and enjoy yourself?
Every daughter in the 1 and, if asked these
questions, would answer, “My Mother!”
Oh, blessed word! what solemn thoughts
awaken at the mention of that holy name.
Girls, too much on your part cannot be done
for your Mothers. Listen to their counsels,
obey them implicitly, and they will make
you not only honorable members of society,
but, better still, honorable members of the
Kingdom of God.				P.A.M.
	RICHMOND, Oct. 1st.


﻿IF rich, be not elated; if poor, be not de-
jected.


