		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	CHILDREN EATING.—Whenever a parent
sees a child come to the breakfast-table, nib-
ble a little, then go away, there is solid
ground for apprehension of coming ill in
some form or other. This want of appetite
for breakfast may come on very slowly; it
may be weeks before it is decided enough to
be marked; so much the worse for the child,
because greater will be the difficulty in right-
ing things.
	If children are going to school, eating
should be made compulsory, or brain diease
will follow, sooner or later, for the brain
must be nourished, or restless sleep follows,
and in its train dreams, nervousness, cold
feet and hands, with severe debility.
	All school children should have plenty of
good wholesome food for breakfast and din-
ner, with all the fruit and berries they can
get afterwards as desert; if not these, then
no desert at all. A speedy and easy way to
remedy meal-time nibbling is to begin with
a supper of bread and butter, and one cup of
hot milk and water, and nothing else; allow 
not an atom of anything to be eaten between
meals, and compel them to be in bed by nine
o'clock. Within a week a hearty breakfast
will be the result, with an increasing vivac-
ity, activity, life and enjoyment.—"Chris-
tian Weekly."
	THE HOUSE will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other's feelings, no meek submission to in-
juries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and half a dozen and you will have an effec-
tive blaze. There are other fires subject to
the same condition. If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.
	WHAT COMSUMPTIVE NEED.—The late
Dr. Marshall Hall, of England, said: "If I
were seriously ill of consumption, I would
live out doors day and night, except in rainy
weather or mid-winter; then I would sleep
in an unplastered log-house. Physic has no
nutriment, gasping for air cannot cure you,
monkey capers in a gymnasium cannot cure
you. What consumptives want is air, not
physic—pure air, not medicated air—plenty 
of meat and bread."
	HOW TO IRON PANTS, COATS, ETC.--Pants
can be made to look very nicely after wash-
ing them by brushing clear from all particles
of line, turn wrong side out, press all the
seams with a hot flat over a press-board,
turn back to the right side, wet a piece of
white muslin in clear water, rinsing out,
spread over a portion of the pants (which
have previously been folded smoothly), iron
over the muslin until completely dry, re-
move, wet again, put over a new place and
iron again; do this until the whole surface
has been gone over.
	GREEN TOMATO PICKLES.—To every gal-
lon of sliced tomatoes add two tablespoons-
ful of salt, and let them stand over night.
Do not pour off the liquor, but add two-thirds
of a pound of sugar, one pint grated horse-
radish, two tablespoonsful of mustard. Put
a weight on the top and set near the fire or
in a warm place until they become sour,
when they should be kept in a cool place.
The juice of the tomatoes forms the vinegar,
and if some are partly ripe it is all the bet-
[Second column]
ter. No scum rises on the top, and they will
keep a long time.
	LEMON JELLY CAKE.—Two cups of sugar,
one small cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, four
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-
half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in thin layers.
For the jelly take the juice and rind of three
lemons, or five if small, one pound of sugar,
one-quarter pound of butter, six eggs; beat
together and scald like custard. When cool
spread between the cakes. Ice the top.
	DEAD SHOT FOR INSECTS.—Strong alum
water is a sure death to bugs of any descrip-
ion. Take two pounds of pulverized or crys-
tal alum, and dissolve in three quarts of
boiling water, allowing it to remain over the
fire until thoroughly dissolved. Apply, while
hot, with a brush, or, what is better, use a
syringe to force the liquid into the cracks of
the walls or bedstead. The pulverized alum
is worth about 50 cents a pound, and that
in crystal from 15 to 20—a cheap remedy.
The latter requires a little longer time to
dissolve. Of course an experiment to verify
the claim above made, can be made by ap-
plying a mere fraction of the quantities above
named. A less perfect cure for insect pests
is to scatter the powdered alum freely in
places where they abide. Powdered borax,
scattered thinkly where Croton bugs and cock-
roaches travel or abide, will expel them at
once. It is a sure expulsion for the Croton
insect. Almost all strong saline solutions are
efficacious in the destruction of these house-
hold pests, which are both destructive and
annoying, and the mixture of alum or any
other material need not necessarily be hot.


