HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE a specimen of the ribbon woven
by Sister Wadroup of Centreville, of pure
home-made silk made from the elements of
Utah. The loom in which it was woven was
made in Centreville from a model brought
from England. There is an increased interest
awakened in sericulture, brought about more
particularly through the untiring labors and
exertions of Mrs. Zina D. Young, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
other sisters who have labored indefatigably
in this arduous undertaking. Much credit is
due these ladies for their courage and exertions
under difficulties, and all sorts of unfavorable
circumstances.

	THE FIRST Quarterly meeting of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Co. will be held at
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, March 23rd, 1878, punc[-]ually at
2 o'clock p. m. The Secretaries of the var-
ious wards and districts are requested to send
in a report previous to that time, in order that
the Secretary may have an opportunity to pe-
ruse each roport previous to reading them in
public. Each branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake of Zion is expected to furnish a con-
cise statement of the first organization, and of
any particular change of officers, or reorgani-
zation, and a complete financial report of all
funds received and disbursed, and for what
purposes etc. These reports should be as brief
as it is possible to make them, and have them
sufficiently definite. Afterwards reports will
be made every three months, which will re-
quire but little extra time and attention. By
means of this organization or board of county
officers, a correct estimate will be made every
three months of all funds handled by the sis-
ters in this organized capacity in this Stake of
Zion. The people will be better posted upon
the appropriation made of means donated. At
this meeting it is expected that the board of
officers of each society will be present as there
will likely be instructions given relating to 
the Relief Society, its present and future pros-
pects and duties that will be desirable that all
should understand for themselves- A general
invitation is extended to all interested in the
progress of the work of the sisters in Zion to
be present at the meeting.
				MARY I. HORNE, President.
