WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I should like to add my voice with the
rest of my sisters, through the columns of
our paper; I always read it with pleasure,
and would not exchange it for any other
paper. Oh, what a great work there is for
the sisters in Zion! It is time for all to be
up and doing. I know that this is the king-
dom of God—it is the little stone cut out of
the mountain, that will roll till it fills the


whole earth. I often think how thankful
we all ought to feel for our mountain home,
away from the tumult that is abroad in the
world. Here, where we can worship God,
our Father, according to the dictations of
His Spirit, where we have prophets and
apostles to lead and dictate us, where we
can obey the revelations of God given in
the last dispensation, the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, for we know that without
it we cannot attain to a fulness of celestial
glory. Blessed are they that trust in God
and obey the voice of his servants; for if
we are faithful, we will be heirs and joint-
heirs with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
We would rather suffer affliction with the
people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures
of sin for a season; for whom the Lord lov-
eth He chasteneth. Let us love the Lord
our God with all our hearts, and our neigh-
bors as ourselves. Let us, as sisters, in
union try and cultivate a cheerful temper,
be kind and forgiving one with another.
have forbearance, meekness, and above all
charity, which will help us to love one an-
other; and may we ever be found ready to
do the will of our Father, is the desire of
your sister in the covenant,
			AGNES COOPER.
West Jordan, March 3, 1878.

	The health of the people in this vicinity
is good, and the weather here is most de-
lightful, and every one feels a good spirit,
and generally we have a good attendance at
our sisters' meetings, which we hold every
two weeks. We meet once a month to
speak of the goodness of the Lord, and give
words of comfort and encouragement to
each other. The EXPONENT is read with
great interest here, and I realize my inabil-
ity to write to our most valuable paper,
and if it was not for a portion of the Spirit
of God, I could not give vent to my feel-
ings; without his assistance we could do
nothing; it is through Him we live and
have a being. In these latter days He has
revealed the principle of Celestial Marriage
through Joseph Smith, for which I feel
most truly thankful, for I know that it is
calculated to purify and elevate the human
family. God has promised, inasmuch as we
will obey His commands, He will be a friend
to us in the day of trial, and the Lord says
He will have a tried people.
	As Latter-day Saints and women of God,
let us live our religion, and not allow the
evil one to whisper evil things in our ears,
and try and love each other, and if we have
a cross to bear endure it bravely. "No
cross no crown." I pray that I may have
the Holy Spirit to guide and direct me
through life, that I may be counted worthy
of a celestial glory. I feel to say God bless
all that are trying to obey His command-
ments and live their religion. Such is most
earnestly the prayer of your humble sister,
						JANE GODFREY.
	Clarkston. Feb. 27, 1878.


