			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting, in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 16, was one of special inter-
est. The congregation was very large.
Counselor Phebe Woodruff presided, the
President of the meeting being necessarily
absent. There were a great many minutes
from the various wards, and they were full
of good thoughts well expressed, and testi-
monies to the truth of the Gospel from the
young sisters. Counselor Phebe Woodruff,
in referring to the minutes of the young
ladies, said one thing struck her mind par-
ticularly; it was the expression so often
made, "I am thankful I live in this day;"
she thought all did not fully appreciate the
blessings granted us in this dispensation,
in the building of Temples, in the ordinances
for the dead, and other great privileges the
Saints enjoy. She made many excellent
remarks upon these subjects. Counselor E.
Howard, in her remarks, expressed herself
upon the subject of voting, and enjoined
upon all who were not citizens to take out
naturalization papers. Said that she looked
upon it as the legitimate work of Relief
Societies to instruct the sisters in all things
which pertain to their interests temporal,
or spiritual. She also gave some good ad-
vice to the Secretaries. Mrs. E. B. Wells
said she felt she had something to say to
the sisters that they would be glad to hear.
She had received a letter from Mrs. Spen-
cer, in Washington, the lady who had mani-
fested so much interest in the cause of the
women of Utah. The petitions sent from
here had been received and presented.
Mrs. Spencer regretted that Mrs. Wells had
not sent a letter to the Woman's Conven-
tion; as it was, she made extracts from a
letter to herself, and told the Convention
that the women of Utah desired to be one
with them in asking constitutional protec-
tion of their rights as citizens. Mrs. Spen-
cer said she deserved no thanks for taking
up our cause, for if she did not oppose such
legislation she ought to be stricken with
instant paralysis; yet it was some comfort
to know that our women felt kindly towards
her. Said she had lost many friends and
made hosts of enemies in our defense. She
also said, "Can you not send me the EXPO-
NENT? I need material to work with, know-
ing so little of your people." Mrs. Wells
then expressed her views in regard to the
sisters sustaining the EXPONENT and help-
ing to make it not only a pleasant compan-
ion in our homes, but a missionary in wo-
man's cause at home and abroad. Read
some articles of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association, which were similar in
tone and sentiment to the views entertained
by our people. Mrs. E. S. Barney, in her
remarks, dwelt strongly upon sericulture
and home literature. Mrs. Prescinda Kim-
ball spoke with much earnestness, and ex-
horted all to be up and doing, for the time
hastened. Alluded with much feeling to
the elder sisters passing away, and the
young being prepared to take their places.
She felt it was necessary for the sisters to
sustain the EXPONENT. Mrs. Martha B.
Young spoke upon the peculiar blessings of
the Gospel and the necessity of faith and
humility. Mrs. W. East spoke eloquently
upon the subject of Celestial Marriage, and
the blessing it was to all who would accept
the principle in its purity; she alluded to
the subject of home literature, and felt she
would like to see a renewed interest in sus-
taining our own papers and books. She
gave much excellent advice to the sisters.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade the
hearts of all who were present. These

[Column 2]
meetings are constantly increasing in in-
terest and there is always fresh impetus
given to the mind by attending them.

			KAYSVILLE, Feb. 11th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held here, Jan. 22d, for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief So-
ciety of this place. Bishop Peter Barton
aud Counselor John R. Barnes, being pres-
ent, gave some excellent advice and en-
conragement to the sisters, after which the
names of the following sisters were present-
ed, and they were sustained, as officers of
the Society:
	Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde, President.
	"	Sarah B. Layton,		} Counselors.
	"	Mary Ann Walker,	}
	Miss Helen E. Hyde, Secretary.
	Mrs. Jane W. Blood, Treasurer.
	A good spirit prevails among the sisters
of the Society, and all are striving to carry
out the counsels that have been given
them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and all take an interest in the welfare of
the poor, and do all in their power to assist
them. The following is the Financial Re-
port of the Society from its commencement.
Donations, Dividend on stock, etc. $2240. 53
Cost of Relief Society House............  1345. 84
Furniture for the same.....................      78. 95
Given to the poor..............................    569. 89
Given for the Temple in S. L. City           27. 50
Given to P. E. Fund............................       50. 00
Disbursed for various articles..........    119. 50
Shares in Co-op Store.......................       25. 00
Remaining in Treasury......................       28. 85
Wheat stored for Zion, 65 bu., 54 lbs.
	Hoping that success may attend the ef-
forts of all interested in the cause of Zion.
			MARY A. HYDE, President,
			HELEN E. HYDE, Secretary,
			JANE W. BLOOD, Treasurer.

