HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dr. Hammond on Sleep —In a recent lecture
on "Sleep," Dr. William A. Hammond, of New
York, said that the brain was at work not only
during every waking moment and in dreams, but
even in the deepest sleep it was employed in stor-
ing up new energies to be dissipated in the fu-
ture. If it were not for the fact that some parts
of the organ had comparative rest while others
were at work, it would soon wear out altogether.
Every pnlsation of the heart, every thought of
the mind destroyed some particle of brain matter,
and were it not for the gradnal building up of
fresh material which was going on at the same
time, it would speedily become a wreck. It was
during sleep that this recuperative process was
most effective; during wakefulness the expendi-
ture of brain force exceeded the accumulation of
new matter by a large proportion. The lecturer,
after defining sleep as due to the diminution of
blood in the brain, cited some curious instances of
its extraordinary power. He described a series
of interesting experiments by himself and others
upon a dog placed under the influence of ether, in
which pieces of the skull were removed, and
sleep proved to be accompanied by an absence of
blood in the vessels of the brain, and wakeful-
ness by the return of the same fluid in large
quantities. Anxiety or other emotions or affec-
tions carried to a morbid extent were more often
the cause of wakefulness than great mental labor,
although the latter, if over-prolonged or repeated
with undue frequency, was equally harmful. As
the capacity for sleep depended upon the amount
of blood in the brain, and that amount was largely
under the control of the individual, there was no
difficulty in so disposing the body or the system
as to invite sleep and overcome the evils of wake-
fulness. Many persons who would feel sleepy in
a chair, would become wide awake on lying down,
simply because of the flow of blood to the head.
For such persons a high pillow, reaching well un-
der the shoulders, would prove beneficial. Oth-
ers, by eating a light and easily digested meal just
before retiring secured the best of repose.


SILVER, WE are told, is the currency
earliest mentioned in Scripture.
	There has been a serious blockade of the
railroad between Ogden and Omaha; all
trains stopped for five days. Snow plows
worked diligently clearing the track, and 
trains have resumed running. About the
time of our going to press the first mail ar-
rived since the 8th inst.


