		KANAB, KANE CO., Feb. 20, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading the EXPONENT I find there is an
effort made by the sisters to store grain and the
importance of having it safely kept.  I would
suggest mixing lime dust (air slacked) with the 
wheat as a perventive of weavel;two bushels
to the hundred is sufficient: the crevices of the
bin should be filled with lime.  I have seen my
husband use lime in this way with effect in St.
George, after the weavel had gained possession
in great multitudes, by removing the wheat
from the bin, and exposing it to light on a 
floor, the weavel would gather out  the dark-
est palce they could find.
		Respectfully,
				LOUISA OAKLEY.
			KINGSTON, Feb. 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this place were organized into a 
Relief Society by Bishop King and Counselors,
Dec. 16, 1877, with Susan Black President,
Esther King, and Frances White Counselors,
Mary T. Wilcox, Secretary, and Mary A. Sav-
age, Treasurer.  We also have a corps of 
Teachers with M.T. Wilcox President, who 
visit the sisters monthly to encourage and
strengthen them in their duties both temporal
and spiritual.  We hold our testimony meet-
ings on fast days at 2 o'clock p.m, which are
well attended and an excellent spirit prevails;
both old and young take a lively interest in
speaking of the goodness of God.
	A branch of the United Order was organized
in this place May 1st, 1877, with Thomas R.
King, President, Joel Hwite, and Wm. King,
Vice President; T. King, Secretary; Mortimer
Warner, Treasurer.  The members feel will
satisfied and are united, each one being willing
to do whatever they may be called upon to
do by those placed to direct.  We are working
on the joint-stock principle, each one putting
in all they possess and all fare alike.  They are
building our houses on a sqaure, and it is the
intention to build a dining-hall in the center.
The Lord has crowned our labors with a good
harvest, this last year, for which we feel to 
thank Him, and for his blessing that has at-
tended all our labors.  All those that have 
come here came for the purpose of carrying
out the principle of the United Order, and we
have been truly blest and prospered in opening
up farms and making homes in this new coun-
try, and there has been a vast amount of labor
accomplished by so few.  Our numbers are
small but steadily inareasing.  We have a day
and Sunday School well attended, also a Mu-
tual Improvement Association.  We feel that
the Lord has been with us since our coming 
here, and that He will still watch over us.
We have had excellent meetings this winter,
and enjoyed ourselves very much, peace and
union reigns in our midst.  I know that the
nearer we live up to the commandments of the
Lord, the more of his spirit we enjoy, and the
better we feel.  It is the intention of the So-
ciety to take a few numbers of the EXPONENT 
as soon as practicable.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the faithful in
Zion, I remain your sister etc.
		MARY T. WILCOX, Secretary, R. S.


