THE DUTCH IN HOLLAND.

	The Department of State has received a
report on the social and political condition
of the Dutch from the Minister of the
United States to the Hague. As an illus-
tration of the carefulness and steadiness of
the Dutch, the Minister says that there has
not been a bank failure in Holland during
the last forty years, and that the paper
money of the banks during that time has
been equal to gold. In regard to fire insur-
ance companies, there is no such thing as a
failure on record, and, while the rate of
insurance does not average more than half
of one per cent, the companies are in the
most flourishing condition, realizing twelve
to sixteen per cent. per annum. First class
railroad travel is only one cent per mile,
and yet the roads pay good dividends.
Pilfering officials are scarcely ever heard of,
and when they shock the nation by turning
up they are severely punished and forever
disgraced. No free passes are granted, and
managers and directors have no power to
pass anybody over the roads free. All
must pay the public rates. Dishonesty of
any kind or failure in business means pub-
lic dishonor, and utterly bars the dishonest
from any future public consideration. Four
millions of people live within an area of
20,000 square miles, a fact unprecedented
in any other country, and all appear to be
happy, prosperous, and contented. The
secret of this prosperity lies in the fact that
all live within their income, and that in-
dustry and honesty are principles so firmly
established that their violation is looked
upon as an outrage on the national charac-
teristics.


HAPPINESS—What elevating thoughts
are associated with the word happiness. It
is the aim of individual life. To attain a
degree of happiness amounting to content-
ment is considered worth all the efforts one
can make. To dispense happiness to others
should be one of the loftiest aims of exist-
ence; yet how shamefully this pleasure is
neglected. Selfishness creeps into the hu-
man heart absorbing its better qualities and
making its possessor wretched and unhappy
because the object pursued is controverted
through false means of attainment. If there
is any royal road to happiness it can only
be found by strictly complying with the re-
quirements of duty to God and our fellow-
men. When one learns what this implies
in its fullest sense, having no regrets to
banish, then there is some surety of a hap-
piness which will reach into eternity. We
owe more to others than we are wont to feel
willing to acknowledge.—Emile.


[Column 1]
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to acc[-]mmodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Sh[-]w and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the la[-]e[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Importe[-] Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

