IMPROVEMENT.

	This is, or at any rate should be, a time of
improvement; and if we do not improve,
it is certainly not because we have no room
to do so; neither is it for a lack of proper
teaching, and opportunities to learn what
is right. If I have a correct understand-
ing, this is the main object of our Mutual
Improvement Associations, that we may
exchange ideas, and prove a benefit to each
other; I think they have not been unsuc-
cessful, though I hope we shall see more
rapid progress made in the future than has
been in the past. How much we have each
been benefited individually, we can best
answer for ourselves; but from observation
I am convinced that in some respects there
is a decided improvement in those who
take an interest in, and are attentive to
their duties; one evil in particular I would
mention, which has existed among our
young people, (especially the girls,) to an
almost alarming extent, and which for a
number of years, has been steadily gaining
ground; it is the perusal of light, trashy,
and more than worthless reading matter; it
is worse than poison to the young and inex-
perienced, impressing their minds with
false and erroneous ideas in regard to life,
its aim, object and duties, besides produc-
ing many other bad effects. This injurious
habit, I am pleased to see is decreasing,
and I sincerely hope and trust that ere
long many others of our faults and failings,
especially that of tattling and backbiting,
(which I am sorry to say is still much too
prevalent among us, and which I fear most
of us are more or less guilty of) will soon
become things of the past, and that in their
stead we will cultivate principles that will
beautify our lives, ennoble our characters,
and enhance our happiness both here and
hereafter. There are other things com-
bined with our Associations, which have
been quietly and unobtrusively bringing
about these changes for the better, one is
the labor which is being done in the Tem-
ple; it has employed the time and attention
which might otherwise have been spent in
a less laudable cause, it has also increased
the work, which there has never been a

[Column 2]

scarcity of in this part of the country. It
is my opinion that if we properly attend to
all our legitimate duties and obligations,
we will have little time for either novel-
reading, mischief-making or fault-finding.
We certainly have the least excuse for do-
ing so, of any people on the earth, and in-
asmuch as we have received greater light,
so will much more be required of us.
	While we strive to improve, we must
guard against becoming over zealous a
sanctimonious appearance does not indi-
cate true repentance, it is often the hypo-
crite who blows his own trumpet, especially
if he had previously gone very wide of the
mark. I think this applies no less to women
than men. I fear I am digressing very much
from my subject, but if my readers will
bear with me I would like in connection
with this to say a few words to the girls in
relation to marriage. First, to those who
have not yet entered into the holy bonds of
matrimony, consider well the step before
it is taken; make it a matter of unceasing
and earnest prayer, until you are satisfied
that you are right, and when you have
made choice of a husband, one who belongs
to our Church, who is sustained and upheld
by the Priesthood and who is striving to do
his duty and live up to the requirements of
the Gospel, do not become so sanctified,
that you fancy because he may have some
fault for which perhaps society is more to
blame than himself, that he is not good
enough for you, and you must aspire high-
er, and consequently seek to be released
from him who took you in all faith, for bet-
ter or worse. Let us beware my young sis-
ters, for he that thinketh he standeth
should take heed lest he fall; for a step like
this might lead into darkness, and besides
can we expect the blessings of God to at-
tend us, if we destroy the confidence re-
posed in us, and break the covenants which
we have made in holy places? Besides we
all have our faults, and we need not expect
charity unless we extend it to others: a hus-
band's faults should be held sacred by the
wife, in my opinion, and if she prove false,
it may prove the ruin of the man whom she
has sworn to love and honor. If such
should be the case, where will the sin rest?
But enough of this.
	Improvement and progress are the order
of the day, they are marching onward with
rapid strides in some directions; new in-
ventions are being made, others are being
brought to greater perfection, wonderful
discoveries fill up the calendar of the past
age. But how is it with the morals of the
people of the world, are they improving?
Alas, no! they are becoming more corrupt-
ed every day, and wickedness is on the in-
crease. Then it becomes us as a people to
be valiant in the cause of truth, and use
our best endeavors to stem the current of
vice and degradation which brings nothing
but sorrow and misery. So let us be strong
and brave in the cause of Zion.
	KATE.
St. George, 1878.


