EDITOR EXPONENT:

	After a long silence I thought I would write
a few of my feelings, and reflections to you.
Althongh I have not written lately, I have
found time to read the EXPONENT. I find the
same spirit of persecution is still abroad in the
land as in days past, when the saints were
scattered and driven, and my heart burns with
resentment towards those who ought to protect
a mere handful of peaceful, loyal citizens. If
it were not for the God of Joseph in whom we
trust we should indeed be called to suffer much.
Our enemies are possessed of the same spirit
still, that incited them to drive the saints from
Far West, Nauvoo aud other places, when our 
brethren and sisters were butchered like dogs
in many instances. When I read the "Women
of Mormondom," and see what my dear sisters
passed through in those days, some to see their
husband and children murdered before their
eyes, my heart sickens to think that such was
their fate in a free country, because they obey-
ed the Gospel of Jesus Christ as laid down in 
the Bible, which book all the Christian world
profess to believe in. After having suffered so
much at the hands of our enemies, still they
are not satisfied, they will not be content to
leave us alone here in [-]ur "mountain home,"
but endeavor to legislate away our rights and 
priviliges as American citizens, and as we may
justly be termed exiles from home, country and
friends, yet that is not enough.
	But it is the Lord's work we are engaged in
and all the world cannot hinder its onward
march. As the prophets have said it will grow
and triumph over all foes until it fills the
whole earth, and He whose right it is to reign
will come and the kingdoms of this earth will
be given to the Saints of the Most High.
	I feel to encourage all my sisters, and say let
us teach our sons and daughters to obey the
laws of God, and be willing to abide in the 
New and Everlasting Covenant which in-
cludes the principle of Celestial Marriage. Let
us never suffer ourselves to speak lightly of
this sacred and holy order of matrimony. I
desire to bear my testimony to my sisters and
to the world, that it is the revealed will of God.
I entered into this holy order more than
tweny-three years ago; and have never had


any regrets but have ever felt glad that I had
the privilige of living within the requirments
of a divine law.  Sisters let us magnify our
callings as mothers  and wives in Israel, and as-
sist our husbands in keeping the laws that will
lead to exaltation and eternal lives.
	We are prospering here, our Relief Society is
in a healthy condition.  Our President Mary
Douglas, with her Counselors and the Teach-
ers, are doing all they can to comfort and help
the poor, likewise to carry out the counsels of
the servants of God in the storing of grain and
other public purposes. We have fifty-seven
bushels stored, belonging to this little Society;
we have our meetings once a month, which
are very well attended.  Bishop John I. Hart
meet with us occasionally and encourages us
to press onward in the good work we are en-
gaged in.
	I pray God to bless all that desire to do good
and to help build up this kingdom with much
faith, that we may overcome evil and be saved
and exalted in the presence of God. Amen.
