DOING GOOD.

	Doing good taken in its largest sense is the
geeat aim of the real Christian; but the desire
to do good in the abstract is usually more in-
herent in woman than in man; not that man's
nature is opposite, both do, or should have sim-
ilar aims in view and methods of work; but in
woman's character there seems to be more of
the quality of mercy that is not strained, "But
falleth as the gentle dew from heaven," than
in that of man. This tendency to mercy and
charity is the very soul of motherhood, and
adds to the purity with which one ever clothes
the name of mother. "My mother was good-
ness personified" is a remark quite frequently
made, by both men and women. Men in all
ages and at all times have given their atten-
tion more to what they considered the weighty
matters of life, and they are quite willing to
leave to women all the sweet charities and
tender ministrations of love, that are so nec-
essary to the human heart, and especially in
times of sorrow, or trial. At the bedside of
the sufferer, woman's presence has a peculiar,
almost magical charm: her gentle touch, her
soothing influence ever felt when her sympa-
thy is called into action by existing circum-
stances, is acknowledged by all the world. In
her nature are the very attributes of gentle-
ness, tenderness and all that refines, purifies
and elevates the soul. There is no sacrifice too
great, no self-denial she will not practice, if
she can comprehend it to be for good. Is man
conscious of all that woman lays upon the al-
tar that she may thereby elevate and purify
the home, subduing her own individnal aspir-
ations (often wholly) that she may add to the
happiness of others, of those she loves, reach-
ing out after the weak and erring, alleviating
the wants of the poor, seeking to relcaim the
wanderer, giving shelter to the outcast, and in
short performing all those acts of benevolence
that come within the pale of doing good.
	Christ's mission upon the earth was charac-
terized by doing good.He went about among
the people performing acts of benevolence, and
charity, healing the sick, and giving sight to
the blind, even restoring the dead to life, com-
forting the mourner, and in short doing good
to all who would receive His ministrations.
Jesus in His characteristics exhibited much of
the nature called feminine. The divinity
which was manifest in all He did, or said, is
akin to that which in woman is termed woman-
liness; and by the masses is often looked upon
as weakness. Woman has ever borne heavy
burdens of sorrow, in some instances (perhaps
in many) self-imposed, but nevertheless a
cross. One has only to read the Scriptures to
see what heroic self-denial women are capable

[Column 2]

of exercising. The story of Esther is one of the
rarest examples of sacred history, and her un-
precedented courage is without a parallel.
	The Scriptures afford many rare illustrations
of the elements of goodness in woman's char-
acter. And in later times history abonnds
with examples of woman's sacrifices for noble
enterprises and good works.
	There are, to be sure, few if any lives whose
scope is so narrow as to preclude all opportunity
for doing good. Every woman has her own
immediate circle, in which she may develop
her ability to do good. Every mother has an
extensive field to labor in. Her heart and
sympathies are enlisted, if she be a true moth-
er, in the development of all that is purest and
noblest in her children, and in so conducting
the affairs of home and life, as to conduce to
the continual well-being of her offspring.
Naturally enough she must take in a wider
range of thought than that which bounds her
domestic domain. How many thousand temp-
tations and evils there are to be met outside
the mother's influence, where her power is
vain to shield and ward off dangers, more ap-
palling than death, is easily comprehended.
	Is it strange that possessing all the capabili-
ties of a rational being there should spring up
in the mind of woman, new ideas and
thoughts in regard to stemming the current of
evil outside of home? That her aspirations to
do good should reach forth for new fields to la-
bor in, when she sees ofttimes how utterly pow-
erless are the utmost exertions that can be
made single-handed, to arrest the growth of
evil that continually gathers from every quar-
ter, and all ranks in life fresh forces?
	Is it very wonderful, we would beg leave to
ask, when the mother sees her darling boy, the
pride of her heart, and in anticipation the staff
of her declining years, become a drunkard in
spite of her exemplary life, her diligent train-
ing and constant prayers, that she should want
to know the cause, and causes? And is it so
very remarkable that having found sources pro-
lific of evil influences she should call up all
her latent powers of mind, and active energies
to assist in remedying deleterious causes. Is it
not consistent that she should seek to under-
stand for herself all about the state of public
morals, as well as the laws that regulate them,
and finding much that is impure, and unjust,
is it a marvel that she should desire to infuse
into the atmosphere which her own offspring
and posterity must breathe, all the elements of
goodness which she is capable of introducing.
	It is useless to attempt to enumerate all the
different phases of enlightened and free gov-
ernments, where man's power is almost abso-
lute, and woman be she wronged or unfortu-
nate beats, against the iron bars of custom in
vain. To be sure many women cannot see
that it is any use to vote and are more willing
to be imprisoned than free, but it is partly be-
cause they prefer to go on in the good old-fash-
ioned way to any change, lest it should involve
them in more or greater difficulties.
	Men have made rapid strides in many re-
spects in the last few centuries; great discov-
eries and inventions are constantly diffusing
new light in the world of science, but of what
avail will knowledge be, if there is no correct
system of government, no justice for mankind,
and mercy to "flavor justice."
	Woman's most active powers are, and will be
needed, not only in the home circle, but in as-
sisting to purify and elevate the tone of public
morals, and to do so, woman must herself live
to a high standard of excellence. Women of
fashion who live for pleasure and to kill time,
are treacherous to the divine nature implanted
in their bosoms. There is a higher and nobler

[Column 3]

purpose in life than can ever be reached by
such means.
	The element of goodness and of spirituality
in a true woman is always of a refining charac-
ter, and in whatever department of life her
presence is felt, it has ever been an incentive
to holy and lofty aspirations. If husbands were
more willing to take counsel of wives in most
instances no doubt it would be better policy;
but instead of both working together it is often
the case they pull against each other, and the
result is anything but a happy one. When
men and women are equal partners in the
great battle of life there will, to say the least,
be less cause of complaint. That the world
moves is easy to see, and that women move
with it as well as men, is now becoming pretty
generally conceded. The Lord is doing a work
in these last days and woman's share in it is
every day more clearly defined. Those who
are quickest to discern, whether men or wo-
men will perceive the dawn of new light in
the horizon and will proclaim the truth to
those who sit in dark places.


