IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED: At Wanship, Summit Co., Utah, Sat-
urday March 2d, 1878, about midnight, of pneu-
monia after a short and severe illness of less
than four days, Sister Susan Sanford Pierson
Richards. Deceased was the daughter of Hon.
Wm. Pierson and Nancy Richards Pierson of
Richmond, Berkshire Co , Mass., at which
place she was born Dec. 13, 1831. She obeyed
the gospel in the days of her youth, and was
baptized into the Church. In 1852 in company
with her mother undertook the perilous jour-
ney from her native place to gather with the
saints to their newly discovered home in the
Rocky Mountains. Nor did her courage fail
her when called to part with and bury her
dear mother by the way, at a place on the
Platte River known as the "Liberty Pule.'
Soon after her arrival in Utah she became the
wife of Elder Franklin D. Richards, by whom
she was the honored mother of a daughter,

[Column 2]

and two sons who survive to mourn her loss.
She was a virtuous, devoted and faithful wife,
a dutiful, anxious and indulgent mother, an
unwavering, patient and exemplary saint, who
lived true to the profession of her faith, while
she sojourned with us. Since the organization
of the Relief Society she has taken an active
part in the duties thereof, and filled the posi-
tion of Secretary until her death. Her re-
mains were brought to this city for interment
with the deceased of her husband's family in
the Salt Lake Cemetery. The funeral services
were held at the residence of her cousin L. W.
Richards at 1 o'clock on Tuesday March 5th,
President Joseph Young, Bishop Lorenzo
Young, and Elder Joseph F. Smith took part
in the funeral services, and many excellent
things were said calculated to comfort the rela-
tives and friends; Prof. Daynes with a choir
of sweet singers was present, and the music
lent a soothing and heavenly influence to
the so'emn occasion.

	IT IS with feelings of deep regret we record
the demise of one of our beloved sisters, Mary
Stubs, wife of Henry Stubs of Malad City; de-
ceased was born November 12th, 1854. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1869 with her parents, David
and Mary Morgan of Brigham City, from Alt-
oven branch, Glamorganshire, South Wales;
was married December 1st, 1873, in Salt Lake
City. She departed this life March 3rd, 1878.
aged twenty three years, three months. She
was a firm believer in the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel, and was full of faith and
patience. Her sufferings were truly great and
she realized the promise of the Lord that as
her day her strength should be; when suffer-
ing great pain of body she would say my faith
is good, but my body is very weak, but I will
try and be patient in suffering. After great
and continued suffering she at last quietly fell
asleep, leaving a loving husband and affection-
ate parents to mourn her loss; and while we
sympathize with the bereaved family and feel
the loss of our dear sister, we can look forward
to the day when the faithful dead shall hear
the Archangel's trump and come forward to
shine as the sun forever. Should we mourn as
those without hope? No dear sisters. Let us
prepare ourselves while here to dwell with our
Father in heaven and receive the welcome
plaudit, "Well done good and faithful servant,
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Our
dear sister whose death we record, was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society and the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association and was
ever anxious to do good. May it be our happy
portion when called to pass behind the vail,
like her to look forward with hope to a glori-
ous resurrection in the kingdom of our God.
	ANNE SAWYER, Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.
		So rest in peace dear mother;
			With our Father dwell awhile,
		When our work on earth is finished
			Greet us with your holy smile.

	DIED AT Horse Shoe Bend, Beaver Co., on
the 27th of January, Mrs. Kerziah Burk:
daught r of James and Mary Van Benthusen,
born in Albany, New York, May 15th, 1796.
She received the Gospel in the fall of 1830, in
Kirtland Ohio. She was in the second com-
pany of Saints who went up to Jackson
County Missouri; and shared in all the perse-
cutions that befell the Saints both Missouri,
and Illinois; Though ill in body, confined to
the bed, yet she was compelled through the
religious persecution to leave Nauvoo and cross
the plains, in company with the Saints, to set-
tle in the mountains. She was a faithful wife
and mother, and a true Latter-day Saint, and
died in the hope of coming forth in the morn-

[Column 3]

ing of the resurrection with the just made
perfect, and dwelling with her Redeemer.
