SPENCER.

	Sarah J. Andrews Spencer was born in
Savona, Steuben County, N. Y., October 21,
1837. Her father, Dr. Orra Andrews, was
a descendant of worthy ancestors' in Con-
necticut, and her mother, Elizabeth Loom-
is Andrews, belonged to an excellent family
in Yates County, N. Y. Her father was tal-
ented and cultured, but early in his married
life became a victim of intemperance, and
the finer instincts of his nature were thus
perverted. Her mother says, "No wonder
Sara is alive on the woman question. Every
drop of blood in her veins ought to cry out
for justice to women."
	When three years old Sara was taken
away by her father in one of his fits of in-
temperance, and the mother, hard at work,
had scarcely missed the little one from her
side, when a neighbor told her that father
and child were seen on the road to Penn
Yan. The mother hurried to the place
where the child was seen, and learned after
several days, that she had been taken forty
miles away and bound out to a family dur-
ing her minority. In an agony of doubt
and fear, the mother hastened there, deter-
mined to take the child, inside or outside
human laws, and defend her ownership with
her life, if need be. She found the little
one on the porch of the house where she
had been taken, and instantly brought her
away. Her mother wrapped her in warm
clothing and started for the carriage, not
daring to stop until they were out of the
county. From this time the mother, and
the two children whom she had stolen from
legal bondage and held by a higher law of a 
mother's devotion, were protected by the
community in which they lived in Savona,
N. Y.
	At thirteen, Sara removed with her
mother and brother to St. Louis; where she
attended a popular seminary, and was one
of the brightest scholars. At sixteen nec-
essity compelled her to give up graduating
and immediately provide for herself and
mother, and she began to teach in the "Old
Benton." On drawing her salary she indig-
nantly observed that she was paid only one-
third as much as the man who preceded her.
He had only himself to support. She had
been compelled to give up a classical course
to support her mother. She appealed to the
Board of Education for justice—in vain. At
nineteen she became principal of the Mound
female grammar school, the youngest prin-
cipal in the city. In 1863 she went to New
York with letters of introduction to Horace
Greeley and others. Mr. Greeley said, "I
like the way you talk, young lady; you
shall have employment." The next morn-
ing, upon his recommendation, she com-
menced work in the office of the "Scientific
American," one-half of each day, and in

[Column 2]
the afternoons and evenings wrote for two
daily papers and one weekly, doing fourteen
hours intellectual labor each day. At this
time she met and soon after married, De-
cember 26, 1854, Prof. Henry C. Spencer,
whose acquaintance she had formed four
years previously in St. Louis, when she was
principal of the "Mound." He had suc-
ceeded to the Spencerian authorship work,
in the place of his father, the author of the
Spencerian style and system of Penman-
ship. Mrs. Spencer at once assisted her
husband in the literary work of the "Spen-
cerian Key," and has been constantly by his
side in all the active business of life. In
June, 1866, they removed to Washington,
D. C., where they still reside. For twelve
years they have conducted one of the larg-
est and most successful colleges for business
training in the United States.
	"Is it possible you have children of your
own, Mrs. Spencer, and have time to do so
much important work for others?" is fre-
quently asked. "Yes," she answers.
	Instead of regarding the responsibilities
of motherhood as a reason for neglecting
the public welfare, as a devoted mother, she
deems it her highest duty to purify the at-
mosphere her children must breathe. She
does not remember a time since she first
heard of the ballot, and her mother's wish
to possess it, that she did not believe it was
a woman's sacred right.
	In January, 1871, the presentation of a
memorial to Congress against woman suf-
frage, from one thousand women of fashion-
able society, and attacks by these ladies up-
on Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and other advo-
cates of woman's enfranchisement, aroused
Mrs. Spencer's indignation, and she wrote
a series of articles for the daily "National
Republican," entitled "Problems on the
Woman Question, Social, Political and
Scriptural." The inconsistencies, weak-
nesses and follies of some of the women
who feared the demoralization of the ballot
were so graphically contrasted with the self-
sacrifice and heroism of the pioneers of re-
form, that hosts of converts to the cause was
the result.
	They were re-published by the National
Woman's Suffrage Association for general
circulation. Paulina Wright Davis said of
them, "their tender, beautiful, grand sum-
mary of the whole question should be upon
the table of every lady in the land."
	The chief work of her life is in search-
ing out and removing causes of vice, crime,
pauperism and wretchedness. She goes at
any hour of the day or night to give aid
and comfort to poor unfortunates who need
a helping hand, and is ever ready to shelter
the wanderer, the wronged and the outcast,
whom the world too often unites in con-
demning. This has led to similar efforts
in many cities where before no respectable
woman has dared to approach an outcast
even with a kindly word.
	Mrs. Spencer has been a member and of-
ficer of the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation for seven years, and is universally
regarded as a tower of strength for that
body at Washington. She watches daily
for all legislation concerning the interests
of women in any State or Territory, and
promptly appears against any measure cal-
culated to defraud or oppress them. She
was a delegate of the National Suffrage As-
sociation to the Cincinnati Republican presi-
dential convention, June 14, 1876, and ad-
dressed the Platform committee in behalf
of a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
form, and on the following morning, upon
motion of Hon. George E. Hoar, of Massa
chusetts, was invited to address the con-
vention; the first instance in the history o-


this country in which a woman ever ad-
dressed a national presidential convention.
	As chairman of the Resident Congres-
sional committee of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, Mrs. Spencer has sent
out within a year thirty-two thousand Six-
teenth Amendment petitions and appeals to
twenty thousand post-office towns in the
United States, and is in correspondence
with associations of women in thirty-five
States. With the later labors of Mrs. Spen-
cer in the Woman's Congress, and before
the several committees of the National Con-
gress, at Washington, most of our readers
are familiar, through the medium of the
daily papers.
	In conclusion, we think that every reader
will find encouragement in this brief histo-
ry of what one woman can accomplish.
With no influential friends at the beginning
of her career, with obstacles meeting her at
every step—before which many a soul has
faltered and failed—she has pressed untir-
ingly forward in her life of usefulness and
lofty endeavor, maintained by the conscious
rectitude of her unfaltering purpose. Let
our young workers take heart. There is no
obstacle too great for the dauntless spirit to
overcome!


