			INTEMPERANCE.

	Paul, in his epistle to the Corinthians,
writes: "Know ye not that the unrighteous
shall not inherit the Kingdom of God? nor
thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor
revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the
Kingdom of God." So far we have the
word of God on this subject, in favor of
temperance. in these last days He hath
said, "Inasmuch as any man drinketh wine,
or strong drink, among you, behold, it is
not good, neither meet in the sight of your
Heavenly Father." The growing use of
alcohol is destroying the human family; it
is the parent of crime, the cup of misery,
the source of ignorance, poverty, and death.
It is one of the greatest evils with which
the world is contaminated, and leads to
more crime than any other vice; the drink-
ing of liquor is increasing and working
great evil in this Territory. It has ruined
many men, and brought many families to
poverty and want; an evil whose vast power
cannot be over-estimated; "by their fruits
ye shall know them." "O," says the tempt-
er, "take a drink, it will not hurt you;" it
is by taking a drink now and then that men
and boys learn to be drunkards. So with
swearing and every other sin—it is the
first act that must be shunned. Can a man
claim to be a servant of the Most High to
be tempting his brethren, as does the sa-
loon-keeper, or the dealer in strong drinks,
when he wants patronage for his unholy
trade? True it is not the only road to per-
dition, but it is one of the most frequented.
There are many of our youth who are grad-
ually drawing nigh to that wide and wicked
way; the breath of intemperance has al-
ready scorched the brow of some of our
young men, and are such men fit to become
the husbands of our daughters and the fa-
thers of children? It is a wolf in sheep's
clothing, a destroyer of the innocent, the 
virtuous and pure. The effect of liquor
cuts down youth in all its vigor and extin-
guishes natural affection; it blights parent-
al hope, and brings down age in sorrow to
the grave. It covers the land with idleness
and poverty. It is time some measure was
taken to hinder this sale of ardent spirits.
This subject should be kept before the pub-
lic, until some movement can be determined
upon, to avert, if possible, this evil spread-
ing among our people. In years that are
passed there were no grog-shops to allure
and pollute the habits and morals of our
children. Would it were so now! but out-
side influences have crept in and these are
some of their fruits. Would that we could
see our children growing up pure and un-
spotted from the evils of the world! O that
there could be written in letters of fire, to
burn into their hearts, this sentence: Touch
not, handle not, taste not, neither tempt
others to do so. Resist the tempter and he
will flee from you.			M. J. C.


IF PERSONS were as willing to be pleas-
ant and as anxious to please in their own
homes as they are in the company of their
neighbors, they would have the happiest
homes in the world.


