ORIGINAL.

A dream I dreamed—not such as comes at night,
	When lost in sleep;
'Twas not a dream wherein the golden light
Of summer streams upon the longing sight,
Thrilling the heart with such a wild delight
	As makes it leap.
'Twas not a dream wherein the harvest fields
	Were just turned brown;
Nor when the ripened corn-field fulness yields,
To the blessed pow'r the sun-burned farmer wields;
Nor gaping range a favored valley shields
	With rugged frown.
'Twas not a dream recalling back a tear
	That longed to flow,
And trembled in the eyes of one then dear;
Nor where sad Autumn's tints through green appear;
Nor songs of birds fall soft upon the ear
	As falling snow.
'Twas not a dream where woodland echoes ring,
	Then hie away.
'Twas not a dream of newly wakening Spring,
Nor noonday scenes, with wild bees on the wing,
Nor winding forest path, nor garden swing,
	Nor childish play.
'Twas not a dream that tearfully recalls
	Joys once my own.
'Twas not a dream wherein the pale moon falls
In languor on some ruined ivy walls,
And with a ghostly whiteness floods the halls
	Whence life has flown.
'Twas not a dream wherein I fondly look
	On dear ones flown.
'Twas not a dream in which a rippling brook
Glides on through meadows sweet, with sudden crook
Laving the banks near some sequestered nook
	To lovers known.
But 'twas a dream wherin, supremely blest,
	Sweet thonghts unfold;
A dream wherein I sit me down to rest,
The while the golden sun glides down the west,
And blends, upon the ocean's waving crest,
	The green and gold.
A pleasant dream of breathing eventide—
	A Summer's eve—
When, half to wakefulness and sleep allied,
The mind, in hopeful numbers, would confide
The silent longings that have breathed—and died—
	And made it grieve.
A day-dream, when with partly closed eyes
	And heart aglow,
The mind, "as swift as meditation," flies
Ear from this world of tears and endless sighs,
And seeks the fairy realms where haply lies
	Surcease from woe.
A dream that blissfully reveals to view
	A land of rest,
Where faintest hopes assume a golden hue,
And gladness thrills in every heart anew,
To feel that e'en our wildest thoughts prove true
	And all are blest.
A joyful dream, where loved ones meet once more,
	Nor e'er shall part;
A dream where sweet Contentment, with her store
Of richest blessings, sits smiling at the door,
Where Poverty had often been before,
	With aching heart.
A dream in which Fame only can disclose
	Charms none would weep;
A dream wherein a sweetness of repose
O'er all the soul a gentle mantle throws,
And while my dream with new enchantment glows
	I sink to sleep.
'Tis strange, that wakened, one should be inclined
	To such a theme;
That all should be so palpably defined,
And dearest hopes with fairest scenes be twined,
And I, alas! should sadly wake to find,
	'Twas but a dream.
Salt Lake City, Feb., 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
