A DELIGHTFUL EVENING. 
On Friday evening, August 23, a unique
entertainment was given in ‘‘The Barna-
cle,” Kendall Square, by a few young
people for a very worthy purpose. We
approve of our children and young folks
cultivating dramatic talent in home circles
and also in being generous to those who
have spent means and ability in promoting
public interests, and have thus suffered
pecuniary loss, or have in any way been
unfortunate.  
The program of the evening was first,
Invocation by Elder David McKenzie, fol-
lowed by musical selection on piano and
violin, by Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ames.
“The Bear Story,” Kittie Bowring.
‘‘Romance,” Edna S. Ames. “The Blind
Girl by Castle-Quill,” Blanche Thomas.
"Footsteps in the Sand,” Alice McLaugh-
lan Music Recitation,“The Time to Love,” 
Elen Wallace Next a bit of nonsense,
“When the Cats Away,” Alice Mc
Laughlin, (the cat) May Carter, Blanche
Thomas and Edna Carter, (the mice) Miss
Meek, Hattie Carter, “The Latest Arriv-
al." Kate Thomas, “Sooty,” (for sport)
Rose Thomas, Sniffles (Sooty’s Comp’ny)
Elbert J. Thomas.
After the play friends gathered in the
parlor of the Hon. and Mrs. R. K. Thom-
as and the "Cat was let out of the Bag,”
by Mrs. Thomas, who announced in a neat


little speech the object of the play and the
invitations to those assembled, which was
a ‘‘Tribute of Respect and Friendship to
Elder H. W. Naisbitt, recently returned
from a mission to England.’’
	Brother Naisbitt is w[-]ll and favorably
known as a journalist, author and poet,
and during a long life has written much
that will be valuable to the community
and particularly to the Church, if these
writings can be published in book form for
circulation it will be an acquisition to home
literature of which the people of the future
as well as those of today may be proud.
	Mrs. Thomas, Mr. H. C. Wallace and
Mrs. R. E. Little set forth these facts very
clearly in speaking to the guests, and one
and all with hearty accord were ready to
respond to the sentiments beautifully ex-
pressed by those who addressed them.
	Elder Naisbitt responded briefly but
feelingly to the compliment paid him, and
the EXPONENT certainly desires to pay a
fitting tribute to the Guest of Honor of
that memorable evening’s entertainment.


