		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held in the
Academy Building at St. Johns, Arizona,
March 8, 1901, President E. S. L. Udall
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises and

[column 2]
the work of calling the officers’ roll, read-
ing minutes and Stake reports and presenta-
tion of officers was attended to, the follow-
ing brethren and sisters occupied the time:
	Sister Margaret Jarvis reported the soci-
ety of the St. John’s ward as in fairly good
condition.
	Sister Margaret E Patterson spoke on
the subject of “teaching our children to do
right.’’
	Sister Lucinda Richey compared our con-
dition here with that of the early days in
Utah, showing how much more favorable
our financial condition is.
	Sister Anna L. Anderson gave a nice
selection on the organ.
	Sister Rachel Berry drew a comparison
in regard to the exertions we make in intel-
lectual and financial pursuits, stating that
“if we were to make as great efforts to gain
information as we do to obtain the good
things of this earth, we would make much
greater progress than we now do.’’
	The song entitled “Not a Sparrow
Falleth," was sung by Sisters Anna Mal-
lory and Sarah Nicoll.
	President E. S. L. Udall read a letter
from the General Board in regard to the
proposed erection of a joint building
for association purposes. She said: “We
have sent a copy of the letter to each soci-
ety in the Stake, with an accompanying
letter from the Stake Board asking them
to comply with the request. If we attend
to our duties properly we have more com-
fort and cheer than when we are neglegent,
and the Lord blesses us more abundantly.
The nature of our temporal labors has a
tendency to draw our minds from spiritual
things. If we do not set good examples in
these matters, we cannot expect our chil-
dren to take an interest in them. We
should follow this motto, “Be yourselves
what you would have your children be-
come.’’
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr, by request, read
a poem from the EXPONENT, entitled,
“Words that Bless,” then spoke of the in-
spiration in good poetry, that touches the
finest chord in our hearts. Also said she
had noticed a spirit in many to make more
rapid progress and live better lives, since
the dawn of the new century.
	Elder E. N. Freeman spoke of the tend-
ency that temporal labors have in drawing
our minds from the spiritual things of life.
Every thought that is evil tends to a down-
ward course, and from the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh. There is a
great work for us fathers and mothers to
do.
	Elder John I. Lesueur said: “I believe
the Relief Society is one of the best organ-
izations we have in the Church. When
there is sickness or distress of any kind,
they are always on hand to assist. I feel
to support this organization, not only by
my faith, and prayers, but with means
when necessary.
	President David K. Udall spoke of the
care that should be exercised in setting
proper examples before our children; that
we educate them to be pure in thought and
action. Said to the mothers, “Keep your
boys off the streets and at home as much as
possible. Do not let them go out with
crowds of men and boys when not neces-
sary.
	The choir sang, “The God that others
worship is not the God for me.” Benedic-
tion by Patriarch H. J. Platt.

[column 3]
