			WAYNE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference was held at
Lyman, June 11, 1901, President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing. Prayer by
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn. Singing,
“Come, let us anew." Minutes of the pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	President Coleman prayed that we might
be fed with the bread of life. She felt that


[Column 1]
union and good feeling existed throughout
the Stake, as far as she knew. We should
always keep in view the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters at the
organization of the Relief Society. Read
the Greeting from the General Board, and
instructed the secretaries in regard to their
records.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to meet with the sisters at conference, felt
weak in her position, had to depend con-
stantly upon the Lord. We should live
near to our Heavenly Father and teach our
children the gift of faith. The Lord will
assist us to do our duties. We can be use-
ful in many ways if we make good use of
our time. We should speak well of each
other, such as we give we shall receive.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was pleased for
the opportunity of meeting at Relief Society
conference. We should enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, and not murmur. Was
pleased with the Greeting from our leading
sisters, they were noble women. She
could see the growth of the Relief Society,
had lived in the days of the Prophet. We
have everything to encourage us. If we
continue faithful we will gain our reward.
	Freemont Relief Society was reported by
the president, Louisa J. Taylor, who said
the society was prospering.
	Lyman society was reported by President
Helen A. Maxfield in good running order.
Sister Lucinda Brown was pleased to speak,
felt we are truly a blessed people, could see
so many prophesies being fulfilled. The
time is close at hand when the Savior will
make his appearance, let us be diligent in
the discharge of our duties.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah G. Meeks, who said they
were doing well and improving in good
works.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased to
meet with the sisters and brethren. She
had attended the Mutual Improvement con-
ference, and enjoyed a very instructive
time. Spoke upon prayer, said we should
appreciate the labors of the aged brethren
and sisters. We should prepare ourselves
to become better wives and mothers.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke upon rais-
ing families and being good mothers, do-
ing our duty in this calling and the bless-
ing of the Lord would be upon us. “Let us
try to realize our true calling and may the
Lord bless us and prosper Zion.”
	The choir sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Benediction by Elder
E. H. Maxfield.
	Afternoon session. After opening ex-
ercises, Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe read
the second Greeting from the General
Board, then talked on the subject of the
Woman’s Building, on the necessity of tak-
ing an active part to help build it. Spoke
on marriage and raising families.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
counselor L. C. Ostberg in good condition.
	Loa Relief Society was represented by
Counselor Sarah Rust as doing well.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn said we should
be thankful for the privileges we enjoy.

[Column 2]
Our parents have suffered much to estab-
lish us in the valleys of the mountains.
We should be what we seem to be, that
our influence may be for good.
	Patriarch Blackburn spoke upon chastity,
living pure lives. Said we do not all
understand alike. This life is all the
mortality we will have. If we are truly con-
verted we will live the laws of God. Felt
there was much seeming neglect. Jesus
said work while it is time, today. There
is no excellence without labor. Spoke up-
on the subject of marriage and encouraged
mothers to do their duty by their children.
Said the law of chastity should be better
kept in Zion. Bade the Relief Society God
speed, it is one of the helps of Zion.
“Sisters, do your duty, for you will be
brought to judgment. Your influence is
great, and where much is given much is
required. Arise in the name of the Lord
and teach chastity.”
	Sister Sarah A. Morrell bore her testi-
mony and exhorted all to have willing
hearts to respond to the requirements of the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison spoke upon
rearing children. Many young women did
not wish the trouble of families. Said we
should teach our daughters that it is
a woman’s mission in the marriage relation
to become a mother, and to keep in view the
great command of the Creator to multiply
and replenish the earth.
	President Coleman spoke on sericulture.
They are still making advance in this re-
spect, planting mulberry trees and raising
cocoons this season. Was very pleased
with the instructions received, and trust
we will go to our homes and practice what
we have been taught. Felt grateful to our
Heavenly Father for the flow of the Holy
Spirit that has been present with us at our
conference. Let us live so that it may be
our constant companion to lead us in the
path of life.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder B. Turner.
