WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Hall, July 6, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Singing, “Arise, O glorious Zion.”
Prayer by Sister C. C. Cannon. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne felt sorry we could not
hold the quarterly conference at the usual
time, but the house was undergoing repair
and could not be made ready. Felt happy
that our sister missionaries were doing so
good a work. President Lyman, who has
just returned from the British mission,
spoke of the good work the sister mission-
aries were doing there. Believed Christian
Science to be a strong delusion that is lead-
ing many away.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who has just re-
turned from a two years’ mission in Great
Britain, felt the faith of the sisters here had
helped her in her missionary work. She
had found many good women who were
trying to find the truth, but the ministers
have a great influence over them. It is
very hard to reach them, they are so pre-
judiced against the word “Mormon,” but
some were glad to hear from the women in
Mormondom. The Lord is the one who
makes converts, it requires the mission-
aries to be faithful, prayerful, fast and thus
sow the seed. She desired the sisters to lay
their burdens at the feet of the Lord, and
after you have done your part do not mur-
mur Found the Relief Society in Ger-
many in a more prosperous condition than
elsewhere, said they were warm-hearted
and kind to the missionaries. People gen-
erally do not believe that men and women
will go into the world and preach this un-
popular doctrine without pay. Alluded to
the influence of women, how they were
branded by refusing a cup of tea or beer.
Spoke of the wicked spirit Mrs. Stenhouse’s
book brought to those who read it; also of
the evil influence Jarman people brought to
bear against us, they tell the most un-
reasonable lies. However there are a few
who will embrace the Gospel. Referred to
the bravery it takes to fight against error.
Thought she never honored her father so
much as when she thought of his departing
from his old home and following those who
had the true Gospel Felt she had re-
moved much prejudice among her father’s
family, that she had visited all the confer-
ences, and women that it was possible to
meet; that she had enjoyed her mission more
than she could express; had realized the
joy a little money brought to the mission-
aries in relieving their little wants. “Zion
is Zion” to those who make it such. The
spirit of the Gospel out in the world is one
of union and love. Exhorted all to live
righteously and love each other.
	Sister Pond spoke of the prejudice among
her relatives in the East, and of the good-
ness of the sisters to the missionaries
in the world. Told of her exper-
ience in bearing testimony to people in the
world and of their prejudices.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Alder’s experience was very similar to
her own. The world thought the women
of Zion were down-trodden. Spoke of the
way “Mormons” are pointed at with a
finger of scorn by the people of the world,
and of the good that could be accomplished
among them; thought Lucy B Young was
doing a great deal of good in Germany,
though she is more than seventy years of
age.
	President M. I. Horne said the reason
we meet on Saturday is when Jordan
and Granite Stakes belonged to Salt Lake,
that it was a more convenient day for
women to meet here. In Granite Stake all
the branches of the Relief Society meet on
Thursdays. Would like all to pay their
dues within two weeks if possible. An-
nounced an excursion for next Tuesday to
Saltair, by the General Relief Society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by J.
S. Woolley.
