		PANGUITCH STAKE.

	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in Escalante Tabernacle,
June 14, 1901, President Elizabeth DeLong,
presiding.
	There were present of the presiding
priesthood of the Stake, the Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and one of her
counselors, also many brethren and sisters
from the different wards.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer
by President David Cameron. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read. Roll
called, four wards out of ten being well 
represented.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke at
great length about the Word of Wisdom,
caring for children, the erection of the
Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City and
the duty of teachers.
	Sister Nancy Riddle reported Escalante
ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong reported
Panguitch; Sister Chaffin, Circleville ward;
Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke on the
privileges of the Relief Society and also the
Peace Congress and read a piece from the
EXPONENT. President Cameron said it
was necessary for the mothers to have full
knowledge of the Gospel so they could
teach their children the principles of the
Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Counselor James
Houston.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor M. M. Steele.
Singing. President Elizabeth DeLong
stated that Sister Adelia Crosby, on account
of her many duties, wished to resign her
position as Stake secretary. her resigna-
tion was accepted.
	Margaret Haycock was chosen in her 
place and was elected by unanimous vote.
	A circular letter from the General Board
was then read by Counselor Adelia Crosby.
	Counselor M. M. Steele spoke of the
freedom and liberty of the women of our
society compared with the women of the
world. Singing by the choir. Meeting
continued by presenting for vote the
General and Stake officers, all of whom
were sustained.
	Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke urging
the mothers to pray for their children that 
they may not be led astray.
	Brother Twitchel was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Spoke a short time on
prayer. Choir sang.
	Sister Shirts felt like doing all she could
to help the society.
	Sister Twitchel was pleased to have the
privilege of meeting with the people, bore
a truthful testimony. 
	President DeLong thanked the choir,
also gave a little good advice to mothers.
	Sister Riddle thanked the sisters for their
visit.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing.
Benediction by Louis Duel.
