						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO CANADA.
Dear Exponent:
	Sister Susan Grant and myself left Salt
Lake City for Canada on the evening of
Thursday, May 23, 1901. The mission
before us was to visit the different branches
of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciation in the Alberta Stake of Zion.
	Yesterday, July 11, we completed that
mission, holding our last official meeting
with the Relief Society in Ætna. We held
meetings in nine settlements, namely,
Ætna, Cardston, Caldwell, Kimball, Leav-
itt, Magrath, Mountain View, Sterling and
Taylor. Beazer, a small, widely scattered
ward, has as yet no Relief Society or
Primary organization. We would have
been glad to visit there, however, and but
for stormy weather and bad roads, which
have hindered our work to some extent,
should likely have had the privilege of
doing so.
	Of the work being done in the Relief
Society here, we have certainly only good
to report. Never has it been our good for-
tune to find truer or more energetic work-
ers in the cause than those who are en-
gaged in it in this locality.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf possesses in
truth and in a very high degree the spirit
of her calling as president of the Relief
Society in this Stake. The faith, courage,
patience and wisdom which she exhibits in
her work, seem to be so heartily approved,
supported and emulated by all who are
laboring in connection with her, that a
most perfect unity appears to be maintained
in all their undertakings, and they under-
take a vast amount of work for the pro-
gress of the kingdom of God, as well as the
world in general, where occasion offers.
	What more need be presented to show a
good and healthy state of affairs in any
organization?
	They have taken hold of the idea of the
Woman’s Building soon to be erected near
the Temple in Salt Lake City, with a zest
which promises well for the assistance they
expect to render towards its completion.
And that is the way they seem to grasp and
carry out every plan which is presented for
the furtherance of the good cause.
	Realizing that a short report will be read
by more people and with greater interest
than a lengthy one, while much more
might be told of the meritorious work being
done by the society here, I will conclude
this with the following lines.

