with trees, large and covered with flowers,
their fragrance is delightful. Five rods
from the door the grand o’d tide rolls out
and in. A lover of nature could not help
admiring this situation. Nothing but the
want of society is felt here. The good peo-
ple sent us in food to last us a week, cooked
ready for use and nicely tied up in leaves.
	This morning I took a long walk to see
an old hollow tree which is reported to
have been in the “taueteni” the abode of a
man who was pursued by his enemies, a
whole year, and was fed by a sister. Nine
of us entered the tree together, had room
to move about. Two branches of equal
size supported by the middle are hollow,
and there are openings from one to the
other, so the man could change his position
when wearied with his confinement.
	From the tree we were conducted by
Alexander to one of the old “morai’s”
places of worship in the “taueteni.” It
consists of huge stones set up in the form
of a square room. One very high above the
rest they worshiped as God. Flat stones
are laid upon the ground, under which the
heads of their enemies are buried, sacrificed
to their gods A dense growth of cocoa
nuts overshadowed the place. We rested
beneath the cooling shade, drank freely of
the water and pursued our journey. Called
at a native house where everything was
neat and clean. A young woman was
seated on a mat with a babe in her arms.
We conversed with her in the Tahitian
tongue and she treated us to beauiful pine
apples.
	From thence we started on our way
home.  Not far had we gone when a mes-
senger met us with the joyful intelligence
that the Ravai was in port and “Paraita”
was on board.
	The two eldest daughters were far in the
rear. The messenger passed us and car-
ried the news to them. Quick and hasty
were their footsteps till they reached the
house and met their father. Now, they
exclaimed, our wishes are realized. When
the house was fitted up we felt it would
avail us nothing without company. We
were informed the vessel had encountered
three severe gales of wind since it left this

[Column 2]
port; did not make Tahiti, neither the chain
Islands, except Ana and Matea.
	The 11th day. Paraita preached three
times in the native language. The people
all appeared joyful on hearing the voice of
their missionary once more. 
			(Continued.)


