EDITORIAL NOTES. 
President Jane S. Richards accompan-
ied by Sister Ruthinda E. Moench,
attended the Relief Society conference of
Nebo Stake held at Payson, August 15,
and though the weather was unfavorable,
the meetings were fairly well attended and
a good spirit prevailed.
President Jane S. Richards, accompan-
ied by Sister Emily S. Richards, attended
the Relief Society conference at Pleasant
Grove on July 26, at which time Mrs.
Rebecca Standring was elected president
of the Relief Society of the Alpine Stake
of Zion, the former president having re-
signed her position on account of ill
health. 
Sisters Lydia D. Alder and Harriet Ann
Badger went to Deseret to attend the Re-
lief Society conference of Millard Stake on
Friday, August 23. There was a good at-
tendance, Stake president, Elizabeth F.
Yates, from Scipio, presiding. The visit-
ing sisters enjoyed the trip and the meet-
ings very much; an excellent spirit was
manifest in the conference.
President M. I. Horne and Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson attended the Bear Lake
Stake Relief Society conferences and other
meetings in that locality during the month
of July and the first part of August. The
conferences were held, one in Montpelier
and one in Lake Town, and Sister Horne,
though now eighty-two years of age,
traveled in visiting the Stake, over one
hundred miles by team. She returned in
good health and spirits.
The visit of Kentucky editors with their
friends, including wives, sisters, daugh-
ters, cousins and aunts, was a very pleas-
ant affair. The genial and courteous
Southern woman is always greatly appre-
ciated in the West, and really one cannot
help acknowledging there is something
very soothing in amiability, especially to
those whose cares and responsibilities are
too much for their nerves. Everything
that the Utah press could do to add to the
enjoyment of the "thoroughbred” Ken-
tuckians was arranged for, a reception at
the Kenyon, recital at the Tabernacle, trip
to Saltair, were among the enjoyable fea-


tures of their visit here, and so far as
known these press people went away with
favorable impressions of the Mecca of the
West.


