INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES. 
	The annual executive session of the
International Council of Women was held
at the Hague, July 10, and 11. A report by
cable testifies to a successful and interest-
ing session, presided over by the vice-
president, Lady Aberdeen. At this ex-
ecutive the National Councils of France
and the Argentina formed during the past
year, were received into membership in
the International.
	Since the adjournment of the Interna-
tional Council news has come from Bul-
garia of the successful organization, after
two years of preliminary effort, of a Nation-
al Council of Women of that country, with
an application for affiliation with the
International Council. The application
came too late to be acted upon at The
Hague, but the president of the Inter-
national Council will at once send for the
written ballots of the presidents of National
Councils, that Bulgaria may come in as a
peer with the other nations in this inter-
national band.
	Through the courtesy of the Board of
Women. Managers of the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo, the International
Council of Women opened a headquarters
in the Women’s Club House on the
Exposition grounds on August 7, to con-
tinue during the months of August and
September. This bureau of information
will be open daily from 11 to 12 o’clock a.
m. Beginning with August 7, weekly
conferences will be held on successive


Wednesdays. The subject will be “Inter-
nationalism and its Promotion by the
Council Idea.” No programs will be
printed for these conferences, but all visitors
at the Pan-American Exposition interested
in the progressive work of women will be
welcomed, and speakers from different
parts of our own country, from Canada,
and from the different states of South and
Central America, will discuss the subject
above named, each from her own point of
view as modified by her nationality and the
needs of her own country.
	The Council stands always for friendly,
co operative nationalism. It is intended to
make these conferences a means of stimu-
lating increased interest in organization as
a method of promoting good work in South
and Central America. The successful
organization of the National Council of
Women of Argentina, which on June 9th
voted unanimously for affiliation with the
International Council, augurs the success
of the Council method in the states of
South America.


[Column 1]
SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.
	The Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized on the 17th of March, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course this day
is remembered in a fitting manner by the
several branches of the society as each year
rolls around.
	To this rule, we are pleased to say, the
Relief Society of the Hamburg, Germany,
branch of the Church was no exception,
and accordingly had a program and enter-
tainment arranged to take place as a fitting
commemoration of the 59th anniversary of
its organization on the date above given,
and in the year of our Lord 1901. Sunday
falling on 17th of the month, and the regu-
lar meeting day of the members of the
society being Tuesday, it was decided to
hold the entertainment on the 19th instead
of the 17th.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg, like
most societies in the world, and away from
the bulk of the people of the Church, labor
under many unfavorable conditions and
disadvantages. None the less, in spite of
all opposition it has grown, through the
faithful work of its members to be the
largest Relief Society in Germany. The
society stands at present on a strong found-
ation, and has a very bright future before
it.
	On the occasion above mentioned the
guest of honor was our worthy sister, Lucy
B. Young, the president of all the societies
in Germany. It was indeed a great pleas-
ure both to Saints and Elders of the branch
to have Sister Young in their midst and en-
joy her company in a social as well as in
an official way.
	As before stated this concert was held to
celebrate the organization of the Relief
Society. It had also another object no less
worthy, which was to gather in old and
make new friends, that they might all hear
something of the message for which so
many of the Elders are now laboring to
promulgate in this and other fields.
	It was felt by those present that both
objects were admirably attained, particular-
ly the latter, inasmuch as there were a
large number of new friends present, some
of whom are now faithful members who then
visited the meeting for the first time
	The program as rendered was as follows;

[Column 2]
Song, “Tochter-Zions,” choir. Prayer,
the president Sister Eblers. “Song of the Re-
deemed,” choir. Speech, Conference
President C. P. Ferrin. Speech, Sister
Lucy B. Young, translated by Brother R.
P. Haag. Piano solo, Elder Spencer C.
Clawson., Jr. Tenor solo, “If thou didst
love me.” E. P. Ferrin. Violin solo, Frau
Salzuebrod. Speech, Brother R. T. Haag.
Song, “The Beautiful City, choir. Clos- 
ing prayer, First Counselor Marie Krain-
acke.
	The eighth number on the program was
rendered by a friend who is an accomplished
violinist. A hearty encore was tendered the
performer, to which she responded.
	At the close of the program the chairs in
the hall were quickly carried to an adjoin-
ing room and gave place to tables spread
with the dainty repast of “Mormon coffee,”
cakes and sandwiches. Those present
were not long in availing themselves of the
feast, and soon the sandwiches were but a
memory.
	The people did not vanish with the ban-
quet, however, but remained to hear a few
impromptu numbers from the choir and a 
few remarks by Brother R. T. Haag. The
early hour of one a. m. saw the last of the
guests under way for home and a good but
short night’s rest which it is hoped they all
enjoyed.
			CHARITON P. FERRIN,
					Per W. C. M. 
	Berlin, July 19, 1901.


