		ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving her the most,
Straightway relieved her from life’s weary load.
“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before;
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore;
And God himself their Lord and Judge and King.”

	There are no words to express the sorrow
one feels when a beloved friend passes
away, and yet we all realize we have no
cause to mourn for them but only for the
loss it is to those who remain.
	Sister Zina, whose demise we now re-
cord, was one who will be missed in the
community by all the people, and in the
Relief Society, of the Church, the largest
organization of women there is, and the
one first organized now in its sixtieth
year, she will be missed for her counsel,
her sympathy and all those noble and kind-
ly qualities of heart and soul that help to
bind together, encourage and uplift all
those who have a membership therein.
	Aunt Zina’s presence everywhere was
like a benediction. She possessed in a
large degree those endearing and genial
characteristics that inspire and strengthen
human affection, as well as the exalted
attributes that lift the soul to higher things
than the ordinary affairs of every day life.
Perhaps no woman in the Church had
more intense sympathy with sorrow and
suffering, and she was often significantly
spoken of as “Zina, the Comforter,” an
appellation well merited. Added to this
she had that rare intuition in emergencies
to know just what to do, as well as to
soothe and assuage grief. This presence of
mind and inspirational gift in times of
severe illness or of accident, together with
great faith in administering to the sick,
made her invaluable wherever her help
and assistance could be obtained. She
was sent for, far and near, when there was
affliction, grief or death in the households
of the Saints, and even by those not of the
same faith. No wonder her body was
worn out by fatigue, for she, too, was only
human physically, after all, and yet she
carried the burdens and sorrows of others
uncomplainingly to the very last.
	Sister Young was a highly gifted
woman in many directions, inspirational
and eloquent. As a natural speaker she
could not be surpassed, her words flowed

[Column 2]
from her lips free and easy whenever she
arose to address an audience, and she had
that wonderful faculty of carrying her hear-
ers along with her; they felt the power of
her sublime earnestness and never wearied
of listening.
	Her tenderness of manner, as well as of
heart was always apparent She was full
of love, the most admirable traits of
womanly character and virtues were notic-
ably exemplified throughout her life.
Obedience to authority, especially that of
the priesthood, great humility, faith and
integrity to principle, true unto death;
firm in her convictions as the everlasting
hills, yet abounding in charity, that true
“charity that never faileth”
	It is difficult to tell in what special vir-
tue she most excelled, and we do not all
see alike. Some of her dearest friends say
faith was her strongest characteristic,
others, sympathy, and again others,
charity, and still others humility. One
dear friend speaks of these qualifications
as Aunt Zina’s jewels, Faith, Love and
Charity.
	Volumes might be written of her life and
experiences, but we can only give very little
in an article like this. It was given her to
be greatly beloved by the masses of the
people; and thousands, and tens of thou-
sands, perhaps, have sought her counsel
and been blest in taking her motherly ad-
vice. But she has gone from our sight,
and we shall miss her Madonna face and
motherly advice in our meetings. For
years she has been the one woman whom
we all sought after and delighted to honor,
and it will be hard indeed for some of us
who have been so long and so closely as-
sociated with her to accustom ourselves to
her absence. One by one the veterans of
the Church are being called home. Many
of the men and women associated with
Sister Zina in Kirtland, Missouri, and
Nauvoo, have long since departed, and
now she, too, has gone to join that in-
numerable company on the other side.
	Sister Zina, as she is affectionately called
by thousands of people, has undoubtedly
finished the work assigned her to do upon
this earth, and has certainly made a
glorious record. It has been said of her
over and over again that she was one of the
choice spirits reserved to come in this day
and age of the world, to assist in the estab-
lishment of the Latter-day work. And
this mission she has filled with honor and
credit to herself and entire satisfaction to
all who know her life work. A beautiful
life, complete and well-rounded.

“O, selfish sorrow of selfish hearts!”

	O, we of little faith! who mourn for one
whose tired feet have reached that beau-
teous shore, and joined the “Choir Invis-
ble.” Sister Zina has fought the good
fight, kept the faith, and has received all
the blessings, gifts and powers that entitle
her to an endless life in the celestial king-
dom. All this we know and realize, but,
alas, we are human and our hearts ache for
the love she bestowed so lavishly upon her
friends. We poor wayfarers must still
struggle on and try to believe and follow
her righteous example and say with the
poet:

“We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongue be
		dust,”

[Column 3]
	President Zina D. H. Young, of whose
life we give a brief sketch, departed this
life at her own home in this city, on
Wednesday morning, 8:55, August
28, 1901, at the ripe age of eighty years,
six months and twenty-eight days.
	It may truthfully be said of her that she
fell asleep peacefully and breathed her last
without a struggle. On June 27 she left
this city, accompanied by her son, Chari-
ton to visit her daughter in Canada, and
while there enjoyed herself very much,
visiting with the members of her immediate
family, children, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren, also beloved brethren and
sisters in that locality. After about two
months pleasantly passed she expressed a
wish to come home and the journey was
planned. She was to come with Brother
and Sister Levi W. Richards, but on the
morning of starting she was taken sudden-
ly ill and her daughter, Sister Zina Y.
Card, felt she, too, must come with her.
	Sister Zina became unconscious about the
time they left Spring Coolie, on the border
of Canada, and remained in that comatose
condition until she passed into the spirit
world. That an escort of loved ones from
behind the veil accompanied her to the
place prepared, we who know her cannot
doubt.
	O, for one glimpse of her beautiful face,
one gentle clasp of her tender, sympathetic
hands, one loving embrace, but that is not
possible until we meet in the great hereafter.
	The funeral services and other reminis-
cences will be published in the next issue
of the EXPONENT.
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born Jan-
uary 31, 1821, in Watertown, Jefferson
County, New York. Her parents were
William and Diantha (Baker) Huntington.
The Huntingtons and the Bakers are both
old New England families, so that Sister
Zina was, like many other early members
of the Church, purely New England origin.
Her father was a patriot and fought in the
war of 1812, and her grandfather, William
Huntington was a Revolutionary soldier,
and Samuel Huntington, one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence, was his
uncle. The genealogical record reads
“Simon Huntington, Puritan immigrant,
sailed for America in 1633. He died at
sea, but left three sons and his widow Mar-
garet.”
	The church records of Roxbury, Mass.,
contain the earliest records of the Hunting-
ton name known in New England, and is
in the handwriting of the Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
“Margaret Huntington (widow) came in
1833, her husband died by the way of small
pox; she brought children with her.” Wm.
Huntington, grandfather of Aunt Zina,
married Presendia Lathrop, and the Lath-
rop’s, too, were of the old New England
families.
	The Huntington’s embraced the Gospel
in Watertown, New York, and their
daughter, Zina, was baptized by Patriarch
Hyrum Smith, August 14, 1835, and soon
after the family moved to Kirtland. The
same year Sister Zina received the gift of
tongues; and it was also in Kirtland she
received the gift of interpretation, and no
woman in all Israel ever had that gift more
perfect, as thousands can testify. Her
spiritual faculties were very highly devel-


[Column 1]
oped even in that early time, and she heard,
on one occasion, in the Kirtland Temple, a
whole invisible choir of angels singing, till
the house was filled with numberless voices.
She was also a member of the Kirtland
Temple choir, very few of the members are
now living. She was also present on the
memorable Pentecost when the spirit of
God filled the house like a mighty, rushing
wind.
	The Huntingtons were among the Saints
who went up to Missouri and suffered in
those terrible persecutions of the people;
her mother died during that eventful period
from fatigue and privation, and only two
of the family were able to follow her re-
mains to its last resting place. Sister Zina
came with her father and other members of
the family when driven from Missouri,
across to Nauvoo, then called Commerce.
They were all sick, and she has often
spoken in terms of endearment of the kind-
ness of Sister Emma Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph, who ministered to their
wants during this trying time of sickness
and trouble.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina received and
obeyed the principle of plural marriage,
and after the martyrdom of the Prophet,
when the Nauvoo Temple was finished for
ordinances, she was united in marriage for
time to Brigham Young, and with the
Saints left Nauvoo in the month of Febru-
ary, crossing the Mississippi river on the ice.
and enduring untold hardships on account
of her delicate health and the inclemency of
the weather. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, a
resting place for the exiles, Father Hunt-
ington was called to preside, and his daugh-
ter, Zina, remained with him temporarily.
Sickness was prevalent, many of the Saints
died and were buried under the most trying
circumstances. Father Huntington was
one of that number, and after that was
over, and Sister Zina had seen her father laid
away, she came on to Winter Quarters
and resided there until the body of the
Saints who had sojourned in the Pottawat-
tamie country until President Brigham
Young, after his return with the Pioneers,
started with his family in the spring of
1848 for the Salt Lake valley.
	Here our beloved Sister Zina passed her
time in works of love though living
in tents and wagons until log houses were
built, and in one of these, her daughter,
Zina, was born, April 3, 1850.
	Sister Zina lived many years in the
famous Lion House, and was, in fact, and
in very deed, a Mother in the family
especially in all times of sickness, whether
of children or grown people. She has ever
been one to lean upon, a pillar of strength
to others, beside her own. Although her
own immediate family was not very large
only three children, to her was given the
care of four of President Young’s children
whose mother died, and for these her love
went out as to her very own, and she
trained them up in the same tender affec-
tion and solicitude as her very own, and as
a, mother they hold her in the highest rev-
erence and cherish for her the most sublime
and dutiful love and feeling.
	To tell of a tithe of what this noble hero-
ine has done would more than fill these
pages, but we must add a word or two con-
cerning her public labors.
	She studied obstetrics and nursing under
Dr. Willard Richards and practised for
many years successfully. When the Re-
lief Society was temporarily organized after
her arriyal in Salt Lake she became one of

[Column 2]
its first officers and a devoted worker. When
the silk industry was introduced she was
among the first to attempt experimental
sericulture, and has done more to promote
that industry in Utah and among this peo-
ple than any other person. It has been a
subject in which she never lost interest.
	When the Relief Society was permanent-
ly reorganized throughout the various
wards, President Young called Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Sister Zina D. H. Young to look
after the organization. They traveled to-
gether in this interest throughout the settle-
ments wherever wards were organized, and
when the Retrenchment Associations were
inaugurated and Sister M. Isabella Horne
was called to preside she chose as her first
counselors Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Later when the
young women were organized Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina were called by President
Young to lead out again in that work.
	Sister Zina has also been an efficient Sun-
day School teacher for forty years and more
until her numerous duties in other direc-
tions required all her strength. In the or-
ganization of the Primary Associations she
manifested the same disinterested zeal and
earnestness that has characterized her
whole life, and in every movement for the
betterment of the human race.
	Sister Zina’s travels have extended be-
yond the Stakes of Zion. During the
summer of 1879 she visited the Sand-
wich Islands, partly for her health.
She was accompanied by Miss Susa Young,
and had the opportunity of meeting several
celebrated people and imparting reliable
information concerning our principles and
our people, and she also was a blessing to
the Hawaiian sisters and they were proud to
honor her and show her reverence. In
1881 she visited relatives in New York and
Vermont, her son, then Lieutenant now
Colonel Willard Young, accompanying her.
During her absence she attended the
Woman’s Congress in Buffalo, Woman’s
Suffrage Convention in New York City and
organized a Relief Society in Cohoes
Albany Co., N. Y. She had the privilege of
speaking at many public gatherings and
was made the guest of honor on several oc-
casions. In 1882, accompanied by the
writer, she represented Utah at the Na-
tional Suffrage Convention held in
Omaha. At the time of the World’s Colum-
bian Exposition in Chicago, 1893, Sister
Young attended the great Congresses of
women in that city, and presided at a De-
partment meeting of her own Society, and
made a most favorable impression, upon
many of the leading women, by her gentle,
winning manner, notably Isabella Beecher
Hooker, May Wright Sewall and Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon.
	At the Congress of Charities and Phil-
anthropies she was shown very marked at-
tention, and she was a conspicuous figure
at the National Council on the Sabbath
day, sitting among the woman ministers on
the public platform.
	After some weeks spent in Chicago visit-
ing the various buildings and attending
Congresses, Sister Young, accompanied by
her brother, Oliver Huntington, again
visited her birthplace and its environs, in
the State of New York, and collected some
further genealogical material.
	It would scarcely be possible to live a
more active and busy life than Sister Zina’s
has been and each year has added wisdom
and grace to her refined character and man-
ner. Words are inadequate to express her

[Column 3]
nobility and her true womanliness. She
has gone from our midst, we cannot see
her angelic face smiling upon us, nor hear
her sweet voice in blessing or prayer, nor
can she come to us in sickness as she was
wont to do. But we know she is happy,
happy beyond expression. And we who
remain must bear our loss with patience
and resignation.

	The golden dawn of the Day of God
		Shall smite on the sealed eyes,
	The trumpets sound shall thunder around,
		The dreamers shall wake and rise.

	When the night is over, the sleep is slep
		They are called from the shadowy pla
	The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land
		And gaze on the Master’s face.


