PIONEER DAY IN CHICAGO.
	We are quite sure our readers will be
glad to know that Pioneer Day, July 24, 1901,
was appropriately celebrated by the few
Utah people who are at present located in
the great city of Chicago. It must have
been a very pleasing program, by the notes
of it we have seen, and it shows how some
educators who have come into our midst
have been impressed with our institutions
and our people.
	Col. Parker, who taught a summer
school in Provo, at the B. Y. Academy ten
years ago or more, and other members of
the faculty of the Chicago University, were
present by invitation at the Utah gather-
ing on Pioneer day, and Col. Parker ad-
dressed the audience. The following para-
graphs are taken from the report made to
the Deseret Evening News, of this city.

	Among the enjoyable features of the program
may be mentioned the song, “Utah, we love
thee.” by the whole company; a recitation by
Miss Maud May Babcock; a short address upon
Utah schools, by Mosiah Hall; The Chicago
University, by Guy C. Wilson; The Western Girl,
by Miss Bush a recitation by Miss Alexander;
two male quartetts by our missionaries and an
oration, “The Pioneers,” by N. J. Porter, which
was particularly fine.
	Col. Parker in a very happy mood described his
labors in Utah nine years ago, and closed a most
complimentary address by an impressive and elo-
quent prophecy, that the descendants of those
Pioneers, whose exploits we were commemorating,
would yet occupy heights in intellectual and moral
superiority in the world far greater than the alti-
tude of their mountain homes might symbolize.
	He was deeply impressed with the sturdy vir-
tues of the people whose contact with him quickly
brushed away his former prejudice and planted in
his heart a deep and abiding love and respect for
them.
	He was followed by Miss Ziona Baber and
Miss Flora J. Cooke, both of whom had labored
in Utah at summer schools for teachers. The
many Utah teachers who listened to them when
there will be pleased to know that the most
pleasing and vivid impressions were made upon
their minds while in Utah, and Miss Baber related
at length to the writer the delightful time she had
while in Utah.
	She lived with Aunt Zina Young during her so-
journ there, and learned much of the domestic life
of the Latter-day Saints, which impressed her
favorably in the highest degree. She mentioned
with the greatest admiration the children of men
who had more than one wife, as admirable types
physically and intellectually, and freely admitted
that Mormon domestic relations had been greatly
misrepresented and misunderstood.


Miss Alice Stone Blackwell returned to
Boston yesterday from her summer’s out-
ing at Martha’s Vineyard.


