LITTLE MARIAN’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	Children’s parties are very much the
fashion nowadays, in fact the little folks
have a great deal of amusement and play-
time since Kindergartens have come to be
so popular in this country.
	Marian’s party was a great success, out
on a beautiful lawn, under the shade trees,
where about thirty little girls from three
years to five, all in dainty summer gowns,
were blowing bubbles and blowing horns,
swinging in hammocks, and so forth, laugh-
ing, talking and entertaining each other,
while the older sisters helped, with the
playing of games, and mammas gazed at
them through the open windows and door-
ways.
	By and by Marian’s papa came with a
kodak and took a few snap shots as they
were grouped carelessly around. At five
o’clock they were seated at table and served
with goodies that children delight in, and
it was interesting to watch them and see
how social and free from restraint they
were, and what interest they took in each
other, and it was indeed a very charming
picture. Then there were souvenir cards,
hand-painted, with ribbons attached on a
tray, with blank side up, from which each
little girl drew one with the ribbon, a very
unique way of distributing the cards.
	But after all the most fun seemed to be
in blowing bubbles.

“By sports like these are all their cares beguiled
	The sports of children satisify the child.”

	Marian was three years old on the day of
her party, Friday, August 2, 1901, but she
will be sure to remember it.
	Those invited were Helen and Dorothy
Spencer, Helen. Talbot, Hattie Parker-
Mary and Ruth Taylor, Dorothy Palmer,
Martha and Florence Wells, Katharine
Cannon, Emily Grant, Hortense Pratt,
Edith and Louise Wells, Alma Cannon,
Helen Knowlton, Louise and Marian Eller-
beck, Marie Dougall, Emily Young,
Florence Ware, Ruth Spence, May Cart-
wright, Geneva Wells, Margaret and
Katharine Marshall, Phillis and Fannie
Lynch, Marian Whitney, Libbie and Ruth
Wells, Louisa and Miriam Wells, Mary
Johnson, Lucile Buchholz, Florence and
Irene McDonald and Helen Godbe.
	The older ones, who assisted were Alice
and Mary Wells, Grace Grant, Emmeline
Cannon, Josephine Cannon, Ethel Liddle,
Chloe Burns, May Bigelow; Mesdames Etta
Ellerbeck. Cynthia Spence, Susie Wells,
Josephine Pratt, Alley Marshall, Blanche Par-
ker Edith Knowlton; also Annie and AdaCan-
non, Alta Godbe, Isabel Buchholz, and E. B.
Wells; the host and hostess of the party,
Mr. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, at whose home


it was given and the little “guest of honor,”
Marian Buchholz.


