A WOMAN MISSIONARY. 
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	There is a grandeur in the sound of the
sea which seems to soothe the soul when
some one would intrude. It bears witness
of the Creator’s works.
	Last night the sick woman died. She
was laid out on clean grass, a white spread
thrown over her. Her face was not covered.
Some one sat with a large leaf to keep off
the flies. The coffin was made of a canoe
of tamana wood, (island mahogany) in
which she was laid after being wrapt thick-
ly in native cloth. A thick plank was
nailed on for a cover, outside the coffin
unnumbered thicknesses of cloth were
wound, native and European. The coffin
being of the most imperishable wood wrapt
in such a quantity of cloth, will not, in my
opinion, decay in fifty years. A great
feast was made by the relatives from which
all the people in the village received a
portion. The corpse was carried away on 
men’s shoulders without ceremony.
	Last evening we spent two hours in
gazing at the moon, expressing our sur-
prise at her singular appearance One 
part was red like blood emitting no light
at all, though nearly at the full. Brother
Alexander being a superstitious man pro-
nounced it a forerunner of evil. Told the
people with whom we were stopping it
was an omen of something strange to take
place. So long had we been away from
the world, and not having seen an alman-
ac in two years, we had forgotten there
was ever such a thing as an eclipse.
When it rushed upon our minds we were 
ashamed that we had not known it at first. 
We then explained all to the ignorant peo-
ple and their fears were removed.
	This morning I rose before the day
dawned and went to walk upon the beach.
The moon was shining with the most re-
splendent brightness. There was the very
stillness of death around me. All the
dwellings were fast locked in slumber, the 
tide had just receded far on the reef,
scarcely a breeze to be felt. The atmos-


[Column 1]
phere was calm as the sweet breath of
autumn but, oh, so solemn I gazed over 
the mighty ocean towards that land so far
away, and I seemed to feel that I had died
and gone to an unknown world.
	I at first thought I would raise my voice
in song, a morning hymn; but it seemed an
intrusion, on the sacredness of the hour to
make the least noise. I felt that secret
prayer was more congenial to the deathlike
stillness of that little world in the midst of
the mighty ocean. I revolved in my mind
the self-denial of my whole life, and said,
“If my Heavenly Father is pleased with
the little good I have done, all my sorrows
will be forgotten.”
	The 9th day. Last evening we moved
into the house Brother Alexander has been
several days preparing for us. It is a large
house all in one room, built in ancient
style, round ends. Three pillars in the
centre are covered with carved work curi-
ously wrought. The house is whitened
with coral lime inside and out, long grass
laid for a floor on which mats are spread.
Five high post bedsteads curtained around
with fine white tapa. A very long table
made from a tree which floated here from
some island, the leaf more than three feet
wide without a seam.
	The building is almost entirely shaded
