[Vol47 | September 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Kelley]
[A Problem, a Pet, and the Picture Louise Morris Kelley]

Kid gloves, gone from stark white to cream with age, were pushed wrinkling from wrists to armpits. High button shoes, soft leather lke a baby's palm, were made to flap around our shins. We were in our glory. HEN we found it. Coral silk — vards and yards of it. It was - rolled up as is a scroll, to save wrinkles and fatal creases. One of us held onto the roll while the other took two corners firmly in hand and backed away from the trunk. Out the door she pranced and right on out to the clothesline. It was not a wide piece of beauty, only about two fect. Along either edge was a border some four or five inches wide of curious gold threads so cleverly woven in with the silk that they gleamed and shimmered and startled the eye with loveliness. When the scarf was entirely spread between us we raised our arms high above our heads, then jerked them down, all to see this pinkish silk flutter and billow and pause in midair as a cloud at sunset. After that we held it to our waists and swung toward each other with little dancing steps taken in small circles which brought us ere long together in a wrapping of gossamer silk. Out again we would swing ourselves, and 575 then repeat the motion as before. The dance of nymphs expert with fibers and sunshine and mist and joy could not have compared with three girls and what they had found in an old trunk. Too sad that the high note so struck was not the last, or so we felt at the time. It has taken adulthood's view to say it was better to have it end as it did. Ecstasy was boundless at the very moment that Grandma Morgan came to the door to throw out the dishwater. At the sight of us she gave out a sort of wail or moan. Such unbelief was heard in her protest at what we were doing to her beloved treasure that we froze in our tracks, dropped the scarf, gathered courage, and started for the shelter of the orchard. She recovered quickly enough to call after us to come back now. We fairly crawled back to her presence, so humble were we and so majestic was she. She lovingly gathered the length of priceless goods to her heart. As she did so she rolled it up hand over hand in a sort of muff and sat on the back step and cried into its folds. This was absolutely stunning to us. Whoever had seen Grandma with tears in her eyes? We plumped ourselves on the ground in front of her, folded our arms, and waited. As she crouched over the scarf and wept, she sort of bent forward and looked as if she were shrinking, littler and littler. She wasn't much bigger than we were anyway, but suddenly we wanted to comfort her and take care of her and straighten her shoulders and make her smile, and be our wonderful Grandma forever and ever. As we leaned toward her she withdrew her hands from 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 the scarf and unwound it a bit and placed a length of it around our shoulders. 'There we sat in front of her, the long piece tieing us together. Her dark eyes now ceased to cry, and she felt impelled to tell us her story. Her ancestors had ruled India long before the English came to claim it as a protectorate or department or whatever they chose to call their tenure of her land. After that era of great sorrow, war, and adjustment, no one was truly happy in India, neither the British nor the natives. So fallen were the fortunes of her father's house, that they were the servants where once they had been masters. 'They were refugees, where once they had been conquerors. At twelve, called a woman in India, she became the personal servant to the wife of a British military officer. NE night as her master and his family were singing hymns in a little arbor in their garden, they were disturbed by a rude knocking at the gate. A guard was sent to investigate, but got no satisfaction from two sailor lads who demanded entrance. The master, therefore, went to quiet the protests of both his man and the intruders. 'The insistence of the strangers that they come in and join in the singing was listened to and soon all was calm. After the practice the master asked the boys where they had come from. Good Old England, they informed him, just disembarked from nearly a year at sea. He wanted to know why they had come to his home.