[Vol47 | September 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Martin]
[The Rich, Full Years Betty Lou Martin]

We can change that habit. A good practical beginning would be a complete housecleaning. We can go through every room, every closet, cupboard, and drawer and take out everything we do not need, or are not storing for a future need, pack the articles which might be useful to someone else and send them to the Deseret Industries, or, where there is no Deseret Industries, search out people in need of them. Our homes will be clean and our spirits will be lifted. Now let us make a survey of our family activities over a period of time (to be really "scientific" it should cover at least six months so that seasonal factors would be included, but a shorter period will give us valuable information.) A chart for each family member on which a complete time and activity record can be kept for each twenty-four- SLEEP WHEN THE WIND BLOWS hour day should be made. Show money earned, and how, money spent, and how. When sufficient data have been accumulated examine the charts in a family council. Decide together which activities have been worth the time and money expended on them, and plan any desirable changes. Check income and expenditures and make plans to improve the family finances. Check menus for meals against the basic food requirements for health, to make sure the family is being wellfed. Read the 89th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants again and note the cautions given concerning the use of the foods provided for man. Are we being prudent in our use of them? Having made the survey of what we are doing, it will be possible to set up a workable budget of time, activity, and money which can make our resources meet our needs. Samuel Johnson gave a bit of excellent advice on budgeting. He said, "Whatever you have, spend less." HRIFT is a homely word, but a good one. It means economical management. "A penny saved is a penny got." "Waste not, want not." "Remember, that time is money." You can think of many such sayings which our grandparents knew and lived by. Perhaps we should follow the counsel of Horace when he said: "As soon aS a man perceives how much the things he has discarded excel those which he pursues, let 573 him turn in time, and resume those which he relinquished." The kind of thrift our ancestors practiced could balance many otf the tottering family budgets of today. Sewing, breadmaking, home canning, a vegetable garden, all helped to stretch meager incomes to provide the necessities and, often, some luxuries for the family. The same thrifty habits are as practical now as they were a hundred years ago. In many families today this Kind of old-fashioned thrift would make it possible for the now working mothers to stay in their homes with their families and _ build much needed family solidarity and strength. When cleaning out the unneeded things from our homes, we will have an opportunity to check the supplies we have stored, the food, clothing, bedding, household supplies, first-aid materials, etc., which our prophets, for many years, have urged us to keep in our homes. By obedience to their directions, we not only insure our physical safety and comfort in difficult times, but we gain spiritual strength through our obedience. Self-examination is the best examination. How well am I filling my role? Am I a good help meet? Am I a wise, understanding mother? Am I covetous? Am I burdened with many things? Am I a good neighbor? Do I have peace of mind? Does my husband? Are my children happy? Am I my sister's keeper? Do I love God? Am I obedient? Can I sleep when the wind blows? My Shird G randma Part I — SARI Ilene H. Kingsbury Y other Grandmas lived far away, and I saw them briefly once or twice a year. My third Grandma was in reality my proximity Grandma, for she lived in the next house south. She was not my "blood relation," but was as deeply beloved, and was known by no other title than Grandma. Because the freedom of Grandma Morgan's home was ours, we often played house in the small lean-to off her kitchen. This room was a sort of storage department for Jonathan apples, a sack of bran, a couple of tool chests, old pillow cases of dried plums, and cast-off boxes and trunks.