	ORANGE, MASS., Aug. 11, 1883.
MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	Here we are in your "dear old New England,"
that we have heard so much about all our lives.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	I went to the Dickinson meeting at Amherst
all alone, don't you think I was brave? I prayed
that I might be directed just what to do and
where to go, and I know that I was. Arriving
at the Amherst Depot there was a perfect jam,
but I looked out for a buss, and as it drove to the
hotel and all the others got out I followed suit.
I had no idea what to do next, but I saw two
real nice looking ladies standing near, and I
plucked up courage to go up and introduce my-
self; they were, as you may suppose, Dick-
insons ladies come to attend the meeting.
I do not know how one so dindent as I,
and timid in society, could do such a thing,
but I did. When they knew I was from Salt
Lake, which fact I lost no time in telling them,
I did not need to say anything more. I went up
stairs with them, and was introduced to Dickin-
son after Dickinson, hundreds of them, it seemed
to me. They wore all very nice people, and as
polite and kind as could be. We soon started
for College Hall.
	There were between two and three hundred
members gathered, and they kept coming in for
some time after. The President of the day, M. F.
Dickinson, Jr. of Boston, was a very fine looking
man, and presided with a great deal of ease and
dignity. Uncle has sent you the papers giving
you all the particulars much better than I can.
There were a great many vice presidents, a sec-
retary and recording secretary. In fact it was
quite an elaborate affair, and everything was in
perfect order.
	Prayer was offered by Rev. Leigh R. Dickin-
son, of Grace Church, at Great Bend, Pa., and
then an address of welcome was delivered by
the President of the day. The address was ex-
cellent, and must have been carefully prepared,
and his manner was pleasing and graceful. He
alluded in the most happy way to the worthy
ancestry of the family of Dickinson. There were
a great many very beautiful thoughts expressed
in his speech. He said a great deal about the
early settlers of New England, of their endu-
rance, their sacrifices and struggles for civil
rights and religions liberty. He said, "It is no
mean distinction to have descended from such
stock. One of those adventurous spirits was
our common ancestor."
	"It is now almost 250 years since Nathaniel
Dickinson landed at Boston, and prior to 1637
found a home at Wethersfield, 40 or 50 miles
below Amherst. In 1659 he planted the perma-
ment seat of our family, and deeply rooted the
name of Dickinson, and here nine succeeding
generations have already risen to call him
blessed." He gave quite a sketch of the family
history, and said "Nathaniel Dickinson died at


[Column 1]
Hadley, June 16th, 1676. The records of his
life deserve to be perpetuated. * * *
No pencil or artist has preserved to us the sem-
blance of his features, no gravestone marks his
resting place. We only know that he sleeps is
the only burying ground at Hadley."
	The next speech was from the orator of the
day, Rev. Charles A. Dickinson, of Lowell, a very
handsome and noble looking man. It was a
historical address, and was received with great
enthusiasm. He gave an extended account of
lineage, claiming all of the name as descendents,
whether spelling it Dickinson, Dickenson,
Dickerson or Dickarson. He stated that in
searching for the ancestry he had heard stories
enough to make a Dickinson cyclopedia. He
said, “I of course discovered among their faces
“my lord and my lady.” Out of the traditional
and historical lore * * I have
sketched such fragments as may enable you to
sketch for yourselves the outlines of our family
tree. We may congratulate ourselves that we
have noble blood in our veins; not merely the
blood of Plantaganets which has doubtless be-
come rather thin by this time, but the blood of
a sturdy line of honest men and women.” 
He spoke eloquently of a few of the distin-
guished dead, and glowingly of the future. His
speech was happily interspersed with poetry ex-
pressive of his subject, which made it all the
more interesting. The next was a poem by
Elizabeth Dickinson Currier, of Worcester, read
by the orator of the day, followed by a humor-
ous essay by Edward B. Dickinson, of New
York City; then a poem by Dr. Gideon Dickin-
son, of Milford. They were all very good and I
enjoyed the speeches very much. They had
what was called “a roll of honor,” hanging on the
wall, containing all the names of the Dickinson
family who had made themselves distinguished.
There was also a chart showing the branches of
the family, and giving some names and a few
dates. 
	After the close of the meeting the
members adjourned to the dining hall; Mr.
Plympton and his wife, of Boston, took me with
them. 
	After dinner we were all seated in front of the
hall for the purpose of having a picture taken.
There were a number of speeches by different
representatives of the family, all very good;
then the President read a telegram from some
member of the family in Colorado; next came a
letter from father, which was preceded by a very
neat speech from the President; he alluded to his
visit to Salt Lake four years ago, and of his visit-
ing places of interest, and being introduced to
father, who he said interested him very much.
He said when he was introduced to father he
told him his grandmother's name was Experience
Dickinson, and then they had an extended con-
versation about families, Dickinson and Wells.
He spoke very highly of father indeed, and then
begged leave to read the letter; every body
seemed delighted with it. * * *
	After the close of the meeting I went up on to
the platform and the President came forward
and introduced me to those who had taken part
in the exercises, and a great many more Dickin-
sons. I went home with the President and his
sister and sister-in-law; it was a lovely drive
through pastures and grand old trees; we passed
the Agricultural College and grounds, they are
just beautiful. The old farm house is a grand
old place. Some of the big elm trees had been
planted by their great, great grandfather. They
all welcomed me so warmly. They had heard
father’s letter read before the meeting.
	There was a reception in the evening, which
was very enjoyable. The time was spent in
singing, dancing, waltzing and in conversation.
After it was over I went home with the family

[Column 2]
and we sat in the parlor and chatted until all
were tired. * *	* * *
	The next morning Belle came over from
Thorndike, and we accompanied the party to
visit the large College; we enjoyed it very much
indeed; then we drove out to Old Hadley, which
was part of the programme. The drive sur-
passed any I ever had taken, and the scenery
too, right along the Connecticut River all the
way was grand. Visited the old home of Na-
thaniel Dickinson, the original settlement of
223 years ago. We went through the old grave-
yard. Some of the stones were so old that it was
impossible to read the inscriptions. * *
We took dinner on the top of Mt. Holyoke, and
the view there—was beyond description.
The whole valley lay before us with its fields,
pastures, woods and cities. I shall never, never
forget it. We could see into four different
states, and with the telescope could see and dis-
tinguish houses, churches, etc. The only regret
I had was that we could not have longer to stay
there. On that day we met ever so many more
nice people, and had a delightful time.
	We expect to have an interesting time here
going over all the places, of which we have
heard you talk so much, visiting your child-
hood’s home.
	Lovingly,
