TO A MOURNING FRIEND.

	You have mourned, you have shed the sa-
cred tears, the only true “holy water;” you
have given nature her due; she is imperative
ever of her rights, and justly so; you have
amply responded to her demands; you have
raised the cenotaph! it points to hea-


ven, where pure spirits rest in beatitude; now
let the vision fade, let it gradually fade into
the past; secret, silent sorrow feeds on vitality,
and drains the springs of life, and produces
barreness of spirit; don't I know it? Away
with it! Life was made for action, not listless
repinings; turn another leaf in the book of life,
there are pages in it you have not yet studied;
seal down the past, and let "by-gones be by-
gones."
	There is a time in most lives when a great
sorrow has fallen upon us; it forms an epoch
in our lives, we feel the springs of life have be-
come dry and arid; the poetry of our life is
gone forever.

We feel as though a funeral pall
This mighty sorrow had let fall,
Upon our soul, our heart, our brain,
Never to be upraised again!

	We sit passive beneath its crushing weight;
this is our night of sorrow, "but joy cometh in
the morning—" Yes to every night there is a
day, a renewing power to the mental stagna-
tion; an angel descends as of old, and moves
upon the waters of our Bethesda! and lo! and
behold we are regenerated! We arise and
shake off the incubus, and again start in the
race of life, "like a giant refreshed"—Shall we
ever love again? We hope not; we never wish
to love any human being again; we have passed
through so severe a crucible, that the furnace
seemed "heated seven times hotter" for us—
but as time passes we find we have come out
purified if calcined—we seem to have new
thoughts, we view life through a more enlarged
Lens, we are calmer, more rational, the poetic
still mingles sweetly through our being, and we
realize that "the silver cord and the golden
bowl" still holds the precious gems of our soul,
which sorrow has only purified and reset in a
mould more becoming our present, improved,
because more enlarged view of life and its
appendages; the Car of Juggernaut has passed
over us—but the votary still lives! we return to
the dream of our youth, and it preserves us as
a talisman from all contamination, and brings
heaven around us with its cherubim and sera-
phim; as a "good Samaritan" fain would I
pour "the oil and wine" of sympathy into thy
bleeding heart—and I feel "the peace of God"
will surely descend upon you, and behind this
heavy cloud you will realize His smile of love
and peace.		Ever thy friend,
