LINES ON LEAVING ENGLAND.

Farewell old England! Thou hast been to me—
	Albeit a stranger to thine ancient strand—
A friend to whom, while longing to be free,
	I yet shall grieve to give the parting hand.
'Tis not that thou art fair, for fair thou art,
	Far more than fame—than fancy's tongue hath told,
'Tis not thy royal court, thy rushing mart;
	Thy verdant meadows, fields and forests old;
Nor ruins grey from time's unfailing flight;
	Nor palaces, nor temples manifold,
Nor all that woo's and wins the wondering sight,
	Where art and nature rivalling unfold.

Ah! no; all these I willingly forsake,
	For scenes to me far lovelier and more dear,
From which to part did erst this bosom shake,
	While from these eyes fell many a tender tear.
But 'tis that here I leave, perchance for e'er,
	Hearts loyal, warm and loving, but for whom
My ling'ring stay amidst, which doth appear
	As brief and bright as Spring's ephemeral bloom,
Would seem an exile desolate and drear.

Talk not to me, proud world, of worthier deeds
	Emblazoned on the scroll of earthly fame,
Where charity, self-trumpeted, may read
	On flattery's page each gift and giver's name;
Talk not of friendship, tenderness and truth,
	Till thou hast seen how bright that love doth burn,
Which sows the seed of unrespecting ruth,
	Nor hopes a golden harvest in return.

Can I forget, when friendless and alone—
	Outcast for sake of Him who lived and died
That man might live and never die—the tone,
	The kindly clasp, the cordial smile, that vied
With each the other, friendship's truth to tell?
	Or memory's air lose redolence of deeds—
Fair fruit of faith undying—deeds that fell
	Like sunbeams on the soul, or goodly seeds
On fertile soil, all fruitful of their kind,
	To bloom and blossom on through endless years?
No, no—rather shall all-remembering Mind
	Forget itself, ere mine itself forswears.

But see!—the sails are spread, the favoring breeze—
	Whereof our gallant bark hath little need—
Blows oceanward, and o'er the rolling seas
	By winged steam impelled we swiftly speed.
Friends, brothers, sisters dear! a last farewell!—
	Not long I trust, though long it still must be,
Howe'er so brief, till mutual bosoms swell
	With blest reunion's fond felicity.
Adieu! adieu! How sad the parting sound,
	Let sighing winds and sobbing waves now tell;
Onward speed onward, bark for Zion bound!
	Old England, bonds and Babylon!—farewell!
