BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Monday, 29th. Several men presented
themselves at the dwelling of President George
Miller this morning, some came into the house
and enquired for him while others remained
outside. It was suspected that they were after
him with a writ, and although President Miller
was present and before them all the time, no
one knew him; neither did any of the breth-
ren, several of whom were present, seem to
know where he was, and the suspicious indi-
viduals soon left. At two o'clock word was
brought that a company of soldiers were in
from Carthage. They proved to be four dra-
goons. They came up the hill; went around by
the east end and north side of the Temple, out
of the north gate and drew up in front of
President George Miller's."
	An alarm was raised that the troops were
endeavoring to get into the Temple, and Presi-
dent Young ordered the lights taken out of the
stair case, but they said they were searching
for hogs, said to have been stolen from Mr.
Hibbard.	*	*	After prayer
was over	*	*	President Young and
Elder Kimball went into the tower,	*	*
spent half an hour and returned—spent near-
ly an hour reading Captain Freemont's narra-
tive, then retired for the night."
	"Tuesday, 30th. Almon W. Babbit came
in at half past eleven and reported that the
marshal had left Carthage for Springfield, and
there would be no more danger from writs.
P. P. Pratt has been engaged part of the time
in forming a schedule for a pioneer company
of 1000 men to precede the body of emigrants,
to find a proper location, and to put in seed
early in the summer.	*	*	*
	"The labors of the day having been brought
to a close at so early an hour (half past eight)
it was thought proper to have a little season of
recreation; accordingly, Brother Hans Hanson
was invited to produce hisviolin. He did so, and
played several lively airs; several excellent
songs were sung, in which several of the breth-
ren and sisters joined. The "Upper California"
was sung by Erastus Snow; after which Sister
Whitney, being invited by President Young,
stood up, and invoking the gift of tongues,
sang one of the most beautiful songs in
tongues that was ever heard. The interpreta-
tion was given by her husband, Bishop Whit-
ney. It related to our efforts to build this
house, and to the privilege we now have of
meeting together in it—of our departure
shortly to the country of the Lamanites, and
their rejoicing when they hear the Gospel, and
of the ingathering of Israel. Altogether it
was one of the most touching and beautiful ex-
hibitions of the power of the spirit in the gift
of tongues, which was ever witnessed, (so it
appeared to the writer of this, William Clay-
ton). After a little conversation of a general
nature the exercises of the evening were closed
by prayer by President B. Young."	*	*
	December 31st, he wrote, "President Young
and Elder Kimball are superintending in the
operations of the day—examining maps with
reference to selecting a location for the Saints
west of the Rocky Mountains, and reading the
various works which have been written and
published by travelers in those regions."	*	*
At six o'clock the High council, the High
Priests and the Seventies met together for
prayer, each quorum by itself, and all dressed
in the	*	*	holy order of the
priesthood. Thus ended the year 1845, in the
Temple of our God."
	January 1st, 1846. Thursday. "This day
is the first of another year—the morning is
rainy, the ground very soft, and the mud very
deep. A heavy mist rests on the low ground

[Column 2]

under the bluffs; the sunlight is very dim be-
ing nearly shut out by the dark, heavy clouds,
which overspread the whole face of the sky,
and everything around wears a gloomy and
dismal aspect—but notwithstanding the un-
favorable appearance of things the brethren
and sisters are assembling together in the
house of the Lord to receive their endowments."
Thus wrote William Clayton; he also says—
"The plasterers have commenced this morning
to plaster the arched ceiling of the lower hall
of the Temple; the floor is laid, the frame work
of the pulpits and surrounding seats for the
choir and band are put up, and the work of
fitting the room for dedication and holding
meetings therein progresses very fast."
	New Year's evening I, with quite a number
of young friends, had the privilege of receiv-
ing the holy ordinances; and William Clayton
wrote the following:
	"After a little time had elapsed the whole
company were assembled together in the east
room; in number about fifty, and all knelt
down upon the carpet and united with H. C.
Kimball in thanksgiving to God for His great
mercy and goodness to us in granting us this
opportunity of meeting together in the house
of the Lord, and in prayer to Him that He
would continue to bless us, that He would bless
President Brigham Young with health and
wisdom, that he might be able to lead and di-
rect this people, and that the same blessings
might be extended to all his brethren of the
Twelve, and on the Saints, and that God
would bless our wives and give unto them
strength of body, that they might live and ad-
minister to the servants of God, that they
might see three score years and ten, and behold
the Kingdom of God established in the earth,
and that we might be enabled to continue in
Nauvoo in peace until all the faithful Saints
had received their endowments, and that when
the time to leave here should arrive that we
might have those things that we need to enable
us to go away in comfort—that to this end our
possessions might look good to those who are
round about us, that they may buy them and
pay us gold and silver and snch things as we
may need; also that God would bless our chil-
dren and all things that pertain to us, and dedi-
cating the whole company to God, gave Him
the glory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen."
	Wm. G. Young and Adelia C. Clark were
then married by President Brigham Young;
his nephew, Brigham H. Young, and Sidenia O.
Clark officiated as groomsman and bridesmaid.
After asking them repeatedly if it was the un-
derstanding that they were to be married for
time and for eternity, and receiving an answer
in the affirmative, he then asked Hazen Kim-
ball and his wife (the latter being a sister of
the bride) if the bride's parents understood
their intentions and approved of them; and re-
ceived satisfactory answers. After the cere-
mony was over he pronounced various bless-
ings upon them. The clerk wrote the follow-
ing: "Two or three songs were sung, and Presi-
dent Young invited the company to supper,
which had been prepared. Bishop Whitney
and wife led the way, and were followed by
about half the company; the table not being
extensive enough to accomodate more. Presi-
dent Young said we could worship God in the
dance as well as in other ways, but strongly
impressed upon the minds of those present the
impropriety of mingling again with the wicked
after having come in here, and taken upon
them the covenants which they had. He spoke
pointedly to his daughter Vilate, and told her
that if she should do so after this she might
expect to meet the frown of a father.	*	*
He was followed by L. R. Foster, who concur-
red in the remarks of President Young, and
said he would like to have the question put,
that it might be known how many of those

[Column 3]

present were willing to make a covenant, etc.
Elder H. C. Kimball said, before the question
was put he wished to say a few words—He felt
thankful that President Young had touched
this subject, and also that we had this oppor-
tunity of meeting together in this manner;
said that those who were parents had become
responsible for the conduct of their children,
and for his part he should not be willing that
his children should meet with the wicked.	*
He said to his own children, that they had
covenanted here this evening that they would
receive the instructions, and listen to the coun-
sel of their father and mother, and he hoped
they would rememeber it.	*	*	*
Erastus Snow expressed his feelings in a few
words.	*	*	The President
then invited all those who were willing to cov-
enant that they would keep themselves from
mingling with the wicked to rise upon their
feet; whereupon all rose up.	*	*	*
Hans C. Hanson, a Dane, inquired if it would
be permitted for him to speak a few words,
and receiving an approving nod from the Presi-
dent, said he had been in the habit of playing
the fiddle for mixed companies among the
wicked, and that in such companies he had
seen very ungodly conduct, that on a certain
occasion he played for some who were called
Saints, but they went down to a steam boat and
got about twenty-five passengers to join them;
and, said he, they wanted to get away all
our girls—and there was very bad talk there;
when he saw the Saints enjoying themselves in
the dance as they did here, he made a coven-
ant with himself, that he would no more play
the fiddle for the wicked, but that the Saints
should have the use of his fiddle, and, that
when he went on a mission, he would leave it
with the Saints, and asked them if they would
take care of it. They answered, "Yes."
	The Spirit of God was present, and the spirit
of meekness, humility, and gratitude to God
for the great privileges we enjoy, so that tears
came into the eyes of many of those present.
Love and union, peace and harmony, pervaded.
The utmost decorum was observed; not a loud
laugh nor a rude jest saluted the ear.	*	*
	The persons present on this occasion were as
follows: President Yonng, his wife, and
daughter Vilate, and sons, Joseph and Brig-
ham, two little girls and infant; Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife Vilate, his son William
H., with wife, and his daughter, Helen Mar
Kimball; John Young and Lorenzo Young
and his wife, Persis, their son William G., the
bridegroom, Phineas H. Young and his son
Brigham H. Young, N. K. Whitney and wife,
Horace H. and Orson K. Whitney, John Whit-
ney, Amasa Lyman and his wife, Eliza M. Par-
tridge, Caroline E. Partridge, Lucy A. Seely,
Clarissa C. Decker, Joseph C. Kingsbury,
Sarah Ann Kingsbury, Helen Jeanette Murry,
Mary Houston, Sidenia O. Clark, Adelia C.
Clark, Hazen Kimball and wife, Lorenzo Snow,
Eliza R. Snow and Mary Smith."
	When the President told us at about half
past two oclock that it was time to seek repose,
the sisters retired to the side rooms, and the
brethren stretching themselves upon the floor
or on the sofas—all were soon in the embraces of
"tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep,"
with the exception of the bridegroom and bride,
and a few of their friends, who, being unable
to close their eyes in sleep from the abundance
of their joy, passed the short hours of the
morning in agreeable conversation in the
office.
	To be Continued.


Unction is the tongue of fire, and is just the
very gift which no universities, no degrees, no
amount of learning or critical attainment, no
cultivation of the science of belles-lettres or rhe-
toric or elocution can bestow.—E. Paxton Hood.


