EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE had quite an interesting interview with
Mrs. Ada H. Kepley, attorney at law and


notary public, from Effingham, Ill. She was
on her way to San Francisco with her husband,
Sir, H. S. Kepley. The lady is one who has done a
vast amount of political work in a womanly
way, and is still activly engaged in seeking to
better the condition of women under the law in
her own state as well as elsewhere, and has
good hopes of equality before the law for men
and women in the near future. She is very no-
ble in appearance and fluent in speech, is cer-
tainly a woman of strong character, and well
calculated to to advance in the profession she
has chosen. She was quite free from prejudice,
and seemed to comprehend the situation into
which the Edmund's law has thrown this
people better than most strangers who visit
us.
	"THE Myth of the Manuscript Found"—is
the title of the last of the "Faith Promoting
Series," and is a work of real merit. It is by
Elder George Reynolds, and the author has
done himself great credit in collecting such im-
portant facts and compiling them so carefully
and withal connecting them together in such
an orderly and interesting manner as to attract
and keep the attention of the reader constantly
fastened upon the subject. It is a book of incal-
culable value, and must upon its merits have a
wide circulation, both in the Church and among
those who are not Latter-day Saints.
	The Book of Mormon and the Spaulding
Story have been a theme of discussion and spec-
ulation for over forty years, and Brother Rey-
nold's book throws more light on the matter
than has ever been brought to bear directly up-
on it. There is so much in the work to admire
as well as to interest, that it would seem almost
indispensable even in the home library. One
might read it over and over again with benefit
to himself. It gives positive facts and actual
testimonies instead of queries and assertions.
Be sure and buy it. Price 25 cents. For sale at
Juvenile Instructor Office, also at J. H. Parry's
book store, next door to Hardy Bros. and Bur-
ton's on Main Street, S. L. City.
	The Conference of Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms in this city, on Friday, the 21st inst,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Secretaries
should forward their reports as early as possible
to Mrs. E. Howard, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT-
Every Society in the county should be repre-
sented either by the President or one of her
Counselors, or secretary. As it is expected some
business pertaining to the interest of the Socie-
ty will be transacted it is hoped all the members
will attend who can make it convenient. Bish-
ops and brethren of the priesthood are cordially
invited to be present.
	On Saturday morning the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake will convene in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. It is urgently desired
by the President, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson, that
there should be a good attendance of the child-
ren from the various wards in the county as
well as a good representation of officers. The
Primary fair is in progress and ought to be made
a grand success. There is nothing stimulates
the energies of the little folks more than there
FAIRS. Be sure and forward reports to Mrs.
Vilate Young, the Secreary of P. A., Salt Lake
County.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their Conference
in the afternoon of Saturday, 23nd inst., com-
mencing at 2 p.m. The President, Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, urgently requests the members as
well as the officers to be present, that they may
receive the benefit of the instructions given.
Send reports to Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron, P.
O. Box 419, S. L. City, Utah.


