CONSCIENCE: WHAT IS IT?

	Conscience has been variously defined, and
differently estimated. By some it has been des-
ignated, "The only correct rule of action"—by
others, "An innate power or faculty implanted
in our natures, independent of outward circum-
stances or surroundings." It has also been
termed "the highest authority to which one
can appeal."
	It seems to me that it would be difficult to
make more egregious mistakes. Admitting con-
science to be the test between right and wrong,
whose conscience would be the one by which
decisions should be made? People's consciences
vary nearly, if not quite as much, as the facial
outlines. What a motley variety of standards
of right and wrong! But, says one, God has
implanted the conscience in our organizations
for our guide.
	If God made the conscience why did He not
make all consciences alike? While A's con-
science justifies him in pursuing one course, B's
justifies him in pursuing an entirely opposite
one. For instance, I have been intimately ac-
quainted with a man whose conscience dictated
him to so strictly observe the Sabbathic law that
he refused to partake of food that was cooked on
Sunday; and I have been intimately acquainted
with other men whose consciences varied so
widely from that, that their housekeepers,
whether wives or servants, instead of the privi-
lege of attending meeting and partaking of the
sacrament on the Sabbath, were required to stay
at home and roast beef, make puddings, etc.,
that when those conscience men returned from
meeting they could regale their appetites with a
smoking, luscious dinner. Such probably had
been the custom of their ancestry.
	The wild, roving Indian's conscience justifies
him in stealing whenever he does it unde-
tected—the sin with him consists in not being
shrewd enough to evade discovery, but not so
with the educated one. In our everyday life
how frequently we find persons feeling fully jus-
tified in performing acts which others could not
do without self-condemnation. Why this dif-
ference, if conscience is an unerring dictator?
	Even here, with the Latter-day Saints, who
profess "one Lord, one faith, one baptism," are
all consciences alike? Far from it. We have
been differently educated, and early impressions
are not readily erased.
	God has implanted in the human organiza-
tion the germ of every faculty necessary for a
perfected glorified being; and these germs are
all developed or undeveloped according to cir-
cumstances.
	But, says one, can persons do wrong when do-
ing what conscience dictates? Yes, but at the
same time, they cannot act in opposition to
conscience and do right, for the plain reason
that they would be acting dishonestly with
themselves. Everyone, to be honest, must do
as his or her conscience dictates; but that is not
saying that the act in itself is right; this de-
pends upon the correctness of the standard by
which the germ of conscience is developed or
educated.
	There is one, and only one, perfect standard,
and that is the fulness of the Gospel, as taught
by Christ and His ancient apostles, and re.
vealed in this dispensation. The Latter-day
Saints have this perfect standard.
	The question may be asked why such a varie-
ty exists among them. The Saints have been
gathered from all countries—subject in their
training to almost every variety of circum-
stance; and habits of mind as well as those of
manners, are not readily exchanged. And al
though a perfect law, or system may require
but little time for its enunciation; facts show

[Column 2]
that more than a generation may be necessary
to mould a people by that law or system. Un-
der existing circumstances—taking into con-
sideration our imperfect education, and as Saints
of God, having possession of the Gospel; instead
of appealing to conscience as a reliable criterion,
it should be, "to the law and to the testi-
mony."
	It is presumable that, as soon as the Latter-
day Saints fully comprehend, adapt and educate
every faculty precisely in accordance with this
perfect system of faith and practice, they will
"see eye to eye" in all things, and become "one,
even as the Father and Son are on," and not
until then. E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, Aug., 1883.


