EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 2nd district of the First Ward Primary
of Logan met at the house of President Emma
Pike to surprise on her 79th birthday a poor
widow named Ostlund. There were thirty
ladies present, among them, Stake President of
R. S., Mrs. E. Benson, and Mrs. Lucy Cardon,
Sister Townsend, Sister Ivins from St. George,
Sister R. R. Grant, the mother of Apostle H.
J. Grant, Sister Jane E. Molen, Primary Stake
President, Sister Stewart, Sister Henstrom and
a number of others. The teachers were sent
for the old lady, and as soon as she was seated
the door was thrown open and 50 primary
children sang with spirit "Open the door for
the Children." Prayer by Sister Molen. Sing-
ing "In our Lovely Deseret." An address was
then read by E. L. Crowther, after which all
the children shook hands with the old lady and
nearly all presented her with some little gift.
Sister Molen aud Sister Lucy Cardon ad-
dressed the meeting in a pleasing and interest-
ing manner. A song by Misses Lowe and L.
Lieshman; Reading by Sister Pike; Song,
"Sadie Ray," by the Misses Thompsons. Sis-
ter Henstrom spoke for a few moments on de-
portment, etc. A recitation by Minnie Ful-
mer; Select reading by E. L. Crowther, "The
Model Church."
	Sister Grant spoke in a very interesting way
to the children; exhorted parents to take time
to instruct them, sing, pray and read with
them. "Desire that old Sister Ostlund may
live as long as life is desirable to her, and then
pass through the gates of death without suffer-
ing, and on to her exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom."
	Song by Bertha Jones. Sister Ivins spoke
on purity and its beauty, and counselled the
children to read and educate themselves for the
great future; spoke a few cheering words to
the old ladies.
	Song, "Under the Snow," by Dagman Frank
and Miss Wilson.
	Sister Townsend spoke of the beauty of
truth; said if all mothers were as faithful and
noble as Sister Grant there would be more no-
ble sons. Exhorted mothers to pray with their
children daily, and to win their confidence;
teach them to keep the Sabbath day.
	William Pike recited the Lord's Prayer, all
the children joining in concert. Sister Stewart
spoke a few pleasant words. Song by Jennie
Bench. Sister Benson gave a few words of ad-
vice and comfort to all, especially to the aged.
Sister Pike addressed the assembly in a few
appropriate words, then closed with singing.
Dismissed by Sister Fjelsted, after which all
partook of refreshments. All felt it had been
a good, cheerful meeting.
	Our Primary was organized in June, 1883,
with the following officers: Emma Pike, Presi-
dent; E. L. Crowther and J. Lee, Counselors;
James Stewart, Secretary; Jenny Bench, As-
sistant Secretary; Katie Hansen, Treasurer.


