RELIGION AND SCIENCE.

	The more we reflect on the uniformity of
these two subjects the more we will be sur-
prised that some people should think there
was so vast a gulf between them.
	Probably this opinion is partly due to the
teachings of some of the Christian Churches;
that God made this world out of nothing; this
they know is at variance with natural law,
and probably judging the remainder of the
Christian religion by that and a belief in a
God without body, parts or passions, they see
the absurdity and lapse into infidelity. The
Latter-day Saints could not do this! With
a correct idea of the Supreme Being,
and a knowledge of His laws, religion and
science cease to differ. Religion is only a term
applied to those laws and commandments, bap-

[Column 2]

tism, confirmation, etc., that immediately con-
cern our salvation; while the term science is
applied to the works of the same being, but to
understand which is not cousidered essential
to salvation.
	God has upon several occasions spoken to
men about his works. To Job He said, "Where
wast thou when I laid the foundation of the
earth? declare if thou hast understanding.
Who hast laid the measures thereof, if thou
knowest? or who hast stretched the line upon
it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof
fastened? or who laid the corner stones there-
of?"
	He gave Abraham the Urim and Thummim,
and among other things told him that the star
nearest to his throne was called Kolob, and
governed all those that belong to the same or-
der as this earth, and that one revolution was a
day unto the Lord, it being one thousand of
our years.
	"Then I, Abraham, talked with the Lord
face to face as one man talketh to another, and
He told me of the works which his hands had
made."
	He also instructed Moses, and Moses "cast
his eyes and beheld the earth, even all the face
of it, there was not a particle of which he did
not behold, descrying it by the Spirit of God.
And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof,
and there was not a soul which he beheld not,
and he discerned them by the Spirit of God;
and their numbers were great, even number-
less as the sands upon the sea shore. And he
beheld many lands; and each land was called
earth, and there were inhabitants on the face
thereof."
	God also told him that he had created worlds
without number and that "the heavens they
are many, and they cannot be numbered unto
man, but they are numbered unto me, for they
are mine, and as one earth shall pass away,
and the heavens thereof, even so shall another
come; and there is no end to my works."
	The New Testament informs us that Paul
was caught up into the third heaven. Joseph
Smith was also shown many great things, and
much was revealed unto him. From different
writings we learn that God has communicated
and shown a great deal to man, and that al-
though it is revelation it is not all of a strict-
ly religious nature, and is not essential to eter-
nal salvation as we generally accept the term.
It is certainly an easy way of gaining knowl-
edge, everything shown is perfectly under-
stood, there is no conjecture or uncertainty
about it.
	From the foregoing and our surroundings
we see that science and religion do not con-
flict, that God is the Author of both, and that
it makes no difference whether a given fact is
discovered by innate intelligence or communi-
cated by revelation, it is the same unalterable
truth, and came from the same source, for if
God had not given the intelligence man could
not have found it out.	ANN FELLOWS.


