AUTO-BIOGRAPHY.

	I am the daughter of Oliver Granger, and
Lydia Dibble Granger, was born Dec. 29, 1818,
in the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., New York.
Of my father and mother's eight children only
myself and two younger brothers, (Lafayette
and Farley) remain. My father, Oliver Gran-
ger, had an interesting experience in connection
with the coming forth of the Book of Mormon.
He obtained the book a few months after its pub-
lication, and while in the city of New York at
Prof. Mott's eye infirmary, he had a "heavenly
vision." My father was told by a personage who
said his name was Moroni that the Book of Mor-
mon, about which his mind was exercised, was
a true record of great worth, and Moroni in-
structed him (my father) to testify of its truth
and that he should hereafter be ordained to
preach the everlasting Gospel to the children of
men. Moroni instructed my father to kneel and
pray; Moroni and another personage knelt with
him by the bedside. Moroni repeated words
and instructed my father to repeat after him.
Moroni then stepped behind my father, who
was still kneeling, and drew his finger over the
three back seams of my father's coat (which
my father felt very preceptiably) and said, "A
time will come when the Saints will wear gar-
ments made without seam."
	Moroni told him (my father) that he might
ask for what he most desired and it would be
granted. He asked for an evidence by which
he might know when he was approved of God.
The evidence, or sign, was given and remained
with him until his dying hour, being more
particularly manifest when engaged in prayer
and meditation. I love the memory of my father.
He died in Kirtland, Ohio, August, 1843, aged 47.
	I was married in Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, by Warren Cowdery Esq., September
22nd, 1840, to Hiram Kimball, eldest son of
Phineas and Abigail Kimball, of West Fairley,
Orange Co., Vermont. My parents had pre-

[Column 2]

viously spent a year in Nauvoo, Hancock Co.,
Illinois; their present stay in Ohio was consid-
ered only temporary (my father sickened and
died there the next year). I returned with
my husband to his home in Nauvoo, Ill.,
three weeks after my marriage. We boarded
six months in the family of Dr. Frederic Wil-
liams, then went to housekeeping. My eldest
son was born in Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill.,
November 22nd, 1841; when the babe was
three days old a little incident occurred which
I will mention. The walls of the Nauvoo Temple
were about three feet above the foundation. The
Church was in need of help to assist in raising
the Temple walls. I belonged to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; my husband
did not belong to the Church at that time. I
wished to help on the Temple, but did not like
to ask my husband (who owned considerable
property) to help for my sake.
	My husband came to my bedside, and as he
was admiring our three days old darling I
said, "What is the boy worth?" He replied, "O
I don't know, he is worth a great deal." I said,
"Is he worth a thousand dollars?" The reply
was "Yes, more than that if he lives and does
well." I said, "Half of him is mine, is it not?"
"Yes, I suppose so." "Then I have something
to help on the Temple." (pleasantly) "You
have?" "Yes, and I think of turning my share
right in as tithing." "Well, I'll think about that."
	Soon after the above conversation Mr. Kim-
ball met the Prophet of Joseph Smith, President
of the Church, and said, "Sarah has got a
little the advantage of me this time, she pro-
poses to turn out the boy as church property."
President Smith seemed pleased with the joke,
and said, "I accept all such donations, and
from this day the boy shall stand recorded,
church property," then turning to Willard
Richards, his secretary, he said, "Make a rec-
ord of this; and you are my witness." Joseph
Smith then said, "Major, (Mr. Kimball was
major in the Nauvoo Legion) you now have
the privilege of paying $500 and retaining
possession, or receiving $500 and giving pos-
session." Mr. Kimball asked if city property
was good currency. President Smith replied
that it was. Then said Mr. Kimball, "How
will the reserve block north of the Temple
suit?" President Smith replied, "It is just what
we want." The deed was soon made out and
transfered in due form.
	President Smith said to me, "You have con-
secrated your first born son, for this you are
blessed of the Lord. I bless you in the name
of the Lord God of Abraham of Isaac and
of Jacob. And I seal upon you all the bless-
ings that pertain to the faithful. Your name
shall be handed down in honorable remem-
brance from generation to generation.
	"Your son shall live and be a blessing to
you in time and an honor and glory to you
throughout the endless eternities (changes) to
come. He shall be girded about with right-
eousness and bear the helmet and the breast-
plate of war. You shall be a blessing to your
companion and the honored mother of a noble
posterity. You shall stand as a savior to your
father's house, and receive an everlasting sal-
vation, which I seal upon you by the gift of
revelation and by virtue and authority of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, in the name of
Jesus Christ."
	Early in the year 1842 Joseph Smith taught
me the principle of marriage for eternity, and
the doctrine of plural marriage. He said that in
teaching this he realized that he jeopardized
his life; but God had revealed it to him many
years before as a privilege with blessing, now
God had revealed it again and instructed him
to teach it with commandment, as the church
could travel (progress) no farther without the
introduction of this principle. I asked him to
teach it to some one else. He looked at me
reprovingly, and said, "Will you tell me who

[Column 3]

to teach it to? God requires me to teach it to
you, and leave you with the reponsibility of
believing or disbelieving. He said, "I will not
cease to pray for you, and if you will seek un-
to God in prayer you will not be led into
temptation."
	In the summer of 1843, a maiden lady (Miss
Cooke) was seamstress for me and the subject
of combining our efforts for assisting the Tem-
ple hands came up in conversation. She de-
sired to be helpful, but had no means to fur-
nish. I told her I would furnish material if
she would make some shirts for the workmen.
It was then snggested that some of our neigh-
bors might wish to combine means and efforts
with ours, and we decided to invite a few to
come and consult with us on the subject of
forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring
sisters met in my parlor and decided to organ-
ize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R.
Snow and ask her to write for us a Constitution
and By-laws, and submit them to President
Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's
meeting. She cheerfully responded and when
she read them to him he replied that the Con-
stitution and By-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what
you want. Tell the sisters their offering is ac-
cepted of the Lord, and he has something
better for them than a written Constitution.
I invite them all to meet with me and a few of
the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my
store next Thursday afternoon, and I will or-
ganize the women under the priesthood after
the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organ-
ized until the women were thus organized."
He wished to have Sister Emma Smith elected
to preside in fulfillment of the revelation which
called her an Elect Lady.
	In the wanderings and persecutions of the
Church I have participated, and in the blessings,
endowments, and holy anointings and precious
promises that I have received. To sorrow I
have not been a stranger; but I only write this
short sketch to instruct and happify, so I will
skip to Salt Lake City, September, 1851, with
my two sons, Hiram and Oliver, my widowed
mother, Lydia Dibble Granger, Anna Rob-
bins, a girl that lived with me nine years
and married my youngest brother, and my
two brothers, Lafayette and Farley B. Gran-
ger. My husband was detained in New York
City, aud had become financially much embar-
rassed. The next year he came to me finan-
cially ruined and broken in health.
	I engaged in school teaching in the 14th
Ward to sustain and educate my family. My
salary was only $25.00 per month, but that
was much to us at that time.
	April 1st, 1854, my youngest son was born.
I discontinued school three months, then opened
school in my home. I taught eight years.
	I should have remarked that on arriving
here I sold our fit out (team, etc.) for a com-
fortable little home; this I have always con-
sidered providential. The Indian agent gave
me a nine years old wild Indian girl, whom I
educated and raised. She died at nineteen.
I named her Kate.
	My mother, who had lived with me 20
years, died in 1861, aged 73.
	My husband was drowned March 1st, 1863,
in the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of San Pedro, on
his way to the Sandwich Islands; aged 62.
	I was elected President of the 17th Ward
Relief Society, February 7th, 1857.
	In December, 1865, a little girl was brought
to me whom I adopted.
	November 13, 1868, a silver trowel and mallet
were furnished me and, assisted by a master
mason and surrounded by an assemblage of peo-
ple, I had the honor of laying the corner stone
of the first Relief Society uilding erected in this
dispensation.	SARAH M. KIMBALL.


