A CHANGE INDEED.

	What a change has come to this once quiet,
peaceful and orderly city. The citizens were
free and safe to walk the streets by day or by
night without fear or molestation or even an-
noyance. There were no saloons, no gambling
dens, no houses of infamy. All these have
come through the influences of the new civila-
tion, some of those who are so anxious to solve
the "Mormon Problem" have introduced into
our midst. They have succeeded in throwing
temptation to sin aud evil allurements in the
path of the unwary, and making slippery places
that they might fall. The Scripture says, "Woe
to the workers of iniquity," and woe to him
that rejoices in iniquity! Therefore let them
take heed that exalt in the downfall of any,
and more especially those that have said, "Let
us look upon Zion that she may be defiled." If
they have not actually used this quotation from
Holy Writ their words have been so similar
that it could not be mistaken for the fulfilment
of the prophecy of the ancient prophet of God,
who, looking down the long period of time to
the present, foresaw what would actually trans-
pire in the last days.
	A wicked and soul destroying influence has
taken firm hold of some of the individuals that
make up the population of our beautiful city,
and the power of evil has developed in a discord-
ant element, and so far transgressed the laws of
society and humanity as to stoop to a species of
barbarianism, as evinced in the terrible death of
Bishop Burt, and the summary vengence
wreaked upon the poor, miserable, cowardly as-
sassin. It is enough to make those who knew
this city as it once was in its quiet beauty and
peacefulness exclaim, "How has all this change
been wrought, and what does it portend?" We
who came here for the purpose of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences, and fully anticipated the establishment
of a glorious Zion, can scaacely help a sort of
righteous indignation of things as they exist at
the present time. The Saints, were they per-
mitted to bear undisputed rule, would have
order in their ranks. There would not be the
slightest indication of this spirit of turbulence
and insubordination were "the people" the orig-
inal landowners to have complete control. As
the matter stands they are for the time being
compelled to submit to the confusion conse-
quent upon the disregard of law and authority,
because forsooth, "The powers that be" have
for the time being obtained such headway that
an exceedingly wise and straight forward course
must be pursued to overcome the reckless dar-
ing of unprincipled persons, who have no re-
gard for law, order, nor restraint of unholy and
wicked impulses.
	Such indeed are dangerous elements in a com-

[Column 2]
munity, whether they are men or women. The
time was when one could walk the street at any
hour of the night alone, without the least pro-
tection, save a conscience void of offence, and
would be as safe as in the shelter of home.
People seldom thought of locks or bolts upon
their doors, and could enjoy the free air af hea-
ven without so much of the fumes of tobacco or
whiskey. The name of God was not profaned
upon the streets, and no little boys or loafers
loitered around the street corners, making the
atmosphere vile with their foul language and
smoke.
	How beautiful, how serene and restful was
this city of the Saints, but now, O, how
changed!
	Why should there be such resistance to au-
thority? Simply because the local offices are in
the hands of the original people, "the
old settlers." A few men and women
have come into our midst and set up a cry
against the power of the "Mormon" Church,
that under the rule of "Mormons" men are not
free and independent beings; as though the civil
and municipal authorities were not just as faith-
ful administrators of the laws of the Territory
and city, and under the jurisdiction of the courts,
as if they were not members of that religious
body. This spirit of defiance has sprung up
and been nourished by a class of men anxious
to assume control of the affairs of the Territory,
its counties and cities, and even the consciences
of a people who made the country habitable for
them. They intend to get possession of every
place and position that affords any revenue, and
rule with a rod of iron. Talk of freedom, what
freedom would they give to the bone and sinew
of the country, the farmers, the mechanic; how
do they boast in public and in private. Talk of
protection, such protection as the wolf gives the
lamb. Have we eyes to see, ears to hear, hearts
to understand? then we know just what to ex-
pect from those boasters about freedom and in-
dependence and individuality.
	Take away from Salt Lake City the saloons
and such resorts as a certain class of people
claim to be an actual necessity, and they could
not live here, unless indeed they had enough
wealth to have a wine cellar of their own like
the old knights and barons of feudal times. Then
we might look for the peace and quietude once
enjoyed here by those who had come far and en-
dured so much privation for the sake of a resting
place even in the wilderness.
	Perhaps the dreadful occurrences of last week
may be a lesson to those who encourage a bru-
tal element instead of obedience to law. Gov-
ernments must exist, and the people must sub-
mit to be governed. Everybody is free to do
right under the law of the land, and if they do
wrong they must abide by the consequences of
that wrong, especially if it is an infringement
upon others. Generally those who make so
much ado a[-]out freedom are the class who tread
on the ri[---] of others, who want no law but
their owu lawlessness, and who have no regard
for law, human or divine. It is sincerely to be
hoped that the authorities of this city will in-
crease the police force, and that some of the nui-
sances upon our streets may soon be abated.
Who are these loafers who congregate upon the
corners of the streets and around the entrances
of the saloons? Idle, depraved and vile? Are
they members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints? No, indeed, if they ever
were they have lost the faith. No man living
in the line of his duty would be seen in such a
place. The principles of this Church teach so-
berness, industry, diligence in good works, de-
corum and all that will elevate and purify the
life and character of men and women. The out-
side element in this community know this is

[Column 3]
true, but it does not suit their purpose to say so.
They represent this people as opposed to good
government, and especially to the control of the
Federal officers of the United States. Nothing
could be more unjust. This people have sub-
mitted to indignities heaped upon them on ac-
count of misrepresentations of this nature, hop-
ing and looking forward for a time when the
results of their integrity would be apparent,
when, after long waiting, the truth would at
last dawn upon the officers of this great Re-
public that "Mormons" were good citizens; law-
abiding, and ready to sustain and maintain the
principles incuicated in the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence.
	The few men and women who are so active-
ly engaged in misrepresenting the "Mormon"
people to the government, and by the means
of the pulpit and the press, will not succeed in
their base and wicked schemes, however shrewd
and far-seeing they may be. Mormonism or its
principles and people will outlive all such ene-
mies, and triumph over them. It is not an in-
vention of man, but the work of God begun on
the earth. "Mormon" men and women are not
working for individual advancement and ag-
grandizement, they are working in a higher
cause and for a more laudable interest than
actuates those who are living only for this
world and its vain ambitions.
	Those who think that Mormonism can be
overthrown by introducing the allurements,
vanities and temptations of the world will find
themselves terribly mistaken. A few may be
influenced who are weak minded, but no one
sound in principle, and living in the light of
the Gospel will be thus led astray. But woe be
to those who seek to bring disgrace and evil up-
on the Saints.
	To those who spread snares for the weak and
unsuspecting, and seek to decoy from the paths
of virtue and rectitude the young and the igno-
rant, no blessing can follow such a course. The
spirit of peace is that which should be sought,
and not to stir up strife and discord, either in
public or private. It is better to suffer wrong
than to do wrong; and how essential it is to con-
trol the temper and the tongue; and more than
this even to control the appetite. How much
misery and suffering is produced by the use of
alcohol. No tongue can tell the tale. It is im-
possible. And to think that this once fair and
happy city should be cursed with dram shops
and places of imfamy seems almost incredible
to one acquainted with the place from the be-
ginning, and with the record of the people and
the contempt in which they hold all such vile
and wicked practices. One cannot wonder that
the noble women of the Temperance Union on
their bended knees and with tears streaming
from their eyes entreated the saloon keepers to
close their doors that their husbands, brothers
and sons might be saved from the demon strong
drink. And may the time hasten on when
popular opinion may be so much against these
nefarious practices, these houses that lead down
to perdition, that the cities and towns of our
glorious land may be freed from the pollution
that springs from these prolific sources of evil,
that are at the present time devastating human
life and happiness more rapidly than anything
else. And here in Zion whose gates should be
closed against all impure and unholy influences,
the Saints should set their faces as flint against
all tendencies to the growth of evil, that she
might indeed be desirable and fair to look upon,
and the wonder and admiration of the world.


