"THEY SAY."

"They say," oh, well, suppose they do,
	But can they prove the story true?
Suspicion may arise from naught
	But malice, envy, evil thought;
Why count yourself among the "they"
	Who whisper what they dare not say?

"They say"—but why the tale rehearse
	And help to make the matter worse?
No good can possibly accrue
	By telling what may be untrue;
And is it not a nobler plan
	To speak of all the good you can?

	"Oh, how I hate the slanderer," is the uni-
versal cry. Everybody deprecates such a thing
as a slanderous tongue so that nobody will ever
acknowledge its possession, and every body
claims that they would not say any thing to in-
jure another for the world, it is entirely against
their principles, in fact it is awful to speak
evil of our neighbors, and no one has the least
desire to do it. Yet it has never been my
pleasure to meet the person who has not at
some time been the sorrowful victim of slan-
der, injustice and misrepresentation. If you,
dear reader, are acquainted with such a person
please honor me with an introduction and res-
cue me from the settled conviction that such a
one does not exist. Volumes have been writ-
ten about slander, but who ever saw anything
in its praise? It never appeared to meet with
the least appreciation from the pulpit, the press,
nor, it is claimed, the fireside, still it lives and
thrives and fattens, and the mystery is, who
feeds the serpent with its forked and poisonous
tongue, whose appetite is ravenous for the fail-
ings, mistakes and misfortunes of humanity,
seasoned and spiced with the condiments of
jealousy, envy, malice and thoughtlessness,
without these it could not exist an hour, and
all can testify that it has never been starved
to death. Now, who prepares the dainty,
nutritious dishes for slander's greedy palate?
Is it you and I? My conscience is clear, of
course; but why do you blush and look so con-
fused? Oh, you blush to think of that bit of
scandal you repeated at Jenny Smith's the
other day, of course you did not originate it,
"they say" set the story afloat so you thought
it no harm to tell a few of your friends and
hear what they had to say about it, and think-
ing that some parts of the tale seemed slightly
deficient and tame, you colored it with a few
suggestions aud opinions of your own, also
with what knowledge you had of the affair,
which by the way, your imaginative friends
will all ingraft in the story when they repeat
it, each one in turn filling in vacancies with
their own ideas and constructions, till, ere
long, the victim of all this talk is painted
jet black, but every artist will proudly disdain
his share of the painting. Talking on this
subject brings to mind a time when I felt to
blame myself for helping to feed that monster.
Once I positively knew something "real mean"
about an anquiantance, but I felt so generous
and charitable that I would not unvail the
fault to others for any price, till one day, in
an evil hour, I heard that this very person
had been speaking of some of my failings—
this I felt to be very unjust for I hadn't any
worth mentioning I knew—so just to prove
that he had no room to talk about other peo-
ple, I told what I knew, and felt that I was
entitled to a great deal of praise for telling
nothing but the plain truth. I've since tried
to quiet my guilty conscience with the thought
that "Truth is not Slander;" but when I reflect
upon the motive I feel that silence would have
been more noble than even truth; so I carry a-
round a secret contempt for my own weakness.
It don't seem possible that I could be among the
class who would love and make a lie, but I
know that I have "taken up a reproach against
my neighbor," and would be glad to prove

[Column 2]
that I alone was guilty of such an offense.
Since we are all brothers and sisters and child-
ren of the same wise and loving Father, why
can't we realize that the disgrace of our great
human family is no credit to us personally?

"How can it pleasure human kind
To prove humanity but base?"

