RIDICULE.

	Ridicule is a weapon that is often used with
success, when everything else fails, in defeating
the plans and purposes of people whose views
are different from those of the majority. Many
who are brave in other respects, and really
have a desire to do right, will give way and


go as others go, do as others do, often against
their own feelings and judgment, simply be-
cause they cannot stand to be ridiculed and
laughed at.
	They will stand persuasion, or even threats,
firmly; but let their friends, especially those
most loved, laugh and sneer at them, and they
will give way directly, as it produces a feeling
that nothing else does, and in persons who are
very sensitive it causes them a great deal of
suffering.
	It has always been the case, and I suppose
always will be as long as we are in this mortal
state, that some people are disposed to sneer
and make all manner of sarcastic remarks to
or about those, who, as they term it, are "too
religious," or are trying to do right. I would
ask, what is true religion? It is simply doing
right. But you say there are different ideas
of right and wrong; what you think is right
another may think wrong. True religion
teaches us to treat others as we would like to
be treated. To be upright and honest in all
that we say and do. Act on the square in all
things. Treat every one with respect. Good,
moral people who value a good character, but
do not claim any religion observe these princi-
ples, then how much more should we who have
had the privilege of being born and raised in
the Church of Christ, born heirs to the bles-
sings of the everlasting covenant, observe
these laws. We do not appreciate the privi-
leges we have. We do not possess the Spirit
of God when we do not try to live these princi-
ples, and scoff at those who do try. It is very
mean of a person to make no effort himself to
perform any duty, but will sneer at those who
do. Girls, let us try to perform our duties.
Be brave and strong in the cause of right;
have backbone enough to face all that is said
against us, or our religion. Strive to under-
stand its principles; the more you learn of it
the better it is. It is worth everything to us.
							MATTIE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


