EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Re-
lief Society of the Auckland Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
we forward the enclosed report with a request
that you will favor us with a publication of
the same in your valuable paper.
	A special meeting was called by the presi-
dent of the society and an invitation extended
to all the adult brethren and sisters of the
Auckland Branch. The meeting convened at
the residence of Sister Miles, on the evening of
July 3rd, ult. After singing and prayer, and
stating the object of the meeting, the president
of the society invited President William M.
Bromley to take the chair. A neat bound
volume of "Spencer's Letters" was presented
to Father Rogers in behalf of the society, ac-
companied with an address, read by President
Bromley, in which was set forth an expression
of the good feelings of the society, and their
appreciation of the many acts of kindness and
hospitality extended by him to the "mission-
aries," also to our beloved President Sister
Sarah Williams and family, during the absence
of her husband from his home, much of which


occurred even before he was a member of the
Church. Father Rogers responded in a very
affecting though brief speech. Hymns, songs,
speeches and other pleasing exercises were en-
gaged in. One noticeable feature was the uni-
versal regret expressed that we were soon to
say adieu to Elder William M. Bromley, who
is released, and will return home by the next
mail steamer, and the hearty God bless Bro.
Bromley was expressive of the love and confi-
dence he has won in the hearts of the people,
with whom he associated, and so ably presided
over during the past 2 1/2 years.
	The fruit and refreshment department was
presided over by Sisters Cox and Nelson; a 
plentiful supply thereof had been prepared
and all partook with thankful hearts; truly a
time of love and union was enjoyed, which
long will be remembered by those who partici-
pated therein.
	On the following Thursday the children to
the number of 28 were entertained at the res-
dence of Brother Cox, at which time nearly
all took part in the exercises, in songs, recita-
tions, readings, etc., and Sisters Cox and Nel-
son distributed fruit, lollies, refreshments, to
all, and it was pleasing to note the expressions
of joy and gladness as depicted in the actions
and upon the countenances of all present.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPON-
ENT in its noble work, we subscribe ourselves
your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	SARAH WILLIAMS, President,
	HANNAH COX, Secretary.
Auckland, New Zealand, July 15th, 1883.

