[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Don't Let the Baby Forget Me L. Lula Greene Richards]

Don't Let the Baby Forget Me By L. Lula Greene Richards Don't let the baby forget me When I shall be far away— Show her my photograph often, Tell her about me each day. Others will note my long absence Sometimes almost with regret— Think then of what I am saying, Don't let the baby forget. Chorus: Show her my photograph often Tell her of me every day, Don't let the baby forget me, When I am far, far away! Friends will enquire about me, Neighbors will ask how I fare, Home love I know will be loyal Naming me daily in prayer. Storm clouds may gather and darken, Harships my way may beset— Pray that my faith may not waver, Don't let the baby forget! Chorus: Show her my photograph often, etc. Joy in the blessed home coming After the mission is done— Fore-taste of beautiful heaven With life's great victory won. Duty has called, I am going, Owing my Savior a debt. Let us thank God and be faithful— Don't let the baby forget! Chorus: Show her my photograph often, Tell her of me every day, Don't let the baby forget me When I am far, far away! ck ( Continued) "Oh, don't §0 down there |" She plea d Piteously. "They'lj Kill you They' all drun d won't | ten to reason alk to them fro the window—op, €ar that! What they'ye done!" Wall Iter ¢ i) Stealthily to the front Toom just in time tg hear the land] d—g Striker Mself, but one who evidently had amaging his Property, Ome of the more timid € scene Ot to € others SPirits fled from be recognized, and after some argument, Shuffleq sulkily away, "Thank: ba breathe 'his mother, "Oh, um away rom that Church; I'm afraid Some day." Mot a i me of Jesus Christ," he as he Prepared to Tesume his rest. He next Morning Walter feared somewhat to the off; @ Berean Were gath to walk th 8Toups of Men and women € happ ngs of th night, and b" and "Brigham" t him Passed by, ers d eatening Sestures, anq S¢veral times Walter', €art was his Mouth as a resu] ] Teached th Office Was immediately intro. Duced toa « erton" €Ctive from ew i eters, Iter Was instructed t warned that un I ork City, Mr, © take dictation from Peters, and €r no circumsta wa atter's affairs, " € to reveal] any of the » that was Some scrap We were in last night!" Offered Peters a few Minutes later, ag he sloucheq int room, © a chair in Walter's €d up in SUrprise, « €T€ you in it>" Should 5 I! See that Scar et grazed me," € queried. On my Cheek? How did —that's she Shriekeq tering Slass in I ITectio Stayed a hom Ssile came through the front window, shat. D smashin 2 Pictur from the come to the front door and berate the mob for