[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) The literary lessons for the ensuing year will be a continuation of the lessons of the past year. They will differ in one particular. The lessons of the past year have been devoted entirely to a discussion of hymns written by Latter-day Saints. The work of the coming. Year will include a number of such hymns as: "I know that my Redeemer lives," and other well known hymns in the Christian world. As would naturally be expected Latter-day Saint hymnology is comparatively rich in hymns devoted to the life, work, and memory of the martyred prophet Joseph Smith. The most notable of this group are "The Seer," by John Taylor; "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," by W. W. Phelps, and "Joseph Smith's first prayer,' by George Manwaring. In the hymn, "The Seer," the author hjas become a veritable mouthpiece of the Latter-day Saints embodying the devotion, the love and admiration of the people for their prophet leader. In a certain sense he might be regarded as a poet laureate of his people, for his thoughts and feelings as directed to the prophet have in the past found echo and are still echoing and re-echoing in the souls of a multitude of people. The first stanza is devoted to Joseph Hhinaodll it tells us that his equal cannot be found among men; that he has soared to the realms of day; that he was the chosen 'of God, and the friend of man, who brought the Priesthood back again. 
 The second stanza, while it carries in every word and in every line the spirit of admiration and devotion for the prophet Joseph, is, in the main, devoted to his mission; he came to bless the sons of earth with keys by the Almighty; and, to further employ the words of the hymn, he opened the full rich stores of heaven, "O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night." The third stanza, like the first and the second, is impregnated with love and devotion for the prophet, now no longer among them, but the real emphasis of the stanza is placed upon his love for the Saints, "His only pride!" "For them he lived for them he died, Their joys were his, their sorrows too, He loved the Saints he loved Nauvoo." The fourth and last stanza is devoted to the thought that he, the prophet, is free, beyond the reach of mobs and strife, where "He waits with. The just who have gone before, To welcome the Saints to Zion's shore." Whatever else may be praiseworthy in this hymn, no other interest exceeds the interest aroused by the emotional quality of the hymn. The third stanza is the most noteworthy in the hymn from the standpoint of style, such lines as "He opened the full rich stores of heaven, O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night, Like the sun he spreads his golden light." mark a decided heightening of style reaching into the realms of poetry. "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," is a thrilling hymn; like "The Seer," it contains many words and lines of admiration and love directed to the prophet; like "The Seer," it exults in the fact that he is beyond the power of his enemies, and that he has gone to that realm where, "Great is his glory and endless his Priesthood," and where, "Ever and ever the keys he will hold;" and where, "Faithful and true he will enter his kingdom crowned in. The midst of the Prophets of old." ' "Joseph Smith's first prayer," written by George Manwaring, is a picture of that eventful morn, in the spring of 1820, when the Father and the Son appeared to the boy Prophet in the woods. The first stanza gives us the setting, a picture of the morn with nature at the height of its beauty, and in the midst of all GUIDE LESSONS., 667 this earthly loveliness kneels the boy prophet, who, lacking wisdom, is asking God for light. The second stanza tells us that as he knelt he was assailed by the powers of darkness, but his spirit was undaunted and he trusted in his heavenly Father's care. The third stanza makes record of the light descending brighter than the noon day sun, in which appeared two glorious beings, "God the Father and the Son." The fourth tells the story of the answer to the prayer, when the Father turning to the son said, "Joseph this is my beloved, hear him!" then come the lines that tell of the exaltation of the spirit of the youth, whose prayer has been answered: "Oh what rapture filled his bosom For he saw the living God." "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet," does not refer to the Prophet Joseph Smith, specifically, it is a tribute to all who have led and still lead Israel, consequently we have included it in this lesson. It is one of the best known of our Latter-day Saint hymns, and must always give a particular thrill to a genuine Latter-day Saint. It was written by a young man born the same year that the Church was organized, in Sheffield, England. He was a workman in one of the famous cutlery manufacturing houses of his native city. After writing the hymn, he darried it to meeting, where it was sung by the people of the Sheffield branch. President Joseph F. Smith was present on the oceasion, and recalled distinctly the first time that this hymn, that has so often voiced the gratitude of the people for a prophet-leader, was sung. This stanza is written in simple unadorned English. Its emotional content is that which gives it literary merit. The spirit of gratitude which should be the predominating emotion of all prayers, saturates every word and every line, making it one of the most acceptable song-prayers in the hymnology of the Latterday Saints. "When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us, And threaten our peace to destroy: There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliverance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor his goodness,— We've proved him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion, Will surely be smitten at last." 
 The value of the second stanza is not in its emotional content, but rather in the great spiritual thought that it embodies. It is a message of trust and confidence. It tells us that thing, which has so often been proved by those who live the spiritual life, that they who truly rely on the Lord have no need to fear. It is the same thought that is found in that great hymn, sung by all Christians, "How firm a foundation," the fourth stanza of which reads: "When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow, For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless, And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress." The third and last stanza reads: "We'll sing of his goodness and mercy, We'll praise-him by day and by night, Rejoice in his glorious gospel, And bask in its life-giving light: Thus on to eternal perfection, The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message, Shall never such happiness know." The first four lines of this last stanza is a song of praise to the Lord for his goodness and mercy; the second four contemplate the graat culmination of it all. The goal is perfection. "Thus on to eternal perfection," an expression which may be interpreted as meaning, thus on to eternal progression, the honest and faithful will go, while those who reject the gospel message can never attain to this perfection. This hymn is not a literary gem in any sense; there are no lines that are of the essence of poetry, nevertheless it is one of the most popular hymns of Latter-day Saints, and justly so. It is just because it has probed the heart, appreciating something of the debt of gratitude that surges through the souls of men and women as the realization grips them, that they indeed have a mouthpiece of God on earth. It is just because it is one of the great song prayers of Latter-day Saint hymnology; it is just because it contains a tremendous spiritual truth, which, coupled with a reverent emotion, justification enough for a song or sermon, QUESTIONS 1. Who wrote the words and music of "The Seer." (This means the music most commonly sung.) Have the words read to the class. 2. Who wrote the words and music to "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah?" Have the words read to the class, 3. Who wrote the words and music to "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Have the words read to the class. 4, Indicate particular words and sentences expressive of love and admiration for Joseph the prophet found in "The Seer." 5. Indicate words and sentences expressive of admiration and love for Joseph the Seer found in "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 6. Compile from both hymns the sentences that speak of his present state and exaltation. 7. Who wrote the words of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet?" Who wrote the music which the Latter-day Saints usually sing it to? 8. State three reasons why you personally are grateful for a prophet to lead us in these latter days. 0. Do the prayers of those who surround the family altar usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? Do the prayers offered in public assembly usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? 10. What is the "eternal perfection" the Latter-day Saint
feels he may attain through the help of God?