[Vol25 | March 1938 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field
ARGENTINE MISSION ART EXHIBIT
Argentine Mission "THE above picture shows a group of Relief Society workers in the midst of their beautiful art exhibit. Sister Cecile S. Young, the Relief Society President of the Argentine Mission, writes in a most interesting manner of the progress made during the past year. The lessons have been greatly enjoyed and while the number of Relief Society members is not so great, the lessons are passed on to investigators and are sent to the members who are located where they cannot attend the meetings. It is necessary for the lessons to be translated into Spanish and German. To quote from Sister Young, "One of our most interesting meetings was in a new district with new members. The German sisters of the oldest branch go to the new district in the city and help the sisters in the programs and lessons.
This seems to give them real joy. The programs are interesting in all of the branches. In the Pueyrredon Branch the work is carried out in the German language, and they all love to sing 'We Love Our Work,' while in all the other branches the work is in Spanish. We had 'The Other Wise Man' told to most of the organizations. A great deal of interest has been aroused and much promise for the new year is felt." Tongan Mission ROM another distant mission comes a beautiful message. Sister Evelyn H. Dunn, President of the Tongan Mission Relief Society, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 199 MYRTLE BOHI AND DAUGHTERS speaks in a very interesting manner of the work of the sisters in the Tongan Mission. She feels that the activities during the past year have been very extensive and the Relief Societies in the mission'are in an excellent condition. The sisters are humble and most sincere in trying to do everything that is asked of them. A very beautiful spirit that finds expression in labor is the service which the native sisters give to the missionaries, To quote from Sister Dunn, "We have started a movement to encourage the Saints to beautify their homes by planting flowers. At the last conference here in the Togatabu district we had a flower show, and although the flowers did not come in great numbers, still it was a very creditable showing. A few Europeans of the town heard about it and came to the mission home to see the show.
They were very much surprised and delighted. I feel that we shall be doing a good work if we can encourage the Saints in this line." Rexburg Stake A VERY interesting account of a Daughters' Day celebration comes from Rexburg Stake.
During the month of August the Salem Ward held its Daughters' Day. The above picture is a mother with her eight daughters. The President writes, "Each officer's daughter took her mother's place and, where the officer had no daughter someone was selected from the Relief Society membership. The girls conducted the meeting, furnished an enjoyable program and served refreshments. At this gathering there were 43 mothers and 65 daughters present. A prize was awarded to the mother who had the largest number of daughters.
This was won by the chorister, Mrs. Myrtle Bohi, with her eight daughters.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BESSIE LAW AND DAUGHTERS
Morgan Stake MORGAN County is doing some fine work in the field of health. Believing in visual education, a picture was presented in the Morgan Ward together with an excellent health lecture. The County nurses rendered great service in this particular. The picture "Behind the Shadow" was furnished by the State Board of Health. All wards in the stake were invited and some very interesting facts were presented. This activity was held on the fifth Tuesday in November. The Stake Relief Society officers were pleased with the success of this picture and hope to give more of 'this type of instruction.. Deseret Stake ESERET Stake presents a very interesting item about its activity and work. Of particular interest was the meeting held in the Delta First Ward during January of this year. The Presidency of the ward entertained in honor of the Visiting Teachers who had a record of 100% visiting-teaching during the past year. To each of the sisters who had achieved this, a gift was made in appreciation for the work. Of especial note was the recognition, for outstanding service, of Johanna Dekker, a convert from Holland, who has labored faithfully as a Relief Society teacher and has the enviable record of 100% visitingteaching for the past fifteen years. She is as faithful in all duties as in this particular service, and it is a real pleasure on the part of her co-workers to recognize her service. A beautiful table lamp was presented to her. The picture included in this Stake's activity is another evidence of the interest of the stakes in the Daughters' Day. This picture is of. Sister Bessie Law and her seven daughters, who participated in the celebration in Deseret Stake.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford President Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: c -. - -:: - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Vou. XXV MARCH, 1938 No. 3
Editorials Forward O Oberlin College in Ohio, founded in 1833, goes the honor and distinction of being the first institution of higher learning to open its doors to women. The announcement is of interest: "for the elevation of female character by bringing within the reach of the misguided and neglected sex, all the instruction privileges which have hitherto unreasonably distinguished the leading sex from theirs."
Four young women enrolled as freshmen in regular college courses in 1837.
These women were graduated in August, 1841, and are supposed to have been the first women to receive degrees in the arts, under the standards prevailing in the best men's colleges of the day. The year following, 1842, a prophet of God said, "I now turn the key to you in the name of God and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time.
This was given as women were beginning the early skirmishes of a long drawn-out battle for recognition.
Those grandmothers and great grandmothers of ours, no less inherently able than women today, realized the need of women for greater opportunities for self-development.
Women of character, with their eyes open, their visions clear, they endured the hardships and abuses of pioneering in the field of education.
Indebted to them, we today find ourselves safely launched in practically all fields of human endeavor. The Relief Society has known seven valiant leaders who have caught the vision of the Prophet, and have been tireless in their devotion to the full development of Latter-day Saint women.
Cognizant that the dual source of education is wide experience and formal training, abundant opportunity has been provided Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 202 for each, thus bringing education to thousands of women. The Relief Society has exerted a profound influence upon the attitudes, ideals and conduct of its members. It has helped them to evaluate life in terms of its real worth to themselves and society. It encourages its members to avail themselves of educational opportunities wherever they are to be had, realizing that the more points of educational contact the more complete will be development RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the greater will be the hope of abundant living. Surely 75,000 educated women, banded together under the inspiration and guidance of a Heavenly Father will do much to push further back the frontiers of ignorance and advance far toward the end of attaining the good life for all.