			A TRUE LADY.

	While passing along down the stream of
time and going through mixed multitudes
of people among the Latter-day saints as
well as the rest of the human family; we
are shocked many times at the appearance
of some ladies (so considered) who stand in
responsible places; we stop and reflect and
ask ourselves the question, what does it
take to constitute a true lady? Beauty and
style are not the surest passports to re-
spectability. I think some of the noblest
specimens of womanhood that the world
has ever seen, have presented the plainest,
and most unprepossessing appearance. A
woman's worth is to be estimated by the
real goodness of her heart, the greatness of
her soul, and the purity and sweetness of
her character; and a woman with a kindly
disposition and a well-balanced mind and
temper is lovely and attractive; be her face
ever so plain, and her figure ever so homely,
she makes the best of wives and the truest
of mothers. She has a higher purpose in
living than the beautiful yet vain, and su-
percilious woman, who has no higher am-
bition than to flaunt her finery on the
streets, or to gratify her inordinate vanity
by extracting flattery and praise, from a so-
ciety whose compliments are as hollow as
they are insincere. I consider a true lady
must be genteel in her manner, at the same
time courteous and obliging, and remember
that true politeness consists in treating oth-
ers just as you wish to be treated yourself.
Those who always act upon this principle,
will prove pleasant companions, will always
have pleasing and agreeable ways; nature
is always graceful, while affectation with
all the art she may employ, can never pro-
duce anything half so charming. The idea
should be ever present to the mind of the
young lady, it is the duty of every woman
to cultivate those attractive graces so beau-
tiful in the sex; but the charm is lost un-
less they strive to awaken all the energies
of the mind, and put them to their proper
use; in this way a lady may do a vast
amount of good, which will render greater
attractions than any personal charm, and
transmit to her name greater honor than if
she inherited her tens of thousands yearly.
	The glitter of wealth and fashion are as
but a flare of light that attracts the eye as
it passes by, while the influence of a noble-
hearted woman will extend far beyond her
earthly life, living in the hearts of those
who were conscious of her good works.
	When friends call upon a true lady she
will treat them with great politeness, what-
ever the existing circumstances may be
she will make them welcome. How cheer-
ing it is to a travaler weary and far from
home to receive cordial hospitality at the
house of a friend. The true lady will ex-
tend kindness to her family circle, where
her influence will effect most beneficially
in giving tone to the home, and the dar-
ling little ones will partake of it; her pleas-
ant ways will shine "like a light that is set
upon a table that giveth light to all that are
in the room. The many great and noble
qualities that belong to a true lady who is a
firm believer in the Gospel, and also in the
good results therefrom are too numerous to
mention. When I behold a lady possessing
these principles so noble to me, she looks

[Column 2]
more like an angel than mortal. When I
was in the temple, I looked and wondered
if the angels looked even more charming
than those ladies who officiate there, they
are so genteel, so courteous and kind in
their manner and appearance, so motherly
and sisterly to all.			D. F. COX.
