DEATH IN THE DISHCLOTH.

	A lady says, in the "Rural World," that
during the sickly months, when some of
you are sure to be down with the typhoid
fever, when neighbors are neglecting their
own work to nurse you, when doctors are
hunting in cellars and old drains for the
cause, let me whisper in your ear, Look to
your dishcloths.  If they be black and stiff,
and smell like a "bone-yard," it is enough
—throw them in the fire, and from hence-
forth and forever wash your dishes with
cloths that are white, cloths that you can
see through, and see if you ever have the
disease again.  There are sometimes other
causes, but I have smelled a whole houseful
of typhoid fever in one "dishrag." I had
some neighbors once—clever, good sort of
folk; one Fall four of them were sick at one
time with typhoid fever.  The doctors or-
dered the vinegar barrels whitewashed,
and threw about forty cents' worth of car-
bolic acid in the swill-pail, and departed.
I went into the kitchen to make gruel; I
needed a dishcloth and looked about and
found several, and such "rags!"  I burned
them all, and called the daughter of the
house to get me a dishcloth.  She looked
round on the tables.  "Why," said she,
"there was about a dozen here this morn-
ing;" and she looked in the woodbox and
on the mantelpiece, and felt in the dark
corner of the cupboard.  "Well," I said, "I
saw some old, black, rotten rags lying
round and I burned them, for there is death
in such dishcloths as those, and you must
never use such again."  I "took turns,"
nursing that family four weeks, and I be-
lieve those dirty dishcloths were the cause
of all that hard work.  Therefore I say to
every housekeeper, keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may wear your dresses with-
out ironing, your sunbonnets without elas-
tics—but you must keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may only comb your hair on
Sundays, you need not wear a collar unless
you go from home—but you must wash
your dishcloth.  You may only sweep the
floor "when the sign gets right;" the win-
dows don't need washing, you can look out
at the door; that spider's web on the front
porch don't hurt anything—but, as you love
your lives, wash out your dishcloth.  Let
the foxtail get ripe in the garden (the seed
is a foot deep any way), let the holes in the
heels of your husband's foot rags go un-
darned, let the sage go ungathered, let the
children's shoes go two Sundays without
blacking, let two hens sit four weeks on
one wooden egg—but do wash your dish-
cloths.  Eat without a table-cloth, wash
your faces and let them dry, do without a
curtain for your windows, and cake for your
tea, but, for heaven's sake, keep your dish-
cloths clean.


[Column 1]
	THE BIBLE AND ITS TEACHINGS.
	SERMON BY REV. DR. A. HUEB[-]CH AT
