THE HEARING IN WASHINGTON.

	EDITORS JOURNAL.—Not having as yet
seen in your paper any account of the hear-
ing granted by the United States Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
the petitioners for a Sixteenth Amendment,
and as this was really the most important
feature of the recent effort in Washington,
I venture to send you some account of it.
	A striking characteristic of the late con-
vention was the large number of delegates
present from all parts of the country, most
of them women of ability and all of the
highest respectability. Representing, as
they did, such large sections of the Union,
the Committe, at considerable inconven-
ience to its members, granted two succes-
sive hearings.
	The Committee itself consisted of Sena-
tors Wadleigh, of New Hampshire, Mitch-
ell, of Oregon, Cameron, of Wisconsin,
McMillan, of Minnesota, Hoar, of Massa-
chusetts, Salisbury, of Delaware, and Hill,
of Georgia.
	On Friday, January 10, at 10.30 A. M,
they assembled in their committee room,
which was crowded with advocates of Wo-
man Suffrage.  Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier,
M. D., of New York, made the opening
address. She was followed by Miss Julia
Smith, of Connecticut, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, of New Jersey, Mrs. Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage, of New New York, Mrs. Mary A.
Stewart of Delaware, Mrs. Elizabeth Boyn-
ton Harbert, of Illinois, and Mrs. Priscilla
R. Lawrence, of Massachusetts.
	As a large number of delegates still re-
mained to be heard, by unanimous vote of
the Committee, a second hearing was grant-
ed on the following day, and in order to ac-
commodate the crowd that was anxious to
be present, this was held in the reception-room of the Senate, which was thronged to
overflowing.
	On this second day, Saturday, January
11, addresses were made by Rev. Olympia
Brown, of Connecticut, Mrs. Mary Powers
Filley, of New Hampshire, Dr. Mary
Thompson, of Oregon, Mrs. Lillie Deve-
reaux Blake, of New York, Mrs. Sara A.
Spencer, of the District of Columbia, and
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Connec-
ticut.
	At the conclusion of the hearing, Senator
Hoar presented a resolution declaring that
the arguments had been presented in a very
able and dignified manner; and the compli-
ment was well deserved, as each woman
had urged some local matter showing how
the women of her State suffered for the
want of the ballot, or presented one of the
great national arguments in its favor.
	A short hand reporter was employed by
the committee to take down all the speeches,
and the committee has since decided that
fifty thousand copies shall be printed, at
the expense of the Senate, a compliment
quite unprecedented.	L. D. B.
	New York.	—Woman's Journal.


AURELIA M. GILBERT, M. D., a graduate
of the Boston University medical depart-
ment, is located in Louisville, Ky., and is
establishing a practice there.


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular; giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
	Salt Lake City, Utah

[Column 2]
