	THE UTAH "Musical Times No. 11, Vol. 2, is
an excellent copy. It contains notes of inter-
est on the subject of musical composition, style,
etc, as well as items regarding composers of all
countries. If these periodicals are kept and
bound in volumes they will make a valuable
addition to home literature.

	LECTURES DELIVERED under the auspices
of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement As-
sociation are awakening considerable interest
among the young men. The lecture of Elder
Moses Thatcher published in the "Deseret
News" of Feb. 9th, contains many excellent
ideas, and couched in language simple yet elo-
quent. The lecture is well worth studying as
well as casually reading. But reading a lec-
ture is not as impressive, howover carefully it
may be read as hearing it delivered by a per-
son who feels himself what he speaks, and
throws into his subject the force of his re-


marks. The voice, the manner, the presence
all serve to enhance the value of the opinions
or views expressed.
	ELDER DANIEL Graves has been traveling
and lecturing in the interests of sericulture in
the northern settlements. Elder G. informs
us that he has delivered thirteen lectures dur-
ing his tour. In most places he had very large
audiences and in all there seemed to be a re-
newal of interest on the subjeet of silk culture.
In Centreville they have a ribbon loom, and
have excellent warp, and are waiting for suita-
ble filling. Elder G. is engaged in a good
cause, and one that should be encouraged by
those who are looking to the future interests of
the community. Elder G. states that according
to the statistics on silk importation that in two
ports only, New York and San Francisco, over
$28,000,000 were expended for raw silk in the
year 1875. The subject of sericulture is now
under discussion throughout the Territory, and
there will be multitudes of trees put out this
year.
	THE TELEPHONE:—On Thursday afternoon,
through the courtesy of Elder A. M. Musser,
we had the privilege of witnessing the trial of
that recent invention, for transmitting sound,
the Telephone. It is seemingly of very simple
construction. The connection was from the
office of President Taylor to that of Bishop
Hunter, nearly a block, and the sounds were
heard perfectly when all was quiet. The mus-
ic performing at either end of the line could
be clearly heard at the opposite end, different
voices and different instruments being dis-
tinguishable. The transmssion of the sound
makes the music still more melodious and con-
veys to the mind the idea of music heard in
dreams, sweet and low. We were permitted
to ask one question and the answer was as dis-
tinct as though the person had stood by our
side. The Telephone will, no doubt be made a
means of saving time and labor; people can
transact business without leaving home, and
carry on conversations with persons in other
places without the trouble of writing letters or
sending telegrams even. This means of con-
veying sound is but in its first stages of de-
velopment, and no doubt will be made practi-
cable in many ways and for many purposes
not now apparent.


