OBITUARIES.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of another of our beloved sisters, Isa-
bella Layton, wife of Christopher Layton,
Kaysville, and daughter of Richard and Isa-
bella Golightly of Salt Lake City, both now
deceased. She departed this life on Saturday,
December 15, 1877. She died as she had lived
a true Latter-day Saint, full of faith in the
holy priesthood and in the order of Celestial
Marriage which she embraced in her youth, in
the year 1854, at the age of eighteen. Al-
though her path has not always been strewn
with flowers, she has like a rock in the ocean
been immovable. True to her Father in heav-
en, true to her children, true to her husband,
and to her religion, to her last moments. She
has left seven children, four sons and three
daughters. Lightly as the order of Plural
Marriage may be treated by some, it gives to
those who comprehend it joy and consolation
to see one who has borne the heat and burden
of the day for twenty-three years, pass away
so beautifully as our sister did. Her sufferings
were great for a long time. She was afflicted
with dropsy of which she died; yet her faith in
the Gospel never faltered. Many times during
her affliction she would say, how thankful she
was that her lot was cast among the Saints of
God; and that she had raised her children
where they could be cared for, and taught the


principles of our holy religion. Sisters, such
examples should encourage us to press on to
the end of our journey, for be assured that
there is eternal life for us, if we will live faith-
ful and true to our covenants. Deceased was
a Teacher in the Relief Society of Kaysville
which office she filled cheerfully as long as she
was able. She was kind and true to all her
many friends and acquaintances. She was
born in Newcastle upon Tyne, Northumber-
landshire, England, Sept. 6th. 1836, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1853. May it be our happy
lot to endure to the end as our sister has done,
is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, Feb. 7th, 1878.

	DIED AT North Ogden, Weber Co., Utah, on
Sunday, Jan. 27th, 1877, of child-bed fever,
Eva Elizabeth Clark, beloved wife of Charles
Clark, and daughter of Abraham and Mary
Chadwick, aged twenty-one years, three
months and four days. Deceased has ever
been a faithful member of the church, and
held the office of president of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Society in North Ogden
from its organization, March, 24th, 1875, until
within a recent date of her death. Her con-
duct was always of that exemplary character
which denotes the true Christian; she leaves a
husband and young babe to mourn her loss,
who are sympathized with by a large circle of
friends.
		 	MARION WHEELOCK, Pres. R. S.
	Eeb., 9th, 1878.


