[CONCLUDED.]

	If you have not the mulberry trees—I have
proffered for years to give the trees and if you
want a thousand you are welcome to them, or
a million, I am ready to give them to you.
Some twenty years ago I sent for mulberry
seed. I have raised thonsands and tens of
thousands of trees, and they are in this Terri-
tory. I have a large cocoonery that I built
twelve or fourteen years ago. I have given the
use of that—a building about 20 x 110 feet, and
I have given the use of the mulberry trees, and
given the people all the trees they want. They
are a beautiful shade tree and the fruit is good.

[Column 2]
A great many people are fond of the fruit; it
is healthy for children.
	When you feel disposed to make a little
money, go into the raising of silk, which is one
of the easiest branches of business that was
ever followed. There is no other work the
women can do that will yield the same amount
of profit. This is a matter that I wish you to
hearken to. Will you bless yourselves, and do
good to yourselves? We have plenty of weav-
ers who can take the silk and know how to
manufacture it: and they will give you all you
could reasonably ask for it.
	Now let the beauty of your adorning be the
work of your own hands. Will you not, Pres-
idents, ask your Societies to enter into this
agreement, and go to work and make what
you want to wear. Then we will appeal to the
brethren and say, "come, let us wear the head-
dresses that our wives and our sisters can
make; and it would be very healthy for the
men to wear straw hats winter and summer.
We would not see so many bald heads as we
now see around here. Straw hats are perfectly
healthy to wear. I have worn them through
winter; and the only objection I have to them
is that they are a little too tight and close.
Let the sisters go to work and make these
things.
	Now, sisters, I plead with you to stop these
fashions. They are nonsense. Bro. Carring-
ton has given you a fine detail of them. They
are miserable looking. I dare not tell you
how they look to me, and how the vanity looks
that is in the minds of the people. How long
is it since my family said to me of hoops,
"They are so nice and comely; how would we
look were we to take these hoops off? why we
would look like the town pump. Would you
not be ashamed of us?" I am ashamed. I am
ashamed to see the tight clothes—to see the
shape of the ladies. How long is it since the
sleeves were so loose, that when you go into
into a store and the gentleman says, "are you
not going to buy a pair of sleeves?" "O, if I
buy a pair of sleeves I shall have to have a
new dress."  "O, I will give you a dress."
Eighteen yards in the sleeves, and three yards
in the dress! These foolish fashions what good
do they do? I have asked my sisters what
they would think if a lady who lives in heaven
should pay them a visit. Would she come
with these large sleeves on—a mu[-]ton leg
sleeve, with her dress pulled right out in front
of her? Now, it is pulled out here. It is very
unwise. It is nonsense and uncomely. It is
the best looking of anything in the world
when Brother Carrington sees his wife in her
new calico dress. "You look just as you did
when I courted you." Now there is another
fashion. You see a girl with her hair clipped
off in front of her head; she looks as though
she had just come out of a lunatic asylum.
The hair is for an ornament. You can love a
woman with a comely dress on of her own
make, just as well as though she had on a dress
that cost five thousand pounds.
	We do not seem to realize that we have to
give an account of the days we spend in folly,
and that we will be found wanting if we spend
our time foolishly. When you come to the
wheat and the fine flour, to the gold and the
silver and the prescious stones, the Lord owns
them. But what have we? Our time. Spend
it as you will. Time is given to you; and when
this is spent to the best possible advantage for
promoting truth upon the earth, it is placed to
your account, and blessed are you; but when
we spend our time in idleness and folly, it will
be placed against us. Here is the difference.
	Now, Sisters, take hold; do this that we ask
you to do. It is for your own benefit, and


health, and life, and comfort of the people,
and the building up of Zion. And let us go
to, and establish the Zion of God upon the
earth, that we may be prepared to enjoy it,
which I most earnestly pray for every day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.


