	THE TEMPLE AHAWATH CHESED.

	The Rev. Dr. Huebsch preached a ser-
mon on the above subject at the Jewish tem-
ple Ahawatch Chesed, Lexington avenue,
not long since. His text was taken from
Genesis, ii.—"This is the book of the gen-
erations of Adam. On the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made
He him."
	The great Roman orator, said the Doctor,
has pronounced it that books had their fate.
Some are still born, some live for a short
period and then expire; the very few that
survive in the length of time become slaves;
chained to the shelves of the antiquarian
they cease to be fields on which life reaps
its harvest of wisdom and change into the
secluded hunting ground, where the liter-
ary chaser hunts after the rare game of an-
tique oddities. One book makes an excep-
tion. Its glorious destiny was sealed by
its first appearance and in spite of rolling
time and its destructive power this book,
with never abating strength, serves its des-
tination. If there be no other proof of the
divine origin of the Bible its perpetual
youth, its never slacking use and usefulness,
speak sufficiently of its superiority over all
human wisdom. It is the book for all times
and all men; it teaches the king justice and
humility, and infuses trust and dignity in-
to the beggar; it shows to the learned the
boundaries where human wisdom ends, and
brings the dawning spirit of the child to
the gates where human wisdom begins; it
advises the joyful to enhance and purify
his joys, and informs mercifully the aching
and breaking heart how to alleviate sorrow
and mourning. It raises the finger of warn-
ing toward the youth not to trust in the
abundance of strength, and at the same
time lends the fortifying staff to the weary
wanderer for his last steps through the
dark valley of death. It speaks to nations
and to individuals, to all humanity and to
every single member of human kind. It
promulgates the highest principles of poli-
tics, and imparts the modest rules for the
humble household; it embraces man in all
dimensions, earth in all climates, time in all
changes, and eternity in all its glory. One
would think that to cover such an immense
range of instruction a system must be ap-
plied which is complicated and and difficult
to be comprehended. It is not so. The
whole book is based on one cardinal point,
from which all the streams of light break
forth with such abundance, strength and
intensity as to penetrate into all circles and
classes of humanity's life.
	The fountainhead of all human morality
is concentrated in the one truth: on the day
that God created man "in the likeness of
God made he him!" From this relation of
man to God issues the infallible arrange-
ment of all relations between man and
man; moral affinity and moral associations
—this is the Alpha and Omega of the Scrip-
tural system. The faultiness of human life
is the sad consequence of swerving from
this system.
	The Doctor reviewed the various branch-
es of human activity, and how they are and
how they ought to be. He spoke about the
amount of genius, physical strength and
the money which is wasted in Europe at 
this moment to destroy man and his pros-
perity. If the same means were applied to
further the welfare of mankind, would we
not progress further in one decade than we
do in centuries? The great book proclaims
love—love founded on moral aff[-]inity—and,

[Column 2]
therefore, it will always remain sound and
vigorous in its teaching; and the regenera-
tion of humankind will take place, when
the Divine Book will be the respected and
obeyed moral adviser of all the children of
Adam.


