COMMENCEMENT OF SCHOOLS.
	Utah is not behind in the matter of good insti-
tutions of learning. As the time comes round
for the opening of schools, Academies, Colleges
and Universities, one is apt to think more upon
this important subject, the education of the child-
ren.
	We have received, and we acknowledge the
same with thanks, the Annual of the University
of Deseret, for 1890—91: We are sorry that our
limited space prohibits us just now from making
an extended notice of this Territorial institution.
We notice among the Faculty and Board of In-
structors some names we are not familiar with
but presume they will have the interest of the ad-
vancement of the higher education of the youth
of Utah at heart. Young men have gone out
from this University in the past well qualified for
any practical work they might wish to undertake
in the great world of science and skill. With
the superior advantages and facilities the Univer-
sity is now in possession of, there ought to be
great progress corresponding with the rapid
strides now being made in this enlightened nine-
teenth century. The University of Deseret will
open on Monday September 1,1890, Dr. J. R.
Park, Principal.
	The Latter Day Saints College, the Central
Normal College in this city, in which we as a
people are deeply and directly interested will
open its fifth academic year on the first of Septem-
ber 1890. The Board of Education and the
Faculty of the college are the same that have
been published in our columns before, and are
able exponents of the subjects they teach. This
school should surpass any other because of the
advantages it affords for religious cultivation
training and discipline, which is the highest
spiritual and moral excellence when combined
with progressive intelligence and wisdom.
Similar schools or colleges and academies have
been established in almost every Stake and the
Latter-day Saints are supporting them with means
and their patronage; while at the same time pay-
ing regularly towards the maintenance of the
district schools throughout the Territory which
we understand open on the same date. The
Mormon people believe practically in giving their
children superior educational advantages, misrep-
resentation to the contrary notwithstanding.
Those who come here with their eyes open and
not blinded by prejudice know that this is the
case.
	Judge- Carlton’s article will open the under-
standing of fair minded people on some of the
vexed questions about Mormonism. The gentle-
man was a member of the Utah Commission and
lived here for some years, and he knows whereof
he speaks.


