WOMEN’S MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES.
	Meeting was held at Cedar City at 10 a. m.,
Friday morning August 9, Mrs. Ann Elizabeth
Webster presiding. Opened by singing “Lord
we come before thee now,” an excellent prayer
was offered by Elder Christopher Arthur, singing
again “Praise ye the Lord.” The President
Sister Webster made a few opening remarks, al-
luded to the great work for the dead as well as
for the living, and how much she enjoyed the
spirit of the Gospel and her labors in the Relief
Society.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt prayed that the Lord
would give those assembled hearing ears and un-
derstanding hearts that they might profit by what
they heard from time to time and on this occasion;
rejoiced to have the sisters from the Central
Board of the Relief Society from Salt Lake City
in their midst.
	Sister Sage Jones made a very pretty illustra-
tion in her speaking, said the great proportion of
the surface of the earth is rough, and requires
an effort to subdue and temper it for the habita-
tions and benefit of mankind, and it is so with
our lives there are many trials and rough places
to pass through which give us great experiences
and are beneficial to us.
	Bishop William Corry made brief remarks;
thought the sisters were more alive to their duties
than the brethren were.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, said she had been in

[Column 2]
Cedar City in a very early day 37 years ago, and
remembered her experience at that time. Spoke of
the changes that had taken place since in various
ways, and of the wonderful changes that were
transpiring with the people at the present time;
gave a brief account of her being healed when she
came into the Church, her baptism being the first
in Laporte Indiana. Spoke of obedience, charity
and love for our neighbors; the tendency among
us to become careless because we are pushed
and hurried, it is the spirit of the age, everything
is done in the quickest manner possible, teleg-
raphy and the telephone have made a great
difference in our lives, we can send messages like
lightning long distances, and hear the voices of
our friends a hundred miles away, science is doing
marvelous things and we must move onward with
the improvements that are everywhere being
made. Sister Richards urged the sisters to make
the home a heaven.
	Singing “Sweet is the work my God my King,”
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the as-
sembly for a short time upon the current topics of
the times, and especially the political situation of
affairs here in Utah and in the country generally;
gave a sketch of some things that had come
under her observation at Washington and in the
Supreme Court of the United States in 1886—
when the case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow was be-
fore that august body.
	Sister Webster made a few closing remarks,
spoke of the great faith and spiritual power that
was given to those who were humble; singing
“Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.” The bene-
diction was pronounced by Elder U. Jones.

	Conference of Relief Society Parowan Stake,
at Parowan Sunday a. m. August 10. Sister
Ellen W. Lunt presiding, opened by singing
“Awake ye saints of Latter-days,” prayer by
Bishop John Adams, sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Pres. Lunt made a few opening remarks, thank-
ing the Lord for all his blessings, and announced
the sisters from Salt Lake City; said she had
visited all the wards in that Stake, had represent-
atives from all the wards except Kanarra; Paro-
wan, Cedar City Paragoonah and Summit Wards
were reported, Parowan, Sister Benson very good
report spoke well of the sisters and referred to
the saving of grain.—Cedar City Pres. A. E.
Webster spoke of the disposition among the peo-
ple of the world to seek after riches and not give
heed to the still small voice, exhorted the young
mothers to question children daily in regard to
their habits and what they had been doing, teach
them strict honesty, truthfulness and virtue.
	Sister Eliza Barton, Pres. of R. S. Paragoonah
reported the Society there in good condition and
bore her testimony in a humble manner to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Lettie Dalley Pres. Summit R. S. gave a
good report of that place and said she was very
glad to see the sisters from Salt Lake come to
visit them, added her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, felt she would always
rather hear the brethren speak; felt a weakness
in speaking to the public; alluded to the prayer
made at the opening of the meeting. She always
liked to hear the minutes read at the Conferences
of the sisters, it was customary and had always
been done in Weber Stake where Pres. Young had
organized the Relief Society in July the year he
died; she had spoken to Pres. Woodruff since
and he approved of it.
	Thought it was a good thing for us to criticise
ourselves, it helped us to be more careful and
diligent. Confession was always good and hu-
mility in all things,she loved to hear the testimony
of the little children; she spoke eloquently upon
the healing of the sick by prayer and administra-
tion, also obedience to parents and respect to
the aged; referred to her great love for her own

[Column 3]
parents and made some happy illustrations;
talked well of the Primary Associations and
urged the parents to send the children there to be
taught of the things of the kingdom. Touched
upon other subjects calculated to do good and
to make a deep impression upon the minds of the
people assembled there.
	Sister Holyoak and Sister Mandina Dalley each
occupied a short time expressing many good
wishes and desires; they were followed by Sister
E. B. Wells who dwelt upon the great benefits
and advantages of the organizations of women
and children in the Relief Society, Young Ladies’
and Primary Associations; spoke of the Prophet
Joseph and his great love for little children, the
faith he had in the prayers of the little ones, and
urged the children to seek for faith and to be
diligent in attending their prayers and regular at 
their meetings, believed that notwithstanding the
difficulties now in our pathway, that the present
time was a good day for Zion.
	Choir sang the anthem "Praise ye the Lord,”
Benediction by Bishop Wm. Corry.
	Afternoon session: Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt pre-
siding, singing “Awake ye slumbering ministrels,”
prayer by Elder David Mathewson, singing “I
saw an angel from on high.” The sacrament
was administered, and afterwards Sister Mary
Ann Lunt spoke upon the Relief Society work
and the education of mothers, referred to the silk
culture and the lectures upon health in their meet-
ings. Sister Sage Jones alluded to the prophets
who had spoken so beautifully in regard to Zion
in the last days; did not think it was pleasing to
our Heavenly Father that there were so many poor
among us as a people, hoped to see the day when
there would be no poor in Zion; felt the Relief
Society had done much good to those in need,the
sick and the sorrowing; her remarks were tender
and full of love.
	Sister Jane Birkbeck, rejoiced in the Gospel,
she had left all that was near and dear to her to
gather with the saints, and was glad she had re-
ceived the truth and never regretted leaving her
home or her dear native land; felt however in
rising to speak that she would rather cook a din-
ner for all those assembled there than stand up to
speak to them; but wished to be obedient when
called upon.
	Sister Benson spoke a few words bore her testi-
mony to the truth. Sister E. B. Wells, spoke
upon general matters more especially the educa-
tion and advancement of women, and their politi-
cal status the nesessity of a thorough understand-
ing of the practical duties of life, and the religion
they had embraced, also the constitution and gov-
ernment of the country; as mothers and wives,
women need information on all subjects, and to
impart it to their children.
	Pres. Webster of Parowan Stake spoke of the
good work of the Relief Society and bore testi-
tomy to the diligence and faithfulness of the
sisters in that Stake and the help they were to
the Bishops.
	Sister Jane S. Richards made some remarks
upon the labors of the sisters, felt most of them
worked too hard; said the Relief Society was not
any old lady’s getting up not even Sister Eliza
R. Snow—we had not taken this upon ourselves
it had been established through the priesthood,
by Joseph Smith the Prophet—she thought the
sisters had done enough in making quilts and
carpets and she hoped they would meet often and
get spiritual strength and only do such work as
was really necessary. Sister Eliza had said the
coals would not die out if we put the fire together
often; she was a wonderful woman and did a
great work, Mother in Israel would not half ex-
press it. “Sisters comfort each other, remember
our children and the children of our neighbors
let us lend a helping hand wherever we can
think how we can help to save one who is weak
or erring, the Scriptures speak of the lost sheep,


there was more rejoicing over his return than
over the ninety and nine who went not astray.”
Sister Richards spoke of the temptations to our
young people especially the boys in the cities of
Salt Lake and Ogden and thought we needed
great strength and constant prayer to keep their
feet from straying.
	Pres. Jones made excellent remarks upon wo-
man suffrage, endorsed what had been said and
spoke of the Church school that was about to be
established in Parowan.
	Pres. Morgan Richards bore testimony also,
and said he enjoyed hearing the mothers and
sisters talk.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt felt thankful for the good
teaching that had been given in this Conference,
exhorted all to give heed to the same and to put
it into practice in their lives. Exhorted the
young to be careful in keeping the commandments
of God, said the glory of a woman is chastity, and
and urged the necessity of perserving a purity of
life and conduct. Was glad the sisters from Salt
Lake City had visited them, had enjoyed the time
very much, loved the sisters and the brethren,
said this is the 42d quarterly conference of the
Relief Society and believed it was the best, the
last is always the best. We want to be on our
guard all the time and prepare for whatever may
come. Heber C. Kimball used to say death was
like going from the kitchen to the parlor and
therefore we must needs make preparation, may
the Lord help us all, and bless us that we may
prove faithful.
	Choir sang the anthem “Nearer home.” Bene-
diction by President Jones.
			[To be continued.]


