A MIDSUMMER DAY IN THE
COUNTRY.
		"See	the glowing sunlight now
		Tint the mountain's misty brow.”
	Who ever does see the first gleam of sun-
light, is well repaid for the effort, for it re-
quires an effort to shake off our drowsiness
on a summer’s morning. It is not only the
rosy gleam that first “tints the mountain” and
then steals across the valley and bursts upon
us with a glory only surpassed by heavenly
brightness, but it is all nature, from the wee
innocent flower half hidden by the green damp
grass, to the tall towering mountains that form
the background to all the scenes so dear to us
the mountain people.
	All living creatures rejoice in the beauties
of life, and dull must be the brain,and callous
the heart, that does not as the lark
		"Tune its first lays to its Maker’s praise.”
	We must rejoice with nature but there is
work for all, and, by the time a farmer’s wife
has prepared the morning meal she is so tired,
and a sweet piping voice reaches her she al-
most wishes the baby had slept until after
breakfast, but when a vision of white-robed
figures fill the door, with eyes beaming with
pleasure at the thought that they have brought
the baby, all thoughts of murmuring vanish,
and as warm loving arms encircle, and baby
kisses are showered unsparingly, there comes
to the tired mother the greatest happiness
that life has to give.
	As the mid-day sun glances down upon us our
weariness increases, and we do not see so much
beauty in nature, as in the mid-day of life we
feel the heat and the burden, but when the
long lingering afternoon passes over and we
have had time for a little rest, we begin again
again to enjoy living, but not with the same
buoyant happiness of the morning, for many
disappointments have darkened the bright
dawning, a long-expected letter; a long-wished
for friend has not arrived, with many other
petty, but annoying vexations, but with a
calm, almost holy feeling, akin to awe, we
realize that with all our hopes, joys, fears and
disappointments we have  drifted one day
nearer eternity.
		"Sweet is summer's evening hour,
		Soothing in its magic power,
		Gentle whispers seem to say
		Life is but a summer day;
		And its close if spent aright
		Tranquil as a summer night.
								E. T.
July' 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		HEPHZIBAH.
		XXVII.
Sad was the parting, weary was the way,
	The Prilgrims trod, while journeying along;
Many the trials’ encountered day by day,
	And yet at eve the merry dance and song,—
The drooping spirits cheer'd and hope grew bright;
	And when they knelt upon the ground to pray, -
They seem’d to see a resting place in sight,
	And holy angels, guarding all their way.

[Column 2]
	Hepsie felt that parting thus from her
mother, after all she had suffered alone, was
indeed a test of her faith, and sincerity; and
she prayed fervently for strength,and firmness,
to take this final step, that seemed to her a
cross,—a sacrifice, greater than any she had
voluntarily made; and she was doing this her-
self; it appeared much harder since her mother
had spoken her feelings on the subject, in fact
prophesied of the future; and it did look cruel,
yet an irresistible impulse led her on. When
alone she questioned her own heart as to the
motives which induced her to take, what looked
to others to be, “a leap in the dark.”
	Was it because Harold’s unfaithfulness had
killed out all affection, and made her cold and
and distrustful, and desirous of burying her-
self among those, who were not akin to her,
and could have no claim upon her love, or
gratitude? sometimes she felt afraid it was so;
—that she was selfish; and then there would
come over her, a wave of singular emotions, so
exalting in their nature, that she seemed
wafted into a celestial atmosphere, where all
human love was swallowed up in the great
river of life, that flowed ever onward connect-
ing the seen with the unseen, the real with the
ideal, the earthly with the eternal. At such
times her thoughts would take the most lofty
flights, that made the present appear like a
shadowy myth,compared to the glory to be at-
tained by sacrifice, and compliance with the
will of God, which under certain influences
seemed so plain to her understanding. This
knowledge was so sacred in its character, and
its effect upon her was such that she did not
dare to explain it to any one if she had been
inclined, not even her mother.
	To Hepsie it was above and beyond all the
education the world could give; and to which
in the past she had aspired with so much en-
thusiasm. No sacrifice looked too great if she
could only endure it in view of the promises held
out to her in connection with the principles
she had been taught. Hepsie realized in a
very small degree what sacrifice and endurance
meant, but she was naturally hopeful and
having had some sharp trials that cut very
keen and close into her heartstrings, she
naturally enough thought these lessons had
paved the way for higher ones. And so indeed
it proved.
	There were some discouragements thrown
in her pathway, and there were those beside
her mother, who tried to hinder her from leav-
ing Nauvoo with the first company. There
were offers of this kind and that, and objec-
tions raised of various kinds, but these had no
weight whatever,she had set her face Westward
and was not to be thwarted in her purpose for
trifles. One young friend and companion used
every effort in her power to hinder her from
undertaking the journey and when she saw
how immovable Hepsie was, she accused her
of never having truly loved Harold, and went
so far as to say, “you dare not face his father
and mother, you are going away without see-
ing them; they have been told that you are go-
ing, and they mean to put a stumbling block
in your way, for you are still his wife what-
ever you may think, and they are determined
you shall not go; they know very well if you
do Harold will never come back. What have
you to say to them, will you be answerable for
his utter ruin?
	Hepsie quickly replied, “my religion has
aught me to love my enemies and although I


[Column 1]﻿
am far from perfect in that lesson which the
Savior taught, yet I am not afraid to meet
Harold's parents; I know I have not wronged
Harold or them my conscience is clear and you
can tell them so.”
	“Well Hepsie, they’ve sent for you to come
out to Laharpe and see them,there’s a carriage
waiting at Uncle Jo’s for you now will you go?
Have you no fears that you may be persuaded
to remain? they will offer you great induce-
ments to stay with them, you know they have
lots of money.”
	“Katie their money weighs nothing with me,
they would not give one cent to Harold and I
when they knew how destitute we were before
baby was born, but I can forgive them even
that, and I will go, if you will go with me,
and they shall see I am not a moral coward,
and could face the whole world were it neces-
sary to prove my sincerity in my religion.”
“Will you go with me you know them all and
I should even be glad to see Oney once more
and leave a message with him for Harold
should he ever return, tho’ my heart tells me
he never will!” “Yes, Hepsie I’ll go and tell
the folks at Uncle Joe’s that we’ll go,and mind
you must be ready early tomorrow morning its
a long drive.”
	Hepsie had many reflections that night and
such strange dreams, she had not told any one
where she was going except her mother, and
she had objected saying, “Hepsie my dear, you
over-estimate your strength, you will break
down, and your nerves are already shattered,
O, that dreadful woman, why did I ever
trust you with her. “Mother I am going,”
said Hepsie to show Mrs. Harvey, that I am
converted to a faith that more than compen-
sates me for Harold’s absence, and perhaps
my dear mother, his lack of manhood, has
been my salvation; for I could never have
been modified, subdued, changed as I am nor
have seen the frivolity of worldly things as
I do now, if I had not passed through “a fiery
furnace,” if I had not been left utterly alone
and friendless, as well as destitute, and only
One above to look to, and lean upon. I will
tell this to the Harvey’s and who knows but
it may be a testimony to warn them and save
them from Apostacy.”
	Her mother replied, “Hepsie I shall not
object to the free exercise of your will in the
matter, nor in regard to your going away; I
comprehend now that you have received light
and knowledge beyond most young people of
your age, and I am prepared to consent to
your going away with the main body of the
Church. I shall make no remonstrance
hereafter.” This concession on the part of
Mrs. Hathaway was very consoling to Hepsie.
	On the following morning Hephzibah and
her friend Kate P. left the city for Laharpe; it
was late in the day when they arrived at the
Harvey residence, for sure enough it had been
as Kate said beforehand a long drive; they
were cold and tired, and the reception they
received was also a very cool one.
	Mrs. Harvey detected almost immeadiately
that Hepsie had not come to stay, and she
resented her bringing Kate with her; but
Hepsie was prepared fot the encounter, such
as it was. “O, I can see plainly, that you’re
not a bit humbled by your trouble; your just
as proud as ever, pride and poverty don’t go
well together though.”
	These and similar sayings were the greet-
ings she recieved and the only comfort the
visit afforded her was a word or two with
Harold’s brother. He assured her of his
brotherly affection and also that he still
believed Mormonism was true and hoped
some day his mother would be convinced of
her error in persuading his father to leave
Nauvoo. He told Hepsie he felt sure Harold
was dead from things he had dreamed con-
cerning him; and Hepsie knowing his delicate

[Column 2]
spiritual temperament felt he must be right. It
would be too much to detail items of this
visit, but Hepsie and Kate went back to
Nauvoo fully convinced of the apostacy of Mrs.
Harvey, and she was the ruling spirit in the
household. When they parted, Mrs. Harvey
said to Hepsie, “I suppose if you’re not married
to one of the heads of the Church you’re go-
ing to be, and you’ll never see Harold again,
or have a dollar of our money.” But her
words had no effect upon the young woman ex-
cept to disgust her with her oft-repeated allu-
sions to money. On the way home Hepsie
said to Kate “dont tell mother how we were
treated, it will make her so indignant and un
happy, besides mother and the children will
be left here when we go away, and we don’t
know what may transpire, you know the
Harvey’s spoke highly and kindly of mother
and they might do her a favor; she may need it
for if as they say, the remainder of the Saints
are likely enough to be driven after we are
gone,who can tell what she may need, and it is
better for her not to know, any way it could’nt
do any good and it might do harm.” Kate
however didn’t see fit to promise, and as soon as
she had an opportunity told Mrs. Hathaway
everything except that Mrs. Harvey accused
Hepsie of being married to one of the heads of
the Church. She knew that would be going a
little too far, if she meant to retain Hepsie’s
friendship, and she was anxious to have her
favor, for she knew that Hepsie’s influence
would be a blessing; she herself had questioned
her about the gossip refered to, on the journey
home and became convinced that whatever
step Hepsie intended to take, she was terribly
in earnest; and if she ever married again the
marriage would be solomnized upon a higher
platform, than either Mrs. Harvey the elder,or
Mrs. Hathaway could appreciate at present.


