BENEFITS OF PRIMARY ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Solomon says “as the twig is bent the tree
inclines" for this reason, the Primary Associa-
tion is among the most important organizations
connected with the Latter Day work, for ’tis
here the very young children learn of the
teachings of our Savior when upon the earth,
proclaiming the same gospel that has in our
day been restored to man through Joseph
Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century;
'tis here the little children are taught to love


and revere the Father and His only son Jesus
Christ, who loved good children so well that
He said “suffer little children to come unto
me for of such is the kingdom of Heaven.” ’Tis
here that all the offspring of all our fathers
and mothers are,or may be taught to lift their
voices in prayer to Him who gave them their
very being, and it is at these meetings even the
lisping babe learns to sing praises to His Holy
name.
	What a labor it must be for those who are
set apart by the servants of the living God to
thus instruct us, that the youngest may be able
to understand the true way to gain everlasting
life.  These are some of the benefits and bless-
ings to be obtained by becoming an earnest
worker in the Primary Association; then let us
each one strive to fully appreciate these Heaven
given blessings.
						IDA MAY SMITH.
	Parowan.

	The Millenial Star. Liverpool: George Teas
dale, 42, Islington, pp. 824.—This weekly
which is the organ of the Latter-day saints in
this country, has wonderfully preserved its
fulness, go, and vigor for the last fifty-one years
and never was it so ably conducted as it is
to-day.  Under the guidance of Mr. Teasdale,
the head quarters of the Latter-day Saints is a
centre of untiring energy, unflagging zeal, in-
domitable pluck, and of most varied resource.
From it streams the best literature of the
movement, and all is issued at the lowest pos-
sible price.  The “Millenial Star” is always
solid yet bright, fresh yet never frivolous,
weighty yet never heavy, and instructive yet
always attractive.  Many of the articles deal
exhaustively with misunderstandings, misrep-
resentations, and mistreatment.  These articles
are scholarly, manly, fair, and while they are
courteous, they never mince matters.  The
editor courts inquiry and discussion.  He
maintains the divine origin and authority of
the book of Mormon, and states calmly and dis-
passionately the grounds of his faith and he
seeks that those grounds be as calmly and dis-
passionately examined.  The other articles
consist of reports of meetings held both in
Salt  Lake  City and in these three king-
doms; also notes on news, excerpts from the
Mormon periodical literature.  The magazine
is one of singular power and freshness, and is
well worthy of any religious denomination.
In its annual form it makes a handsome and
interesting volume.—The Hymn book of the
Latter-day Saints has now reached its twentieth
edition.  It consists of three hundred and
fifty-six hymns, selected from various sources.
The book may be had in every style of binding,
and at the lowest possible prices.  It is a very
fine collection of sacred songs, and no wonder
that the demand for them is so great.
			Brighouse and Rastrick Gazette.
	England.


The superior man wishes to be slow in his
words and earnest in his conduct.— Confucious.


