THE SONG OF THE SEA.
The song of the sea was an ancient song
    In the days when the earth was young;
The waves were gossipping loud and long
    Ere mortals had found a tongue.
The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung,
    Or soothed to a siren strain,


As they tossed the primitive isles among
    Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea took a human tone
    In the days of the coming of man;
A mournfuler meaning swelled her moan,
    And fiercer her riots ran;
Because that her stately voice began
    To speak of our human woes;
With music mighty to grasp and span
    Life's tale and its passion-throes.
Such was the song as it grew to be,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea was a hungry sound
    As the human years unrolled,
For the notes were hoarse with the doomed and drowned
    Or choked with a shipwreck's gold:
Till it seemed no dirge above the mold,
    So sorry a story said,
As the midnight cry of the waters old
    Calling above their dead.
Such is the song and its threnody,
Such is the song of the sea.

The song of the sea is a wondrous lay,
    For it mirrors human life;
It is grave and great as the judgment day.
    It is torn with the thought of strife;
Yet under the stars it is smooth and rife,
    With love-lights everywhere,
When the sky has taken the deep to wife
    And their wedding day is fair—
Such is the ocean's mystery.
Such is the song of the sea.
—Richard E. Burton, in the Mail and Express.


[Column 1]
	﻿NATIONAL PENSION FUND FOR
			NURSES.
	An interesting ceremony took place at
Marlborough House on July 4th, when the
Princess of Wales presented certificates of
membership of the National Pension Fund for
Nurses to representatives of the first 1,000
who joined the fund. The number of nurses
present was about 700, and they were ranged
in companies under the trees in the gardens
behind Marlborough House. The variety of
the uniforms worn made the scene a very
picturesque one, the green of the grass and
trees relieving the sombre colours of the
dresses, which were mostly of some shade of
gray.  All the principal hospitals of London,
and very many in other parts of the United
Kingdom, were represented, while here and
there were to be seen the special uniforms
worn on foreign service.
	The allegorical design on the certificates was
from an etching by Miss Lillian Smythe.
Three gracefully-draped figures representing
Labor, Skill and Thrift are shown receiving
the gifts which Rank and Wealth prompted
by Sympathy, hold out to them, while Benevo-
lence, in the background, beckons others to
follow their example. Each certificate had
been signed by the Princess of Wales, and
stated that it was presented in testimony of
the fact that the recipient was one of the first
1,000 nurses who joined the fund, and thus
became one of the founders who secured £25,-
000 as the nucleus of a permanent trust for
the benefit of the nurses of the British Em-
pire.
	As each nurse passed the steps she received
her certificate from the hands of the Princess.
A very large number had brought purses,which
were laid on a table by the side of her Royal
Highness, and the contents of which will form
a fund for the benefit of poorer nurses. This
fund has been specially instituted as a
memorial of the late Mr. J. S. Morgan, one of
thb founders of the pension movement. When
all the certificates had been given the nurses
and the rest of those present formed a circle
round the Royal party.

[Column 2]
	The PRINCE OF WALES then read the fol-
lowing speech:
	NURSES,-It has afforded the Princess and my.
self much pleasure to receive you here to day-
I understand that you come from nearly 150
hospitals, infirmaries, asylums, nursing and
other institutions in the United Kingdom, and
that many of you are working on your own ac-
count as private nurses. One here present has
come all the way from Gibraltar, and letters
and purses have been received from members
of the first 1,000 who are working as nurses in
Australia, Canada, Constantinople, Malta,
Egypt, the United States, France and Italy.
One nurse at the Citadel Hospital in Cairo
has sent an Egyptian purse containing £10,
and another has forwarded a purse from Natal.
All this shows that the pension fund for nurses
is rightly named national. What then is the
National Pension Fund for Nurses, and who
are the first 1,000 nurses? Three years ago
four of the leading merchants of the City of
London deposited £20,000 with the Court of
Chancery to enable the National Pension Fund
to be incorporated under the Insurance Com-
panies Act, with the necessary financial guar-
antees. These gentlemen set the whole nursing
body a lesson in thrift, by attaching to the de-
posit a condition that, unless 1,000 nurses in-
vested their savings in the pension fund be-
fore 1st of January, 1890, the £20,000 was to
be returned and the fund wound up. In less
than twelve months from the date that the
council began to issue policies—August, 1888
—1,000 were applied for, and the condition
was thus fulfilled. The four benefactors there
and then made a gift of £20,000 to the fund,
specially allocating £5,000 of it to be invested
at compound interest for the sole benefit of
the first 1,000 nurses who had by their thrift
and foresight secured so splendid a sum for the
benefit of the whole nursing body for ever.
The National Pension Fund has greatly pros-
pered since. Nurses continue to join it at an
average of ten a week. Other friends have
sent gifts to the Pension Bonus Fund, which
amounts to nearly £40,000, and the invested
funds to £67,000, the difference representing
the investment by nurses of their savings.
But the National Pension Fund has done more
than this. Heretofore, if a nurse fell ill or be-
came disabled through no fault of her own, her
position was often a very painful one, and
many nurses under such circumstances
formerly had no refuge but the workhouse.
The philanthropists who have founded the
pension fund have done much to prevent any
similar catastrophe befalling any nurse in the
future. All who join it will at once insure
safety for themselves and respect for the noble
calling to which they belong. Already several
have been saved from distress through its
agency.
	The Prince then referred to the great in-
terest taken in the fund by the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, and expressed his satisfaction that
several of the large hospitals—notably the
great London Hospital, Guy’s, St. Mary’s, and
King’s College Hospitals—as well as others
both in London and the country, have
become affiliated to the fund, and many pay
one-half of the necessary premiums to secure a
pension to the nurses in their employ.
	Mr. Walter A. Burns, chairman of the
council, and son-in-law to the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, then thanked his Royal Highness for
the tribute he had paid to the memory of that
gentleman.		Englishwoman's Review.


John O’Reilly, poet, and editor of the
Boston Pilot is dead.
	Another triumph for [the cause of woman's
freedom. The United States Senate Committee
on Woman Suffrage has made a favorable
report. All Republican Senators agreeing.


