			LETTER FROM LULA.

				Smithfield, Cache Co.,
							Aug. 25th, 1890.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Since the first week in June last, when I came 
to, and in this place for the summer, many things
have occurred here which would be of interest to
you. Had I been at liberty to write, whenever
“the spirit moved” me to do so, you would have
heard from me several times ere this. But it was
generally Monday, (such a busy day,) or Saturday
(the next, perhaps, in importance,) when I would
be impressed to take up my pen—just the time
when I could not.	
	Ah! which day, of all the seven, is not a busy
one for the mother of a young family whose heart
is in the work of rearing them to God’s service?
Even the blessed Sabbath, with all the hallowed,
peaceful, restful influences which belong to it and
make it ever welcome, ever holy, is so taken up
with interesting and instructing the pure young
minds entrusted to the mother's care, and for
whose early impressions she is to be held ac-
countable, that she finds little, or no time for read-
ing, writing or even thinking of anything which
cannot be done with them and for them.
	By the time all are ready for Sabbath School,
it is time to start; and the two meetings which
follow, during afternoon and evening, fill up the
day, outside of the time which must be spent in
caring for the family’s earthly needs.
	Last Sabbath,(yesterday) was one of the best I
ever spent. The Stake Superintendent of S. S.
was here—(excuse me a moment! one boy wants
his whip fastened to the stock, another wants his
hair trimmed in haste, and my girl wants my help
just now “what is to be done next" for the finish-
ing of her new gingham. I’ll come back after
while.)


All the religious services here yesterday,
tended towards that all absorbing, most important
subject, the reformation and proper education of
our children.
	I have already mentioned that our Stake Sun-
day School, Supt., Dr. O. C. Ormsby, paid our
ward a visit yesterday. Since my sojourn here,
we have also been favored with visits from the
Stake Presidency of the Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary Associations; showing that in this Stake,
the people, some of them at least, are alive and
able to work. Both associations above mentioned
and also the Relief Society in this settlement, are
doing excellently; although their meetings are
not largely attended, yet those members who do
attend, manifest their willingness to assist in,
and their devotion to the cause of truth.
	Before long, I hope to be able to write again,
and to say something of the Woman Suffrage
work in this portion of the great world which is
to be regenerated.
			With kindest love, 
