WYOMING’S DAY.

	Judge Melville C. Brown made an eloquent
address in presenting the constitution of
Wyoming to Mrs. Post, the president of the
Wyoming Woman Suffrage Association. His
closing remarks were as follows:
	“Look again. Far out across the Great
American desert, and beneath the shades of
the grand old Rockies, there springs into ex-
istence a new state, and the watchwords of its
people are, “Justice, Equality” to this new
state. Under the guidance of the Great
Jehovah it is permitted to achieve the highest
excellence in government yet attained by man.
Here, unmoved by selfishness, the dangers of
war or the appeals of non-resident reformers,
but moved alone by the spirit of divine justice,
it was ordained by the people of Wyoming


[Column 1]
﻿that each citizen of the state should enjoy the
same right guaranteed to every other citizen,
whether high or low, black or white, male or
female. 
	And now, Mrs. Post, I have the distinguished
honor to place in your hands, and you, as a
representative woman of Wyoming, the grand
privilege of receiving, this broadest guarantee
of civil liberty ever established by the genius
of man—the Magna Charta of our liberties—
the constitution of the state of Wyoming.
	From this Nebo of history we look forward
with the milk and honey of prosperity and
happiness for woman depends solely upon her-
self.
	With these new privileges come new duties
and responsibilities. “Act well your part,
there all the honor lies.” Your past furnishes
the highest guarantee for the future. If you
live up to the full measure of your high privi-
leges, you will not only bring happiness to the
new state, but joy to the hearts of the noble
women of other states who are struggling for
the repeal of unequal and unjust laws. Not
only this, but your example aud success will
bring emancipation to the women of the
world.”
MRS. AMELIA B. POST RESPONDED:
	Mr. President, and gentlemen of the Wyo-
ming Constitutional Convention: In the name
of the women of Wyoming I thank you for
this copy of our state constitution, and in their
name also do I especially thank you for that
clause in this constitution which guarantees
their enfranchisement. In the history of the
world it has seldom been the good fortune of
a body of lawmakers to be able to inaugurate
at one stroke a movement in the interest of
human rights and human liberties as important,
as far reaching, as grand as this. And in the
name of the women of the civilized world I am
here to congratulate you upon the able, fear-
less and disinterested manner in which you
have discharged your duties as a constitutional
convention.
	This grand result of your labors—woman’s
magna charta—has now been before the civi-
lized world about eight months. It has at-
tracted wide attention and has been subjected
to the keenest possible criticism. By narrow-
minded people, cranks and bigots it has been
universally condemned. By intelligent, broad-
minded people, by the friends of human pro-
gress, by the advocates of universal liberty, it
has been universally commended. As a means
of assisting Wyoming to become one of the
stars in the grand galaxy of liberty it has been
a most helpful document.
	On some of the important questions of policy
that came before your honorable body during
the progress of your deliberations, there were
honest differences of opinion among you, but
when it came to the most important question
of all—the enfranchisement of women, there
were no differences of opinion, there was no
dissenting voice. You have shown the world
that as representative men of Wyoming you
have the courage of your convictions, and that
you are neither afraid nor ashamed to allow
women all the rights and privileges unre-
stricted of American citizens.
	An ancient philosopher of the orient has
said: “The veiled slaves of the harem can
never become the mothers of a great race of
men, but if you would produce a race of great
men you must first have a race of great wo-
men, both as to body and mind.”
	This is the true doctrine.  The history of the
world has demonstrated its truthfulness in
scores of instances. Elevate the standard of
womanhood! For there is no surer way by
which to elevate the standard of manhood.
This is to-day the most important question in-
volved in the future attainment of the highest
plan of human civilization.
[Column 2]
	In framing this constitution, gentlemen of
the convention, you have taken a most im-
portant step, lookiug to the elevation of the
human race. And may each and all of you
live long to enjoy the honorable distinction this
shall surely bring you.
	And now, Mr. President and gentlemen of
the convention, allow me in the name of the
women of Wyoming—in the name of the wo-
men of the civilized world—in the name of
human progress—in the name of Christian
civilization—in name of that grand advanc-
ing column, the cohorts of universal liberty,
again to thank you for this most precious
memorial.
	The great event of the day was the presenta-
tion of the State flag by the ladies of Wyoming
which followed Mrs. Jenkins address. It was
presented by Mrs. Esther Morris the “mother”
of the woman suffrage movement in the state.
Gathering the folds of the flag about her she
said:
	“On behalf of the women of Wyoming, and
in grateful recognition of the high privilege of
citizenship that has been conferred upon us, I
have the honor to present to the state of Wyo-
ming this beautiful flag. May it always re-
main the emblem of our liberties, ‘and the
flag of the union forever.’ ”
	Governor Warren on receiving the flag from
Mrs. Morris, grasping its staff, responded as fol-
lows.
	“It is with feelings of profound gratitude that
I receive for the state of Wyoming this beauti-
ful flag.
	It is seldom permitted man to stand a repre-
sentative for his commonwealth at the time of
its organization and during the period of its
transition from a condition of territorial de-
pendence to one of state independence. And
it has never before, I believe, been vouchsafed,
man to represent a state as its executive officer
on so auspicious an occasion as this.
	Here, in the open air, near the crest of the
continent, Wyoming, forming the keystone of
the arch of states extending from ocean to
ocean, celebrates an event significant in the ex-
treme, new in the history of our country, and
without precedent in the world; that is to say,
a state, in adopting its constitution, extends
free and equal suffrage to its citizens regard-
less of sex.
	Wyoming, in her progress, has not forgotten
the hands and hearts that have helped advance
her to her high position; and, in the adoption
of her constitution, equal suffrage is en-
trenched so securely that, it is believed, it will
stand forever.
	In this regard Wyoming is not less elevated
in her high and proud geographical position,
than in her example to her surrounding sister
states.
	The figures—44—representing the number
of our star on the dear old flag, the handsomest
and best beloved national emblem in the civi-
lized world—will always stand with us for
justice and equal right.
	Women of Wyoming, you have builded well
in your past efforts and conduct; and the men
of Wyoming extend heartiest greetings at this
time. They congratulate you upon your
achievments, and ask you to join them in the
future, as in the past, in securing good govern-
ment for our commonwealth. Your influence
has always tended toward higher development
and culture. And now in the near future,
when called upon to exercise your rights and
your privileges in the election of your officers,
who must be both your rulers and your ser-
vants, we have confidence that you will sub-
scribe to everything that is elevating and en-
terprising—a pure ballot—the highest moral
standing and the strictest personal responsibil-
ity in public officers—liberal educational
[Column 3]
facilities, and with all an economical and wise
financial policy and management.
	Ladies, for and on the part of the great
state of Wyoming, I thank you most sincerely
for this beautiful stand of colors. And I beg
to assure you it shall be cherished and pro-
tected as a souvenir of priceless value.”
					Thk Woman’s Tribune.


