EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Quarterly Conference of
Weber Stake will be held in Ogden City on
Thuursday the 11 of September. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the county and all those interested in these be-
nevolent organizations are cordially invited to be
present and participate in the preceedings.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held in Mayfield,Friday
and Saturday Sept. 19 and 20, 1890. Meeting
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the country. The Presidency of the Stake,
Bishops and brethren are cordially invited to at-
tend.
	We acknowledge wtih many thanks the receipt
of a very polite invitation to attend the dedicatory
services of the Agricultural College just about to
be established and dedicated in Logan. The pro-
gramme of exercises is very impressive and it is
greatly to be hoped that the training of the child-
ren in future years will be as satisfactory as our
most sanguine hopes and desires could antici-
pate.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake will convene in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Thursday Sept. 11. The
Presidency of the Stake Bishops and others are
respectfully invited to attend. Meetings will
commence at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. conference will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Friday Sept. 12, and the Primary
Associations Saturday Sept. 13. A full attend-
ance from all parts of the country is most de-
sirable.
	The Secretary of the Relief Society of each
Stake of Zion is hereby respectfully and earnestly
solicited, to prepare and forward a semi-annual
report at as early a date as possible, in order that
a full and complete annual report may be in readi-
ness to hand over at least ten days before Con-
ference. In order to do this Stake reports should
be in as early as the middle of September. Ad-
dress them to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Second
North and First West Sts., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	There will be a convention of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association held in this City, early in
October, and it is expected that each Association
will send a report previous to that time, to the
General President, or Secretary so that there will
be a perfect understanding of what has been done
in the interest of suffrage in this Territory. It is
hoped there will be no delay in forwarding these
reports direct to Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President
W. S. A. of Utah, No. 74 Cor. First South and
First West Sts. or to Miss Rachel Edwards,
Secretary No. 29 N. West Temple Street.


