			MALAD STAKE.
	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ninth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Malad Stake of Zion met
at Portage according to appointment Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins presiding. On the stand of
the Stake Officers were Pres. Oliver C. Hoskins
and Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs, Patriarch John D.
Gibbs, Bishop E. Harris and several leading
brethren of the Stake.
	After the usual exercises the minutes of the
last Conference were read and approved.
Stake Report read and and accepted, after
which Pres L. Hoskins called for reports from
the different branches. The Portage was re-
ported by Pres Jane A Harris; Muddy Creek
Pres. Rosanah Howell; Cherry Creek, Pres.
Eliza H. Chivers: Washakie, Pres. Elizabeth
J. Zundel; Malad City, Secretary Elizabeth
Jenkins; Samaria,Pres. Mary D. Davis; each
showing that the Society under her care was
in a prosperous condition.
	Coun. Elizabeth Zundel spoke in an interest-
ing and instructive manner concerning our
every day duties; she was followed by Coun.
Mary Stewart who spoke on the subjects of
obedience and prayer; the Choir sang an
anthem. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.

	Afternoon Session; Meeting opened by
singing and prayer, the sacrament was
administered by High Counselors, Wm.
Sinclair Sen., and Miles Hall. The roll was
then called showing a fair attendance of
officers.
	Lucinda Hoskins was then sustained as
Pres. of the Relief Society of the Malad Stake
of Zion, with Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel first
and Sister Mary Stewart second Coun. Eliza
A. Hall Sec.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins spoke of the necessity
of the sisters storing grain, and looking after
the poor and the sick and all those that need a
kind word to always be on hand to give it, and
improve every opportunity of doing good; said
we should always set a good example and
practice the Golden rule gave good advice and
instruction on several different subjects.
	Pres; O. C. Hoskins said that the sisters had 
been blessed with the spirit of the Lord during
the Conference. Spoke of the great work the
Relief Society was performing wherever they
had been organized in all its many hundred
branches, exhorted us to put away vanity aud
pride and live pure and humble before the
the Lord and we would continue to be blessed.
	The Choir sang “Though in the outward
Church.” Benediction by Wm. Sinclair Sen;
