WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	AN ANSWER TO THE ARTICLE
ENTITLED “WOMAN’S CALLING.”
	When God had finished the earth in all its
glory with all things useful, beautiful. and
pleasing unto man, and gave man dominion
over the same, yet was man alone, and for
Adam there was not found a helpmate and
God said it is not good that the man should be
alone. So Eve was given unto Adam to be a
helpmate. That was Woman’s first Mission.
And it seems that she was given the first
power to tempt man for good or evil and she
used her influence in persuading him to partake
of that which had been forbidden them, if
Eve had so much influence over her
companion, should we not be careful how we
use our influence over our companions, and
associates by whom we are surrounded daily,
for are we not all daughters of Eve, and just
as apt to close our ears, as it were against the
commands that are sometimes given, but alas!
slippery is the way which we sometimes tread,
and if we do slip we are not alone, but some
associate goes with us.
	Woman’s Mission should be to use that
influence which has been given her for a higher
and better purpose and we are pleased to re-
late circumstances wherein she has used that
influence to some of the highest and noblest
purposes on Earth. It can even be said of
women as of men, “Some are born great, some
achieve greatness, and some have greatness
thrust upon them: ("Shakspere,”) Some have
even laid down their lives for love of their
Country and people. We might trace the
History of the World through and find in all
ages that Woman (though not so popular as
Man,) has bravely fought her fight and now
we live to see the day already dawned, when
she will be raised from her lower platform
and placed on an equal footing with Man to
enjoy “Political equality” which means “Civil

[Column 2]
social and and religious liberty" her abilities
need no longer be crushed for she can even now
lend a helping hand to all mankind.
	But let us reflect back a little upon her
past God knows with what angelic patience
she has borne her rebuke, even when He said
"He would greatly multiply her sorrow and
conception."  But as that sorrow was fore-
ordained we can see how vast, how mighty!
yet how glorious are the works of God in
using His children as instruments in bringing
about redemption.
	Grand design! we are all more or less
acquainted with the short sketches of the
Women of the Bible, with what meekness of
heart they bore their sorrow and lo! what a
day of rejoicing it must have been when the
Savior was promised.  When God should find
a woman holy and pure enough, to be the
means of bringing a Savior into the world to
redeem mankind from the effects of the first
fall. And when He was born she followed
Him through bis wauderings, anointing and
bathing His feet by the wayside, and being
last at the cross, and first at the sepulchre,
and do we not find many women doing the
same to-day, even in the world; and amongst
our own people they are erecting many noble
Institutions for the poor and distressed,clothing
the naked, feeding the hungry, teaching the
unlearned and trying to check the downward
course of intemperance among mankind.
Verily they have their reward, for Jesus said
“he that giveth unto one of these a cup of
water in my name, doeth the same unto me,”
then we have the beautiful example of our
Sainted Mothers, how eagerly they
accepted the same Christ; how willingly
they laid their all upon the altar of sacrifice,
and embraced His Holy Truths struggling on
through all manner of trials, but happy in
the thought of knowing that “Whom God 
loveth He chasteneth.”
	Ah! my sisters, how do we hold these sacred
things, do we remember how dearly they are
paid for, and that our spirits have been re-
served and born heirs to all the  blessings we
now enjoy even the Spirit and light of God,
then how great must be our mission.  Should
we not stretch forth a hand to stay the fallen
one, and to watch ourselves closely, lest we be
drawn into the slippery snare.  Yes for we
have all we can do, though our lives be of the
humblest nature, to guard ourselves day by
day to use our influence for only pure and en-
nobling purposes, that we might be able to
retain our guardain angel,and gain the respect
and love of all good people. for God our Father
in heaven is Love," that our light might not
be put under a bushel but set upon a hill where
all nations can see and partake of the same
light we enjoy,and men shall say, “Come, let
us go up to the Mountain of the Lord for He
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
His paths, and righteousness will cover the
Earth as the waters cover the sea.
					MARY ANDERSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


