JOHN HOWARD PAYNE.

Life of the Author of "Home, Sweet Home."
	The music of the future may be enriched
by the products of men of more genius, learn-
ing, and wisdom than those of to-day, but it is
safe to say that so long as the world stands
there will never again be produced a song that
will so universally touch the human heart as
"Home, Sweet Home." While the ballad has
ever been one of which the most critical audi-
ence never weary, and its simple but touching
sentiments have endeared the author of all
home lovers throughout the world, probably
many are unaware that it is a song from an
opera entitled "Carl" composed by John
Howard Payne. The most notable rendition
of "Home, Sweet Home," of which there is any
account, was probably at the Jenny Lind con-
cert in Washington, on the night of December
17, 1850. John Howard Payne was present,
and the quarter of an hour during which he
listened to Jenny Lind's singing of this ballad
—which has since been heard in all lands—
was without doubt the most thrilling fifteen
minutes of his life. The theater was thronged
by an assembly which was perhaps the most
distinguished ever gathered in any concert hall
in this country. President Fillmore, Daniel
Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and 
Payne were among the celebrities present. The
"Swedish Nightingale" was in perfect voice,
and her rendition of each part of the programme
elicited most enthusiastic applause from the 
vast audience. When, however, in answer to
the encore, Jenny Lind turned toward John
Howard Payne and gave "Home, Sweet Home"
with all the tenderness and purity of feeling
embodied in the words and air perfectly in-
terpreted through the medium of her wonder-
ful voice, there were few present who could
fail to see the difference between the plaudits
called out by a mere display of fine vocali-
zation and those accorded to a power which
thrilled their very hearts. They were enthusi-
astic before the first line of the song was
finished, and to such an extent that they could
scarcely wait for a pause in which to give vent
to their feelings. Then it seemed as if the up-
roar would never cease. Persons known to be
of most undemonstrative character shouted,
clapped, and stamped as if their senses had de-
parted. During this ovation the eyes of the
entire audience were upon Payne—an under-
sized, gray-haired man, of gentlemanly bear-
ing, who was covered with confusiou at find-
ing himself the center of attraction in that
vast assembly.
	Payne’s early history is still involved in
obscurity, but it is certain that his childhood
was passed at East Hampton, the most easterly
town of Long island. His father was principal
of the Clinton academy, one of the first insti-
tutions of its kind established on Long Island.
The village consists of only one wide street,
where the residences are chiefly farmers'
houses, with farms stretching to the ocean
shore on one side and to pine plains on the
other.
	When Payne was seventeen years of age he
established in New York city a weekly paper
called the Thespian Mirror. His first appearance
on the stage was at Park theater, New York, 
in the character of Young Norval.
	After professional visits to Boston and other
cities lie went to London and made a success.


ful debut in the same character at Drury Lane.
He is described at this time as being as beauti-
ful in person as he was remarkable in intellect.
After leaving London he visited Paris, where
he passed his time in writing the following
dramas; “Brutus,” “Therese; or, the Orphan
of Genoa,” and “Clare; or, the Maid of Milan,”
in which he included the song upon which the
author’s fame is founded.
	In a number of the Home Journal, published
many years since, were two verses of "Home, 
Sweet Home" that do not accompany the usual
version, and they are here reproduced:

Tell us, in despite of the absence of years,
How sweet the remembrance of home still appears;
Form allurements abroad, which but flatter the eye,
The unsatisfied heart turns and says with a sigh,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There’s no place like home!
		There’s no place like home!

Your exile is blessed with all fate can bestow,
But mine has been checkered with many a woe!
Yet, though different our fortunes, our thoughts are the
	same,
And both, as we think of Columbia, exclaim,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There's no place like home!
		There's no place like home!

	In regard to the above verses the corres-
pondent who sent them to the Journal says:
"In winter of 1833 or 1834 I was dining
with an American lady, the wife of an eminent
banker. During my visit Mr. Payne called
and presented her with a copy of 'Home,
Sweet Home,' set to music, with two additional
verses addressed to her, and these she allowed
me to copy, and I enclose them to you to print."
	The irony of fate is aptly evidenced in the
sad death and burial in a strange land across
the ocean of a man whose love for home and
his native land gave to the world the touching
ballad that will immortalize his name for ages 
to come.
	The poet of home was buried in a foreign
land, and the body rested there for thirty
years, until it was brought to America. The
remains arrived in New York, March 23, 1863,
and lay in state in the governor's room in the
city hall until the following day. The body
was then taken to Washington and given in
charge of the authorities of Oak Hill cemetery,
The final interment took place June 9th, the
ninety-first anniversary of the poet's birth.
The burial place was chosen by W. W. Cor-
coran, and is on the crest of a hill which
slopes down into the valley of Rock creek
Mr. Corcoran selected R. S. Chilton who wrote
the inscription for the monument at Tunis, as
the poet for the memorial service, and since
that time the remains of John Howard Payne
have peacefully reposed in his native land. 
	After the removal of Payne's body from the
tomb at Tunis the vacant grave was covered
with marble slabs, upon which were inscribed:
	Sure, when thy gentle spirit fled
		To realms above the azure dome,
	With outstretched hands God's angel said,
		"Welcome to heaven's 'Home, Sweet Home.'"
								Hearth and Hall.


