WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	To women working in lines of missionary
effort the first two days of the Triennial
of the National Council of Women at


Washington, D. C. will be of great interest.
	On the evening of the 18th of February
the time will be divided between the Wo-
man’s Foreign Missionary Union of Friends
and the National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society. This latter organiza-
tion is one of the very oldest of women’s
societies, having been organized in 1843.
It will be represented upon this occasion by
two of its ablest workers and speakers.—
Mrs. Frances Stewart Mosher upon “The
Ethical Adjustment of Woman’s Home and
Sociological Duties” and Mrs. Emeline
Burlingame Cheney upon Practical Christian
Living.”
	Mrs. Eliza C. Armstrong, who will speak
upon “The Relation of Religion to Public
Duties” is known among the Friends as one
of their very best speakers.
	Tuesday evening, February 19, will be
occupied by the Woman’s Centenary As-
sociation of the Universalist Church and by
the National Council of Jewish Women.
The Centenary is many years old, the
Council of Jewish Women is an outgrowth
of the World’s Congress of Representative
Women of the Exposition year.
	Rev. Lorenza Haynes (Universalist) will
give an address on “The Relation of Re-
ligion to Public Duties,” and “The Exact
Attitude of each of the Leading Religious
Denominations toward Woman’s Growing
Service in the Church" will be treated by a
speaker not yet decided upon.
	Some fine subjects are upon that part of
the program occupied by the Jewish Coun-
cil, namely “Social Obligations of Re-
ligions” by Miss Sadie American, Cor-
responding Secretary of the Council of
Jewish Women; “The Function of Women
in Religious Life” and “Greek and Hebrew
Genius-Influeuce on Christianity and
Civilization” by speakers whose names are
not yet announced.
	The Morning Sessions of these two days
will be equally interesting, the first being
given to the Formal Opening of the National
Council Triennial, Presentation of Delegates,
and Greetings of Fraternal Delegates from
associations not in membership in the Coun-
cil. Tuesday Morning will begin the ses-
sions in which the time will be largely given
to free discussion by the Members of the
Triennial, each subject for discussion being
presented formally in half hour address by a
specially invited speaker. The topics of
Tuesday are “The Influence of Women in
Bringing Religious Conviction to bear upon
Daily Life” presented by Mrs. Minnie D.
Louis, who spoke so acceptably at the
World’s Congress of Representative Wo-
men, and “Woman’s Mission to the Church
as Minister and Missionary” by Mrs. Eliza
C. Armstrong. Each of these topics will
be discussed for one hour, exclusive of the
time occupied by the main addresses
mentioned.
