WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MACBETH.
	[From a psychological standpoint.]
	MACBETH—What unholy scenes, hor-
rifying thoughts, and ghastly spectacles are
presented to the mind by that one word.
	Imagination immediately produces the
weird scene of the witches, their fantastic
appearance as they whirl and gesticulate
around the seething caldron with its grue-
some contents; and in the presence of this
picture we can almost sense the fascination,
and feel the unhallowed influence of those
handmaids of the powers of darkness—
“those fiends who lie like truth.” From 
pure sympathy, we almost cease to wonder
that the superstitious Macbeth is for a
moment captivated by their strange in-
cantations.
	Then like a flash we are transported to 
the interior of the castle, we feel the excite-
ment which animates its little colony of in-
habitants, as the gracious word is received
and repeated from one to another. “The
King comes here to night!” For though
we had known the king only up to this
point, he had found favor in our sight, and
we feel that his most lordly subject might
be honored by this mark of trust and
friendliness.
	Now we are at the banquet and note the
suave manner, the very apparent courtesy
and thoughtfulness, extended towards the
king by his charming hostess and her lord.
We know what is in her mind since the
receipt of that peace disturbing letter from
Macbeth, and now follow him, as he seeks
an exit from the guest chamber, to
silently witness his escaping thoughts and
feeling. We are in a state of suspense as
we watch the workings of that mind.
Note the pros, and cons, the resolutions and
the dread, the superstitious faith, the honor-
able fear, as each is marshalled in full force
to try its power upon that mind. We hear
the pleading cry of kinship—the voice of
treachery—the whisperings of loyalty—
the tempting persuasion of ambition that
would force away to the throne. As in turn
each clamors for hearing and recognition.
	Towards the latter part of this intense
mental conflict our suspense is somewhat
relaxed. We believe that the better power
will secure the victory: and are about to
exclaim, hail! Thane of Cawdor! Greater
than a king! When Lady Macbeth enters,
throws discredit on the conquering hero,
while with a re-enforcment of evil agents
she begins the attack anew. And, though
Macbeth with dignity and seeming self as-
sertion meets her with, “We will proceed
no farther in this business, he hath honored
me of late, and I have bought golden
opinions of all sorts of people which would
be worn now in their nervest gloss, not
cast aside so soon.” Yet we feel that a
master spirit has taken posession, and the 
forces of the better part will be scattered, to
the four winds. The more powerful will of
Lady Macbeth has downed all argument,
has over come the weaker determination of
her lord. He now becomes but an irresolute
servant, waiting the command of her in-
domitable spirit.
	Ah! faltering Macbeth! Thou couldst
withstand the enticing voice of ambition,
the gilded allurings of that coveted pinnacle
of power. Thou couldst bid thy super-
stitious faith await a less speedy, a more
natural fulfillment; yet thou couldst not for
a moment brook the taunting tones of thy
wife.

[Column 2]
O! Woman! frail and accounted naught
in the marshalled ranks of politics and state;
truly thy power is behind the throne; and
thy responsibility is uncomputed, for the
deeds done by men.
	Our guide, imagination, now leads us to
the king’s chamber. How peacefully, how
trustfully he slumbers. His grooms, or
body guard, lying not far removed, are
stupefied and over come by wine; yet the
king is unconcerned for his person. He is
in the house of a friend, a kinsman, a
loyal subject.
		“Now over the one half world
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
The curtained sleep:—witchcraft celebrate
Pale Hecates offering, and withered murder
Alarumed by his sentinel, the wolf, 
Whose howls his watch, thus with his stealthy
	pace,
With Tarquin’s ravishing strides, towards his
	design
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm set
	earth,
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Thy very stones prate of my whereabouts,
And take the present horror from the time
Which now suits with it.”
	Macbeth enters, wearing a pale and
frightened look, as if he had just seen an
apparition. There is a nervous anxiety in
his movements, as if he were impelled by
an outward, rather than an inward force.
He siezes a dagger lying near by, and with
stealthy though trembling steps approaches
the couch of the king. His hand is palsied
by the thought of the dreadfulness of the
deed, augmented by the solemn weirdness
of the hour. But, the deed must be done,
there is now no retreating. He grasps the
deadly weapon with a firmer hold, and,
with a mighty effort throws off those guilty
fears, "Screws his courage to the sticking
point,” and with averted gaze, swiftly sends
the messenger of death to that trusting
heart.
	He is horrified at the ghastliness of the
spectacle, and an almost overpowering
sense of the ruin he has wrought is borne in
upon him. All sorts of ghostly fancies
crowd upon his fevered imagination, as he
stands half paralyzed, with the bloody dag-
ger in his hand. He hears the sleepers
laugh and cry murder; anon, they say their
prayers and pronounce amen, which he es-
saying cannot repeat. He becomes pain-
fully alert to every sound; even the screech
of the owl, the chirp of the cricket, his own
wife’s voice strikes terror to his guilty soul.
Anon he joins his wife, and still not wholly
reconciled to the deed, he wrings his gory
hands and says, “This is a sorry sight.”
Still in half frenzied dread, remorse,
imagination, he goes on repeating what he
fancied he heard a voice cry, “Sleep no
more!”
“Macbeth does murder sleep—the innocent sleep;
Sleep that knits up the raveled sleeve of care,
The death of each day’s life, sore labors bath.
Balm of hurt minds, great nature’s second course,
Chief nourisher in life’s feast.
Still it cried sleep no more! to all the house
Glamis hath murdered sleep; and therefore
	Cawdor
Shall sleep no more—Macbeth shall sleep no
	more!”
	O wretched mortal doomed to everlasting
torment by thine own act. That was a
wail from  the depths of hell! such as
might have been heard from the fallen
spirits, who, being cast down from heaven,
realized to the utmost the denseness of the
darkness to which they were consigned.
	O pitiful! pitiful! that weeping, and wail-
ing, and gnashing of teeth.

[Column 3]
“What hands are here! Ha! they pluck out mine
eyes!
Will all great Neptune’s Ocean wash this blood
Clean from my hand? No: this my hand will
	rather
The multitudinous seas incarnardine.
Making the green one red.”

	Note how that continuous knocking
startles him—blanches his cheek—and al-
most freezes up the flowing current of his
veins.

“To know my deed ’twere best not know myself
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! Ay. ’would
	thou couldst!’’

Good night! Adieu! remorseful spirit,
tomorrow’s sun will shine, upon an
adamantine soul, in place of thine!
	The night has sped, the mental conflict
has abated; remorse is silenced and cruelty
has usurped the throne of judgment.
	In this wise the intellect has reasoned.
The deed is done and cannot be undone.
Now to the removing of all obstacles that
may threaten, or obstruct the passage to the
throne. Down feeling! Up! will and intel-
lect!  “The eternal Jewel” is irrecoverably
lost, all is over with that, ambition now
holds undisputed sway, life is all that is
left. Fill up the chalice of power! Take
pleasure in the downfall of all who loathe
thee! Trample on the necks of all who
would oppose thee! Thy time is short,
but the witches have promised it shall be
full.
	Again, O Macbeth! like the fallen angels,
having made a hell for thyself, thou must
bend all thy energies to bring a like con-
dition on all who may be in thy power.
	The distardly deed is discovered, the
house-hold is thrown into confusion, all are
horrified and astounded. Macbeth and his
lady not a whit behind the rest in demon-
strations of grief. Indeed, he freely con-
fesses that his love for the king and great
sorrow at his taking off, compelled him in
the heat of passion to stab the two grooms
who he suspected had done the deed.
	The day moves on—He has now become
bold—He is king, and even his dauntless
wife would not now taunt him with the
paleness of his heart, did she peep into that
mind and note the resolutions there.
	Yet—Banquo is in the way; he has known
Macbeth’s ambition, he may suspect the
truth, besides, the witches hailed him
“father to a line of kings;”  He must be
dispatched, and that at once.  “Banquo,
thy souls flight, if it find heaven, must
find it out to night.”
	The feast is spread, the thanes are
gathered round, and the king speaks his re-
grets at the absence of Banquo: when up
rises the ghost of the missing thane and
sits in his murderer’s chair.
	Now note the terror! The freezeing fear
that assails him, even while he protests his
innocence. Note his assumed bravado,
his palsied attempts at threatening, but now
no sign of remorse. He fears no mortal,
he is not to be undone by any born of wo-
man. Ay, he is a bold man! “who dare
look on that which might appal the devil,”
yet this has undone him.
	The scene is changed. Malcolm and
Donalbain are scattered—Banquo is dis-
patched, and Macduff’s mission to England
has received due revenge in the slaughter
of his wife and babes, the confiscation of
his lands. Yet
"Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
Do breed unnatural troubles;”


[column 1]
And, seated with the attainments of his 
ambitious ends, the king soliloquises thus:

	I have liv’d long enough: my way of life 
Is fall’n into the sear—the yellow leaf;
And that which should accompany old age
As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
I must not look to have; but in their stead
Curses, not loud, but deep; mouth honor, breath,
Which the poor would fain deny, but dare not,”

	Can we detect in this an undertone of re-
gret, a sigh for a misspent life—perverted
abilities? We might almost so interpret it.
Yet to all about him such weakness is un-
revealed: shelled in by a stern and unre-
lenting bearing.
	Word has just been brought, that the
English forces are nearing the castle. He
cannot doubt the purport of their visit; and 
has every reason to believe that the out- 
raged Scotts will need no urging to join
them against him. Yet his fears take
refuge behind the promise of the weird
sisters.

"Macbeth shall never vanquished be, until
Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
Shall come against him”
He determines to prove the firm founda-
 
tion of his faith in this promise, he calls his
retainers to arms to scour the country round,
and demanding his armour, says,
	I’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be
hacked,” calamities now come thick and
fast. Lady Macbeth is dead; and lo! Great
Birnman Wood moves towards Dunsinane,
	The thwarted spirit is almost undone, the
ill-gained power is well nigh broken. Yet
there is one more straw, to which the
drowning Macbeth clings.

"No man that’s born of woman shall e’er have
	power on thee.’’

	Again, the scene is changed, Macbeth is
captured, but still clings to the straw.
Young Siward has been slain in the hand
to hand conflict with him; and now
Macduff confronts him. Their eyes meet,
while before Macbeth, appears that cruel
picture, the murdered wife and babes. Ah!
well may he tremble and his courage for-
sake him at such a bloody sight.
"Get ye back,” he cries, ‘My soul is too much
Charged with blood of thine already! ’
Hear you that deep wail of remorse?
That cry of regret from the depths of a lost
soul?
	It is not fear that robs him of his wonted
valor, that disarms him in the presence of
this man. ’Tis his long outraged conscience
which reasserts a momentary power.
	Macduff’s soul burns for vengeance, he
longs to test his trusty sword upon this foul
despoiler of his happiness, and only scouts
this tardy penitence, even if he understands
it, and turns to taunt him with his coward-
ice.
	Stung by this taunt, Macbeth assumes his
leading roll—again takes refuge behind the
imagined charm upon his life. But being
speedily disenchanted by his eager antagonist
he finds all too late,
‘‘That juggling fiends are not to be believed,
That palter with us in a double sense
That keep the word of promise to our ear
And break it to our hope”
	He has no heart to fight with the much
injured Macduff; but he will not become a
willing subject for the jeers of the rabble he
has ruled.
	That brief moment of remorse is past—
and he has lost the last vestige of the faith
to which he clung, yet his challenged spirit
is again aroused—-
[column 2]
			“Lay on Macduff,
And damned be him who first cries, Hold!
	Enough!”
