CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, October 4th,
commencing at 10 a. m, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, the president of this great organiza-
tion, presiding. The attendance was large
from the outside stakes, and the reports were
excellent, showing marked improvement in
many directions, and increased interest in
the work of this benevolent society.
	The president made an appropriate and
motherly address of welcome, congratulat-
ing the sisters upon the prospeity that had
attended their labors in the past and the
hopeful outlook for the future. Referred to
the prophecies of Joseph Smith concerning
the society at its first organization, and that
many of his prophetic sayings at that time,
had already been fulfilled.
	Mrs. Ann G. Woodbury, in reporting St.
George Stake, made special mention of
sericulture, and the success this industry
might have in that locality if the people
would persevere in the enterprise. Sister
Hannah C. Bentley had raised this year 212
pounds of cocoons of good quality, and the
speaker felt that others could succeed as
well with the same energy and diligence,
for much had been done in past years, with
very little encouragement.
	Mrs. Ann Pulsipher gave a very satis-
factory report of the branches in Emery
Stake and said though they had not tried to
raise silk, they were exerting themselves to
establish a small woolen factory.
	Mrs. Mary Teasdale gave a most in-
teresting account of the sisters in Mexico,
they have six branches in that country, and
many difficulties to encounter unknown to
to us who live in the United States; they
are doing primitive work in carding and
spinning, and one ward is trying to make
some cloth, and another is engaged in dairy
work.
	The native sisters require much teaching
and the language has to be learned in order
to give them the necessary information, and
all this requires great patience aud persever-
ance, and one must have the desire to do
good to others to accomplish much towards
lifting them to a higher moral and spiritual
standard.
	Juab Stake was reported by Mrs. Rebecca
Udall, as the president, Mrs. Mary Pitcli-
forth, was not well enough to attend the
conference. Mrs. Udall bore a strong
testimony of the truth of the Gospel; said
she had joined the Church in France, her
native country, when only thirteen years
old upon her own responsibility, and like
many others she had left all for the Gospel’s
sake and rejoiced to be one among this
people.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow gave an excel-
lent report of Sanpete Stake and of the
diligence of the sisters in all the various
labors pertaining to the society, but especial-
ly in the efforts made to store up grain
against a day of famine.
	Mrs. Angeline Hinckely gave a pleasing
account of Millard Stake and Mrs. Ann E.
Leavitt, of Maricopa, Arizona, mentioned
the good work among the Lamanite sisters
in Papago ward, and that the Relief Society
had purchased a buggy and harness for the
president, who had for twelve years labored
almost constantly among these Indian sis-
ters; she also told of the Relief Society hall
built at Mesa City by the untiring energy

[Column 2]
of this noble band of members in that re-
mote locality; how the Lord had blessed
them in this, and that they were even stor-
ing some grain though it was really not a
grain country. What they have laid up is
sealed up in five gallon tin cans for that is
the only way it can be kept in that climate,
the speaker stated she had come 1,600 miles
to attend Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg, in reporting Box
Elder Stake, made mention of the Scandina-
vian branch of the Relief Society in Brig-
ham City and the good work the sisters had
done in emigrating from Scandinavia fifty-
two persons. The reports from all the
Stakes were certainly encouraging and al-
most all were desirous of helping forward
home enterprises of various kinds. The
general teaching was in the line of home
work such as silk raising, straw braiding
and helping in whatever possible to advance
the prosperity of home manufactures and
institutions. The actual work the Relief
Society has accomplished as a whole is not
realized by those who are not familiar with
the details, and the many obstacles that
the sisters have to encounter especially in
localities remote from headquarters.
	It is impossible to mention all in a brief
notice but the objects and aims of the
Society being similar throughout, one can
judge of the work from the report of a few
of the Stakes; it was quite impossible even
though the speakers were brief to hear
from all though there were three sessions of
the Conference.
	The afternoon meeting was much more
numerously attended than the morning and
most of the time given to reports from far
off Stakes, which were very interesting; be-
sides the charitable and philanthropic work
demonstrated by the reports of the sisters,
it is noticeable that there is also a spiritual
growth and progress which is very gratify-
ing and without which the sisters could not
labor as they do for the uplifting of human-
ty.  At the close of the afternoon session
Sister M. Isabella Horne spoke in the gift
of tongues, the interpretation was given by
President Zina D. H. Young, the effect was
thrilling throughout the assembly, and the
meeting closed by singing that telling
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” which was in itself like a bene-
diction from on high.
	There was also an evening session similar
in character to the other meetings though a
little more time was devoted to general in-
struction from the president. Much regret
was expressed for the absence of Counselors
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith,
who were not able to attend. Sister Rich-
ards on account of the illness of her sister,
and Sister Smith because of having had a
fall recently, which obliged her to remain at
home for the present, though the injury is
not serious. The spirit of the conference
throughout was excellent and must result
in great good to those who are engaged in
work of this great benevolent society which
is spreading its branches all around the world
and upon the islands of the sea, wherever
the Gospel is preached, and there are local
branches of the Church organized, there the
Relief Society becomes needful and is a help
and a blessing.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


