		WAYNE STAKE. 

Relief Society Conference convened in
the Loa, R. S. Hall, Nov. 24th. 1894. After
opening exercises minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and approved.
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to see so many present, prayed the
Spirit of God would dictate the speakers.
Spoke of the instructions given at the Gen-
eral Relief Society Conference and of the
duties of mothers, said they should teach
their children to fast and observe the duties ,
required of them. The Word of Wisdom,
storing of grain, mulberry growing and
many other good subjects were spoken up-
on.
 President Margaret Taylor reported the


Loa, R. S. in good condition, also bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Lyman R. S. was reported doing well
by President Helen Maxfield.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke on being
examplary in our lives, and upon the train-
ing of children in the right way. Mary E
Adams reported Teasdale, R. S. also bore
testimony. Sister Lucinda Brown spoke of
the necessity of the sisters meeting often
and having their spiritual strength renewed;
spoke of burying our dead in a proper
manner.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the word of wisdom and other subjects in
an interesting manner. Singing, “A poor
wayfaring man of grief" and benediction
by Nancy Blackburn.
	AFTERNOON EXERCISES:  Singing,
“Come come, ye Saints,” Prayer offered
by Sister Maria Jakeman. Singing “The
time is far spent. ” A circular letter from
the General Board was read. President
J. S. Coleman explained the annual pay-
ments and spoke of donations, said the sis-
ters should bring in their donations every
month and receive the blessings in store for
them, also spoke of the necessity of having
Sister Sorenson come and teach a class, that
the sisters might be benefitted by her
knowlege.
	President Sarah Meeks reported the
Thurber R. S., in good working order.
Sister Margaret Pace made remarks which
were timely, also Sister Emma Francom on
the care of health. President Louisa J.
Talor reported Freemont R. S. doing well.
Counselor S. S. Forsythe spoke upon
Economy, household work, gave good ad-
vice to young housewives, spoke upon our
blessings and privileges and so forth. Sis-
ters Sarah Morrell and Anna Kingstrup
spoke and bore testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel. President J. S. Coleman made
some closing remarks, after singing Confer-
ence adjourned for six months. Benedic-
tion by Elizabeth Jeffrey.
