SPEAK NO ILL.

		“Then speak no ill, but lenient be
		To other’s failings as your own,
		If your the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	MY first recollection of the above lines
dates back to the time when I, as a child, 
sat on my father’s knee, in the twilight,
listening to the voices of my parents as they
blended in song; and whenever this song
was the chosen theme, my heart would beat 
in unison with its sentiments, and my soul
be filled with an earnest desire that as I.
grew in years I might be able to obey its
precepts, and put in practice the beautiful
lesson which the lines contained. And al-
though I have, no doubt, failed many times
to live up to my youthful ambition in this
respect, yet, in moments of temptation

[Column 2]
these words have often-times served as a
monitor to silence, thoughts of unkind
criticism that might otherwise have found
expression, and although I have never
known the author’s name, I have always
considered them, words of inspiration.
	What a different state of affairs would be
in existence. if we were as diligent in our
endeavors to discover and make known the
virtues mankind are in posession of, as we
are to find out and proclaim their failings.
	It is one of the mysteries that remain to be
solved why we should take so much pleasure
in circulating reports that are detrimental to
anothers character; for we not only mark
an injury to others by so doing but act det-
rimentally to our own interests, by limit-
ing our circle of friends; and also deprive
ourselves of the sense of satisfaction and
self-approval which always accompanies a
good act—and surely there are few things
more commendable than holding sacred the
reputation of a brother or sister; for a good
name is among the priceless possessions of
this life. In our judgment of others we
should take into consideration the fact that
the inhabitants of the earth are not supposed
to be perfect beings, but were sent here on
a probationary mission, with a view to per-
fection sometime in the future; so it should
not be surprising if in studying the les-
sons of life, and striving to put them into
practice, mistakes are made by the pupils,
but it should be a matter of surprise that
these mistakes should be heralded abroad,
and enlarged and commented upon, as
though they were unpardonable, by those
who are co-laborers in the same school,
subject to, and oftentimes overcome, by the
same obstacles. The failnre to recognize
our own imperfections is one of the chief
causes of our finding so much fault with
others, for, were we fully convinced of our
own short-comings, and the ‘beam’ removed
from our own eye, we would sense to a
greater degree the inconsistency of critcizing
the mistakes of other people while we are
so far removed from perfection ourselves.
	If we will institute a thorough and can-
did investigation of ourselves, there is no
doubt but the result will prove a profitable
one; it may reveal to our view some traits
in our character that we were not aware of,
and impress us with the necessity of a
speedy reformation, and if so we will feel
more lenient towards the failings of others,
and not so anxious to make them known,
but will, “speak of all the best we can.’’
						L. M. W.


[Column 1]
