		WOMEN.

	THE Nationol Council of Women of the
United States is of far more importance
than it is generally considered even by
people of education and advanced modern
ideas of progression. It is a comparatively
new method of bringing into harmony
great national organizations, and is most
certainly calculated to broaden one’s
horizon of thoughts and opinions. But we
have not time just now to give the Coun-
cil idea, but we would like the women of
Utah of whatever faith they may be to
comprehend the great good to all by as-
sociating with women of other countries,
and maintain the only safe and sure policy
of being able to uphold and defend the
standard maintained by them at home
when coming in contact with women of
opposite and extraordinary views and
opinions.
	At the Triennial Council in Washington
D. C. opening on the 12th of February and
closing March [-]nd, 1895, the Utah
women will h[--]e a good opportunity for
representation [--]d indeed there seems to
have been a [--]ovidence in the way it has
all come abo[--], from such small beginnings.
	The Lord loves his daughters as well as
his sons, and he will aid them to accom-
plish the purposes designed for the redemp-
tion of woman and the blessing of hu-
manity in which they are so deeply interest-
ed through the natural love which is so
strong in the heart and soul of every true
woman.
	On Wednesday and on Thursday Feb.
20th, and 21st,—the President [--] each
the great organizations viz. the [---]nal
Woman’s Relief Society, and the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. will discuss important quesitons,
in the morning session, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young’s subject will be “The Need of Co-
operation of Men and Women in all Con-
ectional Work.” Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor,
“Women as directors in Boards of Educa-
tion.’’
	One evening each of the Presidents will
preside and make opening addresses. The
papers read in the N. W. R. S. will be
Heridity and Progressionism, (paper) Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, “The Sixth Sense” (paper)
Sarah M. Kimball, “Forty Year’s in the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake” E. B.
Wells, “The Spirit of Reform Reduced to


Practice” L. S. Greene Richards, The Y.
L. N. M. I. A. Social Reform, (paper)
Martha H. Tingey, The Editorial Side of
Woman’s Education, Minnie J. Snow,
What is Modern Education doing for
American Girls, (paper) Susa Young Gates,
The Relative Importance of Preventative to
Corrective Work in Moral Reform.
	Besides these important meetings the
delegate from each of these Associations,
viz. R. S. and Y. L. will have thirty
minutes allowed to each for a report of work
from the commencement of the work down
to the present time.


