OBITUARIES.
	IT is with feeling of sadness that we announce
the death (at Sandy Utah) of our beloved sister
and co-laborer, Avrilda Burkingshaw, after a severe
illness of four weeks with typhoid fever. Avrilda
Burkingshaw Williams was bom in Masbrough,
Yorkshire England, March 11th, 1856. Was
united in marriage to Joseph Burkingshaw, 6th of
Nov. 1876, at Rotherham England, and joined the
Church in 1885, she leaves a husband and two
sons. Father, mother and sister and hosts of
friends. 
	While we mourn for her, we know that God
has called her home, for a wise and glorious pur-
pose.


She was teacher in our Relief Society, has been
an untiring worker, and always on hand to assist
in every call, that has been made and was
charitable to the poor, she was a faithful worker
in the choir being gifted with a sweet voice.
	The casket was very elegant and covered with
a profusion, of floral offerings, by sympathizing
friends. The pallbearers were teachers of our
Relief Society. The remains were taken to the
Meeting House and the funeral took place Oct.
10. at 2. p. m. and was conducted by Bishop
James Jensen, President Angus Cannon, Bishop
Holman, J. G. Fones, J. C. Brown made very ap-propriate remarks.
	The choir was olso in attendance. A massive
vault, has been erected which was dedicated by
President Angus M. Cannon.
	The remains were followed to the cemetery by
her family relations, and the large concourse of 
sympathizing friends evidencing the respect and
esteem in which she was held.
	At the resurrection morning,
	We shall all appear as one,
	Oh! what robes of bright adorning
	Will the righteous then put on. 
		WILHELMINA OLSON, Prest.
		HARRIETTE WILSON, Coun. 
		HILDA Larson, Sec.

	DIED at Mancos, Colorado, Nov. 17, 1894, Mary
Jane Slade. The cause of her death was internal
cancerous tumor. Sister Slade was the daughter
of Samuel and Ada Western, and was born at
Birmingham, England, Dec. 22, 1850. She emi-
grated with her parents, to Utah in 1868. Lived
in Salt Lake City about a year, moved from there
to Spring Valley, Nev; where she was married to
Jefferson Slade June 20th, 1869. Moved from 
Nevada to Southern Utah, finally emigrated to
the San Juan Valley 1881, and had been a resident
of Mancos, Colorado since 1888. She was the
mother of nine children, seven of whom are still
living. She filled the position of second counselor
to the President of the Relief Society for two
years prior to her death, and was faithful in the
performance of the duties pertaining to her office,
in fact, was most exemplary in all her conduct,
quiet and unassuming, but steadfastly pursuing
the path of duty, and leaving without complaint
the trials and burdens of life. 			L. M.W.


V sit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894. and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

