VERSUS REFORM AND PROGRESS.

	HEARING a remark made the other day
that ignorance and superstition had caused
more sorrow in the world than pride and
ambition; I was led to reflect upon the sub-
ject, and to say, ignorance and superstition
are greater evils than pride and ambition,
for although excessive pride is a sin, and
one of the evils to which our human
nature is subject, it is a term that is often

[Column 2]
misused and applied to true merit wrong-
fully, and is oftener found to be a trait of
the ignorant than of those who possess
true knowledge, for whereas ignorance is
apt to be puffed up at trifles the possession
of true knowledge is willing to sit at the
feet of the wise and be instructed.
	Ignorance and superstition walk amid
the dark places of the earth with cruelty
for their handmaiden, while ambition and
progress counts the light of the sun and
says I will break these bonds of ignorance
and superstition that enrivon me. There
is a stirring of a spirit within me that
teaches me, I am made for better things;
I will try my powers, I will trust my bark
on unknown seas; perchance I shall find
help, ‘tis ignorance and superstition that
prompts the mother to sacrifice her
children to the monster of the Nile, and
others to cast the infants from their bosom
beneath the cars of their monstrous idols;
the widows of India to prostrate them-
selves upon the burning pile that they
may be consumed with the dead bodies of
their husbands, and the poor islanders to
perform their ghastly rites, prompting the
untaught Indian to offer sacrifice to the
sun, and to slay the follower of the dead
that he may accompany his chief to the
happy hunting ground.
	But alas! we need not look among
heathen nations alone to find the apathy of
ignorance or the cruelty of superstition; it
exists today amid our great cities and in
our rural districts. should we go back to
the middle or what is called the dark ages,
what a picture would be presented to our
view; a time when ignorance was declared
to be the mother of devastation; and supersti-
tion held the minds of the people in iron
bands; a time when to make a discovery in
science or to proclaim a new idea respecting
the great father and His dealings with His
children was said to be the work of Satan;
and the axe of the headsman and the stake
were always ready for the victim. Oh! the
cruelty of superstition. How it filled all
France with gashed and mutilated bodies,
and how the fair land ran with blood in
the year 1512 at the massacre of St. Bar-
tholomew the result of a conspiracy be-
tween the so-called vicar of Christ Philip
the 11th, with Charles the ninth and his
mother Catharine DeMedici. And how in
the year sixteen hundred Giardauns Rouno
for asserting the rotatory motion of the
earth was tried and convicted of heresy
and burned at the stake by order of Cle-
ment the VIII, while the priests who
burned him fell upon their knees and
prayed God to continue the good work in
hell. Bruno suffered, but the earth
continued to move: in its orbit notwith-
standing ignorance and superstition decided
it could not move so it was with the first
inventor of type in-printing who had to
flee by night to escape a similar doom;
ignorance and superstition asserting, that
such wonders could only be the work of
the devil. Ones so it has even been ignor-
ance and superstition against Reform and
Progress.
	Ignorance sits at home by the light of a


[Column 1]
dim candle glancing fearfully into the
shadows. Superstition creeps to his side
and soon he imagines he sees shapes of
horror. Superstition comes yet closer and
whispers in his ear, and he hears voices
and sounds of terror in every rustleing
curtain, or creaking board even a little
mouse cannot stir but he thinks it must be
a messenger of evil; he sits shivering,
creeps to his bed covering beneath the
clothing, till at last sleep mercifully steeps
his senses in oblivion.
	Ambition says, “I will rouse myself and
walk abroad I will go among noble men
and brave women, I will visit lighted halls,
I will listen to the strains of sweet music,
or to the voice of the lecturer who will
unfold to my understanding the wonders of
science; or perhaps I will hear the traveler
whose desire for knowledge has led to visit
other lands, and he will tell of dangers
braved and difficulties overcome, or of the
wondrous works of nature in other climes,
and my spirit will be stirred to emulation,
and my heart will be led from nature unto
nature’s God, for I know that His hand is
over all His works.
	Ignorance says, “All things remain as
they were from the beginning until now a
wooden plow was good enough for our
grandfathers, and it is good enough for us,
our forefathers ploughed their fields with
oxen and threshed their grain with a flail
and it is good enough for us.”
	What is the use of all these new fangled
inventions that are turning the world up-
side down?
	Intelligence and progress say, “We will
build railroads, we will invent telegraphy,
whereby we can almost annihilate time and
space. Write the continents and converse
from ocean to ocean; we will learn to con-
vey sound, so that friends however distant
can speak to one another as though stand-
ing face to face; we will chain the lightn-
ing and make it subservient to the will of
man; we will count the stars and learn to
predict the times and seasons of the
planets; we will measure the circumference
of the earth and sound the depths of the
sea; with energy and perseverance we will
see what man can do with the intelligence
God has given him and for which he will
be called to give an account; for it is God
who giveth wisdom to man and he has
said; “Happy is the man that findeth wis-
dom length of days in her right hand
and in her left hand riches and honor; then
down driveling starveling ignorance,
avaunt; thou hydra-headed pale spectre
superstition; onward men of ambition raise
the standard of progress and of right; and
oh ye women of the nineteenth century sit
no longer in ignorance; throw off the soul-
paralyzing influence of superstition and
rise up in the strength of your womanhood
and of the intellect that God has given you;
cultivate your intellect from the sources of
all true knowledge and use it for the up-
lifting and onward progress of the human
race; be prepared to stand shoulder to
shoulder with man to forward every great
enterprise that has for its object the eleva-
tion of mankind and the amelioration of
the sorrows of suffering humanity.
	Let not woman fear that she is over-
stepping the bounds prescribed by the
Great Creator as the proper sphere of
woman, for she was in the beginning creat-
ed a helpmate for man and who will dare
affirm she is out of place, because she
shares his ambition and desires to assist in
all great and worthy enterprises.

[Column 2]
	Nor need she fear the scoffs of ignor-
ance or the benumbing influence of super-
stition that sit in their dark corners and
sneer at what they cannot understand and
say that woman must be unsexed if she
take up her pen to write upon the momen-
tous questions of the day, and her voice is
heard proclaiming from the stand the time
has come when the death blow must be
given to ignorance and superstition, when
both men and women must stand forth in
the light of progress and work together to
that end; and she is no less a wife and
mother, for God and nature fixed the
balance of the sexes and man will even
hold an influence over woman and woman
over man, God and nature have so ordained
it.
	This is also true in regard to mother-
hood. The mother’s love is strong in a
woman’s heart and she cannot forget the
child she nourished at her breast, even un-
to old age, but follows her children with
her love and sympathy through all the
vicissitudes of life, if she could shield
them and suffer in their stead, how often
would she gladly do so.
	If a mother does forget her sucking child
it is through some monstrous perversion of
nature’s laws or of the laws of society; the
more enlightened women become, and the
greater degree of elevation they attain,
the more anxious they will be to direct the
ambition of their sons into such channels
that will not only lead them to climb to
heights of learning, or perhaps to become
one of the great inventors, or artists of the
day; but to that greater knowledge and
understanding that will reach beyond this
transitory state of existancs and fit them
for the endless ages of eternity.
	And oh, ye youth of this much favored
land think not to make the excuse of
ignorance it will no longer be accepted.
This is the golden age of opportunity; hold
not back and think there is nothing left
for you to do; rouse yourselves and look
around you; there are fresh hills for you to
climb; there are new discoveries for you to
make; there is work for you to do.
	Ignorance and superstition are not dead;
gird on your armour and do battle with
them; work while it is called today; never
mind the vices and allurements of the world
if you would play your part well you will
have no time for them, but will shun and
pity them.
	“Honor and shame from no condition rise,
Act well thy part there all the honor lies.”
Set your mark high and live for it, learn to
be true men and true women; oppose ignor-
ance with true knowledge and throw the
light of revelation and truth upon super-
stition.		PHOEBE C. YOUNG.


