LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly Meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Dec.
29th, 1894. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"All hail the Glorious Day." Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing "Welcome best of all good meet-
ings"
	Sister Vilate Young, the Secretary, being
absent, Counselor Webb called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary of the
meeting.
	Counselor E. Webb in her remarks
wished all a Happy New Year, and said,
"Let us not only make good resolutions for

[Column 2]
the coming year, but let us carry them out,
and live for the Gospel. Let us love one
another more than we have in the past."
Gave other good and timely counsel.
	President Z. D. H. Young said, "I often
think a good work done, is better than
commenced. We should be interested for
the living and the dead. No dispensation
that has ever dawned on the world has had
so great a responsibility resting upon it, as
ours. Only think of the affinity between
the dead and us. They are looking to us
for deliverance. Shall we not help them?
Sisters stimulate the young people to do
right but do not try to cover them.
	In our coming together think of the
power of the anointing. we are blessed
throughout all our generations, the promise
is to us, and if your children go astray,
when they have paid the penalty, they
must come back. Let us comfort the er-
ring. We are blessed above all other
people. Think of it, our associations will
last throughout eternity. Let us all bear
testimony today. Make this a testimony
meeting in very deed. Commence here and
every one arise in turn and speak if only a
few words. The last time Joseph spoke
they held an umbrella over him, for it was
raining. Yet those that would come
heard him, and those who did not, never
heard him again. So it is to day. Though
dark and stormy, yet those who will come,
will have the blessing. We have no lease
on our lives, we may never all meet here
again. But our testimonies will stand,
God bless you sisters.
	Sister Julia Samson, bore an excellent
testimony, and expressed an earnest desire
to continue faithful. Sister Lillie Tall
expressed the same desires and bore testi-
mony. Sister Ann Wheeler followed
testifying to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Longmore and Sister Mary E. Bas-
sett each bore a true and faithful testimony.
Sister Jane James, knew her Father in
Heaven loved her and blessed her beyond
measure. Concluded by speaking in
tongues. Interpretation given by President
Z. D. H. Young.
	Sisters Sperry, Bullock, Hardman,
Stanley, Clark and many other sisters
present, each spoke as the spirit gave ut-
terance, all desiring to be faithful to the end
of life.
	Sisters Rawlinson, Smith, Howe and Sil-
ver followed with faithful testimonies.
	Counselor E. Stevenson prayed that the
good Spirit might rest on the sisters who do
not meet with us. Spoke of the poor of
God’s children and gave much good counsel.
	Sisters Hill, Chamberlain and Hardy
spoke of the loving kindness of God to
them. Also Sister Sperry and every other
sister in the congregation. A young brother
who had come with his mother, also stood
up and gave a few words of testimony.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, spoke of the good
gifts that the Redeemer gave to men when
He assended on high, testified that all the
faithful would meet in the great and glor-
ious day, that we would know each other
there, and would be satisfied with the good
gifts, that our Father would give to all his
faithful children.
	Counselor E. Webb made a few closing
remarks and added her blessing to every
soul present. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Sang the Doxology. Benediction,
President Z. D. H. Young.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


