EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ALTHOUGH the EXPONENT has from time
to time received many favorable notices in
other papers, and by letter from individuals,
it has not been customary to publish them.
At the present time however, it may not be
out of place for the sake of encourage-
ment to use some extracts from letters re-
cently received from literary friends who
are looking with interest towards Utah.
	One woman editor and correspondent
of foreign papers writes, “I enjoy your
paper very much, it seems as if your wo-
men lead a much better life than we have
where we are surrounded by so much sen-
sation and noise. I wish that I could come
there and then meet more of your women.”
	Another celebrated and reverent woman
with hair like snow, who has been foremost
in the field of reform for half a century and
more, says concerning our little paper. "It
interests and pleases me to see how active
are the women of Utah, and that they are
seeking advancement in different directions
and trying to make life worth living.” A
gentleman who resides in Washington
D.C. and is familar with newspapers and
politics as also with the grave questions of
the day writes. “You edit and publish a
neat and readable paper,” then he tells us
how fond he is of our poetry, in a very
complimentary way, and specially mentions
certain strong articles from our contributors.
	Another very prominent Washington
woman who spent some time in Utah, a
few years ago and is much interested in
our woman’s work wrote me recently,
	“I am always delighted to get your good
little paper—for it is so full of that which
tells of the earnest never-tiring lives of the
Mormon women, and I am right back in
Dear Old Utah, and breathe the fresh air
of her valleys as it comes from her grand
white-capped mountains, yes, I am for a
time really there, the picture is so vivid.”
	One English gentleman traveling for
pleasure and information through the
United States stated to a friend of ours that
the EXPONENT was the only paper he
had seen that he could read right through
without finding anything offensive. With
such comments from disinterested people
one would think our own sisters would
make an extra exertion to sustain the paper,
if only in view of the good it may do in
letting the world know the views and
opinions of the women of far-famed Utah.
	DURING the absence of the editor in
Atlanta and in Washington the office will
be in charge of her grand-daughter, Miss
Isabel Sears, who is thoroughly acquainted
with the work and competent to discharge
the duties of the office, will answer all
correspondence in relation to the business
of the paper, make collections receipt for
money, and such other business as may be
necessary.


