MUSINGS.

	O STERN unrelentless fortune!  How
often, oh how often I had looked into thy 
face for one fond reassuring smile. How
often I had begged entreated for one pass-
ing look, but you passed me sternly by. 
	In the bitterness of my heart I upbraided
thee still with calm indifference you scorn-
fully gazed upon me; disdain was mingled
with your every look. 
	I saw fair fame standing on heights far,
far above me; thousands with perseverance
and energy for their guide steadily climbing
towards her; upon them beamed her warm-
est smile, I reached out my hand in entreaty
and supplication but Alas! She heeded me 
not.
	With jealous eye I fancied I saw an indif-
ferent look upon Hope's sweet, smilling
face.
	Days, months, and years passed by and 
still my soul writhed in deepest agony.
"A change came o'er the spirit of my
dreams.”
	Among the surging crowd came one with
noble presence, a beautiful woman plainly
dressed,  her only jewels, modesty and intel-
ligence.  The spirit of purity and truth 
were her safe guards.  A moment  she
gazed into my despairing face, approached
me and said pointing to the crowd, who
were climbing the tree of knowledge, some
with blushed faces and aching hearts and
others in whose flashing eye, "and I will con-
quer," seemed written in burning letters of 
fire.
	In silvery tones she asked, “Wouldst
thou be one of those brave sons and 
daughters so valiantly climbing the tree of
life?” To my burning words of grief and 
protestation in low, sad words she replied,
	‘‘Dost thou think for one moment that
one step can be gained, that fair fame can
ever be reached without first conquering 
thy self?  Hast thou been diligent? Hast
thou struggled to overcome a few of the 
many obstacles to be found in life’s path-
way? Be brave and struggle on.  Soon
she too passed along and soon I saw her 
one of the foremost of the busy workers.
	The words of Solomon rang in my ear
"Go to the ant thou sluggard: consider her
wasy and be wise.”
	I bent my head in shame as I bitterly
reflected on the time spent in idle regrets,
as I raised my eyes a messenger again a
messenger of peace stood before me 
his clothes were soiled with travel; stern-
ness mingled with love and truth were
stamped upon his kindly face, he seemed to
read my innermost soul and pointing to a 
beacon light which he held in his right
hand said, “see I have brought you light
and comfort if you will but obey the call
made upon you by your Father in Heaven;
believe in him.  If thou wilt but obey the 
still small voice within thee, every aspira-
tion of a noble and elevating character will
be in thy reach.  Does not everything poi nt
out God a being of intelligence?” As the 
truth of this glad message entered my
heart I looked around me in dazed wonder-
ment, all seemed so changed, Hope seemed 
smiling, all nature smiled.  I looked again
at the messenger and he as though divin-
ing my thoughts, in low gentle tones asked

[column 2]
“Is not the change in thee?” and then 
silently left me to my thoughts.  In the
language of the poet I bring my article to a
close.
“Who’er thinks a faultless face to see
Thinks what ne’er was ne’er is, nor e’er shall be
In every work regard the writer's end
Since none can compass more than they intend.”
