MISS PHŒBE COUZINS.

	MISS PHŒBE COUZINS of St. Louis,
distinguished lawyer and lecturer, and at
one time United States Marshal of the
Eastern District of Missouri, (serving out
her father’s term after his decease,) has
been for some weeks in our city at the
Templeton Hotel. Miss Couzins is ac-
companied by her brother, who is like her-
self a sort of semi-invalid, and as they are
the only two left of the family, they like
to keep together as much as possible.
	Miss Couzins who is much broken down
in health came here with the idea of try-
ing our celebrated hot springs for rheuma-
tism, but up to this time has not availed
herself of the opportunity, fearing the cold
frosty air might not be beneficial after a
bath of that kind.
	After Miss Couzins graduated from the
high school of her native city she chose the
law as a profession, her application for ad-
mission to the Washington university in
St. Louis in 1869 was granted without a
dissenting voice; she was an earnest student
while there, and was graduated with honor
in 1871, when a public dinner was given to
celebrate the event.
	She has been admitted to practice in all
the courts of Missouri, the United States
District Court, and in the courts of Kansas
and Utah; she was the first woman in the
United States appointed to a Federal ex-
ecutive office, receiving her commission
from Justice Miller. She has twice been
appointed Commissioner for the State of
Missouri on the National Board of Charities
and Corrrctions; superintendent of the Cen-
sus, Robert P. Potter, appointed her
manager of the division of mortgage in-
debtedness of the city of St. Louis.
	In July 1890 she was appointed Lady
Commissioner for Missouri on the World’s
Fair Board of Directors She is a very
strong character and is well-versed in
history as well as in the law and is familiar
with the great questions of the day and
holds very positive opinions of her own on
many general national subjects. Miss
Couzins entered the lecture field as an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage in 1876 and has
been quite celebrated for her brilliancy and
eloquence upon the public platform. Miss
Couzins has lectured in most of the large
cities of the United States and has a
national reputation as an easy fluent and
forcible speaker.
	In a recent campaign in Colorado she
took an active part and traveled through
the hills and canyons into the rural and
mining districts, speaking to small and

[Column 2]
large audiences as the case might be. Gov.
Waite of that state appointed her a dele-
gate to the Trans-Mississippi Congress in
St. Louis, and after the close of that Con-
gress she came on to Utah. She has very
graciously consented to speak here several
times to clubs of women, and has given
charming topics in her easy, graceful and
pleasing style.
	A public lecture “The Silver Conspir-
acy” was given in the new Grand Opera
house January 13th, the audience was not
large but very appreciative. On Tuesday
January 15, Miss Couzins spoke in Ogden
at the City Hall and afterwards during the
week to womens’ clubs and to the people
in Thomas’ Hall.
	In Ogden she was the guest of Mrs.
Hilliard which made her stay there very
pleasant.
	Miss Couzins gives her Salt Lake theater
lecture Sunday evening January 20th, sub-
ject, “The Pilgrim Mothers and Daughters
of the Cavaliers.


