BUSINESS COLLEGE
WASATCH 1812
Family Life Today
Edited by Margaret E. Rich
By Lois V. Hales
IN 1877 the first Charity Organization Society was founded at Buffalo, New York. In 1927 a three-day conference was held, again in Buffalo, under the auspices of the American Association for Organizing Family Social Work. Family Life Today is made up of papers on "The Family" delivered at this conference.
Family life was considered from many points of view, for it touches all fields of human activity. The family belongs to all members of society. A cross-section of scientific thought concerning the family was obtained through papers delivered by biologists, sociologists, ministers, teachers, social workers, etc. Based on actual conditions today, the future of the family in America was discussed. The family was "used as a touchstone for evaluating the lasting worth of present-day industrial, educational, religious, and other social institutions."
Much is being written about the family. Some of it is optimistic; most of it is pessimistic. Authorities present at the conference, feeling that everyone has opinions about family life, but few have facts, spoke entirely from first-hand experience. This alone would make Family Life Today a worthwhile book. Add to this the fact that all those contributing to it have faith in the future of the family and offer plans for its enrichment and you have a book outstanding and stimulating.
THE first section of the book deals with the background of the family. The monogamous family has been established through the needs of man and meets his needs better than any other system. In this family it is falsely stated that the male must in the nature of things be more powerful and efficient than the female. Our biological inheritance we understand. We have, however, neglected our social heritage?our ways of thinking and acting?our very personality?which is mainly passed on by the family. The family determines whether the child is to be timid, honest, conservative, or otherwise. "As the twig is bent, so grows the tree." The change in the size of the family may affect the personality of the members of the family both for good and evil. It may increase the percentage of exceptionally capable children mentally, but it may also result in an increase of nervousness and mental disorders. To these conditions the family must adjust itself through new inventions and utilize new knowledge concerning personality, habits and practice of affection, training of children, etc.
In the second part of the book, devoted to "Founding New Families," Dorothy Canfield Fisher strikes the keynote of the book in her chapter entitled "A Challenge." She feels that the task ahead of members of the family is noble and that we should face the future of the family with courage and cheer and hopefulness. We are but pioneers with the problems of pioneers. Our goal?a family shaped to meet present day needs?lies ahead. We cannot go back to the old quietly ordered world of unquestioned traditions and standards.
Ernest R. Groves urges education and preparation for parenthood. This education must not become a fad, but must be linked with existing educational institutions, such as the schools, the church, the community, and the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A.
Mary E. Richmond prophesies that just as the health movement has swept the country during the last twenty years, so a social movement, with marriage its subject, will awaken and take a like course. The clergy, the lawmakers, the scientists, the social workers, the women's organizations will all play their part in this reform over which she, like Mrs. Fisher, is so optimistic.
In the third part of the book, which deals with "Work, Wages, and Leisure," industrialism and its effect on the family is discussed by noted authorities. The family is no longer the chief unit of production. Men and women today make their living as individuals and not as members of a family group as they used to do. But this does not mean that the permanence of the family is a thing of the past. Factors such as love, care of children in early years, and man's inherent hunger for permanence, are operating to hold the family together.
"LEISURE, through all the ages, has been looked forward to as the great boon." Today leisure increases. Work recedes, offering new possibilities as it goes. This new-found leisure if properly used is a real boon. Karl De Schmeinitz in discussing this subject takes an optimistic attitude. He feels that actually people are not away from their homes as much as they were in the days before leisure. To him the motion picture is not such an evil as it is pictured. There are attractions to keep us at home that did not exist when we were born, such as books and radio. The recent wave of home ownership is doing much to keep members of the family at home. "It is what each member contributes to the family that makes the life of the home." The family used to huddle together on the front steps, but how stultifying was its leisure. Today parents and children go forth from the home adventuring. They come home later, bringing variety and interest "that makes of comradeship a recreation." People, not materials, make the home.
THERE are those who feel that we are too passive in our use of leisure. We listen to the radio, we see the motion picture, the baseball game, the football game, the tennis match. This, however, develops our faculties of appreciation and fires us to try our hand at things. Appreciation of another's skill very often arouses the desire for emulation. Such organizations as the Boy Scouts and the Girl Scouts have made a great contribution to leisure by fostering the study of the wild life of the woods and fields.
The art of fellowship has not been aided by industrialism. Friends do not visit us as much as they did. No longer do we choose our friends from among our neighbors. There is thus a loss in friendliness that goes with informality. We need a revival of the art of hospitality. Entertainment should, as much as possible, be a family affair. The children should be included. Conversation at table should always be one of the delights of leisure. Let there be many jokes for "jokes and laughter bring the generations together." Perfect comradeship can 442 never be achieved between the generations but it can be kept as close as possible through a wise, right use of leisure. "Contrast the separation from the family which the saloon fostered with the companionship that is had in attendance at the motion picture show or in the automobile." ee ON is primarily a problem for the family. Today we are in vital need of ways of increasing the moral and _ splritual forces that build good, solid, trustworthy individuals. ""Wherever there has been profound religious life in any nation, race, or people, there has always been behind it a deep and pervasive piety and religious culture in the home." Rufus M. 'Jones, in writing of "Religion and Family Life," feels that man is, essentially, spiritually minded with a native hunger for God. During the year of 1928 eight million copies of the New Testament were sold. 'Habits of reverence and of wonder, once formed, are likely to last through life. "A home penetrated with spiritual culture and spiritual ideals is the highest product of civilization and it in turn ministers all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the time toward the creation of a still higher civilization." The home determines the destiny of its boys and girls. '"The home shapes the social life; it makes the church possible; it is the true basis of the state and nation. The woman who is successful in making a true home and nursery of spiritual culture, where peace and love dwell, and in which the children whom God gives her feel the sacredness and holy meaning of life, has won the best crown there is in this life and she has served the world in a very high degree." Thus runs this excellent book, Family Life Today. Based on firsthand scientific thought, it is optimistic as to the future of the family. It is harder than most people think to break down the family unit. In the future we are going to speak of developing the family rather than of preserving it. Integration, continuity of membership, affection, social case work has demonstrated as essential to family life. "The time has come to stop denouncing the family, or scolding it for its shortcomings; it is worthy of better and more careful study."