Myrella
By the Late Josephine Spencer
WHEN Macy knew that the stenographer who was to take young Evans' place was a girl, he entered the first protest he had ever initiated against his partner's plans.
"It's no place for a girl, Dartley—the work's too technical. She'd probably be weeks learning our mining phases, and we'd have to stand for the inconvenience while she was coaching. Besides—"
Dartley interrupted him with the reminder that Evans had taken care of the mining technicalities without special training, but the argument, from Macy's point of view, was puerile.
"Boys can pick up those things—by instinct. But a girl—"
The broken sentence was a sufficient climax to Macy; and his partner knew it would be useless to base his argument upon the mere fact of competency. Macy's real objection lay in his aversion to feminine society—a foible forced upon his notice by Macy's untactful evasion of social attentions forced upon him during his stay with them in Chicago, and which had aroused the ire, not only of Dartley's wife, who had gone out of her way to lionize the big, handsome but unsocial blonde, who was her husband's friend and business associate, but also to certain others of her own sex, to whom Macy's indifference had given subtle affront.
WHEN the vein was struck that proclaimed the Bluebird a bonanza, Dartley knew that the eagerness with which Macy accepted the chance of burying himself in the little mining town near their claim, was due to the opportunity it afforded him to escape from social obligations entailed by his presence in the city. Some story of a disastrous love affair in Macy's remote past had been hinted in explanation of his obstinate repellance of feminine society, but the tale seemed too trite for credence, and Dartley had decided that it was due, rather, to a sort of natural shyness resulting from his long stay in spots remote from civilization where he had spent years in seeking the fortune which came to him at last through an insignificant mining claim in his neglected West.
IN the year since his return, Dartley had tried with philanthropic energy to reform Macy's "retiring disposition"—but in vain. Seeing him stubbornly serious in regard to the present question, Dartley was obliged to take him into his confidences as to the story whose claim had won his own personal pledge to the "girl's" interests. It was dramatic enough, as Dartley preluded, to be used on the stage. Its tableaux, sandwiched between commonplace but harrowing details, were: the father's financial failure, followed by the mother's death; the collapse of the husband into an illness where expense ate up the small financial resource which remained to him from his reverses; and finally the man's desperate resort to a penal crime to protect the child from threatened actual want. Trial and imprisonment under an alias—for the child's sake—followed; and the latter, adopted by the widow of her father's former business partner, grew towards womanhood believing her father dead. A year since, her guardian had died, depriving Myrella not only of protection, but support; and the girl, thrown on her own resources, had taken up the problem of livelihood—its present outlook hinging on the position at the Bluebird.
These were the salient points in the girl's history; and sequalled, as they were, by the personal interest of Dartley's wife in her case, cut the ground from beneath the two feet which Macy had obstinately planted upon his friend's proposition. Dartley knew, from the first, that he had a court of final appeal against Macy's stubbornness in his friend's acute sensitiveness to human suffering; and the result of his story justified the faith he had placed in its influence. Macy yielded, however, with a bad grace, which manifested itself in alternate spells of gloomy silence and splenetic sarcasm up to the time of Myrella's arrival; and his cold reception of that harmless person when she at last arrived, filled Dartley's mind with misgivings, as he considered her future in the view of his friend's belligerent attitude.
MACY left the dictation of correspondence unreservedly to Dartley, during the latter's stay at the Bluebird, and it was when he went away, and the work fell under Macy's reluctant supervision, that Myrella's trials began.
A week's experience of her employer's rapid dictation and raspingly authoritative manner reduced her to a condition bordering upon nervous prostration; and the note-taking and transcribing which went smoothly enough before Dartley's departure, began to take on a problematic aspect when Macy's impatient presence was behind her chair. She sat up far into the night, reading books of mining reference to accustom herself to technical terms, and spent portions of her earnings in hiring the landlady's daughter, Mabel, to read passages in staccato time, in the faith that practice would enable her to solve the problem of her unusual slackness in her work. The pencil that flew to Mabel's swift, but mild enunciation, lagged hopelessly before Macy's impatient tone and eye; and the phrases she had mastered seemed, in the few short hours between night and office-time, to have resolved themselves into a dead language, when she essayed to read her notes under Macy's critical vision.
"It's funny you should get so thin, up here," the landlady said one day, some three weeks after Myrella's arrival. "The mountain air fleshes most people up; but it seems to me you look paler than when you came. It must be you work too hard."
"Oh, it isn't the work," said Myrella. "I guess its the—the—altitude."
She turned away, but not before Mrs. Lane saw that tears filled the blue eyes—and a pathetic quiver lurked about the pale lips.
It all came to a climax one day when Macy was in a particularly aggressive mood. Rumors of an impending strike were about, and it was taking all the diplomacy he possessed to avert what, at this juncture, would mean a disastrous situation. The absence of anyone who might help bear the brunt of the anxiety, deepened Macy's sense of grievance, as he entered the rear office, and saw Myrella's slight figure shrink nervously, as was evident, at his approach. It would have been different, Macy thought, if Evans were there. He had taken an intelligent interest in the affairs of the company, and could comprehend the amount of anxiety involved in the threatened complications. Myrella's pen rolled across the table, as he sat down near her desk to dictate; and he waited, with a frown on his face, while she reached for it, and laid her notebook ready for his dictation. Anxiety, impatience, a little spleen at his partner's easy reception of the news he had telegraphed, all made his mood and manner irritable; and presently when he asked her to "read back" for his benefit a sentence upon whose careful wording much would depend, her notes refused absolutely to interpret themselves to her nervous scrutiny.
"Didn't you take the sentence?" Macy asked, sharply, at last.
"Yes, sir, I—I am trying to find it."
Macy waited frowningly while she went down the lines of hieroglyphics—as unanswering to her now as if her shorthand training had been an episode in some forgotten incarnation.
"Have you found it?" Macy asked in ugly tones.
"No, sir."
"Go back to the beginning and read down to it, aloud."
Myrella obeyed. She read the first few lines—haltingly, by an effort of pure memory—then came to a full stop.
"Well?" said Macy, ominously.
Myrella's face was pale; and her eyes, fixed unseeingly on the lines and curves and dots, were swimming with tears.
"Can't you read your notes?" thundered Macy.
"I think—if you would let me be by myself a moment," faltered Myrella desperately, "I could—"
"I can't afford to take a holiday while you teach yourself stenography," Macy interrupted. "This letter's important; it has to be gotten off this morning."
He knew beforehand that it was brutal, and believed it warranted by his grievance; but he had been far from counting upon the outcome of his impatience. He commenced to suggest that she should take the dictation again in longhand—when it happened. He had never heard any woman cry before and the mildest phase of feminine grief would have sufficed to overwhelm him; but the sobs which shook the slight figure leaning on the desk in its absolute abandon of grief did more than embarrass, they frightened him.
It was to Myrella a culmination of days of nervous tension and anxious fear, of sleepless nights filled with thoughts of an ominously brooding future in which she should find herself turned adrift, probably with the verdict of "incompetent" to bear as a record for future reference. Macy, in his man's blindness and long-nursed prejudices, had sensed nothing of it, till her broken sentences, gasped between heart-drawn sobs made him realize all.
"I—I'm so dull—I've tried hard, but it don't seem any good. I see—I can't go on. I guess I'm too stupid to learn it. I—I'll have to go away."
She broke again into a paroxysm of sobs, while Macy looked on helplessly. Go away—why, where would she go? The story Dartley had told him came back vividly for the first time since he had heard it. He rose and stood with his hand awkwardly upon her chair-back.
"I—you mustn't give way like this, Miss Conroy. It won't do to get discouraged. You'll get along all right when you get used to it. And as for going away, I hope you won't think of such a thing. It's out of the question."
Myrella shook her head hopelessly. "It wouldn't be right to stay when I know I don't suit you."
Macy winced. It was distinctly true that she did not suit him; but he had begun to feel guiltily conscious that the fault lay chiefly with himself. He stood miserably silent for a moment.
"Your work is all right, Miss Conroy," he stammered presently. "I—the fact is, I've been under somewhat of a strain for several days, and I've been a little trying, I guess. But you mustn't notice it—like this—nor let it discourage you. As for going away, please don't speak of it again. I couldn't spare you just now—."
He floundered miserably in his effort to frame something that should straighten matters out—and the pitifully joyful face Myrella turned towards him, deepened his sense of contrition.
"If you think I really could go on," she said, "I would practice more, and perhaps—"
"Not a doubt of your doing all right," broke in Macy eagerly—and then a knock at the outer door put an end to the situation.
"I'll leave the letter until this afternoon," he said; "it will do if you can get it out by the time I come back from lunch"—and then turned hastily to greet, with startling effusiveness, the messenger who had brought word that he was summoned to a meeting of bank directors in the town.
WHEN he returned an hour later to find the letter transcribed in neat form, correct even to the precise placing of his particles, his sense of culpability was deepened to an extent which elicited another awkward apology when she returned from lunch for his part in the morning's unpleasantness. His dread of a similar experience made him nervously self-conscious and careful when dictating to her after that, and any hint of hesitation on the part of Myrella to interpret the symbols she had penned, called forth a humorously eager assurance from him as to the inconsequence of a literal translation, as well as the extravagant amount of time at her disposal for the work. The tension, during the first week after Myrella's impromptu scene, made him choose to sit up often, late at night, inditing by hand the longer letters he was obliged to send, rather than endure it; but Myrella improved so rapidly and palpably under his changed manner, that it was not long before the sense of strain wore off; and he could approach her desk with an ease that would have surprised anyone acquainted with his peculiarities.
After a time he began to be aware that many things could be entrusted to her intelligence, without going into detail; but the fact of her capability did not keep him from spending much of his time dictating, since he had begun to realize a sort of pleasure in watching the small hand flitting down the page, as he talked his letters. At last, when Myrella was kept at home for a week with the sprained ankle she had gotten climbing the hill for wild flowers, with Mabel, he became conscious of such a sense of void that he called at the boarding house two or three times, ostensibly to find out when she would be ready for work, but really, because the sight of the little figure in the rear office had begun to assume the aspect of necessity.
When she was at last convalescent, he took her to and from the office in his buggy, and often, after work hours, the ride home was lengthened; and on Sundays it became a habit to drive Myrella and Mabel on little excursions into the near canyons, where, while she and Mabel sat in the cool shade near the stream, he climbed the hill-side, and showered the spoils of his difficult pilgrimages into Myrella's lap, content with the smile she bestowed upon him for his unaccustomed gallantry.
THE fact that the town had noted and commented upon these attentions, was first intimated to him by his partner, who, taking hint from Macy's curt letters, had come out to help straighten the complications in the affairs of the Bluebird.
"It seems the whole town is next to the fact that the stenographer is playing the 'winning wiles' business with deadly effect on you, Macy," said Dartley one evening after Myrella had passed through the outer office on her way home.
Macy met his friend's chaffing with unaccustomed nonchalance.
"It would be more to the purpose if it kept next to its own affairs," he said, smiling.
"Oh, they don't seem to blame you. It seems it was a foregone conclusion that she would make a dead set at you. They look on it as a sort of wolf and lamb affair."
Macy muttered something under his breath.
"I look like a fleece-lamb, don't I?" he asked savagely. "It never occurred to them, I suppose, that a fellow might consider himself in luck, if, by any interposition of Providence, a girl like that might be made to care for him. If she will give me the right, I will gag these malicious bleaters with their own balls of yarn."
"You don't mean to say it's as serious as that?" interrupted Dartley in a startled tone.
"It's as serious as that," said Macy, briefly, "if it's serious at all."
"Why, great heaven, Milt! You can't mean it! It would mean social suicide. Her father's term is nearly out—and you can see what it would mean."
A slight sound in the rear office interrupted Macy's reply, and he went hastily to the door to look inside. There was no one there, and by the time he had turned the key and returned to Dartley, Larkin, the superintendent of the Bluebird had come in, and the conversation was not renewed.
The next morning Mabel brought word that Myrella was not well enough to work; and Mabel, who had been profiting by the latter's private lessons, was installed in her place for the day. The news Larkin had brought the night before was serious enough to keep Macy busy all that day, so that he could not call at Myrella's boarding house, as he intended; and the letter of farewell which came to him next morning found him so bound with the Bluebird troubles that he was helpless to take steps to detain her.
During the remainder of the week, the strike, which by this time was in full bloom, kept him even from the comfort of ascertaining her whereabouts, that he might reply to her note. The latter was a ceaseless undercurrent in his thoughts throughout the period of the trouble; and his heart ached for the hopelessness dimly shown in Myrella's frank explanation of her departure. She had returned for the letters Macy had asked her to post—entering by the rear door in order not to intrude upon the conversation of the two in the front office, and catching the full drift of Dartley's remarks. She had told no one where she was going, but Macy found out at the railway office that she had bought a ticket to San Francisco; and it was only after the Bluebird's troubles were effectually disposed of that he could follow up this clue.
The personals he inserted in the newspapers brought no reply; and the one other means which he resolved to employ to find her seemed so visionary that had it not been his last hope, he would never have considered it. As it was, the end of two weeks found him installed in a suite of offices rented in a business block on Kearney Street, waiting the outcome of his advertisement for a stenographer, which occupied a three-line space in each of the San Francisco dailies.
He engaged the first applicant, a fresh-mannered youth of nineteen years, and set him at work copying mining records in the rear of one of the three rooms, safely beyond hearing of the outer office. He was not prepared for the number of applicants that appeared, and it was not until he saw the abject disappointment pictured in the faces of some of them at the information that the place was taken, that he began to realize the doubtful fairness of his undertaking. After thinking it over, he hit upon the scheme of asking the more seedy and hopeless looking applicants for their addresses on the plea of sending for them in case the present incumbent should not suit; and these persons were dumb-founded later, at receiving a remittance, which Macy sent anonymously, as a return for the trouble they had taken at his behest.
He spent the first day of his amateur detectiveship in nervous watchfulness. Every step that sounded in the hall made his heartbeats quicken; and he could hardly control an impulse to rush to the door, before the usual rap sounded. He spent a week experimenting with his scheme; and two more roaming the crowded streets in the wild hope of catching sight of her; then put his little data into the hands of a detective, and went back to the Bluebird.
A short time afterward he learned that Myrella's father had been released from his long durance, and was believed to have joined his daughter in California—though the strictest search had failed to discover their whereabouts.
Bluebird, in its winter dreariness proved too much for Macy's depressed spirits—overwhelming him finally into deciding to spend the season in San Francisco, where he would have at least the sight and sound of the city's stir to alleviate his loneliness.
A week's time effected the realization that no visual nor aural cheer would affect the void of Myrella's absence. He had no intimate friends, and few acquaintances in the place, and left the hotel one evening in a vain attempt to assuage his growing sense of loneliness by a sight of the city's bravery. The business streets were cheery with glittering lights and gorgeous window dressing; and throngs crowded the sidewalks, smiling, eager, jostling each other with good-natured unconcern. The sight of them, with their arms loaded with bundles—carrying their suggestions of hearthstones and home-ties, brought an unusual tightening to his heartstrings, and after pushing his way along the principal thoroughfares for a time, he found it a relief to turn into the quieter streets. His aloofness from the aims and feelings of the happy, animated crowd made him feel even more alien.
HE had spent months before in strange cities, when their loneliness had brought not a tithe of the sensitiveness he felt now; and he knew that the unusual stress was due to the vivid dream he had lately pictured of a new life, which was to have brought to him the blessed gifts of love and home ties. It made him doubly bitter, as he thought of the ill-chance that had taken from him a cup of happiness that seemed at his very lips. The case seemed hopeless, now, with every clue destroyed; and Myrella's own determination to avoid him hung in the balance of odds.
"Lucky Milton Macy!" the newspaper had called him in the personal that had heralded his arrival, telling of the good fortune that had made a millionaire of the needy civil engineer in the space of a year. Lucky! As if anything counted now in life, if he were to see no more the blue eyes that had shed the first warm rays of actual happiness into his life.
He had grown more morose as he walked on, thinking it over, and turned, with an impatient scowl, as some one jostled against him, suddenly, on the narrow sidewalk. It was a man carrying a parcel on his arm; and though Macy had moved aside, he did not pass, but continued to walk closely at his side. There were people passing on the sidewalk, but not enough to excuse the man's keeping at his elbow; and Macy had just concluded that the individual had indulged in a strong form of liquid cheer, when the man, turning suddenly towards him, spoke:
"Do you see this parcel across my arm?" he said in a confidential tone, such as a friend might have used in discussing the city's sights, or any other common theme; "it is a pistol, and my hand is on the trigger. If you cry out or attempt to move away from me, I will kill you. Go on!" he hissed, as Macy half halted. "I am on the verge of hell, and if you do not save me, you shall die with me as surely as I am telling you this."
He turned his haggard face and burning eyes full upon Macy as he spoke, and the latter, with a vague idea that lunacy was pictured in them, and the certain one that, however it might be, the man was in a deadly mood, walked on beside him. Instinctively he glanced at the parcel the man carried. It lay across the arm nearest him, and through the broken edges of the paper he saw the end of a pistol, with the muzzle pointed within six inches of his heart.
Macy glanced around. The street, though quiet, was far from being deserted, and Macy knew that he had but to cry out to bring a half dozen to his assistance; but before they would be able to realize sufficiently to reach and aid him, the man would have ample time to send a bullet through his heart. To attempt to grapple with him seemed equally hazardous, as his assailant had evidently counted all costs, and would act upon the turn of a finger. Walking leisurely along with his head turned in seeming carelessness toward Macy, the man was watching him as alertly and cautiously as a cat. Despite the seeming absurdity and hazard of the situation, the stranger, so far, had the upper hand; and Macy found himself conscious of a half curious interest and zest in the adventure. While he was undoubtedly at a disadvantage himself, yet, he was so far, not more so than the other, as any attempt to carry out a violent robbery in the sight of the passers-by would, by calling their attention to his desperate purpose, frustrate his own ends. The problem was, what scheme had he resolved upon to carry out his ends? The man did not leave him long in doubt.
"I will give you instructions as to what I wish you to do," he said, "and you will carry them out, without giving me trouble, or suffer what I have threatened. I will tell you once more not to delude yourself with the thought that I don't mean to carry out my purpose. I have been planning this long enough to count all the odds and the costs of failure; and that I have attempted this act in the face of them, should convince you that I will make you suffer first, if the end is to be failure."
"You have been planning this," repeated Macy. "That means, then, that you know me?"
"Your arrival was heralded in the newspapers," said the man. "You millionaires get great headlines, and I have been watching you ever since for this chance. I selected you, chiefly, because you have no family to suffer your loss in case you make things bad for yourself; and secondly, because your being a stranger made it possible to find you sometime off guard, as I have tonight. When you left your hotel this evening I was behind you; and I have been at your elbow ever since."
"What do you propose doing?" asked Macy with increased curiosity.
"I am going to take what money you have with you, and if it is not sufficient for my needs, I shall exact a pledge from you to supply me with more."
Macy smiled. Lunacy, without a shadow of a doubt, was responsible for the adventure.
"Don't think that I am insane, or joking," said the other, as if reading his thoughts, "I imply, simply, that I am going to try the experiment of taking your word, if you give it, and if you fail to keep it, to show you that I can keep mine. Turn here," he said, as they reached the corner; "turn and go north until I tell you to stop."
Macy obeyed. He was in fact experiencing a certain kind of enjoyment in the adventure. It offered a change at least from the lonely room at the hotel to which he dreaded to return, and the worse loneliness of the crowded streets, which he had been glad to shun. As they walked on, the man talked, cool and threateningly at first, but gradually falling into a nervously desperate tone, in which Macy fancied he could detect a note of sincere misery. The story into whose recital he had gradually drifted, was a trite one, of poverty in its direst straits; of want that had driven him to crime—of new hope and energy and moral determination that had upheld him after the long prison term had ended, and of the bitter struggle whose vainness had brought him once more into the shadow of sin.
Macy listened carelessly at first, classing it as the old, unoriginal instinct which prompts the criminal, natural or otherwise, to attempt to palliate his sins in others' eyes, but as he went on there was something personally familiar in the ring of the story, that made Macy's heart beat with a wild hope. When he had at last finished, Macy spoke quietly, with an effort keeping the eagerness out of his tone.
"What you have told me sounds well enough. If it is true, you might certainly stand free from condemnation for this, or any other means you might use, save murder, of alleviating such suffering. I need not tell you, though, how completely used up your material is; the starving wife, the sick child, and all the rest of the business you have put into your story.
"Wait," he went on, as the man was about to interrupt bitterly, "wait. I have not said that I do not believe it. I simply suggest to your intelligence that in order to be able to fully believe, I should have some more positive proof of its truth than your word. Now, I am going to give you a chance. If you can produce the fireless home, the sick and starving child as per your assertions, I pledge you that from tonight, if you do not have: an opportunity to make a man of yourself, it will be your own fault." The man gave a half sob. "You want to see it with your own eyes," he said. "Well, you shall, come." Macy did not know how far, nor hardly in what direction they went, before his companion told him to stop. He had seen the lights of the city thinning gradually out to the suburbs, and heard the waters of the bay lapping the lonely beach shores whose edge they neared, without a sense of fear, and hardly of misgiving. Since the man's involuntary display of conscience, he had a sense of absolute security, as fa as personal violence was concerned; and as to robbery, the worst the -man might do, could not matter, materially, in view of his great wealth, It was with absolute fearlessness that he stopped before the lonely hovel, at whose door the other paused. His companion led the way into a barely furnished room, and paused a moment, listening. Then he stepped noiselessly to a door opening into an inner room, and beckoned Macy to approach. With his heart beating a sledge-hammer tattoo of hope and fear, Macy obeyed and looked beyond him into the room. Lying upon a lounge, the pallor and thinness of her features emphasized by the dark coverlet in which she was wrapped, was Myrella; a shadow of the bright-faced creature he remembered in those last happy weeks at the Bluebird, and yet—-Myrella! He stepped past his companion into the room, and the next moment her blue eyes opened under his gaze. The account chronicled a few days later by the newspapers of the wedding of "Millionaire Macy" and Myrella, was supplemented with the reporter's imaginary story of Mr. John Conroy, the bride's father, who, it stated, had just returned from a seven year's stay at Kimberly, where he had amassed a fortune, to find a daughter whom he had mourned as dead, restored to him through a chance meeting with her affianced husband on the eve of their marriage. Mr. Conroy, they stated in conclusion, had purchased an interest in the famous Bluebird mine, and would take local charge of its affairs while the bridal couple made a tour through Europe. This story published at random, upon tangled threads of facts, was not. Denied; and through the connivance of the few who knew all, so stood for all time. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - -_ MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS, JULIA A. F., So - Mrs. Emma A. Empe Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Elise B. Alder Mrs, Inez K. Allen Mrs, Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs, Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker - - - - - Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager - - -: -. - Assistant Manager - Room 20, Bishep's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Auice Loursz REYNOLDS Louise Y. Rosson Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah