HEART vs. HEAD.

	Shall our daughters be educated? Yes, by
all means! But let us attend to the education
of their hearts as well as their heads. And let
it be true education, not the false.
	True it is that the continuous practice of sen-
sational novel reading destroys the healthful
functions of heart and brain, Yet there is a
possibility of people becoming too matter-of-
fact for the full, free exercise of human happi-
ness. To pursue any or all branches of scien-
tific literature with such vigor and devotion as
to crush out, or blunt the growth of all emo-
tional qualities, of a domestic character, is
making a mistake in the course of education.
	Yet women become ambitious, and laudably
so, to gain wealth and distinction and power
equal to that possessed by men. And with
some, before they are aware, that ambition
grows into an excited determination to excel.
Rather than run the risk of a failure through
the admission of other hopes and purposes, they
shut out from their imaginations all the softer
tints of nature’s coloring, by which the rude,
dark scenes so frequently occurring in life’s
pathway, might be made comparatively cheery
and light. Thus the head becomes educated
to the exclusion from culture and proper devel-
opment of the innate faculties of the subdued
and silenced heart.
	Is not the woman who thus pampers and ex-
alts those personalities which she may consider
the noblest and most excellent in her nature,
at the expense of blighting finer and more ex-
quisite qualities, quite as unjust in her decis-
ions as the stern and much learned connois-
seurs who would refuse women the right to en-
ter the colleges? If the daughter may legiti-
mately claim the right to ALL the advantages


for an education which are guaranteed to her
brother—and we aver she may—then have all
those qualities which serve to render us pleas-
ing and agreeable as social beings, or happy
within ourselves, a right to live and receive
care and culture, quite as much as the most
practical talent which may serve as a resource
for gaining daily bread.
	Not more in woman than in man should the
heart's best gifts as well as those of the head
be acknowledged and educated. If gentle for
bearance, pure and sincere affection, sympathy
patience and perfect love are virtues, as such
they should be recognized in man as readily as
in woman.
	It has been the popular cry that no woman
could be a good, true, loving wife, and at the
same time successfully follow any profession.
If so, neither can a man do justice to any pro-
fessional calling and prove a kind, affectionate
and considerate husband. The truth is, man
has been looked upon as the soul proprietor of
the head, and woman has been considered as
merely a possessor of the heart; whereas, to
each have both been given. And woman need
not now ignore the fact, that she has a heart
because she begins to comprehend that she has
also a head like that of her lord's; which, if
she can but gain an opportunity, she can use to
advantage. But let man learn that as the Bible 
teaches, it was simply a rib, not a heart that
was taken from him; and he being still the
owner of a heart, is expected to exercise some
of its chief excellencies in making himself, and
assisting to make his home and the world what
he would have them and what they should be.


