FLORAL HINTS.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov, 3rd 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Clothed in garments of white, grim frost
has appeared, and laid low very many of
our floral beauties—of all the year the sad-
dest, when by the thousands our treasures are
rudely blasted, and in an hour lose form,
fragrance and beauty—and we helpless to
avert the evil.—Well it is good to look at
the other side and think, how many days,
weeks, months in the past year we have
been daily greeted with the smiles of the
flowers—Aye! a long season of delight, from
early February, till the end of October!
nine long blooming months. Now with the
score or two of pots for winter blooming and
parlor gardening, ought we not to be satis-
fied till the genial warmth of spring shall
awaken our thousand-hued flowers, and
woo them back to life, and our glad wel-
come?
	If it is desired to have bulbs for winter
flowering, and they are not yet planted, lose
no time. Select, hard, firm, heavy, smooth
specimens, place them in the pots so that
the bulb is just fairly covered with moist
dust, firmly pressed down and against the
bulb. Now place your pots in cold frame-
cellar—closet—or any dark place of even


temperature, say about 50° give a little
moisture as needed—but not too much, and
let them remain till the roots pretty well
fill the pot and top starts—now bring to the
parlor, gradually exposing to light, sun, and
heat, and you will be very likely to have
what you wish—bloom vigorous, sweet,
lovely.
	It is little use to bring to the heated par-
lor, flowering plants with umbrageous tops,
and scanty weak roots, for you will have to
nurse, and doctor a long time before you
are paid with blossoms. Unless you know
something of flower culture, or mean to
learn by practice, it would be best to rely
upon the judgment of some honest florist for
selection of winter blooming plants and
those otherwise for ornament.
	Now good sisters—whatever you do, or
don't accomplish—be sure you don't fail to
have a few pots of flowers in the house, and
take good care of them and teach your
children to care for them daily.
