AN INTERESTING LETTER.
LAIE, Oahu, Oct. 5, 1874.
President Brigham Young:
	Thinking you would like to know how I am
progressing with my department of the Hawai-
ian Mission, I send you the following report.
	I am very happy to state that, after unre-
mitting perseverance, I have succeeded in es-
tablishing a good English school on Laie.
	We arrived here on the 3rd of June, 1873.
On the 16th I commenced my school with four
native children. In a few days the number in-
creased to seven. Since the first of January,
1874, the average daily attendance has been
twenty. On the 16th of June, just one year
from the opening of my school, I had a public
examination and exhibition. There were pre-
sent one of the school agents of this district, the
district judge, many of the parents and friends
of the pupils, also Bros. Mitchell, Cluff and
Richards, and sister Mitchell. The number of 
pupils present was 24, including three of Bro.
M's children.
	The exercises consisted of spelling, reading,
writing, mental and written arithmetic, and
geography, also recitations and dialogues and
singing. The examination lasted five hours,
including a short intermission at noon. During
the whole of the time there was not a failure.
The native children deported themselves in a
manner that would have been creditable to a
more enlightened people. Bro. Mitchell's little
girls have attended the school from its com-
mencement. They have made rapid progress in
their studies. They passed a good examination
of a higher grade than the natives, and were
quite a help to me in getting up the exhibition
They also played a number of pieces on the or-
gan, which added much to the entertainment.
At the close of the examination, Bros. Mitchell
and Cluff, the school agent, the district judge,
and other leading men of the place, made some
very appropriate addresses to the pupils and 
their parents. All expressed themselves well
pleased with the progress the pupils had made
in their English studies, and encouraged them
to continue at the school. Bro. Mitchell has
done all in his power to make the school a suc-
cess. He has talked to the people, both in pub-
lic and private, telling them of the advantages
to be derived from an English education. The
rest of the brethren have rendered what assist-
ance they could.
	Financially, the school has not been a suc-
cess; those who patronize it are generally poor,
and after having paid government and school
taxes, and getting the common necessaries of
life, they have but little left for the payment of
school bills. I charge them twenty cents per
week per scholar, which is five cents cheaper
than other schools of the same grade that have
assistance from the government. But I am here
on a mission to benefit the people all I can, and
not to oppress them by charging exorbitant
prices for what I do for them. I only want a
living, and that in the most economical style.
	As all or nearly all of the English schools
are receiving subsidies from the government,
Brother Mitchell thought it advisable for me
to apply to the Board of Education for some as-
sistance. I did so, and corresponded with the
President of said Board. He replied that when
the present session of the Legislature closed,
they would have a meeting, and my case would 
be considered.
	Not long since I was in Honolulu, and called
on Dr. J. M. Smith, the secretary of the Board
of Education. I had a very pleasant interview
with him; I gave him a report of my school,
with which he was much pleased, and said he
would do all he could to procure assistance for
me. Since that time I have received a letter
from him, stating that he had presented my case
to the Board at its meeting, that it was duly
considered, and that my efforts to promote the
educational interests of the country were duly
appreciated, but the means at present under its
control would not permit of any new outlays,
and that the strictest economy would have to be
exercised to meet its present numerous obliga-
tions.
	I venture to add a few words about our Sun-
day school. Our average attendance is fifty,
ranging from five to fifty years of age. I have
a class of three boys and nine girls, who read in
the English Testament. They are learning
well, and are punctual in attendance. With the
exception of two, they are pupils from my day 
school.
	The children and people, as far as I know,
feel well towards me, and as they express it,
"Aloha nui ia oe." They wish me to remain
with them. I make a special point to study
their character, in order to know what course to
pursue with them to result in the most good. I
am well pleased with my mission here; the
time passes very pleasantly; the climate agrees
with my health; I am not in the least degree
home sick, and am willing to remain here as
long as I can do good to the people, or as long
as I am desired to stay.
Brother Alma L. Smith has arrived. He
is well and feeling well.
	Our Conference commences to-morrow.
We are all here now; the young brethren have
returned from their fields of labor on the other
islands to attend conference. They are feeling
well.  We are all well and in excellent spirits.
	Please remember me kindly to your family
and the brethren in the offices.
	May peace and prosperity ever attend you.
—Deseret News.		M. E. RANDALL.


