	         BY MRS. L. B. PRATT. 

	My Dear Young Friends:—I have desired
to address you on this occasion, because I
feel my heart swell with interest for your
well being in all time to come. Many wise
instructions and sanitary counsels have you
received in this house, from those who have
a watch care over you, and from our honored
leaders who preside over this branch of the
Church of which you are members. Shield-
ed as you are by such protecting care, it
seems natural to suppose that there would
be no danger that you could be led astray;
neither is there any while you watch and
pray for yourselves; but remember the
tempter is always nigh, and will seek the
opportune moment to spread out his snares;
and his specious appearance is so alluring
that the most innocent will sometimes, in
an unguarded moment, lend a listening ear,
and find her mind involved. Oh! what a
blessing to a young girl, to have a careful,
watchful mother! and how blessed is the
daughter who will on all important occasions
seek her mother's counsel. When I look
back on my long life, I can recall many cir-
cumstances which came under my imme-
diate observation, wherein some beautiful
life was wrecked, through mere condescen-
sion and sympathy; I will relate one in-
stance.
	A pure-minded young girl who had been
carefully reared by religious parents, a sweet
tempered, amiable, obedient girl who loved
all good, and loved God with a perfect
heart, went to teach school in a district re-

[Column 2]
mote from the village where she had been
reared. She took boarding in a family
where were a number of young men and
women, brothers and sisters. The young
men were clever in business, active and en-
terprising. The whole family were rough
and unrefined, cared nothing about religion.
The daughters were more susceptible of cul-
tivation and improvement in mind and
manners. The new teacher was the pride
of the house. They felt a holy reverence
in her presence. One of the young men
immediately made love to her; he could be
anything for her sake; he could go every
Sabbath to public worship, leave off his pro-
fanity which he had practiced from child-
hood; whiskey and tobacco were repudiated
as obnoxious and proscriptive. Surely, the
humble girl thought, a soul was saved in the 
redemption of this young man. She went
to her revered father and mother to ask
their consent to marry him. Her mother,
less penetrating and observant of human
character than the father, was more inclined
to trust her daughter's judgment; but her
father, filled with wisdom and understand-
ing, knowing the origin of the family, set
his right foot heavily on the floor, replied
with great emphasis, "my daughter, do you
not know, that light and darkness cannot
dwell together?" he would not give his con-
sent. The daughter went back with a firm
resolve to break the intimacy; but alas!
how feeble were her resolves. Her lover
was not to be trifled with. He solemnly
protested she should be his, or he would
hang himself some night before her door,
and she should forever bear the blame.
She had not power to resist his entreaties,
and threatenings, and so they were married.
Six months had scarcely passed away, till
she saw her hopes of a new life in the man
she had wedded, all blown to the four winds;
his old nature was still there, as unlike hers
as the wolf and lamb are unlike.
	Years passed away, and she had grown
daughters when I knew them. Her sister
in telling me the tale of the young girl's
woe, wept with as much apparent anguish,
as though she had stood gazing upon her
lifeless form, clad in the habiliments of the
grave. The poor woman at length rose
abover her sorrows, left her gross companion,
and lived with a good and loving daughter.
Her whole being seemed consecrated to the
love of God. If any woman was ever puri-
fied by affliction, and made perfect through 
suffering, that one truly was. Dearly did
she pay for disobeying her father.
	Another instance I will relate to show a
striking contrast. I knew a little girl in
Salt Lake City, many years ago. She was
good and gentle, loving and humble like
the one above described. She was an un-
derstanding child, loved the gospel, and
clave to her mother with great devotion,
her father having died in her infancy.
Years rolled away, she grew to be a woman
and was married ere I met her again and
learned her history. Her mother told me
how true and faithful she had been to her in
all her trials (which had been many,) how
true to God and her religion! She told me
herself how in her early life she had re-
solved never to encourage the attentions of
any gentleman with whom her mother was
not pleased, she said, "I knew I never
could be happy with any one, of whom my
mother did not approve. So when a gen-
tleman called to see me, I would notice par-
ticularly whether 'ma' seemed favorably
impressed with his conversation and gen-
eral deportment; if she did not, I would
give no encouragement." At length one
came, who pleased them both, he was firm


in the gospel, good, and agreeable she was
married to him when she was eighteen
years of age. He was son-like towards her
mother; so she was made happy through her
obedience, without being compelled to pass
through the scathing fires like the other
poor girl.
	Do you not, my young friends, see plainly
that "obedience is better than sacrifice?"
The scriptures have declared it, and here
you have  illustrated. I congratulate you
on having such a shield thrown around you:
be thankful for wise and judicious parents:
in yielding your wills to their direction you
will please both them and your Father in
heaven. Sometime in the future I will ad-
dress you on the laws of health, if you de-
sire it, and on social habits. Keep this
maxim always fresh in your mind. "Wis-
dom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth
darkness."
			H. S. SHEPHERD. Secretary.
	BEAVER, Nov. 6th, 1874.


