FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A DEVENPORT (Iowa) man lately shipped
2,800 barrels of onions for the East. Profit,
$1.60 per barrel.
	THE French people produce more eggs
than any other and ship millions of them to
England annually.
	W.P. ANDERSON of Albany has recently
been awarded a patent for a clod crusher of
his own invention.
	THERE is an orchard fifty years old in
Sonoma county, California, and some of the
trees are still producing good crops.
	THE public school children of California
contributed $1,780,44 to the Lincoln Monu-
ment, dedicated by President Grant at 
Springfield, Ills., recently.
	THE Chicago Public Library, founded
just after the great fire, has now 40,000 vol-
umes. It is supported by a tax of one-fifth
of a mill, which already gives an income of
$65,000 a year.
	THERE are about one hundred millions of
people on the face of the globe who would
regard the loss of their daily cup of coffee
as one of the greatest privations they could
endure, although it is only for the last two
hundred years that coffee has been gener-
ally known to the civilized world. 
	THE Washington Insane Asylum contains
at present fifty patients, nine of whom are
females. The rate paid to the contractor,
Mr. Harmon, for their keeping is ninety-one
cents per day for each patient. This in-
cludes board, clothing and washing. The
Territory pays for medical attention.
	CRUSOE'S Island is said to be to-day a lit-
tle Paradise. Lord planted there, on one of
his voyages apples, peaches, grapes,
plums, strawberries and several kinds of
vegetables. The number of the latter was
increased by a Scotchman, David Doug-
las, who landed on the island in 1826.


For the EXPONENT.
		A LESSON ON MATRIMONY.
MRS. EDITRESS:
	Will you, me one kindly favor do? Pub-
lish this meek note I send, of a pleasant
lady friend. Dear Electa, fair and gentle
—Ah! I'm growing sentimental! Well, 'tis
this, she's married now; she may tell you
where and how. Only this would I be stat-
ing, 'twas a happy time for mating. All
their friends are now declaring, since she's
taken to Manwaring, both seem happier
than ever, both are wiser and more clever;
both as bright as rosy June, 'mid their au-
tumn honey-moon.
			MORAL.
	Ho! young men and maidens hear! Mark
their course and persevere. Fear ye not,
ye tardy men, that a day approaches when
Judges will do all the courting, and arrest
you for such sporting? Then as days grow
cold and colder, wax ye lovers bold and
bolder; make an earnest, sure advance,
while you still may have a chance. Ah! I
see there's one objection to that sort of fond
connection. How your purse string oft
relaxes, now for debts, donations, taxes.—
Never mind if you're expert you can buy a
wedding shirt. Therefore, let your spirits
soften—"marry young and marry often;"
take a mutual friend's advice, never stop at
it once or twice.
				FIDEI DEFENSOR.
	S.L. City, Nov. 8th, 1874.


