READING.
Dear Exponent:—
	This is essentially a reading age, and
Zion's children are not one whit behind
their worldly neighbors in this respect, es-
pecially her daughters. Our girls who are
growing up to womanhood, as a rule have
more or less spare time, which hangs heavy
on their hands. Therefore they take to
reading to while away the tedium of the
hour. But what is the nature of the read-
ing which they indulge in? Let us select
one of those fair daughters of Zion who is
at the time literally buried in books and pe-
riodicals. One from whose physique, per-
sonal appearance and native charms, under
a correct and pure culture might ennoble
her to grace and ornament any position in
society, and view what engrosses her atten-
tion. What a revulsion do our feelings
undergo, not at the sight of Bible, Book of
Mormon, "Juvenile Instructor," Woman's
Exponent and such like wishy washy com-
pilations. But hark! listen to the array of
literary gems which burst with dazzling
brilliancy upon our vision. Scintillations of
genius, not flashing at stated intervals like
meteors amid the heavens, but filling every
nook and corner from cellar to attic in the
vilest hovels in the land. Home Circles,
Literary Companions, Ledgers, Day's Do-
ings, Fireside Friends, &c. Sisters, pause,
reflect, consider. Ask yourselves the ques-
tion does the perusal of this "Home Circle"
which our Eastern friends (Heaven save the
mark) supply, tend to increase the happi-
ness of our own tangible "home circle?"
Does it fit and prepare us for the stern reali-
ties of life to which, as Saints of the Most
High, we should look forward? What is
the use of mincing matters? Does it in the
least prepare us to become mothers in Israel?
which should be one of our highest aims in
this world. Will it enable us to train those
miniatures of men and women which our
Heavenly Father may entrust to our care?
Or does it not fill us with romantic feelings
removed millions of miles above those and
other domestic duties which must necessa-
rily fall to our lot?
	Do our "Evening Posts" keep us posted
in the things which tend to improve our
mental or intellectual stature, teaching
us the things which will prove benefi
cial to us here and hereafter? Or is it
as the opium eater who by a course of
debauchery renders himself an imbecile
both in mind and body? Yea, disguise it
as we may, the awful truth stares us in the
face, that we are rapidly drifting towards
that God-forsaken state, when stimulants
are required to keep us from losing our men-
tal equilibrium. What could be more hor-
rible to contemplate! rational, reasoning
beings, the counterpart of their maker in
such a predicament! having a semblance
of God's creatures but utterly incapable of
filling the responsible positions required of
such. Not on account of the niggardly
hand of nature, but through a false course
of training. Like the pampered epicure,
the confirmed novel reader, when the
slightest break occurs in the stream of in-
toxicating fiction cries, Oh! give me some-
thing to supply the cravings of my appe-
tite. Present that to their vitiated appetites
which would prove wholesome, solid and
substantial food for the mind in a healthy
condition, and it is repulsed with scorn and
loathing. Who is going to remedy this
growing giant of evil in our midst? Will
preaching do it? Nay, or it would have
been accomplished years ago. Sisters this
is a home task and each one for herself or it
never will be accomplished. Therefore
weigh well what has been taught you in
this respect. Consider those your friends
who have the hardihood to tell you that
the course you are pursuing is an erroneous
one. Be up and alive to your duties, rather
have your name appear on the credit list of
your Heavenly Father's Ledger than on
that of our "New York friends." Harken
not to the sophisms of those whose gain it
is to supply you with these death diffusing
decoctions. Give the wholesome viands a
trial and rejoice ever after, as living reali-
ties; thanking God for your deliverance
from under the enthralling, debasing influ-
ence of fiction.			W. K. REID
	Manti, Sanpete Co., U. T.


