				SCIENCE.

	Mr. Liefchild has written a work on the 
above subject now engaging the attention 
of scientists to the excluison, frequenlty, of
common sense. It is interesting to note
the views of Dr. Crosby, by whom an intro-
duction of the above work has been writ-
ten. Without entering into the arena of 
controversy where the bonds of creation are
contending so vigorously, we may quote a 
part of Dr. Crosby’s opinion upon the sub-
ject at issue:  	
	“The royal Psalmist said, “The heavens
declare the glory of God, and the firma-
ment showeth his handy work.” The mod-
ern Huxleys respond: “The heavens de-
clare nothing at all, and the firmament is
ultimately but eternal protoplasm." In this
happy and hopeful response the materialists
are as much traitors to science as enemies
to religion. They ignore all the facts of
mind. This whole department of cogni-
tions is neglected in arranging their prem-
ises. The very first canon of science is thus
violated, which demands that all facts 
be collated as data. Then, a second fallacy
of which they are guilt is, leaving scientific


proof and leaping, by the imagination, to
the conclusion that life is merely matter. 
They find an ultimate matter (only ultimate, 
however, owing to the limited power of the
microscope), and straightway say, "This is
life," although it is known to exist without
life, and has not a single characteristic of
life in it. By such unscientific methods
these scientific men, whose names are now
so famous, have imposed upon the un-
learned and credulous, and made men lose
their faith in the eternal truths of God.
Darwinism is another form of the same in-
fidelity, working its evil by the same un-
scientific methods. Darwin leaps to his
conclusions against every axiom of science,
and Darwinism is, instead of science, mere
theory. Science and Religion are as one.
They both come from God and lead to God.
"The heavens declare the glory of God,"
and "the statutes of the Lord are right, re-
joicing the heart," are accordant strings of
the same harp.
	We need sensible and learned men to come
forward and show the world what fools these
pseudo-scientists are, and thus break the
spell, which is as groundless as the Cock-
lane Ghost, but which holds so many all-
agape at their fantastic tricks."


