HOME AFFAIRS
	The Utah Southern Railroad is to be ex-
tended as far South as Santaquin, in a short
time. 
	At the Utah Iron works at Iron city, iron is
being produced in considerable quantities
and said to be of good quality.
	Colds are now prevalent—and bad ones too,
for, as a gentleman remarked to us, we never
hear of any person's having a good one.
	A hard winter seems to be generally ex-
pected throughout this Territory. Several days
since, some of the canyon roads were closed up
by snow.
	The proposition to establish a company to
engage in the manufacture of brushes, is under


consideration by the 14th Ward Branch of the 
United Order.
	THE LITTLE article entitled "Don't let talent
rust," which appeared in our issue of Novem-
ber first, was a selection, and did not belong to
us.  The EXPONENT being credited with its
orginality was a mistake.
	BRIGHAM CITY appears to take the lead in
this Territory, in finding resources for home-
manufacture of various kinds. Mrs. Mary
Stark of that city, is teaching some of the
young ladies how to make artificial flowers, as
beautiful, so it is said by those who have seen
them, as any imported.
	THE PROVO factory is turning out nine hun-
dred yards of cloth daily at present. Measures
are being taken to procure additional machin-
ery, sufficient to fill the capacity of the build-
ing, when, it is estimated, two thousand yards
of fabric will be produced daily.
	THE ARTICLE entitled "A Home of Our
Own," a portion of which appears in this issue,
although lengthy, is so sensible in every par-
ticular, so truthfully and beautifully written,
and by a Woman too, that we doubt not our
readers will peruse it, as we have done, with
exceeding interest.
	WE HAVE viewed with much pleasure, some
beautiful specimens of wax flowers, made by
pupils of Mrs. Zina Y. Williams. Many of our
young ladies might do well to cultivate the
delicate and pleasing tastes with which they
have been endowed, by learning thus to imitate
the beauties of nature in works of their own
hands. 
	IF THE people of Utah were as bad as reports
from their enemies show, would Governor
Woods venture to trust them to the care of 
other officials, while he goes to San Francisco,
as information from that city shows, to prac-
tice law? How is it, with all their imperfec-
tions, they could not furnish sufficient employ-
ment to keep their gubernatorial friend busy?
	PROFESSOR BARFOOT lately delighted us by
allowing us to inspect a most beautiful speci-
men of scarlet Chromic Acid crystals, which he 
has been making from exhausted telegraphic
liquid, for a lady in New York. An hour might
be pleasantly and profitably spent in our City
Museum by any lover of nature and art; its
collections of pleasing curiosities are continu
ally increasing and now the price of admission
has been reduced to 25 cents.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA W. Smith who journeys
southward, being one of President Young's
party, writes us from Richfield, Sevier Co., un-
der date of Nov. 4th. The company had "held
meetings at Payson, Nephi, Levan, Gunnison,
Salina and Richfield. At which preaching was
done by President George A. Smith, Patriarch
Wm. G. Young, Dr. S. B. Young, Elders A. M.
Musser and Charles W. Smith. The saints are 
prosperous and healthy—crops light—fall sea-
son very favorable for work."
	VIEWING THE commotion into which the en-
tire country has been thrown through the late
victories won by the Democratic party, natur-
ally gives rise to varied reflections in connec-
tion therewith. Many speculations are formed,
and different opinions expressed, but who can
discover the final results? Present indications
may be that for Utah the prospectst are favor-
able, as all the spouting enemies of her people,
who have lately figured conspicuously at Wash-
ington, are on the shipped side, belonging to
the Republican party, But Satan is not yet
subdued, and while he nas power to wage war
with the defenders of truth and justice, the
Saints need not look for a rest of long dura-
tion.


