		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Boiling.— Rice boiled slowly will swell out
better and not adhere to the kettle. Heat milk
slowly to avoid burning. 
	Milk Cakes.—Take 1 egg and a pint sweet milk;
add buckwheat flour until the batter is rather stiff;
then add 1 teaspoonful yeast powder, a little salt;
bake quickly. If liked very light, add more yeast
powder.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Scald 1 pint corn meal; when
nearly cold add l pint oat-meal and one of buck-
wheat, a tablespoonful molasses, a little salt, and a
half pint yeast; add water of the same tempera-
ture until a thin batter is made; keep it warm un-
til very light; then bake quickly.
	Mush.— Fill a kettle half full of boiling water;
add salt; when the water boils stir in meal until it
is stiff; then add 1 teacup flour; cook very slowly
half an hour; when cold, slice and roll in flour
and fry, brown in 2 spoonfulls hot lard; or eat
warm, with sugar and butter or sweet milk.
	Cheap Pudding.—Put in a tin pail 2 quarts of
skimmed milk and set it in a kettle of boiling wa-
ter; when very hot, stir into it 1 pint of meal; take
from the fire and add 1 teacup molasses, 1 tea-
spoonful of salt and one of cinnamon; bake in a
buttered cake-pan; use cream sauce, flavored with
nutmeg.
	To Clean Gloves-—Make a thick mucilage by
boiling a little flaxseed, to which add a little dis-
solved soap, and when the mixture cools wipe the
gloves with a piece of white flannel, previously
fitting them to the hand. Use only enough of the
cleansing mixture to take off the dirt without wet-
ting through the glove.	
	Corn Bread.—Take equal quantities of corn
meal and flour (or rye flour) scald the meal by
pouring a little boiling water on it; when nearly
cold add the flour, the same quantity of yeast as
used for other kinds of bread and a little melted
lard and salt; make the dough stiff  and knead it;
put it in a warm place to rise and bake it longer
than other kinds of bread.
	Eggs vs. Meat.—Would it not be wise to sub-
stitute more eggs for meat in our daily diet?
About one-third of the weight of an egg is solid
nutriment. This is more than can be said of meat.
There are no bones or tough pieces that have to be
laid aside. A good egg is made up of ten parts
shell, sixty parts white and thirty parts yolk. The

[Column 2]
white of an egg contains eighty-six per cent water;
the yolk fifty-two per cent. The average weight
of an egg is about two ounces. Practically an egg
is animal food and yet there is none of the disa-
greeable work of the butcher necessary to obtain it.
The vegetarians of England use eggs freely, and
many of these men are eighty and ninety years old
and have been remarkably free from illness. A
good egg is alive. The shell is porous and the
air goes through the shell and keeps up a kind of
respiration. An egg soon becomes stale in bad
air or in dry air charged with carbonic acid. Eggs
may be dried and made to retain their goodness for
a long time, or the shell may be varnished, which
excludes the air, when, if kept in a moderate tem-
perature; they may be kept fresh for years. Fresh
eggs are more transparent at the center, old ones
on the top. Very old ones are not transparent in
either place. In water in which one-tenth of salt
has been dissolved, good eggs sink and indifferent
ones swim. Bad eggs float in pure water. The
best eggs are laid by young, healthy hens. If
they are properly fed the eggs are better than if
they are allowed to eat all kinds of food. Eggs
are best when cooked four minutes. This takes
away the animal taste that is offensive to some,
but does not so harden the white or yolk as to
make them hard to digest. An egg if cooked very
hard is difficult of digestion, except by those with
stout stomachs; such eggs should be eaten with
bread and masticated very finely. An excellent
sandwich can be made with eggs and brown bread.
An egg spread on toast is food fit for a king, if
kings deserve any better food than anybody else,
which is doubtful. Fried eggs are less whole-
some than boiled ones. An egg dropped in hot
water is not only a clean and handsome but a de-
licious morsel. Most people spoil the taste of
their eggs by adding pepper and salt. A little
sweet butter is the best dressing. Eggs contain
much phosphorus, which is supposed to be useful
to those who use their brains much.—Poultry Re-
view.


