DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:—
	I have just been reading the "Juvenile
Instructor" for September 26ht. Something
in Mr. Higginson's letter from Spanish
Fork, took my attention; and I thought I 
would like to make a remark upon it through
the EXPONENT. He writes about the Span-
ish Fork Sunday School having an excur-
sion to Aitkin's Park, or Lake Side, “a de-
lightful spot, situated on the east side of
Utah Lake, near the mouth of Spanish
Fork River.” And he says: “On arriving
at the pleasure grounds, we were welcomed
with applause and demonstrations of joy by
the residents of Lake Side, who had volun-
tarily erected a bowery for our reception,
and were proffering each his services, with
the use of his respective boat to happify the
guests.”
	When I read this, I thought, what a good,
kind, truly Christian spirit must actuate the
people of that little town, Lake Side. And
I wished in my heart that all the people, in 
all our settlements, could feel like that to-
ward each other; not only upon excursion 
days, or in times of pleasure and merry-
making, but in all their business transac-
tions, and affairs of every day life as well. 
If we felt and acted with such good will to-
wards all, we would “love our neighbors as
ourselves” I think.			GUESS WHO.


﻿The striking success of Miss Thompson in
the Royal Academy exhibition at London has
called attention to the English female
schools of art, in the leading one of which,
that at South Kensington, she was once a
student. We have before us an account of
the distribution of prizes at the Bloomsbury
school, at which the archbishop of York offi-
ciated. It appears from the report that
there are 124 schools of the kind in the
United Kingdom and 23,843 students in 
them. There are five grades of competi-
tion; one open to all the schools; one for the
individual school, for prizes presented by
the queen, and by the science and art de-
partment; the third for certificates of excel-
lence in various branches and of efficiency
as teachers; the fourth for a recently en-
dowed two-years scholarship; and, finally,
for prizes given from time to time by friends
of the school. The grand exhibition is held
at the South Kensington school, and, in
speaking of the astonishing progress in art
culture made in England, in recent years,
Mr. Hawley, R. A., stated that no fewer
than 180,000 works have been sent thither
from the various schools. Miss Thompson's
genius is a spur and exemplar to these
young women, now that she has so brilliantly
achieved recognition by her “Roll Call”— 
“Woman’s Journal.”


THE latest and most plausible plan brought
forward for running street cars in cities
without the aid of horses is a foreign de-
vice, in which the motive power used is an
arrangement of powerful springs incased in
cylinders, like watch-springs, of course on
a very large scale, and the application of
which to the cars now employed is said to
be extremely simple and easy. These
springs are wound up by small stationary
steam engines at each terminus of the line,
and when so wound up will propel the cars,
even with stoppages, for a longer distance
than any existing line of this kind extends.
The action is reversible, the application of
the brake-power in every respect satisfac-
tory, and the working of the whole thing
is pronounced a success.


