		QUESTIONS﻿.

	Is it a crime for woman to love?
Do not the angels in courts above?

Is it a crime to love unsought?
Yea, so the wise old world hath taught.

What if affection past her control
Mingled with hope should enter her soul,

Must they be stifled, forever unknown,
Hid in her breast as a diamond stone?

Or if she dare this love to betray,
Tell, she has given her young heart away,

Should she be treated as foolish and weak
because she has ventured his favor to seek?

If she believes him noble and pure,
One who will ever faithful endure,

Is she to blame for loving that man?
Now critics, answer me "Yes" if you can.
							Queery.


vantage
is....

ntageqrfortKej
vulgarity.!.-s
nppearanceof advantage;
J..a. pjib3 oj.edit.dwr.‘,.
' uTlra'EiaA sivhNEiu
v. , ;	’...:
tPerhapS every man, 1 think every woman;
I--am"quite sure every happily married
couple, no matter how public and undomes-
tic their present life, cherish somewhere
down in their hearts an ideal of a future
homestead. I do not mean ri castle in Spain,
buttho possible house which, wheqa few
possible things turn up, they mean to live
in, and to the thought of which they cling
even more and more fondly as the unfulfilh
ing years, go by. On the :days when the
surface glitter and rattle of life and the om-
nipresent; stare Of people's eyes become un-
endurable, we comfort ourselves with build-
ing, in fancy, a higher hedge around that
homestead. In the days whori millinery
openings, and the emanation? of fresh-stirred
city dirt-heaps remind us that somewhere
it; is spring, we find relief in considering
whether we would better sod the lawn or
sow it with grass-seed, when we get that
home of our own, When the friend of our
youth comes to seo usand wo negotiate
with the hotel clerk for an extra, seat at the
table, or ponder in which theatre to spend
our evening, wo take a half unconscious
undercurrent of solace in furnishing thb
spare chamber- and building an extravagant
fire on the hearth of that home of bur own.
When tlib boarding-house plario is especially
out. "of tune, When the hoarding-house' fare
is more than usually stale, flatjftnd unprofit-
able, when a Certain person cuts us on the
street, yea, when the curbstone Ot the. cross-
ing.’ waslhighor than we thought and we
have Stubbed otir-toe, WO think to ourselves
in. dudgeon,‘ bit woifit he so when we'liaye a
home-of our dWn.h '  '		1
MayJ hot have my ideM as well; as an-
other? ; I;have, AridTdesire; dear reader, tp
compare it’‘with yours: Supposing;'the;
house to be the body wherein .dwells", that'
spirit which wo call the!home;r shall’fd6.
my notion ,Of a home and’ fit my hottse there-
to..-	-
First—It-should be ecbnomical.
The ideal of a honiestead, to be of pipCp
value, should be one" that is accsiiplrito
that portion of the community Which ijr
moStnimportftht1 to suit—whiefi 'portion 1
take to be,.not fhe-foo poor, whcahnothfell
be-suited hof the too rich,'who can1 genius
ally manage1to get; iri one or another;waste-
ful way; more' than they havb'ramed the
riglit-to; but those who do th6 worjds WOrk
and wield the World's force?, and neOd rind,
must have the best of its advantage.
Economy, if we may trust our dictionary,
is that management of ourTeSOUrces which,
expend? to advantage without Incurring
waste. To violate this principle is! to vio-
late true taste; for expenditure Without ad-
Cd a house
i The first of our many mistakes Was a vio-
lation of true-economy, and-therefore'of
truo art, in roakjng;Qur dwelling, top-large.
There Is Scarcely a room in it, which might
noThavo been somewhat smaller, ancT still
retained'its pleasantness and convenience.
It is true there have been a. few times when
this extra spaCb Was both a .pleasure and
a, convenience;, but a.honaa is supposed .to
bq planned fpr .ordinary and not extraoirdw
nary occasions: or, asDr. Fuller expresses
it;'!“Better to small for H day than too large-
for a year.” ‘' "r	"
Our next mistake was in the same direc-
tion—ceilings too high. If a ceiling is suf-
ficiently raised to prevent the heated air
jfrOm: falling back upon Our beads with a
periSQ of oppression it is obviously high
phqugh. Every foot above this ia an addi-
tion to the cost :of building, and the after
cost of heating, without a Corresponding
advantage.-		
“But,” your architect will argue, “that
has nothing to do witb .it; yoq must make
the hight of your room in a certain propor-
tion to the length and breadthof your room,
or the thing Will look wrong. :.
I, hrioW but little of, architectural. .rules,
but I.know that as there is pne .standard of
proportion for a Grecian temple, with its
vastness and dimness—a staudard growing
out Of its uses—so there ought to be an ut-
terly different standard of proportion for an
American dwelling, which, to be sure,
should grow directly out of its uses. If I
had some reason for requiring one room in
a house to be more than ordinarily long and
broad, I should not feel called upon to makp
it high in proportion, unless I needed the
bight. It would be an expenditure of
means in excess'6f the endy arid .therefore
must be wrong.
Secondly—It should be Atnerican.
Its architecture should fit the heeds of
our own place and time. Iri the good old
days when every man’s house was his castle,
it was so because every man who owned a
bouse was forced to.,makp if a castle forself
protection against his next-door enemy, for
seldom in those days, were there, .any. next
door neighbors. And a V.Ory grririd, impos-
ing, picturesque, inconvqmebt, cheerless,
unwholesome house it must have bdeh;
witli its walls like barracks, and chamber's
like .cells, and windows like slits in a jail.
Instead, of .a pleasant hedge, about, it, noi-
some ditches; , instead of an easy eritraned
to welcome folks in; a gateway, expresslycon-
trived to keep folks out; instead.of: a house
arranged; fo, be kept:jvitb,- the smallest
amopritbf hired spr.vipo, a. menage- necessi-
tating what were known tp the. novelist as
BQvpted .Ttetaipdrs, but, to. the feudal mis-
tress, ns a swarmv of .sfupid; idr.pqkOPj, balf-
mahageable, ever, noisy, qvpr; hungry crea-
tures, whose brawling, disorders nqHSkhrive
made the old-time housewife’s lot. a wearL
npss indeed. '		"
Tile fact-that Gothic architecture, whether
in .the forrri Of caStle1 or batftedral, demands
for its best effects the elements of size arid
massiveness, constitutes an objection, in
mariycasek, to its use In.domestic life; Once
theso elements had a meaning, and-were
therefore beautiful; now they ItaVo none;
and are therefore, ugljv  And.yet, without
site they-are more or less:ridiculous,  I re-
member speing,..yerrs ago-rr-on the Hudson,
I think—a castle, which .by “riiaking be-
lieve’fa; gpod deal, you could ;alraost per-
suade yourself; was the. real thing. You
must half shut your eyefef and. play that
the ;treps wcjrp Very largeyand the rocks
Werpipreciifices, hndTthen you could almost
imagine’thbt you expected to see a party of
Do Bracy’s Free Companions stream out
from under its portals, with banners waving 
arid trumpets blaring, and'hbrses 'neighing"
for conflict with somebody across the road.'
When next I saw..that castle, alaal the.dxeam . 
was o’er. A heartless business, man, some
mere useful person, had put up a large,
plain, square, brick factory close by, and
four times the size of the castle which,
henceforth, no malto-believe could call any-
thing but a toy.	-
Dot us, then, preserve: the iriediqvrihstyles
pf architecture in our pictures, tuf we ‘pre-
serve tile medieval habits in our poem? and
talcs, apdnpply to our own lives only siich
features: of each a?, suit our own peculiar
rieeds. The ideal bouse of the robin is it
nest, and nothing else- would become berj
that of the Indian a Wigwam, and noth!pig'
so pictpesqupl that of the war-iike barph,‘a
Aste, and nothing ejse sp fitting; that of
the dweller, inunny;lahds an arcliltectnro
graceful and airy as .thab of Which Milton
spoaks, which “rpso like an: exHaiatfon'
tliqt of'the. civilized American. Of thoLhihet;,
tecuth century, a style neither Boman, nor.
Grecian, nor Moorish,- nor even English but
American, retaini’bg such feature? Only of
plder styles as suit the. modem rieC(i and
adding thereto yithout . scrup)q whate.Ver:
previously, unheard-of "featurQ may be de-
manded by an. American: climate, soil; and
social customs. Arid ashere -has bperi the
history of all Other worthy ‘Orders, of arepi-
tectiire, and as bearify jdiffenfigitye3;l(as;
bqen the result, I .kn.Qv hot why. wft ahould-
fear to. trust the same principle' in our: case
to bring the same result.	-k
Thirfl—It should be healthful.
T(6 this end p true ccjririrny demands'.thxyf
we expend large, proportion pflourihuilUr.
ingmoney, in securing, .a JnlL supply-of.'the:
very best-quality of sunshine, Waterhir
and fire : Det the bliildfng be so p.faeed, if
possihie, that the;,Sun shall eritqxOvery ppOntt
at.some time , of tbq . day, This is. InowjjSpiV
well understood that .It needs.no special in-
sistance. Let the ventilation be- as -far riS;
possible, automatic, so that it cprirtot be Neg-
lected or interfered with by unthinking
persons. And let carp be taken thatp.iioflL 
drained sink shall harbor an eyil spirit to
arise in vapor from its pipo like1 the Gfenii
from hi? jar, and slay an uriwdry horisebbid." ';
Qnly second in InipOrtanco.to WhaVwp pdt,
is the kind of air wp breathe; and;this;for,
at least, seven months in the. year, is largely
nffected by the contrivance? adopted to keep 1
us warm.	”	V!... 
There is your- open fircplap Jgood for
ventilation', unexceptionabip :;n.ppetryi .phor-
ciou3 .in old. folk’s memories; a? they sit in A.
furriaCe-warmed room, and; call up pictures'
pf"the circle roiipd; a blazing hearth some,
jifty'.b.ars', ago; beautiful anA,.'inspiring It
certainly is, and;much tQ.'bq.prizqd ajujr-v 
urious addiiion to..Other', heating arrange-
ments; holding about the same relation to'-
such as flowers at Idinner hold to meat;' bu;
As a chief reliance, the hearth is priisfacl-
lory. If, like a beaf?teak, we, could broil
first.one side, then the other, and then- be
done, it Were well: With us; but its sopn as
wo turn our broiled side’away frouri’ljthe
beat, cold draughts, seize. Upon 'an4J
straightway that.side become?-more. raw:...
than before
Coal stoves in the separate robm? are called
economical; but attendant on these' cornq irij
cessan’t coal-heaving, burnt 'air, ’ dustj'ariql
ashes, vexation of spirit; also liability, to ,di-
vorce,. for what man or woman, washover;'
i
HWKBWep?eSCa®!SC33SSS6aSi5
nrm'-Kw


known to yield supremacy to another in the
art of keeping up a fire?
	Next in order comes the ordinary hot-air,
or as it is often called, gas furnace. The
name is a good one, if applied to its habit of
emitting about such an atmosphere as sin-
ners are taught to dread in the hot hereafter.
Here, also, there are degrees of sulphure-
ousness, but with the best of them flowers
will shrivel and silver articles tarnish, and
human lungs accustomed to it grow danger-
ously sensitive to outside air. Steam-heat-
ing, although a great improvement on the
burnt-air method, involves some slight dis-
advantages; the coils of unsightly pipe in
each room must be elaborately covered and
also occupy space: and in rooms so heated
we are apt to notice here and there a little
saucer under the joints of the pipe, from
which we may infer that it is difficult to
keep these joints water-tight. There is,
however, an improvement on the steam-
pipes, and it is one of which I can speak
with the authority of experience. In it the
air, brought fresh from out-of-doors and con-
ducted in boxes over coils of steam-pipe in
the cellar, rises thence through the registers.
It can never be burned, can never be dry,
can never be mixed with suicidal gases; it
is so bland in its warmth, that a room full of
it at Christmas is like a room full of May;
and a proof of its purity is that garden
plants thrive in it; ferns and lycopodiums
will preserve their dewy softness, instead of
rattling, as they do, in furnace heat; and 
even camellias will keep the promises they
made in the green-house, and not, as is their
wont, cast down their half-filled waxen buds
in despair.
	Such a heating apparatus costs more than
a common furnace, but the increase in
healthfulness is so far beyond the increase
in expense, that if I were advising a party
about to make that home of their own, I
should say, do without your parlor mantel,
if need be, leave your walls unpapered,
your ceilings unstuccoed, your windows un-
curtained, yea, your floors uncarpeted, but
put away money enough to get a furnace for
steam-heated air. 
