NEW YORK WOMEN JOURNALISTS.

	The following sketches of women journal-
ists of New York city, appeared some
months ago in the Cincinnati "Chronicle and
Times." Since then a number of women
writers have made themselves famous, as
journalists in that metropolis both as pro-
prietors and editors, which are not included
in these sketches:
	The number of women who figure on the
metropolitan press may no longer be count-
ed. Among the daily journals, at least,
their name is legion, and not a few of the 
most influential weeklies own much of their
interest to the sprightly characteristics of
the feminine pen. In this department, if
in no other, woman stands the acknow-
ledged equal of her masculine contempora-
ries; and the only question which affects
her advancement in any branch of the pro-
fession is her fitness for the duties of that
branch. Hence we see Middy Morgan, in 
her coarse boots and short skirts, plodding
through the mire of the city stock-yards as
stock editor of the "Times," while the
charming little widow of a "Herald" re-
porter takes up her husband's pen just
where he lays it down, and carries out his
unfinished programme with as much exacti-
tude as if she had been all her life accus-
tomed to the work. One of the strongest
and most indefatigable writers on the "Star"
is a Shepardess. It is said that the only re-
deeming quality in the columns of the
"Sun" is what flows from the modifying
quills of two women.
	Miss Booth, of Harper's "Bazar," needs
no introduction. Not only as an editor has
her name become familiar to the literary
world. Mary L. Booth first distinguished
herself as a historian and translator, and
for many years confined herself almost ex-
clusively to those two departments; but
since '67, when she was placed at the head
of the "Bazar," she has contributed greatly
by her rare taste and discrimination toward
making that journal one of the most excel-
lent of its class. Her yearly salary of four
thousand dollars attests the high estimate
of her services by Harper Brothers, though
it by no means limits the annual income or
this industrious woman. Her brain and
pen are ever busy; and notwithstanding her
regular newspaper duties the work of the
translator and chronicler still goes on.
	Another well-known name in the same
department is that of "Jennie June," wife
of D. G. Croly, managing editor of the 
"World," and the controlling spirit in
"Demorest's Monthly." Mrs. Croly's con-

[Column 2]
nection with the New York press probably
dates further back than that of any other
woman so engaged at present. She discov-
ered her literary powers very early in life,
and readily learned to put them to profita-
ble use; at a time, too, when men, the most
appreciative and kindly disposed, were in-
clined to ridicule the idea of woman's fit-
ness for any branch of journalism. She
was first engaged on the "Times," but on 
the establishment of "Demorest's Monthly"
the enterprising proprietors of that periodi-
cal offered her a larger salary, and enticed
her away to the sanctum of fashion. There
she has remained over since; and from
there have gone forth the thousands of 
mainifold letters which have made her nom
de plume a household name throughout the
land. This system of correspondence was
orginated by "Jennie June," and proved
to be one of the happy hits of her literary
career. Beginning, of course, on a small
scale, she gradually won her way as an au-
thority on questions of dress, till before
many years nearly every prominent journal
in the country was glad to boast of "Jennie
June" as its fashion contributor; and to-day
that branch of her work alone realizes to
its projector a handsome income. At one
time she prepared and dispatched every
one of these letters herself, but long since
she delegated that unenviable task to a
competent clerk, contenting herself with
merely dictating the form, and afterward
appropriating the greenback returns, minus
a certain percentage.
	Scarcely less known than Mrs. Croly; or
less popular, is Mary Clemmer Ames, of the
"Independent." Mrs. Ames is somewhat
more versatile in her talents, and has alter-
nately filled almost every department of
journalism. Besides being an able prose
writer, this lady is also a poetess, and of 
late years some of her finest literary efforts
have been in a poetic vein. While a mere
school girl, "M. C. A." began to use her pen
as press correspondent, making the Spring-
field "Republican" her first field of exploit.
But at that time she wrote at rare intervals,
and solely for the "fun" of seeing her name
in print. It was not until a much later pe-
riod that she took up her pen in earnest,
and her regular connection with the New
York press began only in '65. From that 
time probably dates her introduction to the
literary world. As a Washington corres-
pondent she became suddenly very popular.
Her style was tinctured with warmth, dis-
crimination, pleasantry and sound common
sense. People learned to regard her as re-
liable as well as entertaining, and "A Wo-
man's Letter from Washington" was never
without its complement of admiring read-
ers. For the past two years Mrs. Ames has
been attached to the editorial corps of the 
"Independent," having, in addition, a cer-
tain amount of regular work on the Brook-
lyn "Union." Her salary is now upwards
of $5,000 a year.
	The only woman employed on the staff of
the New York "Herald" is Mrs. Butts, a
brilliant and painstaking journalist. The
husband of this lady was formerly connect-
ed with the same sheet, and, after his 
death, she made application for piece work,
which was cheerfully furnished her. Her
thoroughness, dispatch and unusual intel-
lectuality were the subjects of constant
comment by those whose business it is to
look out for talent, and the result was an in-
vitation to join the staff. In reviewing the
past, she says of herself:
	"I thank, Heaven that I know how to
work. Should anything happen to my lit-
erary prospects, I could make my living as a
dressmaker, milliner, seamstress, house-

[Column 3]
keeper, cook or laundress. I have done my
own housework, and gloried in it: have
made my husband's shirts, and washed and
ironed tnem; not only because I could really
do them better than a professional laun-
dress, but in order to eke out a reporter's
meagre salary!"
	Mrs. Mary E. Dodge is one of our most
successful literary workers, and shows what
a woman can do in literature. She is the
daughter of the well-known Prof. Mapes,
inventor of the fertilizers, and owns part of
the latter's farm, two miles from Newark,
which is under the management of P. T.
Quinn, formerly agricultural editor of the
"Tribune" and author of several books on
farming. Mrs. Dodge has a salary of $3,000
from "Hearth and Home" for writing exclu-
sively for that journal. She excels particu-
larly as a writer of children's stories, and
combines acburacy of fact with beauty of
style. Her story of Hans Brinker shows
great care and study, and gives a vivid pic-
ture of Dutch life and adventure. Mrs.
Dodge, though the mother of two boys,
whom she supports at college, is young,
handsome and lively as a girl of twenty, and
is excellent company.


