FOR WIVES.
	In domestic happiness the wife's influ-
ence is much better than the husband's; for
the one, the first cause, mutual love and
confidence being granted, the whole comfort
of the household depends upon trifles more
immediately dependent upon her jurisdic-
tion. By her management of small sums
her husband's respectability and credit are
created or destroyed. No fortune can stand
the leakage of extravagancies and misman-
agement; and more is spent in trifles than
women would easily believe. The one great
expense, whatever it may be, is turned
over and carefully reflected on ere incurred;
the income is prepared to meet it; but it is
pennies imperceptibly sliding away which
do mischief; and this the wife alone can
stop, for it does not come within a man's
province. There is often an unsuspected
trifle to be saved in every household. It is
not in economy alone, however, that the
wife's attention is so necessary, but in those
niceties which make a well regulated house.
An unfurnished cruet stand, a missing key,
a buttonless shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a
mustard-pot with its old contents shaken
hard and down about it, are really nothing;
but each can raise angry words and cause
discomfort. Depend upon it, there is a good
deal of domestic happiness about a well-
dressed mutton-chop or a tidy breakfast-ta-
ble. Men grow sated of beauty, tired of
music, and are often wearied of conversa-
tion, however intellectual; but they can al-
ways appreciate a well-swept hearth and
smiling comforts.


MISS Martha Hempstead recently died in
Waterford, Conn., aged nearly ninety-one.
She was a daughter of Mary Bill, of Groton,
whom every schoolboy knows as the revolu-
tionary heroine who said to her husband on
his way to war: "John, do not get shot in
the back!" Among the antiquities belong-
ing to Miss Hempstead, was the oldest watch
in New London County, which members of
the Legislature used to borrow during the
sessions in a time when watches were much 
less common than now.


ELLEN J. Fitzgerald was burned to death
at Taunton, Mass., the other day. Her
dress caught fire from the kitchen stove.


