NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THESE days of general enlightenment,
when the fact that "to err is human" is so
widely understood, a want of charity betrays a
lack of good sense.
	THE OAKLAND "Homestead," Dora Dar-
moore's paper has undergone a complete change,
and appears now in a pretty, new dress, bear-
ing the title of "The Golden Dawn."
	MICHIGAN IS first among the States to sub-
mit to the popular vote a proposition to an-
swer the "Woman Suffrage question" in the
affirmative; and Iowa, not to be far beaten in
generosity, follows closely in the same direc-
tion.
	AT THE late Woman's Congress held in Chi-
cago, no other subject excited so much interest
as did that of Dress Reform. And the reform-
ers are deeply in earnest. Dr. Mary Safford
Blake, who exhibited models in a dress, appeared
on the platform at the congress in a black silk
dress with the skirt untrimmed and short
enough to clear the floor.
	HARD TIMES are increasing for the poor in
New York. Hundreds of families are reported
to be without the necessaries of life, and it is
estimated that ten thousand men and women
in that great city are out of employment. Should
a bread riot ensue, it will be only what might
have been expected.
	THE SMITH sisters, Abby H, and Julia E., of
whom—and their cows—the papers have had
so much to say, have found fault for years
about paying taxes and not being permitted to
vote. They allowed their cows to be sold; and
now they have achieved a grand triumph over
a collector who has been fined for selling some
of their land when he should have levied on
their personal property.


[Column 1]
		A MOTHER'S MISTAKE.
MRS. RICHARDS,
	Dear Sister:—All through the long,
bright Summer and the splendid, golden
Autumn, Ever Thine has been employed as
a country "School Marm," boarding with
Mrs. Blank—Blank, because Ever Thine
has no permission to publish her excellent
hostess' real name. But, parties concerned
raise no objection to my publishing the fol-
lowing personal experiences, as hints
which may prove beneficial to others, placed
in similar circumstances.
	Mrs. Blank has a fine, intellectual daugh-
ter, who has, perhaps, given too much at-
tention to attracting admirers for the last
few years. At any rate, either through the
influence of coquetry or some other power,
she became uncertain which, if either, of a
couple of gentlemen she would prefer as a
life-time companion, when she grew tired
of flirting and concluded to give her atten-
tion to matrimonial interests. And here
arose a grave difficulty between the young
lady and her maternal parent.
	Now, Ever Thine has no intention to
justify the young lady's proceedings, neith-
er does she condemn them for all that is
bad. Every effect has a cause to begin
with. Whatever may have been the occa-
sion of this young lady's mistaken course,
she should have been led into the right
way again, through gentle and kind treat-
ment; and shown her folly as one having
been misguided by circumstances; not as
one willfully wicked or naturally foolish,
for she was neither. All this her good, lov-
ing mother knew when she was brought to
see it. But to begin with, she saw only
that the daughter, on whom she had lav-

[Column 2]
ished great care and tenderness, and of
whom she was very proud, was in error, and
would not understand things for herself as
she understood them for her. And here it
was that the mother's mistake occurred of
which Ever Thine writes.
	It was a sad mistake, and came near prov-
ing a fatal one, that this mother endeavored
by calling her daughter foolish, weak, con-
trary, and like epithets, to convince her that
if she married the man to whom she rather
inclined, she would not be happy. These
matters were freely discussed in the pres-
ence of Ever Thine, and her opinion often
asked by both mother and daughter, partic-
ularly the former.
	At last, Ever Thine said to the perplexed
and anxious mother, that she did not think
the measures she pursued with the young
lady were likely to result in good. Where-
upon Ever Thine was asked to talk to the
girl upon the subject and see what influence
she might have. To this Ever Thine did
not object. She had trod the same miry
path herself, and could heartily sympathize
with the disconsolate young woman, al-
though she saw too, as did the mother, that
the way which the daughter was inclined to
choose could but end in misery. Ever
Thine had often felt that she could put her
arms about the young girl and whisper
words in her ear which would comfort and
strengthen her, and at the same time serve
to throw a clear light upon the subject which
was then misty and dark to her confused
gaze. But until the mother requested it,
Ever Thine had no right to interfere in the 
matter.
	The loneliest, weariest time that can ap-
pear to a lonely, restless mortal, is the hour
of Sabbath twilight. Yet this was the
time first presented to Ever Thine for the
conversation she had promised to seek with
her young friend. And it proved to be a
lucky hour. For no sooner had Ever Thine
drawn the dejected, sorrowing little being
into a warm, sisterly embrace, and spoken
pretty sentences of cheering sympathy and
kindly advice, than her subdued and melt-
ing heart was ready to yield to anything
that experience and calm judgment might
suggest. And Ever Thine had the satisfac-
tion of seeing the young woman happily
married before she left their home. But
this is what Ever Thine would impress up-
on the minds of parents.
	Never speak other than fond and gentle
words to a girl who has been or is likely to
be, in the least, crossed in her love affairs.
Don't call her weak-minded because she is
uncertain how to act when two strong pow-
ers are operating in opposite directions upon
her. Strong men are often weak where love
and women are concerned; why should a 
common place girl be reproached for not
acting always wisely where love and men
are concerned. The nursing infant should 
not be treated with more tenderness than
the girl whose mind has become bewildered
over so delicate an affair as her heart's affec-
tions, even though they may have been
misplaced.			EVER THINE.


RHEUMATISM, &c.—All such disorders as
rheumatism and bodily weakness find a
powerful remedy in the leaves and flow-
ers of the wild sage (Roman wormwood)
mixed with a small quantity of rabbit brush
and hoarhound, steeped in boiling water; a
little salt should be added, and the decoction
applied to the parts affected, with a sufficient
bandage to hold it there till relief is ob-
tained, which, in most cases, occurs after
one or two applications, in one night.


