WOMAN'S RECORD. 

	MISS Edna Dean Proctor, of Brooklyn, has
sued the “Daily Graphic,” of New York,
for $100,000 damages for slandering her, al-
though her name was not mentioned at al
in the paper.
	MRS. Joseph Utton, of Boston, who had
been insane for several days previous, re-
cently took a dose of Paris green, and then
jumped into the Charles River. Between
the two she achieved suicide.
	MAY Alcott, sister of Louisa M. and
daughter of Bronson Alcott, the Concord
Sage, recently exhibited, at Concord, Mass.
cattle-show, a pair of her beautiful panel
paintings of flowers. She spent some time
last year in the picture galleries of London.
	THE "Golden Dawn" tells us that Nettie
La Grange, who, in the absence of Mr.
Johnson is successfully conducting the Santa
Barbara “Press,” has been sued for libel by
one Clarence Gray, of that city. She was
bound over in the sum of $2,000 to appear
before the next Grand Jury. Two gallant
Barbarians promptly went on her bond. 
	THE woman suffrage meeting at Provi-
dence, R. I., recently was an uncommonly
interesting gathering, and the impress that
the Smith sisters of Glastonbury, Ct., and
the Fosters of Worcester, Mass., have made
upon the cause has been particularly notice-
able. Indeed, the leading subject of the ad-
dresses was taxation without representation.
Lucy Stone said: “History will garner up
laurels for Abba Kelly Foster, who put her
gay life, with all its hopes, upon the altar of
a great reform,” and “the cart in which the
Smith sisters stood to plead with their
townsmen should be put in Independence
Hall as an object of veneration.”


﻿A well dressed man entered a jewelry
store and asked if he might look at the cups
in the window. “These,” said the jeweler,
handling one, “are race cups?” “Race cups?
What are race cups?” “Why,” replied the
jeweler, “they are cups I had ordered to be
made for prizes to the best racers.” “Well,
if that’s so, suppose you and I start for one,”
and, with cup in hand, he started, the jew-
eler after him. He won the cup.


