[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: We Are All God's Children Grace Ingles Frost]
WE  ARE  ALL  GOD'S  CHILDREN 
We  are  all  God's  children. 
Some  are  weak  and  some  are  strong. 
But  the  scales  are  well  adjusted, 
Strength  must  bear  the  burden  long. 
We  are  all  God's  children. 
Why  question  His  decree  ? 
A  wise  omniscient  Father  knov/s 
What's  best  for  you  and  me. 
Grace  In^lrs  Frost.

Salvation  for  the  Living  and  the  Dead 
By  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 
This  discourse  was  .delivered  at  the  Genealogical  conference 
on  the  afternoon  of  Monday,  October  7,  1918: 
If  I  understand  the  object  of  my  presence  here  this  afternoon 
it  is  not  so  much  to  treat  any  genealogical  subject,  or  to  deal  with 
anything  pertaining  to  the  study  of  names,  ,so  much  as  to  present 
some  thoughts  with  reference  to  the  work  of  salvation  which  con- 
cerns both  the  living  and  the  dead.  To  begin  with,  let  me  read 
the  words  that  were  quoted  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by  the 
angel  Moroni  on  the  21st  of  September,  1823.  This  account  is 
not  worded  just  the  same  as  the  prophecy  of  Malachi,  and  I  like 
it  better : 
"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand 
of  Elijah  the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful 
day  of  the  Lord ; 
"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises 
made  to  the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to 
their  fathers ; 
"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted 
at  his  coming." 
If  I  should  ask  you  what  that  means  I  think  you  would  answer 
almost  unanimously,  that  it  refers  to  the  work  for  the  dead.  That 
passage  and  promise  refers  not  only  to  baptism  by  proxy  and 
other  vicarious  temple  work,  but  also  to  the  sealing  power  which 
is  both  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead,  and  by  which  families  are 
united  through  the  ages,  past  as  well  as  future.  I  think  some  of 
us  have  had  the  idea  that  the  mission  of  Elijah  pertained  only  to 
the  vicarious  work  for  the  dead,  but  I  believe  it  goes  farther  than 
that  and  includes  the  sealing  ordinances  for  the  living  as  well_  as 
all  ordinances  for  the  dead.  We  read  in  this  revelation  that  Elijah 
was  to  come  with  his  Priesthood,  which  he  did,  as  we  learn  from 
section  110  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,,  and  gave  to  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  keys  of  this  ministry  which  was 
to  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  desire  to  fulfil  the  prom- 
i.-es  which  had  been  made  to  their  fathers  at  some  day  in  the  far 
distant  past.  This  promise  was  made  by  several  of  the  prophets. 
We  find  it  in  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  Enoch,  to  Isaiah,  and  others, 
as  well  as  in  the  propheiy  of  Malachi. 
If  Elijah  had  not  come  we  are  led  to  believe  that  all  the  work 
of  past  ages  would  have  been  of  little  avail,  for  the  Lord  said  the 
whole  earth,  under  such  conditions,  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his 
coming.     Therefore  his  mission  was  of  vast  importance  to  the

678  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
world.  It  is  not  the  question  of  baptism  for  the  dead  alone,  but 
also  the  sealing  of  parents  and  children  to  parents,  so  that  there 
should  be  a  "whole  and  complete  and  perfect  unixDn,  and  welding 
together  of  dispensations,  and  keys  and  powers  and  glories,"  from 
the  beginning  down  to  the  end  of  time.  If  this  sealing  power 
were  not  on  the  earth,  then  confusion  would  reign  and  disorder 
would  take  place  of  order  in  that  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come, 
and,  of  course,  this  could  not  be,  for  all  things  are  governed  and 
controlled  by  perfect  law  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  All  the  dead, 
v/ho  are  in  need  of  repentance,  must  receive  the  ordinances  of 
baptism  before  they  enter  into  the  kingdom,  just  the  same  as  the 
living.  But  being  dead,  and  baptism  being  an  ordinance  which 
pertains  to  this  probation,  it  will  have  to  be  done  by  proxy.  The 
same  is  true  of  the  sealing  ordinances  in  behalf  of  those  who  are 
entitled  to  receive  them.  The  living  also  must  enter  the  temple 
and  be  sealed,  or  they  cannot  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Celestial 
kingdom. 
This  is  the  work  which  Elijah  came  to  reveal.  We  go  into 
the  temples  and  are  sealed  for  time  and  for  eternity,  and  also  to 
perform  like  ordinances  vicariously  for  our  dead.  Generation 
will  be  joined  to  generation,  as  far  as  it  is  in  our  power  to  per- 
form the  labor.  The  obligation  rests  heavily  upon  us,  and  when 
we  have  exhausted  all  the  information  which  we  are  able  to  ob- 
tain through  our  research,  and  have  obtained  all  the  names  of  the 
dead  within  our  power,  we  may  be  content.  President  Brigham 
Young  has  said  that  during  the  Millennium  those  on  the  other 
side  will  work  hand  in  hand  with  those  in  mortality  and  will  fur- 
nish the  names  of  the  dead  which  we  are  unable  to  obtain  through
