[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference of Relief Society]

The semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened on Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1918. The first day of the conference was devoted to officers' meetings with sessions at 9 a. m. and 1 p. m. for the general and stake officers of the organization. On the second day, general sessions were held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. for all Relief Society workers.

A cafeteria luncheon was served during the noon recess on Wednesday for those in attendance at the stake officers' meetings. The luncheon with the social hour was especially appreciated coming as it did between two strenuous sessions.

On Thursday afternoon at 5 o'clock, a special matinee at the Empress Theater was given for all Relief Society workers at the conference, when pictures which were of especial interest were selected for the program. The stake officers were the guests of the General Board. Mrs. Williams stated further that the Presiding Bishopric desire to have it announced in the conference that they will pay 4 percent on Relief Society wheat money beginning with October, 1918, and that the interest will be added to the principal. Statements of wheat accounts will be sent to each ward semi-annually. The authorities feel that the wheat money is safe where it is and a strict accounting of the same will be rendered to each ward. The Presiding Bishopric also desire to emphasize the fact that where money is held by the various ward Relief Societies it should be placed in reliable banks for safekeeping.

The Secretary made the following announcements: The Annual report forms will be sent out about the middle of November. She urged the importance of the secretaries studying carefully the instructions accompanying and contained within the report forms in order that as few errors as possible may be made. The report forms will be sent out to the Stake Secretaries to be distributed to the wards immediately. All compiled reports are to be sent in to the General Secretary early in January.

The publication of the Song book will be greatly delayed. The Chicago Publishing House has sent word that the plates for the Music can not be made in less than three or four months because of the scarcity of workmen and material. It was suggested that orders for these books be held until the books are ready when an announcement will be made through the Magazine.

The Surname Books are being shipped as rapidly as possible. The price for these books is $3 for a single copy or $2.75 when bought in dozen lots.

The Correlation Committee of the Church is preparing to begin a course in Teacher's Training for all auxiliary organizations in January. This will give Relief Society class teachers an opportunity to take a course in training which will fit them to give intelligent teaching service in the Relief Society. For several years a course in
