[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - The Advent of the Prince of Peace]

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November.
THE ADVENT OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE.
Perhaps the most glorious book in the Book of Mormon is the Third Book of Nephi. It is most glorious because it gives a marvelous account of the ministry of the Lord Jesus on this continent. But the prelude to this great event was the period of dire calamity visited on the wicked and those who had sought the lives of the prophets. In the 8th chapter of III Nephi we read:
"And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.

"And it came to pass in the thirty-fourth year, in the first month, in the fourth day of the month there arose a great storm, such a one as never had been known in all the land; and there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was terrible thunder, insomuch, that it did shake the whole earth, as if it were about to divide asunder, and there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all the land."
When this terrible storm ceased a voice made announcement of all the great destruction that had taken place. In the 12th paragraph of III Nephi this voice declared:
"And many great destructions have I caused to come upon the land, and upon the people, because of their wickedness and their abominations."
Then came the wonderful plea:
"O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you?
"Yea, verily I say unto you, if you will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive, and blessed are those who come unto me.
"Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning; I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name."
While these events were occurring, the people of this continent were enveloped by an indescribable darkness, a darkness that was so thick that it might be felt. But saith the inspired record, after three days of intense darkness, it was "morning and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.
"And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood and the mourning and the weeping and the wailing of the people who were spared alive, did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and their lamentations unto the praise and thanksgiving of the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.
"And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been spoken by the prophets.
"And it was the more righteous part of the people that were saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints, who were spared.
"And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destruction by fire and by smoke and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by opening of the earth to receive
them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets."
Does not that last paragraph of scripture seem as if it might have been written for our express benefit, in this very hour? Is it not most fitting to exhort today that "he that hath the scriptures let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions about us, by fire and by smoke and by tempests and by whirlwinds and by opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets."
The history of the past month has furnished a parallel for nearly every detail in this paragraph. Many lives have been lost by fire and by smoke and by tempests. Lives are certainly being lost by whirlwinds, and only a few days have elapsed since we read the story of the ravages of the last earthquake. Pestilence and disease, deaths over the whole earth. With equal force may we not say with those who lived in that great period of the meridian of time; "See and behold if all these deaths and destructions are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets?"
And, moreover, the terrible destruction of the fighting armies in the East and the West continues; gaunt famine has many millions of the earth in her grasp; disease has spread from continent to continent  disease claiming a larger toll at present, so far as the United States soldier is concerned, than the battle front. The might of the house of Hohenzollern, and the glory of the ancient house of Hapsburg is hourly fading as the mists before the sun. Surely history doth repeat itself, and like causes produce like results in all ages.
But now we turn once again to that part of our record that imparts joy and hope. After all the dire calamities that occurred among the Nephites came the Prince of Peace with healing in his wings. And he ministered unto them and blessed them until their joy was full. The author of the Story of the Book of Mormon refers to this blessed era of peace in the following language:
"When Jesus left the Nephites to the care of his disciples he had so thoroughly filled the people with the influence and the power of the eternal worlds that evil utterly ceased in their midst; they were united in all things temporal and spiritual, universal peace prevailed. Love, joy, harmony, everything desirable to make the life of man a perfect condition of unalloyed, holy happiness, reigned supreme. Indeed, it may be said that a type, a foreshadowing of the Millennium, for once found place and foothold among the sons of humanity."
Once again the Latter-day Saints stand where stood those of old, waiting for the advent of the Prince of Peace. It is not given

to man to know the hour when he shall come, but that he will come in glory and power no person who has faith in God's holy prophets ever doubts. He will come unto the Jews in Jerusalem, and there upon the Mount of Olives, he will show them the wounds in his hands and feet and side. Do we not truly rejoice that all history is moving rapidly towards that glorious consummation? The Holy Land, now no longer in possession of the Turks, must soon surely be a safe abiding place for her ancient covenant people. Under the magic touch of the modern engineer, cool waters have been stretched across her parched and burning deserts from Egypt to Jerusalem. And this we may well believe is only the beginning of the story. This war-worn, weary world of ours that has cried, peace, peace, so long, and finds no peace, will rest at last; for the Lord of glory will usher in the great Millennium. No matter how bitterly and completely the peace efforts of statesmen, philanthropists and scholars may have failed in the past; or how bitterly and completely they may fail in the future, one thing is sure, that when Jesus comes to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords, peace will cover the earth.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Why would you naturally expect the part of the Book of Mormon dealing with Christ's ministry to be especially wonderful and glorious?
2. How was the advent of the Prince of Peace ushered in to the Nephites?
3. Read to the class the chapter announcing the calamities that had befallen them. (III Nephi 9.)
4. Why had they reasons to expect these calamities?
5. When do you recall the last deaths occurring from fire? From tempest? From whirlwinds? From earthquakes?
6. Tell how this toll of death is being added to by war, famine and disease.
7. With what country is the house of Hohenzollern connected?
8. With what country is the house of Hapsburg connected?
9. Find some scripture that refers to Christ's second coming and read it to the class.
10. Read Orson Hyde's prayer dedicating the land of Palestine for the gathering of the Jews.
11. Why is there larger hope that the scripture may soon be fulfilled in relation to the Jews, with Palestine in the possession of Great Britain and the allied nations, than in the hands of Turkey?
12. How is the period of time following Christ's ministry to the Nephites characterized?
13. What may we expect of that period when Christ shall come to reign as King?