Pioneer Stories and Incidents A STAMPEDE ON THE PLAINS President Amy Brown Lyman (This is the fourth in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration? ) RESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS often remarked that one of the most terrifying experiences of her life was witnessing a stampede of animals which occurred on the plains in the company of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, in the fall of 1848. It appears that animals as well as people, often, on those long journeys, suffered from fear and anxiety, as well as from thirst, hunger, and fatigue. As Sister Wells related the incident, which she always made vivid and dramatic, the trouble followed a long and weary day of travel. After camp had been made and supper and devotions were over, the company, foregoing the usual recreational activities, had retired early and were sleeping soundly. As was the custom of the pioneers, the wagons had been formed into a sort of circular or oval corral with the tongues pointing outside, and with a front wheel of each wagon locked in a rear wheel of the wagon ahead. Two openings or exits had been left opposite each other and a guard stationed at each of them. In this enclosure the animals were held for safety. Just before daybreak, there was a terrible commotion among the animals. For some unknown reason they had become disturbed and were soon unmanageable, despite all efforts to control them. They rushed Page 668 about, the oxen and cows bellowing and snorting as if they were mad? horses, oxen, steers, and cows all mixed up together. The noise and confusion and stamping of feet were so great that the very ground seemed to shake. The frightened animals jammed against one another and against the wagons, causing damage to both. Women and children were frightened into a panic, many screaming and crying, and some fainting. Finally, the animals broke through the openings and rushed out into the open prairie. Fortunately, several horses were caught and, upon these, men leaped and followed the herd. As the confusion subsided in camp and the immediate danger seemed to be over, new worries and anxieties developed. It was discovered that two children were missing, that one man had sustained a broken leg, and that another had been knocked down and lay unconscious a short distance away. Then there began to be anxiety and fear regarding the safety of the camp, left as it now was in the vast, lonely wilderness; and, added to this, there was great concern regarding the safety of the animals and the men who had followed them. It was feared, at first, that perhaps the two children, running away from the terrifying scene had PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS encountered other dangers; but they were finally located, hidden deep down in a wagon box under a feather bed and other covers, where they had almost smothered. Like horses frightened at a fire, it was hard to induce them to come out to safety. It was not until late afternoon and many miles away, that the frightened and excited animals were finally brought under control, and returned 669 to camp. Several had been injured, and all of them were so nervous and exhausted that they had to be carefully cared for and comforted throughout the following night. None, however, was lost. The two injured men were properly cared for; the necessary repairs about the camp were made; and, on the second morning after this trying experience, the journey was once more resumed.