The Intruder Margery S. Stewart HE telephone Tang just as Carol was coming downstairs. With a wondering look at the hall clock, she went to answer it. It was Naida, more breathless than usual, "Carol, darling, I know it's practically the break of day, but Mabel Corless told me she saw you up at Doctor Thorpe's office and I just couldn't wait to find out What..." Carol chuckled. Have a baby." "A baby!" Naida's shriek made Carol hold the Phone away from her ear. "A baby! Good heavens! Why, you're thirty-six." "You make it sound ninety." "I didn't mean to, darling. But... But our children are grown up. You just can't start all over again. Have you told Danny and Joyce? Does Big Dan know?" Carol hesitated. "No.. Not yet." "Oh, I pity you when they do. They just 'die. Children these days are so unhappy about things like that. When Jean was having hers, Johnny and Doris just moped around, and do they moan about tending the baby, now it's here." Carol said swiftly, "But of course it will be different with us; Joyce loves babies, that is, she did." "Well, I hope she still does.. For your sake. Honestly, the things that happen to people." Carol cried out. "Oh, no. A wonderful, beautiful thing." "You always were a little odd about things like that, Carol. I never could Page 674 "I'm going to It's understand you... Well, I'll see YOR sa Carol replaced the Phone slowly. She found she was trembling. People seemed to be changing so much: It frightened her. She could remember the time when a baby, the first or the tenth, was the signal for rejoicing on every hand. She heard Joyce moving about upstairs and went hastily to the kitchen to stir up a batter for hot cakes. Perhaps she could tell her family at breakfast, Joyce burst into the kitchen, her school books under one arm, her sweater revealing tender curves, and her mouth petulant, "Mother, for pity's sake. You didn't take down that hem. Now I've got to wear this thing, and Celia wanted me to wear my blue." Carol's mouth quirked, noticing how the soft pink wool brought out the vivid coloring of Joyce's blue eyes and black hair. She smiled at her daughter. "I'm sorry, but I've not been feeling well. Went to the doctor and do you know what he said?" But Joyce was not listening. "Hot cakes? Ummm! Make mine about six and I'll study history while I'm eating." She opened her book and a paper fell out. Carol picked it up and smiled on the little penciled animals that frolicked over the page. "You really have a gift, Child." Joyce flicked the page with a scornful hand. "They're corny, I used to think I could be an artist, THE INTRUDER | but Celia pointed out just how poor I am." She lifted her head and annoyance drew down the comers of her mouth. "Here comes Danny Junior. I wish he'd get the grease out from under his nails and leave those horrible engines of his alone." Danny galloped into the kitchen. "Oh, is that so, Joyce? Well, 'm not going to leave engines alone just because you want me to look pretty for your girl friends. Those nauseating gleeps you call girl friends.. - - I'm going to be an inventor. Ummm, hot cakes! Gimme about twelve." CAROL brought the hot cakes and the milk. She curled her hands in her apron and, suddenly, her heart was pounding thunderously, "Do you like babies?" That wasn't what she had meant to say at all. "Little new ones," she added hastily. "Babies?" Joyce reached for the syrup. "Good grief, no! That new neighbor wanted me to tend hers, and did I give her to understand I was not interested! Celia says babies are messy little things." She waved her spoon largely, "None for me, ever." "Toyce!" Carol stared unbelievingly. "Suppose I'd felt that way before you were born?" Joyce shrugged. "You've always peen mad about babies. I'm not." "Babies?" echoed Danny. De considered. "I used to want a baby in the family when I was a kid, before I got to be sixteen and had some sense. But, gosh, I never even look at them now. Nope. Can't be bothered. Say, Mom, do you suppose you could persuade Dad to buy me that jalopy of Paul's? I could make twenty bucks, fixing it up." "Py ask him," said Carol. She protectiveness shook her. 675 went back to the range. She poured more batter onto the skillet. She was surprised at the shaking of her hands because, inside, she was SO still and quiet. She had been wrong, so terribly wrong, all the years she had felt, smugly, that she was being a wonderful mother. She looked at her children as a stranger might look at them, at Joyce, beautiful and selfish, at Danny, sixteen and strong and intelligent and beginning to be ruthless. I have given them a great deal, she thought, and missed the important things. Everything for the welfare of their minds and their bodies, and nothing to make their hearts beautiful or their souls grow. Then, at the thought of the baby, she decided, I'm being given a new chance with this baby. A fierce Her home should be a fortress against the fallacies, and the vicious creeds and the hatreds and ignorance of the world. She would make it so and keep it that way. Somehow, someway, she would find the way to make het family greet this new member with the proper love and tenderness. She watched Joyce apply a thick layer of lipstick, but this time she did not remonstrate, instead, she laid her hand tenderly on her daughter's cheek. Joyce smiled. "Hi, Mom! Well, I'm off. Yipes, listen to Dad on the state of the bathroom!" Danny flushed guiltily and rose. "] forgot again. Plead my case, Mom. I gotta go." Carol waited for Dan and thought, I'm glad we'll be alone. I'll tell him and it will be like it used to be, warmth and friendliness and love. Dan stormed down the stairs. "If that boy doesn't learn to wipe up 676 the bathroom floor!" He gave Carol a quick peck. "Feeling better, Pet? That's fine. I'm hoping you'll be in top form before the Wentworths get here. I'm counting on one of your good dinners to swing the account my way." Carol flipped the hot cake over. "Suppose I can't entertain them, Dan?" Dan picked up his paper. "Don't make jokes, my dear. With the way prices have gone up we're going to need a lot more money. I want a new car... And some tips... I'd like to buy you a new coat.... I was wondering about a private school for Joyce. What do you think?" "I was thinking about babies," Carol said softly, "little warm babies, in soft pink sweaters." "Babies!" Dan snorted, "Babies? We won't have to think about them for years. Joyce won't be married for years, if 1 have anything to say about it." Carol sat on the stool by the sink. She watched him read his paper, finish his breakfast, and depart. She went slowly to gather up the breakfast dishes. We touch each other every day, Dan and I, our hands touch, and our lips, and sometimes we look at each other when we speak, but what is more barren than a touch without knowledge, and more blind than eyes accustomed to the thing they see? SHE could no longer endure the quiet house. She worked swiftly until just before noon, then she changed and went downtown. She walked slowly up Main Street, looking in the shop windows, struggling to cast off her ? doubts and depression. A tall girl in a yellow jacket, obviously pregnant, looked at the display of slim, spring dresses. Carol smiled at her, she who was inordinately shy, and found herself saying, "But it won't be very long.... You'll be even prettier." The girl laughed. "I don't mind. I'm glad... Glad... You see they told me once that I couldn't have a baby. Think of going through life without a baby of your own. I was the oldest... It was a thrill, each new small brother or sister." Something of the girl's joy went with Carol up the street. She walked past the shopping district, and up the little hill that led from Temple Square. She rested for a moment against an old stone wall. She looked over the valley, at the homes, at the long business street, at the gray walls of the temple, and Angel Moroni's glinting gold in the afternoon sun. Words from a psalm slipped like jewels on a chain, "His foundation is in the holy mountains. The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.... Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God....". With quickening breath Carol threaded the other words, "... And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her. The Lord shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah."... That this man was born there...." Carol put her hand upon her breast. She was very still, washed in a nameless, burning beauty. We forget, she thought, the important things, how valuable to God are the children born here. How greatly they will be needed in the years to come. She reached out for the THE INTRUDER moment, to keep its strength and its beauty, but already it was like a wind-torn cloud, unrolling, dispelling, and gone. She walked slowly back to town. She had a sandwich in a department store tea room. Afterwards she took the elevator up to the infants' wear. She priced the diminutive shirts, the nightgowns. There was a baby shawl of blue yarn, beautifully woven, incredibly soft. She fingered it gently, seeing her baby wrapped in its lovely folds. "I'll take it," she said to the clerk. She held the package close against her, walking down the aisle of the store. Suddenly, she stood still. If a shawl could do so much for her, make the baby seem so near. "Why, of course," she said aloud, and went swiftly to the yard goods' counter. She bought a square of pink silk, shimmering and beautiful. She tucked it carefully with the other package and went smiling towards the bus corner. Danny was in the garage. She could hear him hammering lustily on a piece of steel. He looked up as her shadow fell on him. He grinned. "I'm making an all-cooling system for the house. You'll really like it, it won't be nearly so noisy as last summer." Carol repressed a shudder. "It sounds wonderful. By the way, Danny, do you think you could make a cradle?" "A cradle?" "You see, this woman is going to have a baby and she has her heart set on an old-fashioned cradle. The stores don't carry them, and I happened to think of you. I'm just sure you could make her one." with brown, gentle hands. Danny rubbed his nose with an oil-smeared hand. "Sure, I could. Gosh, never saw a cradle except in pictures. But I could do it." He lifted his head hopefully. "Say, would she want a self-rocker? I think I could get a motor?" Carol repressed her horrified 'outcry. "She might," she managed to say. He nodded loftily. "Okay. Ill do it." She went hastily away before the desire to hug him should disgrace her forever. Joyce came home at five, as Carol was just beginning dinner. Carol, straining her ears, heard the quick footsteps halt beside the dining room table. "Oh, yummy. Mother?" "Yes, dear," Carol managed to walk casually into the dining room. "Did you call me?" Joyce was caressing the pink silk "How perfectly gorgeous! Mine?" "No... It's for a woman who's going to have a baby. She wants to make a quilt." Carol held the shimmering silk up against the light. "She was wondering if you would make the design for it.... I showed her some of your little animals one day." "You mean,' breathed Joyce, "that she wants me to make the design for her?" Caro] nodded. "I have some silk scraps we can use for applique. I brought home some magazines with babies on the covers. They might help you. When you make things for babies you have to get that cuddly feel in your fingers." Joyce gathered up her books. "That new neighbor has some adorable things for her baby. Ill go 678 tend him and then I can really look at them." Carol went back to the kitchen. She sat for a brief moment on the stool by the sink. "I should know by now," she thought, "that most miracles happen as casually as this." Naida called one morning. "Have you told them yet?" "Not yet," Carol answered. Isn't the time." "Well, you'd better tell them before the town does." Carol laughed. "But the town doesn't know. I spend my days sewing a fine seam." She did not add, with Joyce. Because this was too new, too precious to be shared, those moments when Joyce sat beside her and threaded her needle in the pattern she had drawn on the silk. It was an appealing design she had made of fat little bears in a rainstorm. "CAROL had known few moments as lovely as the afternoon when Joyce said suddenly, "''m beginning to think Celia's a dope about some things. I think babies are sweet." She smiled at her mother. "Of course, all those pictures you have around of babies, would make an ogre love them." Danny had made no further mention of the cradle, but sometimes he deigned to play with the neighbor's baby whom Carol "borrowed." But one afternoon he brought a sheaf of drawings to the dining room. "Take a look, Mom, and see if they're what you want?" Carol sat down and thumbed through them. She exclaimed over one. "Isn't this adorable; might have come over on the Mayflower? That's my choice." ? Danny's face grew bright. "Do you really like it? I can get some maple for that. It would look swell in maple." He lifted his head as his father strode in. "Dan," Carol cried, "come and see what your son has drawn." But Dan, bursting with excitement, had no time for sketches. "Just a moment until I tell you what I brought home. Where's Joyce? I want everybody here, Joyce!" he shouted, "Oh, Joyce!" She came running. "What goes, Dad?" She gave him a hug. He grinned at her and pulled a handful of folders from his pocket. He handed them to Carol in a sweeping gesture. "A trip!" he roared. "A trip for the whole family! How would you like to drive up to the Northwest, down the coast to Mexico, over. To New Orleans, Washington, D. C., New York, and then drive back in a brand-spang new car?" They fell on him with shouts of joy. As from a long way off, Carol listened to their excited questions and their shrieks of delight. "And I can really buy some clothes in New York?" Joyce demanded. "Oh, won't Celia's eyes simply pop. Oh, Daddy, I'm just speechless." Dan said, "It's your mother who's speechless." He turned to her. There was a question and disappointment in his eyes. "What is it, Carol?" Carol looked at the three she loved more than anyone else in the world, at their flushed, shining faces, their enraptured eyes. In all her careful planning there had been no thought of this. How futile her efforts seemed now the baby pictures she had left here and there for the family to stumble over, the neighbor's baby she had "borrowed," the quilt she and Joyce were making together, the cradle Danny had designed. She straightened her shoulders. She had built as well as she, knew. She stated clearly, "I can't go on the trip. I'm going to have a baby."
There was a stunned silence.
"A baby?" Danny's voice skidded into high C. "A baby? You mean a real one?"
"A baby?" whispered Joyce. "A baby in our house. I'm making the quilt for our own baby. Oh, Mothler!"
Carol looked at her daughter and saw how very young she was, so young that awe still lived in her.
Her daughter smiled at her crookedly. "You should have told me . . . I would have helped more."
"Gosh," said Danny. He looked wildly around him. "Gosh, lemme set the table."
Dan said very softly, "That's a good idea, Son." He kept his head
bent, picking up the travel folders. Carol watched him, while pain bit in her. He looked so young, like a small boy obediently putting away his toys. She touched him lightly. "The three of you can go. There's not a reason in the world for you to stay. The doctor says I'm doing famously."
It was then Carol knew why he had delayed speaking so long. His voice was rough with tears. "Do you think I'd take a chance of anything happening to you . . . or my child?" He took her in his arms and hid his face against her hair for a long moment. "It's the strangest thing," he said at last. "but ever since I stumbled on a couple of magazines with baby pictures all over them I've been thinking about babies . . . I never dared to believe . . ."
Carol controlled the chuckle before it reached her lips. Miracles happen so casually, the constant miracles that only women know. She lifted her face. "Thanks," she said with her heart, "thanks for everything."
Is it proper to raffle property . . .? No; raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling; for that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged . . . President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling; and that "as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain," and advised the sisters through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow reinforced and approved of these sentiments; and I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling; . . . With all these objections, should it not be clear to anyone that raffling horses, quilts, bicycles and other property is not sanctioned by the moral law nor approved by the general Church authorities? . . . if you do not believe in it, you should refuse to patronize it, so helping the cause.
President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 407-408