EDITORIAL The Century of the Death of Franz Schubert All over Europe last year Beethoven concerts were held and Beethoven exhibits were the order of the day. The great composer had been dead one hundred years. It is now just a century since Franz Schubert died; in the city of Vienna where he made his home, and where he is buried close to Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Suppe, and Strauss. There a hundred thousand people recently observed the occasion in an appropriate manner. This great song writer set music to three of Shakespear's poems, raising to heights otherwise unattainable the lines of the immortal bard. Who has not been thrilled with the music of "Who is Sylvia" and "Hark, Hark, the Lark," and where in all this world is there more lovely melody than in Schubert's "Serenade?" Where is there an ear that has been deaf to his "Song of Love?" It has been carried to thousands of ears and thousands of hearts in the musical comedy "Blossom Time." Schubert wrote a hundred songs of lyric sweetness; yet this man, who has made life so beautiful for us, during much 
 of his own life was practically penniless. When he had given up teaching, he was absolutely without means; for he could earn nothing by public performance and as yet no publisher would take his music as a gift. In this tragic hour he was saved by the loyalty of friends; one found him lodging; another provided him with appliances; and still others gave him meals. In the following language a critic of deep insight into Schubert's place among musicians tells us: "In clarity of style he was inferior to Mozart; in power of musical construction he was far inferior to Beethoven; but in poetic impulse and suggestion he is unsurpassed. He wrote always at headlong speed; he seldom blotted a line, and the greater part of his work bears, in consequence, the essential mark of improvisation: it is fresh, vivid, spontaneous, impatient of restraint, full of rich color and of warm imaginative feeling. He was the greatest song writer who ever lived, and almost everything in his hand turned to song." "Dryden, the English poet, in speaking of him said, 'Here is God's plenty! Music has always been the most generous of the arts, but it has never before or since poured out its treasure with so lavish a hand. " Women Voters We now and then run into an article decrying the enfranchisement of women, and stating that the nation is not receiving from women what sponsors of suffrage vouchsafed. Certain papers intimate, in very strong language, that suffrage is a failure. To these critics, both honest and dishonest, the onward march of events is furnishing some very potent replies. The first is supplied by the results of the recent election in Chicago which put out of commission the Thompson machine. Several years ago the women voters of that city, embarrassed by its notorious record of crime and corruption, sought to defeat Mr. Thompson for mayor. They organized a monstrous street procession and made other protests; yet Thompson and his corrupt machine won out. Recently another opportunity presented itself to cripple the power of this unsavory individual. The women, undaunted, worked on with increasing initiative and vigor. To undermine this power was a big job; but it was accomplished, and the press was generous enough to give the women credit for their part of the work. Papers all over the country published headlines stating - that "Chicago women voters had conquered the Thompson machine.? EDITORIAL 371  All decent people in the United States are grateful to the women for their decisive work, for seldom has America produced a public man of such power who has been so offensive to people who stand for right thinking and right living. All honor to the women of Chicago. A little later the League of Women Voters met in the city of Chicago and passed a resolution demanding prohibition enforcement and calling upon government officials to use every effort to make the 18th amendment to the Constitution thoroughly effective. In part the resolution reads: "Whereas, there has been no adequate enforcement of the amendment * * * the League calls upon the President of the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury, and all state and local officials, to use to the fullest extent the power conferred upon them for effective enforcement of prohibition." "Effort will be made to have both of the major political parties include a prohibition plank in their respective platforms that the matter may become more or less of an issue in the presidential campaign." Whoever is side-stepping the issue, it is not the women's organizations. Whoever is camouflaging or whitewashing or striving in any way to have black look white, it is not the organized womanhood of America. That an individual woman here and there gives voice to a point of view that is not in harmony with law and order is to be regretted; but it does not condemn American women who have put themselves unalterably and unmistakably upon record. During the whole of the struggle they have stood for law enforcement, for the 18th amendment and for maintaining the Constitution of the United States. July is the month when our attention is particularly attracted to the birth of our nation, when flags fly and rockets soar. Is it not incumbent at the moment that we shall see deeper than color and do more than rejoice in our birth? For the problem is not now "to have" but "to hold" the precious liberties vouchsafed to us through a Constitution that has been born at such a cost. Don't "Ring" The Hospital Summer is the time when accidents occur in an unusual number. This is to be expected. More cars are running about, people are vacationing all over the country, and the lakes and rivers are freely used for swimming. Dotted through this Western region are private hospitals that are run on the narrowest possible margin and that cannot afford large corps of people to do their administrative work. When an accident happens to somebody in one of these communities, it not infrequently happens 
 that the telephone is used to such an extent that the hospital administration is almost disrupted. A few days ago we listened to a lady who has been intimately connected with a hospital away from our largest centers who said that it is impossible for people to imagine what sometimes takes place in a hospital in case of accidents. The telephones are kept ringing so that the force of people that should be doing other things to relieve the sick are answering the telephones. The other patients in the hospital grow nervous and are disturbed by the constant ringing of bells; the whole institution may be upset. Of what value is it to zone a hospital and to ask persons driving cars to remain quiet while passing if persons in the community are so thoughtless as to disturb everything within the hospital by unwise use of the telephone? The best interest of friends is that which most truly considers the welfare of patients. It frequently happens that the worst thing that can be done for sick people is to visit them; and it now turns out to be true that one of the worst things that can be done for the sick is to use our modern appliances for inquiring too frequently.