Mary Leach Adams A Pioneer of Parowan By Fay Ollerton Mary Ann Leach Adams! I remember her only as a vague, bent figure who sat in a high-backed chair and waved a palm leaf fan. She always carried a bag of peppermints in the copious pockets of her full black skirt, and I have never been able to disassociate the smell of her candy from aged things and quiet, darkened corners. In our red plush-covered album there is a picture of her: a sweet-faced elderly woman with intelligent eyes set far apart in her face and soft folds of gray hair parted in the middle and drawn loosely over the sides of her head in the fashion of long hair today. On the night she died I slept alone and cried for someone to stay with me. These few memories, coupled with the spicy odor of carnations?brought all the way from Salt Lake to Parowan in the cold of winter for her funeral?are the only recollections that survive in me. Yet she was once a tall, beautiful girl with the black hair and blue eyes of her native Ireland; a girl unafraid and generous, who dared to leave a fine home for the rigors of an ill-reputed religion and an unknown country. Accompanied by her husband, two small sons, and a few other families, she made the slow trek by oxen from Ilinois to Salt Lake a few months before the gold rush. Not much later she was one of the first white women to leave the comparative safety of Salt Lake for the dangers and isolation of Southern Utah. Here she raised a family of five tall sons and three daughters, all God-fearing and obedient, but daring to think and act for themselves. Of the slim pioneer woman who saw the red mud wall rise about the ten-acre fort on Center Creek and soon to be called Parowan, I have heard much; but the girl back in County Down 
 is harder to see. My grandfather, William Adams, wrote in his autobiography only this: "On the ? day" (how true to his sex that he forgot the exact day), "I took to me Mary Ann Leach to be my wife. She was a bonnet maker by trade and carried on the business in Hillsborough." Not one word that she was the daughter of a man in comfortable circumstances, a girl, who at twenty, tired of nothing to do in a servant-cared-for home, and in a manner quite of the twentieth century, left her parental roof to learn the ways of independence?and 'incidentally bonnet making. Whether she was a good milliner in her short apprenticeship I have never heard. I know that she forsook the trade willingly enough when a serious and good young man of her new faith came along and preached the necessity of marriage. Perhaps, after all, bonnet making was not her solemn purpose in life. She was to make plenty of them in the years to come, but they were destined to be of calico. At any rate, she came away with the young man and sailed for the adventurous states on the bark, "Fanny." While she waited in Liverpool, a fortune-telling woman warned her that if she stepped on this same "Fanny" in quest of the godless religion, she would never again see land. This prediction made no difference to my intrepid grandmother. She was unafraid in her faith (as one of her descendants I believe the prospects of the adventurous life in the new world had something to do with her decision) and only waxed in confidence when at a farewell meeting of the Saints in Liverpool another woman arose and promised that Sister Mary Ann would have one of the shortest and safest voyages ever made up to the year 1843. And there, in my grandfather's record, is a note of five weeks from Liverpool to New Orleans to prove the trueness of the prophecy. Five weeks with only three days of wind blowing against the "Fanny," and New Orleans in the Spring! What Mary Ann thought of that picturesque city, I do not know. She may have been too busy caring for her lusty son to have many impressions; but William wrote:?'New Orleans is a wonderful city for negroes and mules, mud and cotton. And what astounded me was the amount of cigars that were strewn on the sidewalks, some one-half to three-quarters used, and many that were not used." He was half Scotch, and she was soon to learn his thrifty ways. It was the long voyage from the coast city to Nauvoo, the beautiful, in the "Maid of Iowa," partly owned by the Prophet. That I have heard of. The voyage was one of mishaps and persecutions and took as long a time as the "Fanny" did in crossing the Atlantic. Also it was a time to test the mettle of the future pioneer woman. Part way up the river, the supplies and MARY LEACH ADAMS 351 money gave out; fire was set to the boat by enemies; and fever held her husband to his bed. Once she was obliged to join a group of women and go begging along the shores. Beg! When she was more used to commanding and claimed descent from a princess! But of the ending she was one with her husband when he said: "I cannot express the joy and pleasure we enjoyed in first beholding the city of Nauvoo, where we could see the prophet of God, and we were not disappointed." They were not disappointed, and young William had ten cents in his pockets?his wife a few silk dresses from Belfast. Hard times were before them. "I had worked on the Temple four weeks," wrote my grandfather, who was anxious to keep his family within the sound of the Prophet's voice, "and received no pay, so very little tithing had been taken at the Temple door. By selling and trading some of our clothing and other things that we could best do without, I was enabled to buy shorts from Brother Newell Knight, who owned a small grist mill on the banks of the Mississippi River. This might be considered hard fare by those who had been brought up on the very finest of flour; we were Satisfied to have enough of that and not complain, as it was the desire of our hearts to serve God and keep his commandments in adversity and prosperity." Yet when they left Nauvoo my grandfather turned the key on "as comfortable a little home as a woman would care to have." Evidently the keeping of commandments prospered them. Because of the perilous conditions of living at Nauvoo after the martyrdom, and the increased difficulties of saving money for the Western migration, William wandered about Illinois as a carpenter, a stone quarrier, and a laborer at the state capitol in Springfield. Mary Ann stayed with him and by May, 1849, in less than two years, they, by being "very saving with our means," had nearly five hundred dollars. Though the routine of housework still irked her, she was fast learning thrift, and she carried some of her Belfast gowns on that summer's trek over the Plains and Rockies. Once in Salt Lake, she set up housekeeping in a log cabin. The first spring she aided her husband in the planting of four acres of wheat. That little green patch in the gray wastes was all they could count on to carry them through the second winter. One day William came reluctantly into the cabin. The seed he had planted was a winter grain and the crop was useless. I am not certain what she said to him. She was high-spirited and quick of tongue?after the true Irish style?and she was thinking of her children. If she reproached him, she told him in the next breath that he had not been responsible and that "somehow" they would manage. Then she reminded him that due to


his foresight back in Illinois they still had a few provisions and tradeable things left from the immigration. It was no balm to the young couple that the gold rush was at its height in a short time and flour sold for twenty-five dollars a hundred pounds and was scarce at that. In the fall of 1850, Brigham Young arose in Conference to say that men had been chosen to develop Southern Utah, where vast wealth in iron lay. William was among the number, and his wife waited just long enough for him to build a log cabin and plant some grain before she joined him. The valley with its red and purple hills, silver sage, and pale strip of a lake, was not the abode she had dreamed of when she left her green Ireland; but she did not speak of turning back. Of her coming, Grandfather wrote: "It was a great relief to me, as I had been keeping batch seven months with Samuel Hamilton." After this settlement in Parowan, times were never so hard again. Only one year contained real hardships?real hardships meaning danger of dying from exposure or lack of food?and that was in '55, when the grasshoppers destroyed all the crops in the Territory. But Mary Ann and William, with their same keen foresight, had purchased a large supply of wheat from a family bound for the gold fields of California. The whole community came to appreciate their deal. From now on there were many partings between my grandparents. William was off to start the plowing along the Rio Virgin; to cut granite for the mother Temple; now to provide strongholds in that suspense-holding year of '57; and then for a long mission back to the States. While he was gone, my grandmother supervised her sons and saw that the growing lands and flocks did not suffer. She taught her daughters to knit, cord and spin, to cook and to sew tastefully?and to wash dishes. They were never to be handicapped as she had been. And above all, she taught her children to be scrupulously honest and to love work. Many things she knew were lacking in their lives, and she did her best to supply the vacancies. Always an avid reader, she urged her children to appreciate the things she did. Mail then was an infrequent thing at the best, but she subscribed for the old Saturday Evening Post, the New York Ledger, Harpers' Weekly, The Deseret Evening News, and a boy's magazine. When these periodicals came the whole family gathered around the hearth while someone read aloud the fate of the continued heroine. It was a keen disappointment to her that her children could not be educated as her brothers had been. She sent her boys and girls down the north street to the log school house, where they learned declamations out of McGuffey's Reader, and spelling