ELIZABETH MARY CLEGG BROWN 395
MY MOTHER DEAR
Of all the blessings that I know, And all the friends that come and go, Nor all the sunsets and the flowers And shady nooks and sunny bowers, And all the beauties of the spring Where lilies bloom and wild birds sing, And all the babbling brooks that flow From mountain tops of ice and snow, No?nothing that I see or hear Can take your place?My Mother Dear.
Like a Quiet Stream
By Gwenevere Anderson
Mr. Marsden had driven into Salt Lake City from his pioneer homestead forty miles away to get a new rocking-chair and some sugar. The drive had been a long one, so he stayed over night with some friends. As he was starting for home the next morning, he came to a party of Mormon emigrants who had just arrived from their long journey across the plains. He stopped to speak to their captain, and ask him news of the Saints farther east. As they talked, a little six-year-old girl ran up to the captain and caught hold of his hand. It was then that he told Mr. Marsden this story: The family had set out from Holland to come to Utah for their religion. Mr. and Mrs. Van Dam, the child's parents, had had a pleasant little home in their native Dutch village, and had been happy there with their four children. But their faith called them to give up home and country. Herbert, the oldest boy, was nearly eleven?old enough to help with the younger children on the long voyage. The family parted from their friends and set out on a slow sailing vessel for the new land. The ocean crossed, they started across the plains in wagons drawn by ox-teams. Before many miles had been traveled, Father Van Dam died, and left the young mother to go on alone with the children. How tedious and lonely the journey must have been for her! Ill and exhausted from the hardships encountered and heart-broken by the loss of her husband, she never lived to see the Zion of her faith. Before the plains were crossed, she gave up her life soon after another little girl was born. The other emigrants brought the five children and the aged grandparents with them to Salt Lake City. "We don't know how to provide for the family," the captain


finished. "Sister Thurston has been caring for the baby, and she wants to keep it, and the youngest of the others. The boy can probably work and help us here. But what we shall do with this little girl and her sister, who is eight, I don't know. I would be glad to adopt her, but we haven't yet made our home, and it is hard to see clearly how we are to provide for these orphans." Brother Marsden's heart was touched as he listened to the story. "I have my home made," he said. "I'll take her home with me and treat her as my own." "I'll take her sister," spoke up his companion, Brother Johnson. "If she's eight, she'll probably be old enough to help with the work." That journey to her new home must have been strange and wonderful to little Lottie Van Dam. The stretching sagebrush flats were a contrast indeed to the green and flowering land of Holland. Sitting up on the high spring-seat of the wagon beside the austere though kind pioneer who had resolved to give her a home, she must have felt afraid and lonely. In the evening, they arrived at the big homestead, with its log cabin surrounded by young trees. Beyond the house were the sheds and barns, and fields of meadow-land. Beyond them, the sagebrush stretched away to the mountains. "Here's a little girl I brought home with me, Mother," Lottie's benefactor called as he swung her down from the wagon. "Her father and mother are dead." "My, how dusty and ragged she looks," said Mother Marsden. "Come in, child, and I'll clean you up." But little Lottie only looked in a bewildered way from one to the other. She knew not a word of English and they not a word of Dutch. She soon learned the language, though, for she was quick and bright, and she played and prattled all the day with the Marsdens' five-year-old son. As Lottie grew up, she worked hard to show her gratitude to the people who had given her a home. The Marsden babies looked upon her as their real older sister, and with good reason. She was their fun-loving playmate and patient nurse. Many times, she carried a baby in one arm, while she swept the floors or pounded the dasher of the churn up and down with the other. In return, Mr. Marsden kept his promise to "treat her as his own." He and his wife loved Lottie as a daughter. Life was not easy in a pioneer ranch-house on the edge of the desert. On washdays water had to be carried from the spring below the house. The cows had to be milked, and the big pans of milk put in the little room over the spring, so that the cream would rise. The porches and floors were kept clean by
LIKE A QUIET STREAM 397
scrubbing them with sand and lye until the boards were quite smooth and yellow. Lottie learned housekeeping by the simple process of experience. Mother Marsden trained her in the rudiments of reading and writing, and for a little while during one or two winters, Lottie went to school in a nearby town; but as a general rule, there was no time for "formal education." There were many other more useful things to be learned?how to sew, to keep house, how to weave rag rugs and make quilts, how to bake and cook and churn, and how to care for babies. The work-day began when the sun came up or before, and ended after dark. The Marsden children, all younger than Lottie, needed care and help, and Lottie's kind heart loved them deeply and her capable hands tended them patiently. At last the Marsden girls were old enough to help their mother, and Lottie was given the opportunity to go away for a year of schooling. She was so thrilled that her hands trembled and she could hardly fasten the straps of her "telescope." When the school year was over, she came back to her faithful duties. She always tried to determine what it was her duty to do, and then she did it. The Marsdens' home was two miles from their nearest neighbors', and Lottie had few intimate friends of her own age. Two miles was rather too far to walk to seek companionship when there was always so much work to be done. If there was a dance or a ward-social in the nearby village, Lottie was nearly always too tired to go. She was past the age when most pioneer girls married. Probably her friends said, "Lottie will make a good wife for some man. She is so sweet-tempered and kind and such a capable housekeeper. It seems too bad for her to become an old maid." Among the many people who came to the Marsdens' to visit, or stopped to spend the night on their way farther west, there were very few of Lottie's own age?most of them were much older. In spite of this, she was rarely lonely?she was too busy for that. The doors of that pioneer home were always open to both friends and strangers. When John Rogers came to spend a few days, Mr. Marsden welcomed him with especial pleasure. John was a man of quiet disposition?respected, upright, kindly. He was old enough to be established in life. Humor, intelligence and refinement in a woman meant more to him than pretty clothes and graceful dancing. Perhaps his eyes followed Lottie as she hurried quietly about the house doing her work. Perhaps, too, he heard how sweetly and patiently her voice answered the younger members of the family. At any rate, he fell in love with Lottie. He came more and more often to the big homestead, and it was


obviously not to talk with Mr. Marsden about cattle. After a few months, John and Lottie were married. Very thrilled and happy, Lottie packed her few homespun clothes to move to her new home in Salt Lake City. The experience in housekeeping which she had gained in her younger days was very useful to her. John always came to a neat, pleasant little house, a good supper, and a smiling wife. In return, he tried to make the work easy for her. His truest pleasure was to see her eyes shine when he brought home a present for her?a pot of flowers, or a new dress or shawl. "You look pretty in that," he said one night, when Lottie was wearing a new grey silk he had bought for her. "I love it, but I feel almost guilty when I wear it, John," she answered, thinking of the many "handed-down" dresses she had made over, turning them inside out to hide the faded spots. It seemed almost wicked to her to have a new silk dress all her own. She would have been happier if she had made over one of her old dresses and seen one of her younger sisters in the new silk. They were very happy together for a few years. All their neighbors were their friends. Lottie's lively sense of humor lightened John's more sober, quiet disposition. A few years?and then Lottie was left a widow. She had always loved children so much and made friends with them so easily and had none of her own. Instead, she seemed like a mother to all the children in the neighborhood. In the mornings, Lottie hurried about her house, systematically and deftly doing the work. In the afternoons, she often worked in her garden. She seemed to have a special power with flowers, and she loved to plant them and tend them until they came into bloom. Perhaps her ancestors in Holland had been flower-growers. The children coming home from school used to run into her yard to tell "Aunt Lottie" of their little adventures, and to coax her to give them bouquets. They never failed to find her interested in what they were doing, and seldom did one go home without at least one flower. Somehow in the midst of her busy mind she reserved a place to remember all the little hobbies dear to each one, and even to remember their birthdays. Not long ago, a neighbor who called, found Lottie, after a hard day's work, packing birthday presents to send to some of the children who had grown up and moved to California. When one of her neighbors and his wife had to leave town before school was out and go out to their farm, their children stayed with "Aunt Lottie" in order to finish their school. She made her home so pleasant to them that they hardly missed being away from their own. She always cared for the neighborhood children while their mothers were busy or ill.