Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde Are we anxious to serve our country? Are we willing to fight the food fight as our boys are fighting the physical and mental fight with the enemies? If we are, then let us consider the sugar question from a sane, economical and saving viewpoint, rather than to feel we are greatly imposed upon or asked to make a great sacrifice. In the first place, have we not in the past been rather extravagant and too heavy users of sugar? According to statistics the American people, last year, spent enough money for candy alone to feed all Belgium for two years. Perhaps if we used less sugar, which is really an energy producer, we would not have so much surplus energy going to waste. It requires a great deal of forethought and planning to create means by which this surplus energy may be used. We are seeking amusements, and every form of pleasure to make an outlet for the accumulation of this excess energy which has been produced by the over-indulgence in too much sugar foods. It would be wise for us to get our body fuel from potatoes, and other starchy foods, rather than from sugar. True it is, that sugar excels in energy only because it produces energy more quickly, but the starchy foods excel sugar since they supply more than merely the sugar need. Let us try during such times of stress and strain as we are undergoing at the present to cultivate a taste for the natural sweetness of fruits and other foods to which we have been in the habit of adding great quantities of sugar. Let us eat less confections and sweet cakes, less candy. There are many wonderful sweet-meats and dainties made without sugar which we should plan to take the place of the more extravagant and less healthful foods. The wonderful healthy condition in which our pioneer people found themselves was due largely to the absence of rich and heavy foods. The very things which the Government is asking us to do today are the exact things which we have been taught from the very beginning of our entrance into the valley, that of using great wisdom in the consuming and conservation of foods. We have before us their sturdy example of sacrifice and willing- HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 581 ness to do without, and the results thus obtained from careful and judicious living. During the next three months we will have the large fruits to care for, such as peaches, pears, quinces, apples, etc. It is our duty to supply our family with the necessary fruits for the winter and feel that we are preserving fruit and not the sugar for future use. The custom of canning fruit in sugar is based on the improvement of flavor and texture which sugar gives to the fruit. Sugar is not necessary for its preservation. Success depends upon thorough sterilization, that is, in killing the organisms which cause food to spoil. Then sealing most carefully and perfectly to prevent the entrance of other bacteria into the fruit after it has been thoroughly prepared. Cook the fruit in the same manner as if you were going to use sugar. Can while hot, and seal in the usual way. Juices may be extracted as if for jelly, sealed while hot and kept until ready to make into jelly during the winter months. It is even more practical to can the juices than to waste the fuel at the present time, as during the winter months those who use the coal stoves have fires practically all day and the same heat which is used to make the family comfortable can be used in converting the juices into jelly, thus saving heat and a great deal of energy which jelly-making requires during the hot summer months. Then, too, the freshly made jelly is more delicious in flavor than that which has stood for some length of time. Then, there is the drying of fruits which is always safe and sure, and no one has had more experience along this line than our pioneer mothers from whom we can learn so much. The Government has recommended that we use substitutes, such as syrup, molasses and honey, but we feel that in most localities this would not be practical, as the substitutes are as scarce as sugar, and quite as expensive. We are attaching, however, some recipes which may be used by those who have and care to use the substitutes, mentioned above. We should not depend entirely upon the fresh and canned fruits for our supply but make the dried fruits a specialty this year, because of the sugar conditions. May we ask our sisters to adhere strictly to the sugar regulations without complaint or murmur, but feel that we are doing our loyal duty to assist in winning this great war of justice to mankind. We are attaching hereto a sugar table which we hope will be religiously taught to the family that they, too, may take part and be interested in the sugar saving campaign, 
 Guide in Using Sugar. Monthly Ration, 2 pounds: 30-31 days, 2 pounds. Approximate Daily Ration. 1 day, 1 ounce, or 1 day, 2 level tablespoons, or 1 day, 1 spoon for beverages. 3 level teaspoons in cooked food, or 1 day, 6 half lumps (1x9/16x3/8 inches). 1 lump  3 times a day in beverages 1 lump equivalent to the sweet in food at each meal. Using Average Household Teaspoon. Teaspoons per pound. 96 level teaspoons (average household teaspoon) 1 pound 48 rounded teaspoons (average household teaspoon) 1 pound 32 to 40 heaping teaspoons (average household teaspoon) 1 pound. Honey, maple syrup, molasses, white cane, or corn syrup, may be used in the following receipts with practically the same proportion as given for sorghum. Sorghum in Canning and Preserving. If sorghum or other home made syrup or molasses is used as a sugar substitute, better results are obtained if the sorghum is first boiled with soda, using 1 teaspoon of soda to each gallon of syrup. Let the mixture boil up at once, cool it slightly and skim. It is then ready to use. Boiling and skimming the sorghum even without the addition of soda before using improves the flavor. Canned Peaches. A good way to pack a jar is to cover bottom of jar with peaches then pour in a little syrup, then more peaches and more syrup till the jar is full, packing jar tight. In this way the syrup fills the openings between the peaches as the packing progresses and fewer air bubbles form. Six very large peaches will fill a pint jar. If the peaches are hard they may be cooked in the syrup till tender, packed in the hot sterilized jars, the boiling syrup poured over and processed 10 min. for pts.. 15 min. for qts., or the syrup may be boiled for 3 min. After peaches are removed to hot jar, the boiling syrup is poured in and jars sealed. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 583 Peach Marmalade. Very ripe, soft peaches are best, but any peaches will do. A good marmalade may be made using unpared peaches. In this case scrub well, cut the fruit, either pared or unpared, into small pieces of uniform size, place in a stew kettle with very little water, using just enough to keep the fruit from burning. Begin cooking over a slow fire with the lid on kettle. Stir frequently. As soon as the fruit is boiling, remove the lid, increase heat and cook rapidly, stirring constantly. Peaches burn more readily than other fruit. As soon as the fruit is soft and tender mash with a spoon, or if a smoother marmalade is desired put through a coarse colander. Measure, and for each cup of cooked fruit allow one quart cup of the boiled syrup. Mix fruit and syrup well. Cook till clear, stirring constantly, as a mixture containing syrup burns more quickly than one containing sugar. As soon as the mixture is clear it may be put into hot, sterilized jars and sealed, or it may be cooked till thick and jelly-like. In which case it may be kept in glasses just as jelly is kept. This marmalade may be flavored to taste with lemon juice, cinnamon, ginger, cloves or any one or any combination of them. Apple Marmalade. Very good apple marmalade and apple butter can be made with syrups. Cook the apples till tender, using very little water. In preparing the apples cut into small pieces of uniform size, so as to expedite the cooking, and do not mix varieties till after they are cooked. By following this plan the fruit will cook in uniform time with no danger of some burning before the other is cooked. Cinnamon is the best spice to use with apples. To each cup of cooked fruit use  cup boiled syrup. Proceed as with peach marmalade. If the combination of fruit and syrup is highly flavored with a combination of spices the mixture need not be cooked till as thick as for marmalade, and will make a fruit butter much better liked by some than the stiffer marmalade. Pears or quinces may be used for marmalade or butter as are apples; but pears, lacking a decided flavor of their own, are improved by the addition of lemon juice or some other flavor. Mixed fruit marmalade. A mixture of peach, apple and pineapple in the proportion of 1 cup of cooked peach, 1 cup of cooked apple and  cup raw grated pineapple makes a delicious marmalade  using  cup of syrup to each cup of the fruit mixture. 
 Apple and quince is also a good combination. 1 cup of cooked quince and 1 cup of cooked apple, using  cup of syrup to each cup of the fruit mixture, and proceeding as with peach marmalade. Grapes make a delicious sauce for serving with meats. Use either fully ripe or partly ripe grapes. Separate the skins and pulp after washing and stemming. Cook separately. Put the pulp through the ricer or colander to remove seeds. Mix the skins and pulp and for each cup of mixture of ripe grapes allow  cup of syrup. Proceed as for other fruit marmalades. For partly ripe grapes use  cup of syrup to each cup of fruit. Use no water in the cooking of the grapes. Pear and pineapple is also a good mixture. Using 1 cup of cooked pear and  cup of raw grated pineapple with  cup of syrup to each cup of the fruit mixture. In making marmalades and fruit butter with syrups be very careful to use little or no water in the cooking of the fruit and cook the fruit till soft and tender before combining with the syrup. Such fruits as grapes and plums need no water but can be cooked in their own juices. If a clear, unflavored corn syrup is used it is not necessary to boil with soda before using; but sorghum and all "home made" syrups are improved by this boiling with soda and skimming before using in the fruit combinations. Sorghum may be used in recipes for pickled pears, pickled peaches, and sweet cucumbers or watermelon pickles where brown or white sugar has previously been used. Sweet Pickled Beets.  gal. baby beets 3 tbsp. mixed pickle spices. 3 C. vinegar  tbsp. salt. 3 C. Sorghum. Wash beets, leaving roots and about 3 in. stems on to prevent bleeding, cook until tender. While beets are being skinned, put vinegar sorghum, salt and spices on the fire and allow to boil 3 min. Pack beets in  gal. jars and pour boiling sorghum over them at once, filling jars. Fasten covers on tightly, invert to test for leakage, and store in dark place. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The Fourth government liberty loan is set for September 28, and at least two more loans will come in 1919. Peru is having war at home, in the form of an insurrection which broke out in August. Hailstorms in August destroyed a considerable acreage of crops in Montana. The Fruit Crop in Utah is reported much smaller in 1918 than in the previous year. Prohibition in the United States has been deferred for the present but is promised on July 1, 1919. Sugar in the United States went up in price and down in quantity after September 1. Americans in large force were landed in Siberia in August, in connection with British and Japanese troops. Switzerland was having serious trouble in August, between labor organizations and government officials there. Automobiles for pleasure riding are to be barred to a great extent in the United States after Jan. 1, 1919. Blood continues to flow freely in Russia, from executions by the soldiers and workmen's government there, called Bolsheviki. "Thread Cards." owing to the scarcity of flax and linen, are likely to become a rule in the United States in the near future. Russia has declared war on the United States, at least that considerable portion thereof which is controlled by the Bolsheviki government. Japan had food riots in August, in which more than a quarter of a million of the population engaged, and over 300 persons were killed. 
 Two American congressmen in France, in August, were refused permission to visit the British front for the reason that "they talked too much." Moral Cleanliness in the American army in France is the subject of a general order issued in August, by Gen. Pershing. The necessity for such an order arouses thoughtful comment. Draft age in the United States was extended for army purposes in August, to all men over 18 years and under 46 years of age on September 14, 1918. Sermons on the wickedness of war have been superseded in the churches throughout the United States by sermons on the unrighteousness of peace under prevailing conditions. German submarines in American waters in August did material damages to shipping along the Atlantic coast, but no American transports were caught. Government operation of railways showed a loss of $290,000,000 the first six months of 1918, as compared with private operation for a like period previously. Great Britain and France now have plenty of food to carry them over to the next harvest, according to the report of the U. S. food administrator, made in August. One hundred I. W. W. leaders were convicted in the United States court in Illinois, in August, for actions adverse to the government interests in the present war. Our own Utah lawyer. Frank Nebeker, conducted the historic trial. Francisco Villa, Mexican bandit, is again active. During August, his followers attacked two railway trains in Mexico, and killed more than 100 persons, men, women, and children. Jacob H. Gallinger, United States Senator from New Hampshire, died in August. He was a consistent and persistent friend to the people of Utah when they needed friends. Tanks in war seem to be comparatively more effective than airplanes, taking into consideration the war bulletins during the Entente allies' victories in France in August, although both are essential.