
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1884.		No. 1.


BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

Down in the meadows, where the cowslips spring,
	And the sweet clover breath is in the air,
There where the thrush and blue bird sweetly sing,
	Dame Nature in her robes do wondrous fair,
	Holds her communion with the regal night,
	And blushes in the dawn of early light.

What picture hath the artist ever drawn
	That could compare in loveliness and grace
With nature in her rudest, wildest form,
	No matter in what climate, time, or place,
	So skillfully is ev'ry figure wrought,
	So delicate with feeling is it fraught.

In grove, and field, and vale, in forest glade,
	On snowy heights, where man may scarcely tread,
On flow'r, or shrub, and ev'ry grassy blade
	That lifts from earth its tiny, modest head,
	In coral reef, or sea beach shining sand,
	We see the seal of an Almightly hand.

I cannot tell how greatly I delight
	In all the beauties of the earth and heaven,
How ardently I reverence the light
	Which our good Father has so wisely given.
	The sun and the moon, and all the stars that shine
	With the effulgence of a power divine.

These speak to us in language most sublime,
	And most exalting to the human soul;
And all the changes of the hand of time,
	Which in thier order and their seasons roll,
	Bespeak the presence of a God of love,
	And grandly all the forces seem to move.

Harmonious in its sphere each swee[s along
	In measured time and method, year by year,
And nature's voices in triumphant song,
	Ring out their echoes sweet, distinct and clear,
	That linger 'moung the everlasting hills,
	Or dance to rhythm in the sparkling rills.

Music in which the heavens might rejoice,
	So gifted and so repturous the lay,
For nature with a universal voice
	Unites to celebrate each new born day;
	And thus from morn to eve, and eve to morn,
	All beauty and all grace the earth adorn.

So we admire, adore, and pass along,
	Yet linger most where sweetest flow'rs are strawn,
And while we mingle in the busy throng
	We often feel "'twere good to be alone"
	To meditate in Nature's haunts apart,
	In silence and humility of heart.

O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature hath conceal'd;
The knowledge of her science-- hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been reveal'd;
	Nor will it be till we have proved how true,
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.
									EMILE.


<b -oibo="" obeloirrallephtb="" descendedyie="" dfi,itd="" stii="" taxisc="" in="" krand="" euvlmlty="" n.="" ici="" -l8vjttsowt-aubcights.fitmally,="" v="" -tfefbrei1="" -lev’ua="" yeihembbr="" -feifii7.="" who="" laid="" -="" dbwiilirfe1="" 'forll‘you="" and="" for'="" mfej’and="" rwho="" hath="" said,="" “i-'a'id'hhe5="" way?="" the1="" trdth!="" anctlhe="" ilfecomexoliow="" !'me,'for="" blessed="" holy="" are="" all="" they="" -who-have.part-in-the-firstresurrection,="" c??d="" 4eath,hath.noer.”="" how="" glorious="" wiu.it..="" be="" when="" we="" can="" say,="" r.-r.ur="" :="" ,r="" i.i?:="" vu="" “unguarded="" stands="" the="" tree="" of="" life.="" securely="" bound-the="" king'of="" strife;="" yn="" la'?="" immorlal.'world,'immortal="" sky,!="" -j-rivit="" o.teternalllfc—norn'dfo.td="" die.';="" l-'-lt="" offj="" aijm="" -ye;="" v.'t="" mma.s.="" buu="" 'iladies’'="" trasilfil="" thought,="" 'a1="" ‘="" manuscript1="" ’="" paper="" issued="" monthly="" by="" the;="" a'pdf="" mwafd'="" ogden.="" ‘i'v.-q="" f.uii="" jjhitfflb.’i="" ;r.l="">MISSION<b -oibo="" obeloirrallephtb="" descendedyie="" dfi,itd="" stii="" taxisc="" in="" krand="" euvlmlty="" n.="" ici="" -l8vjttsowt-aubcights.fitmally,="" v="" -tfefbrei1="" -lev’ua="" yeihembbr="" -feifii7.="" who="" laid="" -="" dbwiilirfe1="" 'forll‘you="" and="" for'="" mfej’and="" rwho="" hath="" said,="" “i-'a'id'hhe5="" way?="" the1="" trdth!="" anctlhe="" ilfecomexoliow="" !'me,'for="" blessed="" holy="" are="" all="" they="" -who-have.part-in-the-firstresurrection,="" c??d="" 4eath,hath.noer.”="" how="" glorious="" wiu.it..="" be="" when="" we="" can="" say,="" r.-r.ur="" :="" ,r="" i.i?:="" vu="" “unguarded="" stands="" the="" tree="" of="" life.="" securely="" bound-the="" king'of="" strife;="" yn="" la'?="" immorlal.'world,'immortal="" sky,!="" -j-rivit="" o.teternalllfc—norn'dfo.td="" die.';="" l-'-lt="" offj="" aijm="" -ye;="" v.'t="" mma.s.="" buu="" 'iladies’'="" trasilfil="" thought,="" 'a1="" ‘="" manuscript1="" ’="" paper="" issued="" monthly="" by="" the;="" a'pdf="" mwafd'="" ogden.="" ‘i'v.-q="" f.uii="" jjhitfflb.’i="" ;r.l=""> AND SUFFERING OF CHRIST.

	Our Savior! Behold Him crowned with
thorns, heaped with insults and reproaches,
subjected to cruel taunts and jeers, reviled and 
persecuted, and at last pursuing His toilsome
way towards the bloody mount of sacrifice. 
Three hours of agony! with the cruel nails
driven through the stainless hands, that had
never wrought evil deeds, piercing the quiver-
ing flesh of the holy feet that had never trod-
den forbidden paths, with lips of anguish that 
had never uttered words of guile, a heart un-
sullied with evil intents, throbbing beneath
the cruel pain, a mind unspotted with wicked 
designs, and a life pure in the sight of all the 
myriad hosts of earth and heaven, and yet cru-
cified, wounded and bleeding. He was put to 
death in open shame, a holy sacrifice for the
sin of the benighted and fallen world, whose
inhabitants could never hope to regain the
presence of their Father and God without a 
Savior's atoning blood. And yet in the infin-
ite and unbounded mercy and charity of His
soul, as He looked down from the height of the 
rude cross that held His bleeding limbs and 
body, His lips could utter, "Father forgive
them, for they know not what they do!" The 
dying words were spoken: "It is finished!" and 
the pure spirit fled. But as the wild fury of 
the wrath of heaven burst forth over the land,
all nature was convulsed in the throes of her
agony; the earch trembled beneath the power
of God, and the rocks were rent asunder and 
scattered in broken fragments upon the face of 
the land; while the lurid shafts of lightning 
that marked the broad expanse of heaven with
trails of fire, told with all the magnificent elo-
quence of their flaming tongues that nature's 
God was slain, and the crashing thunders that
shook the earth to its foundations, spoke with
all the majestic power of their terrific voices of
the guileless Nazarene while the sun hid his 
shining glory from the eyes of mankind be-
hind the sombre shades of heaven's pall, and
the moon and stars veiledtheir lustrous faces
beneath the sable curtains of the blackest night
of gloom that ever wrapped its shades over the 
face of earth since the morn of creation. A
darkness too great for the earthly light to pene-
trate, for the light and the life of the world
had been slain. The spirit had flown beyond,
while the casket lay in its rocky sepulchre;
therefore how great, indeed, was the darkness, 
while the habitations of the wicked were made 
to suffer the vengeance of a just God by the 
power of the tempest, whirlwind, earthquake,
and devouring fire, and there was mourning,
lamentation and desolation throughout the land.
	Three days of darkness and the shades flee
away. The sun once more reclaimed his pow-
er, and shone upon a world redeemed, while 
He, who had power to lay down His life and
take it up again, stood upon the earth with im-
mortal feet. triumphant over all, holding the 
shattered chains of death and the broken fet-
ters of hell within His grasp. Captivity hath 
been led captive; the prison doors have been 
unbarred, and the glad light of the resurrec-
tion hath shone within; the shackles of the
captives have been unloosed, and the way
pointed out which if followed obediently will
lead them forward to the heights beyond. The 
grave gives up the treasured dust it has held so
long, but can keep no longer, flesh, bone and 
sinew unite again, and quickened by the orig-
inal spirit that formerly dwelt in its body of 
clay, becomes a beautiful and glorious taber-
nacle of light, beyond the grasp of sin and 
pain. 
	Oh, grave! thy victory is wrested from thee; 
thy power forever broken. Thou may'st claim
the frail and weary clay, but thou can'st not 
keep the immortal element beyond thy time, 
for the freedom that hath swept thy fetters a-
sunder was bought and sealed with the purest 
blood that ever flowed on earth. 
	"For every thorn that pierced His brow
	Unnumbered gems are glittering now;
		Below all dephts descended He
	To rise in grand sublimity
	Above all heights eternally,
		And set the ransomed prisoners free."
[Column 3]
	Therefore let us remember Him who laid
down His life for you and for me, and who
hath said, "I am the way, the truth and the
life, come follow me, for blessed and holy are
all they who have part in the first resurrection,
for on them the second death hath no power."
How glorious will it be when we can all
say,
	"Unguarded stands the tree of life,
	Securely bound the king of strife;
	Immortal world, immortal sky,
	Eternal life- no more to die"
						M. A. S.
	From the Young Ladies' Treasury of
Thought, a manuscript paper issued monthly
by the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 4th Ward of
Ogden.


EXTRACT FROM LAIE LETTER.
		Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands,
					April 17th, 1884.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Secretary of the gener-
al organization of Relief Society:
Dear Sister, I improve the first opportunity
after our conference to send you a condensed
report of teh branches of Relief Society on the
Sandwich Islands. (Report will accompany
the letter.)
Our societies are scattered, and in some lo-
calities have but few members. Our sisters
here compare favorable with those at home for
punctuality in attending meetings, and if I
may judge others by those on this island, they
are faithful in donating and providing for the
sick and destitute; they are liberal with their
means, but not tender nurses.
The Islanders, as a people, adhere strongly
to old traditions and sorceries, it is no uncom-
mon thing to find them trying to pray each 
other to death. Their doctors use old spells
and charms as restoratives for the sick. Among 
the natives we find but comparatively few
deep thinkers who are capable of exercising an
intelligent and abiding faith in the principles
of the Gospel. Though not thorough students
there is among them a perceptible improve-
ment, could some of our Elders who labored
so faithfully here years ago have attended our
recent conference it would have made their
hearts glad to look upon so well dressed and
respectable looking an assembly as I saw seated
in our pleasant new meeting house. The sing-
ing gallery was occupied by the Laie and Hon-
olulu choirs. The singing was creditable.	*
*		*		* There are but few
books printed in the native language, the Bible
is the principal one; this the natives know al-
most by heart, they quote Scripture as fast as
they can talk.
I have introduced sewing into the society.
Sister Young and I meet with them and in-
struct them in economizing material, etc., we
find it embarrassing not to be able to speak the
language well. The sisters are pleased when
they are doing as they think the sisters in Zion
do. We are trying to help them all we can.
There are at present two Chiefess' visiting
Laie; they are cousins, tall, fine looking wom-
en, each of them weighing over 200 pounds.
One, Kapukini by name, has been a member of
the Church a number of years, is president of 
the Relief Society on Maui. She is a woman 
of as much intelligence as any  [---] the na-
tives, and talks of going to Utah. The other


is called Anne Tikelike, she is a daughter of
Kauhunahepie, who was a faithful member of
the Church and an influential man when Bro.
Cannon was here. She says her father while
he lived taught her that Mormonism was true.
She finally made up her mind to join the
Church and came to Laie and requested bap-
tism. She is a very fine specimen of a 
Chiefess.
	Praying for the success of those who labor
for the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
				SARAH L. PARTRIDGE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)
   Previous to this an express had been sent by 
the President to Mt. Pisgah to raise one hun-
dred men for the expedition over the moun-
tains, and the day before their arrival Brother
Woodruff had called for mounted volunteers,
when "sixty at once stepped out into line."
But the day following the people there were
thrown into consternation by the sudden cry,
"The United States troops are upon us!"  But
it soon proved to be Captain James Allen with
three dragoons--who after making known his
business in the High Council at that place,
was furnished with a letter of introduction to
the President and authorities at Council Bluffs
and Brother Woodruff dispatched a messenger
to prepare them for the business of this govern-
ment agent.
   On the 7th of July they began crossing the
Missouri River.  That day Horace and the
other boys returned from their trading trip in
the Platt country, having met with no other
accident than the breaking of a yoke and a
wagon tongue, the latter happened to Hans
Hanson while along on the prairie.  There
was but one boat and that capable of holding
only three wagons at a time.  Our cows were
driven across on the 8th, and we came down to
the landing in the afternoon, but a number of
teams were ahead of us, and we had to wait
till one a.m. before we could commence cross-
ing over.  Horace wrote:
   "Thursday, 9th.  We were blessed with a
fine moonlight night, which aided us greatly in
crossing. This morning drove our oxen into the
river to swim them across, but they would not
go, an account of the reflection of the sun's
rays upon the water, which dazzled their eyes,
consequently had to take them over in the boat
--at about five o'clock had everything over but
two oxen which were missing.  Had a very
hard rain while we were going out to the camp
--four miles from the  river, where we all ar-
rived to-night pretty well fatigued.  We just
learned that Bishop Miller,  who has gone
ahead, has had his horses stolen."
   "Friday, 10th. Rainy this morning.  Fath-
er came up to-day, he crossed soon after we
did, but stayed in the woods last night, and
was detained some time, having lost some of
his cattle, but he found them again.	*	*
Joseph Herring, an Indian of the Mohawk
tribe, has just come from the south-west; he
tells us that there is a civil war among the
Cherokees on account of one party of them
selling land to the United States.  He had to
escape to save his life, and had travelled 200
miles on his pony in three days.  This after-
noon we moved about [-] of a mile beyond and
located ourselves on a small rise of ground--
being much more commodious and cleanly
than the place where Brigham is.		*	*
Very good springs of water in the vicinity.
Quite a large creek about 3/4 of a mile distant.
The Indians have cornfields immediately
around us, and on that account we have to keep
close watch on our horses and cattle lest they
should break into them."
   I remember the scenes he describes and the
camping fires; also of going to the creek men-
tioned to do our washing, as well as the corn-
fields that we passed, they being the first we
had seen;and of our purchasing some of the
ears to roast.  It looked good to us to once
more see vegetation and cultivated land, or
anything resembling civilization after travel-
ling as we had and camped for so long a time
upon wild prairie land.  It was to us like an
oasis to the weary traveler in the midst of a
wilderness, and reminded us of our western
homes, where the tall cornfields waved o'er our
heads, and where we had learned the art of
making hoe cake, which was our "daily bread"
with hominy and the luxurious gravy from
transparent pork.
   Here we first met our staunch young friend,
Col. Kane, who came to our camp on the 12th,
being Sunday, and made a speech that evening
concerning the recruiting orders given to Capt.
Allen to raise a regiment of volunteers from
among the "Mormons.' on such conditions that
it would be an advantage to us.  Brothers O.
Pratt and G. A. Smith also made appropriate
speeches, ratifying what Col. Kane had said.
"This young man," wrote Horace, "appears to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord to
bring about our salvation at the present time.
The United States' fleet have taken possession
of the coast of California.  By doing this we
establish a certain claim on the land, and once
there ours will be the majority of people."
   We learned that father and B. Young were
at the camp on the Bluffs, and that they were
all full of life and bustle--that over 300 had
enlisted,  Those who could went to see them,
some in carriages and some on horseback. My
mother went with others of our family and I
was to have gone horseback, but the boys all
wanting to go, and not having horses enough,
I stayed back--Horace and others returned
that evening, but father and mother remained.
We learned that one hundred men were yet
wanting to complete the recuiting list.
   The following is from the life of Brigham
Young:
   "Brigham Young, while believing the battal-
ion call to be a test of loyalty, hastened with
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards to
Mt. Pisgah, 130 miles, to execcute the "de
mand," as they deemed fit, for a battalion of
their picked men to serve their country.  They
immediately sent messengers, with official des-
patches from their high councils, to Nauvoo,
Garden Grove, and the regions around, calling
to head-quarters their old men and able-bodied
boys to supply the place of their picked men
going for the service of their country."
   "Returning to Council Bluffs, they gathered
the "Camp of Israel" to enroll the companies
of volunteers.  While Major Hunt' of the vol-
unteers, was calling out the first company,
Brigham Young conversed with Col. Kane in
Bro. Woodruff's carriage about the affairs of
the nation, and told him the time would come
when the Mormons would have to  save  the
Government of the U.S., or it would crumble
to atoms."
	"Forty minutes after twelve of the same day,
July 15th, the Elders and the people assembled
in the Bowery.  President Young then deliv-
ered to the congregation a simple but earnest
speech, in which he told the brethren, with a
touch of subdued pathos, "not  time to reason
now."  "We want," he said, "to conform to
the requisition made upon us," and we will do
nothing else until we have accomplished this
thing.   If we want the privilege of going
where we can worship God according to the
dictates of our own consciences, we must raise
the battalion.  I say it is right; and who cares
for sacrificing our comfort for a few years?	*
*	*	*	*	I want to say to every
man, the Constitution of the United States, as
formed by our fathers, was dictated, was re-
vealed, was put into their  hearts by the Al-
mighty, who sits enthroned in the midst of the
heavens; although unknown to them, it was
dictated by  the revelations of Jesus Christ; it
is as good as ever I could ask for.  I say unto
you, magnify the law.  There is no law in the 
United States, or in the Constitution, but I am
ready to make honorable."
   "Thursday, 16th. (Horace wrote) A meeting
was called at our camp--the people were told
to choose whether they would go over the
mountains with Bishop Miller to Grand Island
or to go back ou the other side of the river--
the most of them were for going on with Mil-
ler.  There was also a call made for more vol-
unteers for the war.  Brother Kimball, father
and Brigham started to go over the river to
the Bluffs--there to hold another council--
then they intend with some of the  Twelve to
go up the river some distance to seek a location
for us this winter.  Wm. and wife, Helen,
Sarah Lawrence, Harriet Sanders and myself
accompanied them to the Bluffs.		*	*
After going about a mile and a half from the
ferry on the other side, the brethren were met
by a number of the Twelve and others going
down to the village; being near Bro. George
A.'s camp they stopped there and held coun-
cil.  I rode on with the girls and we reached
the camp."
	Here we found a number of our old acquan-
tances--among them were Bros. Robert Pierce
and Cooledge and our families.  This camp was
much larger than ours and consisted principal-
ly of those who left Nauvoo long after our de-
parture.  Horace, myself, and Sarah Lawrence
stopped with Bro. Cooledge's folks that night.
Horace wrote:  "Friday, 17th. A meeting was
called this morning  and considerable business
done--there was quite a subscription taken in
behalf of Bro. Yokum, who lost a limb in the
Missouri persecution. and had suffered a great
deal--some gave him money, some flour, etc.
*	*	*		Wm., myself and the
girls took a short ride into the country this
forenoon, and about three p.m. started for
home, which we reached about sunset."  The
next day President B. Young and father went
some fifteen or twenty mile, up the river in
search of a suitable place to winter, but not.
finding any they came back, previously send-
ing on six men in search of some good place.
   Sunday, 19th.  They held a meeting in or-
der to find out who were going over the moun-
tains and who were not going to Grand Island.
   "They made out some fifty wagons which,"
Horace says, "were to go ahead--join Miller
and proceed with him over the mountains.
Brigham spoke severely of brethren, who being
set to watch cattle, fell asleep at their posts
and suffered them to roam into the Indian's
cornfields,	*	*	and those found
guilty of like acts again should be expelled
from the camp of Israel, for they were a per-
fect disgrace to us."
    "Monday, 20th.		*	Brother James
Smithers and Jacob Hutchinson went over the
river to join the rest of the band in a party
which they held over there to-day."


A man is known by his company, and his
company by his manners.—Swift.
  
 	Without economy none can be rich, and with
it few can be poor.—Dr. Johnson.

 	In all things throughout the world, the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.—Ruskin.

 	Mind the paint. Don't touch pitch. Go the
other side the road rather than shake hands
with one who may draw you along with him in
the path of evil.—G. Everard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿	[-]


THE CAPTIVE HEART.

	ORIGINAL.

My heart was once a caged bird,
	That slipped its prison bars one day,
And through the bright empyrean blue,
	From home and friends soared far away.

While skimming through the Jinden trees
	It stopped to chant a simple lay;
When looking down it saw, forsooth,
	One of God's angels pass that way.

A form so fair, of heavenly mold,
	Moving along with dainty grace,
That e'en the earth-flowers crowd her path;
	They rare had seen so sweet a face.

The bird its heavenward course forgot,
	And quickly back to earth it flew,
Into that bosom nestling crept,
	Captive again, for love of you.

Now, gentle friend, my heart restore,
	And let it wander fancy free;
Or if you will not, fair exchange,
	And let thy heart my captive be.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 7th, 1884.


LONELY THOUGHTS

'Tis vain to kneel beside the grave
Of buried hopes and pleasures,
And sigh for the companionship
Of those decaying treasures.

'Tis vain to brood o'er hours misspent
In idleness and sorrow,
And seek to expiate their loss
By borrowing from the morrow.

'Tis vain to try to heal the wounds
For unkind actions given.
Or tie the cord that sweetly binds
Our hearts to each when riven.

'Tis vain to hope to lead a life
Of usefulness and duty,
If in the soul the grace of God
Shine not in all its beauty.

'Tis vain to hope reward to reap
For service never given;
When God shall sift the good from bad,
And welcome them to heaven.

					SALINA ATKINS.
St. George.


<iw i<—-----i="" -dvtqmco="" of="" m<di="" aototerieseitdiaiitirrop:="" .kimualijbui="" .4="" -1u3="" istt="" q="" e="" <j-------="" ,="" 1="" 01="" trw="">A VENERABLE WOMAN

	PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL

			[Continued.]

   After Sister Presendia had moved into her
present home in the 16th Ward, President He-
ber C. Kimball gave her on one occasion a pe-
culiar blessing.  Bro. Kimball was a man who
when he was not too much annoyed with
worldly cares was full of blessings for the
Saints, and especially tender of his own family,
and often blest and prophesied upon those with
whom he was closely associated.  This particu-
lar blessing he told Sister presendia to write
and it should every word come to pass- It was
given April 7th, 1862.
   I want you Presendia, to go on the place I
have bought of Daniel Morse and take care of
it as my property, and you shall be blest in all
your labors, and everything shall prosper in 
your hands; be liberal and kind to the poor and
to the sick and; of your means and strength;
uphold me in your prayers and faith.  The 
angels that have guarded me through life are
those that guarded the ancient apostles in the
days of Jesus, they will be your guardian an-
gels, and the hand that is raised agianst you


shall be stayed, and it shall not prosper.  I
want you when you get moved to-day to write
this blessing, and it will be fulfilled; now go in
peace and prosper.  The blessing of
				PREST. H. C. KIMBALL
  After I got my household into the house I
asked my brother, Dimick B. Huntington, to
come over and dedicate my new home to the
Lord; he said when I had it cleaned and pre-
pared he would, but without waiting for him I
dedicated it myself to the best of my ability,
and with all the faith I could command com-
menced to clear up around and prepare for
making a garden, and planting trees and
shrubs of various kinds.  These grew and were
luxuriant and fruitful, a more prolific garden
there is not in the city.  I also bought a loom
and everything necessary to carry on weaving
and to make carpet and kinds of home manu-
factured cloth.  I have done all my own do-
mestic work and never have neglected waiting
on and attending to the sick for I felt it was
my mission in this life.
	Sister Presendia has indeed been an angel of
mercy at the bedside of many of the Latter-
day Saints when sick, and often, very often in-
deed, soothed their sufferings when dying.  She
has acted as a midwife and in faith and hu-
mility has done a noble work in this capacity.
	Her path has not been strewn with flowers,
but sharp and cruel thorns have pierced her
as it were on every hand, but now in her later
years, when her head is silvered o'er, and the
experience of her former life rises up before
her, she bows meekly in humble acknowledge-
ment and submission, and says it was good for
her to pass under the rod of affliction, for she
has learned to appreciate the feelings of others,
and knows how to sympathize with the trials
and sorrows of those who must pass through
similar ordeals if they expect to obtain a ce-
lestial glory and exaltation.


THE SABBATH DAY.
	We surely ought to appreciate the privileges
we enjoy; we are free to speak and act, but I
sometimes think we are apt to do wrong on ac-
count of not understanding our duty as we
should.
	There are so many nationalities among us,
each having their own peculiar notions, that
we are apt to partake of their ways, unless we
study and reflect for ourselves.  The Sabbath
day, for instance; some think it is designed for
a day of pleasure, but it is several years since
I went pleasure seeking on a Sabbath, without
it was to go to meeting or Stake Conference, or
something of that nature.  For the Savior
said when He was asked if it was lawful to heal
on the Sabbath day, "That if any man had a
sheep and it fell into a pit on the Sabbath day,
will he not lay hold on it and lift it out?  How
much more is a man better than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sab-
bath days" (Matt. xii, 12). Some may ask,
did not you used to go pleasure seeking on the
Sabbath when you were younger?  Yes, many
times, but I received a very severe and sorrow-
ful chastisement over five years ago, and I
have not forgotten it, although I sometimes
think I scarcely know how to do, for in an-
cient times, according to the Bible, they were
very strict.  If we read the 13th chapter of
Exodus 2nd and 3rd verses it says: "Six days
thou shalt labor, but on the seventh day there
shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to
the Lord; whosoever doeth work therein shall
be put to death.  Ye shall kindle no fire in
your habitations upon the Sabbath day."  And
we read in Numbers 15th chap., 32nd verse:
"And while the children of Israel were in the
wilderness they found a man that gathered
sticks upon the Sabbath day, and they that
found him gathering sticks brought him unto
Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congrega-
tion; and they put him in ward, because it was
not declared what should be done to him.  And
the Lord said unto Moses, the man shall surely
be put to death, all the congregation shall
stone him with stones without the camp. And
all the congregation brought him without the
camp and stoned him with stones, and he died,
as the Lord commanded Moses." More is said
in many other places, 31st chap of Exodus, in
the 13th verse, it says that it was a sign that ye
may know that I am the Lord that doth sanc-
tify you.  Leviticus 26th chap. and 15th verse
says: "And if ye will despise my statutes, or if
your soul abhor my judgment, so that ye will
not do all my commandments, but that ye
break my covenants: I also will do this unto
you: I will even appoint over you terror, con-
sumption, and the burning ague, that shall
consume your eyes and cause sorrow of heart:
and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your
enemies shall eat it.  And I will set my face
against you, and ye shall be slain before your
enemies."  Much more is said, and in other
places the Lord says if they do not repent He
will bring seven times more upon them until
through hunger they shall eat their own sons
and daughters, beasts carry off their children,
and cattle and pestilence, the sword, and fam-
ine would make their cities waste and deso-
late.  After speaking all this the 34th verse
says: "Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths
as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your
enemies' hand; even then shall the land rest,
and enjoy her Sabbaths.
	35th. "As long as it lieth desolate it shall
rest: because it did not rest on your Sabbaths
when ye dwelt upon it."
	Of course this was given to the children of
Israel, but if we read Isaiah lviii, 13, 14, we
find great promises are made to those who ob-
serve it: "And if thou turn away thy foot from
the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my
holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the
holy of the Lord honorable, thou shalt honor
Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding
thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own
words, then shalt thou delight thyself in the
Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the
high places of the earth, and feed thee with the
heritage of Jacob, thy father, for the mouth of
the Lord hath spoken it."  We also read in the
Doctrine and Covenants, 224th page, what has
been revealed in ths dispensation in regard to
the Sabbath day. "And that thou mayest keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacra-
ments upon my holy day.  For verily this is a
day appointed unto you to rest from your lab-
ors and pay thy devotions unto the Most
High."  In reading the rest of the chapter we
find something similar to the promise in Isaiah
"Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this the
fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the
field and the fowls of the air, and that which
climbeth upon the trees, and walketh upon the
earth."  Much more that is pleasing to the eye
and gladdening to the heart is promised. This
alone should induce our young people to keep
sacred the Sabbath day, for they all like this
world's riches; but it is better to do as our Sa-
vior said. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God,
and His righteousness, and then all these
things shall be added unto you."
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Spanish Fork, May 24th, 1884.


The philosophers as Varro tells us, counted
up three hundred and twenty answers to the
question, "What is the  supreme good?” How
needful,  then, is a divine revelation, to make
plain what is the true end of our being! Ty
ron Edwards.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor
Published semi-monthly, in Salth Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six month
$1.00; Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,  JUNE 1, 1884


TEMPLE DEDICATION

	The Dedication of the Logan Temple, which
took place May 17th, 1881, was one of the most
remarkable events that has transpired in the
history of the Church.  It is the grandest edi-
fice of its kind that has been erected in this dis-
pensation, and it is but natural to expect that
light, knowledge and intelligence from heaven
will be received in that house, dedicated by the
servants of God unto the Most High, with sol-
emn and impressive services.  Those who were
present on that sublime occasion and witnessed
the imposing ceremonies cannot but feel that it
was one of the grandest epochs of their lives.
Doubtless thousands of the Latter-day Saints
realized most emphatically that the Lord ac-
cepted the offering made to Him in the power of
the Holy Spirit manifested through His servants
on that memorable day.
	Services commenced at half past ten a.m,
President John Taylor presiding.  On his right
hand sat his First counselor, George Q. Cannon,
and on his left his Second Counselor, Joseph F.
Smith; President Wilford Woodruff and Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, of the Quorum of the Twelve,
also occupied seats on either side of the first
Presidency.  The different quorums of the
priesthood were all represented by the presiding
officers, according to their regular order.
	The Temple and everything pertaining to its
dedication has been graphically written up and
published in the several daily papers in this
city, and in Logan, Ogden and Provo papers, and
no doubt all our readers have already had the
opportunity of perusing all the details in print,
yet we cannot pass over this eventful circum-
stance without referring to the subject, as it im-
pressed the writer in a most forcible manner.
Never since the time when we witnessed the
remarkable, one might say marvelous occurance,
which transpired in Nauvoo at the time when
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph appeared so
plainly to fall upon Brigham Young, have we
seen any manifestation of divine acceptance so
distinctly clear as during the dedication services
in the Logan Temple.  A sensation as though
myriads of angels were in attendance and tak-
ing cognizance of that which transpired.
	The hymns sung at the dedication were writ-
ten expressly for that purpose, and the music
was home production.  The first hymn was
by Elder H. W. Naisbeet, commencing,
	"Come swell the grandly solemn strain
	Within these sacred walls to-day."
The dedicatory prayer was offered by President
Taylor, and was so complete and perfect that it
seemed to comprise everything on earth and in
heaven pertaining to the offering of the Temple
made to "Our Father" on that grandly suspicious
day for Israel.  After the prayer the choir sang
a hymn composed by Elder James A. Leish-
man.
	"In ages past, 'midst error dark,
	Our fathers lived and died."
	Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith and Apostles Wilford Woodruff and Lo-
renzo Snow addressed the congregation.  It was
a time of devout worship and precious enjoy-
ment of sacred things.
	President John Taylor made a few appropri-
ate closing remarks, and the assembly joined
him in repeated Hossannah's to God and the
Lamb, which thrillingly echoed through the
magnificent hall.
	The closing hymn, composed by Elder H. W.
Naiabitt, was rendered by the Logan choir in a
most rapturous style, as though they realized the
full force of the solemn yet joyous gathering.
The words are beautifully appropriate to the
theme.  We give the first verse:
	"Adown the ages that hath run,
	Like thread of gold in vesture rare,
	A memory fondest 'neath the sun,
	On history's page the one most fair!
	Man's greatest works beneath the skies,
	'Mid Salem's towers its glories rise."
	Sunday morning the dedicatory services were
repeated with a change of speakers, and again
on Monday, in order to admit as many as possi-
ble to partake of the blessings of worshiping
God in this hallowed place.
	On the second day during the exercises that
glorious hymn, composed by W. W. Phelps,
"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung, the congregation standing upon their feet
and joining in the singing.  The effect must
have been most soul-inspiring, for the hymn is
one no Latter day Saint can ever hear without
feeling stirred to the depths of his soul.  Even
apostates refer to this hymn as a recollection
which they can never quite blot out of mem-
ory.
	In going over the Logan Temple and viewing
it in all its grandeur from basement to towers,
and gazing from the highest points upon the
surrounding country with its peaceful vales be-
low, and stupendous mountain heights, our
thoughts and emotions were inadvertently
drawn out in adoration and praise, and the
grand, prophetic poem of W. W. Phelps kept
ringing and echoing through the mind.
	"The towers of Zion soon shall rise
	Above the clouds and reach the skies,
	Attract the gaze and wondering eyes
	Of all that worship gloriously."

	"Exalt the name of Zion's God,
	Praise ye His name in songs aloud;
	Proclaim His majesty abroad
	Ye banner-bearing messengers."
	The hymns of praise, the solemn prayer offer-
ing the house unto the Most High, the words of
the servants of God who officiated on that mem-
orable occasion, and the thrilling Hossannahs of
the multitude, must be vividly impressed upon
every one who has the spiritual and emotional
nature largely developed.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

The subject of marriage is one that as ever
engrossed considerable attention, an will
while man has an existence. Mormon marriage
being peculiar in many respects is at the pres-
ent time very extensively discussed, and the
sentiments of the women of the Church are
more or less inquired after;and while the elo-
quent orators of the day eleaf Mormonism as
a theme for public lectures and discources, and
the great statesmen of the Republic are mak-
ing laws to regulate marriage among the "Mor-
mons," it does seem apropros for women, as well


as men, who are the interested parties, to give
 their own opinions, in their own way, that the
world may understand the views they entertain
upon these matters.
	Love and marriage are two very important
features in life here upon the earth. A love-
less life is a sort of blank. A woman who has
never really known the tenderness of intensely
loving has scarcely arrived at the highest degree
of earthly happiness. When one has realized
the power of that true and constant love which
attracts one to the opposite sex, then the desire
of becoming united through the marriage cer-
mony naturally follows. No life is wholly com-
plete without marriage. No woman's life has
reached its fullest and highest realization until
she has attained to the climax of her existence
through a true marriage.
	The first commandment given was to multi-
ply and replenish the earth; it was given to men
and to woman, and is equally incumbent upon
each. Has woman the same opportunities to
carry into effect this command as man? By no
menas. The traditions and customs of modern
society are all against women, and in favor of
men, but without discussing these, as there are
so many points to be considered, we will only
say that God has revealed in this dispensation,
through His servant Jospeh Smith, a better way,
a higher order of marriage, whereby woman
may be lifted upon a higher plane, and have
greater opportunity for advancement than she 
could possibly have had, save in exceptional
instances, in the world. Already these things
are becoming apparent, and the sacrifices that
women necessarily make are only such as disci-
pline the character and elevate the soul.
	Through this principle of plural marriage
woman will eventually be redemed from the
curse placed upon her, and this is worth all the
sacrifices it is possible to make.
	There are many arguments in favor of a plu-
rality of wives, but to give them in detail would
take too much space; suffice it to say, those who
have undertaken to establish this principle have
not done so without an understanding of the
great blessing it would eventually be to all who
would be born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, and the practice is not optional with the
Latter-day Saints, but a command from God,
which they consider as binding upon them, and
they have received it with as sacred a feeling as
they went down into the waters of baptism. it 
is the sure path, that will lead to exaltation and
eternal lives; and to all who will live for it God
will give that testimony which will enable
them to comprehend how and why it is a saving
principle, and calculated to preserve and prolong
and increase life, and raise up a purer genera-
tion of people, with more of the spiritual and
higher nature, and even this one consideration,
were there no other, would be worth the great-
est efforts and best endeavors that mankind
could make.


NELLIE WHITE.
  Nellie White, the young lady recently sent to
the Penitentiary for refusing to answer ques-
tions asked her by the Grand Jury, is a very
pretty and amiable, as well as brave and deter-
mined, young woman, nineteen years of age; a
fine specimen of a Mormon girl, and zealously
devoted to the faith of the Church.  She has
been, for the past two years, engaged in teaching
instrumental music, but had just opened a school
in Wanship the day before she was supoened to
appear bafore the Grand Jury, It has been
stated that Miss White is not to be allowed the
privileges which were given to Belle Haris, of
receiving things from her friends to make her
prison life more endurable.  Whether this is ac-


cording to law we are not prepared to say, posi-
tively, but if it were right and proper in the
case of Belle Harris, and no one seemed to op-
pose it then on any legal ground it must be
right now; of course this restriction is only to
make her testify in the case, and this is what she
is not likely to do under any circumstances,
however trying.
	Miss White is a delicate, refined, sensative
girl, a great favorite with her friends, and the
way in which she is being treated will bring
down upon those concerned in the matter, the
indignation of the parties interested in her wel-
fare. As for maintaining the dignity of the law
it is rather straining a point, when modest,
well-behaved young girls are sent to prison
simply because they refuse to speak, while dis-
reputable women may have the most perfect
liberty and freedom.
	Miss White is undoubtedly at the present
time the victim of religious persecution, but her
own clear conscience and purity of heart are the
best safeguards and companions she can possibly
have. There is still law in the land, and men
who love justice are well acquainted with the
rights and privelages pertaining thereto. We
expect to see the law maintained in its supreme
dignity in this instance, and Nellie White set at
liberty. It may take a little time to accomplish
this, but we are not living in the days of the in-
quisition or the Salem witchcraft.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES

  THE EXPONENT of this issue ushers in the
new volume, and so many of the subscribers are
behind in their payments, we wish to remind
them, that they may come forward and pay up,
as everybody knows newspapers are not pub-
lished without money.  Now is a good time to
settle up all delinquencies, and also to subscribe
for the coming year.
  ON the 12th of May, as per appointment, the
officers of the Deseret Hospital Association met
in the Social Hall in this city, but as there were
not sufficient members to compose a meeting of
the association, the meeting was adjourned sine
die, or subject to the call of the President, H.
B. Clawson. Prest. Wilford Woodruff, of the
quorum of the Twelve Apostles, Prest. A. M.
Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presiden-
cy of this Stake of Zion, were present.  It is a
matter of regret that so little interest is taken
by the sisters generally in attending these an-
nual meetings.  We wish to remind the sisters
who became members of the Deseret Hospital
Association the first year that we have now
commenced upon the third year.  Many of the
members are deliquent in their payment of the
second year, and perhaps need reminding.  It is
an annual fee of one dollar per year.

  SISTER HANNAH T. KING of this city, well
and favorably known as a writer both in this
country and in England, has recently published
a new work.  It is an Epic Poem, being a syn-
opsis of the rise of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, his martyrdom--the
journey across the plains, and the arrival of the
Saints with Brigham Young at their head, on
the spot pronounced to be the site of the future
Salt Lake City.  The book was published at the
JUVENILE INSTRUCTOR Office, and is now for
sale at that office, also at the EXPONENT office;
at J. H. Parry's, Main Street, and at Mrs.
King's residence, Dernford House, 17th Ward.
  It is a poem that will speak forcibly to the
heart of every Latter-day Saint.  The book is
dedicated, by permission, to President John
Taylor.  The preface is specially characteristic


of the writer, who writes, as she often asserts,
"As the bird sings its song,"
  In the preface, which is very brief, she says,
"My heart and brain were wedded in the con-
ception of the enclosed poem, consequently it is
the pet of the union."


LETTER XI.

		DOWN THE RHINE.

 In my last I told you I would give you some-
thing of a description of my voyage down the
Rhine, the river of which we have read and
heard so much, and which seems to have such
a fascination for travelers.
  From Frankfort on the Main we went to May-
ence, stopping there only a short time, as we
were anxious to start down the Rhine. We
left Mayence early in the morning; the flags
were flying from every house, the soldiers were
out in full dress, the bands playing national
tunes, and everything looked gay and merry.
The boats on the river were all decked with
flags of different colors, and all the parading was
in honor of the Kaiser's birthday. It was a 
grand holiday throughout the empire.
  At last we were fairly embarked upon the
Rhine, that river of which tourists have talked
and written, and poets so long have sung, and
the beauty of which I would so delight to tell
you all, but what could my poor pen write after
Byron, Schiller, Lytton, and so many great au-
thors have so beautifully and graphically des-
cribed the castled banks and the blue waters of
this winding river.
  Almost from the first, after leaving the city
of Mayence behind, the banks began to grow
more beautiful; gentle sloping hills covered with
vineyards, where the women and children were
working and tying up the vines; all this seemed
so picturesque and romantic, I could not but ap-
preciate the poetry written of this land of the
grape and vine.
 At each villiage we were greeted by the firing
of cannons; occasionally we saw crowds of peo
ple wending their way up the hilside, going to
the forests behind, with baskets of picnic, and
all dressed in their holiday costumes. I cannot
begin to tell the pleasure I felt as one after an-
other of the grand old castles, the pretty villages
and the rocky cliffs presented themselves to our
view, then faded from sight, only to give place
to another scene still grander and lovelier than
before. Towards mid-day we reached the pret-
ty little village of Bingen, so celebrated in song,
and I thought of the  beautiful lines of Mrs.
Caroline Norton, you, my dear mother, taught
me when I was a child. I saw the picture here
of the 'Soldier of the Legion' and his fair love
standing hand in hand on the hillside gazing at
the beauty of the scene around, and their souls
filled with love; I almost thought I saw them
there, and that I heard the words,

"Tell her I dreamed I stood with her, and saw the yellow
	sunlight shine
On the vine-clad hills of Bingen, dear Bingen on the
	Rhine;
I saw the blue Rhine sweep along, I heard, or seemed to
	hear,
The German songs we used to sing, in accents low and
	clear;
And down the flowing river, and up the slanting hill
The echoing chorus sounded, in the evening calm and
	still,
And her little hand lay lightly, confidingly in mine,
But we'll meet no more at Bingen, loved Bingen on the
	Rhine."
How much sweeter these words are to me now,
before I only heard them, now I feel them
   Just beyond this village, on a little island, [---] a
grim old tower, called the Mouse Tower, about
which there is a story that a cruel Arch-
bishop caused a number of people, whom he
compared to mice devouring corn, in a time of
famine, to be burned alive in a barn;immediate-
ly afterwards he was annoyed by mice, and he
sought refuge on this island;his little persecu-
tors followed him there, however, and devoured 
him. We sailed down the river, greatly charmed
all the way. First on one side would rise an im-
posing ruin, then on the other a magnificent
castle, each with a long, interesting story, or a
sad legend.  On the left we saw a high, and
seemingly inaccessible, castle, where,  we are
told, robbers had made a home and hidden their
treasures, and just as the mind begins to fancy
the underground passages and the mysterious
haunts of this place we turn to the right and
see the two castles of Liebenstein and Sterrenfels
or "The Brothers," standing calmly before us,
and the pretty legend of these we cannot pass
by, though other interesting sights may be
missed. Here in Liebenstein lived an aged man
with two sons and an adopted daughter, both
sons loved their foster-sister and wanted to wed
her, but she favored the younger brother. The
other, disappointed in his love, joined the Crusa-
ders, and in foreign lands won honor and renown.
The father then built the castle of Sterrenfels
for the younger son and his bride, but the mar-
riage was postponed; the love of the younger
brother cooled, and hearing of his brother's suc-
cess and glory, he longed, also, to leave home
and join the Crusaders.
 Not long after his departure the father died,
and Hildegarde, for such was the foster daugh-
ter's name, lived alone in Liebenstein, mourn-
ing over her loneliness, and longing for the re-
turn of her lover, whose faith she never doubt-
ed. But one day he returned to the Sterrenfels,
bringing with him a fair Grecian bride. Hilde-
garde lived in the other castle in seclusion,
when one night a stranger knight demanded the
hospitality of the castle; this one proved to be
the other brother, who, hearing of his brother's
faithlessness, came home resolved to avenge his
sister's wrongs.
 The following morning he challenged his
brother to a deadly combat, but before their
swords were crossed Hildegarde interfered and
begged the brothers to be friends. She then re-
tired to a convent, which is situated just below
the castles. The brothers separated, each to his
own castle, and lived wholly apart from each
other, until the younger, deserted by his Greek
wife, threw himself at his brother's mercy, beg-
ging forgiveness, insisting that his friendship
alone could make him happy. So the brothers
lived the remainder of their lives in Liebenstein.
The castles afterwards were purchased by the
government, but now they are only ruins, with
this little legend attached to make them still
more interesting.
  We passed, of course, the Lorelle. but heard
no echo, only saw the great high cliffs and rug-
ged rocks. I cannot mention half we saw, nor
begin to tell by letter how charmed I was with
it all, but I thought, O, so many times, how
mother would enjoy this, and how I wish she
could see it all. Just before dark we neared the
part of the river, where on the high banks are
the Draehenfels, and so long as we could see, for
darkness came upon us, and the lights of Co-
logne shone out in the distance,these peaks were
visible, and the last thoughts on  the Rhine
were of  Byron's beautiful lines,
	"The castled crag of Draehenfels
	    Frowns o'er the wide and winding Rhine;
	Whose breast of water broadly swells
	    Between the tanks which bear the vine;
	And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	    And fields which promise corn and wine,
	And scattered cities crowning these,
	    Whose far white walls along them shine."

It was night and we had reached ous destina-


tion, the Ci y of Cologne, where we spent a
couple of days most pleasantly, but I fear I shall
tire you with a long letter; later I will tell you
more of our journey, which has been to delight-
ful and charming to me that I know you will
also be interested in it.
Your affecionate daughter,
ANNIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A DREAM.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	The enclosed copy of a dream is received in
response to a request of mine, after hearing it
related.
	Although not much of a dreamer, and being
rather subject to attribute less importance to
dreams than many others, I was much interest-
ed in the one in question, and solicited a copy
for publication in the EXPONENT. Of course
you will act your pleasure in regard to it.
	Lovingly,
	E. R. S. S.

MRS. ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH:
	Dear sister, in accordance with my promise
made you yesterday, in Logan, I write you a
brief statement of a dream I had a few years
ago, which refers to a principle of great import-
ance to the Latter-day Saints.
	I dreamed I had passed away from this pro-
bation and was in the spirit world, and had been
assigned my duties, As I passed to and fro
among the people, I met an old acquaintance
whom I had known in England, when I first
embraced the Gospel. I went up to him and
said, Well, you have got here? He said, Yes—
to find ou that I have missed the prize I sought.
I knew the Gospel as true, and know it now;
but I stayed in England when I should have
emigrated to Zion, and thus failed to receive my
blessing, and I have sinned against the laws of
God, and must remain a prisoner here for many
years, till I have paid the penalty of my sins be-
fore I can leave this place, and he left me in
great sorrow. A short time afterwards I met
the bishop of the ward where I had lived when
on the earth. I was pleased to meet him, and
shook hands with him, very warmly, and con-
gratulated him that he had finished his work on
the ear[-]h. I told him we would have a good
time together as the labor was very pleasant and
agreeable. He said, I am going to stay here but
a very short time, and then I pass to my rest
I looked at him for a moment with peculiar
feeling, caused by his words, and asked him,
When shall I pass to my rest? I knew I had
kept the faith and been true to my covenants
when on the earth, he made answer, When you
have done the work that I have done, or if un-
able to do so, others do it for you; then you will
pass to your rest, but not till then	W
	The bishop was a practiced polygamist, and as
I awoke immediately after he had spoken, his
work was before my mind, and it was impress-
ed upon my whole being by a power I could not
resist, that unless I performed the same work
and obeyed the celestial law of marriage, I
would never obtain the rest I so much desired.
I accepted the dream as the word of the Lord to
me, indirectly, and I have sought from that
time to serve God, and keep His command-
ments and would advise all who desire the rest
of a Latter-day Saint to seek it through obedi-
ence to the full l[-]w of the Gospel, or they will
be sadly disappointed hereafter. With great re-
spect I remain,
	Your brother in the Gospel,
May 18th, 1884


Parlor feasts extinguish kitchen fires.---Pro-
verb.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Thursday morning Sisters Ellen C. Clawson
and Lydia. Ann Wells went to Big Cottonwood
to attend the meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of that place; in consequence of the resig-
nasion of the president, Mrs. Esther Davis, a
reorganization was necessary, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson officiated in organizing, and Mrs.
Ellen Sutherland was appointed President;
Mary Ann Brockbank and Mary Quist, Coun-
selors; S. A. Casto and Milo Andrews, Jr.,
made some encouraging remarks. Sisters E.
C. Clawson, E. Howard, and L. A. Wells and
other sisters, addressed the meeting. The aver-
age attendance at this Primary is sixty.
	In the afternoon Sisters Clawson and Dr. E.
B. Ferguson visited the Tenth Ward Primary
it being their annual meeting day. There were
quite a number of the sisters present; the exer-
cises were very good and remarks were made by
Sisters Clawson and Ferguson. Benediction
by Counselor James Woods.
	On Friday Sisters Ellen C. Clawson and
Lydia Ann Wells attended the annual meeting.
at Mill Creek. The four districts meet yearly
and two of them occupy the forenoon and two
the afternoon. Sister Mary Ann Birch presid-
ed in the morning, and Sister Ann Lemon in
the afternoon. Bishop Hamilton was present
and addressed the children; remarks were also
made by Sisters E. O. Clawson, E. Howard
and L. A. Wells. The children acquitted
themselves very well. Dinner was served in
the vestry and all passed off pleasantly. Some
changes were made in the organizations.
	Annual Primary Meeting of the 20th Ward,
city, April 24, opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor M. E. Dunbar, singing, minutes
read and adopted also yearly report, which was
very creditable.
 The first exercise was an essay by Isabel
Salmon, subject, “The Primary Recitation.
Alice Evans, "A Wish;” Master Fred Daynes,
“A Farmer's Boy;” Mary Romney, song; Reci-
tation by six members, "This World is not so
Bad:" Selina Pusey, "Earnestness;" Dialogue
Pearl Cahoon, Rosie Romney, Annie Sharp,
Emily Clowes; Song, "Murmuring Sea," Alice,
Savage; Recitation, "Mamma tell a Story,"
Master Joseph Daynes; Organ Solo; Chapter of
Bible Questions answered by the children;
Nellie Lyons. recitation; Dialogue by five mem-
bers, "Self-denial;” Susie Ellis, song, "Let us
treat each other kindly," chorus by the child-
ren; Emily Sharp, essay, “The Primary;" Mas-
ter Albert Romney," recitation, “The Blind
Boy;" Hannah Livingston, recitation, "The,
Lost Child; Emma Lyon, organ solo; Lettie
and Maud Potter, recitation Josie Simmons,
reading; Kate Sansom, recitation; Dialogue by
two members, Home-manufacture; Maggie
Salmon, recitation; Dellie Daynes, song; Reci-
tation by six members, “Trust; the Children;”
Maude Lewis, reading; Alice Reynolds, recita- 
tion; Irene Daynes song. One or two other
recitations, the names we did not learn, Song,
Belle May and Maggie Cahoon.
	After the programme was completed Miss
Isabella Salmon with a few appropriate words
presented the President with a purse of money,
as a triflng testimonial of the love and kind
feeling of the children and parents. Sister
Toone was almost overpowered by this dem-
onstration of love and appreciation.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Claw-
son. P. L. Kimball and Louie Felt, Brothers
Dunbar, Savage, Romney, Lewis and Salmon;
also Sisters E. B. Wells, E. B. Ferguson and.
Jane Miller.
	Meeting adjourned for one year, prayer by
T. B. Lewis. Refreshments were then served
to all in the house.
	In the evening there was a very happy so-
cial gathering with songs, recitations and
music.					E. B. W.


FORGIVENESS

	The Savior while on earth taught His disci-
ples to pray thus; Forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those whose who trespass against us,
showing that they must forgive in order to be
forgiven. That they must pardon the faults of
others if they wished to be pardoned. They
must be willing to do unto others as they wish
to be done by.
	Again He says: If thy brother smite thee on
the right cheek turn to him the other, showing
plainly the spirit of forgiveness, and teaching
us that it is wrong to hold hard feelings with
another; that it is our duty to forgive if we are
the inuured person. That it is very wrong to
hold malice. That we should be quick to for-
give, as we hope to be forgiven. How very dis-
tressing it is to see friends, and perhaps rela-
tives, disagree on some small matter, and go
for days or months, and sometimes years, and
never speak to each other, and all the time hold-
ing the worst kind of feelings, even going so
far as to back bite and speak falsely with no-
thing but a difference of opinion for the cause;
each thinking that they are the injured one,
cherishing the bitterest kind of sentiment and
being willing to hear and believe anything that
is detrimental and injurious. How very differ-
ent from the example taught us by the Savior.
He who had  most cause of all to have hard
feelings towards His fellow men. He who was
subject to the grossest of insults, and endured
the most excruciating pain, taught us to for-
give all and hold malice against none. And
He who endured so much could do this? Sure-
ly we ought to over look the faults of others, as
we wish to have ours pardoned. To be able to
forgive an injury shows a strength of character
that is noble and god-like, and will cause much
joy and happiness; while to harbor this feeling
of hate and jealousy will bring nothing but
disconent and misery.
	To live and enjoy the society of those around
us, to pass through life and gain the love and
respect of our associates, and have the approba-
tion of our Heavenly Father, is joy indeed.
Then let us show by our lives, we will follow
the example of our Savior, and overcome all
that is evil.	M.A. CAZIER.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal
Nephi, Utah.


R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	REPORTS.

	MONTPELIER.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the Relief Socie-
ty meeting, held at Montpelier, March 2nd,
1884, President J. P. Lindsay, presiding.
Singing. Prayer by Bishop Samuel Matthews.
Singing. Minutes of the previous two days
meeting read and approved.
	Remarks were made by President Lindsay
on various subjects calculated to inspire the
sisters with a desire to improve in all good
works and encourage them in the path of duty.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, and also urged
the sisters to take good care of their bodies,
and to set a good example for their children to 
follow.
	Counselor S. T. Holmes said, we all have
talents, and if we do not make use of them we 
will be held accountable for the same. Spoke
about storing grains.
	Bro. Franklin said that President Young
had called upon the brethren many times to 
store grain, but when he found they had not 
followed out his instructions, only in exeption-
al instances, he called upon the sisters. When
the grain is stored up it is stored up unto the
Lord, and when the time comes He will tell us 
what to do with it. A great many people will
come to Zion to be fed and it matters not.
It is our duty to do as we are told, and leave


the result in the hands of the Lord.  It is right
to teach our children to ask the blessing on the
food, and also take their part in family prayer,
and prepare themselves for baptism when they
are eight years old.  The signs of the times
give us to understand that the end is near at
hand.  Desired to do a work in the temple for
his relatives.
	Prest. A. Laker felt that we were in a school.
The Lord has promised us light if we ask for
it.  We want to teach our children the works
of our Savior.  We can wield a great influ-
ence over our children, then how great our res-
ponsibility.  We are surrounded by tempta-
tions, but we must live above them.
 Sister Jnlia Budge said, we may receive
great blessings if we will live for them.  Bore
a faithful testimony to the work of God.
 Prest. N. M. Pugmire thought if we carried
out the instructions received, we would be a
better people than we are to-day.  It was her
desire to do as near right as possible; had
many reflections while listening to the sisters,
and thought that they were noble women.
Wondered if the girls thought of the many
duties resting upon their mothers, and if they
help them whenever the can.  Gave the girls
some good instructions on the choice of a hus-
band.
 Coun. A. Cook said, it is wrong to speak
lightly of the principles of the Gospel; if we
connot understand them we must not use our
influence against them.  We must be careful
whom we keep company with.
 Singing. Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.
Benediction by Bishop Samuel Mathews.
2 p.m.  Meeting opened with singing, prayer
by Bishop H. H. Dalrymple.  Singing.  The
sacrament was then administered, after which
Prest. P. Hogenson bore testimony to the work;
was the only one of a large family that had
embraced the truth, and knew there was a
great work devolving upon her.
 Prest. VanNorman felt well in this great
work. Reported the society in Bennington as
being in a good condition, and made other re-
marks.
 Sister A. Austin thought the society in Lib-
erty was in good condition, and the sisters were
trying to do right.
 Sister Sivins said it was no use to shrink
from our duties if we desired the blessings of
our Heavenly Father.
 Prest. M. Carlson spoke very encouragingly
of the sisters of Ovid.  Spoke of the storing of
grain and said that one bushel of wheat in
time of need would save many lives.
 Prest. M. A. Shepherd desired that the Lord
would qualify her for the position she occupied,
that the object desired by the organization
might be realized.  Bore her testimony to the
truth of the work.
	Miss Julia Budge said she desired to do
whatever was required of her, or she would
never attempt to speak from the stand.  Hoped
that she would prove faithful to her duties.
 Bishop Mathews exhorted the Saints to at-
tend to their prayers, or they would lose the
Spirit of the Lord.  Said many other good
things.
	Bishop H. H. Dalrymple said, the people
of the world thought that the women of this
Church were in bondage, and that by giving
them power they would turn against their hus-
bands, but instead of this they cast a solid vote
for the Kingdom of God.  The sisters who
have spoken to us have had a long experience
in the work, and are very particular what they
teach the people.
	Bishop A. R. Wright said, we must do
whatever is required of us, as it takes a great
deal of moral courage to stand in this Church,
and our integrity will be tried.  Thought that
the ladies had a great deal more influence than
most men would like to give them credit for,

and they should be well educated, and obtain
correct information upon points of doctrine.
Sister Pugmire said, we realize the hand of
the Lord has ever been over us for good.  Let
us aid one another, be kind to the afflicted
and cast down.
	Prest. Lindsay made a few closing remarks,
in which she thanked the people of Montpelrer
for their kind and courteous manner during
the meetings.  If she had power to lift her
voice to the ends of the earth she would show
the world we are not the down-trodden people
we are represented to be. Exhorted all to
stand firm, even unto the end.
	Singing.  Benediction by Elder Thomas
Sleight.
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary
				_____
		WOODRUFF, ARIZONA
	I believe we are doing as well as we can in
our Relief Society in this far off land, under
our circumstances.  We were organized one
year ago last January.  Our members number
about twenty, and most of them take a lively
interest in doing all they can.  We have our
testimony meetings once a month, and working
meetings once a month also.  We appreciate
our meetings very much, and feel that they are
a great blessing to us.  The Lord has given us
a commandment to meet together often that we
may be instructed in the truths of His Gospel.
It seems that there is a great deal for the sisters
to do; there is a great responsibility resting up-
on the mothers of Israel to raise their children
in the fear of the Lord.  I feel that we cannot
live too humble and near to God; if we keep
all His laws and commandments and go in
faith, asking Him for such blessings as we
need, even asking for wisdom, we shall re-
ceive.
The EXPONENT is such a valuable and
strengthening paper, and I value it very high-
ly, I don't know how I could do without it, I
take so much pleasure in reading its columns.
My prayer is that God who knows all things
will bless our desires to do good everywhere.
CATHERINE HATCH,
President.

SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA
EDITOR EXPONENT;
I would like to tell you a little how our so-
ciety is getting along, but I fear I am trespas-
sing upon your time, which I know is precious.
I will just say that the sisters are doing well,
and are united.  We are just now out of debt,
having built us a good sawn log house, which
has been [--]r two years past the only meeting
house w[-] [--]ve had.  We are working now to pay
a fifty [---]r donation on our new brick meet-
ing [---]. Our Bishop has counselled us to
fen[--] [---]r let this spring, which we have taken
a vo[-] to try to do.  Just as soon as we can
we want our names upon the books as donors
to the Deseret Hospital, we would rejoice if you
could make us a visit.
Your sister,
MARY J. K. WEST.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


<mk: "="" f00="" -="" :j="" om,1,u="" !="" oj="" km="" 710'i',;v="" j:)="" i'w="" thoy..="" ,ja="" jlwi...ap="" ermaryi="" agspqiption="" of="" .ina="" place="" united="" in="" getting="" up="" a="" programme="" or="" .the="" celehration="" mayday="" pavjucb,="" in-order="" motfei="" interfere?.ithuhreddayn$et-="" ztn="" nr.yri;?!:="" ?yc="" (h="" uc-="" jng="" rwftpned="" rtuiexequted;="" ty#k<5hisv©d="" —="" ammnn,fn="" an="" nf="" pleasure="" nntjriijgef<="" div="">MAY-DAY FESTIVITIES.

ST. JOHNS, Arizona.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Y.L.M.I.A. and Primary Association 
of this place united in getting up a programme
for the celebration of May-day which, in order 
not to interfere with the regular fast day meet-
ings, was celebrated on Friday the twelfth ult.
The affair proved a complete success, as we 
had no doubt it would, the arrangements be-
ing planned and executed by the ladies and 
afforded our community a day of real pleasure
and enjoyment, thanks to the untiring ef-


forts and indefatigable labors of Sister M. E.
Freeman, President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, together with officers of the Primary
and some of the sisters who kindly assisted in
teaching the children their different exercises.
	The only diaagreeable feature of the day
was the unpropitious weather, which was more
like December than May, raining nearly all
day, making it quite muddy, but in spite of
the weather the assembly room was filled till 
there was scarcely standing room left. At half
past nine the assembly was called to order,
and after the usual exercises the Young Ladies
and Primaries each crowned their queen with 
their customary ceremony; following which
were songs, recitations, etc., each of which are
deserving of special mention, but I feel that
it would not be just to encroach too much on
your limited space.
	I must however mention the "Address to
Parents," delivered by Sister Amanda Dana,
in behalf of the Primary, and the representa-
tion of the Young Ladies through their manu-
script paper, "The Advocate," edited by Sister
Ella Udall, and read by Miss Ida Hunt; it was
excellent, and displayed much literary ability
on the part of editor and contributors, and is a
great credit to the association.
	The whole affair, without one exception,
passed off very pleasantly, the little ones win-
ning desereved applause. The exercises were
all performed by members of the two associa-
tions, with the exception of an address by Bish-
op D. K. Udall and singing by the choir.
	Owing to our backward spring, nature failed
to supply a single offering in the shape of flor-
al decorations necessary for such an occasion,
consequently the deficiency had to be supplied
by artificial means, which was done by the
young ladies uniting their efforts and making
artificial cloth and paper flower ; these, with
pine and cedar boughs, made b [--]tiful bou-
quets and festooning.
	At the close of the exercises a free and easy 
picnic was in order until two o'clock, when the
little folks met to enjoy themselves in the
dance. During the afternoon those present
witnessed a pretty sight, the braiding of the
"May pole" by a number of little girls dressed
in white.
	The festivities of the day closed with a 
grand leap year ball in the evening given by
and for the benefit of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, which all agreed was one of the most
enjoyable parties ever held in St. Johns; good
order and a universal feeling of sociability 
prevailed, and all enjoyed themselves.
	ONE WHO KNOWS.


A PLEASANT GATHERING
A surprise party inn honor of the thirty-
eighth anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Ballard, President of the Second
Ward Relief Society, Logan, Cache Co., was
given April 14th, at her residence.  She was
also presented with an elegant album and a
pair of vases, in behalf of the teachers of the
Relief Society.  Sister Ballard in terms of
gratitude expressed her heartfelt thanks and
appreciation for the honor and esteem which
the sisters entertained for her:  Then followed
songs, recitations and speeches, all of which
were appropriate for the occasion, and a very
enjoyable time was spent which will be long
remembered by all.
				EMELINE E. JAMES
May 9th, 1884.


Be fit for more than the thing you are doing.
If you are not too large for the place, you are
too small for it- Garfield.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD FOLKS ANNUAL PARTY.
			--------------
		 BLOOMINGTON.
			--------------
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our annual party for the aged of our settle-
ment on January 31st of the present year, at which up-
wards of a hundred persons sat down to dinner; it was
a very enjoyable affair.  After which in regular order
the following programme was carried out: Song, "We
thank thee, O God, for a Prophet," prayer by Bro. P.
Greenbalgh, singing, "O my Father," Opening address
by President J. H. Hart, in which he expressed his pleas-
ure at meeting with us, and also gave some excellent
instructions.  Bishop Wm. Hulme expressed his desire
to have a roll and minutes read at the next meeting.
Song, Sister Mary Roberts: address, Sister A. Womsley:
dance, Father Nelson: song, Bro. and Sister Greenbalgh
and Jarvis; recitation, "Bread upon the Waters," Sister
L. M. Hart; dancing; address, Father Nelson; Danish
song, Bro. Holtz; speech, Bro. Quinton; song "You've
been a friend to me," J. Haddock; song, Sister Roberts.
address, Prest. S. Greenbalgh; song, "Hard times come
again no more," Bro. and Sister Jarvis, song, "The
man behind the plow," J. H. Hart; speech, Sister C.
Long; Negro song, Bishop Hulme; song, Father Patter-
son; speech, Sister M. Roberts; song, "The bobbin-wind-
er," Bro. P. Greenbalgh; song, "The old Wooden Rock
er," Misses Mary and Adelia Greenhalgh.  Singing
benediction by Prest. Hart.
	Dancing was interspersed throughout the programme,
which was in two parts, refreshments being served at
the intermission.  A good spirit prevailed, and all
seemed to enjoy the entertainment.  We have plenty of
snow on the ground, but the weather is mild.
	Wishing your valuable paper success, I beg leave to
subscribe myself, your sister in the Gosepl,
				SARAH GREENBALUGH, President.
				E. C. PIGGOTT, Secretary.


A SURPRISE PARTY.!

On the 29th of April the Y. L. M. I. A. of Minersville
gave a surprise party in honor of their president, Sister
Lydia Blackburn.  The Association, with a few elderly
people, met at the Relief Society house at six o'clock.
After the tables were spread and everything put in or-
der, the president was informed that her presence was
required at the R. S. house, her surprise when entering
the house where some fifty or sixty people were gath-
ered was very great.  A nice dress pattern was then
presented to her by the association.  After supper James
H. Rollins was elected chairman, and the remainder of
the evening was spent in a very enjoyable way, by sing-
ing, recitations, speeches, etc
	Bishop James Mc.Knight and Counselor George Eyre
made some very interesting remarks, also President Ly-
dia Blackburn expressed her gratitude for the honor
shown her on the occasion.  It was then motioned that
the minutes of the proceedings be sent to the Exponent
for publication.  The company broke up at twelve
o’clock, feeling that the time had been well spent.
IDA  MARSHAL,
HELEN STODDARD,
IDA HAMBLIN,
 Committee of arrangements.
		H.S.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with a feeling of regret that I write to acquaint
the readers of your valuable paper of the sudden death
of our young sister, Jennie Bush.  She died on the 17th
of March, after only a few hours sickness, of congestion
of the brain.  She was young, being only twenty-three
years old, and what seems more sad, was on the eve of
giving birth to her first born babe.  Much sympathy is
felt for her husband.  Bro. John P. Bush, in this two-fold
bereavement, and lady's mother and relatives in
Beaver.
	Deceased came into our midst about one year and a
half ago a comparative stranger.  During the most of
this time she has been occupied in teaching the public
school, in which she did a good work.  By her kindness
and intelligence she gained many friends, and was in-
deed a useful member of our community.  Her loss
will be felt by all.  She was reverently carried from her
own home to the meeting house, where the services were


held, by eight pall bearers, members of her school, and
followed by her immediate friends  and all the school
children.  It was a solemn and impressive sight; all
those little children whom she had taught to love her
by her kindness following her with grief stricken hearts
and faces to her last reseting place.
	The audience was addressed with comforting words by
Bros. Briggs and Pomeroy, also by Prest. J. F. Mac
Donald.  Forty-four vehicles and about four hundred
people followed the remains of our sister to the cem-
etery, where she was laid to rest, to await the resurrec-
tion of the just.
			Yours, very respectfully.
					JANE A. MACDONALD.
					_______
	DIED, at Midway,"Wasatch Co., Utah, March 11, 1884,
Sister Harriet Watkins.  She was the daughter of John
Steele and Mary Woods Steele, and was born December
5th, 1841, at Harley, Staffordshire, England.  She has
been the mother of 18 children, 9 of whom are living,
one a babe three hours old; her death was very sudden,
which cast a feeling of gloom over the entire ward.  She
died as she had lived, beloved and respected by all who
knew her.  She was a devoted wife and a loving moth-
er, was a member of the Relief Society, and our treasur-
er for many years- Always faithful in the performance
of every duty.
	Rest in peace, dear sister, until the resurrection of the
just,when you'll again meet husband, children and
friends, never more to be separated.
							MARY BRONSON.
Midway, May 13,1831.


Sarcasm is the natural language of the dev-
il.—Carlyle,

	Our prayers and God's mercy are like two
buckets in a well; while one ascends the other 
descends.—Bishop Hopkins.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a 
good house to stop at by stranger visiting our 
city, as also by our people from the settlements, 
that we take pleasure in recommending the 
"Spencer House" as thorougly respectable, 
clean and pleasant.  The table has long borne 
the reputation of not being excelled; the 
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in 
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and 
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a 
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are 
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, - 25c. per copy 
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, - $1.00 
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE 
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON 
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D. 
	OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth 
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence 

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street. 

[Drawing of building with ALL PAPER DINWOODEY FURNITURE UPHOLSTERY MD WOODEY'S FURNITURE written on the outside part of the building]

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER, 
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS 
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Giant F on left side]
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.


__________________________________________________________________________

					     W O M A N ' S      E X P O N E N T .
__________________________________________________________________________

	  The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 13. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1884. No. 2.


TRUST IN GOD
O God above in whom I trust
	And worship day by day
Incline thine ear and hear my woe-
	Thou art my only stay;
For friends, though counted by the score,
	Are few when sorrows come,
And though they dwell anear my door,
	As well a thousand miles from home.

"So near, and yet so far!" I've heard it oft,
	But never realized before
The truth of it, but now I know
	The deep, full meaning of the term,
O Father!  Thou whom I adore,
	And in my weak and humble way
Desire to learn to know Thee well,
	Desire to live but to obey.

They "still small voice" still speaks to me,
	And bids me in the darkest hour
Call unto Thee in Jesus name
	For comfort, and Thou hast the power
To cheer and comfort on the way
	The weary, wounded, breaking heart,
But not to take the thorns away,
	For each must bravely bear his part.

They *servant to Thy Saints hath said,
	Call on the Lord with faith in prayer;
When in thy secret closet kneel,
	Ask of thy God thy heart's desire.
Oh precious promise!  priceless boon!
	To ask of God, and He will hear.
And hearing answer to our call;
	He seems so far, and yet is near.

"Nearer, my God, to Thee," I cry,
	Nearer to Thy throne I come;
Thinner the veil that hides from me
	The glories of my futnre home;
But ere I leave this mortal sphere
	My earthly task I would complete;
Oh! give me strength, and grace, and power
	To lay my faults beneath my feet.

When foes without, and foes within
	Combine, They people to enslave,
The weakness of the flesh would cry,
	Oh, give us rest within the grave!
O Father, heal our bleeding hearts,
	Help us to praise Thee while we've breath,
Help us to nobly bear our part,
	Oh, give us liberty, or death!

Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done,
	Oh! give me strength and grace to say,
As said Thy well beloved Son,
	Upon that sad and solemn day,
When weak as other mortals are,
	In deepest anguish cried to thee,
If possible, the bitter cup,
	O Father! let it pass from me.

And though He plead in angnish sore,
	And could "command a heavenly host,"
And though He bled at every pore
	God's Son could not desert His post;
Then meekly bowed His head in prayer,
	Drank of the cup with faith divine,
Crying, they know not what they do;
	Father, forgive!  Thy will not mine.

Can we, the children of our God,
	The brothers, sisters of His son,
Do less than give our lives to Him?
	Eternal lives we then have won.
There is no "Royal road to heacen;"
	The same rough road our Brother trod
We all must tread.  No pattern's given
	Save Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
									RUTH.

June 1st, 1884.
*President W. Woodruff


ANOTHER WORD TO THE GIRLS

	The Pioche Record in commenting on the
marriage of one of our young sisters to an out-
sider, the son of an apostate Mormon, says,
"Another budding flower has been snatched
from the tentacles of the Mormon Church and
thus saved from polygamy and vice," etc. This
exulting boast of Satan gives me many serious
reflections. Truly, as President Taylor has
said, the adversary is abroad like a roaring
lion seeking to lead the children of men astray,
and this languare of the Record is only a
vaunting boast of his of a victory he
thinks he has gained, and means, in language
interpreted, one more spirit snatched from the
road that leads to eternal life, and saved from
enjoying God's promised blessings.
	Oh! what a stab this must be to the heart
of the family of this poor misguided girl, to
hear this exulting cry of Satan hurled into
their face, for they, as well as all other Latter-
day Saints, know that 'twere better, a thousand
times better, that death enter their door and
rob their household of its treasure, than that
they should be led away into the broad road
by that evil one, who is the master of lies. Thus
it has ever been since the warfare in heaven,
when he, who is now king of evil, sought for
supremacy there, and was with his followers
cast out of the presence of our Father to con-
tinue that warfare on the earth, where the more
faithful spirits have their eyes veiled with mor-
tality, that he has sought to draw after him
those spirits who, through their faithfulness,
earned the privilege of inhabiting a body on
the earth.
	When the Lord revealed His Gospel to
Joseph Smith and began to establish His
Church, then did Satan redouble his force, de-
termined not to yield the fight until every
trial had been made that it were possible for
him to make, and every advantage he can gain
on the battle ground, which is the hearts and
minds of the children of God, he will not fail
to seize upon. Then how necessary that we
who are engaged in this great and arduous
struggle against Satan, should array ourselves
in our battle garb, the Spirit of God, and lis-
ten and obey the voice of our commanders in
the field, the voice of revelation, for unless we
do this we are left to the mercy of the enemy,
as soldiers engaged in mortal combat, who
have left their commanders and thrown off
their armor and cast away their weapons, we
have no alternative but to yield to the enemy
and be bound with his chains and led away by
him into captivity, which is endless torment.
How can the Latter-day Saints excuse them-
selves who have neglected their duty in failing
to use their utmost endeavors by prayer, teach-
ing and examples to assist their children to
clothe themselves with the Spirit of God as a
protection against the adversary, and if the
children of the Latter-day Saints could realize
the price they have to pay for the pottage of
this world, no desire of Satan could tempt them
to sacrifice their rights in the Kingdom for it.
It is a grievous thing to see our young girls
led away and unite themselves in marriage
with those who are not of us. To the faithful
and God-fearing parent the death of their child
would be pleasant compared with it, for what
is death, the throwing off this mortality com-
pared with the loss of eternal life? Note the
condition in after life of the woman who casts
aside her rights to the ordinances of the priest-
 [second column]
hood, and marries only after the manner of the
world. She may, perhaps, though it is not of-
ten the case with such, be fortunate enough to
secure a husband who will care for her happi-
ness, and she may enjoy every comfort the
world affords, but when the time comes, and it
will surely come, when she realizes that to be
permitted to continue in the marriage relation,
and have an eternal increase in the Kingdom
of God is eternal life, and finds, when summon-
ed before her Father to receive her reward
for her labors on the earth, that her name is
not recorded in the great book of marriages,
and therefore she has no claim upon that bless-
ing, then, and not fully till then will she real-
ize what she has lost.
	We have heard a great deal said about the
misery the Latter-day Saints have to endure
in polygamy. Now, it is not necessary that
women should have aught but happiness in this
order, but how enviable is the position in after
life of the woman who may be even the tenth
wife of a man, and through mistakes of hers.
or his, or both, she has been obliged to spend
her earthly life in abject misery, but has stood
firm in the faith through it all, compared with
that of the woman who has not been sealed un-
to an eternal marriage. The former has her
rights and blessings recorded in the heavens,
and when she is prepared to receive them our
Father will gladly reward them to her, and she
will continue in rearing posterity in the eter-
nal worlds, while the latter must remain alone
throughout eternity, and cannot enjoy these
blessings.
	Then why should not parents grieve when
they see their children deny themselves these
blessings, and how necessary that they should
watch for and guard off every scheme of the
evil one to prevent them from acquiring them,
and further, with what earnestness should they
endeavor to carry out every principle of the
Gospel and heed every word of God given
through His servants, that they may be able
to throw a net work of righteousness around
their children in their tender years, that they
may not be enticed from the fold and forsake
their true Shepherd.				M.


NOTES AND NEWS.
In the Salem, Mass., Normal School-there is
class of girls learning carpentry.

	Helen M. Gougar addressed both branches
of the New York Legislature on the 10th of
May, by special invitation of that body.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has removed
to the old family residence, at Johnstown, N.
Y., and will make it her permanent home.

	Miss Emily Faithful is to give to the world
her impressions of America in a volume en-
itled "Three Visits to America,” now nearly
ready for the press.

	"Queen Ranavalona III, of Madagascar, is
a true Maria Theresa.  On ascending the
throne she said: “I shall prove myself a soldier,
ever ready to defend, with you, the land of our
ancestors.” This good and benevolent queen
died very recently; she had done much for the
elevation of her subjects, and excelled in all
good deeds.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


							WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	This was the farewell ball which Col. Kane
so touchingly described to the "Historical So-
ciety of Pennsylvania."
	My parents and a great number were there,
both old and young, but there were also many
more who did not attend it.  There were not
horses enough for all to ride, and we being a-
mong the number who remained behind were
determined to make a party, too, and accord-
ingly the boys got a quantity of bushes and
made a bower before our tent, and commenced
dancing about noon and continued till supper
time. We then adjourned till evening. when
we met and danced till about ten o'clock, and
then dismissed, having had a good time, and
all expressing themselves satisfied with our
scene of festivity. We could furnish our own
music, and we often danced "by the light of
the moon," which was then shining upon us in
all its glory like one bright chandelier. I remem-
ber many an evening afterthe cares and bustle of
the day were over, when numbers of the youth
would gather outside the tents, and as chairs
were rare luxuries, the majority resorted to
wagon tongues, ox-yokes, provision chests and
that sort of appliances in camp life, where we
enjoyed a quiet entertainment of songs, music,
etc. Horace excelled as a flutist, and the
sweet strains that flowed soft and mellow from
his instrument was owing much to his father’s
training. When a small boy, in Kirtland, he
was presented with a fife by Orson Hyde, who
was then a clerk in his father's store, but his
incessant practice wearied his father and every
body within the hearing of it. And seeing
his determination to learn the instrument his
father bought him a flute the next time he
went to New York for goods. John F. Boyn-
ton, one of the first quorum of the twelve, who
stopped at his father's a great deal, gave him
his first lessons on the flute, and his father
would always correct him if he heard him play
otherwise than smoothly. He also possessed
an excellent voice for singing, as well as a gen-
erous supply of wit and humor, and telling
anecdotes was one of his best fortes; and there
were others of this class as well as some supe-
rior lady singers, and by this means we often
drove away, dull care and cheered the aged
and the drooping hearts, making lighter their
burdens. One of the best songs that we used
to hear was the "Jewish Maid," which one of
our girls could sing as sweetly as did Miss De-
vine at the Point, the evening before the de-
parture of the battalion boys, which was refer-
red to by the late Thomas L. Kane, but who,
it seems, was unable to obtain the song except
the following lines, which he gives as "a ver-
sion of the text touching to all earthly wander-
ers."
	"By the rivers of Babylon we sat down and wept,
		We wept when we remembered Zion."
	Bro. John Kay was the first to introduce
this song to us in Nauvoo, but the chorus was
changed, and instead of singing
	"No more shall the children of Judah sing,"
it was
	"Again shall the children of Judah
		Sing the lays of a happy time."
This was sung according to the faith of the
Saints, who did not weep when they "remem
bered Zion," for Zion they had brought with
them.
	The same day that we held our festival we
were visited by two men from the village, who
came on horseback, their names being Beach
and Harding. They were old residents there.
Mr. Beach informed us that the name of the
creek in that vicinity was "Butterfly."
	The day following the folks returned home
and brought the news that four companies
started from the village that day, and the fifth
was to start on the morrow. It is not pleasant
to dwell on the dark side, nor is it my inten-
tion now to rehearse the scenes or sorrow and ad-
ditional suffering of wives and children, which
was forced upon them by the cruel requisition
made upon our people at that time by this gov-
ernment, after suffering us to be ruthlessly
driven out from their midst, I will only men-
tion the case of Sister Ed. Martin, which may
illustrate the pitiful condition under which
many more were left with families.
	Brother Martin had just buried a new born
infant, and left his wife sick, not knowing who
was to take care of her, and there was no time
to make any arrangement for her comfort, and
they had to leave all in the hands of God and
their friends. And who are more capable of
singing and sensing the full meaning of the
sweet and touching song,
	"Hard times, hard times come again no more"
than the ones who remember those gloomy
days and scenes of want and suffering that
were experienced by the Saints who were left
in Winter Quarters.
	The following is from my husband's jour-
nal. 
	"Wednesday, 22nd	Rained a little this
morning.		*	*	Continued storming
throught the day.  I went ahead on the road
about a mile to watch the Indian cornfields,
lest the cattle shall break into them. These
are to be found on either side of the Butter-
fly Creek for some distance up and down that
stream. In the making of these fields they
have not used the plough, but selecting the
softest ground, which is to be found on the
margin of these streams, with little or no sod.
They have simply cut down the weeds with their
hoes, and then put in their corn. In this way
they leave it, giving it no farther attention till
they are ready to harvest it, or rather when
they return from their hunting expeditions they
resort to their fields for roasting ears, which
they are very fond of. If any is left after that
they bury it deep in the ground, where it re-
mains during the winter. I had considerable
difficulty in keeping the cattle away from the
fields.	*	*	*	Quite a number of
teams from Brigham's camp as well as our
own, started to-day, and I had all I could do
to keep the cattle of our camp from crossing
the creek and following them off.
	"About noon Bro's B. Young and Kimball
and Dr. Richards passed by me in a carriage
on the way to the Elk Horn,	*	*	in
order to survey the face of the country."
Those six men who had been sent up the Mis-
souri River to "select a location returned, and
reported that they had been some distance up
the river, but had been entirely unsuccessful
in finding a suitable place to winter, the coun-
try being no more favorable for that purpose
than the place where we now are. According-
ly, Brigham advised the brethren in  council
on Monday last, at the Bluffs, to disperse
themselves among the hills and bottoms and
remain there this winter.
	While out to-day I set my hook and line
and caught six very fine cat-fish, one of which
weighed four or five pounds.	*	*	*
Bro. Kimball exchanged his horse, Charley,
for one yoke of oxen, a cow and heifer, and
another old horse for another yoke of oxen.
To-day Hans was fitted out with a wagon and
team to accompany his father-in-law over the
mountains."
	"This company started the next day, but
coming to the creek they were obliged to build
a bridge before crossing, the late rain having
considerably swollen the stream--consequently
had to camp.	*	*	*	Bro. Kim-
ball and Brigham returned to-day from the
Elk Horn.	*	*	Just as Bro Kimball
arrived Bro's Woodruff, Taylor, Little and
Horne came here in pursuance to previous ar-
rangement to hold council. They remained
with us all night. Bro. Kimball rode over to
the creek to organize that company before they
go on. He appointed Hiram Clark captain of
fifty, and Bro. A Billings and N. B. Barthol-
omew as his counselors. We hear that a num-
ber of Indians rode over to look at their corn
this afternoon, and on discovering it to be trod-
den down by the cattle, were very angry; and
for fear that they might retaliate by taking
some of our cattle every man in the camp was
ordered out to assist in driving in the cattle
and yoking them up, which was done."
	On the morning of the 24th the Twelve and
Bp. Whitney met in council pursuant to ap-
pointment. Father sent most of the camp a-
head that day, in order to build a bridge over
the Elk Horn, this being one of the objects of
the council. Horace says:
	"Today our cattle remain yoked, and two
men are sent out to herd them. I went myself
on that duty this afternoon--the bridge they
have built is a very good one--but three or
four families remain besides Bro. Kimball’s
and father’s”
	The next day being July 25th, Horace
wrote:
	This being the 23rd anniversary of my birth-
day mother, Sarah Ann and Orson took sup-
per with us at Bro Kimball's tent. To-day
Bro. Orson Hyde moved back over the river,
where he intends to leave his family till his
return from England, whither he is immediate-
ly going with Bros. Parley P. Pratt and John
Taylor.  Bro. Woodruff is about moving over 
this side of the Missouri River.	*	*	
About eleven oclock at night it commenced
raining and continued about half an hour ac-
companied by considerable thunder and light-
ening. We hear that one of the soldiers breth-
ren has died since their departure from the.
village. He is said to be the son of the late
General Dunham, of the Nauvoo police, who
died about a year ago, while on a mission a-
mong the Indians."
	"Saturday, 26th. Fair weather--Bro. kim-
ball and father sent four yoke of oxen each to
the river to assist Bro. Woodruff up. Bro.
Coolidge with his omnibus came in the after-
noon, Bro. Hosea Cushing driving it for him,
he being quite sick at this time. Wm. Kimball
and some of the rest of the boys got back from
the river, where they went this afternoon,
about two o'clock in the morning, bringing up
the remainder of Bro. Coolidge's wagons.
Bro. Brigham, Kimball and father went over
the river to-day.	*	*	Bro. Harrison
Burges took the lead of a meeting which was
held here to-day under our bower in front of
the tent, by Bro. Kimball's request."


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				____

	Humility is the source of all true greatness:
pride is ever impatient, ready to be offended.
He who thinks nothing is due to him, never
thinks himself ill-treated: true meekness is not
mere temperament, for this is only softness or
weakness.—Fenelon.
	In counteracting onr defects, we should be
cautious not to blunder by imitation of others.
We,should search till we find where our char-
acter fails, and then amend it—not attempt to
become another man.—Cecil.
	He who directs his life well, understands the
best sort of grammar. To speak from the
heart and tell the truth, is very good logic,and
will serve very well for rhetoric also.  He who
runs up a score of good actions, succeeds well
in arithmetic, and the man whose life is starry
with virtues is a famous astronomer.  This is
the kind of education all people ought to
have.—From a German Writer of the 13th
century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELEN AND VIRGINIA. 
[Continued from “Honora to her babe,”]
The words died down upon her lips,
And bending o’er her lovely child
She crashed back to her swelling heart
	The tortured thoughts that fiercely rose;
For thee—lest heart and brain grow wild—
Thy mother braves and bears her woes.

But he the faithless, falthlef s twice—  
To marriage vows and guilty pledge,
Palling of sin’s love lightly won
And piqued by virtue’s calm, pure face,
Turned towards Virginia as the one
Prize in his life’s impetuous race.

And while Honora statue like
Sat in sad reverie alone,
He entered with a king’s own mien,
	The room where fair Virginia wrought,
His own impassioned love made known,
	And boon of faintest hope besought.

Not e'en her pure reply could win
The wanderer from his false path;
Defeat brought not repentant shame
And lofty purpose to his soul,
He turned in hate and sudden wrath
	From her his guile could not control

"Honora, hear! we go this day*
Out from this place; it matters not
Our destination, or the cause.
You cannot leave Virginia? She.
lias grown so dear nnto you? 'What!
She has grown hateful unto me."

Amazed, Honora helpless gazed
Into a future blank and cold;
Past griefs like broken arrows laid
	Beneath her feet, nor had she known
How like a warm and sheltering fold
	This young girl’s soul ’round hers had grown

"Virginia, fold those robes away—
Signora will not sing to-night:
Attend her summons, ’tis the last
	Deed thou wilt ever render her;
Vain, boasting nature! thou hast sapped
Thy walls that all too feeble were!"

Calmly Virginia rose and went
Where mute Honora bowed her head;
The gems and robes she laid away;
	The travelling robes laid out with care;
Questions and answers both unsaid— 
Yet each heart guessed the secret there.

"Farewell? Virginia, teach my heart :
Thy gift of strength, of hope so strong—
Since here I met thee, thou hast been
My inspiration and my staff;
Hence, on life’s stream I float along,
'Neath changeful skies, on drifting raft."

"The Source that dowered thee with gift
Of matchless voice, extends as sure
Its strength and balm secure for thee;
Thy fears, thy grief, thy tears restrain,
A certain faith my heart assures,
Signora, we shall meet again.”
*    *    *    *    * 
Paler, within her now found home,
Virginia bends her task above;
Her earnest thoughts are far away
With wronged Honora’s destiny;
Her gifts, her grand, pure soul, her love,
	A slave 'neath splendor's livery.

In this fair home peace seemed to smile;
A husband gen’rous, noble, good,
A wife fair as th e tend’rest flower,
And free from care or cold restraint.
Here gifts and grace of womanhood
Might bloom ’neath its protecting power.

Here evening after evening found
Virginia with them ns their own;
Their only child drew close to her,
	For his lair, mother lightly wore
The sacred charm by mothers known; 
She was good to him, nothing more.

Her boy had never climbed her knee.
And rocked to sleep upon her breast,
She gave him all that money buys,
	And always kissed the child, good night,
A servant's hands did all the rest—
So he was healthy all was right.

'Twas strange that what he ne’er had known—
Love deeper than a servant’s care—  
His spirit recognized, and reached
With answering clasp Virginia’s love; 
And she fulfilled her mission there,
As charged upon her from above.

The father's face wore grateful smile
To greet his boy when evening came,
So that he gave them no annoy
The mother cared not if he stayed;
	And he by this girl's arms caressed
Shared gentle pleasures none might blame;
Then wearied sank to slumber's rest.

Oft times gay friends brought pleasures new,
And mirth and music filled the air,
And even through the chaugiug scenes
Virginia, faithful, calm and sweet,
Kept ’rouud him still her gentle care,
Striving to make his life complete.

As, 'neath the waters calm and clear
Of some fair lakes, strong springs uprise
Far in their depths, and are their life;
	So, in her hidden nature rose
A change e’en she scarce realized;
So gently to her heart disclosed.

And yet not strange to natures pure,
Unpruned, by errors vain conceit
That clips the spirit here and there
And mutilates with impious hand
The human that God made complete— 
Nature’s true woman or true man.

'Twas mother-love. So strong it grew
It filled the heart else cold and lone,
Yet like a thirst unsatisfied
	That ever pleads, the thought would come
To her own heart, to none else known,
For mysteries are ever dumb,

"Why was I born with hopes that build
Home castles fair ’gainst ev’ry storm,
With cheerful hearth and I its qeeen?
Why was I born a woman?  Why
With woman’s nrms and bosom warm,
	If therein never my child shall lie?

"Read me of homily of fate
Decreeing hunger to the soul
While others feast and wantons waste;
'Tis man, not God who has denied
An equal justice to the whole,
And famished nature e'en deride.

"Truth, reason, teach me still to trust
God’s justice and His power sure
To lead the faltering feet through paths
Where from His own great treasury
Each shall his rightful gift secure,
Nor doubt, nor wrong, nor grief shall be.


PETITION TO DISFRANCHISE 
WOMEN.

	The Boston Woman's Journal of May 27th
contains in its editorial columns an article re-
ferring to the petition of Mrs. A. G. Paddock,
of this city, for the disfranchisement of
the women of Utah. Mrs. Paddock explains
to them that the committee who have prepared
the petition are all of them suffragists, but
adds, "The entire Gentile population, both men
and women, are willing to be disfranchised,
and to have the Territory governed by a
commission.”
	But it appears Mrs. Paddock "reckoned with-
out her host," for the Journal of June 5th,
contains a letter from Mrs. Sarah A. Cooke,
who signs herself President of the Anti Poly-
gamy Society, in which she says: “Go away
from home to hear the news," and adds, "I certain-
ly have not learned anything here of that pet-
ition. I have repeatedly expressed the opi-
nion that it would be unjust to disfranchise women
and not the men. Under the commis-
sioners, the men who are or have been in poly-
gamy are disfranchised."


Now with all due deference to those who do
not throughly comprehend how far this reaches,
or how distinctive the disfranchisement is by
the Edmunds law, as administered by the com-
missioners, allow one who knows to explain that
not only all men who have been polygamists at
any time (in the marriage relation), but all
women who have at any time lived in the order,.
of plural marriage, are also, disfranchised
indiscriminately, whether before the law of
1862, or since, it matters not; women whose
husbands died previous to 1862, and who were
not only American citizens in their own right,
but were first wives, have been refused to regis-
ter, on the same grounds as those living in the
practice of plural marriage at- the present time.
If this is not an exposte facto law what is it?
	However, one thing is evident, that Mrs.
Paddock and the Anti-Polygamy Society do
not agree in their policy in reference to the
women of Utah.  Mrs. Jennie B. Froseith also
protests against the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah, both Mormon and Gentile a-
like.
	The Woman’s Journal in its editorial re-
marks, “The male population of Utah is over-
whelmingly Mormon- We can inform the
Journal that the women of Utah are “over
whelmingly Mormon.”  That Mormon Women
in point of number as well as influence are a
power in the Church, and are women of intel-
ligence, notwithstanding the Journal calls
them “dupes and slaves.” The Gentile women
numerically are a very smail proportion indeed
and there are still plenty of “Mormon” women
who can take the oath administered before re-
gistering, and though most offensive and ob-
noxious to a pure minded woman, yet for duty’s
sake they comply with the regulations of the
commissioners,that the rights they inherit may
not all be wrested from the people who have
made the country, and who by their very acts
prove their loyalty to the government, against
which they are said to be rebellious and defiant.
Knowing, too, that there are women of another
class who take this same oath, and can do so
with impunity because it includes the very
comprehensive term (in the marriage relations.)
						E. B. W.


Better to be in shame now than at the day
of judgment.--Mohammed.
	Miss Maud Howe has become art critic of
one of the Boston papers.  She is author of
“The San Rosario Ranch,” just published by
Roberts Brothers.
	Nova Scotia has followed the example of
Ontario, and enacted a law giving municipal
suffrage to unmarried women and widows on
the same terms as men.
	The British House of Commons has passed
a bill to allow a man to marry his deceased
wife’s sister, but refuses to allow a woman to
marry her deceased husband’s brother.  One
is declared right, the other “disgusting.” There
must be brains in the House of Commons about
equal to those in the House of Congress of the
United States.--Our Herald, Ind.
	Mme Kowalewsky, a Russian lady, now oc-
cupies the chair of mathematics in the Free
University of Stockholm.  Dagens Nyheter, or
the Daily News of Stockholm, wonders that
Mme Kowalewsky's professorship has not ex-
cited general attention but adds that the Uni-
versity  of Stockholm being a new institution,
is not suspected of being a rival of Upsala-
and Lund the other universities of Sweden.

	One of the suffrage workers remarks of a
lady he is an active member of fourteen so-
cieties: "If a woman can do all this, and yet
attend faithfully to her home, surely women
caff cast an intelligent ballot without failing
in her home duties.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -    -	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: no copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, - JUNE 15, 1884.


(Column One)
		﻿SOME POLITICAL MATTERS.
	Republican delegates from all parts of the
Union assembled in a national convention in the
city of Chicago, on June 2d, and with the grand
ceremonials pertaining to these important as-
semblages held the usual session for preparatory
work previous to the Presidential election.
Speeches on various subjects by some of the
most able men of the party were made in the
interest of the cause at  stake, or the man to be
nominated as candidate, and a platform of reso-
lutions prepared by a learned and august commit
tee were read, discussed, and adopted. Some of
these resolutions were good enough, and would,
perhaps, if carried out, better the condition of
the people of the United States, while others
were superfluous. The one touching the Mor-
mon question was simply a ridiculous farce, only
strung together for effect, because it has become
quite the thing to introduce anti-Mormon meas-
ures whenever there is a convention or confer-
ence, whether religious, political, or education- 
al; no matter where, or upon what account con-
vened; the Mormons cannot be let alone, but
must come in for abuse or proposals for special
legislation or both.
	It does seem absurd that in a great and grow-
ing nation like that of America so much should
be feared from a mere handful of “ignorant, de-
graded and unpopular people.” What can it
mean? The answer is plain enough; it means
persecution for one’s religion in a land of boast-
ed freedom and pretended religious liberty.
Such movements are not at all surprising from
those who have come here and have sought to
rob this people of every right and privilege
pertaining to the liberty of citizenship, be-
cause they have a special object in view; the po-
sitions of emolument and trust in the prosper-
ous and flourishing Territory which Mormon
diligence and energy has wrested from a barren
wilderness; but what possible good can accrue to
the American people at large, by denouncing
the Mormons in all their natural and public
gatherings?
	The Congress of the United States have
passed laws which are certainly sufficiently dis-
tinctive for the Mormons, and men have been
sent into Utah to see that these same laws are
properly enforced and the Courts of Judiciary
are enjoined to make these peculiar laws effec-
tive; and assuredly there can be no ground for
complaint against the persons employed in the
departments of active, executive work, for from
the commissioners, the Governor, and the Pros'
ecuting Attorney down through all the compli-
cated machinery set in motion to vindicate the
dignity of the Edmunds and Poland bill, there
is not, we feel positive, a single officer, however
lowly his station, but has sought with zeal and
(Column Two)
ardor “worthy a better cause,” to see that every
Mormon, man, woman and child, obeyed the
law in its strictest sense.
	Then when such stringent measures are used,
what need is there of further resolves? What
occasion for still more oppressive laws? To sat-
isfy the clamor of men seeking political power
at whatever cost, who will condescend to almost
anything in order to obtain popularity which
will help them on the road to success. “How
have the mighty fallen!" when one contrast
such pigmies with the grand and colossal men
who once filled the halls of the American Con-
gress. But the man nominated by he Repub-
lican party, the Hon. James G. Blaine, is mag-
nanimous enough surely to ignore such senti-
ments as those expressed In the Chicago Con-
vention in the Anti-Mormon resolution. Why
do the Mormons need to be governed by a Legis-
lative Commission? Have they refused to com-
ply with the Edmunds law or any other law,
however unjust or unconstitutional they may
deem it. No, they have not! And wherever
there is the least suspicion of any departure
from the law in its most literal sense, the mar-
shal and his deputies are immediately empow-
ered to bring the erring to justice and most strin-
gent measures possible in a free country are
brought to bear upon the person, no matter of
what sex, to make him or her testify in the
case.
	The Democratic Convention held here in the
City not only resolve against Mormons, but are
also silly enough to resolve that the Delegate
from Utah, the Hon. John T. Caine, is not a
Democrat. As if all Democrats were to be
judged by their standard; it is well known that
there is more than one kind of D[-]moc[-]a[-]s,
whether John T. Caine is or is not a Democrat
according to their half bushel measure. There
are Gentiles in this city who call themselves
war Democrats who hold very different views on
several important subjects to others of the so-
called Democratic party.
	The Democrats in the various States
are making preparations for their National
Convention which is to be held in Chi-
cago soon, and no doubt will be a tremendous
effort on the part of the party to put forth a
strong man and one who is a bona fide, staunch
democrat of some pronounced character, such as
Tilden, who now refuses to be brought forward
as a candidate.
	Perhaps Thurman is the best choice the party
could make, if we were to venture an opinion,
we would say Thurman, and being from Ohio
would be very much in his favor, for either the
fates favor Ohio,or there is some special magnet-
ism there, at least one might be pardoned for
thinking so.
	Whether the Republicans or Democrats carry
the next election it will doubtless make little dif-
ference to the majority of the people here, for
both parties have shown themselves equally the
enemies of the Latter-day Saints in the history
of the past. The genius of the American gov-
ernment is to protect the weak against the
strong, to maintain the rights of the minority
and to defend the oppressed. The forefathers,to
whom the American people point with laudable
pride, acted upon this humane and philanthrop-
ical principle; why do not their sons continue in
a course which gave to these noble patriots such
honor and distinction?
	But then the world has progressed since that
time, and it would not do for these highly en-
lightened nineteenth century statesmen to go
back to first principles. What will the end be one
cannot help querying when monopolies rule
when the strong persist in oppressing the weak,,
when riches are power, and votes can be bought
with money, to what will it eventually tend and
(Column three)
from whence shall relief come. The Republi-
cans say they can carry the nation safe through
all difficulties, the Democrats think they could
revolutionize the affairs of the Republic, the
Greenbackers and Prohibitionists have their pet
schemes; and the suffrage women have some
opinions in reference to the great matters at
stake, and believe woman with man might help
“to steady the ark” more effectually, and it is
not difficult in the midst of so much confusion
to prophecy that there is a time coming when
state will be divided against state, and city
against city, and when the sayings of ancient
and modern prophets in regard to these and oth-
er matters will be fulfilled.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society of Weber Stake will hold
a Quarterly Conference in the Ogden Taberna-
cle on the 20th and 21st of this month. A gen-
eral invitation is given in the Ogden Herald,
which also states visitors are expected fom Salt
Lake City to attend.

	ON Wednesday, June 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. S. Taylor, and Loui[-] Felt left the City for a
tour through Millard Stake, expecting to hold
two or more meetings in each settlement, the
first meeting to be held at Leamington the
evening of their arrival. They will likely re-
main away about twelve days.

	WE most gratefully acknoweledge the favor
of flowers and fruit given by the Ladies of the
Flower Mission on the 9th of June to each of
the patients of the Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Spurlock, who is a most active and efficient
worker in this labor of love, is a very sweet and
interesting woman, and also a diligent and faith-
ful missionary in the temperance cause.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.

	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of this
Stake of Zion will be held on Friday and Satur-
day, June 27 and 28, commencing at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings Friday in the 14th Ward, and if the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary hold their meetings else-
where due notice will be given through the dai-
ly papers.

	DESERET HOSPITAL.—We beg leave to inform
the members of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion, that this is the commencement of the
third year; those who have not paid the annual
fee for 1883, will please forward one dollar each
as soon as possible.
	At the organization, it was arranged that the
initiation fees be paid yearly in advance, the
membership fee is now due, and we can assure
the members the money will be very accepta-
ble.
	A number of gentlemen have expressed a
wish to be identified with the Association, and
some have already joined and paid the initia-
tion fee. Ladies also, who feel interested in this
association are cordially invited to become mem-
bers. Mech good has been accomplished by the
institution, and it is very desirable that its
sphere of usefulness should be enlarged.
				H. B. CLAWSON, President,
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
	THE Art Exhibition recently opened in Cal-
der's store was quite a credit to young Utah.
One cannot do justice to this subject, however,
without making a lengthy notice, and unless one
is really an art critic more harm than good might
be done by giving opinions on the subject. Still
we are free to say that the "San Carmel Mis-
sion" pleased us more than any other painting
there, possibly the subject had a great deal to


do with our choice. It is true we have some
young artist here who will if they are diligent
and industrious arrive at some distinction in the
profession to which they seem adapted, and in
which they have natural talent. Lorus Pratt is
certainly a portrait painter, for his work is life
like; his painting of Prest. A. M. Cannon is
seemingly perfect. Mayor James Sharp is also
excellent. There are many pictures we would
be pleased to mention if we had space. Bro.
Pratt has certainly the true genius of his work.
Wednesday last we were shown a portrait paint-
ed by J. W. Clawson, son of Bishop H. B.
Clawson, of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, which was
certainly a most striking likeness, indeed, it
seemed as if she conld speak, and the soul seams
to be in the picture. It was one of the truest
to life we have seen upon canvas. Bro. Clawson
has risen wonderfully in the art and will no
doubt make a mark in his profession.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


[Column 1]
LETTER XII.

BERNES OBERLAND AND GLACIERS.

	After finishing my last letter, we visited the
Wartberg, and then rode into the Thuringian
Forest. 'Twas a delightful afternoon, and oh, I
shall take great pleasure in describing it verbal-
ly when I come home; you have read in stories
I am sure of this wonderful forest, but I do not
think anyone could ever imagine its real beauty
without seeing it. I can easily understand how
this Black Forest is the very home of romance.
I have not time or words to write anything des-
criptive of this, it is too grandly magnifient for
any description from me, besides it will be so
much more pleasant when I come home to tell
you all when we are all together again.
	Does Dot still sing, "The Rhine, the Rhine,
the German Rhine?", I have laughed so many
times since I came here and have heard it
played by the military bands, with the thought
of her perched on the topmost limb of an apple-
tree, or hanging in a trapeze in the garden, sing-
ing this national song at the top of her voice.
	The Easter Fair is going on here in Berne now
and it is similar to the fair held in the fall, of
which I have written before. The whirligigs
are out in full force and are most freely patron-
ized. So many children there, and they all seem
to be having such a good time, but then child-
ren always do have good times. What a happy
season is childhood! so full of joys and pleasures,
without a care or anxious thought to mar its
happiness.
	To-day it is warm and bright, almost too love-
ly to stay in the house, and I am so happy with
the thought of being at home again with all my
loved ones, still I have never been homesick at
all, and every hour has been to me so pleasant,
my health has been exceptionally good, and had
it not been for John Q.'s ill health last winter,
I think there would not have been one single
cloud over these bright days. He is perfectly
well now, and looks as hearty and happy as ev-
er, and I get such good news from home, that I
think I am very greatly blessed and feel most
thankful for having had the privilege of com-
ing into this land and seeing so much of the
beautiful earth, and yet I shall be just as grate-
ful to be allowed to come home and see all my
dear friends again, and my own dear home in
Utah's vales.
	As John Q. had never been far into the
Bernes Oberland, and as I had not been at all,
he took a little holiday and we went into that
beautiful and celebrated region. We had a nice
ride on the train as far as Thune, then took the
boat for Interlaken. Lake Thune is one of the
most famous lakes in Switzerland, and no won-
der, for it is indeed very lovely. The water is
the bluest I have ever seen, though they tell

[Column 2]
me not so blue as Lake Geneva, and the sur-
roundings are perfectly charming, not so grand
as the mountains around Lake Lucerne, but
beautiful in the extreme. I wasn't half pre-
pared for the beautiful scenery of the Oberland.
I thought I had seen now so much of the gran-
deur of the Alpine regions that this part would
not surprise me, but I was mistaken, I have
never before seen anything so wild, so weird, so
enchanting as this scenery.
	The Jungfrau, the finest mountain I think in
the whole range of the Alps, was right before
us; and oh, it looked so grand in its mantle of
perpetual snow. One of the largest glaciers is
in this mountain; we visited a cataract; such
an odd, wonderful fall of water, which is fed
from this glacier. Many people ascend the
Jungfrau, though the pass is quite dangerous. A
young English girl made the ascent in Decem-
ber last. Yesterday we went to Grinderwald, a
village not far from Interlaken, through a very
romantic region. It was early in the morning
when we started, and the air was fragrant with
the odor of blooming flowers, and the mountain
villages towered above us, and the women and
children were working in the fields, not broad
fields such as we have at home, but little val-
leys, similar to those one occasionally finds in
our canyons. The little wooden houses are built
right up on top of the hills, and all along the
sides; sometimes there are landslides, which
cause the houses to be torn down; we saw an
immense stone which had broken loose from the
mountain, and in its fall had crushed a house,
with all the family inside, not three years since.
One village in the mountains is covered in with
snow from September until March; the people
live there all the winter and spend their time in
carving wood; it is in these parts that the beau-
tiful wood carving is done, but just fancy never
being able to go out of the house for six or seven
months.
	When we reached Grinderwald we took
horses and rode an hour and a half up the
mountain to a glacier. The animals were sure-
footed and knew the way as well as the guide. I
never had a clear idea of what a glacier was,
and so appreciated still more the great ice moun-
tain. In the ravine between two of the highest
mountains was this great mass of rock, ice and
snow. It has been tunneled out, and we walked
right into the cavern of ice one hundred and
fifty feet, ice above, below, and on every side.
There was inside the most beautiful light I ever
saw, just the faintest, palest blue imaginable, it
made me think, or at least fancy, I had passed
beyond things real and was being shown some-
thing more purely beautiful than that which
belongs to earth. Oh, how I wish you could
have seen it for yourself, words cannot begin to
describe its loveliness. After we had come
from the cavern and had passed on to a hill
where our horses were standing, the blocks of
ice which the present rain and warm weather
had caused to break loose from the glacier came
rolling down over the rocks with a sound louder
than any thunder, and it echoed and re-echoed
through the mountains. The host at the moun-
tain house arranged three cannons and fired
them off for us, the sound and the echoes were
tremendous and terrible. As we rode back a
boy blew an Alpine horn for us, and the echo
was exceedingly beautiful and sweet. These
horns are about five feet long, such queer-look-
ing things.
	I think we have been very fortunate in seeing
Switzerland at this time, it is all green and
beautiful as summer, and a little too early for
tourists. When the season arrives for tourists
the people nearly kill one with their trinkets
for sale, their songs, their horns, and all such
things; we have heard it all and seen the real

[Column 3]
loveliness of the place without so many petty
annoyances. An Englishman whom we met
on the Righi said he thought us very fortunate
in being out of season, for we saw Switzerland
and her people in real life. "In summer the
whole place is a perfect shop." You can imagine
from what I have told you how excessively I
have enjoyed it, but you can't begin to imagine
how lovely it all is, you must see that for your-
self. How can one say mountains are not beau-
tiful and have no charm. It seems almost to
me as though such a person can have no soul.
I shall never tire talking of Switzerland, for I
feel it must be the most beautiful country in
the world, so wonderful, all mountains, rivers
and lakes, its cities are built in ravines, its vil-
lages on the mountain sides.
	We came back to Berne last night quite tired,
though very much delighted with what we had
seen.

FROM BERNE TO PARIS.

	We left Berne on the 15th of May, going to
Montreux the following morning, and we gave
ourselves the long promised pleasure of visiting
Chillon, (of which I shall at some future time,
write a full description for the EXPONENT).
And then we took the boat and rode the
whole length of Lake Geneva; oh, such a sight;
nothing in the wide, wide world so beautiful
as Switzerland, I know, with its mountains,
lakes and rivers. We spent some time in Gene-
va and then returned to Lausanne, where we
took train for Paris. Geneva, the largest and
most noted city of Switzerland, did not please
me near as much as some of the other Swiss
cities, Zurich and Lucerne for example, but
then, none of them have a more lovely view of
the Alps and the Lake Geneva, which is the
bluest and clearest water I have ever seen; we
had a spendid view of Mont Blanc from every
direction, and for miles as we traveled along the
great, glorious, snowy Alps loomed up before us,
displaying more grandeur than ever, it seemed
to me. I reluctantly bade them farewell, for I
know I shall never see anything so wonderfully
beautiful again, and as we rode along we soon
[---] the valleys and ravines of the [---]
still above them tower the white peaks of the
Alps, until we reached the Swiss borders, and
entered the forests of eastern France. From here
the ride was dull and uninteresting until Dijon
was reached, from there the land presented a
more cultivated appearance and an occasional
chateau relieved the monotony of the plain, lev-
el fields. It was such a change from the var-
ied, smiling scenery of Switzerland that it tired
me exceedingly. We had a delightful journey
to Paris, and I want when I feel quiet and com-
posed to write it up descriptively for the pa-
per.
	Well, here we are in this beautiful city, stay-
ing at La bille's, and well pleased with the lo-
cation, as we are near the centre of this great
metropolis. The first day after we arrived we
spent walking through the boulevardes, first to
the Place de la Concorde, a large open place
which forms the head of the Boulevarde Champs
Elysees, and from which a most beautiful
view can be obtained in every direction; on one
side is the garden of the Tuilleries, another the
Rue Royale, with the famous church of the Mad-
eline in front, another the Champs Elysees, as
far as the eye can reach a long avenue shaded
with lime and chestnut trees, and a continual
stream of people walking or riding back and
forth; at the lower end of this street is the Arc
de Triumph de l'etoile, the largest arch of tri-
umph in the world, and on the fourth side is the
Seine River, crossed by a handsome bridge. The
place is most beautifully ornamented with flow-
ers, statues and fountains, and in the centre, on
he spot where the guillotine stood, now stands


a large Egyptian obelisk. We stayed there some
time looking at all the beautiful monuments,
which bear no mark or thought of the dread-
ful history of the place, but in our minds we
were recalling the horrors that happened on this
very spot. There is no place in Paris which
bears such a history of crime and disaster as
this. I cannot begin to write all we saw, even
in one day, but after I come home we can talk
so much of these streets and the sights of Paris.
We walked through the Park an[-] Avenue of
the Champs Elysees, occasionally stopping to
rest and watch the fashionable throng driving
towards the Bois de Boulogne. After viewing
the Triumphal Arch from all aides we proceeded
down the Avenue Bois de Boulogne to the park
of the same name. There were crowds of peo-
ple there, I never saw so many carriages at once
in all my life.
	Paris has twelve thousand cabs, not to men-
tion the private vehicles, and it seemed to us
that the whole twelve thousand with as many
more private conveyances were there. From
three to six in the afternoon this is the popular
drive and walk, and here at this time can be
viewed with much satisfaction the gaiety of
Parisian life. Returning from the park we
walked through other principal boulevardes,
noting the pretty shops and café[-] and finally
reached the Grand Opera House, but it is need-
less to tell you anything about this as I could
not describe it if I tried, and you have often seen
pictures of it; we hope to view the inside of it
before long, then I can tell you more. We did
not return to our room until quite late, as we
wish to see all that is possible, and one has
much to do every day in such a city as this to
begin to see half the sights.
	To-day it has rained all the day long, and as
the galleries were not open on Monday we have
had to remain a good part of the day, however,
we started out and viewed the principal shops.
Those in the Palais Royal quite disappointed
me, I expected it would be so different. I nev-
er saw so much jewelry in my life; but aside
from the jewelry and Sevres china, the other ar-
ticles were not nearly as nice as those displayed
in the shops opposite the Louvre. There are all
under [---], where we can walk without get-
ting wet, and to-day they were filled with Eng-
lish tourists, who, I suppose, were like us, walk-
ing around to pass the time away which they
otherwise would have spent in the Pere La
Chaise Cemetery, or at Versailles or at some
other interesting place. The streets of Paris are
wide and clean, and the life and bustle almost
bewilders one. I suppose there is no place in
the world to compare with it, but I do not like
it as well as some of the German cities.
	To-morrow we anticipate spending the greater
part of day in the Louvre, and oh, how I wish
you could be with us and see the wonders of art
that we shall be gazing at. Every time I enter a
gallery I think, how Louie would enjoy and ap-
preciate this.
	We get along well everywhere, John Q. has
the most wonderful faculty for finding places; he
has already located all the sights of Paris, and
we go from one place to another as we choose,
without a guide, and without the least difficulty
find whatever place or street we desire.
	We expect now to sail on the 7th of June on
the Oregon, I hope we can, for that is such a
magnificent steamer and is also the fastest sailer
on the Atlantic.
									ANNIE.


14	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY MEETING.

	June 10th, 1884, by invitation of the President
of the 21st Ward Primary Association, I attend-
ed the anniversary of the same, and heard and


saw much that was most gratifying. Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, E. C. Clawson, M. P. Young,
and Lydia Alder were also visitors; there was a
large attendance. The programme was good,
and the selections excellent and appropriate;
some very small children gave short recitations
and little songs; it would not be fair to particu-
larize where all was good, but I must mention
emphatically a cust by the Misses Olsen, E[--]
and Alice, which was faultlessly rendered. "List-
-'tis music stealing." is an exquisite and pathet-
ic duet, and was deeply interesting to me from
associations that memory called up so vividly.
The name of Olsen seems synonymous with a
concord of sweet sounds among us, for which I
for one seem very grateful.
	The order and quiet preserved in the meeting
was really remarkable among such a juvenile
assemblage and did great credit to the parents,
and also to the President and her counselors.
Sister Snow led the opening prayer, the children
following her in each sentence, which was very
effective. She afterward addressed them in her
usual sensible and practical manner; and each
lady visitor spoke a few words apropos to the
children. To me the meeting was perfectly in-
spirational, and in those expressive words, I
"felt it was good to be there."
	There was an invitation from Sister Vernon
Smith to adjourn to her house after the meeting
and partake of refreshments, which several of
the ladies accepted, and we there found an ele-
gant and substantial table spread with the
bounties and luxuries of life; and the evening
closed with "the feast of reason and the flow of
soul." Such meetings with such scenes help to
make the poetry of life, and to bring out and
unite much that often lies dormant for the want
of such genial association. May the smile and
approbation of our Great Father, with His di-
vine assistance over attend all such gatherings,
is the prayer of					H. T. K.


THOUGHTS SUGGESTED ON SATURDAY
NIGHT.

ORDER.

	'Tis a good theme, Heaven's first law, and
one which I delight in. Where'er it reigns
there's power; absent, chaos prevails. The toil-
some work is ended, eve of the day of rest is here;
on bended knee we thank the Lord for mercies
given in the past week, for bounties on us bes-
towed by His all-bounteous hand; all needful du
ties performed; procrastination is not thought
of; needful rest is sought, and all is left in "or-
der."
	The Sabbath morn is ushered in; at early
hour the nightly couch is left; prayer offered; all
things found at hand. The product of the pre-
vious evening, delight steals o'er the senses, for
it is felt that all is order. 'Tis getting church
time, and the hour has come for starting; the
spot is reached; the usual seat is gained and
taken, there to sit with thoughts collected and
wait the arrival of God's servants. Bowing in
humble adoration before the author of our being
we meet and join in songs of praise and offer
prayer to Him for mercies had since last we
met, and ask, in faith, our Heavenly Father to
bestow on us more mercies in the coming week.
	The everlasting Gospel is restored in all its
beauty, the holy priesthood is again on earth,
with prophets, seers, and revelators, through
whom the loving counsels of the great "I am"
are sent to His straying, erring children. The
end of time approaches, the six day's work is
nearly done, the great millennial day of rest is
near, eternity is before us.
	Oh! that vast word, "eternity," who can grasp
it? Our finite minds quail before it, for 'tis [---]


measurable. In the beginning all was "order."
The end of time will be in order. Order will
reign throughout "eternity," for it is God's law.
							ANNA GILL.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

	"Gail Hamilton is about as useful to Mr.
Blaine as Mrs. Logan is to her husband. It
is not probable that there is much in the story
that she composed any important part of the
Blaine Book, though she is entirely capable of
that character of writing. A distinguished
critic said recently that Gail Hamilton was one
of the few women of this age who can reason
and write like a man. At this time she is mak-
ing herself more useful than ornamental by
acting as the private secretary of Mr. Blaine.
The post-office officials here say that Blaine.
now receiving a larger mail than was ever be-
fore received by any person residing in Wash-,
ington. All this correspondence Gail Hamil-
ton handles, either writing the answer herself
or dictating to a shorthand man who is con-
stantly in service. Mr. Blaine confesses that
she can frame a letter as diplomatically as he
can himself, and he pays her the tribute of
saying that she frequently does it better. The
lady is one of your 'early to bed and early to
rise' exponents. It is said that five o'clock in
the morning never sees her asleep, and that
when social engagements do not prevent she
retires at nine. Even if she goes to bed after
midnight, she is up at five the next morning.
She is an ardent believer in the destiny of
Blaine, and does not doubt that he will be the
next occupant of the White House. Her
friends report that in connection with this faith
she is building some social air-castles for her-
self, which is altogether pardonable in a lady
of such vaulting ambition, joined to such
conspicious gifts."


Elevate the working class by keeping your
children in it.— Gladstone.

	Do you think of one falsity as harmless,
and another as slight, and another as unin-
tended? Cast them all aside; they may be light
and accidental, but they are ugly soot from the
smoke of the pit for all that.—Ruskin.

	Much dissatisfaction is expressed in England
because Miss Octavia Hill has not been ap-
pointed on the Royal Commission to attend to
the dwellings of the poor. As the papers say:
"There is no doubt that she knows more about
this subject than any man in England;" and
they call attention to the absurdity of consid-
ering a woman unfit to be appointed on the
Royal Commission, in the country where the
sovereign is a woman.—Ex.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapo-
lis Times, gives a very rich and graphic account
of the part taken by women in the late Nation-
al Greenback Convention. She says: "It was
a study of historic value to witness the bear-
ing of the women in this convention, and their
influence upon the confusion and turmoil."
We consider Mrs. Sewall one of the ablest wo-
men of the age; her executive ability is quite
remarkable, and she has wonderful tact as well
as talent.

	Madame Charlton Edholm contributed two
ably written papers on "Woman Journalists"
to the American Journalist, (St Louis, Mo.) for
March and April. She tells us the first daily
newspaper in the world was edited by a woman,
Elizabeth Mallet, in London, March, 1702."
She finds a large list in these latter days. "Un-
til women came into journalism there were no
juvenile papers, and their first efforts were in
that direction; Mrs. Child's Juvenile Miscellany
being the first, and The Rosebud, by Mrs. Gil-
man in 1832, the second.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 15


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

WHITECHAPEL BRANCH, LONDON.

	On Wednesday, March 19th, was celebrated
the tenth anniversary of the Relief Society of
this branch, in their large hall, New Road,
Mile End, by a concert or entertainment. The
bill of fare provided was of a most varied and
liberal character. In some respects this was a
model concert, all songs and matter of a ques-
tionable character, unworthy of saints, being
excluded. It was certainly one of the most,
if not the most, successful yet held, whether re-
garded numerically or in its financial results.
At seven o'clock p.m. the hall was nearly filled
by a most respectable, attentive and expectant
audience. Until eleven o'clock, with but a
short interval of ten minutes, the interest nev-
er flagged. After prayer by Elder Leo Claw-
son and a hymn, the concert commenced by an
overture, "The May Queen Waltz, pianoforte
and piccolo, Sister Dolly Atkinson and Mr. A.
Hazzard. In this limited space of course it is
impossible to do more than make a pass-
ing reference to those who more particularly
distinguished themselves by their ability or
talent. In some instances this was displayed
in a manner that must have satisfied the most
fastidious or cultured. A pleasing and unique
feature in the entertainment was that several
of the songs and recitations given were com-
posed by the respected President, Elder H.
Garner. Doubtless these are but instalments
of future favors to come. He has already
composed the following, given at this and pre-
vious concerts; "The Priesthood," "The Cat,"
"The Cheap Jack," comic, given by the writer,
"Pa's come home to-day," and last, though not
least. "Priestcraft," recited by himself, in
which blows of the most vigorous kind are
dealt this "Colossal of Error." "Pa's come
home to-day was sung by Sister Angie Cross,
pianoforte accompaniment by herself. Song by
Elder Loveday, "The Naval Hero" was well
given; as was a song by Sister A. Gill, entitled
"The Old Maid," which was deservedly en-
cored. A song by the children must not be
omitted, "Words of Wisdom," in which the
saints were exhorted to eschew tea, coffee, and
tobacco; a duet by Sisters N. and A. Collins
was given in fine style, and a song, "Exile from
Zion," was given with much feeling by Elder
H. Heath; songs by the Bros. Spillman added
to the general harmony. "The Minute Gun
at Sea," by Teacher J. Davies, and "Just down
the Lane," by Teacher T. Ellis, was well re-
ceived. A recitation by a young lady, Sister
Caroline Parrott, "The Dream," was given in
fine style. The way in which Miss Dolly At-
kinson presided at the pianoforte was most
creditable to her skill and taste. Sister Angie
Cross, whose musical skill is well known, in
her singing likewise displayed no small talent.
During the evening the following report was
read by the Secretary: Tenth Annual Report
of the Relief Society of the Whitechapel
Branch for the year ending March 4th, 1884:
	This society was disorganized in October,
1883, consequent upon the emigration of the
President, Sister E. Young; reorganized the
following March, under the Presidency of El-
der E. H. Nye. The Society now consists of a
president, two counselors, secretary and seven
teachers. Number of meetings held during
the year, 13; Visits paid, 77; Cash collected
from all sources; £10.14.5; Disbursements, £9.-
16.2 ½; On hand, £0.18.2 ½. The newly appoint-
ed members of this society are now initiated
into their work. They meet fortnightly. The
reports are given and financial matters ar-
ranged in unity and love. Thus far an extra
oneness has prevailed. The necessitous poor
have been cared for as far as the means would
permit. And it is hoped have been judicious-

[Column 2]
ly administered. The sisters feel that their
endeavors have been blessed, and that much of
the Spirit of the Lord has been in their midst.
It is the desire of all to press onward in their
labors of love in that part of the Lord's vine-
yard wherein they are placed.
				MARY GARNER, President.
				ANN GILL, Secretary.

	Elder H. Garner presided in his usual genial
style. Elders Lund and Atkins were likewise
present. Towards the close Elder Leo Claw-
son gave a short address, in which he stated
how pleased and gratified he was with the
manner the programme had been rendered.
	Prest. H. Garner then followed with a few
witty remarks about making a collection,
naively remarking that as they had all paid to
come to the concert he must let them off this
time.
	Elder Lund then dismissed with prayer, and
thus terminated this tenth and most successful
anniversary. Many of the Saints attending
came from great distances, and there was a fair
sprinkling of strangers present.
				ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
					Branch Secretary.

FARMINGTON.

	Our Primary Conference was held at the
Centreville meeting house, March 29, 1884:
present on the stand, officers, Mrs. Aurelia s.
Rogers, Mrs. Julia Hess, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark;
Mrs. Mary A. Clark, of the Relief Society,
Prest. Wm. R. Smith, Bishop Nathan Cheeney,
and Brother Nathan T. Porter, and Bro. Wm.
Preece, of South Hooper, and others of the
brethren and sisters.
	The Primaries of Davis Stake are nine in
number, all of which were represented by their
respective presidents. We hold our conference
twice a year; our exercises are similar to those
in other places. The following programme
was attentively listened to:
	Primary address by Miss Mattie Smith, of
Centreville; Singing, "Pilgrims," by a class of
young Misses from East Bountiful; Recitation,
"The Names of the Presidents of the United
States," by master Calvin W. Richards, Jr., of
Farmington; Dialogue, Oscar Layton and Hen-
ry Blood, of Kaysville: "Song of the Seasons,"
by a class from South Bountiful: Recitation,
4th chapter of Bible Questions and Answers,
by a class of boys from North Centreville; Song,
"Don't drink, my boy, to-night," by a class
from Kaysville; an essay by Miss Johanna Sea-
man; Recitation, "Barbara Fritchie," John
Rampton; Song, "Here in our mountain home,"
by a class from North Centreville; The thirty-
seventh chapter of Bible Questions were an-
swered by all the associations combined; Reci-
tation, "The Gambler's Wife," Miss Lottie
Pack; Song, "Jewels," by four girls from Far-
mington; Recitation from Card No. 4 by a
class from South Centreville; Names of the
presidents of the various Stakes of Zion by
Master Mathoniah Thomas; Recitation, "The
Fisherman and the Priest," by Frank Shep-
herd, from Kaysville; "Learning is our Aim,"
by a group from South Centreville; Recitation,
"Good Resolutions," Charles Hogan, of South
Bountiful; Recitation, "Pre-existence," Nathan
Barlow; Singing by a group from Kaysville,
"Go break the news gently to Mother."
	Prest. Rogers expressed herself well pleased
with the reports and the pieces rendered by the
children; also was delighted with their beauti-
ful singing; advised them to continue to carry
out the instructions she had previously given
them in regard to storing up beans. Said the
Relief Society was laying up wheat, and
thought the Primary children could raise beans
and donate a small portion every year.
	Good order prevailed during the meeting.
At noon the officers and members partook of a
nice picnic dinner in what is known as Brother

[Column 3]
Reeves' Hall. The tables were prepared by
the Presidents of the Centreville Associations,
Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs. Fanny Garner,
with their assistants. We do not forget those
young ladies who waited on the tables, serving
hot vegetables, etc.
	Good instructions were given to the children
by the brethren and sisters who addressed them.
					SARAH E. ROBINSON,
							Stake Secretary.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	On the 10th of May the friends of Sister
Sarah Copley prepared her a pleasant surprise
on the occasion of her 65th birthday. At two
p.m. they assembled in the Relief Society Hall;
when Sister Copley arrived, as she thought to
attend a Primary Conference and picnic, she
was struck by the almost entire absence of
children. She was escorted to the seat of hon-
or, after which Bishop C. A. Madsen made an
opening speech, in which he expressed his own
as well as his brethren and sisters’ high esteem
for Sister Copley, and their appreciation of her
labors in the Relief Society of Gunnison, over
which she has presided for nearly nine years.
She was presented with a beautiful parlor
lamp, an exquisite pair of vases and a rocking
chair. Sister Copley made a response charac-
teristic of her inborn modesty, her saint-like
humility and her integrity to the cause of
truth. An excellent repast was then served by
a number of our young ladies, who seemed to
know just what everybody wanted. Plenty
was left for the sick and the poor who were not
present.
	A few hours were spent in sociable, genial
conversation, interspersed with songs, dia-
logues, recitations, etc., when we were dismissed.
[---] James Gledhill
									H.M.
	Gunnison, May 21st, 1884.


The Woman Suffrage Bill was killed in the
N. Y. Assembly May 10, by a vote of 57 ayes
and 62 nays. The bill recognizes the right of
women to vote, and provides that no woman
who possesses the qualifications for voting
which are required of men, and who appears
before any board of registry and expresses a
desire to vote at such election wherefor that
board is making registry, shall be refused reg-
istration because of her sex. The object of
the bill, if it passed, was to make a test case
and have the courts decide whether under the
present State Constitution of New York wom-
en have a right to vote. Many who voted
against the bill said they did so on the ground
that it was clearly unconstitutional, and that
if the question was up on a constitutional
amendment, they should vote in favor of the
proposition. The Brooklyn members voted for
the bill, with the exception of Messrs. Kelly
and Nason, who were recorded in the negative,
and General Heath, who was absent.—Ex.

	The surprisingly large vote obtained under
such adverse circumstances, increases our re-
gret that Mr. Hamilton Wilcox, the author of
the bill, had not limited its scope to municipal
and presidential suffrage, so as to avoid the
legal question of constitutionality. If the vote
of the New York Assembly expresses the real
opinion of its members, a bill thus limited
might become a law, and would give women
so much political power as to ensure their com-
plete enfranchisement in the near future. It
is a pity to have the wheels of progress thus
blocked year after year upon a mere technical-
ity.—Ex.
	Manners are the shadow of virtues.—Sydney
Smith.


16	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

TO SISTER SARAH STRONG.

	Decaesed was born September 1st, 1806, York County,
Pennsylvania, was married to Jacob Strong February
28th, 1822, Strongstown, Indiana County, Pa. She
joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
under the hands of Apostle Erastus Snow, Oct. 20th,
1836, in Strongstown, Indiana Co., Pa. Immigrated to
Nauvoo, Illinois, Sept. 24th, 1839, was driven with the
Saints to the wilderness, arriving at Salt Lake City,
Utah, Oct., 1849, resided in the Tenth Ward up to the
time of her death, which took place May 9th, 1884, at
the hour of 5.52 p.m
	Whereas, It has pleased the Great Creator to take un-
to Himself our beloved Sister Strong, who had been
President of the Tenth Ward Relief Society for twelve
years, a devoted friend to the poor, and wise counselor
in her family, and,
	Whereas, It is fitting that she be held in honorable
rememberance, therefore be it
	Resolved, By the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Tenth Ward, that while we mourn, not as those who
have no hope, yet we realize that we have lost a faith-
ful President, who died as she had lived, in the hope of
a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved; That these resolutions be put upon the re-
cords of the Relief Society, and that a copy thereof be
sent to the family of our dear sister, and also to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				ELIZABETH PAUL,
				JEANNIE McLEAN,	Committee.
				MARGARET JACKSON,


OBITUARIES.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister
Edith Patten Billings, who departed this life May 18th,
1884.
	Sister Billings was born in Greene Co., Indiana,
March 15th, 1832, and has been indentified with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from her
earliest childhood, and shared in the persecutions of
Missouri and Illinois.
	She was a piece of the [---]
[---], and has passed through many trying scenes in the
history of this Church.
	Her life since her marriage has been spent in Manti.
She arrived here Nov. 22nd, 1850, and lived where the
temple now casts its shadow. She leaves a husband
and a numerous family of sons and daughters to mourn
the loss of a most exemplary wife and a kind and affec-
tionate mother.
	She has always been faithful to the principles of the
Gospel, and has ever been an active and efficient mem-
ber of the Relief Society, and for many years has cred-
itably performed the duties of assistant presiding
teacher, being especially noted for her exact neatness
and precision in preparing burial garments for the
dead. In every department of labor performed by the
Relief Society she was an able and active worker.
	Her funeral was one of the largest we have had in
Manti. Many consoling remarks were made by old vet-
erans who had known her from her young days, and al-
so by President Peterson and the Bishops of Manti,
William Reed and Hans Jenson.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as it has been the will of
our Heavenly Father, in the dispensation of His Provi-
dence, to remove from our midst our well beloved sis-
ter, we, in behalf of the two branches of the Relief So-
ciety of Manti, hereby tender our sincere and heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives of the
deceased.
	We earnestly hope and trust that they may receive in
this hour of their heavy affliction that comfort which
comes from on high, that through the dark clouds of
the present they may see the light which shineth more
and more unto the perfect day.
	Resolved, That while we realize that we have lost a
dear friend and efficient co-laborer, we also realize that
our loss is her gain, and while we mourn the loss of her
society for the present, we believe she has transferred
her labors for the advancement of the cause of Zion to
a wider field in a higher sphere, far from the storms and
perplexities of mortal life.
	Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing obituary and
resolutions be sent to the EXPONENT for publication,
and also be placed upon record in the books of the
North Ward Society.
					REBECCA WAREHAM, President,
					A. S. COX, Secretary,


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT. M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING ,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1884	No 3.


A DRIFTING BOAT.

BY CHARLES A. FOSTER.

It had floated away from the beach and bay,
	Out of sight of tower and town,
An empty and a battered boat;
	But that boat would not go down.
The morning rose on the waters wide,
	And the night fell cold and dark,
Yet ever on with the wind and tide
	Drifted that battered bark.

The sail had passed from its broken mast,
	And its painted pride was dim;
The salt sea-weed clung round its bows
	Which had been so sharp and trim.
Where were the merry mates and free
	Who had gone with it afloat?
We never learned; but the world's wide sea
	Hath lives like that drifting boat.

Lives that in early storms have lost
	Anchor and sail and oar,
And never, except on Lethe's shore,
	Can come to moorings more;
Out of whose loveless, trustless days
	The hope and the heart hath gone—
Good ships go down on the stormy seas,
	But those empty boats drift on.

They had hearts to sail in the wind's eye once;
	They had hands to reef and steer,
With a strength that would not stoop to chance,
	And a faith that knew no fear.
But the years were long and the storms were strong,
	And the rainbow flag was furled,
And they that launched for the skies became
	But the driftwood of the world.
—Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
﻿A VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.

	Oh, for an "out" into the fresh green coun-
try! Inspired by this impulse, my sister, with
our two little girls chatting with delight over
our anticipated ride, secured seats in a northern
bound train last Decoration Day—as is usually
the case on that memorable day the heavens
showered its tears upon the graves of the dead
heroes of our country—but after the ceremony
of strewing flowers, nature seemed cheered,
dried her eyes and the sun shone forth with
increased brilliancy—in token of approval.
	An example of "Might over Right," which
still holds sway in this life, was exhibited in
the cars by a man in appearance rudely taking
possession of a lady's seat during her absence
for a few moments. When informed that a lady
had already secured the seat, he answered,
"Then she may find another," refusing to arise
when she returned, although other seats were
vacant. The blood in my veins ran up to fev-
er heat, but the train sped on, leaving us at a
little quiet station, from whence we were borne
by a pair of fine animals through winding wil-
low-fringed lanes and flower-decked roads,
sweet with the fragrance of bloom and bird
song. Nature's silent influence has soothed
our indignant spirit, we breathe the cool, sweet
scented air, our eyes feast upon the scene of ru-
ral beauty and our souls swell with gratitude to
the Giver of our lovely mountain home. Man's
injustice to the weaker sex is laid aside for the
time—we are in sight of the little cottage on
the hill side, nestled in a forest of apple trees.
The snowy mountain peaks tower far above in
majestic protection, sending forth rushing, bub-
bling streamlets to dance and sing through
velvet meadows and thriving farms, to be

[Column 2]
hushed into silence on the bosom of the fa
mous Salt Lake, shimmering in the sunlight
like a huge sheet of silver.
	The sound of carriage wheels brings a bevy
of curious expectant faces to the door. We
are most cordially greeted and gracefully
waited upon by the elder girls, while two or
three younger ones run excitedly in search of
"mother;" after a smiling welcome from our
aunt we begin to make ourselves acquainted
with the little country cousins, who have
sprung up like daisies in the meadow since we
made our last visit, when a blooming lass we
tripped over the hills which years of suffering
have robbed us of power to do more than look
upon and admire.
	In this secluded spot in the suburbs of our
propserous town, is a family to be proud of—
twelve children, sex equally divided, with no
vacant chair in the household, except as it was
left to fill that of another home. Here was a
family chain without one missing or ill-favored
link—the sons handsome, intelligent, and of
splendid physique, and the daughters, without
exception, healthy, rosy-cheeked and pretty,
each head crowned with an abundance of wom-
an's glory, a fair forehead, beneath which spark-
led large, beautiful eyes. How graceful and
modest, and such housekeepers! such perfection
of neatness everywhere, while every meal re-
vealed their knowledge of wholesome, tasty
cooking; the sweet, golden butter was perfec-
tion. Vases of tastefully arranged wild flow-
ers here and there, with books and paper, many
of them our own home literature, gave evi-
dence of refinement and intelligence. And
how refreshing the spirit of kindness manifest-
ed from the eldest down to the prattling house-
hold pet. We witnessed nothing rough, bois-
terous or uncouth, nor had they been trained
for the occasion, for we were unexpected visi-
tors.
	And this was a patriarchal family in the or-
der of plural marriage! All clinging to the
faith of their parents, and proud of their birth-
right and the principle which gave them an
honorable existence among the peaceful vales
of Utah. Truly such a household is a monu-
ment of praise to the mother, a plural wife of
a noble, generous-souled man, devoted to his
family and his religion; she has lived in the or-
der of celestial marriage twenty-eight years,
and testified to me that she had never regretted
her choice, nor once felt that she had done
wrong in accepting that principle.
	This quiet, steadfast woman had followed
the dictates of a conscience born of a mighty
faith in God; found honorable wifehood and
motherhood with a man she loved and honored
—has proven herself a faithful, devoted wife
through long years of toil and trial such as
must necessarily be the lot of a woman who
bears twelve children, in moderate circum-
stances. These she has trained to strict moral-
ity, taught them to honor and uphold the Con-
stitution of their country, only to see them
robbed of all rights and privileges of Ameri-
can citizens, unless they violate that conscience
which they have been trained from birth to
hold sacred; and she, this virtuous, God-fearing
woman, must sit with hands fettered by uncon-
stitutional law, untried, unproven guilty of any
offense, while any brazen courtesan, whose steps
lead down to shame and death, may pass tri-
umphantly by her and cast her vote, while she
smiles at the men who yield her patronage.

[Column 3]
	But we leave the discussion of such weighty
subjects to abler pens, we can feel the injustice,
better than discuss it.
	Our pleasant visit is over. We're homeward
bound with a huge bouquet of sweet wild roses,
a deserted bird's nest, and a bucket full of wil-
low whistles to charm the little ones, and with
a higher, truer appreciation in our hearts for
the women who quietly, patiently tread the
ceaseless round of home duties, uninspired by
the praise of the multitude, scarcely apprecia-
ted by those for whom they daily toil and
sacrifice, until the household machinery is
brought to a solemn stop; the main spring is
worn out, the tired hands are folded in a peace-
ful rest, and the weary heart has laid down its
burden of care and sorrow. These our our Mo-
thers! God bless them! May their children
rise up and call them blessed. While the
grandest, most enduring monument, shall be an
honorable remembrance among the Saints of
God forever.					SUN FLOWER.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Lizzie Sargent, daughter of our minis-
ter to Germany, and Miss Flora Kelly, daugh-
ter of Judge Kelly, of Pennsylvania, are
among the eleven American girls studying at
Zurich.
	Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi has lately given
the New York Telegram some very interesting
facts concerning the status of women in the
medical profession. The census of 1870 showed
625 women physicians in the United States.
The census of 1880 shows 2432. This includes
irregular practitioners of various kinds; but,
irrespective of such, the increase has been very
marked.
	Antipathies.-The celebrated Erasmus, though
a native of Rotterdam, had such an aversion
to fish, that the smell of it threw him into a fev-
er. Ambrose Pare had a patient who could
never see an eel without fainting; and another
who would fall into convulsions at the sight of
a carp. What would have been the effect of
an electric eel on these gentlemen? Joseph
Scaliger and others could never drink milk.
Gardan was disgusted at the sight of eggs. A
King of Poland and a Secretary of France
bled at the nose when they looked at apples.
Henry III., of France, and many others had
a great aversion to cats, mice, spiders, etc. A
great huntsman in Hanover, who would attack
a wild boar valiantly, always fainted at the
sight of a roasted pig, if he had not time to run
away. These antipathies have been humor-
ously accounted for by the doctrine of the
transmigration of souls. Those who had been
flies in a former state were horribly afraid of
spiders; those who had been mice, did not like
cats; and those who had been cats did not love.
dogs, etc. Amatus Lusitanus knew a person
who fainted whenever he saw a rose, and al-
ways kept his house when they were in bloom.
Scaliger mentions the same about lilies, and
Bayle about honey. Bayle himself turned
pale at the sight of water-cresses; Tycho-Brahe
fainted at the sight of a fox; Henry III, of
France, at that of a cat, Marshal d'Albert at a
pig. A lady, wonderful enough, could not en-
dure the feel of silk or satin. A man, not so
strangely, was known to faint whenever he
heard a servant sweeping. Nicanor swooned
whenever he heard a bagpipe; Bayle fainted
when he heard the splashing of water.


18	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 27th Horace mentions the boys and
girls going fishing. "At the same time," he
says, "we saw a number of teams crossing the
bridge on their way back. There were ten
wagons, which proved to be the property of
men who had left the Pawnee village about 120
miles above there, in consequence of the hostil-
ity of the Indians, where they had lived a
number of years. They were going to the vil-
lage below on the west side of the river, where
a number of their company had preceded them.
Among those we saw were four wagons and six
men belonging to Bishop Miller, who are tak-
ing a load back for them, and receive in pay-
ment for the same three hundred bushels of
grain, mostly wheat.	*	*	The occa-
sion of their leaving is this—a hostile tribe of
Indians called the Punkaws, who are constant-
ly roving about and are much addicted to
thieving, have lately made their appearance at
the Pawnee village, and molested them so
much with their thieving operations and other-
wise, that they are obliged to leave, the Indi-
ans having previously stolen all their horses.
The settlement of men who have thus left, for-
merly consisted of eight families, viz.: three
missionaries, three farmers, one blacksmith, and
a school teacher commissioned by government;
the school teacher had under his direction some
twenty Pawnee children, who have left with
him to go down to the said village, and whom
he is educating at the expense of the govern-
ment. Some of Bishop Miller's men told me
that the Pawnee village was totally deserted,
they having gone out on a hunting expedition.
They told me furthermore that they are living
on the "fat of the land," there being plenty of
garden sauce, such as potatoes, onions, peas,
etc., which the settlers had left behind, not be-
ing able to bring them away."
	We had been deprived of vegetables from
the time that we had left the states, and it had
already begun to tell upon us, though we had
no idea then of the scourge and suffering that
were lying before us; but we will not "cross
the bridge till we come to it." There was a
piece of unexpected good fortune happened to
Bishop Whitney which Horace relates:
	"When father's boys went down into the
country some time after provisions he sent $89
for the same, but through the mismanagement
of the agent he did not get more than half he
wanted, and consequently would have been un-
able to prosecute the journey had it not been that
the Lord, seemingly on purpose to repair this
misfortune or injury, put forth His hand in his
behalf. The circumstances were these: Bro.
Hyde being about to depart for England, just
before crossing the river again with his fami-
ly, let him have two yoke of oxen, ten barrels
of flour, and a bushel and a half of beans,
which to use his own phrase, "has completely
set me on my feet again," and he is now fitted
out to his heart's content.	*	*	At
the same time Bro. Parley P. Pratt gave him
$30 in gold for the same amount of money."	*
	"Tuesday, 28th. Beautiful morning.
About 2 p.m. it commenced raining, and con-
tinued showering through the day and night,
accompanied by considerable thunder and
lightning—it seemed to pour down almost per-
pendicularly and in perfect torrents, so that
there was not a wagon but what the rain pene-
trated through the cover thereof and wet all
the bed clothing, etc."
	This was one of the trials calculated to test
one's patience, a virtue which had been consid-
erably exercised during the five months that
we had spent picking and plodding our way
under difficulties which no language can des-
cribe, therefore must leave it for imagination

[Column 2]
to do, though Horace gives no slight idea:
"Wednesday, 29th. This morning fine and
pleasant, the atmosphere sweet and pure, in
contrast to the sultry heat of yesterday; almost
every wagon in camp was unloaded, in order
to dry the things therein.	*	*	Bros.
Kimball and Brigham went over the river to-
day to make some arrangements for the breth-
ren starting for England.	*	*	They
intend starting to-morrow. Since we have
been lying still our cattle have suffered from
the "footale." caused either by the mud or grass
getting between their hoofs; while traveling we
have never been troubled with it."
	The remedy made use of was to pour melted
rosin into the hoof, afterwards pulling a rope
backwards and forward through it to get out
the filth. Rather a rough remedy this. We
had showers at intervals for two or three days
and nights, and on the 30th Horace wrote:
	"During the storm on Tuesday evening an ox
belonging to Bro. Eldredge was struck by light-
ning and instantly killed. Father Lott came
up to-day, bringing considerable church prop-
erty, with some cattle and sheep, etc." and that
my father and mother went over the river to
visit a farm the same day, returning at even-
ing and bringing quite a quantity of green corn
—first we had seen that was fit to eat. He
wrote:
	"Another meeting was held this morning,
and a number of teams sent down to help those
who are crossing the river all the time, and are
constantly swelling the size of our camp with
their numbers."
	Next morning another meeting was called
and a number of men who had not yet been
were sent to the river to work. Father and
President Young went also. While they were
there the steamboat "General Brooks" came
down the river and stopped at the village on our
side about two miles below the ferry' 'Bros.
Parley P. Pratt, Orson Hyde, John Taylor, R.
Pierce and Little came over in a skiff and took
in Bros. Brigham and Kimball and went down
the river to overtake the boat, but when they
got to the village the steamboat had left, conse-
quently Bros. Taylor, Hyde and Pratt were
obliged to go down in a flat-boat in company
with some missionaries till they can overtake a
steamboat."
	"Saturday, August 1st.	*	*	*	*
Another lot of men were sent down to the river
this morning with teams.	*	*	To-
day a number of the Otoe Indians were here,
they had a lot of corn with them which they
had stolen from the cornfields of the Mohawks
close by here. The Otoes are a mean, thieving
race, and are also very cunning, which they
showed particularly in this case, knowing that
the taking of the corn would be laid on to us
by the Mohawks. Father, mother and little
brother are very sick to-day. Father took
cold sitting up and watching with mother, who
was very sick during last night, but is a little
better to-day"	*
	"Sunday, 2nd. Brothers Brigham and Kim-
ball and some others took a trip up the river
on this side to-day to find out a nearer road to
the place where they want to go, they returned
and held a council.	*	*	It is con-
templated to start on to-morrow or next day
and to go to some place to settle down and pre-
pare for winter.
	To-day, by Bro. K.'s advice and arrangement,
the family was divided into three messes, mak-
ing it more agreeable and convenient for all.
*	*	To-day put up my little tent again
*	*	*	Sarah Ann, Helen, Mary
Houston, George Billings and myself are to
occupy it."
	"Monday, 3rd. The weather still fine.	*
Brother Kimball sent ten yoke of oxen down
to the river to help up Bro. Clayton and fami-
ly.	*	*	Bro. Brigham let Bro. Kim-
ball have a quantity of beef to-day, an ox of

[Column 3]
his having jumped off a bridge and broken his
neck this forenoon.	*	The same
day he called the people of the camp together
and told them the intention of moving in the
morning, and received their vote and acquies-
cence in the same. Among other things he in-
formed them that they had found a good road
on the "divide" between the Missouri and Elk
Horn Rivers, and they had no doubt of finding
some good location. We started next morning
and traveled eight miles and encamped on the
prairie."


UNION.

	Union is something that ought to be cultiva-
ted and exist in every settlement of the Latter-
day Saints. And without it we cannot accom-
plish much good. We ought to try and be
united with each other as much as possible.
The Lord says, "Unless ye are one ye are not
mine." By that it seems that we must unite
or He will reject us. And without union our
meetings cannot be interesting. Then let us be
united in our meetings as well as in other
things. It seems that nothing worthy can be
accomplished without union. Without united
effort this stream of water that flows close by
cannot be controlled; one man's efforts would
be useless to control it, but the united efforts of
twenty or thirty have once controlled it, and
they will do it again.
	One grain of powder is harmless, but when a
barrel explodes it will tear the rocks to pieces.
Think of the great damage that was caused
by the united effect of the explosion of many
tons of powder in the magazine at Salt Lake
City. Who has not heard of the Indian chief
who, when on his dying bed, took a single ar-
row and broke it easily, and then said to his
sons, This is the way you will be broken after
your father is dead if you single out and di-
vide yourselves! And then he took a bunch of
arrows and told one of his sons to break them,
but be conld not; the father then said, This is
the way you will be if you all stay together
and remain as one; you cannot be broken.
Take a single match and light it and it is no-
thing, but unite it with other flames and its
power is wonderful. It will destroy property
of every kind. And where there is union al-
most anything can be accomplished.
						NORA SAVAGE.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Henry Carey, a cousin to Queen Elizabeth,
after having enjoyed her majesty’s favor for
several years, lost it in this manner: As he was
walking in the garden of the palace, under the
queen’s window, she asked him, in a jocular
manner, "What does a man think when he is
thinking of nothing?" The answer was a very
brief one. "Upon a woman’s promise," he re-
plied. "Well done, cousin," said Elizabeth,
"excellent!" Some time after he solicited the
honor of a peerage, and reminded the queen
that she had promised it to him. "True," said
her majesty, "but that was a woman’s prom-
ise."—Ex.

	Maud—Isn't it dreadful, Julia, about the
banks, and Wall Street, and stocks, and every-
thing of that sort? Julia—Just shocking!
Politics are such dreadful things. Maud—And
don’t you know I have been worried to death
about pa! Julia—Why? Does your pa own
a bank? Maud—No: but he’s got lots to do
with mortgages and speculations and that sort
of things, and I just know that when I ask him
to get a new gold-plated set of harness for
Kitty, he’s going to look up with that awfully
solemn look and say, "My daughter, do you
read the papers?"—Washington Hatchet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 19


HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

"Wait thou, my spirit, till he calls
In answer to thine earnest prayer;
Do thy full duty, guard thy steps,
	For oh, I feel a presence near
That almost parts the burdened air;
	I lean; I wait, the voice to hear."

And once, unconscious who was near, 
She held the boy and sang to him;	
The hearer’s eyes drank in the scene,
    	And knew what most his love had missed—
The mother-heart. His eyes grew dim
	As she the drowsy eyelids kissed.

More thoughtful daily grew his face;
If she had ever sought his eyes
She might have caught a shadow there
	Rising o’er her own peaceful day;
But In her own pure soul the skies
	Were blue and clear, and plain the way.

And his fair wife, like humming bird,
Flitted for pleasure here and there;
He would not check her radiant smile,
	Could not reprove her thoughtless life
But lover still, he strove to bear
	The fears with which his peace was rife

Restless she grew ’neath home’s dull claims,
Insatiate grew her vain desires;
The tender quiet of his face
	Passed o’er her like a shadow cold;
A thought, that leaped like mocking fires—
	“Was he not growing selfish, old?”

“Well, if he chooses to be tied down		"
To dull home circle, tame home songs, 
Why, there’s Virginia and the child,
	Safe company, at any rate.”  
For her the zest-inspiring throngs,
	In part, his fault should expiate.

What wonder then that pity grew 
Slowly within Virginia’s heart?
With gentle care she strove to make
	Home brighter for the fair one’s eyes,
Kept ev’ry troublous thing apart,
	As though her own peace were the prize;

In vain—except the young wife thanked
Virginia in her inmost-heart
For taking charge of dull affaire,
	Grateful indeed that some there were	
Contented to perform a part 		
	Long since distasteful grown to her.

To him, home grew the dearest place,
Full well he strove to weave its charm
Around the lovely wanderer;
	But stronger still the contrast grew—
Lilian, who loosed his guardian arm,
	Virginia, unto duty true.

“Come, Lilian, let us [--]ng to-night.”
Then answered she with weary air,
“I’m going out, and I must dress;
	Banish that cloud that shades your brow;
Sing with Virginia, I don’t care
	To sing that kind of music now.”

What perill for what power lies
In music, richer far than speech;
Who does not know some blessed strain
	That lives, a sacred monitor,
Recalling oft to the heart's reach
	Life's sweetest memories again?

What wonder that in time there grew
Love, pity's sister, in her soul?
Yet like a hidden prisoner,
	No eyes discerned his presence there, 
Her secret lived 'neath her control,
	Faithful ti duty, pure as prayer. 

Yet oft within her mind arose 
The ill-adjusted laws which bind 
The wothy and unworthy, one, 
	While neither happiness secure:
Nor either other bliss may find,
	But life long burden mest endure.

But for the child grown dear to her,
Virginia long ere this had gone,
But something in his clinging love
	Plead to her heart, not yet--not yet--
It held her fast, it led her on,
	Till the release she prayed was met.

Whence came the shaft that laid him low?
Was it the mother’s heart to wake?
Frightened and helpless as a child
	She stood apart—“Virginia, come,
He calls for you, that you might take
	Him in your arms.”  Pallid and dumb.

She raised him in her arms once more;
“Rock me,” he said, then looking ’round,
“Kiss me good night, papa, mamma;
	Virginia, I am going where
I dreamed, and told you—hold me tight—
	I dreamed ’twas you who took me there.”
He laid his check upon her heart,
They hushed their sobs, nor touched his hand:
Virginia’s eyes beamed down in his
	Love, courage, faith; he smiled, and then,
Half dreaming, whispered, “there !” and
	Drew one deep sigh, nor breathed again.
With her life's secret, and its loss,
With empty arms, no longer now
Did duty plead a double cause,
	Nor felt her sacred sorrow yield
License to meet the hallowed love
	Beside the precious dead revealed.

For him, life spread like ocean vast,
False, shining waves that dancing leapt
To changing music ev’ry hour
	Above the treacherous, hungry dcep;
Rude winds in shreds the sails had swept,
	And left him all alone to keep

Watch o’er the frail, dismantled bark,
or Lilian’s soul was like her face,
And both like April’s fleeting day,
	With sudden bursts of shower, then
Its sunshine, carols, and its flowers.
	All beauty, life and warmth again.

He knew that soon her soul would rise
Freer and lighter than before,
And that the sphere whose shining dome
	His hope and love had gilded bright
Was but a hollow, glittering toy,
	A bubble, broken in his sight.

His name—through generations old
Sire unto son had, dying, left
The ancestral home and honored name;
	With him that name would die away,
His household of his son bereft,
	No hope illumed his darkened day.

And as a bird by chill winds driven
Seeks refuge till the storm is spent
In e’en the gnarled and hollow bough,
	So to her kindred, distant, cold,
Virginia for a brief time went,
	Nor dreamed the new life to unfold.

Some idle words that caught her ear,
Disdain, contempt, for some new creed,
Woke a desire, an inquiry—
	“What is this faith so strangely new
And so delusive, that indeed
	Divines fear ’twill their work undo?”


[Column 1]
SOME OF THE REASONS WHY.

	The following is in answer to a letter from a
Gentile lady in Cincinnati, making some in-
quiries in regard to our principles and institu-
tions:
		SALT LAKE CITY, March 23rd, 1884.
DEAR MRS. ELKINS:
	I am sorry your inquiry has been so long neg-
lected, perhaps the fact of my having a fam-
ily of five children and no servant may be a
satisfactory explanation.
	I do not wonder at strangers puzzling over
our state of life, because it is something new,
practically; its history in the Bible is like a
story of the past, respected because within the
sacred pages that have been the only light and
hope of the Christian world.  But what God
has once established can He not establish again,
even though men had lain aside the ancient
customs and even made laws against it?  The
reason that so many are unsatisfied, and some-
times even disgusted with the monogamic sys-

[Column 2]
tem of marriage, is because it is like a house
built upon the sand, with no foundation of di-
vine principle, authority, or promise of hope
of its perpetuity beyond the grave.  The world
has lived for self not God, the present not the
future. I do not feel to be an instructor in so
great a matter, but will try and reply to your
different inquiries according to my own expe-
rience and observance, for I would feel con-
demned to remain silent.
	I was a plural wife two years, and then the
first wife of my husband died, after a brief ill-
ness, being of apoplectic habit. It was with
her full consent (or I would never have entered
her family) also that of her children, that I
became her husband's and their father's
second wife.  During this two years we
never exchanged unkind words; she
was many years my senior, and perhaps
looked on me something as she would have
done on a younger sister.  I always bore in
mind that she had made a great sacrifice of
her personal feelings, through zealous devotion
and conscientious noble principle, that she had
risked all on the altar of her faith, trusting in
God and the honor of her husband and myself
to do our part in this most solemn coven-
ant.
	The woman heart and nature, as well as the
man heart and nature, are the result of genera-
tions of training and a selfish looking out for
self.  Take the Bible from the earth and in a
few centuries, or less, what would the Chris-
tian world become?  Women and men can be
perfectly happy in this order of marriage if 
they are guided by principle, and not by frivol-
ous fancy, or mercenary or ambitious mo-
tives.
	Now, when the evening comes, aud the hus-
band is away?  Well, if the husband is a real
Latter-day Saint his wife or wives,who do not that
evening have his society, know just where he is,
that he is not down town in a saloon,or anywhere
else practicing infidelity to his marriage vows,
and trying to deceive them. They know that
he stands more in awe of his Creator and the
guardian angels that we believe are continually
beside us keeping a faithful record of our
words and deeds, than of all the earthly courts
and laws the libertine fears.  That the loss of
the confidence of his brethren and family
would be his sorest penalty.  This wife would
gather her children around her in order, tran-
quility and happiness, and in quiet industry
employ their time and instill into their minds
that they are the most blessed, most hopeful,
and surest of present and eternal happiness, of
all God's creatures upon the earth. She feels to
give herself and her children to the service of
His plan, the strengthening, enduring and up-
building of His Kingdom, by their influence,
labors, prayers and aspirations.  These themes,
and not the trivial carnal crosses, occupy their
minds.  Not repinings—more knowledge is the
prayer.  Love of man is bondage.  Love of
God and His principles, with a just man, as
God's representative, for companionship, both
with the same mutual aim, righteousness here,
the courts of God hereafter, fill their minds
too well for them to stoop to or mourn for the
phantom joys of changeful, weak humanity,
bestowing or withdrawing.
	I fear I have not answered you after all.
Write again.		Yours truly,
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


Some readers are like the hour-glass (their
reading is as the sand; it runs in and runs out
but leaves not a vestige behind); some like a
sponge, which imbibes everything, and returns
it in the same state only a little dirtier; some
like a jelly-bag which allows all that is good
to pass away, and retains only the refuse and
dregs. The fourth class may be compared to
the slave of Golconda, who casting away all
that is worthless,preserves only the pure gems.
—Coleridge.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten opies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., [-]ast Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah

SALT LAKE CITY, - JULY 1, 1884.


THE HOAR AMENDMENT.

	It is even more than "passing strange" that
such a measure as the Hoar amendment to
the Edmunds bill, could by any means have
passed the Senate.  And one cannot help feel-
ing somewhat horror-stricken when considering
to what base ends the law has been made to
band. The fact stands recorded in Congress
that this most extraordinary document did posi-
tively pass the Senate on the 18th of June, 1884.
It is, however, worthy of recognition that there
were certain members of that august body of
men, who had the nobility and the courage to
vote against this most unjust and unscrupulous
measure.  One cannot help admiring and re-
specting such men; who will not for popularity,
influence, or any sinister motive, vote for what
they consider an illegal and unconstitutional
law; who are determined to main [-]in and honor
the principles of the Constitution, framed by the
honorable "fathers of our country" to protect
the people in all the rights and privileges that
pertain to l[-]fe, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness, notwiths anding they are opposed to the
patriarchal order of marriage (approved of God
and sanctioned by His prophets in olden times),
which is a religious principle of the Latter-day
Saints who inhabit Utah, and for which they
are called in question in the highest courts in
the nation in which they reside, censured and
dis[-]ranchised, and this not being thought suffi-
cient punishment, they are to receive not on y
further indignities, but to be forced, if possible,
into a condition of abject serfdom, taxed to
maintain laws they have no part in making,
and rulers they can have no right in choosing.
All this and more in a country which professes
religious liberty and offers a shelter for the op-
pressed of all nations, and in a Territory which
they themselves have rendered habitable by
toil, industry and diligence, driven as they
were by the exigencies of their situation,
brought about by mobs and violence, into a
wilderness where only wild beasts and savage
hordes roamed at will, yet glad to escape from
persecution and find a haven of peace an[-] rest
far from civilization, home and friends, that they
might worship God according to the dictates of
their own conscience, and obey the principles
revealed to them without fear or molestation.
The blessing of God having descended upon this
people in the desert land, and we having greatly
increased and multiplied in numbers, the anger,
indignation and jealousy of many of the over-
pious and unprincipled men and women of this
great Republic has been kindled into fever heat,
and as year after year rolled by and all measures
and schemes formed against this "despised peo-
ple" failed in checking the growth and develop-
ment of "Mormon" interest, it began to becon-

[Column 2]
sidered a difficult matter, a problem, a knotty
question, and one of the utmost importance to
get rid of.  Great, wise and learned men have
wrestled with this matter in vain, and still the
little grain of mustard seed sown in obscurity,
and insignificant, has grown and become a great
tree, and its branches have spread far and wide,
and have given shelter to many people, and it
is alarming in the eyes of the world, who know
not the marvellous work and wonder which is be-
ing brought to pass in this the last dispensation
of the fulness of times.
	But these are themes one can go on elaborat-
ing to almost any extent, for they are illimitable,
but suffice it to say, the tree cannot be rooted
up, or if it is, the scattering of innumberable in-
finitesimalseeds will "take root and flourish,"
and it will be found impossible to crush it out of
existence.
	When o e considers that this nation in dealing
with the momentous question of so termed
"Mormonism" is measuring arms with the
Almighty, it seems absurd to notice what is be-
ing done, but when one contemplates the doings
of men in these matters, and considers the bear-
ing it has upon men and women, causing suffer-
ing mental and physical, one is forced to deal
with the matter of aggression in defense of
rights, civil, political and religious.  When the
strong oppress the weak, when the nation
makes specific laws for certain classes of its
actual citizens, is it not time for rational
men and woman to resort to all just ex-
pedients to ward off and avert the calamity?
for it can be termed nothing else.  Every
woman interested in her country and her
own individual rights must be roused to
serious thought upon the action of the Sen-
ate in the passing of this amendment.  It
is perhaps true that the House will never go
so far as to commit the same error, but that
does not lessen the heavy responsibility taken
upon themselves by the men who voted for this
prohibitory law.
	Section 7 of this bill abolishes woman suffrage
in this Territory.  This is the little insect that
will sting sharply the men who voted for this
amendment, for although there are many suffra-
gists that hate "Mormonism" and the "Mor-
mons" as much as these same Senators, yet labor-
ing as they are and have been to obtain the bal-
lot, they will fight to the last any measure which
proposed to disfranchise women who have had
the right of franchise bestowed upon them, es
pecially as they are well aware all women are
already deprived of this right, who have ever at
any time been plural wives.  Senator Hoar has
made a great blunder in allowing that section
to come before the Senate, and he will lose cas[-]e
with his own party, and be censured and re-
proached for this egrigious folly of thus over-
shooting the mark; in other words he has acted
against his own avowed principles of right and
justice.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Woman's Journal published in Boston,
dated June 21st, in reference to the vote upon the
Utah Bill in the Senate, after giving particulars
and names of men who voted yeas and nays,
says:
	"It now goes to the House. If this bill, with
the anti suffrage clause in it, should become law,
it will be a shameful injustice. Righteous
and equitable legislation directed against, poly-
gamy should be welcomed by all who have the
good of women at heart; but a law like this,
manifestly and glaringly unjust, does not de-
serve to succeed."


WOMEN'S HOME MISSIONARY
WORK.

	Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elmina Taylor, and
Louie Felt left this city Wednesday morning,
June 12th, to make a tour through Millard
Stake, and hold meetings with the Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
Traveled 400 miles and held twenty-two meet-
ings. At Leamington Sister Felt organized a
Primary Association on the 12th inst., with
Mrs. Mary Pay, President, and at Fillmore a re-
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. was effected,
and Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen was appointed Presi-
dent.
	The sisters visited and held three meetings in
each settlement in the Stake except Leaming-
ton and Oak City, where only two meetings
were held. Sister Elizabeth Yates, of Scipio,
met the sisters at Leamington, and accompan-
ied them in their visit through the Stake. The
bishops everywhere were interested in the work
they were laboring to accomplish, and gave
them a hearty welcome, rendering them all the
assistance in their power. President Hinckley
was also much gratified at meeting with them
at Deseret, and also at Filmore, and urged them
to come again.
	Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith; Margaret P.
Young and Elizabeth Howard went to Grants-
ville on Friday, June 13, to attend the Sister's
Conference of Tooele Stake, which commenced
on the 14th and closed on the 15th. There was
a Primary Fair held also, which was a very suc-
cessful affair, and the little children's work,
much of it, was very artistic and particularly
well executed.
	On Sunday, June 15th, a special meeting
was held at Granger Ward, for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society in the ward, which
has only recently been set off and fully organ-
ized. Bishop D. McCrae presided over the
meating. His Counselor, John Banden, acted
as secretary. Opening prayer by Counselor
Abram Sorenson. The Bishop proceeded to or-
ganize by placing before the meeting the names
of Sister Mary E. Porter as President; Sister
Elizabeth Park, First Counselor; Sister Mary A.
Bess, Second Counselor; Sister Catharine Mak-
ay, Secretary; Sister Betsey Hall, Assistant
Secretary; Sister Phyldes Warr, Treasurer. The
nominations were unanimously approved. The
officers were set apart by the Bishop and his
Counselors. The meeting was afterwards ad-
dressed by Sisters B. W. Smith, M. W. Wilcox
and E. B. Wells, who were present by invita-
tion. The sisters who had just been appointed
to office each expressed a willingness to perform
the duty assigned, and try to magnify the office
to which they had been called.
	The Seventeenth annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society at South Cottonwood was held June
17th, at the Ward meeting house at 10
a.m., which was well filled with sisters; a
few brethren were also in the audience.
	Mrs. Jeanette B. Cahoon, a very able and effi-
cient president, who has filled that office from
its organization, presided, and great credit is due
her for the active as well as the spiritual labor
she has accomplished during that time.
	The minutes and reports were very good; Sis-
ter Harriet Ann Walker is a competent Secre-
tary, though she has not been long in the office.
Sisters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and Dr. Ro-
mania B Pratt, who had been invited to attend,
each addressed the meeting, though Sister Eliza
occupied most of the time, speaking upon
union, the duties of teachers, the importance of
their work, the necessity of progression the de-
sire we have to know more of our Father and
mother in heaven; referred to our consenting to
come here and take up our abode, forgetting the


past, in order, to prove our integrity to our hea-
venly parents, and exhorted the sisters to study
the word of God and seek to draw near to Him;
and gave much good instruction on various mat-
ters.
	Sister M. A. Rawlins occupied a few mo-
ments and entreated the sisters to attend their
meetings.
	At 2 p.m. the Y. L. M. I. A. convened at the
same place, and after the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Eliza addressed the young
ladies. She urged them to lay a foundation for
future life and happiness, by becoming good
house keepers; entreated them to be practically
useful, as well as to learn accomplishments, and
to prepare themselves for the great work that
lay before them; attend to their meetings, and
seek to attain to excellence in all things truly
noble and elevating.
	Sister E. B. Wells was the next speaker, her
remarks were mostly in reference to the all im-
portant matter of understanding their own or-
ganization, and what was essential to life and
health, and the best methods of attaining to the
full development of every faculty with which
God had endowed them for the fulfilment of
their probation here on earth.
	Sister Jane Freeze made a few remarks very
suggestive to the young ladies, and was followed
by Sister Maggie C. Shipp, who bore a faithful
testimony to what she had received in regard to
the truth. Her words were earnest and her
manner most emphatic.
	After these sisters had finished speaking, Sis-
ter Eliza R. S. Smith made some explanations
in regard to a reorganization of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and presented the resignation of the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Annie Thompson, to be voted upon.
The resignation was accepted, and the following
officers were proposed, and a unanimous vote
was carried, Sister Eliza officiating in reorganiz-
ing:
	Isabella Benbow Evison, President; Annie E.
Labun and Annie Thompson, Counselors; Rosa
A. Kelch, Secretary; M. Antoinette Cahoon,
Assistant Secretary; Anna Smith, Treasurer.
	Bishop Rawlins addressed the young ladies;
told them those who preside must never tire if
they expect to be successful. The Bishop and
his Counselor set the officers apart. Meeting
adjourned for one year. Benediction by Coun-
selor Wheeler.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


[Column 1]
LETTER XIII.

LONDON AND PARIS.

	We arrived in London last night, after a long
and somewhat tiresome ride from Paris, which,
however, was much more pleasant than we ex-
pected it would be, for we had only two hours on
the English Channel, and that without one
touch of sea-sickness. Some of our compan-
ions were not nearly so well blessed as we, and
the slight unsteady motion of the boat quite up-
set them.
	You, I know, are anxious to hear more of our
visit in Paris, so I wont trouble you with any-
thing further about our journey to, or arrival in
London, but will try to go back to our first few
days in the glorious French capital, if my mem-
ory will serve me well enough.
	When I last wrote it was a rainy, disagreeable
day (excuse reference to the weather), but the
next day, Tuesday, was sunny and bright, and
we started out early for the Louvre, notwith-
standing our guide book recommends a prelim-
inary drive the first day, and the rainy days to
be reserved for the picture galleries. As we
were not weather prophets, and could not tell
when the rainy days would come, if come they
must, and as we took a preliminary walk the

[Column 2]
first day and located ourselves and the sights we
were most anxious to see, we decided to follow
our own inclinations, and visit those places
which held most interest for us first, in case
something should occur to shorten our stay, so,
as I before stated, we started first for the Louvre.
This is the most elegant palace in France, and
I think in the world. It was commenced some
few centuries ago, and each succeeding monarch
has endeavored to complete it, but it still re-
mains unfinished. At length when the original
design was almost carried out the Communists
attempted to destroy the whole edifice, but suc-
ceeded in their dreadful design only to burn one
wing; that, however, contained the valuable
library, and was an irreparable loss. After a
brief survey of the outside of the palace we en-
tered the picture gallery, and wandered from
one hall to another in admiration of this most
valuable collection.
	The Italian masters are exceedingly well re-
presented here, but so [---] I have seen, Dres-
den possesses the gem of Italian art, in Raphael's
Sistine Madonna. I cannot begin to enumerate
or describe the beautiful pictures of this gallery,
but can only say they all are most wonderful
and rare gems of art, and gave me the most ex-
quisite pleasure to have the privilege of seeing
them. The principal pride of the Louvre, how-
ever, is the collection of statuary, and the price-
less treasure is the Venus of Milo. It is a work
of art one wants to see once, only to long to see
again. You would hardly believe such power
of expression, such beauty of form, could be
wrought from a piece of marble. Our first day
in the Louvre we occupied in seeing all that was
possible, and locating the different objects, so
that our next visit we could spend in the rooms
containing the principal treasures. It took us a
long time the first day, and we left much fati-
gued. The place is so large that they say it
takes two hours to walk through the rooms with-
out stopping, so you can fancy how long it would
take one to look at the innumerable pictures,
statues, jewels, models, etc., that the palace con-
tains.
	Much of our time, and I believe our pleasant-
est moments, were spent in this gallery, but we
also visited the other art museums; among the
first the Luxembourg, with the gardens laid out
in the old Renaissance style. With these we were
particularly delighted, but with the art collec-
tion most dreadfully disappointed. The muse-
um contains only works of modern masters, and
they seemed to me wholly unworthy a place in
any museum. However, as I don't profess to b
an art critic, and people nowadays seem to ad-
mire these glaring sketches, perhaps I had bet-
ter not attempt to say anything further on the
subject. The palace was filled with students,
copying and studying the style of the modern
masters. One of our last days we went to Ver-
sailles. Oh! how I wish you could have been
with us. It was a most delightful day, and as
we walked round the old magnificent garden,
with its lakes, forests, fountains, statues,
orangery, terraces and flowers, I thought how
much you would enjoy it all, and said we could
never get mother back to the city if she once
were in this garden.
	The palace itself from the outside is not very
imposing, but the gardens are the most beauti-
ful in France, and the palace and grounds to-
gether cost the court of Louis XIV the fabulous
sum of a thousand million francs. The palace
is decorated almost entirely with portraits of the
different French rulers, and pictures illustrating
the history of the glories of France, so here, for
the first time, after our arrival in Paris, we saw
some honor shown to Napoleon; room after
room was hung with pictures of his battles and
scenes of his life. Many pictures of himself

[Column 3]
and of Maria Louise, but only one of the Em
press Josephine. Little honor, it seems to me,
do the French show to those to whom honor is
due.
	The most magnificent hall in the palace is one
extending along the east side and looking over
the garden from seventeen different windows.
In this hall King Wilhelm, of Prussia, was made
Emperor of Germany, when the Germans were
in possession of the palace in '71. Opening from
this room towards the south side is a beautiful
suite of rooms, which have been used as the
chambers and drawing rooms of Marie Antion-
ette, Marie Theresa and Marie Leczinska. We
wandered, rather accidentally, into a hall which
led into the apartments of Marie Antoinette.
This is the only part of the palace not open free
to visitors, and shown by guides. The guide in
waiting hailed us and ushered us in. Such lit-
tle gems of rooms they were; the whole suite
scarcely larger than one of the other rooms of
the palace, and filled with rare little treasures
of this unhappy queen. They were draped in
pale blue, orange and red brocaded silks. Every-
thing, even the bath-room, unique, elegant and
beautiful; but in one was a mirror where one
could see herself without a head, thus showing
the fate of the fair and beautiful Marie Antoin-
ette. The pretty little rooms remind one of the
exquisite taste and elegance of their possessor;
but also bring a feeling of sadness as we think
of her dreadful fate, and then the other horrors
of the revolution. Not a palace or a beautiful
place in Paris but recalls either some horror of
the revolution, or of the Commune of '71, and
their monuments and fountains, with all their
sparkling beauty, fail to hide the terrible scenes
of these times, or to wash from history the
stains of blood.
	Of course we visited the tomb of Napoleon,
and the Hotel des Invalides. This was one of
our most important days. The church of the In-
valides really consists of two parts; the Dome, and
the church of St. Louis. The sarcophagus is placed
in the former in a deep made crypt, and the
pale blue light issuing from the stained windows
above gives a most solemn aspect to the place.
We stayed here some time, thinking of the vic-
tories of Napoleon as they were recalled by the
sixty faded flags, which are placed around his
tomb, and left rather reluctantly for the Jardin
des Plan'e, where we spent the remainder of the
day.
	Our visit was a most delightful one, and we
enjoyed every minute of it, still I did not
leave Paris reluctantly.
	Yesterday I stopped writing to go and hear
the Rev. Dr. Parker, in Holborn Church, and
after that we visited Westminster Abbey. Of
this, however, I will say no more at present.
This morning I am going to the Tower. John
Q. is well acquainted with London, and
shows me around like one who had always lived
here. A week from to-morrow we expect to
sail for home, and then only think how short a
time and we shall all be together again. I for-
got to mention that we saw Longfellow's bust
in Westminster, in the Poet's Corner just to
the left of Dryden's monument. It is a very fine
piece of work, and says, "Placed here by the
English admirers of an American poet."
	Much love for all, father, mother, sisters,
brothers, and precious little Q.
								ANNIE.


Y. L. M. I. A. BRIGHAM CITY.

	On the 11th of June, with Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, left this city to attend the Young Ladies'
Conference and Fair of Box Elder Stake, in
Brigham City. The weather was delightful and
the orchards and farms all along the route pre-


sented a most charming picture. After leaving
the city with its bustle and noise we enjoyed
the ride through the beautiful farms and green
fields along the way.
	Upon arrive we were received and enter-
tained by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President, and
were soon refreshed and ready to attend the
meeting in the afternoon. After the usu-
al exercises very interesting and beneficial
remarks were made by Sister Howard, fol-
lowed by a sister from Willard and many of the
young ladies.
	It indeed filled one with amazement to hear
these beautiful young ladies bear such testimon-
ies, and exhibit such knowledge, intelligence
and self control. I feel sure it would encourage
some of the young ladies, who never take part
in these associations, if they could have heard
the many beautiful thoughts that were express-
ed that day. It at once proves the benefits that
can be obtained from these meetings. They
enable us to build each other up, and develop
those faculties within us, which we knew not of
ourselves.
	Closing remarks were made by the President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., after which the meeting
was adjourned.
	In the evening we had the pleasure of attend-
ing the fair. I may truly say I was surprised
to see the excellent taste displayed in the ar-
rangement and in the articles exhibited, and the
willingness of the young ladies to assist in all
good works. Some of the articles were really
works of art, and all showed the industry and
wonderful energy of the young ladies. Home-
made hats just as pretty as could be purchased
at any of our millinery shops, trimmed in ex-
quisite taste, so[-]a cushions, baskets, netting,
bead work, embroidery of the finest kind on
homemade linen mats, tidles of all descriptions,
slippers, wax work, all kinds of beautiful needle
work, artificial flowers, collars, drawn work,
[---], bed spreads of drawn and netted work,
carved wood, quilts, netted curtains, pillow
s[-]ams, laces and collars, sketches in penci[-], and
oil paintings, and so many beautiful and use[-]ul
articles that it would be impossible to mention
or do justice in describing them. The Indians
from Thistle Valley sent some very nice articles,
showing that the work among them has not
been in vain. One of the young Indian women
sent some needle work; a baby's white dress
[-]ucked and trimmed with embroidery. Other ar-
ticles, such as woollen stockings, aprons and
everything in the way of bead embroidery,
purses, cushions, hand satchel, moccasins, and
all were quite handsome; also copy books filled
with their writing, and it would do well for
some of us to practice until we could form our
letters as well, for they were excellent.
	The fair was conducted by the young ladies,
and the contributors were all from the stake.
The lower end of the room was fitted up for re-
freshments, where they served the most delicious
strawberries, ice cream, cake and fruits. Alto-
gether the fair was a thorough success, and re-
flects great credit on the President and young
ladies
	May we have many more such meetings and
fairs, and may God bless all those who are seek-
ing and working for the good of these societies
and associations. I enjoyed my visit very much
indeed, and have a great admiration for those
young ladies who have shown such nobility and
courage to meet together for mutual improve-
ment.						LOUIE WELLS.


22	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FORTY-EIGHTH CONGRESS.

SENATE.

	Washington, 18.—Consideration of the Utah
bill was resumed. Hoar offered an amend-


ment to strike out the clause abolishing woman
suffrage in Utah; rejected, 17 ayes, 34 noes.
Those voting in the affirmative were Blair,
Bower, Brown, Conger, Cullom, Dawes, Dolph,
George, Hoar, Lapham, Manderson, Mitchell,
Palmer, Pike, Sherman, Vance and Wilson.
	Brown explained his vote by saying he was
personally altogether opposed to woman suf-
frage, but regarding it as an entirely local mat-
ter: and as it had been established in a territory
he would vote against the United States gov-
ernment interfering with it. The bill then
passed. 33 yeas, 15 nays, as follows, yeas: Al-
lison, Beck, Bower, Cameron (Wisconsin), Col-
quist, Conger, Cullom, Dawes, Dolph, Ed-
munds, Fair, Frye, Garland, Harrison, Ingalls,
Jackson, Jones (Fla.), Jones (Nev.), Lapham,
McMillan, McPherson, Mahone, Manderson,
Miller (Cal.), Mitchell, Merrill, Palmer, Pike,
Pugh, Riddleberger, Sawyer, Voorhees and
Wilson, 33. Nays, Bayard, Brown, Coke,
George, Hampton, Jones, Kenna, Lamar,Max-
ey, Morgan, Pendleton, Ransom, Vance, Vest
and Walker, 15.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO MRS. B. A. EVANS,
LEHI.

A CONSOLATORY COMMUNICATION.

POSTGASSE 36, Bern, Switzerland,
			April 29, 1884.

	Dear Sister—I trust you will excuse my pre-
sumption in addressing you, with whom I have
not the pleasure of an acquaintance at all; and
though it is far from my desire at the present
time to recall the sad and harrowing circum-
stances of the past few weeks in your grief-
stricken feelings, yet I consider it no less a
duty than a pleasure to make a brief report to
you of the manner in which your lamented son
and our sincerely-mourned brother conducted
himself during the short mission he was per-
mitted to fill in our midst.
	In obedience to the call made of him at the
October Conference, 1883, he left his home and
beloved ones for a mission in Switzerland and
Germany, and reached this city, after short
visits with his fellow Elders in London and
Paris, on Sunday morning the 11th of Novem-
ber. In our evening meeting of that day he
bore his testimony to the truth of the work he
had traveled so far to proclaim, and expressed
the buoyant hope that he would soon be able to
talk to the people in their own language.
	The next day I gave the Elders their ap-
pointments to the different fields of labor, also
such instructions as I thought appropriate. At
the close of the meeting Brother Evans re-
quested that we administer to him, as he felt a
lassitude and weariness, also a cold and other
symptoms of an approaching fever. This we
did unitedly. Next morning, Tuesday the 13th,
had been selected for the departure of the
brethren, but as his journey was so long—to
Berlin—I endeavored to persuade him to stay
a few days longer with us until he had com-
pletely recovered. He preferred to go, how-
ever, his ambition to begin work being so great
that he could not feel comfortable in remain-
ing after having received his appointment. Be-
fore leaving them that night (the brethren all
slept in the office) I got him to promise me
that if he did not feel better in the morning
he would not undertake the journey, and so
bade him good night. When I came next
morning he was not present, and I was inform-
ed that he felt better and had decided to go
with the others. After he reached Berlin I
heard once or twice from him personally, also
from his companions who came to Conference
at Christmas and reported him then as getting
better. Ten days later I was shocked to hear
from the Elder who went there to join him,
that his fever was still unbroken and that a
change was imperatively necessary.

[Column 2]
	I wrote to Prest. Smith at Liverpool at once
and he summoned him to that place, whither
he proceeded, accompanied by one of our El-
ders, by the next steamer. Prest. Smith wrote
me twice that he was improving, and then I
read in the Star that he had gone home. The
next news was the mournful and wholly unex-
pected intelligence that he was no more. This
was a great blow to us all, particularly those
who had traveled here with him and learned to
know him.
	He showed himself a remarkably quick and
intellectual spirit, the possessor of unusual
ability and energy, and, had he been spared,
would undoubtedly have proven himself one of
the best missionaries ever sent out. His heart
seemed to be all in the work placed upon him,
and he had no rest, even when sick, unless he
could be studying his books. He would have
grasped the language in a very short time, and
what was still better he was always able to give
a scriptural and reasonable ground for the
hope he had within him. But He who rules
the universe felt to call him hence, and we,
his sorrowing friends, have to subject ourselves
to the decree.
	Happy is he who left us, for his race though
short was well and nobly run; and happy may
we be, who remain, if we are able to say from
the depths of our bruised yet willing and obe-
dient hearts: "Thy will be done; the Lord giv-
eth, the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name
of the Lord."
	I feel myself incompetent to offer any words
of consolation; but I assure you, dear Sister
Evans, that my prayers have been offered up
and will still be that the comforting spirit, of
whom it is written that it robs death of its
sting and the grave of its victory, may be be-
stowed upon you, and that you and your be-
reaved family may feel the near and hallowed
presence of Him who has promised to wipe
away all tears from the eyes of His people. And
may the bright example of him who is gone to
join his departed loved ones and his brethren,
ever remain as a shining beacon for the young
men of Israel, that they may ever be found
ready warriors for the cause of truth to assist
in putting its opposing hordes to fight and its
enemies under their feet.
	My wife and my associates here join me in
expressing our condolence, and our sincere wish
that in this hour of trial the friend of the
afflicted may be near to comfort and sustain
you. With the kindest regards, I have the hon-
or to subscribe myself,
		Your Brother in the Gospel,
						JOHN Q. CANNON.


FROM A GENTILE.

		APPLE GROVE, Ala., Feb. 15, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am a regular reader of your valuable pa-
per. Although I live away out here in Ala-
bama, I know something of the doctrine and
teaching and practices of that persecuted peo-
ple called Mormons. I have never been among
them, but have read several books and papers
that give me a pretty correct knowledge of
the Mormon character, and I admire their
magnanimity, self-denial, industry, and for-
bearance towards their enemies. They have
built up a great State in the barren regions of
the Rocky Mountains, under the most unfavor-
able circumstances, and suffered many priva-
tions and hardships for the sake of religious
liberty; and still they can't be let alone. And
I find from reading newspapers from the other
way that their worst enemies are of that class
spoken of in the Bible as the salt of the earth
that has lost its savor, and said to be worthless
and good for nothing but to be trampled under
the feet of men. And God in His wisdom
may do that way for them yet, for they seem to
have lost the copy and standard of righteous-


ness, and the spirit of the Gospel as taught by
Jesus Christ. This is the way it appears to one
outside who is not biased by creeds. But from
my knowledge of the Bible and the Mormons,
they have more of the true spirit of Christiani-
ty than any order of people I know. Why
not let them alone? Is it on account of their
plural marriage system? It does look like the
ladies ought to be allowed to contract for them-
selves in the all-important matter of marriage,
and let the laws of God as revealed in the book
of human nature regulate things.
	Now, Mrs. Editor, if this is worth printing
in the EXPONENT, let it come, I am not
ashamed to own the opinion I have formed
about the Mormons.
					JOHN M. RUSSELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 23


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We live in a somewhat out-of-the-way place
and I suppose you do not hear from us very
often. Our Relief Society is in a prosperous
condition; it was organized in January, 1883,
and has continued to improve since that time.
Our worthy President, Sister Catherine Hatch,
is doing all she can to instruct us in the great
latter-day work, which is still rolling on. The
Lord says that man cannot stop its progress,
and it seems that His words are being fulfilled
every day of our lives. The whole world is
arrayed against us as a people, and they are
always planning something for our overthrow,
but we still continue to grow and improve. It
seems to me we ought to be very thankful
to think that the Lord has enlightened our
minds enough to comprehend the truth of His
work. We are blest above all other people, if
the world is against us. I feel that the Lord
is mightier than all, and if we are faithful He
will bring us off conquerors.
	We have a Y. L. M. I. A. here; it was or-
ganized in Feb., 1884, and it is doing very
well, considering the short time it has been or-
ganized. The young ladies deserve credit for
punctual attendance.
	Our Sunday School and Primary is in a
prosperous condition, and the young are pre-
paring themselves for a noble and great work.
Their privileges of learning are far ahead of
what their parents had. My prayers are that we
may all continue to improve and be thankful
for the blessings that we enjoy. I wish the EX-
PONENT success.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									L. L. S.
	Woodruff, Arizona, May 1st, 1884.


[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

RICHFIELD.

	Minutes of the Eighteenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake,
held at Richfield, March 14th, 1884, President
Elizabeth Bean presiding. Usual opening ex-
ercises. President Bean said she was pleased
to feel that a good spirit had met with us, even
though none of the leading sisters were with
us.
	Minutes of the previous conference read and
accepted, also the statistical and financial re-
port. Five societies were verbally reported to
be in a prospering condition, and doing what
they could towards assisting in rolling on the
latter-day work, and other good instructions of-
fered by the Presidents of the Societies.
	Sister Thirza Thurber felt to encourage the
sisters to live near to God, to thoroughly study
the principles of the Gospel and learn all we
could, to set a good example before our child-
ren; bore testimony to the good spirit one felt
when working in the temple. Referred to Bro.

[Column 2]
Grant's vision; hoped God would bless and aid
us.
	Sister Jane Spencer felt well to meet in con-
ference; thought we should store our minds with
useful knowledge, that we might be enabled to
converse intelligently, and teach our children
to be good and praiseworthy.
	Prest. Bean was glad to hear of the societies
being so willing to perform the duties assigned
them; desired the sisters to be united and not
allow nationality to separate them into classes;
desired them to visit the Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A.; appointed some to go as missionaries to
these associations. Said the Lord would help
us if we would try to help ourselves; we should
work together and love one another.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction.
	2 p.m. Singing, prayer offered by Bishop
G. W. Bean, singing. Two other societies re-
ported as doing well, being united and anxious
to perform the missions assigned them.
	Sisters E. Bean and C. A. Hunt spoke upon
the subject of reports, desiring the secretaries
to study the subject; gave some instructions and
illustrations upon the subject.
	Bros. Powell, Poulson and Bean encouraged
and instructed us in regard to our duties and
the course we should pursue. Bore testimony
to the noble purpose for which the societies
were organized, and the great good they had
done; commended their labors, energy and
faithfulness.
	Bro. Marsing encouraged the societies to go
forward in their labors, train their children in
the principles of the Gospel; explained some
good points in Apostle Grant's vision.
	Bishop Joseph S. Horne felt highly pleased
with what he had heard; could see a great im-
provement; we had no time to idle. Discour-
aged back-biting—by indulging in it we do
wrong to ourselves and others.
	Sister Bean made a few closing and interest-
ing remarks. Conference adjourned until the
12th of June; 1884. Singing, Benediction by
Joseph S. Horne.
					ANNIE L. BEAN,
						Asst. Secretary.

GENTILE VALLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were organized as a Relief Society of
Mormon Ward on September 3rd, 1881, Sister
Sarah S. Richards, President; Ann Hale and
Anna Folkmann, Counselors. Since that time
we have done our best offering our mite wher-
ever it was most needed; we have donated to
the Logan Temple, also to the Deseret Hospi-
tal. We have some wheat on hand, and the
sisters all have a good spirit and try to go to
meeting as often as possible, though the people
are so scattered, and the men at present are so
busy with their summer's work, it is impossible
for the sisters to attend regularly. Apostle Mo-
ses Thatcher, Bro. Wm. Hendricks and Bro.
Parkinson held two meetings here last week,
giving the people some very good advice; they
appointed Bro. John B. Thatcher, Bishop, Alma
Hale and Arthur D. Young, Counselors, our
former Bishop, Solomon H. Hale being promo-
ted to the office of First Counselor to the Pres-
ident of the Idaho Stake.
	Our crops are looking well, and although
times are unusually dull, and money scarce, yet
we anticipate more prosperous times in the fu-
ture, and hope for the blessings that seem to
follow the saints generally.
	I will close, wishing you every success.
				MELLIE PECK, Secretary.

MONTPELIER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The fifth anniversary of the organization of
our Primary Association took place to-day,

[Column 3]
May 31st, 1884, in the following order: Meet-
ing of the Association at 10 a.m., with a large
attendance of children, and a goodly number
of the parents, also the ward authorities.
	Meeting called to order by President Ann
Bunney, singing by the children: prayer by
Counselors David Osborne, singing; the Secre-
tary then read the report of the association for
the year ending May 21st, 1884, which was
very creditable, showing the number of meet-
ings, number of members enrolled, average at-
tendance, etc.; the time was then occupied for
one hour with recitations, songs, dialogues, etc.;
when Counselor F. M. Winters, D. Osborne,
and C. H. Bridges each occupied a short time
in making such remarks as were calculated to
encourage the members of the association.
	President Bunney then announced to the
children that we would have a half hour re-
cess for the purpose of arranging a bounteous
picnic.
	At 2 p.m. the benches were carried out and
the little folks were permitted to participate in
the merry dance, which was a great source of
enjoyment to them. After dancing a couple of
hours President Bunney and her counselors, as-
sisted by others of the sisters, treated the
children to candy, cakes and nuts, which the
children of course enjoyed.
	At 6 p.m. our amusements were brought to
a close, when all went home rejoicing.
	Our association numbers 132 enrolled mem-
bers, and the attendance was on this occasion
136. We have excellent meetings, and our
President and counselors are doing all in thier
power to advance our association in the scale
of intelligence.
				MARY M. OSBORNE,
							Secretary.

INVERARY.

	Our Primary Association here in this small
settlement numbers 115 members, and there is
generally a full attendance. We had a very
enjoyable time on the 7th of June. In the
forenoon there were speeches, recitations and
songs; all acquitted themselves well. The fixed
attention of both people and children during
all the exercises was pleasing.
	In the afternoon the little feet kept time in
the merry dance. Perfect order prevailed, and
all went home satisfied that the rising genera-
tion of Inverary would be an honor to Zion.
		EMMA E. JENSON, President,
		FLORA A. RUSSELL,
		ANNIE HYATT,		Counselors.

CEDAR BUTTE, ONEIDA COUNTY, IDAHO.

DEAR EDITOR:

	Owing to our isolated situation we see but
few communications from this part of the
country in your valuable paper, hence the lib-
erty I take in penning a few lines to you, hop-
ing you will be kind enough to give them space
in your paper.
	We are near 250 miles north of Salt Lake
City, and notwithstanding the visits of the
Apostles are few and far between, the Latter-
day Saints here are doing as well as in many
of the older settlements, where they have
much better chances. On the 2nd of April
the sisters of this place met and completed the
organization of our Relief Society, with Sister
Mary A. Green. President; Jeanette Pool and
Amina A. Stephens, Counselors; Mary A.
Shippeu, Secretary; and Harriet Bybee, Assis-
tant Secretary. Our Sunday Schools are well
attended and ably managed, the Improvement
Associations are up to the times.
	On the evening of the 21st the young folks
had a grand jollification under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of this place, consisting of
dialogues, recitations, songs, duets, trios, quar-
tettes, etc.; the little ones performed their parts
splendidly and in a manner which did credit


to the management and showed great care in
training. It would be useless to attempt to tell
all that took place and describe how all per-
formed and who did best, for all did excellent-
ly; it might not be out of the way to make men-
tion of the song, "I'll be a little Mormon,"
sung by Miss Sadie Stephens, aged nine years,
and accompanied by her brother, Wm. W.,
aged thirteen, with the violin. The piece was
rendered in splendid style and elicited great
applause. Rhoda Bybee gave a recitation
which produced much merriment, as it was
rendered in a style entirely peculiar to herself.
"Kind words can never die" was rendered by
seven little girls aged from six to eleven years,
and their sweet voices blending with the notes
of the organ produced strains that were truly
akin to heaven.
	The evening passed agreeably, pleasantly,
and profitably, and all went to their homes
wiser if not better. Wishing the EXPONENT
every success,
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
				EVA OLSEN, Secretary.

FIRST WARD, SALT LAKE CITY.

	The young ladies of the First Ward held
their yearly meeting on Wednesday, April
16th, 1884. Some very interesting remarks
were made by Sisters Zina Young, Elmina Tay-
lor, Mary Freeze, Elizabeth Howard, Sarah
Graham, Margaret Steel and Annie Brown.
About forty sisters met at the house of Presi-
dent Graham and partook of a bounteous re-
past, preparatory to starting to meeting.
				FLORA MUSSER, Secretary.

FIRST WARD, PROVO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the First Ward of
Provo is in a flourishing condition. There are
seventy names enrolled as members. Average
attendance between thirty and forty. We have
a paper called the Diadem once in two weeks,
which the young ladies write pieces for. Our
President, Pauline Hardy, is always punctual
at her meetings, and tries to make them inter-
esting as well as instructive; in fact all the
young ladies are up and awake to their duties,
and bear faithful testimonies to this great work
in which we, as children of God, are engaged.
	In financial affairs we are not behind the
other associations; we have donated $50 to the
Stake Tabernacle, also some to the Salt Lake
Temple and Deseret Hospital, and are now go-
ing to help build the Brigham Young Acad-
emy by donation. The EXPONENT comes regu-
larly to hand, and we are always happy to re-
ceive it.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPON-
ENT and the best interests of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			MARY STEWART, Secretary.


24	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER EVELINE MATTHEWS
SHORT.

	Sister Eveline Matthews Short, beloved wife of Au-
gustus Short, died May 17th, 1884, after giving birth to
a daughter which was still-born. Sister Short was
born about the year 1852, somewhere between Utah and
California. She belonged to one of the tribes west of
Utah, as her parents were Lamanites. She was stolen
from her parents by the Walker Utes, when about three
years old and taken into the southern part of Utah,
where she was adopted into the family of Bishop Grover,
of Kanarrah, and received a good education. She was a
faithful and true Latter-day Saint, and died with the as-
surance of a glorious resurrection with the redeemed of
the Lord.
	The funeral services were held at the North Ogden
meeting house, on the 19th of May, 1884, in the presence
of a large number of friends who had come to pay the
last tribute of respect to their departed sister. The ser-
vices were conducted under the direction of Elder Robt.
G. Berrett. After the usual opening exercises Elde


Amos Maycock delivered an appropriate address. The
speaker rejoiced in the Gospel which placed all on an
equality. There is no distinction made and no such
thing as a special privileged class in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Elder Maycock further referred to circumstances
surrounding the early life of our departed sister, who
was a descendant of the Lamanites, and spoke at length
upon the promises that were contained in the Book of
Mormon concerning the remnant of people who once
inhabited this land, and of the important part they are
to take in this great work when a nation will be born
in a day. They will not waver in their faith as we do.
	Elder R. G. Berrett had only a short acquaintance with
Sister Short, but he was satisfied she was a good, true
and faithful Latter-day Saint. No one could have more
joy and satisfaction in the Gospel. She did not covet
the wealth of the world; her whole soul was wrapped
up in her religion, her greatest desire being to know
whether the Book of Mormon was a true record. In
answer to prayer and fasting the Lord gave her a testi-
mony of its truth. Her wish was to raise a family, but
in the providence of the Lord she has been called away
in the bloom of womanhood.

	Many more good things were said suggestive of the
regard in which our dead sister was held, and also
words of condolence were spoken to the husband and
relatives. The cortege was then formed and the re-
mains of the departed followed to their last resting-
place, where the coffin, which was very tastefully decor-
ated with wreathes of flowers, was carefully deposited.
—OGDEN HERALD.

RESOLUTIONS.

	The following Resolutions of Respect to our beloved
sister were unanimously adopted and sustained by the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of Vir-
gen City:
	Whereas, God, in His infinite wisdom, has called from
our midst our sister, who was greatly beloved and res-
pected by us all for her kind and gentle disposition, her
pure, virtuous and exemplary life, faithful labors in our
Society, and the many good qualities she possessed,
	Therefore, Be it Resolved, That we, the members of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Virgen City, do deeply mourn the
loss of our beloved sister, Eveline Short, and that we
condole with her husband and friends in their great loss;
but while we mingle our tears with theirs, we would
point with joy to the hope of a glorious resurrection
which all true Latter-day Saints possess.
	And, Be it Resolved, That we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her husband.
					ELEANOR OWENS President,
					BETSY A. PARKER,
					AGNES RICHARDS, Counselors.


"SUCCESS."

	We call the attention of the ladies to the
fact, that Bro. Thomas Harris has been for
some time past following the business of polish-
ing piano, organs and furniture of every des-
cription.
	He attends to all work of polishing pianos
and organs for D. O. Calder, and is fully com-
petent to do whatever may be entrusted to him
by those needing his services.
	Any orders left at D.O. Calder's music store,
or P. O. Box 159, will receive prompt atten-
tion,


﻿SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN CODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOOD.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1884.	No. 4.


TO FRIENDS AT HOME.

I am alone to-night—
			My tent is snug and home-like, and
The moon shines sweetly in the little
Window facing toward the east,
And oft I wonder if 'tis aught like
Abraham's tent we read of in his wanderings.
'Tis pitched near by an ancient ruin,
And I have gathered relics of the sleeping
Past, which wakens thought, and pictures
Pass before me, which I would that I could
Paint for you.

		Is this the land where Christ came to
"His sheep which were not of this fold—"
Here where the sign was given of His
Royal birth, and that dread sign of
Darkness which foretold His death
And suffering upon the cross,
Here where He taught His people the
Pure principles of heaven, and blessed
The three that they might tarry here
On earth until He came again?
But it is not of this that I would speak
To-night; let the past rest until the time
When earth and seas shall render up
Their hidden treasures, when sleeping
Dust shall rise and break the silence
Of the tomb.

		It is of you, dear friends, that I
Would speak to-night; yes, I had letters
Come from home to-day, and other tokens,
Too, of love and friendship from the
Dear ones there.

		And now you seem to come before me as
I saw you last, ere starting on my
Wanderings; my heart is full to-night,
And fervent is the prayer that God
Will bless and keep you safe
Until we meet again.
My past has been as bright as friendship
Pure could make it; its power has
Made the silver lining to the
Clouds that rose.

				Here in this far off land it
Seems I now begin another page in life.
What will the record be?
I know not, but I pray the God,
Whose power I've felt through all
The past, will guide me still;
I stand upon the ashes of the past
And long to know its history;
Around me is a people He has
Said shall be redeemed, restored,
And made "white and delightsome."
They've fallen low, but His all powerful
Arm can lift them up.
Oh, when will man learn what dead
Sea fruits grow on sin's blighting tree,
Learn wisdom from its record in the past,
And shun its fearful power.
There's work to do for all,
And none need be at ease in Zion,
For our God's Saints must help
Redeem, restore and build again
Her places made so desolate.
But lo, time onward flies;
It rears the midnight hour as
Here I sit and ponder, thinking,
Thinking, until thoughts run wild;
There is so much within the past,
The present and the future, to arouse
The sleeping senses and to stir the
Soul even into its depths,
But I must say good night—
Think of me in your gatherings,
Where so often I have mingled with
You, and those glad, social hours
My heart can ne'er forget, nor
Bear to be forgotten.
									S. E. R.


[Column 1]
THE MORAL LAW AND LIBERTY.

	I believe that that state or nation which in
its legislation conforms most strictly to the mor-
al law laid down by the Creator Himself will
be most blest and most prosperous. No
member of a Congress, no member of a legis-
lature of a state has a moral right to enact laws
in the teeth of the Divine law. We, as a peo-
ple, declare unto the world that the order of
plural marriage is a divine law, given unto this
generation for the exaltation and elevation of
the human family; that the Lord, the mighty
ruler of the heavens and earth, with His Son
Jesus Christ, came down from heaven and re-
vealed Himself unto Joseph Smith and con-
ferred upon him the Holy Priesthood, with the
power thereof to seal on earth and it should be
sealed in heaven, and to establish his King-
dom on the earth again for the last time, to
restore all the blessings that were enjoyed by
the saints in ancient times, and we bear testi-
mony that the power and gifts of the Holy
Ghost are enjoyed by those who obey the law
with an honest heart, that we know that these
things are true and that we are governed by,
the regulations and laws which governed the
people of God in ancient times. Then how
dare men enact laws in the teeth of the "di-
vine law;" it is more than a moral law, it is a
command of God, a divine law, that a holy and
pure seed maybe raised unto the Lord of Hosts.
He has said, "For if I will, saith the Lord of
Hosts, raise up seed unto me, I will command
my people." He has commanded His people,
and they have obeyed the law, and He will
protect His people in their obedience:
	It is true according to the Scriptures that
darkness covers the earth and gross darkness
the minds of the people, when men of talent
and sound judgment on other subjects should
be so blind to reason when they undertake to
solve the Mormon problem. How they can
confound the present state of immorality extant
upon the earth with the holy order of marriage
as instituted by our Heavenly Father, passes
all comprehension.
	Senator Brown says, "he can see no differ-
ence between our system of marriage and the
prostitution of the New England States." At
the same time he says, "Under the Mormon
system the husband is married to a plurality of
wives, he cohabits with them all as his wives,
and they are generally prolific of offspring.
According to the law of his church he believes
his offspring are legal and it is his duty to care
for and support them all alike. The mother of
each is regarded as his legal wife, and each of
the children as his son or daughter. The fam-
ily is sustained and kept together according to
the old patriarchal usage. The people are an
industrious, laborious people; they are a thrifty
people. No beggars or tramps are found in the
streets. Pauperism is but little known in the
Territory. What they call adultery or the co-
habitation by a Mormon husband with a wom-
an to whom he is not married, according to the
church rites, is regarded as a great crime; and
I believe it is generally admitted that prior to
the settlement of Gentiles among them neither
prostitution nor houses of ill-fame were known
to any extent in the Territory." And yet he
sees no difference between such a people and
the pictures he draws of the condition of the
States. According to his estimation, New
York has 12,000 prostitutes, thousands of ille-

[Column 2]
gitimate children are born without the protec
tion of a father, and in most instances both
mother and child are discarded and cast into
the streets to make a living as best they can,
and sink into destruction both body and soul;
while the man is retained in society, can vote,
hold office, and may dictate in the nation or
bear rule; and such men are sent out here to
play "Paul Pry," and invade the sacred
precincts of the home circle and drag women
before a jury to testify against their husbands,
their lawful protectors. Such men, and only
such, would stoop to drag young ladies from
their homes and immure them in prison for
having the moral courage to maintain the
right of free will, to refuse to answer questions
they have no right to ask, no woman can be
compelled to testify against her husband, and
I hope the Almighty Father will give our sis-
ters strength to maintain their integrity to the
rights of freedom, the right of free thought,
the right of conscience to worship God accord-
ing to our convictions of right, to keep sacred
the home tie, the confidence that exists between
husband and wife. It is the heighth of oppres-
sion to he compelled to submit to such inva-
sions of our inherent rights, and we protest
against it most emphatically.
	Every organized Territory should have the
right that the early Revolutionary Fathers
claimed of Great Britain and bled to obtain—
that is, of making its own laws and being rep-
resented in the general assembly as as a confeder
ate power, being represented by men of our
own choice, bona fide residents of the Terri-
tory, men that understand the circumstances
of the people, that have known the struggles
and hardships the people have endured to
make the territory what it is to-day. The Con-
gress of the United States has no business
with the domestic relations of Utah. The na-
tions of the earth stand and look aghast and
with wonder at the farce being enacted on the
American continent, an inquisition on foot to
compel loyal citizens to convict themselves of
crime.
	O Liberty! A sound once delightful to
every American ear! Now fallen and tram-
pled under foot, is it possible that such things
exist in this the nineteenth century, in the
once proud land of freedom, a land of enlight-
ened statesmen, of advanced education?  Is it
true that the sons and daughters of monarchy
can hold in derision and laugh to scorn the
boasted institutions of liberty that has caused the
best blood of the age to be spilt? Oh, cannot
the latent spark that still lingers in the hearts
of some be brought to bear to save the nation
from utter destruction? Yes. The Lord God
of heaven will come out of His hiding place
ere long, and destroy wickedness and rule in
the councils of men, to dispense equity and
justice to a down-trodden people, and save the
Constitution from shame and ruin, raise the
Flag of Liberty to its pristine beauty and glory
and vindicate a loyal people from the false
charge of treason.
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, June 15th, 1884.


Minutes of the Ladies' Conference in Salt
Lake, Weber and Utah Stakes also several
other notices of ladies' meetings are laid over
for lack of space; however these notices will
appear in due course of time.


26	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A DAY--DREAM.

IN TWO PARTS.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART FIRST.

	Dear me; how it does snow! It has been
snowing or raining for the past three weeks;
there is no going out, for the roads are almost
as bottomless as the frightful pit that my pious
old grandma used to tell me I should go into
if I was not a good girl. There was some con-
solation in it being bottomless, for in my long
journey through it, I might perchance grasp at
some crevice and emerge into the land of
chance, that I used to read of; where I might
be changed into a beautiful bird at any min-
ute. As for carrying an umbrella—who ever
heard of that useful article being at home when
it was most needed?
	I am tired of work, so I will sit down and
read. There now, I am seated in my easy
chair before the fire! How comfortable! The
world is not so bad after all. I am so sleepy.
How curious those coals look. They are—
what fantastic shapes they take! Why—I
thought I was sitting in my easy chair watch-
ing the pretty pictures formed by the bright
coals, but I find myself climbing a mountain.
I am at its summit. What a pretty valley! The
sun is casting its first rays on the beautiful or-
chards and vineyards. I will walk down and
see who lives here and what the people are
like. The people must be very industrious, for
they are stirring already, and it is only five
o'clock. There is a group of children coming,
I suppose they are out taking the benefit of
this fine morning breeze.
	Good morning, young ladies. I see you are
out enjoying the morning air, which will keep
the roses on your cheeks. "The cool air is
very nice, ma'am, but we are going on to the
mountains to gather wild flowers. To-day our
Primary Conference meets; we are expecting
visitors, and wish some sweet flowers to deck
the stand." What do you learn at your Pri-
maries? "We are told to love the Lord and
keep His commandments; obey our parents,
and to be kind and courteous to every one.
Please excuse us now, for we want to gather our
posies before breakfast." Away they run, mak-
ing the hills echo with their merry laughter. I
see the people are not wealthy, but how neat
and clean everything looks. They are musical
for I have already heard several organs this
morning.
	This cool breeze gives me an appetite; I will
inquire of this young woman where I can find
a restaurant. "Excuse me, but will you be so
kind as to direct me to a restaurant?" "We
have none, madam." "Indeed, that is strange!
You have them in Salt Lake." "Oh, yes,
ma'am, and all the rest of the issues of outside
civilization, such as saloons, billiard rooms and
houses of ill-fame, introduced by the would-be-
reformers of our people. Although I have no-
thing against restaurants, they are very con-
venient for travelers." "How is a person to
get refreshments in a place like this?" "You
can go to the Bishop's, ma'am, or any of our
people will accommodate you, if they are able.
Good morning."
	This is what these Mormons call "outside
civilization," saloons, billiard rooms and houses
of ill-fame. This puts a new face on things.
I suppose I must fast this morning, for I am
determined to see further.
	Here is a pretty place, I suppose it must be
the Bishop's. There's a beautifhl lawn; frag-
rant flowers are dotted here and there, outlined
by shrubs and ferns of various hues and
shades, seeming to vie in their efforts for beau-
ty and colors their more refined and delicate
neighbors, the posies. In the centre of the

[Column 2]
lawn a fountain is sending forth its silvery
spray dancing in the sunbeams. Directly op-
posite the fountain, in the back ground, stands
a white cottage, moderate in its dimensions, and
having a neat, home-like appearance. The
beauteous rose, the sweet-scented honey suckle
and jessamine entwining themselves around the
windows and scattering their branches over a
miniature balcony illuminated by the refulgent
rays of the sun, forming a picture worthy of an
artist's pencil. I must enter this house and see
what these people are like. As I walk up the
clean gravelled walk leading from the gate to
the house, I wonder if the inmates in their char-
acter assimilate with their surroundings. I
open the door, pass through the hall to the par-
lor or sitting room. The floor is nicely cov-
ered with a green and red carpet; a few choice
scenic oil paintings and several portraits of cel-
ebrated men form a prominent feature of the
room. An organ stands open as if some one
had just left it. There is such a soft, musical
air in the room, that I fancy I can hear the
flute-like notes of the pretty warbler. There
is a library filled with histories and a choice se-
lection of other literature. I cast my eyes to
the portraits and—yes; they are the portraits of
the principal men of the Mormon Church. A
large table stands in the centre of the room,
covered with a cloth to match the carpet, well
supplied with the current literature of the day.
There is a cosy fire and an easy chair close
by, as if the master of the house had just left.
Pretty nick nacks here and there, of home pro-
duction, indicate the taste and economy of the
mistress of the house.
	The door leading to the dining room is part-
ly open; there the family are assembled for
breakfast. I will take a peep in. An exten-
sion table stands in the centre covered with a
snowy cloth and shining dishes. No tea or
coffee, but rich, new milk, and bright spark-
ling water. The bread is white and spongy,
and the butter looks as if made from buttercups
and daisies. There is also a dish of honey
glistening like amber in the sunlight. The
odor of those beefsteaks makes one feel ready
to accept an invitation to breakfast, but as I
am in cog. I cannot expect one. A handsome
man of forty sits with an open book in his
hand. Several children are there. They sit
very orderly, yet with bright, happy faces, as
if they were not afraid of pa. A tall, fine boy
of fifteen years, the counterpart of the gentle-
man, sits by the side of a fair girl of fourteen.
Between the young people and the smaller
children sit two good looking women. The
younger a blonde, and singularly like the
young girl; while the other, a brunette with
black eyes and raven locks, plainly told her
to be the mother of the eldest boy. These are
the wives of this man and the mother of these
children. See those love-lit eyes beaming on
their children, and from them to their hus-
band, not only a look of love, but of confi-
dence. The one man on earth to lead and
guide them through life. Are the women de-
graded slaves, and coerced by a task master?
Are they neglected and their heart strings torn
asunder by the infidelity of their husband? Do
they fear that some courtesan will be benefited
by his means and share his favors? Are these
children cruelly treated, neglected by their
parents, allowed to wander in the streets, to
drink, to smoke, to profane the name of Deity,
and to associate with the wicked and corrupt?
We shall see. Are they ill looking or de-
formed? Look at their sweet faces and comely
forms and answer. List ! for father reads: "If
they call the master of the house Beelzebub,
how much more shall they call them of his
household? If they have have persecuted me.
they will also persecute you. You see, my dear
children, our Lord was persecuted, He was
charged with being a wine-bibber and a friend
of publicans and sinners, and of casting out

[Column 3]
devils by the power of Beelzebub, the prince
of devils. If our Savior, the purest being that
ever lived, was persecuted and spoken evil of,
how can we expect any better treatment from
the world if we follow in His foststeps? Now
we will have a word of prayer." They all
kneel. Holy and Eternal Father. Thou who
dwellest in the heavens and holds the destiny
of men in Thy hands, we, a few of Thy child-
ren, bow before Thee this morning. We thank
Thee, Father, for life, for health, for the Gos-
pel that has been restored to men, for the rev-
elations of Thy Holy Spirit and for the assur-
ance that we are Thy children. Forgive us of
our sins, we beseech Thee. Holy Father, we
ask Thee to bless us as a family, that peace
and unity may be in our midst; that we may
be kind and obliging to our friends and neigh-
bors. We ask Thee for charity, that we may
forgive each other, even as we hope to be for-
given by Thee. Preserve our children from
evil, that they may grow to be wise and virtu-
ous men and women. We humbly ask Thee,
Father, to bless Thy servants whom Thou hast
placed at the head of Thy Church. Give un-
to them great wisdom aud understanding, that
they may direct and counsel Thy people in a
way that will be pleasing in Thy sight. Bless
our enemies if they will turn from the error of
their ways and serve Thee; if they will not, let
them be caught in the snares they have set for
Thy people. Into Thy hands we commend
ourselves, our children, and our substance: do
with us as Thou wilt, and Thou shalt have the
glory, through Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son.
Amen. Now for breakfast, take your seats,
children. Eliza, pass your plate for a piece of
this juicy steak. Katie, I think your bread
good enough for a member of Congress." Ka-
tie, the younger wife, looks up with a flash of
her bright blue eye. "Do not talk to me of the
members of Congress, Edward, I am perfectly
disgusted with them." "Now, Katie, do not be
too hard on them; pass your plate for this
steak, it will give you more charity for the ben-
efactors of our country." Said Eliza, the eld-
er, "Benefactors of our country! I like that,
Edward, only I fail to see the point. I am
just as indignant as Katie. Just think
of placing the business and property of our
church in the hands of fourteen trustees, chos-
en from the ranks of our enemies: It is per-
fectly absurd. Mr. Hoar must be a fit subject
for an insane asylum." I noticed that the two
elder children listened very attentively to the
conversation.

To be Continued.


We received a very pleasant call the other
day from two of Whittier’s cousins, inmates of
the same home at Oak Knoll. They were very
pleasant ladies, genial in conversation and well
pleased with the city. They remained over
Sunday and attended service in the taberna-
cle.
	Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado
Springs, the famous "H. H." of the Century
Magazine and the New York Independent, and
the author of several excellent books, we very
much regret has had the misfortune to break
her ankle recently; we were in hopes of having
her soon here in Salt Lake again.

	In Bishop Simpson, woman suffrage loses a
firm and consistent friend. Only a few
months before his death, he wrote: "I have for
more than thirty years believed that the great
interests of morality imperatively require that
the ballot should be placed in the hands of
woman. I have no doubt that the coming
years will see the triumph of your cause, and
that our higher civilization and morality will
rejoice in the work which enlightened woman
will accomplish."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 27


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

And, as the outer sir's cool breath
Revives, restores the heated brain
Wearied amid gay fashion's throng,
	So, to Virginia's soul so tried
There came a hope, some glimpse to gain
	Of knowledge heretofore denied.

Alone, as when she knelt in prayer,
She sought the place. A few had met,
Some grave and earnest as herself,
	Some skeptical, that thinly wore
Guise of respect, and others yet
	Were curious idlers, nothing more.

Were men like these, in raiment so
Unclerical to worldly eyes,
Commissioned bearers of the plan
	The world had lost—e'en God's own word?
To the discerning came the prize
	Through e'en the simplest sentence heard.

As from their lips the lesson fell
Like sep'rate links of one great chain,
FAITH parted wide the folding veil,
	And eyes that had been blind saw clear;
REPENTANCE swept away the vain
	Props of the past and drew them near

BABTISMAL waters. Like a flood
The HOLY SPIRIT filled each frame
With living, leaping, certain joy;
	The testimony and the light
Still other, farther truths to claim
	From the eternal source of light.

"I will hedge up thy way." How plain
Her past life's pathway now appeared!
Henceforth, those trials recognized
	As guards forbidding her to stray
On either side, because endeared
	To memory with hope's bright ray.

Not the Virginia who went out,
Returned beneath her kinsman's roof,
And as antipathies are swift
	To recognize each, though undisguised,
They guessed the truth, and keen reproof
	Mingled with plans that they advised.

Swift, as though on infectious wings,
Her strange conversion spread abroad;
Her kindred, mortified, refused
	To meet or hear those who had led
Her steps on strange, uncertain ground,
	A sect "of whom no good was said."

Anew Virginia turned to work,
Hope lighted now the passing days,
For her a goal was e'en in view,
	And when the still, long evenings came
She joined where lesson, prayer and praise
	Brought all in one in His dear name.

"The resurrection and the life,"
And the "baptism for the dead,"
Brought her a sense of joy and peace
	Her life before had ever missed;
And dreaming o'er the dear boy, dead,
	Again, in faith, his face she kissed.

Yet ever shadows follow light,
'Round ev'ry life since life began,
And oft it pained, surprised her, that
	Meeting old friends of former days
Approaching, just discern her, then
	Swiftly veer off the other way.

Perhaps you've met the same yourself;
Ah, well, Virginia knew the cost—
To bear an ill name for His sake,
	And yet, there came to her at last
A peril that she dared, and crossed—
	The torrent that before her passed.

*		*		*		*		*

For many days his watchful eyes
Had scanned her face, and studied well
Her loneliness and loss of friends;
	He knew the stigma on her name,
"A Mormon girl." Nought else to tell
	Against, the whiteness of her fame.

"Virginia, you've no need to work
In this slave fashion day by day,

[Column 2]
Your fingers are too dainty fine,
	Your face is far too gently fair
To bend from sight in such a way,
	And richer robes this form might wear.

"Give me the keeping of your fate,
Trust me to shelter all your life;
Fate has been cruel to us both;
	Yours shall be only silken bands,
And though I cannot call you "wife,"
	I am the slave of your commands."

"Then leave me!" pale Virginia spake—
Is human love the curse of earth,
And must we meet it everywhere?	
	The lovely wither in its flame—
Denied to those who prize its worth,
	While daring lips profane its name.

"Virginia, listen to me, then
Refuse me if I fail to prove
You have no other friend but me;
	I can uproot the ties you hold
In ev'ry path where you may move,
	For I have name, and power, and gold."

"And I am more than these, to you,
And I deny the gift you crave.
I have another Friend, nor fear
	Your name and power, and spurn your gold—
Your bands lead to the charnel grave,
	Your touch a serpents, poison, cold!"

"You feign to scorn divided claims
Of man's strong love, and yet you'll bind
Your fate in an impostor's snare;
	In temples cold, in zealot's thrall—
Or here, in silken bower, you'll find
	'Tis love! 'tis nature! rules them all."

He looked through eyes all blurred with sin,
But she, amid these murky scenes,
Saw the clear truth shine bright, afar,
	And answered him all calmly, then:
"Sir, nature makes men libertines,
	But wisdom makes them noblemen."

"Now, little saint, come ponder well;
The empty world and this bright nest
Lie in the scales. Make me your foe
	And soon, your futile pride o'erthrown,
And denied shelter, friendship, rest,
	Return at last to be my own.

" 'For might makes right,' and he who dares
Is he who wins; 'tis just this way;
Woman was made for man, the world
	Is full, and I will have my share;
Perhaps as gift, perhaps as prey—
	Small difference so the prize be fair.

"Look you abroad. The fields are full
Of human flowers, men pluck their choice.
If I do not, another will.
	If I elect where you shall bloom
Then who shall answer to the voice
	Within your gilded cage, my room?"

How many, 'neath such argument
Have felt their moral courage fail.
And when with mocking courtesy
	(So sure all seemed) he oped the door,
He little dreamed she would prevail
	And he would never meet her more.


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM JOHNSON.

JOHNSON, Kane Co., Utah, June 6th, 1884.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a word from this far off corner of
Utah would not come amiss. We are having
most pleasant weather just now, all nature is
clothed in her beautiful verdant costume, the
effect of many recent rains that we have been
blessed with, for it is really a blessing, and we
all appreciate it as such. The health of the
saints is good, only a few colds to complain of.
Our Relief Society and Primary are doing
well, all alive and awake to their duties, and
are striving to keep the commandments of God
and the Word of Wisdom is observed general-
ly. We see clearly the signs of the times are
approaching that were talked of long ago, and
one feels to say, could it not be postponed a

[Column 2]
little longer, for we have dear friends who have
not had the privilege of hearing the sweet
sound of the Gospel. I so much wish they
could, but Father knows best, and I would say,
Thy will be done.
	I see our enemies are still at work; another
sister imprisoned for her religion here in this
free land of America; well, their cup will soon
be full to overflowing; they cannot go only so
far, just as far as the Lord will let them, and
no farther.
	I hope Mrs. Belva Lockwood will make a
visit to Utah and become acquainted with the
people she has so ably defended, she is a fine,
gifted lady; I spent an evening with her while
I was at Washington, I do not think her equal
can be found for intelligence, wisdom and wit,
she deserves the praise and prayers of the
saints.
	I must not be too lengthy, I wish to say a
few words about our reunion of the Johnson
family. The first of June each year we
celebrate, it being the day the Gospel was re-
ceived by the eldest son, Joel H. Johnson, be-
ing now 53 years since he was baptised into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
as the first came on Sunday, all met on Satur-
day and passed the day in boat-riding, swing-
ing, shooting at marks and plays of various
kinds, with the young folks; the elder ones
chatting, telling their experience, and attend-
ing their grandchildren, who are not a few.
Dinner was served at 3 p.m. when 22 were
seated. All our children and grandchildren
were not here, 20 being absent; all was pleas-
ant and jovial. Dinner over plays were re-
sumed until evening, then came songs and mu-
sic, which filled the air with sweet sounds until
a late hour. Sunday, June 1st, ushered in
beautiful and pleasant, with the prattle of the
little ones making us think that we were a
happy family and these the fruit of our poster-
ity, and ever praying the Lord to bless them,
that they may grow up useful men and wom-
en in His Kingdom. At 10 o'clock all went to
Sunday School, our little school house was well
filled. At 2 p.m. meeting was called, the
house was packed; the usual opening exercises.
Our eldest son, Bishop W. D. Johnson; gave
an excellent discourse, mostly to the young;
exhorted them to be obedient to those placed
in authority over them, and to prepare them-
selves for missions at home and abroad, and
lead useful, honest and truthful lives, and be-
come men and women of honor in the King-
dom of God. Others followed with similar re-
marks. The remainder of the day was spent
in singing and music by several members of
the family; dinner was served at half past four,
when 34 were seated to a bountiful repast,
their countenances lighted up with smiles,
while wit and humor, with an occasional
graphic story of the past experience of the el-
der ones, caused the little ones to laugh heart-
ily. There were present 64 of the Johnsons
and those connected with the family. The
young folks took a ramble over the mountains,
came back loaded with beautiful flowers, many
much prettier than those raised in our gardens,
the evening was spent in singing and music.
	Monday morning all repaired to their homes
at Randall, feeling satisfied with the joyful
event, hoping to meet again next year, and to
be joined by more of the family.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, which is always a welcome visitor to me
and mine.
		Your sister, in the Gospel,
					JANE C. JOHNSON.


The ladies' regular semi-monthlymeeting was
held in the Social Hall, Saturday afternoon,
July 12, as the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms are undergoing repairs.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1884.


LADIES, GO AND VOTE.

	In view of the August election which is now
drawing near, we wish to remind the ladies of
Utah who are entitled to vote, that the Primary
meetings in the several precincts will convene
July 21; and it is their privilege to attend and
take part in the proceedings. It is a mistaken idea
that these meetings are of little significance,
they are at the foundation of the elections.
The choice of delegates to the convention, even
if it is only a county affair, is an important mat-
ter, and one that women are as much interest-
ed in as men, for they are expected to be amen-
able to laws and pay taxes and contribute to the
general good, and are therefore a part of the
body politic and should deport themselves ac-
cordingly.
	It is the sacred duty of every woman who has
the right of suffrage to go to the polls on election
day and deposit her ballot, for every vote adds
strength as well as numbers to the People's Par
ty. Every person should consider the vote he
or she casts as though it was the one to turn the
scale in favor of the man or men to be elected.
It is not only the public duty, but it is an indi-
vidual responsibility and one that no one can
perform for his friend or neighbor, but must be
done in person.
	If all realized the importance of attending to
this personal duty there would be a much hea-
vier vote cast than is usual among this people;
and assuredly there has been sufficient opposi-
tion to wake up those whose rights are at stake,
and put them "on their mettle," otherwise are
they not in danger of being subjected to the rul-
ing of wicked and designing men, who would
take from them every vestige of freedom; if they
are not awake to maintaining their own rights.


[Column 1]
THE TOPIC OF THE DAY.

	The two great leading parties of the nation,
the Republicans and the Democrats, have each
met in a national convention at Chicago, on sep-
arate occasions, to place in nomination the name
of the man who should be decided upon as the
choice of the respective party to be elected to
the most important office in the gift of the peo-
ple of these United States. Delegates repre-
senting every State and Territory were present,
and some of them made silvery and eloquent
speeches, glorifying the American nation and
extolling the candidate of their choice. After a
great deal of eloquence and enthusiasm in favor
of several candidates had been expressed in the
ablest and best manner possible upon such a
momentous question, the Republicans succeed-
ed in placing in nomination James G. Blaine, of
Maine, President, the man whom Ingersoll des-

[Column 2]
ignated, "the white plumed knight" and John
A. Logan, of Illinois, Vice-President. These
two men are the men to be voted for by the Re-
publicans at the Presidential election in Novem-
ber. Mr. Blaine is probably as good a man and
as suitable to fill the Presidential chair, perhaps
more so, than any other; but his record in that
important office is yet unwritten. It is impos-
sible to tell what any man may do in new and
ntried fields.
	The Democrats have finally, after a great deal
of wavering, come to the conclusion that as Tild-
en refuses to allow his name to appear Grover
Cleveland, of New York, is the man next best
calculated to promote the advancement of the
country under democratic rule, and have there
fore placed him in nomination as President,
with Thomas A. Hendricks, of Indiana, as Vice-
President.
	And these nominations were made mid shouts
and cheers and ringing applause, waving of flags
and fans, swinging of hats, and tumultuous ex-
ultation. Ladies, it is said, manifested quite as
much enthusiasm as men, and contributed
largely to the waving and cheering. Soon the
Presidential campaign work will begin in good
earnest, and each party will exert itself to the
utmost to influence the votes that are to elect
one or the other of these eminent champions.
	The contest has scarcely begun, for each party
is equally anxious to win the day, and from now
until the November election no pains or means
will be spared in the effort for success.
	There is likely to be a pretty equal divisions
judging by appearances, for both candidates are
very popular men and have shown marked abil-
ity in the field of statesmanship, and are there-
fore justly entitled to distinctive favor with the
people. It very often happens, however, that
men who have figured conspicuously and mani-
fested unusal talent in high places have made
but a poor showing when actually holding the
reins of power. Human nature is weak and in-
vested with almost absolute control, as it were,
in elevated positions men have frequently yielded
to the love of display, or some over bearing
pride of place and forgotten the people whose
interests were entrusted largely to their care
and whom they have sworn to serve and whose
confidence exalted them to the office of trust
and gave them the opportunity to shine.
	America is unlike any other nation; and there
is therefore no positive criterion to judge by, but
empires and kingdoms, great and rich, have
dwindled into insignificance and lost the balance
of power when they neglected to do justice to
their subjects, and when America, the land of
liberty, oppresses her citizens and brings into
servile subjection a portion of its territory for
obeying the voice of conscience, no man can tell
what the direful result may be.
	The Presidential boom that has begun may
turn the tide of national affairs in a new direc-
tion, and men interested in the general good
may forget poor, insignificant Utah, and thus
the child who has only received scoffs and
sneers, and never been the recipient of favors,
may have an opportunity to recover from the
scathing blow inflicted by the passage of the
Edmunds bill, and ere another Congress shall
convene it is sincerely to be hoped the folly of
passing unconstitutional laws may become so
glaringly apparent that such measures may fall
of any substantial support in the halls of Con-
gress, where the banner of liberty waves before
the eyes of all the world.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS BELLE E. ANDERSON, of this city, re-
turned from the East June 26, a graduate from
Ann Arbor in the medical profession. She has

[Column 2]
been diligently pursuing this study there for
three years, and having had excellent opportu-
nities under the training and tuition of her fa-
ther previously, it is to be presumed that she
commences practice with a thorough knowledge
of her work, lacking only practical experience,
which she will gain in the profession. Her abil-
ity can scarcely be questioned for she is a young
woman of superior attainments, and loves the
work she has voluntarily chosen. Her father’s
popularity as a physician and surgeon of many
years standing, no doubt will give the young
lady prestige, while her own beautiful face, her
splendid physique and courteous manner are
points not to be overlooked in one who visits the
sick room to alleviate suffering and minister to
the distressed. We welcome Miss Anderson
home, and bespeak for her a wide field of useful-
ness in her professional career.
	Utah may well be proud of her women phys-
icians, these earnest, faithful workers deserve
the patronage of the people. Once it was con-
sidered unwomanly to practice medicine, and
so men were called to attend delicate, feeble
women, under any and all circumstances; but
how much more fitting it seems for women to
nurse and treat their own sex in the time of sor-
est need or in the most painful extremity.

	ELDER JOHN Q. CANNON, who has been ab-
sent on a mission to Europe nearly three years,
returned on the 24th of June, accompanied by
his wife, Annie W. Cannon, whose letters of
travel have been published in the EXPONENT,
and have been very interesting, as we have
had abundant evidence from our readers. Both
Bro. and Sister Cannon are pleased to return
home, they have had a pleasant journey and ar-
rived in health and safety. A party of relatives
and friends in a special car met them in Ogden,
and there was a warm greeting and happy meet-
ing. Bro. Cannon has resumed the journalistic
labors on the Deseret News, in which he was
engaged before going on his mission, and when
Sister Cannon is rested after the fatigue of trav-
eling she will continue to favor us with reminis-
cences of her journeyings abroad. She was
much pleased with the Swiss and German sis-
ters, and very anxious to have them gather out
and come to Zion, that they may share in the
privileges and blessings that are so freely given
to the saints in this land.

	ON Saturday, July 12th, at 12 a.m., Dr. Ellis
B. Shipp’s class underwent their final examina-
tion before entering upon the practice of obstet-
rics. The examination was made by Doctors
Heber John Richards, Wm. Bowers and Mil-
ford B. Shipp. The names of the students were
Hannah Burnham and Mary C. Shipp, Draper,
Mary Swindle, Monroe, Esther Hunsaker, Hon-
eyville, A. J. Tippets, Cecelia Neilson, Caroline
Hanson, Lizzie Evans, Ellen Stark, Brigham
City, Caroline Ipson, Mantua, Hannah Ander-
son, Bear River City. The Doctors expressed
themselves well pleased with the way in which
the students acquitted themselves. Refresh-
ments, ice cream, fruit, etc., were afterwards
served to all. Some other ladies were invited
to be present and participate in the entertain-
ment. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp and the Editor of the EXPONENT were
among the number. Dr. Shipp will commence
another class on the 10th of October, and will
be pleased to receive students, feeling, deeply
the necessity there is for more competent help
in this profession.

	NELLIE WHITE, the brave and fearless young
lady sent to the peni tentiary for contempt in
refusing to answer what she considered improp-
er questions, is now at liberty and for the time
allowed to remain with her mother and family.


The Grand Jury were discharged, Judge Hunt-
er removed and the court adjourned, and conse-
quently there was no excuse for keeping her any
longer in "durance vile." During her imprison-
ment she was not allowed the privileges that
Belle Harris had while she was there for the
same cause; viz.: contempt. Nellie White was
taken from home while engaged in teaching
school, and has lost her position, another lady
having taken her place, she is thrown out of
employment, her health is impaired and she
has no means at present of gaining a livelihood.
This is the noble revenge the courts take upon
innocent, unoffending young women to gratify a
whim and preserve the dignity of the law.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT. 29


[Column 1]
OUT IN THE COUNTRY.

	SATURDAY morning, June 28th, we left the
city by an early train for Evanston. Arriving
at Echo, we were joined by Prest. W. W. Cluff
and Sisters M. J. Atwood and Ruth Pack, who
accompanied us to our destination at Evanston,
where we met with the Relief Society in the af-
ternoon, Sister Mary Whittle presiding. We
were most hospitably entertained at the resi-
dence of Bro. and Sister Deloney.
	Sunday morning rode to Almy and met with
the Sunday School, heard the classes go through
their exercises and afterwards spoke to them a
few minutes by invitation of the Superinten-
dent, Bro. Adin Brown. The school was very
orderly and the children seemed to be intelli-
gent and appreciative. Evidently they have
had excellent discipline.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by Pres.
W. W. Cluff; the sermon was a rather practical
one, but specially adapted to the circumstances
of the people.
	In the evening we mot with the Relief Socie-
ty, Mrs. Martha Woodhouse presiding. Re-
marks were made by the President, her Coun-
selors, Sisters Marian Russell, and Catherine
Beveridge, also Sisters Atwood and Pack, and
we occupied a short time. We then repaired to
the residence of Bro. and Sister Beveridge,
where we were warmly welcomed and remained
over night. Arrangements were made with the
Bishop, James Bowns, at his house, where we
dined Sunday after meeting, to organize a Pri-
mary, and on Monday morning, June 30, we
had the pleasure of organizing the Association
in Almy Ward. The meeting was opened by
singing, "Children, do you love each other?"
Prayer by Bro. James Hood. Singing, "Songs
of the heart." After instructions to the parents
as well as the children on the benefit of these
organizations and the good results to be obtained
from them, the following officers were unani
mously sustained:
	Mrs. Sarah Horsley, President; Mrs. Martha
Alston and Miss Maggie Russell, Counselors;
Miss Jemima Russell, Secretary; and Miss Jea-
nette Beveridge, Assistant Secretary; Master
Frank Burton, Treasurer. 40 children were
voted in and their names enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Sister Bruce drove us in her carriage to Evan-
ston, where we dined and then took the mid-
day train for Echo. At that place we had to
wait several hours for the Park City train, mean-
time resting at Sister Lucy Stevenson's,a charm-
ing country home, and such magnificent groves
with their shady nooks, and verdant meadows
in the background. It seemed altogether the
very place for one wearied with excitement,
noise and bustle to spend a few days in the heat
of the summer, and the hostess is one of the
most motherly and kind, with a soothing voice
and genial manners. Late in the afternoon we
took train for Coalville, where we had a very
interesting time with old friends.

[Column 2]
	Tuesday, at 2 o'clock p.m., we met with the
Relief Society in the meetimg house, Mrs. Sar-
ah Wilde presiding. The house was well filled;
Bishop Salmon and several other brethren were
in the audience. There were several sisters from
adjoining settlements who had come quite a
distance to attend.
	The principal subject of the local sisters was a
County Fair, which is being arranged for and
will be held at Coalville sometime early in Au-
gust. They have a vary able and efficient com-
mittee of ladies, Mrs. Aon Cluff, Mrs. Jessie
Boydeu, ard Mrs. Isabella Hodson, associated
with the presiding sisters of the Stake. The
sisters are making every exertion possible, mak-
ing articles, useful and ornamental, that will
sell to raise means to purchase the glass for the
Stake House. The Primary Associations seem
as much interested as the Relief Society or
Young Ladies'. It is certainly commendable in
these ladies to undertake such an affair, and
time is little doubt of its success, for whatever
these organizations have ever undertaken by
united effort they have gloriously achieved.


[Column 1]
﻿INTERESTING CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake of Zion, held in
the tabernacle, Saturday, June 21st, 1884, Sister
S. Herrick presiding. Opened by singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet;" Prayer of-
fered by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff; Singing, "Hail
to the brightness of Zion's glad morning;" after
which the minutes of the previous Conference
were read and accepted.
	Prest. S. Herrick then made a few very ap-
propriate remarks, in which she expressed her
thankfulness for the many blessings we enjoy.
She closed her remarks by invoking the Spirit of
the Lord to rest upon all during the Confer-
ence.
	Sister Stanford reported the Third Ward Ass.
Sister M. A. Riley reported the Second Ward,
Sister E. N. Hill reported the First Ward.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith next addressed the
congregation. She exhorted the young ladies to
improve in temporal things as well as in spirit-
ual things. Recommended the study of gov-
ernment and to become acquainted with the pol-
itics of other nations. "The young ladies have
lain the proper foundation, and it is my desire
that they continue in well doing. Each lady
has an important part to act, and has to form
her own character and make herself just what
she wishes to be; by yielding to the influence
from above or the one from beneath; by listen-
ing to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, our
names will be held in loving remembrance, but
if they take the contrary course they die and
are forgotten. I entreat of you young women
to seek for your husbands men of God, men who
are worthy of you, men who will sacrifice all to
do their duty, that you may raise up a right-
eous posterity that will become mighty and that
will know God in their youth. Woman is to
hold a higher and a nobler position than ever
held by her before, and she requires a noble
husband--not one that is inferior to her." Gave
many more valuable instructions and closed by
beseeching God to bless the youth of Zion; that
they may become as precious stones and shine
brilliantly in the courts of God.
	Bro. Thos. Wallace endorsed the remarks of
the previous speakers, and gave much good in-
struction urged the young to seek for knowl-
edge.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.; Singing; Bene-
diction by Bishop Thos. Wallace.
	Afternoon. After the usual opening exercises
Sister Smith said there was some business to be

[Column 2]
transacted, which she would attend to. Sister
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West of-
fered their resignations as Counselors to Prest.
Sarah Herrick, therefore creating two vacancies,
which were filled by Sister R. E. Monch being
chosen as First Counselor, and Sister E. Y.
Stanford as Second Counselor. This nomination
was unanimously sustained. The Secretary
read the resignation of Sister Josephine R.
West:

OGDEN CITY, June 21st, 1884.

To the President and Members of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Weber Stake of Zion.
	Dear Sisters, owing to the many increasing
and anxious duties which devolve upon me as
Presiden of the Primary Associations of the
Weber Stake, which are now twenty-one in
number, I feel it my duty to tender to you my
resignation of the office of Second Counselor to
your President, Sister Sarah Herrick. I have
been sensible for some time past that with the
multiplied cares of home and the increasing
labors and responsibilities of the Primaries, I
have been quite unable to bestow that service
and consideration upon the duties of this posi-
tion that the great and growing cause of the Im-
provement Associations demanded.
	I am quite confident that another can be
found who, by reason of greater leisure and su-
perior ability than that possessed by me, can
render more efficient service and better promote
the welfare of the Societies than I have done in
the past or am capable of doing in the future.
	I shall ever pray that your efforts in the good
work may be attended with the blessings of our
Heavenly Father and the teachings of His Holy
Spirit. I am still your sister in the love of the
Gospel.

JOSEPHINE RICHARDS WEST.

	Sister Monch then presented Sister Emily
S Richards with a handsome Autograph Al-
bum, in behalf of the young ladies, wherein all
the Presidents of the Associations had writ-
ten, also Sister E R. S. Smith, and she was
also presented with a large Photogragh Album,
containing the portraits of the Presidents, and
then read the following Resolutions of Respect
to Sister E. S. Richards upon her leaving this
city:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO MRS. EMILY S.
RICHARDS.

	Whereas, It becomes our duty to part with
and accept the resignation of our esteemed
friend, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, as First Coun-
lor to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Weber Stake of Zion, which position she so long
held and so faithfully filled, thereby winning
the confidence of, those over whom she presid-
ed, as well as her co-laborers in this cause; and
	Whereas, There can be nothing more beauti-
ful than the love and union which she ever cher-
ished among the daughters of Zion, establishing
thereby pure friendship, we feel that her re-
tirement from office presents a suitable oppor-
tunity for expressing the esteem in which we
hold her; therefore,
	Resolved, That we tender our sister our heart
felt thanks for the zeal she ever manifested in
the discharge of her duties; the wise counsel,
through the aid of our Heavenly Father, she
was ever enabled to impart; the charity she has
shown to the poor by freely administering to
their wants the things which heaven so gra-
ciously bestowed upon her. And although we
regret the necessity which occasions her retire-
ment from office,
	We feel that her field of usefulness, in her
new home, will yet become larger, strengthened
by the experience thus gained, and her desires
to foster and nourish mutual improvement will


[Column 1]
increase until her labors on this earth are ended,
and she can indeed exclaim, "I have fought a
good fight; I have finished my course; I have
kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me
a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous judge, shall give me at that day."
	We, therefore, invoke the blessings of God
upon her and her household, and pray that the
same kind spirit may ever guide her in her new
home that so kindly hovered over her here.
	Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a
copy of the same be presented to Mrs. Rich-
ards.
				SARAH A. HERRICK,
				MARY A. RILEY,
				ELIZABETH Y. RICHARDS,
				RUTHINDA A. MONCH.
					LINES.

	Dedicated to Mrs. Emily S. Richards, on the occas-
sion of her resignation as First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Y. L, M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion,
by Ruthinda E. Monch.

Think not the good that you have done,
The gentle deeds of mercy shown
	Shall all forgotten be.
No, no, dear sister, you will find
The footprints you have left behind
	Will stand eternally.

The sacred lessons you have giv'n;
Directing thoughts to God and heaven,
	Time never will erase;
For they are carved in memory here,
And their good fruits will yet appear
	As buds, your life to grace.

The widow and the motherless,
The sick, the cold, the fatherless,
	The weary and distressed,
That you have fed, and warmed, and clothed,
The aching hearts that you have soothed,
	And by your kindness blessed,

Will raise their prayers to God above
To shield you by His arm of love
	And guide you ever more
In paths of virtue, joy and peace;
In wisdom's ways your life ne'er cease,
	In gifts for you in store.

Their prayers will stand on record there
As pure as alabaster fair,
	A credit to your name.
And in due time they will shine forth
As priceless jewls of far more worth
	Than worldly pomp or fame.

Such deeds are gems of purest ray,
That ne'er grow dim nor pass away,
	Where they are kept for thee
As treasures in the bank above,
Secure and safe they're locked in love,
	And Father holds the key.

	After which Sister Minnie J. Snow, of Brig-
ham city, occupied the time. She took much
pleasure in laboring with the girls. We must
cultivate and control our feelings; we can with-
out much difficulty master our actions, but it re-
quires a greater effort to control our feelings.
The young people are the hope of Zion, and mo-
thers should instruct their daughters in the
principles of the Gospel.
	Sisters E. S. Richards and Josie R. West said
they had the kindest feelings towards all, and
expressed their thanks for the kindness shown
them while laboridg with the Central Board,
and prayed for the prosperity of the associations
everywhere.
	Sisters Shurtliff and Monch each made some
very well chosen remarks; exhorting those pres-
ent to live up to the instructions given.
	Sisters E. Y. Stanford and J. S. Richards fol-
lowed with much more good counsel to the
young, and advised them to live for the eternal
world, and not hold be fast to the perishable
things of this world.
	Prest. Shurtliff appreciated the good advice
that had been given, which, if lived up to

[Column 2]
will lead us to the presence of our Lord and Sa-
vior.
	Slater Smith advised a meeting to be held
once a month for the officers, that they might
counsel together and better prepare themselves
to preside over these associations.
	Prest. Herrick bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said, when conference ad-
journed for three months, and closed by singing
"Come let ns anew our journey pursue." Clos-
ing prayer by Bro. L. F. Munch
				EMILY J. NEWMAN,
					Secretary pro. tem.


30	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAMILY MEETING

	From Sister Harriet Hunsaker, of Honeyville,
we have heard the part'culars of a very pleasant
party, which convened at the residence of Sister
Catherine Beckstead, senior, of South Jordan,
on Monday, July 7th, to celebrate the anniver-
sary of her birth, which took place 77 years ago
in Canada. The party consisted almost entirely
of the aged lady's own immediate family; four
daughters met on that occasion who had been
separated for several years. The Bishop of the
ward and his wife were present, also Sister Ann
Holt, President of the Relief Society of South
Jordan. Among the guests sixteen great grand
children were present, and those were not
all the great grand children of the ven-
erable lady, who was the surprised recipi-
ent of the honors of the day. Over seventy
sat down to supper, and one can better imagine
than describe the joy and pleasure of the happy
meeting.
	Sister Beckstead has been the mother of fif-
teen children, ten are still living, and many
grand children as well as great grand children.
She has been a widow more than fourteen years.
Sister Beckstead was a "Mormon" in an early
day, and traveled up to Missouri about 1837;
shared in the persecutions in Caldwell and De
Witt Counties, afterwards came to Illinois, left
Nauvoo in 1846 and journeyed with the Saints
to Winter Quarters. Her eldest son, Gordon,
was a member of the famous Mormon Battalion,
Sister Beckstead came with her husband and
family to Utah in 1849, and settled in North
Canyon, afterwards moved to what was then
known as the Jordan, and subsequenty called
South Jordan. The aged lady is held in very
high esteem by all who are acquainted with her.
and her many friends will no doubt join with
her children and relatives in wishing her con-
tinued health, happiness and prosperity. Such
family reunions seem to strengthen the chords
of love and unity which bind together friends
and families, and make life more desirable and
enjoyable.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

BY A CHILD TWELVE YEARS OLD.

	The Fourth of July, or Independence Day. I
wonder how many of us know the meaning of
this day. It is the day that our forefathers de-
clared their independence from the mother
country. And we find by reading the Declara-
tion of Independence, how the people of Ameri-
ca were tyranized over by the king of Great
Britain. He would keep among them in times
of peace standing armies without the consent of
their legislature, and would deprive them, in
many cases, of the benefit of trial by jury. He
would have them taken over the sea to be tried
for pretended offenses, and he would also sus-
pend their own legislature, and claimed that he
had the right of making their laws, just as Gov-
ernor Murray would like to treat our legislature.
 So I would advise all my brothers and sisters to


become acquainted with the Constitution of our
country, which was framed by good men.
	That we may always be true to our country as
American born citizens, is the desire of your sis-
ter in the Primary Association.
							AGGIE LEWIS.
	Written for the "Primary Star," Spanish
Fork, June 28th., 1884.


﻿A VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	In company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and
M. P. Young, I had the pleasure of visiting the
women's organizations of Tooele Stake, at
Grantsville.
	President Mrs. M. A. Hunter was, as usual,
full of kindness and love. In her company
Mrs. Young and myself attended a very large
and interesting meeting of the teachers of the
Relief Society, held at the residence of Mrs.
Wrathall, who gave us a whole-souled wel-
come, which made our visit exceedingly pleas-
ant.
	Next morning we went to the "Hall" to in-
spect the elegant and useful articles made by
the little hands of the members of the Primary
Association. To make mention of all the ar
ticles worthy of notice would be impossible
they were all a great credit to the little ones
Miss Eva Despain had babies' socks on view
she washed, carded, spun, colored and knit
them from lamb's wool. A number of little
girls made a handsome quilt, procured the wool
and calico, made the batts, patched and put
them together, quilted, bound and finished in
just as good work and taste as if done by their
mothers. Ornamental cardboard work by
Miss Lottie Hales, aged 12, and Miss Viola
Wooley, aged 8, was very beautiful. An al-
most unique antimacasser by Miss A. E. But-
ler, aged 10, and one by Alice A. Millward
gives quite a new idea of fancy work- I no-
ticed very pretty knit wool trimming by Viola
Despain, 12 years, as a very useful ornament
for skirts; also embroidered necktie and collar
by A. M. Wooley.
	I am almost puzzled what to say about the
whole affair, all were so well done and so cred-
itable, I will mention card baskets made of
spool cotton and cardboard, each medallion
forming a frame for a pretty picture, which
displayed excellent taste, and were very beauti-
ful. I will just mention a few names that de-
serve notice. A pretty bead basket by Minnie
Samuelson; Joan Judel a pair of wool pitchers;
a cushion in raised wool work by Sarah Rich;
other fancy work and useful articles by Viola
Clarke, A. Mc.Bride, M. J. Mc.Bride, H. E.
Andersen, P. Hale, A. L. Durfee, M. A. Wat
son, Gracie Hale, A. Judd, Katie and Hettie
Hale, were exceedingly well done as displaying
taste and industry. A little girl found some
glass goblets with the stands broken off; she
made the rough places smooth by rubbing on a
stone, then got colored wool and crocheted
handsome covers for them with tassels on the
bottom, put in clay and then planted ivy in one,
a pretty creeper in another, and they were then
used in lieu of hanging baskets, and make a
very pretty and handsome ornament for sitting
room or parlor.
	There was also a pretty good showing from
the little boys, but not as large as we would
have wished to have seen; there was a good,
bridle made by a boy 8 years of age, J. H.
Hale, real strong and well braided, also a set
of gardening implements by Franklin Han-
sen, aged 7, out of wood with his pocket knife,
consisting of shovel, spade, pick, ax, adze, mal-
let, fork, etc., and a good sample of early peas
by Chester Rydalch.
	There was a great variety of dresses, aprons
shirts, etc., made by hand and machine sew-
ing, that would have done credit to ladies
much older; indeed, all the work was surpris-


ng, considering all the manufacturers were un-
der 14 years of age.
	The contributions from the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association were very
fine and elegant; a vase of water lilies in wax,
also large bouquets of wax and wool flowers,
embroidered slippers, several specimens of hair
work, etc., etc., were all beautiful, of course; a
magnificent Japanese quilt and dozens of other
articles for use and ornament graced the walls
of the building, which were handsomely decor-
ated for the occasion.
	The whole fair was creditable to all who con-
tributed either time, talent or means.
	Our Relief Society, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary meetings were well attended. The mem-
bers of each seem willing and determined to
serve God and keep the counsels they receive
through the Priesthood from Him. President
Gowan attended all the assemblies and spoke as
being satisfied with the work the women were
doing in the different organizations.
	Bro. Gowan's Counselors, Bros. Andersen
and Lee, with many other brethren, addressed
the large congregation. We had a pleasant and
happy visit.							E. H.


31	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RICHMOND PRIMARY.

	Minutes of the Fifth Annual meeting of the
Richmond Primary Association, held June
2nd, 1884, President Mary Allsop presiding;
singing, "Little Children should love Jesus;"
prayer by Joseph R. Thompson, aged thirteen;
singing, We all have a work to do." Minutes
of last annual meeting read and accepted, also
the yearly report. The exercises consisted of
songs, recitations and dialogues rendered by
the children, which they did with great credit.
	Sister Jane E. Molen, Stake President, met
with us and gave good instructions. Short ad-
dresses were made by Sister Williams, Presi-
dent of the Smithfield Primary, Bishop Wm.
S. Skidmore, Sister Myra Merrill, President of
the Relief Society, and Sister Hannah T.
Brower.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Singing,
"Always Cheerful." Benediction by the child-
ren in concert.
	Statistical report of the Primary Associa-
tion, beginning June 1st, 1883, and ending
June 1st. 1884:
	Number of meetings held, 44; Number of
members enrolled, 195; Average attendance,
95; Cash remaining in treasury from previous
year, $1.72; Cash received from members dur-
ing the year, $5.08; Cash received from Pri-
mary entertainment, $56.00; Total, $62.80; Dis-
bursements, Paid to the new meeting house,
$50.00; Expenses for Primary entertainment,
$1.25; Paid to Emigration Fund, $5.00; Paid
for cards, $4.70; for papers, $0.60; Total, $61.55;
Property on hand, $5.00; Cash on hand, $1.25.
				MARY A. TRAVELLER,
							Secretary.

LINES COMPOSED BY HANNAH T. BROWN FOR THE
ANNUAL MEETING.

All hail, this day, the First of June,
	Which gave a prophet birth;
Among the noblest ol God’s sons;
	His name shall ne’er have dearth.

The name, oh, yes, of Brigham Young
	Yet in our hearts shall live,
In memory of the wise advice
	He to the saints did give.

Our Primary was organized
	Upon this natal day.
On which we meet to celebrate
	It with harmonious lay.

Then welcome to the First of June,
	Young brothers and sisters dear,
And may we meet from time to time
	With many a happy cheer.


May union join us heart and hand,
	And may we live to see
Yet many celebrations,
	And then have our Jubilee.


PRIMARY REPORT.

MARICOPA CO., ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Primary was organized May 8th, 1883,
Sister Louisa Harper, President; Sister Letitia
E. Jones and Louellia Patterson, Counsel-
ors.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks. Our
President is doing all she can to encourage the
children to attend their meetings. We have
testimony, and also sewing meetings. The
children all take great delight in reading, re-
citing, bearing their testimony, etc. They also
take an interest in this great and glorious work,
and we feel very thankful to our Heavenly
Father that He has permitted us to live in this
day and age of the world, that we might grow
up to be honored mothers in Zion, and do a
great and mighty work in the Kingdom of God,
and to know and comprehend the work that
has to be done on earth.
	This is a small branch, but there are quite a
few children to attend the Primary. We are
improving rapidly. There are twenty-one
names enrolled as members.
		LOUEA B. HARPER, Secreatary,
		MARY J. STEELE, Correspondent.


[Column 1]
LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.

THOUGHTS ON "HOMESPUN TALK."

	Utah is growing in her literature. The
steps she has taken in this direction, and the
rapid progress she has made in a very few
years is certainly remarkable. Many people
who are somewhat acquainted with the situa-
tion and doings of our Church wonder at the
amount of good, wholesome literature, suitably
adapted to the reading of both old and young,
which is circulated among our people, and the
influence this has in our social intercourse, and
the improvement it has made among us, es-
pecially in the young, can be seen even by a
careless observer.
	To keep up this intellectual flow it calls into
action many active brains, swift pens and care-
ful critics. The number of women writers
that are continually being added to the ranks
of those already in the literary field, would
be surprising to one who was not expecting to
see such an increase of genius in that line.
	A few years ago we had not the pleasure of
reading articles from the pens of the women of
Utah. Then only those who were most gifted
gave their sentiments to the public, but now
we see here, there are everwhere, women
writers who are grasping the pen, first timidly
and fearful, but gradually growing in confi-
dence and strength, till we find, in articles
written by them, sentiments worthy some of
the greatest writers in the land. We realize
that much of this has been brought about
through the influence and benefit of the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A's., which is one
of the methods of training instituted by our
Heavenly Father in our school of instruction
—but why should not the women of Utah be
able to write, and write glorious sentiments,
too? Are they not living under the voice and
influence of inspiration? Have they not the
Spirit of God within them to guide their
thoughts and expressions? And why should
they not be permitted to write? The time has
come when the Lord is not only willing that
their voice shall be heard in the land, but His
Spirit calls upon them to speak, and they feel
that they must do it. The testimony of the
truth which they have often borne to each

[Column 2]
other is burning within them and they feel
they must give it to the world. They cannot
go on missions, to be sure, and stand before
congregations of the world to bear this testi-
mony, but they can send their voice abroad
through the medium of the press. Whether
their words come to us as the glorious sun-
beams, brilliantly lighting everything with
their rays and dispelling the darkness, or as
the lightning flash, quick, decisive and sure,
every word penetrating to the marrow, or with
the cheery patter as of falling raindrops, or
whether, as best of all, they come like a holy
healing balm poured in upon our hearts, as if
dealt out by a generous, loving hand, lifting
the care and sorrow that has settled there, they
carry with them the same spirit of truth and
godlike purity, which is being and will be felt
by all the world, and they will not fail to leave
their influence upon it. Unlike those of the
world, the literary women of Utah do not
write solely for the novelty or fame they may
secure by it, nor for acquiring money, but they
write simply because they think it is right, and
God requires them to improve this talent as
well as all other talents which He has given
them, and because they are constrained to give
to the world the testimony of the truth that is
burning within them to be spoken, and as they
all drink from the same fountain of righteous-
ness their writings all savor of the same divine
truth; hence it follows that the literary woman
of our Church does not cast mud in the shape
of envious sneers and cutting sarcasms upon a
sister writer when she sees her sitting upon a
higher pedestal than she herself occupies, and
also is consequent the fact that there is no
wholly contrasting sentiments between these
writers, no strife, no severely contradictory
ideas, but all, each in her own way, expounds
the same doctrine and teaches the same truths.
These women are, of course, the same as all
other persons who attempt to give their views
for the public benefit, criticised most sharply,
and many times stingingly severe, by those
who have no aspirations to become literary
and cannot understand the motives that prompt
others to be so. There are some who still
cling to the old fogy idea that a woman must
not look beyond the cooking, churning, darn-
ing, ironing, etc., that belong to the catalogue
of house keeping attainments, if she does she
is out of her sphere.
	I've heard it said of a writer, "She does not
practice in her own life that that she points out
as good, and for the benefit of others." I've
heard the same said of a speaker who has en-
deavored, while standing before a congregation,
to give the words of life to the people, and I
felt sorry for the ignorance of those who said
it.
	Our actions in private life have, of course,
much to do with our influence abroad, but the
person is to be pitied who has the weakness to
allow such a spirit of unjust criticism to creep
into his heart to break the influence of the
good spirit that might reign there, and thus
cause him to turn a careless ear to the teach-
ings of God, because given through one whose
private life was not wholly in keeping with the
divine truths that the spirit of God prompted
him to teach to them. It is a pity that this
spirit of false prejudice and evil opinion so rife
in the world, and from which we, as a people,
have suffered so much, should find place
among us. Many people of the world have
refused to have the Gospel of Jesus Christ
taught to them because of what they had
heard and thought they knew of the lives of
the people who offered to teach it to them.
	We are glad to see that this spirit of false
prejudice is being dispelled from the minds of
the Latter-day Saints. The Gospel has loosen-
ed the yoke of error, and given birth to a
brighter light, and Zion's people are not slow
to avail themselves of the liberty it gives. But


to return to our subject, these missionaries of
the Gospel at home, who send their loving,
peaceful, and soul inspiring consolation to us
through their writings. Their words find their
way to the homes of those upon whose lives
the sunlight of Tennyson, Bryant and others
of their kind, has never shone, and carry with
them a testimony and influence that lightens
their hearts and strengthens their souls as no
uninspired words can do.
	Once, in conversation with a lady on the
subject of Utah's literature, she said, "You
may talk about the inspiration that directs
your people, but if there is aught of inspira-
tion with them your women possess their share
of it, as is shown in the beautiful poems which
some of them have written, many of which
carry with them a soul-awakening influence.
One of the principal ones that has attracted
my attention is that little poom by Mrs. E. R.
Snow, addressed to her Heavenly Father,
which seems to have more of inspiration in it
than anything I've heard from the few speakers
of your Church to whom I've listened. It
carried a conviction of its truth to my mind
from the time when I first heard it."
	And it is certainly a fact that the writings
of these women of Utah, which are dictated
by the voice of inspiration, will find their way
into the houses of many people, and their in-
fluence will find a place and leave their impres-
sions on the hearts that might otherwise re-
main in darkness with regard to the things of
light.
	The Lord has called upon all His children
to labor in the field of His harvest, and is not
this call made to the women as well as the men?
It certainly is. There is a work and a mighty
one depending upon the women in Zion. They
are working for the redemption of their race,
and the welfare of woman in the succeeding
generations depends on her faithfulness in ad-
hering to those holy and elevating principles
given to her through the Gospel of Christ, and
her labors must be strong and without ceasing.
In the language of one of our bretheren I
would say, "The great issue at stake in this bat-
tle between the mighty powers of truth and
error seems enough to animate the very
stones."
	Then how can woman, who is so actively
engaged in this great warfare for the right,
help feeling this animation when she sees that
her eternal welfare depends upon her conquer-
ing and overcoming the evil one. Then why
should she be mute when God calls upon her
through His Spirit to talk, teach, or write the
things of His Kingdom? Then shall she hesi-
tate to lift the pen when she feels there is need
of it because she has temporal duties to call
her attention, or because she is unlearned in
letters? No, no more than shall that Elder be
justified who allows the same things to prevent
him from giving a warning voice to the world
when he has the opportunity. And while the
women in Zion adhere to the principles of their
faith and live by the words of the Gospel, giv-
en through revelation, they will continue to
grow in strength and teach with power, and
their voice will be heard in the land in spite of
every effort of Satan to hinder them by false
prejudice, slander or vile reproaches.
									M.


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Emerson once said to Mrs. Helen Jackson
("H. H.") that she stood on the threshold of a
great achievement. The large and increasing
circle of her readers are doubtless satisfied that
Mr. Emerson's prophecy was fulfilled years
ago; if any doubt remained, it would certainly
be removed by the beauty, pathos and power
of Mrs. Jackson's story "Ramona," no being
published in the Christian Union, 20 Lafayette
Place, New York. For dramatic interest, nar-
rative skill and deep feeling no story of recent
years has equalled it.—Ex.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Sister Emma Pike of Logan, Primary President of
the 5th Ward, received at her house, on Friday, the
20th, a very pleasant party in behalf of her mother,
Sister Barber, who is confined to the house through
sickness; she had reached the age of 75 years. Our noble
"mothers in Israel." Sisters Presendia L. Kimball and
Minerva W. Snow, wife of Apostle Erastus snow, came
to cheer and comfort her with their presence.
 When they were comfortably seated the sound of
fresh young joyous voices broke upon the car, singing
the Primary song, "In our lovely Deseret." Our Prim-
ary children had gathered at the house of Sister Liver-
more, and led by her came to greet Grandma Barber on
her birth-day. They brought many good things to eat,
besides some little gifts for her. A song was sung
then prayer by Sister Snow, and another song. Following
were recitations, songs and extempore congratulations
and addresses by our children who beautified by hap-
piness, looked like a bevy of angels.
 Sister Kimball then spoke to the company; first con-
gratulating Sister Barber on having lived three-quarters
of a century; poured out upon her comfort and blessings,
and prayed that when she had lived as long as life was
desirable she might fall asleep without suffering, as in
the arms of Jesus. Then addressing the children she
said intelligence adn purity shone in their faces, and
they looked bright and very lovely. Spoke of their fu-
ture, told them how many fields of labor were open for
both boys and girls. Instructed them how to become
worthy to fill higher duties as they advanced in life.
Spoke on the order and beauty of celestial marriage,
and bore testimony to its elevating influence. Urged
the necessity for constant prayer to keep them near to
our Father in heaven, and to be kept virtuous and pure
that they may continue to be beautiful.
 Sister Snow then said the presence of the Primary
children always melted her to tenderness. She said we
have our Primaries at St. George. I shall never forget
you and this interview. I have felt great pleasure in
listeing to your songs and the various exercises, and
shall, when I return home, tell our children about you.
We labor in the Temple of the Lor. In a little while
we who are older will pass away, and you young ladies
and little girls will be called to fill our places. Will
you all be prayerful and very obedient, gentle and kind
to your parents, to the aged loving and helpful, and
true and faithful always? The boys will also have to
fill high offices; they will be presidents, apostles, high
priests or seventies, and they will have to carry the
Gospel to the natiosn of the earth, therefore learn while
you are young to become good speakers. In your
Primaries you will secure your first lessons: be thank-
ful to our Heavenly Father for these opportunities and
improve them. Be puncual in attendance; be attentive
and teachable so you may become wise and noble.
Sister Snow bore her testimony to the principle of ce-
lestial marriage; said she had lived in it over forty years,
and would not sell her experience for anything , and told
the children to be very careful in speaking of it. Said
they would better understand its noble results when
they were older. These, and many other good things
were siad, and the pleasant meeting was dismissed with
prayer.
 Then the children sat down to a good suppre and
were afterward dismissed. The grown people took sup-
per, and were waited upon by the young ladies of our
Primary, and when we separated for the night we
thought it a pleasang end to a happy birth-day party.

ELIZABETH L. WILSON CROWTHER.

Logan, June 23rd, 1884.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 25c.per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c. "
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00 "
	“	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25 "	
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 	1.50 “
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS ASD DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE 15 GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hoursfrom 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
TelephonicCommnnlatlon between Office and Lesidence.
ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
it	1
Sprint and Summer Goods,
AKD LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1884.	No. 5.


THE OLD PIANO.

How still and dusky is the long-closed room!
What lingering shadows and what faint perfume
Of Eastern treasures—sandal wood and scent
With nard and cassia and with roses blent.
		Let in the sunshine.
Quaint cabinets are here, boxes and fans,
And hoarded letters full of hopes and plans.
I pass them by. I came once more to see
The old piano, dear to memory,
		In past days mine.

Of all sad voices from forgotten years
It is the saddest; see what tender tears
Drop on the yellow keys as, soft and slow,
I play some melody of long ago.
		How strange it seems!
The thin, weak notes that once were rich and strong,
Give only now the shadow of a song.
The dying echo of a fuller strain,
That I shall never, never hear again,
		Unless in dreams.

What hands have touched it!  Fingers soft and white,
Since stiff and weary with life's toil and fight;
Dear clinging hands that long have been at rest;
Folded serenely on a quiet breast.
		Only to think,
O white, sad notes, of all the pleasant days,
The happy songs, the hymns of holy praise,
The dreams of love and youth that round you cling!
Do they not make each sighing, trembling string
		A mighty link!

All its musicians gone beyond recall.
The beautiful, the loved, where are they all?
Each told its secrets, touched its keys and wires
To thoughts of many colors and desires.
		With whispering fingers;
All are silent now, the farewell said,
The last song sung, the last tear sadly shed;
Yet love has given it many dreams to keep
In this lone room where only shadows creep
		And silence lingers.

The old piano answers to my call,
And from my fingers lets the lost notes fall.
O soul that I have loved, with heavenly birth
Wilt thou not keep the memory of earth, 
		Its smiles and sighs?
Shall wood and metal and white ivory
Answer the touch of love with melody,
And thou forget? Dear one, not so,
I move thee yet (though how I may not know.)
		Beyond the skies.
								HARPER'S BAZAR.


﻿A VISIT TO KENI[-]WORTH.

	How well I remember the dawning of that
lovely June morning on which I, with a party
of friends and fellow travelers, set out to visit
the famous ruins of Kenilworth, renowned in
history as one of England’s oldest ruins, and
the seat of many historical and tragic events;
endeared to all lovers of romance (and who of
us but has some romance in his nature?), by
Sir Walter Scott's beautiful tale, of which poor
Amy Robsart is the heroine.  Well, between
history and romance I was on the qui vive for
a thorough inspection of all that remained of
this famous castle.
	We lodged the night previous at a most pic-
turesque inn; and as we set out on horseback
with a guide attending, the fresh morning
breeze, the twittering of birds, and the sun just
rising over the green hills, formed so perfect a
day and so invigorated all, that had I been an
observer of the party it would not have been a

[Column 2]
very great stretch of imagination to have sup-
posed us some gay cavalcade of a past age on
a visit to a lordly entertainment. It was but
a short ride before the massive structure ap-
peared to our view; and as we slowly ap-
proached it, the appearance in that lovely
morning light was beautiful beyond my power
of description.
	Built of sandstone, time had mellowed the
color to a soft and most exquisite grey; the
green hills beyond, the blue sky above, photo-
graphed in my mind the loveliest of pictures,
each tint so blended with the other, that na-
ture left naught that could be desired.  The
complete ruin of the castle had a gothic ap-
pearance, though history tells us the large and
massive "keep," which was the citadel of the
castle, bore the name of Caesar. But no matter
when founded, let antiquaries quarrel over that,
we will gaze our fill at the huge grey ruin that
lies before us. It is composed of a gigantic pile
of castellated buildings, from their structural
design, apparently of different ages, surround-
ing an inner court. But I anticipate; we were
told by our guide that the outer wall of this
splendid castle enclosed seven acres, a part of
which was occupied in times past by extensive
stables and a large pleasure garden; but there
are now no traces of its trimmed arbors, beauti-
ful lawns and choice flowers, once lovely to be-
hold.
	The noble castle itself, which is in the centre
of this enclosure, was composed of a huge pile
of magnificent buildings, as I said before, sur-
rounding an inner court, each bearing an ap-
propriate name.  The external wall of this roy-
al castle was bounded by a partly artificial
lake, over which at the time of the haughty
Leicester’s residence here he had caused to be
constructed a beautiful bridge, that on the oc-
casion of Queen Elizabeth’s visit here she
might enter by a new way.  Beyond this lake
is a tract of land covered with lofty trees, be-
fore which the ruins are outlined in majesty
and beauty.  The lake is now a rushy swamp;
the trees which once were trimmed to stand ma-
jestically in the open air, now interlace their
branches so thickly that the sun’s rays scarce
penetrate to the ground.
	As I stood enraptured in the scene before
me, there came to my mind the exquisite sen-
timent of Sir Walter Scott, where he tells us,
“The massive ruins of the castle only tend to
show what the splendor once was, and to im-
press on the musing visitor the transitory val-
ue of human possessions and the happiness of
those who enjoy a humble lot in virtuous con-
tentment.”
	But I must not stop to quote, for we have
but the day before us, and there is still much
to see.  The famous (we might almost call it)
Elizabethan Bridge has fallen into decay, so
we were obliged to enter as commoners, by the
usual way.  The gate house which Leicester
erected on the north, still exists, and is a castle
in itself, of most beautiful architectural design.
Next we go to the Gallery Tower, which de-
rives its name from the bridge extending to the
opposite building, called Martiner’s Tower,
where ladies were wont to gather to witness
the feats of chivalry, for on the opposite side
of the lake, between these two, was a tilt yard,
defended on either side by strong and high
palisades.  Erom here we pass to the inner
court of the castle, entered by the great gate-
way which is between Caeser's tower and the

[Column 3]
grand building known as King Henry’s Lodg-
ing. This is in the very midst of these grey-
walled ruins, which represent the magnificent
specimens of architecture from the Conquest to
the time of Elizabeth.  Across this inner court
there was shown to us a small tower, the upper
part of which was reached by narrow, winding
stairs where there was a small room, generally
said to have been used for the confinement of
some unhappy person who was there murdered.
It was called the Tower of Nervyn, the legend
telling that Nervyn died here. From the small
window of the chamber could be seen what
was called the “Pleasance,” a small space of
ground ornamented with arches, statues, foun-
tains and architectural monuments, now mostly
fallen to decay. We were told that this was
the room where the beautiful Amy Robsart
had lodged when she escaped from Cumor Hall
to Kenilworth.
	The lovely twilight of this country was steal-
ing upon us.
	“The dews of summer night did fall;
		The moon, sweet regent of the sky,
	Silvered the walls of Kenilworth,
		And many an oak that grew hereby.”
ere we could bear to tear ourselves away.
	DAISY.


﻿“The Number Seven.—Hippocrates says the
septenary number, by its occult virtues, tends
to the accomplishment of all things, and is the
fountain of all the changes in life; and, like
Shakespeare, he divided the life of man into
seven ages.  The teeth spring out in the 7th
month or sooner, and are shed and renewed in
the 7th year, when infancy is fully changed
into childhood; at twice 7 years puberty begins;
at 3 times 7 years the adolescent faculties are
developed, manhood commences, and men be-
come legally competent to all civil acts; at 4
times 7 man is in full possession of all his
strength; at 5 times 7 he is fit for all the busi-
ness of the world; at 6 times 7 he becomes
wise, if ever; at 7 times 7 he is in his apogee,
and from that time decays; at 8 times 7 he is in
his first climacteric; at 9 times 7, or 63, he is in
his last or grand climacteric; and at 10 times
7, or three-score and ten, he has approached
the normal period of life.”
	The Massachusetts Medical Society in its
one hundred and third anniversary meeting,
held in Boston, June 10th and 11th, voted to
amend the by-laws so as to admit women.
	“At four o’clock an adjourned meeting of
the Society was held. After a long and ani-
mated discussion the Society voted to amend
the by-laws so as to admit women to the Socie-
ty. This action to become effective must be
concurred in by the Councillors, and a com-
mittee was appointed to present the wishes of
the Society to that body in the evening. Even-
ing reception. At 5 p.m. a reception and colla-
tion were tendered to the members of the Socie-
ty by the Medical Faculty of Harvard Univer-
sity at the new Medical College, and the new
building was exhibited. In the evening the
usual annual meeting of Councillors was held
at the Medical Library, and the question of
the admission of women was discussed and act-
ed upon.  The action of the Society in the af-
ternoon session was sustained, and in the future
women will be admitted on the same terms as
men.  This ends the struggle that has been go-
ing on for several years."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A DAY-DREAM.

IN TWO PARTS.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART FIRST.

	At this moment the eldest boy said,
"Pa, I wish the members of Congress
could have heard ma and Aunt Katie last night
when they read that in the Deseret News.  I
believe they would have felt very small; I 
know I would." "I am glad, my son, we do
not belong to hat honorable body, for we
would be in bad repute with your ma and
Aunt Katie." Here the young girl with the
blue eyes spoke. "Now, pa, you must not make
fun of ma and Aunt Eliza; you know they are
right, you are just as indignant as they are
sometimes.,' "True, my daughter, I am.  I
also think that many of the leading men of 
this nation are going mad over Mormonism."
"I think, pa, that men holding such responsible
positions should be very wise and good." "Yes, 
my daughter; they should not only be wise and
good, but they should adhere strictly to the
rules of the Constitution left us by our fathers."
"True, Edward," said Eliza, "but they do not;
and I think the policy of the leaders of our
nation is destructive to their own interests, for
when they take away our rights, it is but the
death knell of their own." "Pa, do you think
it is because of the plurality of wives that the
world speak evil of us?" "No, my son, the
world care nothing about plurality.  It is this 
latter-day work that they are arraying them-
selves against.  Their master, the evil one,
knows that his time is short, and he is stirring
up his most valiant emissaries to prolong his
rule; but he is short-sighted, and the very
course he takes to continue his reign only tends
to shorten it." "I think you are right, Ed-
ward; I often feel annoyed with the members
of Congress, and am surprised at their lack of
good common sense; but I realize that they are
used by the Lord to bring about His mighty
purposes. The world is fast going to decay.
The blood of Prophets and Apostles cries to the
Lord for vengeance.  I believe the time is
near when He will come and take vengeance
on the wicked."
	"Girls, did you read Mr. Mc.Bride's criti-
cism on Bro. Thatcher's article, published in the
Inter Ocean, and Apostle Thatcher's answer?"
"Yes, Edward," said Katie, "we did; and were 
very much surprised that an educated man and
an attorney should have written anything so
illogical and ungentlemanly.  Let me read a
little from his article." Here she rose and
came into the sitting room, took a copy of the
Deseret News from the table and returned.
"Listen, he says: 'It is not often that we bunch
the game so as to make one shot do effective
service, and now that the opportunity offers to
make Mr. Thatcher suffer for the Washington
Mormon agents in general, I propose to cruci-
fy this bantling of the crowd.  For him per-
sonally I have the same pity that follows weak
sinners who are the dupes of stronger men.
In the language of the Western Hunter, I do
not intend to leave enough of this normal of-
fender to warrant any effort to skin him for
future use by any one.' Mr. Mc.Bride further
states that although Brother Thatcher assumes
the authorship and responsibility of this letter,
it took ten or a dozen of our most talented men
to compose it.  But this is a sort of clap-trap
assertion to bias the minds of the readers of
the Inter Ocean against our worthy brother.  I
wonder who came to the assistance of Mr. Mc.-
Bride in getting up his violent tirade. The 
first part of his article appears to me like the
egotistic spluttering of an untutored school
boy. Instead of our brother being skinned, it
had no more effect upon him than the braying

[Column 2]
of an ungentlemanly d-o-n-k-e-y." Said Eliza,
"Only for truth's sake, and for the benefit of
the people generally did Apostle Thatcher con-
descend to notice this most conceited Shylock.
With what dignity does he answer the bom-
bastic charges of the learned attorney. No
slang. No threats. Sarcastic and satirical, I
will admit; but withal gentlmanly, and backed
up with undeniable facts—proving by living
records the truth of his statements. If such
are 'bantlings,' what giants in mind must be
our leaders who have reached maturity. On
the part of Mr. Mc.Bride, how full of low egot-
ism are the breathings of his pious soul." "Eli-
za, my wife, you state my sentiments exactly.
The attorney also charges the Mormons with
peculiarly enjoying the luxury of lying which
finds no illustration by others. He forgets that
he and his colleagues in Salt Lake have for
their organ the most filthy and untrouthful pa-
per on the earth." "Indeed they have, Ed-
ward, the attorney also doubts the assertion of
Apostle Thatcher, that thousands in Utah feel
contempt for his Honor, the Governor, and in-
sinuates that our feelings are more sinister than
mere contempt. Yet, notwithstanding the
great erudition and superior mathematical
qualifications of the handsome Murray, we
can assure the Hon. Mc Bride, that contempt
and pity are the only feelings the Latter-day
Saints have for his Excellency."
	Here Katie, whose blue eyes had been
sparkling with fun, started to her feet, said
she, "Listen; I am going to make a speech.
Now, Jenny, I am Mr. Mc.Bride, and you will
hear his sentiments.  I think I hear him now:
'Gentleman and Ladies:—You see be-
fore you the oldest of living bantams.  One
who knows the Mormons from beginning to
end, from the secrets of their Endowment
House to the innermost chambers of their ha-
rems.  Not that I was ever there, the Lord for-
bid; only I have been posted on these matters
by that much abused and virtuous woman, Ann
Eliza. I am, my brethren, by profession a
hard shelled Baptist; but being a lawyer I am
always on the qui vive to hunt up the myster-
ies of the kingdom. As I said before, I am a
hard shelled Baptist, and my pious soul yearns
for the flesh pots of Egypt. I lay awake nights
dreaming of the full coffers of the Mormon
treasury. I pray to my Lord, earnestly, that
I may be chosen one of the trustees of this
most abominable church; that I may fill my
pockets with her worthless gold and my house
with her beauteous daughters. Not, my be-
loved friends, that I love their filthy lucre, or
wish for the favors of the fair sex. No, my
respected friends, I am too lowly of mind and
too virtuous for that, but that I might be the
savor of life and salvation to these poor, be-
nighted people. So let us put on the armor of
David, our great ancestor, and with a sling and
a stone strike these modern Philistines in the
back part of their heads, that we may save their
money and women from further pollution. Let
Murray be our watchword, and, in the lan-
guage of the Western Hunter and that gigan-
tic cuttle fish, let us not leave these bantams
even their skin for fear they may appear as
the shadow of their former selves, to take away
our liberty and our rights." Here a little fel-
low of twelve years clapped his hands and
said, "Oh, pa, I wish Mr. Mc.Bride could hear
ma! I do not think he would talk any more
of things he knows nothing about." "My son,
I do not know whether you are competent to
make such an assertion." "Now, pa, you know
I can read very well. I received the first prize
for reading in my class; and when I hear ma
and Aunt Eliza talk of what is in the papers, I
read for myself; and I do not think people
would talk as they do if they knew more about
us." "I know, my son, you are a good reader,
but I did not think your young mind could grasp
so much; and I think you do not understand

[Column 3]
the craft of our enemies, nor can you compre-
hend the depths of the wickedness of these men
to pervert the truth." "The gentleman says,
pa, that our woman hold no property. Now,
I know that Brother H—has given all his
wives the deeds of their homes. And you
would do the same, pa, but we all live together
so you cannot.  No matter, for it all belongs
to ma and Aunt Katie, anyhow; eh, pa?" "I 
expect you are right, my son, they own the
home and us, too.  Not only Brother H—,
but hundreds of others have given deeds of
their homes to their wives; and so does this le-
gal gentleman know; but his memory is very
treacherous, as his article on the Mormon
problem plainly shows."
	As I listened to this spirited conversation,
and saw the flash of the eye, the curl of the
lip, the independent, dignified poise of the
heads of those plural wives, I was lost in
admiration, and thought that they needed no
pity from women who suppose themselves their
superiors.
	I was much amused at their sarcastic re-
marks, the contempt and fun they manifested
over the pros and cons of the press and the 
speeches of the members of Congress concern-
ing Utah, and the little fear they have in ref-
erence to their future. Trusting in God, they
manifested their patriotism, and an earnest de-
sire to obey all the laws given by the fathers
of this once free and happy country.  I could
not but think that men having such brave,
fearless, law-abiding, God-fearing wives and 
children must be worthy of being law-makers,
and consequently citizens of a state, instead of
disfranchised members of a territory.
To be Continued.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On Wednesday, July 30, a meeting was held
in the Eighth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sister
Esther B. Fletcher presiding. Bishop Sheets
and Counselor Mc.Murrain were on the stand,
also Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, Phebe Wood-
ruff, M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, 
Bathsheba W. Smith and E.B. Wells. Sister
Catherine Palmer, Annie Cross and Jane Cow-
an, also occupied seats on the platform. Sev-
eral excellent speeches were made, and topics
of interest ably treated upon by the ladies who
addressed the meeting, and also by the Bishop
and his Counselor, who endorsed the remarks
that had been made, and also gave sound ad-
vice to mothers in regard to training their 
children At the close of the meeting all the
assembly sat down to a bounteous repast, which
had been prepared and arranged under the di-
rection of a committee of four, all ladies of 
tact and ability in this direction. Sisters Sar-
ah Jane Chamberlain, Jane Cowan, Mary Go-
lightly and Eliza P. Frost. The tables looked
very handsome; there were beautiful fresh flow-
ers and baskets of luscious fruits, snowy linen
and everything daintily set out, but the charm-
ing young girls who waited at table were more
beautiful to look upon than all the rest. There
were seven of them flitting about and making
a picture one would never tire looking at. The
whole affair was a most complete success, and
cannot fail to have a good effect upon all who
participated in the enjoyment of the reunion.
	We have reports from St. George, Sanpete
Stake and Salt Lake Stake that are crowded
out of this issue.
	A biographical sketch of Patty Sessions of
Bountiful will be commenced in our next num-
ber.
	By a letter from Sister M. A. Hyde of
Spring City, we learn that the next Conference
of Relief Society, Y. L. M.I A. and P.A. of
Sanpete Stake will be held at Fountain Green,
commencing the 12th of September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

	[Continued.]
Slowly she went; where next toil 
For shelter and for daily bread?
For ev’ry path seemed rank with sin,
	Virtue seemed helpless, vice her foe,
The skies were dark again o’erhead;
	“Father,” she prayed, “where shall I go?”

That night, within the humble room	
Where the few Saints in worship met,
'Twas asked, “How many can prepare
	To go to Zion far away?"
Her face with joyous tears was wet,
	“I’m ready, though it were to-day.”

For in her soul like hunger grew	
The wish to leave the world behind,
To gather to the fountain head
	And, ’mid congenial spirits, lend
Labors of hand and heart combined
	Towards the Gospel’s glorious end.

Without regret, with sacred joy,
She turned in sweet relief and rest;
Familiar faces, life-long scenes,
	Allurements, splendors, swiftly passed
Adown the stream, while upward pressed
	The bark in which her all was cast.

Ah, wondrous pilgrimage is this!
Stranger than Araby’s own charm
That leads the cloud-wrapt tribes;
	Not superstitious fear, but light, 
Leads them to God’s all-mighty arm
	From out the world’s long, weary night.

At last “the City of the Saints”		
Spread out before herlonging eyes,
And strangers met her, yet she knew
	That friendship in the Gospel’s bond
Was stronger far than kindred ties,
	And anchored in the great Beyond.

Friends came to meet the pilgrim Saints,
And as she gave the parting hand
To each, ’twas not with sadness, doubt;
	She knew the God that led her here,
All needful good for her had planned,
	And trusted Him with faith sincere.

Then the good missionary, that
Teacher and guardian had been,
Came with a lady.	’Twas a face
	Of noble beauty, tender, too;
'Sister Virginia, here’s a friend
	Extends a welcome unto you;

  Her home, companionship and care
Will meet your young life’s earnest need;
Trust in her counsel, for I know
	No kindlier heart, no nobler mind;
	In bearing, spirit, word and deed,
	True woman and true Saint combined.”

He led Virginia by the hand
To where the lady waited near,
And as she bowed, a white hand took
	Her own; a sweet voice gently said,
“Welcome to Zion, sister dear,”
	And to the waiting carriage led

The pilgrim girl.  “Brother, come, too.
Come spend the evening and relate
Your travels and your work, and help
	Our young friend here to ward away
The sense of desertion that plight await
	Since parting from her friends to-day.”

He bowed acceptance, turned and gave  
Some brief instruction to his men,  
Entered the carriage and they moved
	Out from the yard and down the street,
Past crowded marts of business, then
	Halted before a garden sweet

With blooming flowers and ample lawn;
In background rose an orchard old,
And ’round the cottage porch festooned
	Sweet honeysuckles; roses wreathed
Around the windows wide, and told 
	Home’s praise by ev’ry perfume breathed.

Standing beneath the group of trees 
Beside the gateway, this fair home 
Seemed to the weary wanderer
	The fairest spot on earth's brown breast;

[Column 2]
Here no regretful sigh should come,
	Ungrateful of its peace and rest.

Within, what comfort seemed to reach
From easy chairs and mellow light; 
The centre table well supplied,
	The autumn fire, that seemed to speak
Warmth and glad welcome, till the white'
	Rose turned to red upon her cheek.

Then, as the twilight deeper fell
And shadows lost themselves in shade,
Another entered.	Fond the smile
	That met his wife’s, with pleasure true
Welcomed the Elder home, and made
	Virginia feel as welcome too.


[Column 1]
	MEDITATIONS.

	I feel happy to-day while alone meditating
on the work of the Kingdom of God in this
dispensation. The more I think about it the
more beautiful it appears. I am led to say,
"God moves in a mysterious way," but when our
understandings are enlightened by the Spirit
of the Lord we can see things that we never
could have seen or understood. What would
the outside world give to-day if they could un-
derstand the principles of the Gospel as we do?
Would they seek to harm us? They would not.
Then ought we not to try and live in obedience
to the commandments of our Father in heaven?
Though all the world be arrayed against
us it does not hurt us in the least, or change
the belief of our knowledge of what we know
to be true. When our Father in heaven shows
us through the gift of His Holy Spirit that the
order of plural marriage is right and accept-
able in His sight, how can we say in our hearts
that we cannot comply with the commands of
that God, who holds and controls all things ac-
cording to His own will. Who has the right
on earth to question our Heavenly Father for
giving a revelation to His servant Joseph
Smith for His sons and daughters to obey, that
they might return to His presence from whence
they came? I can say with an honest heart
that that principle was made clear to my under-
standing by the spirit and power of the Holy
Ghost, and not by the preaching or teaching
of any human being. We cannot enter into
the presence of our Heavenly Father unless
we obey the celestial law when we have a
knowledge of it. And who in this wide
world has any right to trifle with our conscience?
I answer no one; and when they undertake to
try they never make any headway, and they
never will. The outside influence does not
trouble us. Why do our enemies try to frust-
trate the principles and desires of heaven? We
cannot help believing and putting into prac-
tice what we know to be true, and they are
throwing away time when they try to make us
comply with their wicked plans, for when the
Saints are filled and guided by the Spirit of the
living God and Father of our spirits, what
have we to fear? I say nothing but our own
dear selves, and if we all endeavor to save one
there is no cause for fear.
	There is no power beneath the heavens that
will prevent the Latter-day Saints from obey-
ing the order of celestial marriage, and from
living and increasing in numbers; nothing but
our own unfaithfulness will ever deprive us of
that great blessing, for it is a blessing above
anything that we can comprehend. 
	If we live true to the commandments of God
I think by the time they imprison a few more
of our brave young sisters they will find they
cannot make them afraid of anything. Young
sisters, be true to yourselves, your religion and
your God, and though all evil power may be
arrayed against you, not one hair of your head
shall be harmed.
	It is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to
send petitions up to our Heavenly Father in
behalf of breathren and sisters who are in bond-

[Column 2]
age for the Gospel's sake, that they may be
firm and strong in their determination never to
betray any of the Lord's anointed. Feel proud
that you are worthy to suffer tribulation for
the truth's sake. Know ye that your reward is
in heaven. Our enemies are in the hands of
God, and He will do with them as it pleaseth
him. He is the same God that delivered His
servant Daniel from the lion's mouth and the
three Hebrew children from the fiery furnace.
The time will come when the bonds will be
broken and prison doors be opened by the
Spirit and power of the Lord God of Israel,
and then, vain man, where will be your power
and your pride? It will fall to rise no more.
Our Heavenly Father fully understands your
plans, and He knows how to thwart them, for
He has done so in times past and He will con-
tinue to do so until the kingdoms of this world
are overthrown and become the kingdoms of
our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Saints of the
Most High God will possess the kingdom for
ever and ever, and this is why we can afford to
suffer persecution, and, like the Apostle Paul,
we rejoice in tribulation.
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1884,


We acknowledge receipt of the Circular of the
Brigham Young Academy for the Ninth Aca-
demic year, 1884—1885. The Circular gives
a Historical Review in brief of the institution
and specifies each department. Karl G. Maeser
is the Principal of the Academy, which is in
charge  of a Board of Trustees. This high
school is select and is one of the best in the
country, and should receive the patronage and
support of the people of the Territory.

	Sisters M. I. Horne, J. S. Richards and E.
S. Taylor have returned from an extended trip
through Sevier Stake, having held 22 meetings
and traveled by team 250 miles. In our next
we will try to give a sketch of their travels
and labors; also some others of the sisters' jour-
neyings among the people.

	Before his death Charles Reade wrote the
following epitaph, which is about to be placed
on his tomb:—
Here Lie,
By the side of his Beloved Friend, the mortal
remains of
CHARLES READE,
Dramatist, Novelist, and Journalist.
His last words to mankind are on this stone.

	I hope for a Resurrection, not from any
power in Nature, but from the Will of the
Lord God Omnipotent, Who made Nature and
me. He created Man out of Nothing, which
Nature could not. He can restore Man from
the Dust, which Nature cannot.
	And I hope for Holiness and Happiness in a
Future Life, not from anything I have aid or
done in the body, but from the Merits and Me-
diation of Jesus Christ.
	He has promised His Intercession to All
who Seek it, and He will not break His Word;
that Intercession once granted cannot be re-
jected for He is God, and His Merits Infinite:
A man's sins are but humble and finite.
	"Him that cometh to Me, I will in no wise cast out."
	"If any man sin we have an advocate with
the Father, Jesus Christ, the Righteous, and
He is the propitiation of our sins.”
	No one who knew Charles Reade will doubt
the sincerity of this profession of faith. It is
curious that he describes himself as dramatist
first.  His novels are his best works, but he
longed, above all things, for the fame of a play-
wright.”


36	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
﻿MRS. ANGIE F. NEWMAN'S CRUSADE
AGAINST THE MORMONS.

	Our readers will doubtless remember the
mention made in the EXPONENT of Nov. 15th
ult., of a meeting held in Cincinnati at which
Mrs. Angie F. Newman of Nebraska, spoke up-
on the Mormon question, and described the con-
dition of the women of Utah, thereby creating
"a strong feeling of interest in behalf of the
down-trodden, ignorant creatures," and quite a
large sum of money was raised for the purpose
of establishing an industrial school. Subse-
quently a petition was drawn up and on the 16th
of June, 1884, presented in the United States
Senate by Senator Hoar of Mass.
	In May, Mrs. Newman visited Salt Lake
City, and soon after her arrival called at this
office and also at the office of the Deseret News.
Immediately after receiving her we showed her
the EXPONENT which contained extracts from
the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, and from
the Cincinnati Inquirer. She seemed surprised,
and after looking at the paper stated that she
obtained her information from Ann Eliza
Young, her books, etc., whereas in her lecture
in Cincinnati she said, "I have spent much time
in Utah." She denied having said, "Every
house in Utah is a house of prostitution." This
was all, however, that she declared to be un-
true in the reporter's statements.
	Mrs. Newman, in conversation, said she had
come to Utah to see for herself, and to examine
the subject and doctrines of the "Mormon"
Church. She is a very intelligent lady, a woman
of wealth, position and influence in the world,
and is no doubt capable of doing great good for
her own sex and in society if she would devote
her energies in the proper channel, but she has
taken hold of a matter she can never handle to
do herself any credit, nor will she do the women
of Utah any particular harm. Some very
pointed and spirited articles were written by
young women (plural wives), in answer to Mrs.
Newman, and were published in December and
January last in the EXPONENT. These papers
were sent to women of influence in the world
and to several members of Congress, in order
that the false statements which had been made
publicly might be refuted.
	When Mrs. Newman came here she was not
aware that the Latter-day Saint women knew
that she had lectured on their status and condi-
tion, and seemed much surprised that we knew
of it. She met, while in this office, Bishop O.
F. Whitney and Bishop H. B. Clawson, and
both these gentleman talked with her on the
subject in which she had manifested so much
interest. She said she should call again to have
some further conversation and to get informa-
tion on our subject, but she never came.
	I suppose her time was wholly occupied in cir-

[Column 2]
culating the petition she brought with her, and
in making the necessary arrangements for get-
ting the matter before Congress. No doubt she
received very efficient help from clergymen and
others here, for it seems she succeeded in her en-
terprise. Mrs. Newman knows very well that
the women of Utah do not need any assistance
such as she or her friends can render them, that
their condition is that of contentment and pros-
perity.
	We give below the petition in full, in order
that our readers may know its full intent. La-
dies interested in the suffrage movement in the
States have written us asking information con-
cerning the course pursued in Utah by the
women who favored this petition, and denounc-
ing in very strong terms the action on the part
of any woman to take away the right of suff-
rage.
	A leading woman in one of the most influ-
ential States in the union "denounces the Ed-
munds bill as the vilest outrage upon the Ameri-
can women, and one which deserves to be
stricken from the calendar of the United States
Congress."
	Another says, "Is it true that the opposing
women of Utah have asked such an outrage?"
and then asks for information concerning the
movements made, and so on.

ANTI--"MORMON" PETITIONS.

PETITION NO. 1.
PRESENTED IN THE U.S. SENATE, JUNE 16TH, 1884,
BY SENATOR HOAR.
TO THE HONORABLE THE SENATE AND HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED
STATES.

	At the last annual meeting of the Woman's
Home Missionary Society of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, held in Cincinnati, Ohio,
Nov. 13th, the following resolutions were adop-
ted.
	Resolved: That a Committee be appointed to
confer with the civil and religious of Salt Lake,
and to make careful investigation of the relation
of the ballot in the hands of the women of Utah,
to Territorial legislation and to Congressional
Representation at the National Capital, and
above all as to its power to perpetuate the reli-
gious bondage and domestic slavery of the
women so enfranchised, and if upon such con-
ference and examination, they shall find the
facts to warrant, they shall draft a petition to
Congress for the disfranchisement of the women
of Utah.
	The committee appointed in pursuance of the
above resolution, having made the investigation
required, find that the women of Utah were en-
franchised by an Act, approved February 12,
1871, that the Act was passed by the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, all the mem-
bers of that body being men high in authority
in the Mormon Church, and that it is the testi-
mony of reliable witnesses, of the Territory who
are familiar with the facts, that the authorities
of the Mormon Church placed the ballot in the
hands of the women of Utah for the sole pur-
pose of neutralizing the votes of non-Mormons,
who at the date of this Act were settling in this
Territory in considerable numbers. The com-
mittee likewise find that under the provisions
of this Act aforesaid, which makes the wife of
a native born or naturalized citizen a legal voter,
foreign born women who have married citizens
within a few days or weeks of their arrival in
Utah are permitted to vote at elections occuring
less than six months after their arrival in this
country, and that many votes are thus cast at
every election by foreign born women who are
wholly ignorant of our institutions and laws,
and in many cases of our language. No subse-
quent law has changed these conditions except

[Column 3]
under the rulings of the Utah Commission they
must be six months resident. This committee
also find that the Mormon women thus enfran-
shised are bound by obligations which they con-
sider sacred to obey the authorities of the Mor-
mon Church in things temporal as well as spir-
itual, and that to cast a vote in opposition to the
will of these authorities is to incur the penalty
of excommunication. They also find that the
laws of Utah, which deprive the wife of the
right of dower, and of any claim upon the prop-
erty or earnings of her husband, give the hus-
band the power to punish the wife for disobedi-
ence, by depriving her of a home and of the
means of support; and as this power is and has
been exercised to compel women to submit to
to the introduction of plural wives into the
household, it is not reasonable to suppose that
a wife will risk the loss of a home and the
means of support by voting in opposition to the
commands of her husband and the authority of
the Church. The committee find further that
as a consequence of the subjection in which
Mormon women are held, they vote as a unit for
the men selected by the Church to fill all the
offices in the gift of the people. Should the act
conferring suffrage upon the women of Utah be
annulled, the power of the Mormon leaders
would be weakened by the loss of about 12,000
voters, and it would be possible in some instan-
ces to elect as county officers and members of
the Legislative Assembly, men who do not owe
primary allegiance to the Mormon Church. Un-
der existing conditions Mormon women perpet-
uate their own slavery by voting only for men
who can be relied upon to carry out the will of
the First Presidency of the Church. As mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly, and as county
and municipal officers, these men clothe the ex-
actions of the Church with the forms of law,
and cement the union of Church and State, and
through their Delegate to Congress and other-
wise they persistently oppose any legislation de-
signed to lessen the power of the Mormon
Priesthood. For the reasons above given your
petitioners therefore pray that the act conferring
the right of suffrage upon the women of Utah
be annulled.
	The names attached to this paper represent at
least 250,000 women of the different Christian
denominations in this country, through the offi-
ces of the several benevolent and philanthropic
associations included in the list.

PETITION NO 2.

Was presented in the Senate June 19, 1884, by
Senator Hoar.
	It is the same petition as No. 1, but signed
Mrs. Angie F. Newman, Supt. of Mission work
of the M. E. Church, Utah Territory.


OLD FOLKS EXCURSION, 1884.

	On the 22nd of July the Old Folks Excursion,
which, by the way, has come to be a regular
yearly occurence, went to American Fork.
There were about 600 passengers on board, and
plenty of cars to seat all comfortably and to take
on passengers at the several stations along the
route.
	The committee, of whom Elder C. R. Savage
is now acting chairman, In the absence of Elder
George Goddard, were in glorious spirits, and
determined the old folks should have a gala day.
An old folks choir (of young folks) led by W. H.
Foster, were on board and passed from one car
to another singing familiar, old fashioned songs
and melodies to gladden the hearts of the aged
veterans.
	The oldest lady on the train was Sister Mary
Bishop of the 10th Ward, aged 96 years, and the
oldest man brother, James Burgon of Union,
aged 91, Sister Almira Covey of the 12th Ward,


widow of Bishop Covey of this city, was remark-
able as being the oldest living member of the
Church now known; she was baptized in August,
1830, by David Whitmer, and confirmed by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was her own
cousin.
	Father Wilder, who is now a centurian, was
not quite equal to the journey this time, and
dear old Bishop Hunter, who has always before
seemed to appreciate the Old Folk's Excursion so
much, and thoroubhly enjoy the society of the
aged, has passed away since the last trip of the
company.
	All over ninety wore a badge of white ribbon,
over eighty wore blue, over seventy, red. There
were a considerable number wearing the blue,
and a great many wore red.
	Arrived at the depot the American Fork and
Pleasant Grove brass bands greeted the com-
pany with some soul-stirring music. Bishop
Bromley and his committee were on hand to
convey the people to Chipman's Grove, a short
distance away. On the route ten arches had
been erected, and covered with green boughs
and vines, and bearing the inscription, "Honor
to the Old Folks," "Welcome," etc. The grove
had been cleared and prepared with tables and
benches, also a platform and bowery for the
speakers, by a hundred and thirty young men
of the Y. L. M. I. A., under the direction of
Wm. W. Hunter, son of the late Bishop
Hunter.
	The exercises at the grove were very brief,
but pointed and spirited, calculated to bless and
comfort the aged. After singing and prayer
there was an address of Welcome by Bishop
Bromley, which was warm and heartfelt and
calculated to make all feel at home. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon made a very happy patriotic
speech, one that every good and loyal citizen
might respond to from his innermost soul. He
touched a very tender cord in the breasts of the
pioneer settlers of Utah. Apostle George Teas-
dale spoke forcibly and feelingly, and invoked
the blessing of God to descend upon the assem-
bly. T. A. Lyne, the veteran actor, once so
great a favorite on the boards of the Theatre, re-
cited a scene from William Tell, with a great deal
of the old fire and zeal in his manner, and indeed
it seemed an appropriate rendering. The meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer, and
the committee distributed prizes to the oldest
and those who were in any special manner enti-
tled to the honor. The prizes consisted of para-
sols, canes, hats, collars, teapots, dress patterns,
handkerchiefs, neckties, tea, tobacco, wine, and
various other things. The donations had been
liberal and the committee seemed well posted on
the matter of distribution. Good humor and
mirth prevailed and all was done quietly and in
good order.
	The "Old Folks' Committee" are a very effi-
cient body and certainly deserve great credit for
the very able manner in which they conduct
these large excursions of aged people. All re-
turned home feeling satisfied and contented
with the exercises and enjoyment of the pleas-
ant day spent in each others' society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 37


AN OPEN LETTER.

	Dear lady Homespun! and all the dear sisters
who sent in their names a short time ago as a
memorial of their appreciation of the humble
den of Hannah T. King:
	I have now published an Epic Poem; being a
brief history of the Church of Jesus Christ
from its first organization to the landing of the
Saints upon the site where now stands the me-
tropolis of Utah, i. e., "the modern Mecca"—
and I take my pen to solicit your patronage of
the same. You'll say, "Give some people an


inch and they take an ell." My version is that
kindness and appreciation breeds confidence
and affection. Now for the pith of this letter.
Will you, my dear sisters, each take a book?
Price twenty-five cents only, which will be a
mighty help to me in paying for the printing of
the book, and I’ll insure you a blessing for the
same. I have some bound at fifty cents. Those
at twenty-fine cents are prettily gotten up, will
look well on any drawing-room table, and
the inside will pay for peeping.
		Ever your grateful sister,
					HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
OUR NATION PAST AND PRESENT.

DEAR EDITOR:
	In taking a retrospective view of this nation's
history, and comparing the past with the pres-
ent, we are led to exclaim, "How the mighty
have fallen!" Yes, fallen from that standard
of broad, liberal, spirited patriotism and freedom
and love of the principles of equal rights, that
animated the founders of this great nation. My
mind travels back to the day that Patrick Henry
made his speech which secured the signing of
the Declaration of Independence. I can picture
in my mind the scene, when men were ready to
lay down their lives to secure unto posterity the
heavenly boon of freedom; when every breath
was, as it were, hushed, and the moment came
for the Committee of Three to present the docu-
ment to be signed. What an awful moment!
What a responsibility! Yet did they falter? For
a moment only. While looking at the magni-
tude of the struggle that would ensue, and, see-
ing in case of failure, the axe, the scaffold and
the gibbit, then every man was ready to sign.
I can picture the scene when the fierce, bold
voice of Patrick Henry rang through the assem-
bly, making men start to their feet, and the fire
of freedom and independence to course through
their veins, and the inspiration of God to impel
them to sign. Yes, the Almighty ruler of the
heavens and earth caused the men on that day
to be filled with inspiration and sign that parch-
ment, not only for themselves, but for all ages;
that it should be a test-book of freedom; the
Bible of the rights of man forever.
	It was inspiration that caused Patrick Henry
to implore them to remember that God had giv-
en America to be free. Then mark the struggle
that ensued to raise the standard of liberty and
freedom on this continent. Look at the battles
fought, the blood that was shed, and the perils
and hardships of the unequal contest to give the
American people the right to make their own
laws, to select their own officers, and to have a
voice in the counsels of their common country;
to stand on God's earth free men and women,
and cleave to the principles of the Constitution
which gave them that right. We honor the
men that have bequeathed unto posterity this
heavenly boon, and we, as a people, will stand
by the principles of freedom and equal rights,
the Constitution in its purity, as it was handed
down to us by the men that fought and died for
union and liberty.
	Let the men that hold the reins of govern-
ment pause, reflect and compare the present
corrupt condition of the nation with the past;
and above all they should remember that they
will be held accountable for the trust reposed in
them, for the faithful performance of their duty
as the servants of the people; let them remem-
ber their oath of office, as the custodians of the
people's rights, and not treat as enemies the
most loyal people that America can boast. How
can they, with the fact before them, when they
know that we are a law-abiding people, presume
to put their feet upon the necks of the people
and conceive a paragraph of a law like the fol-

[Column 2]
lowing, which takes the elective franchise out
of the hands of the Territorial Legislature, and
the right of suffrage of the women of this Terri-
tory is revoked. The Probate court is divested
of all jurisdiction over the estates of deceased
persons, that rightful heirs under existing laws
may be dispossessed of their inheritances. The
act of incorporation of the Church of the Lat-
ter-day Saints is so far annulled as to bring a
purely religious establishment under the politi-
cal management of trustees, to be appointed by
the President of the United States. What a
condesention! What liberty! What mockery!
Where can you find such oppression, such per-
version of the true principles of freedom. We
find that one of the complaints made against
the rule of England by our revolutionary fathers
was, "For abolishing our most valuable laws,
and altering the forms of our own government;
for suspending our legislatures and declaring
themselves invested with power to legislate for
us."
	That is the stand Mr. Hoar takes in his bill.
He thinks himself capable of legislating and
regulating the local laws of a community that
he knows nothing about. He is entirely at fault
with regard to enactments on our Statute books.
These Congressmen talk about ignorance in
Utah, but by comparing notes they can find
enough of it nearer home. When men that
hold the reins of government and the destiny
of this Republic in their hands are so ignorant
and blind to the interests of the country as to
establish a precedent that is a deadly thrust at
the fundamental principles of freedom, like the
one which they are trying to force upon the peo-
ple of this Territory, I think it shows an igno-
rance that would be inexcusable in a schoolboy,
much less in the rulers of the nation. As these
measures will not be confined to this Territory
whenever it seems expedient to the dominant
power to crush some obnoxious section of the
country, that precedent will be used for that pur-
pose, and a committee will be established, as
they have a "technical right" to take possession
of our property, and appoint a committee to use
it in whatever way they may think proper.
	What are they to do with Article 14, Section
1 of the Constitution, which says, "All persons
born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States, and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the priviliges or
immunities of citizens, nor shall any State de-
prive any person of life, liberty, or property, nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the law."
	How can men, with the Constitution before
them as a guide, seek to establish principles and
precedents that are diametrically opposed to the
principles of freedom, and that have within
them the seeds of revolutionary and seditious
elements that will engender civil war if carried
into effect, destroy the confidence of the nation
and undermine the very foundations of the
union.
	We, the ladies of Utah, tender our thanks to
the honorable men that have dared, in the face
of prejudice, and the popular clamor, to raise a
voice in behalf of our franchise, as we claim
that we have not forfeited our right to the bal-
lot, and we claim by the Constitution in Section
9, that "no bill of attainder or ex-post facto law
shall be passed." And we, as citizens and lov-
ers of justice and equity, admire the bold and
determined stand that has been taken by some
of the noble minded to maintain the principles
of the Constitution, and to protect the people in
their rights and privileges,
	We put our trust in God our Heavenly Father,
we have faith in Him, for we know that in His


own due time He will deliver us from the power
of our enemies. We are the sincere followers of
our Savior. He was reviled and persecuted, and
His sufferings were so great that He sweat drops
of blood, and He cried unto His Father in His
anguish that if it were possible for the cup to
pass by, "But not my will be done, but Thine."
We know the time is not far distant when the
wicked and ungodly shall be swept from the
face of the earth, and we are willing to suffer
that we may gain an eternal weight of glory in
the Kingdom of God.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
and right over might, I am,
		Your sister in the cause of truth,
					SARAH A. FULLMER.


38	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM LETTER, LAIE,
OAHU.

	I went to Sunday School with the children
this morning at 8 o'clock and to meeting at 10.
Brother Wilcox seems quite surprised at the
good order that is kept in the Sunday School,
etc. Morris has been gone now three weeks to-
day from Laie. I have heard from him two or
three times since he left, and he is getting along
as well as can be expected when traveling
among the natives.
	I received the things you sent, and we are all
delighted with them. They are just what we
needed, and just the fit. I thank you very
much for my presents, also Aunt Eliza; please
tell her. I took the little card she sent me for a
book mark to Sunday School, and some of the
brethren remarked about my nice present, and
of course it was just from Utah.
	Brothers Wilcox, Hyde and Tilby have just
been in for a few minutes. They are going to
visit some of the natives at their home meet-
ings. We had a very pleasant evening last
night, for it was the birthday of one of the
young missionaries, so we got up a little pro-
gramme consisting of singing, reciting, music,
etc., and we all enjoyed ourselves.
	Half past 10 o'clock. Just come from meet-
ing, which was held at the big house. While I
was writing to-day Brother and Sister Wilcox
came for me to take a walk, so I took the child-
ren and we all went for a stroll and did not get
back till dark, so it was impossible for me to fin-
ish writing, for as soon as I got through with
my bread and milk supper, it was meeting time.
The mail came to-night after meeting and I was
very much disappointed in not receiving any
mail, but when I looked the paper through and
found the heading of an article "Gathering of
the Snows," I felt quite comforted, and greatly
enjoyed reading and re-reading it, and imagined
you must have had an excellent time; and I
thought how I should like to have dropped in
and looked at you all for a minute, if I could do
it without neglecting my duty, but "Thy will,
O Lord, not mine, be done." I am glad I am
where I am, and thank God that I am counted
worthy to be among those who are willing to go
forth and work in His cause, which is indeed a
great one; and my greatest desire is that God
will bless me with sufficient of His Holy Spirit
to enable me to stand the trials that are placed
before me with a cheerful and humble heart,
feeling to say in my heart at all times "Father,
not my will, but Thine be done," and ever
praying for His Holy Spirit to guide me in the
right path and strengthen me, that I may be
able to do good and do my duty while I am here
on these Islands, and still continue with me
that I may ever be found doing good in God's
Kingdom. I had better close for the night for
it is getting late. Good night, and I ask God to
bless you.
	Tuesday 27th, twenty-five minutes after 8

[Column 2]
o'clock. Just come from prayers—been sewing
a little to day and talking with Sister Wilcox.
Sister Partridge and I have also practiced, with
the Primary children, some songs this afternoon.
Yesterday I spent with the children a few hours
in the forenoon, upon one of our little mounds,
studying Hawaiian. In the afternoon we went
to meeting, and we had a splendid little meet-
ing. I was really proud of our little native
children. When called on to read or sing they
would walk up to their places with such prompt-
ness and perform their parts well. One little
boy, who is quite smart, and has a good voice
for singing, who has been considerable trouble
to us, walked up and sang so nicely and took
such interest in answering with the others the
questions we put to them from the book,
"Bible Questions and Answers." I feel that the
Spirit of the Lord was really with us, and I hope
He will still continue to aid us with His Holy
Spirit, also these little ones, and I feel that He
will.
	The children are sleeping, but they wanted me
to say for them that they sent lots of kisses to
Aunt Eliza and grandma, and thank you for
their presents.
	The mail leaves here to-morrow for Honolulu,
and I am in some hopes of getting a letter or two
to-morrow when the mail comes in. I sewed
some on the machine last week—made three
cart covers—something similar to wagon covers
—for the mission, and the next morning they
sent me over a little piece of pig meat, the first
meat we have had for two weeks. We are liv-
ing very scant now, but I feel that we ought to,
for it costs a good deal just for the little we get,
and I pay my boy $2.00 a month for milking,
bringing the water and chopping the wood; but
since Morris has been gone we have spent very
little, and I keep track of every cent I spend,
and my flour and sugar have lasted much longer
than I thought they could; but I can see in so
many little ways that the Lord is watching over
us and blessing us, for which I thank Him
ever.
	It is now after 9 o'clock and I must go to bed,
but I must tell you first how nicely the children
take their turns in praying with me when we
have our morning prayers, which we have every
morning.
					ALMIDA SNOW YOUNG.


[Column 1]
R S.,Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
OGDEN CITY.

	Our Conference was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle June 20th, 1884, commencing at 10
a.m., conducted by our beloved President, Jane
S. Richards, with her Counselors, Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah I. Herrick. We had the
company of Apostle F. D. Richards, President
L. W. Shurtliff and wife, President Eliza R.
S. Smith; Treasurer Melissa Hall, Brothers W.
G. Child, Mark Hall, Bro. Garner, Bishop
Maycock and others; also Presidents of branch
societies.
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes, etc., President
Jane S. Richards made a few opening remarks,
expressing her great joy in again meeting with
her beloved brethren and sisters. Felt that
they had met for the purpose of diffusing
knowledge one to another. Spoke of the won-
derful goodness of the Lord unto us as a peo-
ple; hoped we would gain strength and comfort
thereby to go on rejoicing in the good work we
have begun etc.
	Our much beloved President, Eliza R. S.
Smith gave us, as usual, much wise instruction
in regard to the sublime principles of our holy
religion. Referred to the judgments of the
Lord coming upon those who refused to do His

[Column 2]
will and were enemies to the cause of truth.
She felt sorry and grieved to hear of the dis-
asters and trouble that were befalling many
places in the world. Exhorted us to live near
to God, to teach the young and rising genera-
tion to have great faith in the God of Israel;
train them more in the ways of the Lord, cul-
tivate their minds and hearts to higher and
nobler thoughts and aims, and not so much in
the fashions and follies of the day. Spoke con-
siderably upon the youth of Zion; knew the
Lord would have a tried people, but we would
yet be free, and God will reign over us. Let
us grow better day by day that we can stand
with Christ our elder brother when He ap-
pears.
	President L. W. Shurtliff felt to endorse all
that had been said by those who had spoken.
He took great pleasure in meeting with the
Saints of God. Referred briefly to the educa-
tion and cultivation of the young people of
Utah. Also spoke of the great and noble
work of womankind, etc.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke principally
upon the law and order of tithing and of mar-
riage, and the great work devolving upon the
Saints in regard to the dead as well as the liv-
ing. Thought that all had a work to perform
in the Temple, and not to put it off while the
day lasts, for none of us know how soon we
may depart this life. It is our duty to do all
we can for the dead while we are upon this
stage of life. He also quoted from different
parts of Scripture.
	The morning service closed with singing the
following:

l had a dream the other night; I saw some wonderful
		things:
I saw the end of nations, likewise kingdoms and kings;
I saw the Savior come, for the time was nigh at hand,
He did descend from heaven to earth with all His holy
		band.

Before He reached the earth I heard a shout so great:
Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go, ye virgins, Him to
		meet.
Behold some were foolish, the others they were wise,
Their lamps were trimmed; they left the earth to meet
		Him in the skies.

The foolish then in anguish cried, oh, whither shall we
		go?
The wise have gone to meet Him and left us here below.
Oh, sell of your oil, they cried, that we with you may
		dwell.
The answer that the wise gave them, we have no oil to
		sell.

I saw the wicked’s destruction; It was a sight to see;
From the presence of Jehovah they knew not where to
		flee;
They called for rocks to fall on them, but, alas, they
		called in vain;
By the brightness of His glory the wicked were all
		slain,

"This time I saw Him coming; it was not as before;
The whole creation trembled, the Saints did Him adore;
He came, He came in glory, with healing in His wings;
He came as King of Israel, to reign as King of Kings."
	The afternoon session commenced with sing-
ing and prayer. Presidents of the various
branch societies then gave a very favorable re-
port of each respective society, followed by
Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick. Each bore a faithful testimony to the
work of God.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith again spoke on
many interesting subjects. Touched upon
character, conscience, the work for our dead,
the law and order of tithing, and its being
taught to children, and many other things, ex-
plaining each subject in a beautiful and accept-
able manner to the Saints, who listened with
great joy and satisfaction. Sister Eliza occu-
pied one hour, lacking five minutes, in the
afternoon. All present felt that the Spirit of
the Lord rested upon her to a great extent.
Long may she live to be a shining light among
the Saints of God.


﻿Apostle F. D. Richards also gave much
wise counsel and instruction to those present
in regard to the various duties they were called
upon to perform, blessing the congregation in
the name of the Lord and exhorting them to
be faithful and true to their religion.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith then gave in the
resignation of Sister Sarah J. Herrick as Sec-
ond Counselor to Sister Richards. Sister Her-
rick being President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociations of Weber Stake of Zion, felt that it
was her duty to give them more of her
thoughts and time, and to do this it was neces-
sary on account of her multiplicity of cares,
etc., to tender her resignation.
	Sister Smith then asked if this resignation
would be accepted by the sisters. It was
accepted, after which Sister Emily Shurtliff
was unanimously voted for to take the place of
Second Counselor.
	We regret that Sister Herrick has deemed it
necessary to resign her position. She has been
Counselor to Sister Richards for many years,
and has been a diligent co-worker with her
in every duty. She is beloved by all who
know her.
	After a few closing remarks from Sister
Richards conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing and benediction.
					MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


[Column 1]
TRIBUTE OF ESTEEM.

TO MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.

	On the evening of June 21st ult., there was
a very large and pleasant gathering at the resi-
dence of Apostle F. D. Richards in Ogden, as
a sort of friendly farewell to Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, who had very ably and happily filled
several important offices in connection with
the young people of that stake of Zion. The
Presidents of the Y. L. M. I. A., and many of
the members were present, as well as the fami-
ly and Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith of this city.
Mrs. Richards was presented with a large and
elegant photograph album by the Ward Asso-
ciation over which she had presided so efficient-
ly. Miss Emily Newman, the Secretary, then
read the following testimonial:

SISTER EMILY S. RICHARDS,

Late President of the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association in the Second
Ward of the Weber Stake of Zion:

	Dear Sister: Since, in the providences of
our Heavenly Father, you have been called
with your family to remove from this city to
the capital of the Territory, we desire to ex-
press, if it be but briefly, yet earnestly, our
heartfelt appreciation of yourself personally,
and of your faithful, diligent, and unceasing
labors while with us as President of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
the Second Ward.
	It is, therefore, with pleasure and with pride
that we can and do bear testimony that your
course of conduct and daily walk of life have
ever been in harmony with your precepts, and
in consonance with the excellent teachings,
counsels and instructions we have received
from you in our Association assemblies, all of
which have been of an elevating tendency, be-
ing inspired by the spirit and power of the Ho-
ly Ghost. Whenever we have followed im-
plicitly your counsels, we have enjoyed the
communion of the Holy Ghost, and the bless-
ings of God our Heavenly Father, for, guided
by them, we have realized that we have walked
in the paths of duty, and in the ways of pleas-
antness and peace.
	Your ever-welcome presence and agreeable
companionship have always inspired us with
happiness, and the many kind words which

[Column 2]
have fallen from your lips have infused a new
life, cheered the drooping spirit, and the des-
pondent soul has been lifted up, encouraged,
and impelled to renewed efforts to climb the
steep hill, to walk with firmer footsteps the rug-
ged road that leads to God, and to earnestly
fight the battles of life, as well as the fight of
faith in order to win the crown of righteous-
ness which is reserved for all who shall over-
come the world, its sins, and all its allure-
ments.
	Your earnest work to promote the best in-
terest of the Association, we are sure, has been
like seed sown on good ground and has brought
forth fruits mete for, and acceptable to, the
Master of the Harvest Field; while your anx-
ious solicitude to raise funds to redeem as
many as possible of your sisters from Babylon
and bring them to Zion's peaceful vales, where
they can find rest, peace, and protection, and
where they can be instructed more fully in the
laws of the Lord, have won for you the kind
feelings and pure affections of grateful hearts,
in which your name will be cherished and em-
balmed while ever gratitude is a virtue and
memory and reason hold their throne.
	But, dear sister, we do not desire to multiply
words; hence we will now say briefly, but em-
phatically, that your entire course, during your
presidency over our Association is fully in-
dorsed by us all, and we shall ever continue to
entertain for you that pure affection which
binds together the hearts of the members of
the household of God in bonds that are strong-
er than death
	Accept, then, dear sister Emily, these our af-
fectionate tributes of our grateful hearts, and
believe us when we say, that wherever your
lot may be cast you will be remembered by us,
and our earnest prayers to our Heavenly Fa-
ther will ascend that He will bless you with
the blessings of the heavens above, of the earth
that lieth beneath, that you may enjoy health,
peace, prosperity, and happiness during the re-
mainder of your mortal career; and when you
have finished life's labors here, that you be
crowned with exaltation and eternal life in the
Celestial Kingdom of God.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel of
Jesus Christ,
THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE AS-
SOCIATION.

	Sister Richards was very deeply affected by
the expression of esteem and love from her
young friends and associates, and although ta-
ken by surprise, responded in the most graceful
manner, and assured her friends that she
should ever cherish in her heart a tender feel-
ing for those with whom she had been so pleas-
antly associated.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith made a few appropri-
ate remarks and commended the beautiful sen-
timents contained in the testimonial, and felt
that it was truly merited by Sister Emily,
whose labors were well worthy of recognition.
	Elder F. S. Richards, in a few words, ex-
pressed his good feelings and appreciation of
the honor extended to his wife, and that it was
a source of infinite satisfaction to know that she
has won so many true friends, who were eager
to express their gratitude for her labors in the
Association.
	Apostle F. D. Richards thanked the young
ladies for the love and respect evinced for Sis-
ter Emily, felt it was a mark of esteem to him-
self, as she was a member of his family, and
gave some good advice and encouragement.
	Other suitable remarks were made by Sisters
S. A. Herrick, E. Y. Stanford, R. E. Monch,
Prest. Jane S. Richards, Prest. Mary Ann Ri-
ley, Bishop Thomas Wallace, Elders. L. F.
Monch and Joseph Hall. A bounteous supper
had been prepared by the young ladies, and
between forty and fifty partook of the delicious
rep[--]t.

[Column 3]
	The evening was quickly spent in the de-
lights of social conversation, interchange of
ideas and expressions of sincere friendship, and
at midnight the gathering broke up with a fer-
vent God bless you and good-bye for a little
season to Sister Emily, who gratefully ac-
knowledged her appreciation of their courtesies
and attention.


ORGANIZATION.

	The sisters of the Eleventh Ward met in
the ward Assembly Hall July 1st, 1884, at 2
p.m,, pursuant to adjournment, present: Prest.
A. M. Cannon, Bishop Mc.Rae, Counselors,
Joseph Felt and Robert Morris, and forty-nine
sisters. Sang, "O, give me back my Prophet
dear;" prayer by Counselor Morris; singing
"Sweet is the work, my God, my King." Min-
utes of preliminary meeting read and accepted.
Sister Margaret Mc.Master, in behalf of a com-
mittee appointed by the sisters last meeting to
wait upon Sister Eunice Mc.Rae to request her
to accept the Presidency, reported that they
waited upon her, and, while she appreciated the
kindness of her sisters, felt the responsibility
was more than she wanted to assume. Bishop
Mc.Rae reported that she declined to act as her
health was not good. The sisters were re-
quested to select another, but they preferred the
Bishop to appoint. After consulting with Prest.
Cannon, he nominated Sister Margaret Mc.-
Master as President of the Eleventh Ward Re-
lief Society, which was carried unanimously.
Prest. Mc.Master selected Sisters Jane Law-
son and Sarah Sears as her Counselors, who
were also unanimously accepted.
	Prest. Cannon gave the sisters excellent
counsel, and exhorted them to obedience; said
the Bishop was the head of the Ward.
	Bishop Mc.Rae was pleased with the meet-
ing and gave good advice to the sisters, and
exhorted them to be kind and look out for the
wants of the poor, and not to speak evil of one
another. Also spoke of his imprisonment with
the Prophet Joseph.
	Prest. Mc.Master felt unequal to the respon-
sibility, but would do her best.
	Counselors Jane Lawson and Sarah Sears
spoke of their weakness, and would do their
utmost.
	Counselor Joseph Felt spoke and gave good
counsel. The brethren then retired, leaving
the sisters to select others. Adjourned to July
7th.				MARIAH B. FORD.
							Secretary.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	It is a long time since you have heard from
the Smithfield Relief Society, but we are try-
ing to live up to the mission we were organized
for, assisting the poor and the aged, caring for
the sick, and striving to do good to all. Sister
Adeline Barber is our energetic and kind
President, and to show her that we appreciate
her labors, in connection with the Primary As-
sociations of this county, of which she is First
Counselor to the stake president, we got up a
surprise for her on the 26th of January, as that
was her fiftieth birthday. Sister Jane Molen,
President of the Stake Primary Associations,
and Sister Kirby of Hyde Park, were present,
and though they were bowed down with grief
on account of severe sickness and death in the
family of Sister Molen's sister of Hyde Park,
still they gave words of cheer and encourage-
ment to live our religion, perform our many
duties, serve and trust God in all things.
	An address on Prest. Barber's fiftieth birth-
day, by Sister Martha Williams, and a piece
(entitled) "Friendship," by Sister Sarah A.
Merrill were read in behalf of the Relief So-


ciety. A piece of poetry by Sister Martha
Williams was recited in an able manner by her
little daughter Gertie in behalf of the Primary.
Some pretty and useful presents were then giv-
en to Sister Barber from the Relief Society
and Primary Association. Several other Prim-
ary Associations joined with them in testifying
of their love and respect for her. Prest. Bar-
ber replied in an appreciative and feeling
speech, thanking the sisters and the children
for their good feelings expressed for her. All
passed off pleasantly, and the sisters feel well
and united.
	Wishing the EXPONENT success in dissemi-
nating the truth, and in showing to the world
that the women of Utah are able to take care
of themselves without any outside help,
	I remain, your sister and co-worker,
				ELIZABETH J. JUSHAW.
Smithfield, Feb. 18th, 1884.


40	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY PARTY.

	The Primary of Union Ward met at nine
o'clock, June 2nd, 1884. After the usual ex-
ercises were over we had an excellent pro-
gramme, after which the children marched to
the residence of Sarah A. Forbush, who has
been their President for four years, but since
the death of her husband has been released
from the presidency on account of her other
responsibilities. The children wished to show
their appreciation for her kindness while with
them; they sang hymns with many voices and
madeher heart glad;she was then presented with
the sum of ten dollars. Dinner was prepared
for all, and the afternoon spent in dancing.
Our children are happy in well doing.
		ANN H. GREENWOOD, President,
		MARY A. BALL,
		E. RICHARDSON, Counselors.


We intend hereafter that each issue of the
paper shall contain a synopsis of the semi-
monthly meetings in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, as they have an important bearing upon
the general work of the Associations.


IN MEMORIAM.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF ELIZABETH F. HANSON.

	It is always painful to part with those we love. An-
other bright, precious jewel has been called away from
earth. Sister Elizabeth F. Hanson, wife of Abraham
J. Hanson, and daughter of Sophia Smith and the late
John Smith, died June 16th, 1884. She was born in
Spanish Fork, Utah Co., Utah, Feb. 11th, 1863. Though
her days were not many on this earth, none could have
spent them any better than she did. As a daughter
and wife she was loving, persevering and kind, and
would often say to her aged mother, "Mother, you rest
and let me work." She was First Counselor to Mary J.
Brockbank, President of the Young Ladies Association,
and was always punctual to her duties, and never failed
to perform any exercise she was called upon to perform;
her kind and gentle way seemed to win many to the
cause of truth and righteousness, for she was gifted in
speaking and writing; one of her pieces was published
in the EXPONENT not long ago; many others were just
as good that she wrote from time to time to strengthen
her sisters in good works. She was also a faithful
teacher in the Sabbath School.
	Her departure was sudden, being sick but a few days,
when her pure spirit returned to the Father who gave it.
Doc. and Cov., page 237, 49th verse says, "Yea, and
blessed are the dead that die in the Lord from hence-
forth, when the Lord shall come and old things shall
pass away and all things become new, they shall rise
from the dead and shall not die after, and shall receive
an inheritance before the Lord in the holy city."

VERSES COMPOSED BY SISTER HANNAH CORNABY.

Elizabeth has gone and left
	Her bright example here,
And those who knew her faithful life
	Will hold her memory dear.


﻿Although her mortal life was short,
	And much of pain she knew,
In patience she her sufferings bore
	And still was firm and true.

The love of God within her heart
	Made all her duties light,
Now in far happier scenes she dwells,
	And walks in robes of white

With those, who like her, kept the faith
	The Gospel light restored,
Having gained the victory over death
	Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Oh, happy thought! we, too, may gain
	The presence of our God
If we, by strict obedience here,
	Hold fast the iron rod.

Our sister does not need our tears;
	She seems to say to all,
"Be up and doing, death may come,
	Be ready for his call."

We bow to God our Father's will,
	And humbly ask that He
May comfort all her mourning friends
	That they His hand may see.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His al-
wise Providence to call from our midst by the hand of
death our much beloved sister and counselor, Elizabeth
F. Hanson,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Young Ladies' Association, do deeply sympathize with
the bereaved husband, mother and relatives, in the loss
of a kind and affectionate wife, and a loving and esti-
mable daughter.
	Resolved, That we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation in her great energy
and perseverance to the cause of truth.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Young Ladies' Associations, also that a
copy be presented to the bereaved husband and mother,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
			MARY J. BROCKBANK,
			MARY J. MORRISON,		Committee.
			FLORA ROBERTSON,


GONE TO REST.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, on the evening of July 4th,
1884, after weary months of suffering, Sister Jemima
Nightingale Davis. Born November 19th, 1834, in Sal-
ford, Manchester, England.
	Sister Davis has been an active and efficient member
of the visiting committee of the Relief Society of the 17th
Ward for many years, always cheerful and willing to
perform the arduous duties of that office until her health
broke down about a year ago.
	I visited her frequently during the last few weeks of
her illness, and I think I speak advisedly when I say she
was a faithful, consistent saint of God.
	On one occasion she told me that if she could get well
she felt to devote herself still more to the work of God,
and let earthly matters go; but if she could not, she felt
resigned to the will of heaven, feeling that she would be
free from her sufferings, and God would be merciful to
her failings.
	The spirit of peace and quiet brooded over her home.
The last time I saw her quite conscious she fervently
clasped my hand again and again and bade me good bye
for this life. I asked her is she still felt that Father did
all things well. She answered, "Yes." I saw her for the
last time just a few minutes before she expired. The
same quiet was there, though her spirit was trembling
between the frail clay that imprisoned it and the free-
dom for which it yearned. Her family was around her,
and her faithful daughter Janey soothed th dying mo-
ther, as she had comforted and blessed her for so long.
Her husband and children have sustained an irrepara-
ble loss, but she has gained life in the presence of
God.
	May the Spirit of God comfort and sustain them, and
may they lean on His all-mighty arm, theu will they
find a balm for every woe, and angels will comfort the
heart that mourns.
	As a society and as friends we deeply sympathize with
her family in this their great loss, yet feel that all is
well, for she passed away in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection, when we, with them, will meet her again, if
in our lives we are true and faithful as she has been.
					Lovingly,		S. D. ALDER.


For Sale at this Office.

﻿BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Lesidence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMWGS,
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15. 1884	No. 6.


[For the EXPONENT.]
INVOCATION.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
These words like an echo from far, far away,
Fall ringing and clinging around my heart,
Till they seem of my weak, longing soul a part,
I long for the clasp of departed hands,
Dear eyes that now beam in the brighter lands,
A word or a token to brighten my way—
O Silence, be broken! A year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
Oh, where in immensity vast do you stay?
What wonders of bliss could your soul so enslave
As to make you forget who weeps over your grave?
What billows of melody beat from your ear
The voice of the pilgrim beseeching you hear?
O Spirit, set free from the burden of clay,
Stop but for a moment! A year and a day!

A year and a day—a year and a day!
I linger and hearken; one whisper I pray;
No matter how lightly your footstep may fall
I'll hear it; I'll answer your faintest call;
My famishing soul in your presence could gain
The courage to labor and struggle again.
My heart is aweary. No longer delay!
I've waited and listened a year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
O talisman words has your charm passed away?
I hear no glad footstep, I see no fond smile,
No strenghtening clasp on my weak hands the while—
O Death, thou grim guardian over the Iomb,
Why wearest a mantle of silence and gloom?
Oh, curtain that shadows the light of my day,
Unclose! Unclose! A year and a day.

A year and a day—a year and a day!
I have trodden with faltering feet the way
I saw you were going; too swiftly you passed,
Forgetting one lingering look to cast,
Forgetting to call me, or message to send
To lighten the way for your travel-worn friend;
But though tangled and dreary and dark the way,
Dear heart I am coming. A year and a day.
									LU DALTON.
	Beaver, July 8th, 1884.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

IN BEHALF OF THE PIONEERS OF UTAH.

DELIVERED BEFORE THE PUBLIC IN BEAVER, U. T.
JULY 24TH, 1884, BY L. L. DALTON.

	The earth is the Lord's and the fullness
thereof; the world and they that dwell therein,
and we are His people, a remnant of His own
chosen Israel, heirs of the covenants and prom-
ises made with Abraham, our father, and the
friend of God.
	The ways of God are not as the ways of
man, nor His purposes to be fathomed by the
small understanding of man. He created this
earth and placed His children upon it for a
purpose—a wise and glorious purpose—to test
them, to prove which of them would seek after
truth and righteousness for truth and right-
eousness' own sake; for of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven.
	At three grand epochs in the history of this
Church, God has vouchsafed to His mortal
children an explanation of His own perfect
plan for their redemption from all evil, and
their restoration to far more than their original
happiness, power and glory.
	The first revelation of the divine plan of re-
demption was at the beginning of time, in the
days of Adam; the second at the meridian of

[Column 2]
time, in the days of Jesus; the third at the
consummation of time, in the days of Joseph.
	In every dispensation Satan has bestirred
himself to fight against God and try to bring
His purposes to naught, but God has ever
made use of him as an instrument to further
His plans and perfect His praise; suffering him
only to go as far as He would and checking
him at will.
	It is the last dispensation which we have
under consideration, and how fully is it proven
that the ways of God are not as the ways of
man, when He chose Joseph Smith, an obscure
and unlearned boy, before all the great and
wise ones of the earth to open the last and
greatest ministry of the Gospel unto the child-
ren of the earth. Is it any wonder that the
intelligent world found it hard to believe? But
they should have been prepared for it, because
the holy Scriptures have always declared that
the weak things of the earth should be chosen
to confound the wise.
	When this youth had the temerity to affirm
that he had been appointed to translate for the
benefit of all future generations of mankind,
precious records of ancient peoples—he who
understood no language, scarcely even his own
—is it any wonder that reasonable people
found it beyond belief?
	And when the book made its appearance
abounding in excellence, filled with consistent
—albeit most marvelous—histories of periods
and peoples, high and holy teachings, quota-
tions from the lucid explanations of the Jewish
Scriptures, and all couched in most magnificent
language, it was overpowering.
	It was manifestly impossible that such a boy
could be himself the author and originator of
such a book, and had the finest schools on earth
been at the boy's command, two years, the
time occupied in the translation of the book,
was far too brief for the manufacture of so vol-
uminous a work, in which no flaw could be
found; which chimed in strict unison with the
ancient Bible in every line and word. It
seemed that the God-given reasoning powers of
men would inevitably lead them to the truth—
that the work was truly a translation, rendered
by one of the meek of the earth, not by his
own strength and wisdom, but by the gift and
power of the Holy Ghost. But just at this
critical point, the father of lies filled their ears
with that flimsy fabrication, the Spaulding Ro-
mance, and thus turned away the hearts of
men from the glorious opportunity of becoming
filled with God's holy word and having their
eyes opened to the grand panorama of events
from the beginning of creation even unto the
end. And Satan filled the hearts of men with
rage against him, whom they considered an
impostor, until they continually sought after
his life. He was waylaid, beaten and maligned,
but always delivered with his life, for his work
was not done.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, by power and au-
thority from God he organized the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to un-
consecrated eyes it must have seemed a small
matter—only six members—but God blessed
them and called them His own, the Church
which should never be thrown down nor given
to another people; the little stone cut out of
the mountain without hands, which should roll
forth in power and great glory until it should
fill the whole earth. And God nourished and
strengthened His small Church and gave line
upon line, precept upon procept, and revelation

[Column 3]
after revelation for their guidance. And they
grew in numbers and strength until they pur-
chased counties and founded cities, and built
temples to the Most High God. And Joseph
increased in wisdom and in favor with God
and labored diligently for the perfection of the
Saints, teaching them their duties both spirit-
ual and temporal. He impressed upon their
minds the words of Jesus, "Except ye are one
ye are none of mine;" also our national maxim
"Union is strength." And by their success in
embodying these precepts in their actions they
became a power in the land, and their neigh-
bors began to look upon them with jealous eyes
because of their worldly prosperity, and because,
as they averred, these people whom they in
scorn had dubbed "Mormons," now held a bal-
ance of political power between two opposing
parties. They began to cry "priestcraft," "de-
lusion," "one-man-power," and to denounce the
union of the Mormons as something unrepubli-
can and dangerous. They sought every occa-
sion to malign and annoy individuals, especially
Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum and all the
officers of the Church: Then began a crusade
of accusations, arrests and detentions, hard to
endure, but always ending in the discomfiture
and chagrin of the accusers, until weary with
fruitless attempts to injure their hated neigh-
bors under cover of law, they entered upon a
course of unlawful persecutions which, in some
cases, provoked retaliation, which perhaps fur-
nished a pretext for scenes of plunder, violence
and murder, worthy the darkest of the dark
ages. The prophet and his brethren were re-
peatedly thrown into prison, and as fast as one
false charge fell to the ground another would be
brought forward. At last God's anointed
Prophet and his noble brother were slain by a
painted mob while imprisoned on another false
charge, and under the pledged protection of the
Governor of the State; and that same Govern-
or, at the time of the attack upon the jail, was
haranguing the prophet's people, promising
safety for him and justice for themselves. God
and his own soul know if he was in league with
the dastardly assassins.
	By no means were the evil doers satisfied
with the death of the Smith brothers, though
they boasted loudly that their death would put
an end to the Mormon Church, but now they
fixed their covetous eyes on the possessions of
their neighbors, and continued their deeds of
violence until the Saints were obliged to aban-
don their homes, and in winter, with their aged
and infirm, their young and old, their weak
and strong, turn their backs upon their coun-
try and the whole civilized world, and set their
faces toward the setting sun to seek asylum and
liberty of conscience far away amid the ever-
lasting solitudes.
	Oh the anguish of leaving their beautiful
homes, the graves of their kindred, the Temples
wherein they had labored and rejoiced, and to
crown their afflictions they must leave the
shadow of the star spangled banner, which
waves over the land of the free and the home
of the brave! They loved the dear old flag
for which their kindred blood had been shed
at Lexington and Bunker Hill, but now, in
their extremity, it afforded them no protection.
They had broken no law, yet that modern Pi-
late, Governor Boggs, had signed a decree for
their expulsion from the State, and the Presi-
dent of the United States, when petitioned,
said, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing
for you."


[Column 1]
	So these oppressed ones turned away, fol-
lowed by the jeers of their despoilers, who ex-
ultingly affirmed that no white man could exist
among the barren wastes to which they were
bound, that the wilderness would devour them,
leaving not one alive to tell the tale. And
even now they were not allowed to depart in
peace. Whether it were from motives of econ-
omy, to get some good service out of men already
death-doomed, or whether hoping that so un-
a request would be refused and thus afford rea-
sonable pretext for further acts of violence
towards the fugitives, cannot now be known,
but certain it is, the outcasts were followed by
a requisition for five hundred picked men to
go to the war in Mexico.
	It must be that some hearts swelled in in-
dignant protest against this impudent demand
for the flower of their strength to fight for the
country which had alienated them. How
could it be otherwise, when they were asked to
give up their prop and stay, their right hand
and eye, just when on the eve of entering an
unknown country, swarming with lurking
savages and teeming with all manner of per-
ils?
	But their new leader, Brigham Young,
cheered and comforted them, promising in the
name of Israel's God that would they cheer-
fully comply with this call, and testify to the
last their reverence for their country's flag,
their dear ones should return to them safely,
and a great blessing should follow. And he
reasoned with them, that with their force un-
impaired, they would still be wholly dependent
upon their God for aid and protection, and
He was just as able to defend the weak as the
strong. He said, "The word of our God is with
us that we are to do His work of the Latter
Day Dispensation, therefore we know that we
shall not perish, but shall be brought safely to
a land of promise as was Israel of old."
	They had faith to believe these things, and
the five hundred men were quickly mustered
and prepared, as well as their scanty means
would permit, for the formidable march across
the continent. How the hearts of these men
must have swelled with grief when they thus
left all that earth held dear to struggle, without
their aid, through the very jaws of danger and
death in search of security and life! And yet,
to this day, some there be who dare say that
these men abandoned their aged parents, their
tender wives and their helpless children ex-
posed, with scanty defense, to the fury of the
elements, to hunger, thirst, fatigue and sickness,
to natural death at the hands of savage foes,
and death from the fangs of ravenous beasts—
for the paltry consideration of thirteen dollars
a month—and they bound for a place where
the labor of their hands was their only means
of existence, and money of no more value than
the gravel of these arid hills.
	But did the camp of Israel move with heavy
feet, amid tears and lamentations over their
hard fate? Not so. They who trust in God
utterly, are always light of heart, for they
know their friend is ever near. They made a
cheerful noise to their God, praising him in
prayer and song and with the music of instru-
ments, acknowledging that all their seeming
misfortunes were blessings in disguise.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, poet and priestess
among the exiles, thus describes a halt in the
early part of the exodus, during inclement
weather, at a place where they had scarcely
room to stand and none to repose:
	"The brethren built a roaring fire, around
which some of them stood and sung songs and
hymns all night, while others parched corn,
roasted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard—al! were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists instead of a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Could anything else but God's own presence

[Column 2]
and support have converted so forlorn a ven
ture into even the semblance of a pleasure ex
cursion? How deep the philosophy of wear
ing pain like pleasure until we forget that it is
pain!
	But even these devoted pilgrims could not
always forget their pain, for the song of praise
was sometimes changed to a funeral dirge, and
then the weak part of human nature claimed
its tribute of blistering tears and heartrending
sighs. But for them, as for those who burned
their ships, there was no return. Forward they
must go whatever befell.
	They were sustained, and their almost im-
possible undertaking accomplished. They ar-
rived at the present site of Salt Lake, Rose of
Western Cities, on the 24th of July, 1847, and
made haste to consecrate the spot with prayer
and song, thanksgiving and joy. They unfurled
to the breeze the star spangled banner of their
loved and lost land of the free and home
of the brave; and took possession of the alien
soil in the name of God and the United States.
Yet to this day, there be some who dare to say
that these devoted patriots were not, and are
not loyal!
	On the same day, before the sun set, they
broke the primeval soil and planted grain;
thus setting sign and seal upon their determin-
ation to go forth upon the face of the land and
subdue it.
	And the privations and hardships which they
endured before and after that day, and the
trials which they met and overcame, are they
not written in the book of chronicles? But
the half has never been told, nor can be until
the great day when the books shall be opened
and all men shall be judged from the records
therein, whether for good or for evil.
	Time passed on. Their brave Battalion
boys did return to them, with but the loss of a
single man; and strange to relate, although our
exiles had pitched their tents beyond the bor-
der of the United States, and there established
a form of government and a code of laws in
imitation of those of their own beloved home,
the fortunes of that very war, in aid of which
the flower of their strength had been called
away in time of their direst need, had extend-
ed the boundaries of the United States, until
their new home had become part of that en-
lightened nation, a part of whose people had
rejected them. And they rejoiced that since
they might not return to their country, their
country had come to them; and they considered
that thus the promise of the Lord, made
through Brigham Young, was abundantly re-
deemed.
	And now briefly review the achievements of
this vanguard of civilization in the short space
of thirty-seven years. Alone, unaided and un-
sustained by the parent government, Utah's
band of orphan children have smoothed the
rugged aspect of nature, clothed desolation
with beauty, and transformed gaunt famine in-
to rosy, smiling abundance. By doing this
they made the trans-continental highway pos-
sible, and it is admitted, on all hands, that this
communication between the eastern and west-
ern shores advanced the occupation of all
these broad Western Territories a hundred
years. They eat not the bread of idleness, but
labor with the hands diligently. They have
built pleasant homes and peopled them with
sturdy, energetic sons and daughters, and
adopted thousands of brothers and sisters who
came from foreign lands. They have sent mes-
sengers all over the world to proclaim the glad
tidings of great joy, which they have tested and
know to be sufficient to sustain the human
heart through the darkest hours of trial. They
have established various useful industries, and
they have built Temples, churches and school-
houses. Not a hamlet in all Utah which does
not endeavor to support a school for the intel-
lectual cultivation of its children. They

[Column 3]
print and buy yearly thousands of dollars
worth of books and papers, and encourage their
youth to read, study and learn. And yet, to this
day, there be some who dare to say that the
brave pioneers of a new world are willfully
ignorant and degraded, and willing their child-
ren should be so also.
	But let Zion rejoice in the God of her salva-
tion, whose outstretched arm is mighty to save;
and let her sons and daughters rejoice in the
third and final Gospel diepensation, when the
Great Shepherd has set His hand for the last
time to gather His scattered sheep. Let us re-
joice that we have been found worthy to be
called and set to labor in the whitening harvest.
Let us rejoice in our parents, in our husbands
and wives, and in the lovely children which
spring up around us like the flowers in the
field. Let us rejoice in the high calling to
which they are called—to become saviors on
Mount Zion to both the living and the dead.
	And finally, let us rejoice in Zion, which is
to become beautiful and glorious like a bride
adorned for the coming of the bridegroom; and
which is to become a beacon light and an ark
of refuge to all the nations of the earth. And
let us pray unceasingly to be found blameless
and unspotted in the great day of her purifica-
tion, with our lamps filled and ready when the
Bridegroom cometh. Amen.


42	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Victoria sent President Arthur a dis-
patch of congratulation on the discovery of
the Greeley party.

	The English Woman's Review comes laden
with intelligence of the active work of the
noble ladies engaged in the struggle for equal
suffrage and a better condition for women
generally.

	"The women of Siam have petitioned the
king to take from their husbands the right to
pledge them in the payment of gambling debts"
This is a legal sacrifice to which women are
liable in that country by getting married.

	The presses of the Lawrence American are
being run by electricity. The power is con-
veyed to the office over a wire from a dynamo
more than a quarter of a mile away, and the
experiment is said to work perfectly. A daily
paper printed by electricity is something of a
wonder even in this age of the world.

	It would seem to lookers on that the French
are getting their hands full with China and
Madagascar and foreign places Keeping
up armaments all around the world may make
France formidable as a foe to foreign nations,
but how will it affect the question of peace at
home. Is it not risking too much strength to
conquer abroad and lessening power at home?

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe of Boston, delivered
a lecture before the Concord School of Phil-
osophy Saturday, July 26th, subject, "Emer-
son's Relation to Society." It is said to have
been the principal feature of the occasion, and
that "the audience was a brilliant one," as it
was no doubt a critical one. This eminent,
scholarly lady has won much distinction in
literary and in social circles.

	The newspapers give a good account of the
voting by women at the elections in Washing-
ton Territory. There has been considerable
laudable enthusiasm in the matter, which has
made it all the more interesting. For our own
part we never have had any doubts but that
women would conduct themselves with all due
propriety on these public occasions, and not
lose a particle of their womanliness, a wonder-
ful characteristic word in this day of woman's
advancement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 43


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

The evening passed—the elder rose—
"Sister Virginia, one last word:
I would a friend's desire express
	For your own future. May you find
The Zion that your heart preferred
	To the great Babylon behind.

"May the brave firmness you have shown
Still bear you on through weal or woe,
And should you ever need a friend
	Just send me word. Be prayerful still,
And seek above all things to know,
	And love, and do our Father's will."

Within her own blest room that night
Her heart its burden all outpoured:
The gratitude, the happiness—
	Escaped from out man's cruel snare,
Through power and mercy of the Lord—
	And still besought His holy care.

So like a heaven upon earth
The days went on, they scarce had thought.
To count the months, and daily grew.
	These ties of friendship dearer yet;
Though one e'er present sorrow brought
	Daily its shadow to be met.

For the one boy, Helen's own child,
When fever's scourge was spent and done,
Though rescued back to life and strength
	Walked in their midst with blighted mind;
Silent, unchild-like, grown as one
	Averse to join with human kind.

A father's love and care he met
With stolid, calm indifference;
But, as with nature's instinct, turned
	In quiet faithfulness to her
Whose heart waked to its keenest sense
	Strove still his feeble mind to stir.

Silent and harmless in their midst,
Unanswering love's caress or word,
His ev'ry need and wish supplied;
	Basking in sunshine, noting not
Flower or stream or flitting bird,
	'Twere hard to tell his hidden thought.

Yet, ever when the thunders rolled,
And lightnings flashed before his eyes,
They woke his spirit to reply,
	That keener pierced their troubled hearts;
He mocked the o'er cast, lurid skies
	With muttering wrath and angry darts.

Their only son, their only hope,
Vain seemed their patience and e'en prayer!
Yet resignation meekly bore
	The cross so strange that God had sent,
Waiting the time He should declare
	The purpose that His lesson meant.

Once, stirred by precious truths so sweet
To the disheartened, there arose
Within Virginia's heart, the wish
	To send the words of truth and peace,
Within a missive brief enclosed,
	Praying they might bear swift release

To anxious fears within the heart
That Lillian lightly, idly prized;
In vain—for he though noble, pure
	As man may be, their force withstood;
What she so plainly realized
	His reasons never understood.

"It gives me joy to know your life
Is blessed with comfort, happiness;
That you have reached that goal of faith
	You sought so earnestly and long.
And would take to your heart no less;
	I know you would not love what's wrong—

"And yet, I cannot see with you;
I know, you seek to bear me balm
And hope, and strength to light my soul,
	But still I cannot understand;
My soul is weary, yours is calm,
	Your bark will reach faith's better land.

"Take all of happiness that life
Can yield or bring; your day has dawned,
Bright be its zenith, its decline
	As gentle as your spirit is.

[Column 2]
Farewell! till in the blest Beyond
	We win the peace that here we miss."

Then her heart answered: "Yes, farewell—
Sweet memories so earthly dear.
Have I e'er faltered in the thought
	Which heaven to choose, the one beyond
Or this so pure, so sure, so near,
	Out-reaching love so true and fond?

"Farewell, till God in His own time
Shall speak to thee, then thou wilt know
A higher guide than reason's light;
	Then shall I greet thee, brother, friend,
With joy, for I have loved thee so—
	Where holy friendships never end."


[Column 1]
A DAY-DREAM

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

PART SECOND.

	The scene changes. The coals are burning
just as bright, but the pretty home and com-
fortable family have faded from view, and I
find myself walking up Broadway in the city
of New York. Men of business are hurrying
to and fro as if their lives depended on their
movements. Groups of men are standing here
and there talking on the principal topic of the
day, politics. Some are calm and sanguine,
others excited and careworn. Here a ragged
urchin is begging for a penny to buy a morsel
of bread. There a sweet little girl with blue
eyes and flaxen hair—but oh, so tangled. As
I look at her poor, bare feet and tattered gar-
ments, she lifts her tiny hands, and, with a be-
seeching look, says, "Pretty lady, ma is so sick,
and I am so hungry" I place a dollar in the
poor child's hand and hurry on.
	I slacken my pace, for I am attracted by the
movements of a young girl a little in advance
of me. Her poor feet are peeping through her
torn shoes. She draws a thin shawl around
her as if she was cold. The pale face is
pinched with hunger and her eyes are sunken
and glassy. She is scarcely more than a child.
She staggers on and mutters, "Rum! rum! will
nobody give me rum to drown these racking
thoughts?" A fine, handsome man is coming
towards us, dressed in the height of fashion.
Although it is nearly dark, I recognize him as
one of the leaders of our nation. As he passes
with his head erect, the young girl's face turns
to an ashy hue, she gasps for breath, starts for-
ward, and, in a stifled shriek, cries, "O God, my
destroyer!" and falls lifeless to the earth. I
pass on and meet a degraded wretch with
bloated face and bleared eyes; a little fellow is
running after him, he takes his father's hand.
The child cries in a poor, piping voice, "Father,
come home; do not spend any more money;
Tommy is sick, we have no bread, no fire, and
we are so cold and hungry."
	Gaily caparisoned carriages are passing to
and fro filled with ladies and gentlemen
dressed in costly attire, going to some fashion-
able place of amusement. The flaunting cour-
tesan and proud libertine pass side by side.
Here are houses of business, bowling alleys,
saloons, academies of music, lyceums, houses
of ill fame, churches, theatres, palatial resi-
dences, cottages and hovels. I turn my eyes
to the blue vault of heaven, bedecked with
myriads of stars, and from them to the bril-
liantly lighted streets, refulgent with electric
lights. In fancy I see the grand ocean with
its rolling billows; I see noble ships loaded with
costly merchandise. I see magnificent steam-
ers, sea houses of luxury for travelers; I listen
to the shrill whistle and loud thump of the
iron horse as he rushes along over hill and val-
ley, by fields of golden grain and waving corn,
bearing his precious freight of human souls,
some bent on business,some on pleasure, others on
errands of mercy or, may be, of revenge. And
I think what a beautiful world this would be

[Column 2]
if it were not for "man's inhumanity to man."
I wonder that man, the noblest of God's works,
should make a great part of it fit only for a
resort for demons.
	As I thus muse on the beauties of creation
and the frailties of man, I find myself before
a large mansion. I walk up the broad steps
and in at the door. Noiselessly I pass through
the hall and up a grand old oaken staircase.
Costly images of marble and bronze, from their
retired niches, gaze mournfully upon me, caus-
ing a thrill of gloomy emotions. I pass from
the long winding staircase to a picture gallery,
where the walls are lined with portraits of
stately ladies and gentlemen, who seem to
frown down as if they were insulted at the au-
dacious stranger who dared to intrude on their
gloomy solitude. With an inquiring gaze, I
pass from one to the other until the portrait of
a lovely girl particularly attracts my atten-
tion. She is a blonde with light auburn hair
and deep blue eyes. Her skin is as fair as ala-
baster; her cheeks like the pale, beauteous rose;
her cherry lips, which are slightly apart, re-
veal her pearly teeth. What innocence and
childlike beauty envelop that love form. I
query in my mind if the original of this bright
vision is the one treasure of the house—a love-
ly daughter.
	As I stand entranced with the life-like beau-
ty of the portrait, a sigh falls on my ear so full
of woe that I start with horror, thinking it
must be some benighted spirit winding its way
to the lonely grave. Turning, I see what
seems to be a private door leading to another
apartment. I gently push it open and walk
in. I find myself in a spacious room, furnished
with all the modern luxury of refined life. As
I noiselessly tread the rich carpet it is like
gliding through beds of roses. A magnificent
chandelier of a hundred jets hangs from a fres-
coe celing. There is a grand piano, closed,
with the music stiffly placed on one corner, as
if the pretty performer was no more. A harp
stands in one corner of the room. The glow-
ing coals in the polished grate look inviting to
a weary traveler, but they bring no warmth to
my chilling limbs. Fantastic shapes appear to
be dancing here and there, and I people the
room with shadows of my own making from
costly mirrors, and I fancy I am walking
through some lonely castle where the spirits of
the long ago departed are met to deplore their
long banishment from the scenes of their child-
hood days. Again I hear that sigh, like the
slow breaking of a desolate heart. I turn my
eyes to whence the sound comes. At a little
distance stands a tall, beautiful woman of thir-
ty-five, the counterpart, only matured, of the
lovely portrait in the picture gallery. The
lady is dressed in black velvet; a costly fichu
of white lace, fastened with a diamond brooch,
is her only ornament. The unutterable woe of
that peerless face causes a thrill of the deepest
pity to pass through my sensitive soul. She
clasps her hands; she raises her tearful eyes to
heaven and softly breathes the prayer, "O God,
have pity on my child!" Then sinks like a
wilted flower to her chair. The low sobs and
visible anguish of that tortured breast arouse
my keenest contempt for the being who caused
so much suffering.


﻿"Beyond the Mississippi" will appear in the
September number.
	The State officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS,
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1884.


SAD OCCURRENCES.

	There are great events transpiring at the pres-
ent time which cannot fail but bring to the
mind of every Latter-day Saints the truth of the
fulfilment of prophecy, ancient and modern.
One of the most notable occurrences is the great
earthquake which took place a short time ago in
England, and there was a terrific shock on the
10th of this month on the eastern coast of the
United States, extending from Sandy Hook to
Portland, Maine. Although no great damage,
or very serious at least, was done, yet it carried
consternation to many thousands of people and
will, no doubt, help to fill men and women with
terror and dismay, as has been prophesied should
be the case in the last days. Asssuredly the Lord
is showing His indignation by thunderings and
lightnings and "earthquakes in divers places,"
and other great calamities and accidents which
seem to be constantly transpiring and fear is tak-
ing hold upon the people, notwithstanding
many assert to the contrary.
	The wicked still continue to persecute the
Saints and seek the lives of those who are labor-
ing to proclaim the Gospel to the honest among
the nations.
	The latest instance of mobocracy occurred
in a place called Cane Creek, Lewis Co., Tenes-
see on Sunday, August 10, while a meeting was
being held on the farm of a man named Con-
der. Twelve masked men appeared upon the
scene, and it is authenticically stated that five
persons (at least) are killed and one woman
thought to be fatally wounded, Mrs. Conder,
wife of the man on whose farm the meeting
was being held. What pain and suffering; what
anguish of soul will be caused by this terrible
tragedy. Innocent, inoffensive, honest young
men, sent to proclaim the glad tidings of salva-
tion and seeking to bring souls to a knowledge
of the truth. Leaving home and all the tender
associations of kindred and friends; going with-
out purse or scrip as the Great Examplar in-
structed His disciples to, depriving themselves
of the comforts and privileges they enjoyed in
Zion willingly to labor in the Master's vineyard.
It is hardly creditable that such dark deeds
could have been enacted as the killing of these
Elders while engaged in devotional exercises on
the Sabbath day; that such a condition of
things could exist in this far-famed land of re-
ligious liberty. Yet so it is. How humiliating
to think that our poor country of which we have
been so proud to boast has fallen into such dis-
grace. What a blight, what a stigma on the na-
tion's escutcheon, that ministers of the Gospel
Jesus taught, while in the discharge of their
important duties should be attacked by a mob
armed and disguised, their lives threatened,
and some even slain. But they are slain for the


testimony of Jesus, and it will be in this in-
stance as it ever has been, "The blood of the
martyrs" will be "the seed of the Church."
	All the particulars of this dastardly outrage
have not as yet been obtained, but enough is al-
ready known to make one weep and mourn for
those who have thus been cut off in the prime
of manhood, and for the dear ones to whom they
were bound by the purest and holiest ties of hu-
man love.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTER ZINA D. H. Young, who has been in
Logan for a short time past officiating in the Tem
ple, came down to the city on Saturday, Aug.
9. She has during her stay in Cache Valley,
in addition to her labors in the Temple, visited
several of the settlements and attended meet-
ings of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciations. At Millville there was a very interest-
ing annual meeting of the Relief Society, and the
singing was done by twelve of the larger girls
of the Primary, who rendered some choice se-
lections in their sweet fresh voices, and which
was a charming feature of the meeting. At
Lewiston the Relief Society had never been vis-
ited by the sisters from Salt Lake and they were
indeed greatly pleased and rejoiced to have Sis-
ter Zina; Sister Presendia Kimball also visited
most of the settlements with Sister Zina and
also went to Meadowville to visit relatives.

	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH went to Mor-
gan on Friday, the first of August, to attend the
Sisters' Conference of that Stake. She returned
on Monday evening, August 4. During the con-
ference Sister Eliza re-organized the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Morgan Stake, which became necessary on
account of the resignation of Sister Mary Jane
Toomar, who expects shortly to move away.
Sister Susannah Heiner was elected President;
and Sisters Mary Welch and Turner her Coun-
selors.

	ON the 16th of July we had the pleasure, in
company with Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, of
attending the Relief Society Conference of Da-
vis Stake, held at Kaysville, Sister Nancy A.
Clark presiding. Bishop Barton of that place
attended both morning and afternoon session.
The Relief Society of that Stake is in a very
prosperous condition; the sisters who take part
in it are faithful, earnest and energetic. After
the Conference adjourned the two Primary As-
sociations met in joint session, Sister Jane
Blood presiding. There were a great number of
children, and they observed the most excellent
order. The singing was particularly sweet and
the exercises were very well rendered. Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers who presides over the P. A.
of that Stake takes the deepest interest in the
advancement of the little people in the Primary
and is untiring in her labors through the coun-
ty.

	WE devote most of the editorial columns of
this issue to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet
given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Much
of this matter has been published in the Ex-
ponent some years since, and also in the Con-
tributor, August, 1882, but as there is still need
of teaching to many not acquainted with these
things, and all may not have read it or even
seen it, it seems highly proper to republish, es-
pecially for the benefit of the sisters actively
engaged in the labors pertaining to the Relief
Society, and who have not the opportunity of
hearing so much valuable instruction as those
residing in this Stake of Zion. We trust the
sisters will not only read these articles (as it
will be continued in the next number), but will
preserve the papers, that these important things
may be kept on record.

[Column 2]
	THE Ladies' fair of Summit County has been
opened at Coalville. It is expected that suffi-
cient money will be raised by the energy and
exertion of the ladies at this Fair to buy the
glass for the Stake Tabernacle.

	OUR readers will doubtless be pleased with the
very ably written address of Mrs. Lu Dalton,
delivered on the 24th of July in Beaver.
	So much space is occupied by the publication
of this address that we are unable to commence
the Biography of Sister Patty Sessions in this
number, but intend doing so in September 1st.
However, we think the article a very excellent
one and the theme, one on which too much can-
not be said.
	Articles on hand for publication: Conference
of Y. L. and Primary Associations of Millard
Stake, A Birthday Party of Patriarch B. F.
Johnson, Relief Society Conference of Sanpete
Stake, "Music" and "Musings" from Orange-
ville, To the Girls, "Correspondence" from Pine
Valley, Woodruff and Hyrum, an essay signed
A. F., and a very ably written letter from Laie.
These articles are considered suitable and will
be published as soon as practicable.


SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH.

HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	"April 28, 1842. At two o'clock, p.m., I met
the members ot the "Female Relief Society,"
and after presiding at the admission of many
new members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in posses-
sion of the privileges, blessings and gifts of the
Priesthood, and that the signs should follow
them, such as healing the sick, casting out dev-
ils, etc., and that they might attain unto these
blessings by a virtuous life and conversation, and
diligence in keeping all the commandments; a
synopsis of which was reported by Miss E. R.
Snow:
	"President Joseph Smith arose and drew the
attention of the meeting to the 12th chapter, I
Corinthians—'Now concerning spiritual gifts, I
would not have you ignorant.' Said that the
passage in the third verse, which reads, 'No man
can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost,' should be translated, 'No man can know
that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost.' He continued to read the chapter, and
give instructions respecting the different offices,
and the necessity of every individual acting in
the sphere allotted him or her, and filling the
several offices to which they were appointed.
	"Spoke of the disposition of many men to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dishonora-
ble, and to look with jealous eyes upon the
standing of others who are called to preside over
them. That it was the folly and nonsense of
the human heart for a person to be aspiring to
other stations than those to which they are ap-
pointed of God for them to occupy; that it was
better for individuals to magnify their respective
callings, and wait patiently till God shall say
to them, 'Come up higher.'
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were
circulating in the Society, against some of the sis-
ters not doing right in laying hands on the sick.
Said that if the people had common sympathies
they would rejoice that the sick could be healed;
that the time had not been before that these
things could be in their proper order; that the
Church is not fully organized, in its proper or-
der, and cannot be, until the Temple is complet-
ed, where places will be provided for the admin-
istration of the ordinances of the Priesthood.
	"President Smith continued the subject, by
quoting the commission given to the ancient


[Column 1]
Apostles in Mark, xvi, 15, 16, 17, 18: "Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized,
shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall
be damned. And these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.'
	"No matter who believeth, these signs, such
as healing the sick, casting out devils, etc.,
should follow all that believe, whether male or
female. He asked the Society if they could not
see, by this sweeping promise, that wherein
they are ordained, it is the privilege of those
set apart to administer in that authority, which
is conferred on them; and if the sisters should
have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their
tongues, and let everything roll on.
	"He said, if God has appointed him, and chos-
en him as an instrument to lead the Church,
why not let him lead it through? Why stand in
the way when he is appointed to do a thing?
Who knows the mind of God? Does He not
reveal things differently from what we expect?
He remarked that he was continually rising, al-
though he had everything bearing him down,
standing in his way, and opposing; notwith-
standing all this opposition, be always came out
right in the end.
	"Respecting females administering for the
healing of the sick, he further remarked, there
could be no devil in it, if God gave His sanction
by healing; that there could be no more sin in
any female laying hands on and praying for the
sick, than in wetting the face with water; it is
no sin for anybody to administer that has faith,
or if the sick have faith to be healed by their
administration.
	"He reproved those that were disposed to find
fault with the management of the concerns of
the Church, saying God had called him to lead
the Church, and he would lead it right, those
that undertake to interfere will be ashamed
when their own folly is made manifest; that he
calculates to organize the Church in its proper
order as soon as the Temple is completed.
	"President Smith continued by speaking of
the difficulties he had to surmount since the
commencement of the work, in consequence of
aspiring men. 'Great big Elders,' as he called
them, who had caused him much trouble; to
whom he had taught the things of the kingdom
in private councils, they would then go forth in-
to the world and proclaim the things he had
taught them, as their own revelations; said the
same aspiring disposition will be in this Society,
and must be guarded against; that every person
should stand, and act in the place appointed,
and thus sanctify the Society and get it pure.
He said he had been trampled under foot by as-
piring Elders, for all were affected by that spir-
it; for instance, John E. Page and others had
been aspiring; they could not be exalted, but
must run away, as though the the care and au-
thority of the Church were vested with them.
He said he had a subtle devil to deal with, and
could only curb him by being humble.
	'As he had this opportunity, he was going to
instruct the ladies of this Society, and point out
the way for them to conduct themselves, that
they might set according to the will of God;
that he did not know that he should have many
opportunities of teaching them, as they were
going to be left to themselves; they would not
long have him to instruct them; that the Church
would not have his instructions long, and the
world would not be troubled with him a great
while, and would not have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful

[Column 2]
members of the Relief Society should receive
them in connection with their husbands, that
the Saints whose integrity has been tried and
proved faithful, might know how to ask the
Lord and receive an answer; for according to his
prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere. He
exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their
faith and prayers for, and place confidence in
their husbands, whom God has appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men
whom God has placed at the head of the Church
to lead His people; that we should arm and sus-
tain them with our prayers; for the keys of the
kingdom are about to be given to them, that
they may be able to detect everything false: as
well as to all the Elders who shall prove their
integrity in due season.
	"He said if one member becomes corrupt, and
you know it, you must immediately put it
away, or it will either injure or destroy the
whole body. The sympathies of the heads of
the Church have induced them to bear a long
time with those who are corrupt, until they are
obliged to cut them off, lest all become con-
taminated; you must put down iniquity, and by
your good examples, stimulate the Elders to
good works; if you do right, there is not danger
of your going too fast. He said he did not care
how fast we run in the path of virtue; resist
evil, and there is no danger; God, men and an-
gels will not condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil, and devils cannot; as well
might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as
overthrow an innocent soul that resists every-
thing which is evil."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
[line break]
	On the 15th of July, in company of Presi-
dents Louie Felt and Ellen Clawson, we attend-
ed an annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of Sugar House Ward.  The meeting was
conducted by the President, Mrs. McGhie.
	The exercises of the children were very cred-
itably rendered, exhibiting the effect of careful
training.  We noticed a marked improvement
from one year ago, in a large increase. In num-
bers, and also in the very excellent order of the
children.  One highly pleasing feature in the
exercises was extempore speeches by s[-]ven or
eight of the boys in succession.  We felt in-
tensely interested in all of the exercises of the
girls as well as the boys, considering them, as
we do, true indications of future usefulne[--].
	It was plainly manifest that their President
and her Counselors have won the hearts of those
children, which is the key to success in mould-
ing and guiding in the right direction.  Love is
the ruling power in these associations.
	The children invited us to join in a picnic af-
ter the close of services; and with promptitude
tables were bountifully spread for aged, middle-
aged and every child, of which all partook in so-
cial order.	E.R.S.S.


﻿A MARK OF RESPECT.
[line break]
	On the 24th of July, the 61st anniversary of
her birthday, Sister Elizabeth Clark, President
of the Primary Association in the Fifth Ward,
was the recipient of a very graceful expression
of the affection and respect of the children com-
posing that organization, and their appreciation
of her labors in their behalf.  Two elegant vases
were presented to her, on behalf of the Asso[-]ia-
tion, by Misses Lizzie Brown and Marsd[-]n, two
little girls who aollected the subscriptions, pur-
chased the articles and made the presentation
in a manner very creditable to themselves, and
highly gratifying to Sister Clark, who was as
much surprised as she was pleased at the occur-
ence.								COM.


HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
	It has often been said that there is no love so
enduring, so constant and unwavering, as a
mother's love.  This view, as a rule, I coincide
with, and I think it may be as truthfully said
that there is no love more ardent and irresistible
than that existing between husband and wife
if based upon pure principles, it breaks down all
barriers, sweeping all before it with a [---] not
easily withstood.  There is something most pe-
culiar about this love between the sexes which
the Lord has certainly implanted in the human
heart by divine power, and which is inseparably
our Heavenly Father.  Where marriage is what
it should be, a union of two souls, where two
hearts beat in unison, and the thoughts and as-
pirations are pure and holy, there, certainly, 
does true love exist.
	How often do we see a strong, vigorous man
devotedly attached to an invalid wife, patiently
striving to alleviate her suffering, and to convert
even her moments of pain into pleasure by the
strength of his love.
	And again, there is a young, innocent maid-
en, possessing a happy home, kind, indulgent
parents, and loving brothers and sisters, and
surrounded, it would seem, by all that is neces-
sary for her happiness, but there is still some-
thing lacking; and she willingly foresakes all this
to join her fate to that of a man she has
learned to love and revere with all the fervor of
her young, trusting heart.  Perhaps it is but a
short time since he was a total stranger to her,
but this matters not, she is willing to trust her
future happiness in his keeping, to share his lot
in life, though perhaps it may be a much hum-
bler one than she has been used to.  She will
even, in many cases, leave the land of her birth,
the home of her childhood, with little hopes of
ever seeing them again, sundering all other
earthly ties to follow this comparative strang-
er.
	How careful should husbands and wives be
that they do not trifle with this holy feeling;
that they do not let this love cool, or die out in
their hearts; for without it there are many
trials in married life which would be hard to 
bear.
	True love, properly cultivated, will not dimin-
ish with the advance of years, but will continu-
ally grow brighter and stronger, each fresh tie
and new pledge of love binding the hearts of the
parents more firmly together, with a chain
which will never rust, but grow brighter with
the using; a cord which will grow stronger and
never snap asunder.  If this is what they de-
sire, the wife must never grow less considerate,
but rather seek more earnestly to smooth the
way and remove the thorns from her husband's
path as the cares of life increase upon him.  It
devolves on him to battle with the outside
world, to struggle with the stern realities of life,
to gain a livelihood for the loved ones who are
dependent upon him; to stand between them
and danger.  And the wife has it more or less in
her power to make it a labor of love rather than
an irksome duty, by order and comfort in their
home, love in her heart and a smile on her
face. 
	And on the other hand, I often wonder if
many husbands realize what an easy matter it is
to make or mar a woman's happiness, and how
much depends upon him in this matter.
	Her greatest joy is not occasioned by his build-
ing her a fine house; nor by buying her a new
dress or an organ, neither by elaborate or ex-
travagant demonstrations of affection in the
presence of others.  Oft times a silent pressure
of the hand or loving glance of the eye is far
more potent; they touch the tenderest chord of
the heart and waken a response more eloquent
than words.


Oh, if husbands could only realize how prec-
ious to a wife are these little endearments, they
would certainly not be so grudgingly given.
	A woman appreciates these seeming trifles far
more in her times of trouble and sickness than
she did when a blushing maiden in the old
courting days. A husband may be so kind and
considerate that the wife will often say to her-
self, "he is the very best husband in the
world."
	Yet at the same time, while passing through
some of the trials peculiar to her sex, her heart
yearns for a little word of love; she hungers and
thirsts for those endearments which were once
so lavishly bestowed, and doubts of his contin-
ued love force themselves upon her, until she
becomes moody, miserable, and, at times, even
disagreeable.  How little it would cost him and
how it would lighten the burden of her some-
times overcharged heart, to speak one word of
affection, which would act like magic, dispel
the clouds and bring sunshine in their stead.
				ETKA.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


							WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.
				_____

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms on Saturday, August 9, commencing at
2 p.m., Counselor Zina D. H. Young presiding.
After singing prayer was offered by Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, and Sisters Howard, Horne and
Kimball prayed for, that they might be speed-
ily restored to health. Minutes of previous
meeting were read and approved, and the report
of an annual meeting of the four Primary As-
sociations of Mill Creek was read by the Secre-
tary. Sister Zina was the first to address the
meeting; she dwelt eloquently upon the bless-
ings and good influences experienced while en-
gaged in working in the Temple at Logan, also
of her visits to the Associations and among the
people in that vicinity, and made many very
excellent remarks upon the order and purposes
of our lives here upon the earth.
	Sisters E. B. Wells and E. S. Taylor made
some suggestions to the sisters on matters per-
taining to their particular labors, and alluded to
the need of improvement in spiritual intelli-
gence, and so forth. After which Sister Zina
called upon the sisters in the congregation to ex-
press themselves.
	Sisters Watmough, Paul, Freeze, Bird and
Dyer each made some remarks; and Sister Dyer
spoke quite powerfully in the gift of tongues;
Sister Elizabeth Paul was called upon by Sister
Zina and gave the interpretation. Miss Emma
Finch made a few very touching remarks upon
the subject of healing in a very impressive man-
ner.
	Sung Doxology.  Benediction by Miss Alice
Jenkins, in which two of the sisters who were
sick were earnestly remembered before the
Lord.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

ST. GEORGE.

	The Relief Society of the St. George Stake
of Zion held their Quarterly Conference at the
Lyceum Hall, St. George, on Friday, June
13th. There was not so large an attendance
as usual, owing, probably, to the unfavorable
condition of the roads for traveling, from the
unusual amount of rain which has fallen this
spring, but a good spirit prevailed. The re-
ports read were satisfactory, showing an in-
crease in members, and a general feeling and
desire to improve in all things, and to attend
to the admonitions and carry out the instruc-
tions that are given.

[Column 2]
	Apostle Erastus Snow in his address re-
marked that the sisters had done remarkably
well in the way they had observed the word
of wisdom, and exhorted them to continue
faithful in all their labors, and they would not
lose their reward.
	Elder Henry Eyring encouraged the sisters
to persevere in their efforts to raise silk, as it
would no doubt become a lucrative employ-
ment, as silk was now being raised in Amer-
ica instead of being imported from France and
China.
	The Young Ladies' and Primary Associa-
tions are doing a good work. The minds of
the young are expanding, and in very many
cases they seem able to grasp the truths of the
Goepel and comprehend its first principles.
	May the Lord shower down his blessings
upon those who organized, and those who sus-
tain those institutions.
					M. A. G. B, Secretary.

TEMPE, ARIZONA.

	On the 18th of January, 1884, the Primary
Association of Tempe was organized under
the direction of Prest. D. T. LeBaron with
Vilate E. LeBaron, President; Geneva John-
son and Mamie Hawley, Counselors; Winnie
Johnson, Secretary and Treasurer. We have
fifty names enrolled, with an average attend-
ance of thirty-five. Our programmes are well
carried out, although the members are mostly
under ten years of age. The children are all
willing to do their best. We meet once a week
and all seem to feel well in their labors with
the Primary.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
						MAMIE HAWLEY.

	On the 30th of January, 1884, the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Tempe was organized as follows, and
the officers set apart under the direction of
Prest. D. T. LeBaron: S. E. Russell, Prest.;
Zina LeBaron and Mary Johnson, Counselors;
Nettie Johnsen, Secretary; Amelia Rogers,
Treasurer; Jennie LeBaron, Librarian.
	We have twenty names enrolled, with an
average attendance of fourteen. We meet
once a week, and conjointly with the Y. M. M.
I. A. once a month. We have a manuscript
paper, which has been very good; our pro-
grammes are well carried out, and although
our numbers are small we have good meetings
and realize partially, if not fully, the import-
ance of preparing for the work which is ready
and waiting for the Saints to perform.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			NETTIE JOHNSON, Secretary.

ORANGEVILLE, EMERY CO.

	Minutes of the Third Semi-Annual Confer-
ence of the Relief Society of Emery Stake,
held at Orangeville, Aug. 1st, 1884, President
Anna U. Larson presiding. Usual opening
exercises, minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, also statistical and financial reports for
the last half year. All the wards represented
seem to be doing well.
	Prest. Anna M. Larson spoke very encour-
agingly; pointed out the duties of the presi-
dents and teachers, also the duty of every
mother in living her religion, gathering her
little ones around, and attending to prayer in
the absence of the husband. Urged all to live
very near to their Heavenly Father; spoke of
the calamities that were coming upon the na-
tions; hoped that we would live in that way
that we may escape the judgments of God.
Advised us to love one another and cease evil
speaking.
	Sisters Joanna Childs, Ann Pulsipher and
M. Logan, also Bro. Logan and Bishop J.
Robertsen addressed the conference upon
home industry, Primary Associations, etc., all
giving good advice and expressing a desire to
do their duties in every respect.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Guiman.
	Afternoon session opened with singing
Prayer by Bro. Andrew Anderson. Singing.
Sister S. A. Fullmer was the first speaker—
pointed out the necessity of every legal voter
being on hand to vote on eleetion day, though
the right of franchise had been wrested from
those who had embraced celestial marriage,
everyone who still has the privilege should not
shirk this duty, for it is our duty as much as
anything else to maintain every right that we
enjoy, for if we are negligent even this right
may be taken from us.
	A number of the brethern and sisters ad-
vanced principles that all will do well to re-
member and practice through our lives.
	A letter from Sister E. B. Wells, a portion
of which was read, was appreciated very much
indeed, for though we are deprived of the
privilege of having those sisters meet with us
at present, we are happy to hear from them.
The Spirit of the Lord was with us and all
seemed to enjoy themselves.
	Conference adjourned till the 6th of Feb.
1884, to meet at Ferron. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. W. Avery.
			ANNA U. LARSEN, President,
			ANNIE E. SEELY, Secretary.

PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the Relief Society of Utah Co.,
held March 30th, 1884. Present on the stand
Counselors Mary John and Rhoda Lyman.
Visitors from the city, Sisters Snow and Horne.
Conference opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer. The minutes of last con-
ference read and approved. As there were no
written reports the Presidents gave short ver-
bal reports. The societies, as a general thing,
were in a flourishing condition, and wide
awake to their duties and responsibilities.
	Sister John, after speaking a short time, in-
troduced to the conference our new Counselor to
Sister Smoot—she having never met with us
before on account of ill health.
	Sister Rhoda Lyman then expressed her
pleasure at meeting with the sisters, and her
desire to help with every good work; also bore
her testimony to the truth of this Latter-day
work, and desired the faith and prayers of
all.
	Sister Horne was pleased to listen to Sister
Lyman, who was a capable woman, and who
would yet become strong and do a mighty work.
We should seek the Spirit of God, for without
it we cannot do the work that is before us.
There is enough for all to do. Although we
may not all occupy prominent positions, yet if
we are humble and enjoy the spirit of the Gos-
pel we will find favor with the Almighty; she
made other good remarks.
	Sister Snow Smith said I want to mention
one thing that has pleased me this morning.
No one has wasted time in apologizing. Blessed
Sister Lyman in her first attempt at speaking;
said the Lord would bless and strengthen her
and make her to rejoice and shout Hosanna.
The Spirit of God is in our midst—we are all
missionaries sent from the eternal worlds. If
the vail could be withdrawn and we could see
the blessings pronounced upon us before we
came here we would rejoice. We should culti-
vate the Comforter in our hearts and obey the
counsels of those in authority. We did not
come here just for our own comfort, but to do
good to others, speak a comforting word to the
sorrowing, raise up the bowed down. A fitting
word of reproof often accomplishes great good.
Gave much more good advice and counsel.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball said, I am pleased
to meet with you again after being absent from
you for some time. I have tried to faithfully
represent you wherever I have been. I never
spoke in public while away, but the chimney
corner, by the fireside, was my place for ex-


pounding the truths of Mormonism. I real-
ized more than ever my dependence upon God.
You cannot realize, without being among them,
the feelings of the world towards us as a peo-
ple. They appeared surprised to see a woman
from Utah with a pleasant countenance. They
seem to have the impression that we are sad
and oppressed. I advised them to come and
see the cheerful, noble spirits we have here. I
took a great many of our books and cards with
me, and offered them to any that would like to
read them. Some took them to read, but said
they did not expect to be converted.  I enjoyed
myself very much with the aged, and many
shed tears at parting with me.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.  Prayer by
Mother Duke.
	Afternoon session commenced as usual with
singing and prayer.  A few of the presidents
gave reports of their societies, after which Sis-
ter E. R. S. Smith spoke for a short time.  Said,
I often think we underate ourselves considering
the great work we are called upon to perform,
to assist in the salvation of the living and the
dead; to lift the curse that was placed upon
woman and bring her back to her original pos-
ition, and to assist in redeeming the earth and
lift it to its former place near to the home of
our Father. Never has woman occupied so
important a position—to purify ourselves to re-
turn back into the presence of our Father and
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Can we
comprehend it? How many of us to-day have
faith enough to receive our dead to life again,
or to go into a fiery furnace? Let us keep our
standing and duties before us and we will be
prepared for anything.  Let our enemies do
their worst, they cannot do more than God will
let them. There will  be a time when the sin-
ner in Zion will tremble. The priesthood has
been greatly benefited by these societies.  They
help the poor in spirit as well as in means;
by and by there will be no poor among us.
Now we have another Temple open and the
spirits in prison are rejoicing. Let us do
everything with an eye single to the glory of
God.
	Sister Horne made further remarks on
housekeeping and good cooking. Said we want
to learn all things. Teach your children
order; do not allow them to run at large;
teach them good manners, and to be truthful
and respectful, and cultivate their hearts at
home. The younger you commence the bet-
ter. What nobler work for mothers? We
do not realize this as we should. Do teach
them the ways of the Lord. Lay the founda-
tion that they may grow up strong minded and
fearless in everything that is right; set good
examples before them. A woman is noble who
makes home dear to her children—be awake
to your duties. Teach your children to vote
when they are old enough, and to esteem the
privilege. Let us not say all is well in Zion.
It is time that we arouse ourselves. Let us
never betray our trusts, but be true, that we
may inherit eternal life.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by L. W. Kimball.
				C. Daniels, Secretary.
				____

		MANTI, SOUTH WARD.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     The Relief Society of this ward was organ-
ized February 2nd, 1882, with Sister Eliza-
beth Casto as President, Sisters Maria Jenson
and Sarah Jane Lowry, Counselors, who are
exemplary women, with the Gospel at the bot-
tom of their hearts, and ever ready to strength-
en the weak. They assist the bishop to take
care of the poor and lend a helping hand to
the sick and afflicted. We have also a num-
ber of good sisters who are willing to act as
teachers and we have no trouble to get them.
They all realize that it is a noble mission in
which they are engaged. We have quite a
number of poor and aged in this ward who
are looking for our charity, and to my knowl-
edge none are suffering for the real necessities
of life. Our means is increasing, therefore we
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father.
	May every Relief Society throughout the
land of Zion prosper, and fulfill the charitable
duties devolving upon all, and let wisdom be
one of the counselors in each is my sincere
prayer.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
							A. R. K.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


﻿A NEW CONVERT.
				______

Editor Exponent:
	The thought came to me to write you a few
lines about the way in which the truth came
to me and how I received it.  I had never
seen a Mormon in my life that I knew to be
one.  My sister had, twenty-seven years ago,
in Australia, received the truth with her hus-
band and seven children, six sons and one
daughter.  They had gone to Utah and for
years we heard but little of them.  My sister
wrote and told me she had embraced the Mor-
mon faith, saying it was the true Gospel.  It
seemed all so strange to me.  I took the trouble
to inquire into it, feeling she must be de-
ceived.  For years I lost sight of her and her
family.
	As long as I can remember I had a desire
to know, serve and obey the living and true
God; with all my heart I longed to find Him.
I tried the Wesleyan Church, I also sought the
Lord in private prayer, and had many answers
to my prayers.  The Lord often seemed very
near to me.  I tried to walk before him blame-
less; I watched professing Christians; sought
the advise of ministers; all told me to believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ and I should be saved.
I did believe; I thought I was saved.  Who
was I to pray to, I asked, the Father, the Son,
or the Holy Spirit?  Oh!  to either, it was all
the same, I was told.
	After a while I got somewhat disgusted with
it all and left the Wesleyan church, and for
years wandered without  any guidance in the
way to heaven.  I had visions and dreams, en-
joyed much of the inflluence of the unseen
world.  No one seemed to understand me.  One
lady said I was very mythical, but in secret I
cried, “Lead me to the true and living God.”
Years passed in this way.  I had given myself
so entirely to the true and living God, and
trusted Him to make all things right, and did
not doubt but He would in His own due time.
Suddenly I heard that one of my sister’s sons
was in England on a mission.  What did it
mean?  I asked myself.  Do the Mormons send
out their messengers to England to preach?
What does it all mean?  For months I heard
of him and his work.  Some warned me of
him, others simply told me about his work; one
said, “He is very busy among us.”
	All summer passed in this way.  One, day
a letter came from my brother saying my
nephew, who had warned me of my Mormon
nephew, was won over and had been baptised
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.  This I could not understand, as he be-
longed to the Plymouth Brethren.  I really
knew not what to think.  Not having replied
to his letter of warning I took the opportunity
to write and ask him.  His answer was, yes,
dear aunt, it is true that I am baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He went on to say, believe nothing of these
people but what they say themselves.  This
was worse and worse.  Must they sound their
own trumpet?  I thought my nephew must be
beside himself to talk in this way.
	One day I was told that Mr. Nye wanted to
see me.  (The same Mr. Nye was my Mormon
nephew, of whom I had heard so much, at the
present time president of the London Confer-
ence.)  I was pleased to see him, and to hear
of my dear sister and her family after all
these years.  The Mormon doctrine was an-
other thing.  It seemed, however, I could not
have one without the other.  He had come,
not so much to see his Aunt Fanny, as to set
the truth before her.  I could see he had come
for this purpose.  Not to listen would be to
condemn, not only him, but the Church he
came to represent, unheard, and this, I knew,
would not be wise or kind. All I wanted on
earth was to do the will, of the Almighty.  I
lifted my heart to Him to be kept, and sat
down to listen to my Mormon nephew.
	It was a wonderful story.  I was taken by
surprise, as he, with the Bible in his hand,
showed so plain that all the Christian churches
were in confusion.  I had often wondered
if Christ would find His bride in the churches
on the earth, as they said He would when He
came again.  The Holy Spirit was with me as
the Mormon Elder told it all out, putting it
the other way about, faith in God, repentance,
baptism for the remission of sins, laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.  It all
flashed upon me.  It is Scripture, I said to my-
self, and saw I should have to give up; I knew
from that hour that I must become a Latter-
day Saint, a hated Mormon; because the Lord
must have His way; I had settled that long
ago, that what the Lord made plain to me in
that I would obey Him, Little did I think
He was leading me through this gate of bap-
tism into the Mormon Church, but so it was.
I praise His Holy name.  One difficulty after
another was cleared away by the Lord’s mes-
senger, that in my innermost soul I gave way.
Not so outwardly; I must search and prove
the doctrine before acknowledging it was from
God. I must confess I shrank from the change
that it was plain to me must take place; so I
set myself prayerfully to investigate to see if
it must, indeed seeing all the while by the
light of the Holy Spirit, given in answer to
prayer, it must.  A correspondence between us
lasted some weeks, then I could hold out no
longer, and really did not wish to hold out
longer.  Question after question had been put
and answered to my satisfaction.  My patient
instructor, the Mormon Elder, had met the
longing of the depths of my inmost soul,
which had been pent up for years.  I wrote
freely, not dreaming any one but my nephew
saw what I wrote; it was best so, at least I think
so, had I thought otherwise the full pouring
out of my inmost thoughts would have
been withheld, which would not have brought
so rich a blessing.  So, dear madam, it came to
pass that I was baptized in the Serpentine,
London, on the 26th day of January, 1883,
and was confirmed the day following by the
laying on of hands.  The warm feeling of four
hands on my head came in itself as a comforter
to me.  The sisters gathered round me after- 
wards, said what a rich blessing mine was; I
was highly favored, they said; I could only re-
member the words, “May you be filled with
the Holy Spirit from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet.” It was enough; it 
was the witness to me that all was right, being
the one thing I desired above all others, to be
filled with the Spirit of the living God.
	What a change came over me from that
hour.  I felt let into a large room.  I had not
climbed over the wall, but had gone in by the
door into the sheep-fold, where I might find
pasture; and in humbling myself before the
Lord and obeying His laws through the
Church, I find life abounding, knowledge in-
creasing on every side.
 At first the Priesthood was a little trouble
to me.  I failed to see its use.  I had always
been a little prejudiced against young ministers
from college.  What could they know? They


failed to get my confidence. The same thing
crept up about the young Elders of the Church,
but the Holy Spirit is always with me to teach
me. I spoke, also, to Elder Nye, and he put
me right. Going on obeying in all things I
find myself rejoicing in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Do I regret? No, I do not. I rejoice daily
as the Holy Spirit opens to my understanding
the wonders of eternity.
	I am superintendent of a small Female Home.
One of my assistants, who embraced the truth
with me, is now on her way to the land of Zion,
having gone with the last company of Saints.
My present assistants are one with me in the
true Gospel.		*		*		*		*
	We all hope to gather home, as we have
learned to call it, as soon as the way opens.
Others of my friends having had the truth put
before them have obeyed the laws of God, and
are looking forward to going to the Rocky
Mountain regions.
	There is no branch of the Church here, we
therefore have no meetings where we can be
taught the ways or doings of the saints. The
Elders call sometimes, and we are very glad to
see them. They stay for a night; they get re-
freshed and we get blest.
	Pardon me for taking up so much of your
valuable time.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
								F. B.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM TENNESSEE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Though living in this far off land, separated
from the body of the Church comprising the
Latter-day Saints, I feel like lifting my voice
and bearing my testimony to what I believe to
be the principles of eternal truth. I am as it
were, one lone sheep off to its self, being the
only one in this county who has yet stepped
forward and taken on the whole armor of the
Gospel. And having through the kindness of
the Elders, been presented with some copies of
your valuable paper, which so nobly advo-
cates the cause of our religion, and the rights
of the down-trodden and oppressed of all na-
tions.
	I thought through its medium to let my sis-
ters know that my thoughts and heart are with
them, in the glorious work in which they are
engaged. And having cast off the sectarian
notions which I have been taught from my in-
fancy, and identified myself with that people
who are so constantly maligned and misrepre-
sented by the pulpit and press.
	I feel that their weal is my weal, and their
woe is my woe, and look forward anxiously for
the time when the so called Mormon question
which is puzzeling the wise Solons of our na-
tion at present, shall be understood as it
really exists. And having full and implicit
confidence in the truth of the old adage which
says, "Truth is mighty and will prevail," I
know that time will come, for the work is a
progressive one, from the fact that its leader is
Omnipotent; and all the combined forces of
darkness may array themselves against it, but
their efforts to stay its progress will be unavail-
ing.
	I often sit and meditate upon the blessings
that can be enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
if they only live for them. Gathered out and
separated from those who know not the ways of
the Lord, they are permitted to assemble them-
selves together unmolested by their enemies.
	And that spirit of kindness, which I imag-
ine is so characteristic of a people who have
learned by bitter experience that not every
one who says, "Lord Lord," are sincere in
their hearts, can be cultivated and bring them
nearer to that point of perfection that we are
striving to gain.
	Here everything is different, the wrangling

[Column 2]
sects which compose modern Christanity are
ever ready to oppose everything that does not
conform to their standard.
	And while they have a form of Godliness
they deny the power thereof, just as the Scrip-
tures have foretold, which causes division in
their midst, until they are like a ship without
a rudder drifted about at the mercy of the
wind and waves. And instead of making the
Kingdom of God their chief aim, it is a second-
ary consideration with them who seek only for
the praise of their fellow man, forgetting that
the broad road is the one leading to destruc-
tion, and many there be who go in thereat.
	For my part I prefer the narrow way which
leads to the tree of life, even though its path-
way be thorny at the start, yet the satisfaction
we will have in partaking of its fruits will
more than compensate for the trials we have to
undergo in reaching it.
	By taking a retrospective view of the past
we can see how the truth has always been
received by the majority of the human family.
We need only to look at the days of Noah,
Lot, Daniel, Jeremiah, our Savior and His
Apostles, to convince ourselves that the emis-
aries of Satan have always opposed it, and
if the words of the Apostle Paul be true we
may expect the future to bring the same re-
sults; for he made the emphatic declaration
that all that will live Godly in Christ Jesus
shall suffer persecution.
	Then let us be thankful that we are permit-
ted to live in this day and age of the world,
when the Gospel is restored to the earth once
more, and that we have been the recipients
of it.
	Then, dear sisters, let us live our religion, re-
gardless of the threats and sheers we have to
meet. I feel that I would love to take the
sisters of Utah by the hand and express to
them the feelings my pen is incapable of do-
ing justice to, and receive from them words
of comfort that would cheer me in my lonely
position.
	Hoping and praying that truth may tri-
umph in its onward march and overcome error
and shine forth as brightly as the stars in the
firmament, I will close by asking an interest in
the prayers of my sisters, and all lovers of
righteousness, I subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the covenant of peace,
					ELIZABETH SEALS.


ITEMS ON BIBLE TRANSLATION.
				_____

	To all lovers of truth and the original text it
is annoying to have ancient works, and especial-
ly the Scriptures, translated wrong, to know
that what we read is, perhaps, not true.
	There has been many translations of the
Bible, but all have contained some mistakes; it
estimated that the present accepted translation,
King James, contains some thousands. In the
New Testament, revised A D 1881, the altera-
tions made in the Gospels and Acts are 14,601
by actual count; while in the whole volume the
total number of changes are 36,191. I think the
meaning of the sentences have not been altered,
but only the phraseology; as for instance, the
41st verse in the 6th chapter of St. John, as giv-
en in King James, reads, “The Jews then mur-
mured at Him because He said, I am the break
which came down from heaven.”  In the revis-
ed version it is rendered, “The Jews therefore
murmured concerning Him because He said, I
am the broad which came out of heaven.
	The old translation is preferred by many as
the quotations are familiar, besides many of the
ideas being more beautifully expressed.
	I have compared some facts of the New Testa-
ment, old and revised versions, with the Book
of Mormon, and the latter is almost identical
with the old version, a few sentences being more
plainly expressed. This may be proved by com-
paring the fifth, sixth and seventh chapters of
St. Matthew with pages five to nine of the re-
vised version, and in the Book of Mormon,
Christ’s instructions to the Nephites when He
visited them, the part in question beginning on
page 459, second European Edition. 
					ANNIE FELLOWS.


For Sale at this Office
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER Nos. 1 and 2, 		25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c	"
POEMS by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1			$1.00 "
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1. 25 "
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	george A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth $1.25, in morocco		1.50		"
_____________________________________________________

				   DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I
	SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
	OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
	Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Resident Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Residence
_____________________________________________________

			ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
						____

					    Z. C. M. I.

			       SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND BJOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

			We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
_____________________________________________________

				   Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Street.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1884.	No. 7.


"HE FAILETH NOT."

I have tried love, and I have known love fail;
Have trusted friends, and found that friends forgot;
Sought help from my own heart without avail—
				"He faileth not."

Neither by day or night, in age or youth.
In poverty, and in the fairest lot,
In sorrow and in joy, His word is truth—
				"He faileth not."

If I should let all other comforts go.
And every other promise were forgot.
My soul would sit and sing, because I know
			"He faileth not."

I cannot tell what winds of God may blow,
What safe or perilous ways may be my lot;
But I have little care, for this I know—
				"He faileth not."

—WOMAN'S JOURNAL.


[Column 1]
A DAY--DREAM.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

Concluded.

	At that moment a dignified man of forty
entered the room. His raven locks and dark,
flashing eyes, his grand step and haughty mien,
contrasts forcibly with the fair, heart-broken
lady before him. He stands and gazes on his
wife with a curling lip for a moment. Then,
with a stern look and voice ejaculates, "Madam!"
With a half shriek she starts to her feet, and,
with outstretched hands and beseeching look
she cries, "O Arthur, where is my child? Give
her back to me!" I turn from the lady to the
husband and ah! I recognize him as the des-
troyer of the poor girl I saw in the street.
With the cold, sinister look and modulated
voice of the educated, hypocritical libertine,
he exclaims, "Madam, you have no child! Dare
not to call that shameless girl your daughter!
Speak not her name in my presence."
"Arthur torture me not by these heartless
words. Think of her youth and innocence."
"Madam, you forget yourself!" "No, Arthur,
it is you who forgets. You know how pure
and child-like she was before you brought that
libertine to our home. You know how fascin-
ating this man was, and how he fastened the
fangs of his treacherous wiles around, the
heart of our innocent child. How often
have I plead with you to have him discontinue
his visits here, but you pooh, poohed and said
he was a good fellow and a gentleman. O
Arthur, in pity tell me where my daughter is!"
"For once, madam, I will humble myself by
speaking of this innocent girl. I have engaged
one of your strong-minded women, a philan-
thropist as you would term her. I have given
her a sum of money to hide her shame, that I
may never see her more. Her name is Mrs.
S." "Arthur, dare me not too far. I am but
a weak woman, but I am a mother still." "I
tell you, madam, you have no child. Never
mention that wanton's name in my presence
again." "Inhuman father! how dare you call
that child a wanton? O man of profound eru-
dition, united with virtues par excellence, know,
then, that I am cognizant of your incongrui-
ties, and that your supposed virtues are dia-
metrically opposite to your real character.
Arthur, you have a mistress! I have known
it for years; and I have suffered the torments
of hell from your infidelity, but never before

[Column 2]
have I allowed the polluted name to pass my
lips. Aye! blush, hypocrite, for your wife's hu-
miliation." With a sneer he replied, "Nay,
madam, I did not blush; but as you are so wise
as to understand so well the incongruities of
your husband, we had better take our innocent
daughter and start for Salt Lake. You would
be a paragon of a first wife, and then my lady
need not blush for her husband's supposed
frailties." "Think not, sir. to intimidate me by
your sarcastic evasions. Neither do I coincide
with you in your ironical similitudes; I abhor
plurality, but better be in Salt Lake where
men acknowledge their wives and children
than be subject to the eternal torture of know-
ing of your husband's infidelity!" "My learned
lady, I will, at the next session of Congress,
propose you as a lady champion for the Mor-
mon people." "Better, sir, be the champion of a
people who follow in the ancient patriarchs foot-
steps than be associated with those who seduce the
innocent and then trample their victims under
their feet." "Cease your insinuations, madam,
or you leave my house and go with your fair
daughter." The lady starts to her feet, with
flashing eyes and distended nostrils, like a
lioness at bay, ready to spring at the destroyer
of her young, with her face ablaze with anger,
with one foot put forward and one arm raised
to heaven, as if to curse the smooth faced hypo-
crite before her. She stands for a moment
looking at her husband and the father of her
child. Perhaps some thought of her youthful
days, when all was bright and happy, the re-
membrance of the joy of her husband when
she presented her first and only child to him,
of the proud delight of the father and the
crowing of the babe when he would play bo-
peep with their darling, passed like a fleeting
sunbeam through her fevered brain. But it
only stayed the curse. Her arm drops motion-
less to her side; her countenance becomes livid;
she looks like a living corpse. Her husband's
face becomes as ghastly as her own, and his
frame trembles like an aspen leaf. At last a
voice issues from those frozen lips, low and
sepulchral, but with such woe and pathos that
it is enough to make angels weep for pity, and
send the cowering wretch before her to the
confines of the damned. "Thou guilded
sepulchre! I go to my daughter, and I pray the
Father of the innocent that the same grave
may enclose both mother and child. Never
will I see your face again. If the Lord, for
some wise purpose, prolongs our blighted lives,
we will seek some foreign shore, where in sor-
row and seclusion, we may find that peace
which has been denied us here. I curse you
not; let your own heart be its accuser." With
a yearning look of love and agony she glides
from the room.
	Quickly she reaches her chamber. She
takes a change of linen, her purse and casket
of jewels, and places them in a small valise,
dons a water proof cloak, a hat and veil, and
silently leaves the house, before her almost
paralyzed husband has time to think or move.
When he had recovered from the stupefaction
into which his wife's magnetism had thrown
him, he starts to his feet. In a paroxysm of
alarm he rushes from the room ex-
claiming, "She shall not go! I will not
be disgraced by affording a gossiping com-
munity matter for criticizing my domestic infe-
licities. I will confine her to her room to-
night. To-morrow take her to Europe." He
enters his wife's chamber, intending to enforce

[Column 3]
his tyrannical intentions. "Ah! she is gone!
Fool, to let her get the start of me! I will fol-
low her. No, that would proclaim to the
world my disgrace. I will let her go, and say she
and her daughter are gone to visit friends. She
has no relatives. Some fever shall take them
off. I will go to their mock funeral, and come
back a disconsolate widower. Let them go!
I cannot give up my reputation. I am confi-
dent my wife will keep her word." He sinks
into a chair and exclaims, "Heavens! how the
truth of her statements paralyzed me. What
devil told her of my misalliance! I thought I
was safe. Had I known my gentle wife had
such power of endurance, yet withal such a
strong mind and will, I would not have carried
measures with such a high hand. She nearly
took my breath with her indignant reproaches."
But it is past, and there let it rest."
	I follow the lady about a half a mile, to the
suburbs of the city, and with her hasten up
the steps of the cottage. The bell is answered
by a servant. The lady inquires for Mrs. S.
The servant answers, "she is very much en-
gaged; I am afraid she cannot see you." The
lady gives the servant her card and bids her
hasten with it to her mistress. We wait but a
minute in the sitting room, when Mrs. S. comes
rushing in. She takes the poor mother by the
hand and says, "O my dear lady I am so
thankful you are come! Your daughter has
just been delivered of a dead babe, and is in
great danger. The poor girl has been calling
for her mother, but I did not know where to
find you, or know that you would come if I
did."
	They hasten up the stairs and into a light,
airy chamber, where lay the dying girl. When
she sees her mother she cries, with outstretched
arms, "O ma, forgive your poor dying child!"
"My child! my baby! thank God I see you
again, but not dying! My darling, live to bless
your heart-broken mother!" "No, ma, it is
better so. I could not live and bear this dis-
grace. Lay my head on your breast, ma, as
you used to, and pray to our Father in Heaven
to forgive your poor sinful child. There, that
is nice, ma. How I wish we could both go to-
gether. Now lay me down on the pillow, put
your arm around me, your face by mine; kiss
me, ma. Now I will go to sleep. O Lord,
bless pa and forgive him, and please, Lord,
take ma with me!" The lady cannot speak for
she knows this is death, and a silent prayer as-
cends to heaven that the wish of her erring
and persecuted child may be gratified.
	When Mrs. S., who had left them, comes
back, they both lay apparently asleep, so calm
and tranquil do they appear. But it is the
sleep from which there is no awakening, until
the angel shall sound the trump, when all will
be judged according to the deeds done in the
body; when the wicked will be sent to everlast-
ing misery and the righteous to eternal life.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				(Continued.)
	President Young and company did not over-
take us till Thursday, the 6th.  Father en-
camped the day before near a spring at the
head of a ravine with some timber near by--
having traveled but thirteen miles in two days
On the second day we were joined by Colonel,


[Column 1]
Kane who, Horace wrote, "had been to Grand
Island, where he received a letter from Presi-
dent Young informing him that the brethren
had given up the idea of moving up that way,
so he thought he would return. There is a
mound in the vicinity, about 1/4 of a mile off,
which Bro. Kimball and Col. Kane have no-
ticed in a short ramble which they took last
evening; and the Col. expressed a desire that
some of the men should take spades in the
morning and see what could be found by exam-
ing it."
	President Young, my father and others rode
ahead on the 6th to make a survey of the coun-
try to see if they could find some good place to
stop, and visited some springs a mile or two
from camp.
	Horace continues; "Some of the boys to-day
dug into the before mentioned mound, where
they found the "skeleton form" of an Indian,
apparently having been buried for some time;
they also found with it quite a quantity of
beads, brass, trinkets, etc., which formerly in
life adorned his person. Col. Kane has care-
fully wrapt up the bones and the cranium,
which he intends taking with him to Philadel-
phia for the inspection of some professional
friend of his, who is versed in the science of
craniology. The boys received $2.00 divided
among them for their services.	*	*	*
Father and mother are gaining rapidly."
	"Friday, 7th.	*	A council was held
to-day in Brother Jedediah Grant's tent - the
result was, that we are to remain where we are,
as a no more commodious place can be found,
and form in a hollow square		*		*
Twelve men chosen by the Council as a
committee to act for and make arrangements
in behalf of the camp, who are to see executed
the order of the Council - make arrangements
for the winter, etc. John Davenport took two
yoke of oxen and went back to the big springs,
our former camping place, after Brother Clay-
ton."
	"Saturday, 8th. Still warm and sultry. To-
day the wagons were arranged as contemplated
in the form of a hollow square - this brought
us further on the hill, and a considerable great-
er distance from water.		*	*	Father
and Bro. Kimball's companies occupy one end
entire of the square - to-day the teams were
engaged in hauling trees to make a bowery the
whole length of our wagons, which we worked
at till past eleven o'clock at night. and nearly
completed it. Trees were also drawn for the
purpose of building a bower in the centre of
the square. They also intend fencing in the
camp so that the cattle cannot get outside.
There was a lamb run over by one of our wagons
while moving to-day, and broke his leg - this
is the second time within a week we have been
indebted to accident for fresh meat."
	Sunday, 9th. Brother Kimball called his
family together to hold a private family meet-
ing, a number of others however attended.
Brother Kimball spoke at some length, and
was followed by father and Jedediah M. Grant.
*	*	The sacrament was administered
and the meeting dismissed. Council meeting
was held and Brigham spoke at some length
concerning the twelve men who were chosen to
form a Church Council, and were to act as city
council, also High Council to the Church. Fa-
ther Cutler was appointed president thereof by
a unanimous vote; Samuel Russell, clerk; and
Horace S. Eldridge, marshal. President
Young named our place "Cutler's Park." The
clerk then read a letter written to President
Polk - vote unanimous for it to be sent - the
expediency of remaining in a large camp was
spoken of as affording less chance for the na-
tives to rob and plunder from us - also the pro-
priety of securing the permission of the Lam-
anite chief before cutting their timber. Col.
Kane is quite sick and moved a little way on-
to the prairie by himself."

[Column 2]
	Monday, 10th.		*	This morning
some of the people constituting this end of the
camp and those immediately belonging to Bro.
Kimball's family were called together for the
purpose of making arrangements about cutting
hay for the winter. The calculations are made
to cut 800 tons, which divided among the
sixty-four men, when counted, made 12 1/2 tons
apiece. There were also estimated 350 head of
cattle, 31 horses and mules, and 48 sheep. To-
day we busied ourselves in completing the
fence on this end of the ground and in finish-
ing the bowery.	*	*	*	Col. Kane
was brought again into camp last evening very
ill indeed; he was taken to Bro. Grant's tent.
*	*	Forty wagons (including Bros. Her-
riman's and Peck's families, who went on to
the Elk Horn some time ago), came up while
here."
	On the 14th some of the brethren went to
cutting and drawing house logs, and one or two
commenced digging a well. In two days they
had dug to the depth of twenty-eight feet with-
out finding water. They also commenced
building a house for the purpose of storing
away provisions and other things, that they
might have the use of the wagons to haul hay
with, etc.
	Horace continues:  "A council of a number
of the Twelve and the authorities of the
Church was held at father's tent this evening
respecting our arrangements for the winter,
etc. Twenty-five men were lately appointed
to stand on guard night and day to keep the
cattle out of the woods, that they may not get
into the pea vines, which we depend upon con-
siderably for our cattle this winter."
	"Wednesday, 12th. Cool and pleasant--
the people collected between this and Brigham's
camp to receive letters from their friends in
the army. Our camp as well as Brigham's is
now completely fenced in."
	He again speaks of Col. Kane's sickness and
of him sending to Fort Leavenworth after a
physician of his acquaintance. On the even-
ing of the 13th he wrote:
	"A meeting was called in the centre of the
square, where captains and foremen were chos-
en for the purpose of superintending the cut-
ting of hay. There were the names of sixteen
companies or parties read over. Bro. K.'s and
father's companies constituting the 1st division
of the whole camp of Israel. A report of the
council was then read by Bro. Grant, request-
ing the people to turn out en masse to-morrow
morning, gather in all their cattle, yoke them,
let them remain in their yokes until further or-
ders, meanwhile furnish them with new cut
grass; also to sharpen their scythes and axes,
and hold themselves in readiness to commence
the work of haying. These orders were car-
ried out the next morning - hunting, yoking
and confining their cattle in yards, etc."	*	*
	"Sunday there were meetings held in the
woods about a mile and a half from camp.
Porter arrived this evening after an absence of
four or five months - ten days from Nauvoo.
He was lately liberated at Galena, no one ap-
pearing against  him to get repaired when
he last left us. Brought also a number of "Ea-
gles" issued July 31st, and letters.		*	*
In the paper is announced the death of its late
editor, Dr. Wm. E. Matlock, of whom the
obituary article speaks in the highest and most
praiseworthy terms."
	"Monday, 17.	*	Myself and three others
engaged in digging the well, but yet no water.
*	*	The physician who was sent for by
Col. Kane arrived from Leavenworth this af-
ternoon in company with Mr. Fleming, who
lives at the village below. The doctor said that
his patient was recovering rapidly. The two
gentlemen came to my tent this evening, when
we sent for Bros. Wm. Pitt, James Hutchinson
and James Smithers, who brought their in-

[Column 3]
struments and entertained us until 11 o'clock
with a variety of charming music. The doc-
tor said it was the best music he had heard in
this country."
	I remember many of the incidents mentioned
above, particularly the musical entertainment
at our tent. The first time we met Col. Kane
was on the 5th of August, just after our wag-
ons were formed in a circle so as to make an
enclosure for horses. The meeting was some-
what peculiar.
	My sister-in-law and I being more than weary
that day with the sun beating down and not a
shade of any kind to screen us from its scorch-
ing rays, we were considerably out of sorts,
and were just giving expression to some of our
thoughts and feelings, in consequence of the
unpleasant circumstances to which we were
subjected, through the heartlessness of those
who were allowed to wrong and oppress the
weak, etc., and wondering when these trials
would cease or where our lots were to be cast,
etc. We were going on in this strain while
washing the dust from our hands and faces
preparatory to getting dinner. But our con-
version came to a sudden stop, for as I went
to the tent door to dash out some water, who
should I see but a young stranger standing in
a listening attitude by the side of his carriage,
which stood hardly a yard away from our tent.
He looked up as I threw out the water, and I
felt my cheeks crimson as our eyes met; and I
made a hasty retreat, wondering who he was
and what we had said that he could take ad-
vantage of, if so disposed. Neither of us were
aware of the Col.'s arrival in camp, and this
young man looked a mere stripling, being deli-
cate in form as well as features. But we soon
learned who he was. He came, as it were, like
an angel of mercy, and one whom the Lord, no
doubt, raised up to act as a mediator in behalf
of a homeless and afflicted people.
	In the trouble of 1858, called the Mormon
Rebellion," but more correctly "Buchanan's
Blunder," Col. Kane appeared again as an
ambassador, though he was then in feeble
health and worn down with travel. At the
conclusion of Governor Young's remarks in
their council, he said, "Friend Thomas, the
Lord sent you here and He will not let you
die - no, you cannot die till your work is done.
I want to have your name live to all eternity.
You have done a great work, and you will do
a greater work still." Afterwards when asked
by Elder Staines why he wished to be intro-
duced as Dr. Osborne, he replied, "My dear
friend, I was once treated so kindly at Winter
Quarters that I am sensitive over its memories.
I knew you to be a good people then, but
since I have heard so many hard things about
you, that I thought I would like to convince
myself whether or not the people possessed the
same humane and hospitable spirit that I found
in them once. I thought, if I go to any of
my great friends of Winter Quarters, they
will treat me as Thomas L. Kane, with a re-
membrance of some services which I may have
rendered them. So I requested to be sent to
some stranger's house as 'Dr. Osborne,' that I
might know how the Mormon people would
treat a stranger at such a moment as this, with-
out knowing whether I might not turn out to
be either an enemy or a spy. And now, Mr.
Staines, I want to know if you could have
treated Thomas L. Kane better than you have
treated Dr. Osborne?"
	"No, Col.," he replied, "I could not." "And
thus, my friend," added Dr. Osborne, "I have
proved that the Mormons will treat the stran-
ger in Salt Lake City, as they once did Thom-
as L. Kane at Winter Quarters."


50	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"The old town of Ipswich, Mass., of which
Gail Hamilton is a native, celebrated its 250th
anniversay of foundation on Aug. 16, and Gail
Hamilton read a poem on that occasion."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 51


[Column 1]
HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

So gently passed the summer by,
And then the autumn tints appeared,
Ere they had noted time and change.
	Then once (as softly as in dreams
The skies are darkened and are cleared)
	Helen discerned, like palest gleams

Of coming dawn, a silent truth;
Aye, she was first to note the guest
That entered in their blessed group;
	And, like a waft of cooler air,
It wrapt her 'round; it thrilled her breast—
	Her heart received and hid it there.

For, as from reverie, she raised
Her eyes in silence to his face,
His own in deepest thought were fixed
	On fair Virginia's as she bent
Above her book. Purity, grace,
	Wrapt her with beauty. She intent

Upon the page, knew not his gaze,
Nor of the eyes that watched them both.
And Helen closed her eyes and thought;
	Ah, new and strange they crowded in;
Conflicting thoughts of sudden growth,
	Each strong the victory to win.

"Oh, hath my heart not borne its share
Of hidden wounds and scars revealed;
What o'erlooked error in my past
	Lies unrepented, unforgiven,
That I must yet in penance yield
	Fresh griefs of heart to answer heaven?

"Can I blame her? Oh, no, her heart
Is yet unconscious; I alone
Have read the future; even he
	Looked on her as one scarce awake
To his thoughts' import; all unknown
	This vine hath taken root, to break

Its tender tendrils from their hold
Were cruelty. If in the past
She hath been worthy of our love
	Who brought her here, with welcome, too,
How can mine be the heart to cast
	Her forth to battle life anew?

"Perchance God led her here and 'tis
His holy message that I meet;
And shall my lips a faith profess
	And yet my strength prove weak and faint?
Father, lead Thou my trembling feet
	Along the path marked for a Saint."

A child's voice called "Virginia," then
The spell was broken, and she went
Out from the room with answ'ring smile.
	Then woke he from his reverie,
"Helen"—his face bore love's content—
	"Dearest of all on earth to me."

She knew he meant the words, and knew
What he had still to learn as well,
That he would love another yet
	With love as fond and just as true;
Within, the Gospel's sacred spell
	His course would shape itself to view.

" 'Tis mine to wait while God unfolds
His purposes as we're prepared,
Nor selfish, coward self must rise
	To thwart or check another's need—
The trials this young girl hath shared
	Justice demands in word and deed."

Thus Helen searched her heart alone,
And winter near and nearer drew.
Then the good Elder wrote to say
	If Helen thought it well, he'd send	
For her fair guest to spend a few
	Months with her missionary friend.

"Was this temptation? Here was chance
To clear her path for once and all."
And while she held the letter still,
	Softly came down the first cold snow;
She watched it hasten, watched it fall,
	And something in her heart said "No,"

"Shall I, when skies are cheerless, cold,
And winds call forth the rising storm,
Send forth like one cast out adrift,
	This frail young girl on this poor plea?
Her place is by my fireside warm,
	Her life lot better here with me."

[Column 2]
She watched him often and she saw
The thoughts that grew within his mind;
She knew his love for her would fain
	Repress the love Virginia woke;
And looking on their boy, defined
	The thought the father never spoke.

So winter passed and spring drew near,
And plainer grew to Helen's eyes
The truth he not e'en yet had named.
	She knew that now Virginia's heart
Had wakened and had recognized
	His love, yet waited, kept apart.


[Column 1]
PATTY SESSIONS.

	The subject of this sketch, who, by the bye,
was one of the early pioneers of this valley,
was horn in Bethel, Oxford County, State of
Maine, February 7th, 1795, and is now there-
fore in her ninetieth year, and in the enjoy-
ment of excellent health, able to wait upon
herself, transact her own business and keep her
own accounts.  In many respects she is a very
remarkable woman.  Her parents were Enoch
Bartlett and Martha Ann Hall; she was the
first born of this marriage, though her father
had quite a number of children by a previous
marriage, the youngest twelve years old when
he brought home a young bride.  His first
wife had been dead three years.  The country
was entirely new, for she tells us when her
mother went home with her husband "they
rode forty miles by a spotted line on horse-
back; forty more where there was only a track,
and took all she had on the same horse."
	Patty, as she was called, learned to work
when very young, not only indoors, but out,
assisting her father, as he had but one son, and
he married and had a family of his own to
care for. The girls too were all well married,
except the youngest, by the time little Patty
was old enough to perform regular duty, and
as there was another young family coming on
there was plenty for all to do.  The older
children were all born in Massachusetts and
moved to Maine, seventy-five miles into the
wilderness.
	Patty was the oldest of nine children, four
sons and five daughters, and at that early day
there were no schools and neither of her parents
could either read or write; they knew their
letters, however, and so taught her the alpha-
bet.  Mr. Bartlett was a shoemaker, and his
wife a weaver, and both worked together, as
was quite common in those times, to make a
home and raise a family.  The first school Miss
Patty attended was kept in her father's shop,
and "the schoolmistress carried her in her arms
to school," shere she soon learned to read, and
being naturally bright, and, as the Yankees
term it, "smart," she soon acquired what was
in those days considered quite sufficient for
girls to know.
	Although Miss Patty had been a very obe-
dient, hard-working girl, and had listened at-
tentively to the instructions of her parents; was
honest, industrious, thrifty and economical, yet
she had a will of her own, as she manifested
when she fell in love and her parents disap-
proved of her choice.  She persisted in marry-
ing, much against their will; though they de-
clared if she did they would never give her
anything, and they were as good as their word
for they never gave her anything at all, al-
though, she says, "they gave their other child-
ren a good fit out." Yet in this instance, as in
many of a similar kind, it proved that years
afterwards, before her father died he confessed
her husband was the one he thought most of,
and said, "O Patty, you made a good choice,
better than I should have made for you."
	Patty Bartlett was married June 28, 1812,
to David Sessions, and went with him to his
father's, ten miles away, to a place called Ketch-
am.  Her husband's mother was a very fee-
ble woman, could scarcely walk a step without

[Column 2]
help, and it devolved upon her son's wife to
wait upon her, they lived in the fathers family
until the spring, the young wife making the house
and the husband worked with his father on the
farm and earned a cow and some cotton.  Mr.
Sessions made some trays to put milk in, the
wife made butter and sold to buy a pail to milk
in; the cotton she spun and made a bed tick
and some sheets; picked cat-tails and filled the
tick, so the young folks had a bed of their own.
Those were very primitive times, and it was not
an unusual thing for young people to marry
without household goods.  Mr. Sessions had
energy and ambition and took up land, put in
a crop and very soon built a house.
	"In the Spring we moved into our own
house," Mrs. Sessions in her journal says. "An
old acquaintance of mine told me she was go-
ing back to where she came from and wanted
me to buy her loom for four dollars.  Mr. Ses-
sions earned the money and purchased the
loom, and I soon had all the weaving I could
do fetched to me from ten to twelve miles."
Mrs. Sessions obtained quite a reputation as a
weaver both for good work and promptitude;
her work was always ready for her patrons at
the time specified.
	Shortly after Mrs. Sessions was married an
incident occurred which, as it had a bearing
upon her whole life, it seems proper to relate
here.  They lived ten miles in the woods and
were not near any physician.  One day a young
woman was taken suddenly ill, and sent for
Mother Sessions, who was in the habit of at-
tending obstetrical cases in the vicinity; she
was very feeble and had to be led, and before
she had time to go any distance, another mes-
senger came telling the young Mrs. Sessions to
run as quickly as she possibly could.  She hur-
ried on with all speed and when she arrived it
was thought the young woman was dying; Mrs.
Sessions, who was entirely unskilled in affairs
of the kind, but had abundant nerve force and
moral courage, took the child and put the mo-
ther in bed before Mother Sessions arrived; the
old lady showed her how to dress the baby,
which after doing she started homeward.  A
short time afterwards the doctor and some oth-
er help came, but all was over.  The doctor ex-
amined the mother and child to see that all
was right, and finding everything in a good
condition, he was anxious to see the young and
inexperienced woman who had so skillfully
performed the work.  The doctor called upon
her and congratulated her upon her ability,
and told her she must attend to that business,
not to have any fear, for she would prosper in
it, as it was a new country and there were many
about to move in, it would be neceseary to have
more help of this kind.  About four months
after she attended another young woman in her
confinement, and from that time she has fol-
lowed the profession of a midwife until within
a very recent date, when she felt that at her
age she was no longer to be depended upon.
	But to return to the story of the newly mar-
ried young people located in the backwoods of
Maine.  After they moved into their new house
Mr. Sessions began to build a large barn and
everything prospered with them.  The spring
following they made three or four cwt. of sugar,
which brought in money, so that they began to
be comfortable and contented.
	June the 15th, 1814, their first child was
born; they called him Peregrine; that year the
barn was finished.  However, wishing, I sup-
pose, to improve their circumstances or seek a
better locality, or both, the young people re-
moved to a place called Andover Surplus on
Bear River; the conveniences were not very
great, for Mrs. Sessions in her journal says, "we
moved into an old cabin where they had made
salt, and lived there until we built a new house,
which we moved into in the night, lest the old,
rickety cabin should fall down upon us."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly,  Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers,
	Exponent Office, in brick bulding north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent,
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1884.


MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On Sunday, August 24th, as per previous an-
nouncement, memorial services were held in
the large Tabernacle in this city at the same
time that funeral rites were being performed for
the martyred Elders in Paradise and Kanarra,
whither the bodies had been taken to the re-
spective homes of the victims of the terrible
massacre, that took place August 10th, in Ten-
nessee. There was a vast congregation, and the
seats on the platform, occupied by the Priest-
hood, were well filled. The upper stand was oc-
cupied by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest. W.
Woodruff and Patriarch John Smith. In the
next stand were the Presidency of this stake
and some of the Apostles; the next well filled
with Seventies, and at each end of the stand
were most exquisite floral emblems. The gates
ajar in most lovely white flowers with a real
white dove over the top of the gates. The other
was a broken column of magnificent white
flowers, artistically arranged, and symbolizing
the broken life in a most effective manner.
	On the communion table in front of the Bis-
hops who were administering the sacrament a
most unique design in florals. A band of purple
flowers, on which was wrought the initials of the
martyrs in white pansies; in the center was a
crystalized white cross, from the four corners
rose aloft four date palm branches, gracefully
bending and uniting in the center, on which
rested a crown of immortelles. Surrounding
the base of this significent emblem was a wide
band of carnations, and attached to the design
was the inscription, "Tribute to the memory of
the late lamented martyrs, Elders William S.
Berry and John H. Gibbs, who were slain for
the testimony of Jesus Christ, at Condor's Farm,
Lewis County, Tennessee, Sunday, August 10,
1834."
	The services opened with the hymn by the
choir, "Creation speaks with awful voice."
Prayer by Coun. D. H. Wells. Choir sang,
"Sleep thy last sleep."
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, his remarks were rendered in the spirit
of meekness and wisdom; he referred touching-
ly to the mission of the Gospel, peace on earth
good will toward men.
	President A. M. Cannon made some very
pointed and suggestive remarks in regard to the
mournful occasion now being-commemorated.
	Elder John Morgan spoke next, alluding more
definitely to the circumstances of the occurance
than those who had preceeded him.
	The choir sang "The Resurrection Hymn."
	President Woodruff occupied a few moments
in expressing his feelings on the subject, and his
words seemed seasoned with the grace of the
Holy Spirit.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, Elder T. B. Lewis and


Counselor C. W. Penrose, each occupied a few
minutes, speaking in a very impressive manner
upon the themes of the Gospel, its teachings,
and the results in all ages of the world.
   The choir sang, “Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Apostle B. Young.


SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH.
HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				______

	This is a charitable Society, and according to
your natures; it is natural for females to have
feelings of charity and benevolence.  You are
now placed in a situation in which you can act
according to these sympathies which God has
planted in your bosoms.  If you live up to these
principles, how great and glorious will be your
reward in the celestial kingdom!  If you live up
to your privileges, the angels cannot be re-
strained from being your associates.  Females,
if they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God; for what is more pleasing
to God than innocence?  You must be innocent,
or you cannot come up before God; if we would
come before God, we must keep ourselves pure,
as He is pure.  The devil has great power to de-
ceive; he will so transform things as to make
one gape at those who are doing the will of God.
You need not be teasing your husbands because
of their deeds, but let the weight of your inno-
cence, kindness and affection be felt, which is
more mighty than a millstone hung around the
neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or
dispute, but meekness, love, purity—-these are
the things that should magnify you in the eyes
of all good men.  Sin must be brought to
light, iniquity must be purged out from the midst
of the Saints; then the veil will be rent, and
the blessings of heaven will flow down—they
will roll down like the Mississippi river.
 If this Society listen to the counsel of the Al-
mighty, through the heads of the Church, they
shall have power to command queens in their
midst.  I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the in-
habitants of this State, with the people of the
surrounding country, will turn unto the Lord
with all their hearts, ten years will not roll
round before the kings and queens of the earth
will come unto Zion, and pay their respects to
the leaders of this people; they shall come with
their millions, and shall contribute of their
abundance for the relief of the poor, and the
building up and beautifying of Zion.  After this
instruction, you will be responsible for your own
sins; it is a desirable honor that you should so
walk before our Heavenly Father as to save
yourselves; we are all responsible to God for the
manner we improve the light and wisdom given
by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves.
“President Smith continued reading from the
above mentioned chapter, and to give instruc-
tions respecting the order of God, as established
in the Church, saying every one should aspire
only to magnify his own office and calling.  He
then commenced reading the 13th chapter-
"Though I speak with the tongues of men and
angels, and have not charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal;” and said,
don’t be limited in your views with regard to
your neighbor's virtues, but beware of self-
righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of
your own virtues, and not think yourselves more
righteous than others; you must enlarge your
souls towards each other, if you would do like
Jesus, and carry your fellow-creatures to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  He said he had manifested long-
suffering and forbearance and patience towards
the Church, and also to his enemies; we must
bear with each other’s failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
He then read the second verse—“Though I
have the gift of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I
have all faith,so that I could remove mountains,
and have not charity, I am nothing.” He then
said, though a man should become mighty, do
great things, overturn mountains, perform
mighty works, and should then turn from his
high station to do evil, to cat and drink with the
drunken, all his former deeds would not save
him, but he would go to destruction!  As you
increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase
in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long-suf-
fering, and bear with, the faults and errors of
mankind.
 How precious are the souls of men!  The fe-
male part of the community are apt to be con-
tracted in their views.  You must not be con-
tracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this Society teach women how to behave
toward their husbands, to treat them with mild-
ness and affection.  When a man is borne down
with trouble, when he is perplexed with care
and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of
an argument or murmur—if he can meet with
mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe
his feelings; when the mind is going to despair,
it needs a solace of affection and kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the order
of the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed to lead,
guide and direct the affairs of the Church in
this last dispensation; and I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and
this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and in-
telligence shall flow down from this time hence-
forth; this is the beginning of better days to the
poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice
and pour forth blessings on your heads.
	When you go home, never give a cross or un-
kind word to your husbands, but let kindness,
charity and love crown your works henceforth
don’t envy the finery and fleeting show of sin-
ners, for they are in a miserable situation; but
as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a
short time God will destroy them, if they will
not repent and turn unto Him.  Let your la-
bors be mostly confined to those around, in the
circle of your own acquaintance, as far as knowl-
edge is concerned, it may extend to all the
world; but your administrations should be con-
fined to the circle of your immediate acquaint-
ance, and more especially to the members of the
Relief Society.  Those ordained to preside over
and lead, are authorized to appoint the different
officers, as the circumstances shall require.
If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in
your own tongue; do not indulge too much in
the exercise of the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage of the innocent and unwary.
You may speak in tongues for your own comfort,
but I lay this down for a rule, that if anything
is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be
received for doctrine.  President Smith then
gave instructions respecting the propriety of fe-
males administering to the sick by the prayer
of faith, the laying on of hands, or the anoint-
ing with oil; and said it was according to revela-
tion that the sick should be nursed with herbs
and mild food, and not by the hand of an enemy.
Who are better qualified to administer than our
faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full
of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion?
No one.  Said he was never placed in similar
circumstances before, and never had given the
same instruction; and closed his instructions by
expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improving
this opportunity.
 The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a
very powerful manner, never to be forgotton by
those present on this interesting occasion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 53


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I trust you will pardon my presumption in ad-
dressing you, with whom I have not the pleasure
of the slightest acquaintance, but I feel as
though the principles of our holy religion, which
we have espoused, bring us near and make us
one in Christ Jesus.
	As I am getting old and feeble I cannot ex-
pect to remain very long in this probation, and
I feel anxious to bear my testimony to the truth
of the everlasting Gospel, as we have received
it in these last days.
	My age is seventy-four—a period in life when
many, very many of our aged brethren and sis-
ters are leaving us; but few now survive with
whom I was early associated in this Kingdom.
I will mention the honored names of a few sis-
ters who now remain. Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phoebe Woodruff,
and a few others.
	I joined this Church late in the fall of 1831. I
was then in Vermont visiting some sisters and
other relatives who lived there—myself and sis-
ters and their husbands joined the Church, and
the next season we went home to Connecticut,
New Haven Co., taking along with us Orson
Pratt and Lyman E. Johnson. They preached
the fulness of the Gospel there, and baptized
nearly all my father's family. This is some
fifty three years ago, during which time I have
never doubted the truth of this work for a mo-
ment, my experience in this cause having fur-
nished me with many living testimonies to the
truth.
	I went to Kirtland in the summer of 37, was
there when the Temple was finished and dedi-
cated, and became intimately acquainted with
all the Smith family, who were all very kind to
me. I am quite sure a better family never lived
on earth. I know that Joseph Smith was an in-
spired prophet of God, as I was personally ac-
quainted with him and often listened to his di-
vine teachings.
	In the summer of 1835 I was married to the
late Harrison Burgess, with whom I lived forty-
eight years, but he, too, is gone, and I am now,
as it were, left alone. My husband took a second
wife in 1846, by whom he had eleven children,
all living but three, and all have families. We
lived in friendship and love, each one striving to
do our part to fulfill the sacred obligations we
were under to each other in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. As our family increased it
was always my pleasure to receive each one as
they came into our family circle and to do all in
my power for their comfort.
	It has fallen to my lot to survive my husband
and his other wife, as she died a few months be-
fore he passed away. This sudden bereavement
has left me very lonely, as I have no children of
my own on whom to lean for comfort and sup-
port in my declining years; but I hope soon to
join them in a better world than this. I hope
and trust I have not lived quite in vain, as I
have had the privilege of doing the work for
many of my kindred dead. In this I rejoice ex-
ceedingly.
	I am a firm believer in the principle of plural-
ity of wives, or celestial marriage, as it has been
revealed to us in these last days through the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the testimony
and practice of it by the ancient people of God
in former times. It is a principle in which I re-
joice more than in any other which has been re-
vealed from the heavens, and it has ever been a
wonder to me how people can despise and hate a
principle fraught with so much comfort and
happiness, as this surely must be, to those who
have had to lay their loved ones in the cold and

[Column 2]
silent grave. How cheering, then, to know that
through the sealing power of the holy Priest-
hood our union can be made eternal, and we can
have and enjoy each other's society beyond the
grave. Perhaps I should never have been as
firm a believer in these things as I am if it had
not been shown to me by the spirit and power
of God at an early day, of which I will bear my
testimony:
	I was somewhat troubled in my mind, and as
I was pondering this doctrine, the Spirit of God
rested down upon me and a visible change
seemed to pass over my whole system. My
mind became enlightened so that I could see
and comprehend the principles of eternity, and
in this way I was enabled to see and understand
the sacred and holy principle of sealing, or in
other words, the new and everlasting covenant,
in which I have ever since rejoiced. I have not
language to describe the purity, beauty and
glory which I then saw in every feature of it. I
have ever since looked upon it as one of the
grand pillars on which the salvation and exalta-
tion of the sons and daughters of Adam is rest-
ing, and I would here say to the young and ris-
ing generation, beware how you treat this sub-
ject, lightly or with contempt, as I think it
never fails to bring a punishment on all such
who indulge in it.
	We have a Relief Society, also the Mutual Im-
provement and Primary Associations, in our
little town, all endeavoring to act a good part in
this kingdom. I myself am trying to be faith-
ful in all things, that I may finish up the bal-
ance of my days with honor to myself and the
cause in which I am engaged.
	Wishing you and your valuable paper success
and prosperity, I am,
		Truly your friend and sister,
					SOPHIA M. BURGESS.
	Pine Valley, Washington Co., August 8, 1884.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM LAIE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking some of your readers might be in-
terested in a brief sketch of our recent trip to
the volcano of Kelauea, it is with a degree of
pleasure that I take my pen to write you a few
lines: it is also with a degree of timidity, realiz-
ing that while I have an abundance of material
from which to write an interesting communica-
tion, my descriptive powers are unequal to the
self-imposed task, and will fail, I fear, to give
your readers any idea of the wonders and grand-
eur of a sight of this world-renowned volcano.
	Sister Young and myself left Laie with Presi-
dent Partridge on the morning of the 5th of
July, Saturday, for Honolulu, and were there
met by Brother M. B. Young, who had come
from Kauai to go with us; we met with the
Saints of the Honolulu Branch Sunday morn-
ing and with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
It was our expectation to sail on Tuesday, but
learned on Monday that time of the vessel's sail
ing had been changed, and it would sail that
afternoon at four, the usual hour, so we made a
few hasty preparatians and were ready at the
time appointed. For myself, I went on board
with a feeling of fear and an awful dread of
sickness, not knowing that I would be able to
stand the trip, not having been in the best of
health lately, and it has always been considered
a hard journey for ladies to undertake, but my
very great desire to see this wonder of nature
overcame my fears and induced me to make
the trial. Were it not for the sea-sickness, the
traveling by water would be most enjoyable, as
the vessel sails close to the shore of the different
Islands, one can enjoy the beautiful scenes and
many places of historical interest are pointed
out as we sail along; but we were not out of

[Column 2]
sight of the Island of Oahu, before beautiful
scenery lost its charms and history its interest
for me, and I was obliged to call for a mattress
and retire for the night; still, I was only comfort-
ably sick, as President Partridge calls if, not
nearly so bad as I had been before.
	When morning came the sea was very rough,
and the steward was obliged to delay breakfast
until the sea quieted down a little. The vessel
was now sailing close by the Island of Hawaii
on the Kona side, and we were much interested
in the different landings with the scraps of his-
tory we could get. The first place at which we
stopped was Kailua; at this little place the first
Calvanistic missionaries landed in the year 1820,
President Partridge's aunt and her husband be-
ing among the number. An old stone church
stands on an eminence near the beach, probably
the first one built on the Islands. An old mis-
sion house stands near the church, also a resi-
dence belonging to Queen Emma. On this side
of the Island the mountains slope from the sea-
shore, the whole surface of the country showing
plainly the effects of the work of the volcano.
Up in the very tops of the mountains houses
were built, and occasionally on the mountain
sides; and on looking at the scattered houses I
thought of the travels of the Elders going
around from place to place hunting the people
out from the tops of the mountains and the
rough places, and trying to awaken in their dull
minds an interest in something pertaining to
their spiritual welfare.
	Wednesday morning found us at Punaluu.
Here our voyage on the sea was to end for the
present, and we were thankful enough to step
on land again. By previous arrangement we
were to meet two of the Elders at this place,
Bro F. M. Marchent and V. R. Miller, with
horses for us to ride up to Makaka, a place about
three miles distant; but being one day sooner
than we expected they failed to meet us. We
had some difficulty in finding the place, but fin-
ally succeeded in doing so, and found the broth-
ren at the house of a native, counselor to the
president of the branch. We were hospitably re-
ceived and treated with great kindness and re-
spect. Horses were procured for us and we
started for the volcano at three next morning,
Brothers Marchent and Miller accompanying
us. We enjoyed our ride on land much better
than on the water, and the light of the volcano
seen at a distance increased our anxiety to get
there as soon as possible. We rode along some
ten or twelve miles over grassy hills with trees
and shrubs growing thriftily; then we came to
the lava bed, and were obliged to travel more
slowly, and we began to realize that we were in
the vicinity of a volcano, although we had yet
ten or twelve miles to go. The remainder of
our ride was over the roughest of roads, where
the lava had flowed and cooled in every conceiv-
able shape and form, our horses being obliged to
pick their way carefully. Still the road is a very
good one for that country, much better than we
expected to find.
	A few minutes past twelve we came in sight
of the volcano house and the volcano. As we
neared the house steam and smoke could be
seen issuing from cracks and holes in the ground,
and it was a wild looking place indeed, with the
smoking, blackened mounds two or three miles
away, and while viewing this scene it seemed
almost as if I had wandered away from this
earth, where desolation and the powers
of destruction reign supreme. One thing,
and one only, met our view which ap-
peared fresh and homelike, this was a hedge
of rosebushes, full of lovely, sweet-scented
roses, reminding us of early days at home,
where the fragrant wild roses grew in abun-
dance and beauty. We were soon seated


[Column 1]
by the fire taking the rest we were so much
in need of, as we had a walk of five or six
miles before us.
	After an early dinner the guide informed us
that he was ready to accompany us, and we were
immediately on hand, feeling quite fresh, and
started out in high spirits. The first half mile we
go down a pall or very steep hill into the crater,
the sides being covered with a heavy growth of
grasses and beautifully seeded ferns. Nearly at
the foot of this hill we came suddenly upon a
lone tombstone, which our guide informed us
marked the grave of a young man who went
down to the lake, and being in poor health,
dropped dead at this place when return-
ing. Across the bottom of the crater we
walked about three miles, crossing lava
that had been thrown up about three
weeks prevous to our visit, and from the
crevices of which the hot gas and sulphurous
steam and smoke was still rising. We first visi-
ted the old lake called Halemaumau, which was
not very active, and only spouted up in places,
occasionally throwing the lava several feet into
the air and again dying down. There was a look
of disappointment plainly visible on the faces of
some of our party. After watching this for
a short time the guide proposed taking us to the
"New Lake." We readily consented, following
carefully as he led the way, sometimes over
deep cracks, from which puffs of hot air would
come up into our faces, nearly choking us, while
the rocks felt uncomfortably warm to our feet;
but we followed our guide closely, occasionally
casting anxious glances towards him and hardly
able to suppress a slight scream, as our feet would
break through the thin outer crust and sink
several inches into the cinders beneath. At one
place the gases were so strong that it was im-
possible to breathe freely, and we hurried along
feeling as though we would suffocate before we
could draw a free breath, and were just in time
to hear the guide advise us not to walk too close-
ly together as it was a recent flow over which
we were passing, and pointed to a hole several
feet deep where some tourists had broken
through the day before.
	When we reached the New Lake it was throw-
ing up the molten lava in three or four places,
and its activity seemed to increase. We stood
in almost speechless amazement feasting our
eyes on the sublime spectacle before us. Forgot-
ten were our blistered feet, our weary and ach-
ing limbs, every other feeling being swallowed
up in admiration and wonder. Our speech soon
returned, however, and I remember Sister
Young catching me by the arm and exclaiming,
"Oh! look there, Sister Partridge." And at the
same time I was trying to direct her attention
to some grand display on the other side of the
lake, and so it was with all, each with his or her
gaze fixed on some particular point of interest.
	I wish it were in my power to describe one
tenth part of what we saw; could I do this I
think your readers would be repaid for following
my tiresome account of our little journey.
	As we looked over the lake sometimes it ap-
peared perfectly smooth and black, and then we
would be startled by a jet of flame shooting high
up in the air. This lava is a very peculiar color,
being something the color of blood, with a de-
cided tinge of orange in it, and thickish looking
at times. Lines of fire will be seen running
in every direction over the black surface like
flashes of vivid lightning; these will remain a
few minutes, perhaps, during which time a con-
tinual rising and falling of the liquid lava under
the crust is visible, making the lines of fire
wider and wider, until all is broken up. The
black blocks of cooled lava will be raised up at
one side or corner until they are tipped over into
the boiling lava underneath, and are greedily de

[Column 2]
voured by the fiery elements, and melted again.
At the same time other places will be foaming
and fretting, hissing and blubbering, throwing
the fiery spray high into the air, until you begin
to wonder whether you are at a safe distance or
not. In another part, not far from where we
stood, was a circle of blaze perhaps twenty yards
in circumference, while in the center the crust
was black and hard; and thus it continues,never
appearing twice alike. We were favored with
one view more grandly sublime than all the rest.
While the different changes were taking place
the whole mass seemed to be stirred up from be-
neath, bursting all bound foamed up, spread and
ran in every direction one seething, throbbing
mass of boiling lava, looking for a few minutes
as if it would rise above the banks and flow over;
but after this grand convulsion it gradually set-
tled down again, its surface becoming black as
before.
	Our guide now reminded us that it was past
eight o'clock, and would probably be twelve be-
fore we would again reach the house, thinking,
I suppose, that we would travel more slowly
going back than we did on coming down; but in
this he was mistaken, for although we were loth
to leave so grand a sight, and looked back many
times, and by the flashes of light we saw, im-
agined what a grand display of fireworks was
going on at the lakes, with none to witness the
display, yet we thought somewhat anxiously of
the morrow, and wondered how we would feel
in the morning after such a short night's rest.
We were not slow in retracing our steps until
we came to the Pall; this was the hardest tug
of all, but we succeeded in reaching the house
by half past nine o’clock, and were soon shiver-
ing in bed, but after getting warm slept com-
fortably until five in the morning,when we were
aroused from our slumbers to prepare for an-
other hard day's journey, a ride of twenty-five
miles on horseback. Much depended on our
getting an early start, but the host could not be
prevailed upon to give us breakfast earlier than
six, but we had everything in readiness so that
we could start as soon as breakfast was over, and
half past six found us on our horses and bidding
good bye forever to the volcano and its surround-
ings. Our horses were shivering with cold, and
looked as if they had been poorly fed. The rays
of the rising sun were welcomed by all as they
tinged with golden hues the lofty summit of
Mauna Loa, and caused to glisten the snow cap-
ped peak of Mauna Kea in the distance, which
rises to a height of 13,805 feet, Mauna Loa be-
ing but little inferior, being 13,600 feet above
the sea.
	We stopped at the house of our native friends
a couple of hours for rest and dinner. After
taking leave of Bro. Marchent and the natives,
Bro. Miller going with us to return the horses,
we started for the beach, and only arrived in
time as the last boat was just ready to push off.
	The sea was fearfully rough, the breakers
coming with such force as to shake the platform
upon which we were standing,and sounding like
the report of a cannon as they dashed against
the rock. One boat came very near being
swamped, and it certainly did look dangerous,
but we breathed a silent prayer for protection to
Him who holds the winds and waves in the
hollow of His hand, and stepped into the little
boat without fear, and were conveyed on board
the steamer.
	On our way back we stopped at Wailuku, on
the Island of Maui, and spent a few days very
pleasantly with our sister Kapukini, meeting
with the Relief Society of the place of which
she is the President. We left Maui Saturday
19th, and arrived safely at Honolulu the same
day; left Honolulu for Laie Tuesday; arrived the
same day well satisfied with our journey.

[Column 3]
	Praying that the blessing of heaven may at-
tend you and all those who are laboring for the
cause of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
							S. L. PARTRIDGE.


54	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.

	The ladies simi-monthy meeting was held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms on
Saturday, August 23rd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. After singing
prayer was offered by Mrs. S. S. Young, and after
singing again the minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved, and also minutes
of the Primary Associations from the 16th, 11th,
21st and 12th Wards.
	Mrs. Horne expressed her gratitude and pleas-
ure to be able to meet with the sisters once more,
regretted there were no minutes from the Y. L.-
M. I. A. Said since meeting with the sisters
she had been traveling in the settlements, and
had attended a great number of meetings; had
been to Fish Lake to the conference of Y. M. M.
I. A. President Woodruff was there, and, to
her astonishment, gave out an appointment for
herself and Sister Richards to hold meeting.
She then referred to the massacre of the Elders
in Tennessee, and exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence; spoke upon the political
situation of the country, and so on.
	Mrs. P. Woodruff was the next speaker; she
also alluded to the persecution the Elders had to
endure who went forth to preach the Gospel,
and the sorrow in the families of those who had
been recently shot in Tennessee, and to the
eventful times in which we live. Earnestly en-
treated all to prepare themselves to enter into
Temples and do the work for the dead; said it
was fifty years this month since she joined the
Church, and referred to some of the events of
that early time; told the sisters she was going
away for a little while to visit relatives in the
east, but would not forget them, and trusted
they would remember her, she hoped to return
in safety.
	Sister H. T. King made a few eloquent re-
marks upon the scenery and places she had visi-
ted in Idaho since she last met with the sisters,
and gave an account of the meetings held there,
of the good feeling among the people, and the
prosperity which had attended their labors in
that remote part of the country. She spoke of
her having been in this valley thirty years, and
had never called in a physician. Dwelt consider-
ably upon the gift of healing the sick by faith,
and said many other good things.
	Dr. Barney said while sitting there the whis-
perings of the Spirit to her were, "Who is on
the Lord’s side, who? Referred to the remarks
of Mrs. Horne to the children upon obedience,
and said the mothers should inculcate faith in
the children; spoke of the gifts of the Gospel,
and said many other good things
	Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Young each spoke a few minutes, and then Mrs.
Horne put the following motion to the meeting:
That the sisters commission Sister Woodruff to
act as a representative of the women of Utah
whereever she may go, to speak in their behalf
and teach the principles of their religion, and ex-
pound doctrine to the people of the world as she
may have opportunity. The vote was unani-
mous. Singing, "May the grace of God our
Savior," Benediction by Mrs. Phebe Woodruff.


"A Woman's Rights Association has just
been formed in Christiana, the capital of Nor-
way. Its programme is to claim for the wom-
en all human rights in general. For married
women, property rights; equal wages for equal
work with men, and the ballot."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 55


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		MILLARD STAKE
	The Presidencies of R. S., Y. L. M. and P.
A., in connection with Sisters Horne, Taylor
and Felt, with whom previous arrangements
had been made, effected a visit through Mil-
lard Stake in the interest of the above associa-
tions.
	Sister Horne and company arrived at Leam-
ington June 11th at 2 p.m.; were welcomed by
President Elizabeth Yates, Counselor Lorinda
Thompson, and the good people of Leaming-
ton. Met with the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. I. A. at 4 p.m., which was well attended.
	The following morning Sister Felt met with
the children and organized them into a Pri-
mary Association. They then proceeded to
Oak Creek, where they were joined by Coun-
selor Martha J. Robison, E. R. Robison, Stake
President of Y. L. M. I. A., C. Henry, Secre-
tary, and D. Olsen, Stake President of Pri-
mary Association. The Relief Society and Y.
L. convened at 4 p.m. A spirit of union pre-
vailed; although apparently strangers, all felt
the congenial influence characteristic of the
true Latter-day Saint. The Primary held
meeting at 10 a.m. the following morning,
showing results of good training and able man-
agement.
	At close of meeting, our conveyance being
in waiting, we were soon en route for Desert,
a distance of eighteen miles. The diversified
country, covered with flowers and shrubbery,
somewhat lessened the distance, and in due
time we reached Deseret. The citizens were
laboring under considerable excitement secur-
ing the dam, which loss would insure a failure
of crops, also thousands of dollars already ex-
pended; notwithstanding the unpleasantness of
the occasion, we were welcomed by the warm-
hearted people.
	By previous appointment the Relief Society
convened at 10 a.m., Primary Association at 2
p.m., Y. L. at 4. A full house and a very ex-
cellent and enjoyable time ensued. The Spirit
of God, as many testified, was manifested, the
children performing their part with zest and
good will,  which was truly gratifying. To
meet appointments we were en route at 8 a.m.
the following morning for Kanosh, a distance
of fifty-five miles. The good roads, pleasant
weather and extensive scenery, greatly relieved
the monotonous and tiresome journey. Passing
through Holden, Fillmore and Meadow, ar-
rived at Kanosh at early even. The same fa-
miliar greeting was accorded. The following
day three meetings were held, which were
largely attended, each organization being well
represented, showing a feeling of unity exist-
ing among the people; much valuable instruc-
tion imparted by the sisters. Next morning
returned to Meadow, meeting a similar wel-
come; held three meetings as before, each or-
ganization being well sustained with compe-
tent officers; the instructions were excellent.
After the close of meeting we traveled eight
miles; reached Fillmore at 8 p.m. According
to appointment three meetings were held the
following day successively, Relief Society at 10
a.m., Primary at 2 p.m. and Y. L. 4 p.m.
	The President, L. Robison, of the Y.L. hav-
ing resigned on account of poor health, Sisters
E.S. Taylor and B. A. Robison effected a re-
organization. Meeting was largely attended,
and much of the Spirit of the Lord was felt.
	Sister Horne spoke very plainly upon the
principles of the Gospel; the position of women,
expounding Scripture to verify her remarks.
	Sisters Taylor, Felt and Yates and others
followed in the same humble, instructive way,
that sent a warmth to the heart of every true
Latter-day Saint present and a resolve to en-
deavor to seek more diligently the Kingdom of
God.
	Next morning proceeded to Holden; held
three meetings in their order; each organiza-
tion manifesting an active, lively interest, and
sustained by efficient officers.
	Left Holden the following morning for
Scipio, a distance of fifteen miles. Meetings
held as previously appointed, a good represen-
tation of each association being present; in-
structions filled with the Spirit of God sent
comfort and rejoicing to the hearts of the lis-
teners.
	The tour of the Stake being completed, Sis-
ters Horne, Taylor and Felt took their depar-
ture the following morning for Juab. Many
thanks, dear Sisters, for freely devoting time
to preform so arduous a task. The good re-
sults will long be felt, for no missionary labor
has ever been more effective of good; a bright
future is the recompense, for their works will
follow after.
	Much credit is due also to the Prest. of the
Stake and the Bishops of the various wards for
so kindly assisting us in the discharge of our
duties.
		ELIZABETH YATES, President,
		DELILAH K. OLSEN, Secretary.
	Statistical and financial report given at our
last conference is as follows:
	Officers, 116; Members, 527; Meetings held,
71; Average attendance, 153; WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, 44.
	On hand at date of last report, Cash, $225.-
61; Property, $2696.04; Wheat, 1295 3/4 bushels;
Received, cash $198.85; Property $67.91 1/2;
Wheat, 112 3/4 bushels; Disbursed cash 38.82 1/2;
Property, 12.35; Emigration cash, $6.05; Tem-
ple cash, $8.75; Deseret Hospital, $12.00;
Home industries, $35.45; Property, $24.00;
Missionaries, $8.50; Building, $82.85; Property,
$12.50. On hand, Cash, $187.73; Property,
$2663.73 1/2; Wheat, 1373,5-60 bushels.

		SANPETE STAKE.
	Quarterly Conference of the R. S., Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary held at Gunnison, Prest. M.
A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;Prayer by Bishop Bartholomew.
Singing, “Sweet is the work." Minutes and
reports read and approved.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson said that in listen-
ing to the reports, it showed that we were a
united people, and it was our duty to do all we
could for the upbuilding of the kingdom of
God.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde felt thankful in meet-
ing again in conference. It was one year ago
since she was in the Hospital and the surgeons
gave her no encouragement whatever, but she
trusted in a higher power, and was now able to
walk without aid. Rejoiced in hearing the
good counsel given to-day; hoped all would ob-
serve family prayer, for it was our soul's salva-
tion.
	Sister Rebecca Wareham spoke on silk cul-
ture; thought Utah would yet be a great silk
growing country. Advised the sisters to perse-
vere and not feel like giving it up. Asked the
blessing of heaven to rest upon each and every
one, and upon our children. Felt that heaven
would be incomplete without them. Felt
thankful when Sister Hyde was speaking to see
her so well again, for she has so much faith in
the power of God, etc.
	Verbal reports were given by the presidents
of their respective wards. Singing, prayer,
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	2 p.m. Opening exercises as usual. Sister
Jane C. Snow said that at the time of Joseph
Smith's martyrdom in Nauvoo she was follow-
ing behind a team. There was thunder and
lightning and intense darkness, and all nature
groaned, for he was a true Prophet of God.
	Bishop Madsen spoke with much kindness to
the sisters.
	Brother Schofield of Spring City said the

[Column 3]

sisters were nurses unto the sick,and wished he
could say doctors as well, instead of sending
for some professed doctor to administer deadly
poison unto them. Prayed the blessings of
God to rest upon the sisters and all those who
have the welfare of Zion at heart.
	Singing by the Congregation, "The Spirit of
God." Benediction. Conference adjourned to
meet at Fountain Green, September 12th and
13th, 1884.
			MARY HYDE, Secretary,
		NORA ROBINSON, Asst. Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE

ALMO, Cassia Co., Idaho.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have a few words to say about this remote
region where I am staying for a short time that
I wish to appear in the columns of our little
paper, the EXPONENT. First, it is a wild but
beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the
very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and
invigorating, even in these dog days! The in-
habitants are so widely separated, that nothing
but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;
and I feel many could endure a close approxi-
mation and association and retain all their
good feelings, for the very spirit of the place
breathes of peace and good will. Freedom and
liberty reign supreme; God and conscience be-
ing the "powers that be."
	Sunday, August 3rd, 1884, a large meeting
was held in the new school house, Bishop B.
Haight, and Bros. Martindale and Grant being
on the stand, also the President, Bro. Durfee, and
Thos. O. King. There was excellent speaking
and teaching and it was mooted that a Sunday
School and Relief Society should be organized.
Names were presented for nomination, and 5
o'clock was named for re-assembling. During
recess 19 persons were baptized, and a large as-
sembly again convened at 5 o'clock, according
to appointment. Meeting opened with prayer
by Thos. O. King, speaking by the brethren on
the stand, then confirmation of the newly bap-
tized, followed by ordaining those selected to
officiate in the Sunday School, and setting the
sisters apart for their offices in the Relief So-
ciety. A sweet, humble and peaceful spirit
presided over all throughout the ceremonies.
	The Bishop then addressed the meeting in a
few words and called on some to express their
feelings; he was responded to by Bro. Durfee,
Cole, aud Thos. O. King. The Bishop then
called upon Sister H. T. King to express her
feelings, which she did out of the fulness of her
heart. Meeting was then dismissed, the bene-
diction pronounced by Thos. O. King. Bishop
Haight returned with us to the house of Bro.
King, where he stayed the night, leaving after
breakfast Monday morning. He is a very
kind, wise man, and is much beloved by the
whole settlement.
	On Thursday I attended the first Relief So-
ciety held in this region, Sister Mary Anne
Wake presiding, with her counselors, Sisters
Dennis Durfee and Anne Lowe. Teachers,
Sisters Dorcas King, Durfee, Graham, Ed-
wards and others.
	There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in
that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her
part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the
desires of her heart; but every one must have
realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting
and that infant society; and hence we knew it
must be a success. Each one felt it had been
a time of refreshing. As one expressed herself
to me, "I feel so much better than I did when
I came."
	All were separately called upon to arise and
express their feelings, and every one arose at
last, though it was evidently the trial of their
life to arise and hear the sound of their own


voices; but all conquered themselves and felt
blessed in doing so.
	I have been received in this region of coun-
try with open hearts by all, and with open
arms by many. They said, "I have known
you so long by your writings."
	My visit has been a time of refreshing to me
which I much needed, and the only drawback
is that I live in my home so far away from such
a host of honest, loving spirits, entirely free
from the trammels of conventional society, yet
nothing wanting in that etiquette which con-
sists in endeavoring to make all happy in the
associations of daily life. I have sold ten dol-
dar's worth of my "Epic Poem" here, I could
have sold as many more could I have visited
the surroundings, but I was not strong enough
to take repeated long journeys, and the rail has
not yet reached this remote region nearer than
Kelton, so we have to bow as usual to the inev-
itable.
	On Monday, the 13th, I arrived home—sweet
home. As soon as I reached Main Street I felt
the increased heat of the atmosphere, but the
spirit of love and kindness met me on my ar-
rival, and with that life is ever joyous and
satisfactory.
					HANNAH T. KING.


56	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Secretaries of Relief Society are notified to
send in semi-annual reports by the 15th of Sep-
tember.
	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annu-
al stake reports carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS.
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"The experience of Cornell University, New
York, in the matter of co-education, is said to
show that young women bear the strain of
mental work as well as men, and the percent-
age of sickness is not greater. A larger pro-
portion of women complete the course, and the
average of scholarship is higher than among
men."

	Washington, August 18th.—Mary Clemmer
Ames (Mrs.Hudson) died at her residence in this
city to-night of hemorrhage of the brain. She
had been too ill and feeble for several months
to keep up her usual literary work, but it was
not until last Wednesday that the rupture of a
blood vessel in the brain produced complete
prostration, ending finally in death.

	"At Johnstown, N.Y., Aug. 8, a Convention
of the people of Fulton County was held at
the court house to consider the County's atti-
tude towards the Woman Suffrage Bill. The
attendance was very large. Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Miss Margaret Wells, Miss Su-
san B. Anthony, and Miss Lillie Devereux
Blake were among the speakers. A resolution
was passed calling on the Senator and Assem-
blyman to work for the bill."


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	The 23th of July, the 66th birthday of Patriarch B. F.
Johnson, was celebrated in the following manner by
his wives and children: He was escorted to the bowery
by his sons, where, to his surprise, he found his family
seated in order at the table loaded with good things,
awaiting his appearance. He entered; took his seat at
the head, over which an arch had been formed and dec-
orated with fruit and flowers, and the flag of our coun-


ry behind. He pronouned it a complete surprise,
then gave thanks to our Father in heaven. 
	After partaking of supper, the Patriarch arose and
said that all who have entered into the celebration of my
birthday with love and good feeling, I say, God bless
you, and I bless you in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
	Of his children fifty-five absent. One hundred
and nine of the company belonged to his family. A
few useful gifts were presented, and a piece of poetry
written by a friend, expressing good wishes and that he
might always have the love of his children, was then
read.
	The evening was spent in dancing, himself cheerfully
joining in the excercise. All said the party was the most
enjoyable of any for many years.
	The Patriarch received the Gospel when sixteen years
of age, and has ever since been a lover of its principles,
and has instilled the love of the same into the hearts of
his children, for which now they return him thanks. He
is man of great enterprise and extensive labors: he has
a large and comprehensive mind and is a benefactor to
his people.
	Our Ward is fully organized with Relief Society,
Young Folks' Mutual and Primary, which are well at-
tended, and all seem to realize the importance of doing
their duty as presented. We are always pleased to re-
ceive the EXPONENT, and think everybody should read
it. Lovingly your sister in the truth,
								J. D. W.
	Tempe, Arizona.


PRIMARY PARTY.

ST. DAVID, Cochise Co., Arizona.

     St David Primary met with their picnic at 2 p.m. at
the residence of Pres. R. S. Merrill, to celebrate her 47th
birthday. They opened with singing and prayer and
then proceeded with recitations, select readings, singing
and Bible questions. President Rhoda S. Merrill, with
a heart full of joy, gave the children good instruction,
hoping when they grew to be the age she was, that they
might have as much honor shown them; also thanked
them for the presents that they had so kindly presented
to her. Twelve of the children joined together and
bought a nice set of glass ware; she also had many nice
presents, numbering twenty three in all. During a re-
cess they amused themselves playing games, then re-
turned to the house and partook of their picnic.
     They all enjoyed themselves very much. There were
sixty children present, the total number being seventy,
including the older people. Two little boys presented
compliments on the occasion.

     Dear Aunt Rhoda, I wish you a long life and a happy
one, that you may rejoice in teaching the Primary.
This is the wish of one of your number, and hope all
will be; and may God bless you. 
							PAUL H. BEEBE.

     Dear President, I hope that your days may be long
upon the earth, and when you pass behind the veil may
you be crowned in glory. This is the wish of your little
servant, 					SAMUEL K. BEEBE.
RHODA S. MERRILL, President,
ESTHER J. MERRILL; Secretary.


HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guaruntee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does no give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
				SMITH & CASE
P.O. Box 50 . 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE.
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, BOX 308, SALT LAKE CITY. 
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.		"
POEMS, by E.R.Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containging steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith an Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -		1.50		"
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON 
	Office and residence, Main Street, in  new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
		SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

		MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
		OFFICE IN CODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
	EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACE, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assorment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special deparment for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
 Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1884.


[FOR THE EXPONENT.]

UP AND NOT DOWN THE HILL OF
LIFE.

Some say 'tis down the hill of life
That we are traveling, dear old wife,
And that the heights are long since past,
And we are failing--failing fast.
But 'tis not true--this what they say--
Though they cry yea, I answer, nay!
I say 'tis up the hill we go,
And while we travel I ought to know.

Don't we look  back, as we ascend,
Over the journey clear to the end?
Cannot we see, though our eyes are dim,
All of the past unknown to them?
Cannot we feel we are drawing near
Those who are gone to the higher sphere?
Nearer the treasures we lost long ago?
They are above, and not below.

True, this old clay is crumbling fast,
True, that for long it cannot last.
But there's within a something yet
Grows ever stronger as up we get-
Traveling upward is the soul
Traveling upward the soul
Higher and higher towards the goal--
Hand in hand, my dear old wife,
Up to the future better life.
 						E. STEPHENS.


A SABBATH IN TENNESSEE.

     The quiet, still Sunday air, in a log cabin in
the State of Tennessee, was filled with the
sweet strains of sacred music. A few were
gathering together preparatory to divine wor-
ship. The hearts of those in that humble
dwelling were filled with peace and love to-
wards each other, and towards the whole hu-
man race.
    Those were there who had left their pleasant
homes, their wives and children, sisters and
brothers, fathers and mothers and friends dear
to them, in the vales of the rugged mountain
tops of Utah, to preach life and salvation to
those who sat in darkness, that know not God,
but who must hear of the truth of the Gospel.
So then had they come bringing glad tidings
of great joy, words that the Lord himself had
given-- that a new dispensation was opened.
They preached faith, repentance, and baptism
for the remission of sins, the laying on of 
hands that they might receive the Holy Ghost,
as they did anciently. They laid the plan of
salvation before the people; they could choose
for themselves. If those they preached to had
faith, repented of their sins and were baptized
by one holding authority from God, handed
down by John the Baptist, then had they en-
tered by the only door, and were on the straight
and narrow way that leads to life eternal.
Then angels rejoiced that some of the children
of mortals had obeyed the truth, while Satan
and his emissaries raged that their power and
influence were diminishing, and that more had
been snatched from their evil clutches. Seek-
ing those that listed the evil one to obey, they
stirred up their minds to hatred and envy, and
planted therein the foul, dark thought of mur-
der. Painting up the characters of these inno-
cent men with the deepest colors of iniquity,
they transformed the peaceful into the troubled
and the virtuous into the abominable. Such-
was their power. Their priests denounced
them and by every art, themselves misinformed,
strove to impart to their hearers, by quotations
from vile productions, their hatred against the

[column 2]
quiet, self-sacrificing missionaries of the Latter-
day Saints.
    The hymn was sung by the friends gathered
together in that log cabin; the last sweet note
was sounded. A missionary had taken up the
sacred Bible, when a murderous mob in furious
hate rushed to the gate. One came in, unslung
a shot gun from the wall and shot the unoffend-
ing missionary under the arm. He clutched the
wound, fell against the bed and died. No
word escapted his lips; he died a martyr to the
cause of truth.
    With demoniac rage another of the mob
took aim at another missionary, and while his
comrade grasped the rifle to keep it from
deadly execution, he fell himself to the floor,
shot by the infuriated mob, and died without a
struggle. A youth was the next fictim, his
only crime a belief in the principles of salva-
tion and befriending the Saints.
    At his fall his warm-hearted, impulsive
brother shot the murderer. "I'll have revenge,"
was heard, and young Hudson fell mortally
wounded.
    As if this work of death was not enough to
satisfy the insatiate spirit of murder, the mob
fired a volley through the window, which hit
the mother of the boys and entered the dead
body of Elder William S. Berry.
     They left, and anguish for their cruel be-
reavement and care for the wounded, occupied
those that were still left alive from the awful
massacre. One missionary alone escaped, by
fleeing to the protection of the woods.
    This dark deed was in a land of liberty, in
a time of peace, in an enlightened age, in a
nation that boasts its freedom, and invites the
inhabitants of other climes to dwell in this far-
famed land of peace. How has liberty fallen?
Mourn ye people of the nation for the trans-
gression of your laws, for the rampant spirit
of murder that stains your fair land with the
blood of innocence, that will assuredly cry un-
to heaven against the participants, and those
that appluad the act. Mourn for the trouble
that will befall you, mourn for the desolation
that awaits you, by earthquakes, lightnings,
tornadoes and pestilence, unless you turn and
repent. Mourn for the evil days that are com-
ing. "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and His words are sure.
    We mourn with the widows, the fatherless,
the brothers and sisters, the parents and the
aged mother, who loved the martyred ones.
    They have sealed their testimonies with their
blood. Their exaltation is sure. A glorious
reward will be theirs, and a martyr's crown will
they wear. They are where no power can
hurt them now.
				EMILY B. SPENCER.


MUSIC.

 There is a great power in music! Among
the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon
the human character. No lover of music can
help but be moved by its influence, no matter
in what shape it comes, though it has its differ-
ent effects upon the human mind. Who has
not had his heart melted into tenderness and
the fountain of his tears broken up by some
touching appeal of melody? Even the savage
who will stand mute and dumb in gazing upon
the most beautiful painting or piece of archi-
tecture, may be famed or subdued by the over-
powering influence of music.


And at church, what will concentrate the
minds of the audience on God more than a
beautiful hymn or anthem?  What a grand ef-
fect martial music has upon the soldier; how
quick one martial strain will convert cowardice
to bravery?  The pale cheek glows with excite-
ment and desire for approaching combat; the
whole man is changed, and at the inspiring call
of fife and drum he boldly marches against the
foe. How it thrills the dancer till the weary
feet forget their weariness as they move to and
fro by its magic spell.
	What sound will have as great an effect as
the hoot of an owl when you are in a melan-
choly frame of mind, say, for instance, when
you are alone in the dusk of evening, when you
prefer your  company to that of any other,
then the hooting of the owl has a blending
with your own feelings, and any other sound at
that moment would grate upon your feelings!
This is not confined to mankind alone, the ani-
mal creation is worked upon by its powerful in-
fluence. The slimy reptile, the enemy of man,
is brought into submission by its charms.  The
howling, gnashing, roaring beast is subdued by
its power.  God ordained this one art to be a 
blessing, a comfort, caused it to penetrate every
fibre of every living thing; and why should we
not cultivate this one great charm?  We read
of angels singing sweet songs and playing
sweet strains upon their harps of gold around
the throne of God.  We all can feel how glor-
ious this must be.
	To God we owe this choice blessing, a bless-
ing that brings peace and love; and may we all
have the pleasure of touching the strings of
the golden harps in the heaven above.
						J. E. CHILDS.
	Manuscript Paper, The Home Writer, Y.L.
M.I.A., Orangeville, Emery Co.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The recognition of sin is the beginning of
salvation.—Luther.

	Crimes sometimes shock us too much; vices,
almost always too little.—Hale.

	The best and noblest lives are those which
are set toward high ideals. And the highest
and noblest ideal that any man can have is
Jesus of Nazareth.—Almeron.

	Jenny Lind, the renowned singer, is spend-
ing the autumn of her days in a charming
home which she purchased last year at Wind's
Point, Eng. It is a romantic spot, and looks
upon the scene of the Tewksbury fight,
Gloucester, Cheltenham, Shakespeare's Avon,
the beacon tower that gave forth its light to
tell the anxious Parliament in London that
Charles was defeated in the fight at Edgehill,
and other points of historic interest. It is one
of the most notable homes in England.

	Good men have tried the Bible; in youth
and in old age; in sickness and in health; in
business and at home; in life and in death.
Lawyers have tried it; statesmen have tried it;
society has tried it in its charities, its educa-
tion and its laws; but it is not worn out; it is
not affected; it is ever young and never old; it
is the Lord's Book; we need no other; the long-
er it is tried the more satisfactorily it is proved
the Word of the Lord, which abideth forever.
—Dr. Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR-WHITNEY.
(Continued.)

	Colonel Kane, as before stated, was convales-
cent. The only cause of his sending to Fort
Leavenworth for a physician was his anxiety
for his Mormon friends, fearing that a relapse
might take him off, and his death might be
laid to their charge. He came among us with
the intention of learning the facts concerning
the strange people who had been so terribly
persecuted, and were now exiles from their
homes, and the spots doubly sacred—the rest-
ing place of their dear ones, and after all the
sorrows and suffering endured at the hands of
the government, they had willingly responded
to the first call.
	Thus was explained the act of his standing
eaves-dropping by the side of our tent, on his
first arrival at the camp. There was nothing
that seemed to escape his notice. The little
children who came around Brother Jede-
diah's tent, where he was nursed during his
sickness, were objects of interest. One of
Mother Whitney's little ones, a beautiful, fair,
curly haired boy, who was just recovering from
a severe illness, was one that attracted his at-
tention. As he was only a few rods from us
the child was often seen at the tent door where
he lay, or as he sat under the bower outside.
	The next spring there came to his friends
numerous and various tokens of remembrance.
Among them was a box containing fishing
tackle, etc., which was sent to the little fair-
haired Whitney boy; also the old nurse who
was living in Bishop Whitney's family—Aunt
Sabry Granger—was remembered to a large
box of superior black tea. As she parted
with a portion of it, my mother purchased a
few pounds, and I, being among the invalids,
was daily treated to this delicious beverage.
None were forgotten who had made his ac-
quaintance, or done him the slightest favor.
The presents, though, did not arrive till after
the pioneers had left.
	I take the following extracts from Colonel
Kane's Historical Discourse, delivered March
26th, 1850, as he gives the most interesting and
accurate description of what he termed the
"Tabernacle camps:"
	"The character of their everyday life, its
routine and conduct, alone offered any exclu-
sive or marked peculiarity. Their romantic
devotional observances, and their admirable
concert of purpose and action, met the eye at
once. After these the stranger was most
struck, perhaps, by the strict order of march,
the unconfused closing up to meet attack, the
skillful securing of the cattle upon the halt,
the system with which the watches were set at
night to guard them and the lines of the corral
—with other similar circumstances indicative
of the maintenance of a high state of disci-
pline.		*		*		*		*
The most striking feature, however, of the
Mormon emigration was, undoubtedly, their
formation of the Tabernacle camps and tem-
porary stakes or settlements, which renewed in
the sleeping solitudes, everywhere along their
road, the cheering signs of intelligent and
hopeful life.
	"I will make this remark plainer by des-
cribing to you one of these camps, with the
daily routing of its inhabitants. I select, at
random, for my purpose, a large camp upon
the delta between Nebraska and Missouri, in
the Territory disputed between the Omaha and
Otto and Missouri Indians. It remained
pitched here for nearly two months, during
which time I resided in it.		*		*
	"The wagons, as they arrived, took their posi-
tions along its four sides in double rows, so as
to leave a roomy street or passage way between
them. The tents were disposed also in rows at

[Column 2]
intervals between the wagons. The cattle
were folded in high fenced yards outside; the
quadrangle inside was left vacant for the
sake of ventilation, and the streets covered in
with leafy arbor work, and kept scrupulously
clean, formed a shaded cloister walk. This
was the place of exercise for slowly recovering
invalids, the day-home of the infants, and the
evening promenade of all.
	"From the first foundation of the camp all
its inhabitants were constantly and laboriously
occupied. Many of them were highly edu-
cated mechanics, and seemed only to need a
day's anticipated rest to engate them at the
forge, loom, or turning lathe, upon some need-
ed chore of work.	*	*	*	I have
had a piece of cloth, the wool of which was
sheared, and dyed, and spun and woven during
a progress of over three hundred miles.
	The chiefs were seldom without some curi-
ous affair on hand to settle with the restless
Indians; while the immense labor and respon-
sibility of the conduct of their unwieldly mov-
ing army, and the commissariat of its hun-
dreds of famishing poor also devolved upon
them. They had good men they called Bishops,
whose special office it was to look up the cases
of extremest suffering, and their relief parties
were out night and day to scour over every
trail.		*		*		*		*		*
	"A strong trait of the Mormons was their
kindness to their brute dependents, and particu-
laraly to their beasts of draught. They gave
them the holiday of the Sabbath whenever it
came round. I believe they would have
washed them with old wine after the example
of the emigrant Carthaginians, had they had
any.	*	*	The great mass of these pilgrims of
the desert were made up of poor folks, who had
fled in destitution from Nauvoo and been re-
fused a resting place by the people of Iowa.
	"It is difficult to fully understand the state
of helplessness in which some of these would
arrive after accomplishing a journey of such
extent, under circumstances of so much priva-
tion and peril.		*		*		*		*
	"Beside the common duty of guiding and as-
sisting these unfortunates, the companies in the
van united in providing the highway for the
entire body of emigrants. The Mormons
have laid out for themselves a road through
the Indian Territory, over four hundred
leagues in length, with substantial, well built
bridges, fit for the passage of heavy artillery,
over all the streams except a few great rivers,
where they have established permanent ferries.
The nearest unfinished bridging to the Papillon
camp was that of the "Conne a Cerf," or Elk
Horn, a tributary of the Platte, distant, may-
be, a couple of hours' march. Here, in what
seemed to be an incredibly short space of
time, there rose the seven great piers and abut-
ments of a bridge, such as might challenge
honors for the entire public-spirited population
of Lower Virginia. The party detailed to the
task worked in the broiling sun, in water be-
yond depth, and up to their necks, as if en-
gaged in the perpetration of some pointed and
delightful practical joke. The chief sport lay
in floating along with the logs, cut from the
overhanging timber up the stream, guiding
them til they reached their destination, and
then plunging them under water in the precise
spot where they were to be secured. This the
laughing engineers would execute with the
agility of happy diving ducks."


A TRIP TO THE MOUNTAINS.

	Hurry! hurry! first one parcel and then an-
other (for nothing must be forgotten), then we
will be off to spend the 24th of July in the 
mountains; babies dressed, wrapped and put in
the wagon, and at last everything is ready and
we are on the road.  Oh, how warm the sun
beats down upon us, and the dust, how it flies


in our faces, but soon we are at the mouth of
the canyon and now we begin to feel the cool
canyon breeze, and oh, how refreshing it is; how
we enjoy it, even the babies seem to appreciate
getting where it is cool.  But here we have one
disadvantage, the rocky roads, although they
are good canyon roads, yet rough enough to
shake one considerably; but still we enjoy it
all, the rough roads, the cool breeze and the
beautiful scenery.
	Here the road winds along a clear stream,
bordered with green grass and moss, with flow-
ers blooming here and there, with gigantic
rocks on either side of us looking as though
they were about to give way and fall upon us,
and finally, when horses and children are alike
tired, we camp; next we build a camp fire and
proceed to get supper, but, unlike some, we do
not fret over our complexions, so if the fire
heats and reddens our faces it does not inter-
fere with our pleasure as we hasten our sup-
per and retire.
	Awake with the sun, get breakfast and re-
sume our journey and about 10 o'clock, tired
and jaded, reach our destination, the saw and
shingle mills, situated in a beautiful spot in the
tops of the mountains, with four or five fami-
lies residing in small cabins, cooking for the
mill hands.  How beautiful every thing looks
around us, beautiful flowers, stately trees, war-
bling birds, and a babbling brook rushing over
rocks, winding around here and there, and
finally disappearing in the distance.
	After enjoying the scenery a short time, we
endeavor to erase some of the travel stains and
rest ourselves for the morrow.  As evening ap-
proached we found it quite cold, in fact shawls
were quite comfortable; some retired as soon as 
possible.
	At day break we were awakened by the sa-
lute of artillery and music by the brass band,
under the leadership of Bro. S. R. Jenks.  At
sunrise the stars and stripes were raised, with
music from the band, which sounded sweet, al-
though there was only a part of our band
there, those few were working at the mill and
happened to have their instruments with them.
As soon as possible we gathered togetehr and
prepared to cook dinner and all dine together,
the men preparing a shady place where we could
spread a table large enough for all to sit down.
We then partook of a hearty dinner; all seemed
to be full of sport and to enjoy themselves.  Af-
ter dinner we all proceeded to a large reservoir,
where they had a raft prepared and we all
enjoyed a ride on the water, both old and
young, large and small.  We were also enter-
tained with music form the band.  Those who
have heard sweet music on the water can imagine
how sweet and heavenly it sounded. There
were also a number of songs sung by the assem-
bly, one was very nice and was composed that
morning for the occasion by Josie E. Childs.
	After spending the day pleasantly we re-
turned to the houses and spent another cool
night in the mountains, and the next day re-
turned to our homes in the hot and dusty val-
ley, tired, hungry, and dusty, where we felt to
say with the Nens, oh, for a lodge in some vast
wilderness of ice cream and shade trees!
					AGGIE CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Aug. 4th.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton contributed an
able article to the September North American
Review on "The Need of Liberal Divorce laws."

	Know thy opportunity; prepare for it.  Break
stone, if it be thy business, for the chariot-
wheels of princes. You may be called to ride
before the sun sets.-- Providence Journal.

	There is the law of benefits between men:  the
one ought to forget at once what he has given,
and the other ought never to forget what he
has received.-- Seneca.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELEN AND VIRGINIA.
			[Continued.]

From him, for Helen's sake alone.
Then Helen weighed in her own soul
The honor, loyalty, in theirs;
	She knew they dearer held her peace
Than their own love, as yet untold,
	And she must bring them their release.

"A year has come and gone since she
Became one of our household band.
One of us? Yes, for never more
	Could life be just the same again,
When first I took her by the hand
	Our spirit﻿s mated, blended then.

"When first I looked in her gray eyes
And met their pure and steadfast truth,
The lips so firm, the brow so calm,
	Her manner gentle, full of grace
Beyond her circumstance' and youth,
	E'en when I loved the stranger's face.

"When winter came my heart could not
Deny her shelter, aye, and love!
Winter has passed, and now 'tis spring,
	And nature all around me wakes
And lifts its offering above--
	Only my soul delaying breaks

"The universal law of God,
Shall not my heart pour forth like spring
An offering to creation's God?
	Or shall I still delaying yield
But fruitless shade to those who cling
	Like I, to laws and hopes revealed?

"When travel worn and hungry, came
Our blessed Lord, where branching stood
The barren fig tree by the way,
	He cursed the tree that mocked His need;
Then, thou my soul that knoweth good
	From evil, this same lesson heed.

"And what is human love that we
Sould count it all, and prize it o'er
God's higher love our best reward?
	Were earth love all, 'twould bondage be,
And life a game of chance, no more--
	But knowledge raises, makes us free.

Shall I, when these brief years are past,
And higher spheres of life are won,
Repining count earth's pleasures o'er
	As misers count their shining gold?
No, I shall drop them one by one
	For joys more sweet an hundred fold.

"What shall it matter in that time
The trials we chafe o'er to-day?
Only if we were overcome,
	Or if we saw beneath disguise,
The tempter luring us this way,
	And won at last, by faith, the prize.

O life! so brief thy sweetest days,
So vain thy promises to all,
So frail the staff that thou dost lend;
	Thou art but token of the goal
To lead us where no more shall fall
	From reach the hopes that guide the soul."

There came at last to Helen's heart
The time to speak.  The warm, bright day
Was nearly gone, and Helen's dear
	And only sister say with them,
And spoke in musing absent way,
	Gazing down toward her garment's hem,

"Dear Helen, have you chance to think
How swift the year has passed away
Since you were in Virginia here?
	Supposed you let her come to me
As long as she should choose to stay;
	Perhaps a change might pleasant be.

Looking not in Virginia's face
To not its sudden, pained suprise
Helen quick answered, for her heart
	Knew well how deep her words would fall;
"Sister, I think a change unwise,
	There's pleasure here enough for all."

Virginia softly left the room,
And Helen's sister in amaze
Turned in her chair with searching look.
	A thought stole slowly o'er her mind, 
But naught in Helen's quiet gaze
	Confirmed the vision scarce defined.

"Dear Helen, have you thought what weight
And meaning your few words might bear
To this young girl?" Then Helen paled,
	But answered her with steady tome,
"Yes, sister, I am well aware;
	For many months my heart has known

"Their fullest import; I have come
To where the path at last divides,
And I must choose the path of test,
	Or turn aside renouncing all.
My God supports, my heart decides
	To follow where His voice doth call."


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

Continued.

	Perhaps the next most notable event that
occurred in Sister Presendia's history was when
her son left Utah to go and join his brother in
the east, who had offered him some induce-
ments if he would leave the Saints and come
and live in Missouri. When President Wells
went on his mission to England, Oliver drove
his team to the frontier. Sister Presendia says
no mortal being knows what she suffered in
her feelings at that time. The son who had
been with her in all her travelings, the only
one she brought with her from her home, now
to voluntarily forsake her and leave the valley
after all these years seemed more than she
could bear. Some years later the two brothers,
George and Oliver came to Salt Lake and
made their mother a visit.
	In 1867 Sister Vilate Kimball was called
hence after a most severe and suffering illness.
Sister Presendia assisted in waiting upon her
in her last hours, and helped her daughter
Helen prepare the body for burial after death.
	In June, 1868, President Heber C. Kimball
died. Sister Presendia felt she had lost her
protecter and her nearest and dearest friend,
but she had the Spirit of the Lord to enable
her to rise superior to the affliction, and she
went about her daily duties with a spirit of
patient resignation and heavenly calm.
 	June 15, 1868, a Relief Society was organ-
ized in the 16th Ward, where Sister Presendia
resided, by Bishop Kesler, and she was chosen
to fill the position of Secretary, which she has
held ever since. At the organization Sister
Sarah M. Kimball was present and had brought
a book containing the minutes of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, called
by the President, Joseph Smith, when Sister
Presendia was admitted as a member, and some
great promises were made to her.
	In May, 1870, a curious incident happened,
which it seems proper to relate in connection
with this venerable woman:
	One night, about half past eleven o'clock,
disturbed by a knock or the sound of footsteps,
Sister Kimball went to the door and discovered
a bundle lying on the step of the door. She
says she knew instinctively it was a child, and
before opening it she felt positive it was a girl.
She received it as a gift from heaven, and bes-
towed upon it the most tender care. It was
blessed by Apostle Joseph F. Smith, and given
the name Josephine. The foster mother
fondly hoped to rear this little one to woman-
hood to supply in part the place of the one
that had been so suddenly called away, but
alas, the little creature was frail and delicate,
and in spite of the love and affectionate solici-
tude bestowed upon the little one, who had
been cast off by her own mother, she, too was
taken to a better and purer world.
	In 1871, Joseph, Sister Presendia's young-
est son, married Lathilla, daughter of Elder
Orson Pratt. This marriage pleased Sister
Presendia, she felt Miss Pratt would be a good
and true companion for her son. Not lon

[Column 2]
after Sister Presendia was summoned to go
east to the death bed of her son Oliver, who
was afflicted with cancer. His wife was con-
fined the night she arrived. She staid there
and waited upon her son until his sufferings
were over, he died April 22nd, 1872. And
then after assisting his wife to set her house
in order and arrange her affairs, went and
made a visit to her son George before re-
turning home. When she came back she
brought her two little grandsons Fredrick 11
and George 9 years of age. Joseph and
his wife kept house for her in her absence,
and soon after her return Joseph and wife
moved to Meadowville, in Bear Lake Val-
ley, where he has since been appointed Bishop,
a circumstance which must have been very
gratifying to his mother who had endured so
many cruel disappointments in regard to her
children. From this time, however, the wheel
of fortune seemed to have taken a favorable
turn, and her life seemed to have become more
prosperous and happy, yet more active still in
spiritual work.
	It might, perhaps, be well to state in this
connection that Sister Presendia is almost daily
sent for to administer to the sick, devoting a
large part of her time to this particular duty.
The laying out of the dead and dressing them
is a work to which she seems especially adapted.
It is a little singular that she has performed
the last offices of this nature for all the wives
of Heber C. Kimball that have died except
one. Theresa, Mary, Louisa, Sarah, Sarah
Ann, Anna and Ellen.
	No woman could feel more enthusiasm in
her labor among the sisters that Sister Presen-
dia, and her labors justly appreciated. It
is a grand and noble calling to alleviate suffer-
ing and to console the sorrowing. Blessing
others she is herself blessed.


<i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk="">CAPACITY<i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk=""><i .="" r5)-7-="" a="" r="" ,pa?agity="" i="" and="" .opportunity.,="" ".hi:t'1="" :="" 1="" 4‘you="" pould="" never,="" do="" any="" tiling--but,="" .that.”="" how.="" often="" are="" -those="" wofds="" thought,‘.ifnot="" spokenandwhen="" spoken,="" how="" oi't$n="" they="" pro-="" jducea="" feeling="" of="" contempt.and,-angejf,at.the="" speaker;="" when="" the="" fatter="" is="" cause="" it.="" we'hear="" "such="" thing="" oreffort="" being="" perfect="" success,="" when,="" if="" we="" examine="" if,-if="" was="" partly="" insured="" by="" hdaptation’and="" that="" adapta-="" tion="" surrounded="" favorable="" circumstances,="" one="" is,of="" little="" conseqlittlee="" withdut="" other,="" but="" combined="" easily="" produce="" --what-often="" v;seams="" to.="" us="" perfection;t'.ieilt="" no="" where="" .thb="" ipro.rei="" noticeable-="" than-in="" o.urgefves.wien="" person,="" is.naturally="" consti-="" tuted="" to="" pursue="" path.it="" h="" hard,tq;walk=""> AND OPPORTUNITY.

     "You could never do anything by that."
How often are those words thought if not
spoken and when spoken, how often they pro-
duce a feeling of contempt and anger at the
speaker when the latter is the cause of it. How
often we hear of such a thing or effort being a
perfect success, when, if we examine it, it was
partly insured by adaptation and that adapta-
tion surrounded by favorable circumstances,
one is of little consequence without the other,
but combined they easily produce what often
seems to us perfection.
     No where is this more noticeable than in
ourselves. When a person is naturally consti-
tuted to pursue one path it is hard to walk in
another. Our brain dictates the course to pur-
sue, for in it are certain organs, some larger
than others, these bestow our tastes and influ-
ence over our lives, and how natural that we
should think and act according to our "make up."
     The farmer and gardener considers the hab-
its and nature of his seeds and plants and then
acts accordingly; what would be suitable and
life to me would be death to another. No one
could ever think of trying to grow tropical
fruits in the open air in Alaska, and we do not
think it strange that birds do not creep or gar-
den worms fly; yet as great incongruities are
expected daily by parents from their children,
their mental capabilities which produce their
likes and dislikes are rarely taken into consid-
eration, while they may be gifted and able to
attain comparative excellence with ease in sev-
eral different ways and then if they have the
opportunity and make a success in one direc-
tion their capacities are harrowed into that
one groove, and then comes the stinging reproof
"You could never do anything but that." And
if the influence of their lucky stars had not
outweighed their guardian's discretion they
could never have done that.	A.F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months
$1.000 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of non-parell space, one
time, $2.50. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.


MRS. LOCKWOOD'S NOMINATION.

     The following telegraphic dispatch speaks for
itself; and opens up a new phase of the presiden-
tial campaign:

     Washington, 4.--Mrs. Lockwood has written a
letter formally accepting the nomination as the
candidate of the Woman's National Rights par-
ty in California for the office of President of the
United States.
	Washington, 4.-Mrs. Lockwood says her an-
ti-monopoly and civil service policy "is funny,"
and that her Indian policy is "good, sound sense,
I make a bid for all voters. I wish German,
temperance, monopolists, anti-monopolists,capi-
talists, and laborers. I did not know, she said, 
"how to get around the Germans, because I'm
temperance; so I said that due-consideration will
be given to honest, industrious, home loving
Germans." Mrs. Lockwood's letter from the
Western women says that she was selected for
President because Elizabeth Cady Stanton was
"too old," Susan B. Anthony "too much of a
spinster," Mary A. Livermore "too opposed to
certain classes," and Lucy Stone "too narrow."
The new candidate to-night wrote a letter to her
western friends asking about the Vice Presiden-
cy, and saying it was an important and serious
question.

     No doubt Mrs. Lockwood is in many, perhaps
most respects quite as capable of occupying the
honored position of the Chief Executive of the
nation, as many of those who have figured in
that capacity. She is a woman of great ability
and her brain is as clear and her reasoning as
logical as that of a man, she talks not only as
fast, but as well, her language is as good, and she
hits the nail on the head quite as often, and hits
as hard; she is brave and fearless, but she is a 
woman, and that any woman should aspire to
the position would be sufficient to condemn her
in the estimation of the masses of the people.
Yet they are never weary of extolling Queen
Victoria, and even go as far back as Elizabeth
of England for an example of woman's great-
ness. Then why not a superior American wo-
man, one manifestly just as capable of holding
the reins of powers as Victoria.
     One would say, perhaps, Queens are born to
them, it is the royal blood; but the blood of free-
dom is inherent in the veins of every true citi-
zen of the Republic, whether man or woman,
and though greatness may not be thrust upon
one as it is upon the English nobility, yet why
should not one attain to eminence, even though
she be a woman, by diligence in studying the
questions of the day, the needs of the govern-
ment, the best interests of the great common-
wealth, and political economy and policies gen-
erally. Although the nomination may not cre-
ate any stirring sensation at the present time,

yet it will have its bearing upon the future, and
will awaken thoughts that might otherwise have
lain dormant.
	Mrs. Lockwood shall have our best wishes for
her success as a nominee for President, and we
have no doubt as to her ability to preside over
the affairs of the nation.  She is fearless for
what she deems right, and valiant for justice
and will maintain her position on any matter of
importance with quite as much independence of
character as any man.  Her Washington life
has initiated her into many knotty points in the
political issues now pending in Congress and
she is, by means of her intuitive tact and grand
opportunities, pretty well acquanted with
the general business of the departments of
State.  In her manner she has the appearance
of a military officer of high rank.  She is cer-
tainly a woman of superior endowments and at-
tainments, and if a woman were eligivle to be
President of the United States, there could be
no good reason why it should not be Belva A.
Lockwood.
	At any rate it is something to record the nom-
ination of a woman for a position that has been
always filled by a man.  But times and things
are changing and woman's hour is near, and
Mrs. Lockwood does but anticipate, like some
others, living too near the future; she feels the
spirit of progress that is revolutionizing the old
and breaking in pieces the iron rules of tradition
and crumbling to atoms the theories of states-
men of olden times.  A new era is being ush-
ered in and women are born with hearts as large
and aims as lofty, and courage as undaunted as
men--women who do their own thinking and
who are not content to sit and dream and wait
for the good time coming, but who will them-
selves open up the way for the advancement of
others and thrust the sickle into the field of rip-
ened grain.  They may be called innovators
and extremests, but, nevertheles, they will stand
out grandly in the future and be applauded as
benefactors of the human race, for what lifts
woman elevates man, for is she not the mother
of mankind?  Mrs. Lockwood's nomination
will, we ardently hope, call out expressions of
sentiment and opinions upon the woman suf-
frage question, that will eventually result in
great good to the cause and enlighten a class of
people who "sit in gross darkness" on this very
important subject, one which in its bearing con-
nects itself materially with that of many vital-
matters, that stem up the tide of human pro-
gress and advancement.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have received from the N. W. S. A., in
pamphlet form, a complete report of the Six-
teenth Annual Washington Convention held
March 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th; 1884, with reports
of the Forty-eight Congress. The book is edi-
ted by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony, and published at Rochester, N. Y. It
is a very carefully prepared and elaborate work
and contains much useful information on suf-
frage work, both in America and Europe, in the
speeches and letters that are given in full. Two
letters from Utah are given, one from Mrs. E.
B. Wells and one from Mrs. Annie Godbe.
	MRS. E. R. S. SMITH, President of the Relief
Society, has prepared a list of the names of all
the Stake and Ward Presidents of the Relief So-
ciety in the valleys of the mountains. It is
printed on sheets and a copy will be sent to the
President of each Ward as soon as practicable.
	THE Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held on the 19th and 20th inst., in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.

[Column 2]
	THE Woman's Conference of Tooele Stake will
be held on the 13th and 14th inst. in Tooele.
Visitors from Salt Lake are expected to attend.

	SANPETE Stake Woman's Conference com-
menced on the 12th inst. at Fountain Green.
Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells of
this city were present, also Sister Minerva W.
Snow of St. George. They will hold some other
meetings in the settlements in that county.

	TWO new books recently issued from the Ju-
venile Instructor Office were laid upon our table
the other day, a favor which we very willingly
acknowledge. One is entitled, "Labors in the
Vineyard," and is the twelfth book of the Faith
Promoting Series, and is a very excellent little
work. The contents are: "My Experience in
England," by C. V. Spencer; "My Swiss Mis-
sion," by William Budge; "The Faith of the
Zunis," by Liewellyn Harris; "Sketch of a
Well-spent Life," by Harrison Burgess; "The
Lord's Blessings," by Amasa Potter; "Results of
Disobedience," by T. R. Daniels. These testi-
monies are well calculated to inspire faith in the
minds of the children and young people of Zion,
which is a very desirable object to be attained.
Price, 25 cts.
	The other little work is in a pamphlet form
and is the "Public Discussion of the Doctrines
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ," held in the Og-
den Tabernacle, May 8 and 9, 1884, between the
Rev. Richard Hartley, Pastor of the Baptist
Church in Ogden and representing the minis-
ters of the various Christian denominations in
the Territory, and Ben C. Rich, son of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, and an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Price 20 cts.

	This discussion is one of the best things our
young people can read, and it should greatly en-
courage our young Elders to know that this
young, unlearned youth could, through the in-
spiration of the Holy Spirit which rested upon
him as a servant of God holding the Priesthood,
so readily bring forward such conclusive
evidence without hesitation, and to the aston-
ishment of those who had been engaged for
years in preaching the doctrines of the Latter-
day Saints.

	MISS N. VIRGINIA DONAGHE and her sister,
Miss Hallie R. Donaghe, from Colorada Springs
are spending a few days in Salt Lake City as a
sort of rest and for recreation, to take in the
points of interest, and see for themselves some-
thing of the people. They are stopping at the
Spencer House. Miss Donaghe was formerly
one of the editors of the "Daily Republic" at
Colorado Springs and has been connected with
other papers and is still engaged in journalism,
and will write some letters from Salt Lake City.
We have spent a very pleasant evening with
these young ladies, and found them very intelli-
gent and free from prejudice. They were for-
merly from Virginia.

	ON Tuesday we had an exceedingly pleasant
call from Mrs. Felix of Chicago, a very pleasant
and most interesting lady, a member of the N.
W. S. A. and Woman's Congress, also the La-
dies' Club of Chicago; she is thoroughly interested
in woman's work, in education and charitable
institutions. She had heard considerable of us
through the Woman's Congress and National
Woman's Suffrage Association, and felt that she
would like to call. She expressed herself much
pleased with the way in which we care for our
people who are in need of assistance, also with
the privileges which women enjoy in our com-
munity. She very cordially invited us to visit
her at her home and seemed as friendly as she
could possibly have been with a woman who
was not a Mormon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


[Column 1]
TO THE BRANCHES OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	Being very frequently receiving letters of in-
quiry relative to duties, practices, privileges,
etc., of officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, and being unable to devote sufficient
time to answer individually, we gladly accept
the privilege extended by Mrs. Wells to respond
in general manner through the columns of the
EXPONENT.
	"Should a president of teachers be appointed
in each branch?"
	It is better for small branches not to appoint a
president. In those, the teachers should report
in the general meetings, and keep no separate
minutes. In every branch the president of the
organization virtually presides over the teachers;
and presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumula-
tion of work as to render it necessary to relieve
the presiding board.
	"Should the teachers' minutes be read in the
general meetings?"
	All members who attend meeting should be
made acquainted with and have a voice in all
business transactions of importance in both de-
partments. No "change has been made" in
this respect.
	"Is it right for the sisters to raffle?"
	We say emphatically, No! Raffle is only a
modified name of gamble. President Brigham
Young once said to me, "Tell the sisters not to
raffle; if the mothers raffle, their children will
gamble. Raffling is gambling."
	Some say, "What shall we do? We have
quilts on hand-we cannot sell them, and we
need the means to supply our treasury, which
we can obtain by raffling, for the benefit of the
poor." Rather let the quilts rot on the shelves
than adopt the old adage: "The end will sancti-
fy the means." As Latter-day Saints, we can-
not afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject-Supposing an
article, quilt or other property, is put up for raf-
fle: twenty persons donate 25 cents each; all
hope to draw the prize, and only one wins,
while nineteen who have each contributed as
much as the successful one, gain nothing but
disappointment, which is almost certain to
arouse feelings of jealousy to a greater or less
extent.
	Why not all donate 25 cents each to replenish
the treasury, as well as to run the chances and
only one succeed? And then by mutual consent
donating the article or articles in question to
some charitable purpose, they prevent the cause
of jealousy and dissension-the same amount
will go to the treasury and no unworthy exam-
ple and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	"Should members of the Relief Society go to
the Bishops for counsel?"
	The Relief Society is designed to be a self-
governing organization to relieve the Bishops as
well as to relieve the poor, to deal with its mem-
bers, correct abuses, etc. If difficulties arise be-
tween members of a branch which they cannot
settle between the members themselves, sided
by the teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their president
and her counselors. If the branch board cannot
decide satisfactorily, an appeal to the stake
board is next in order; if that fails to settle the
question, the next step brings it before the gen-
eral board, from which the only resort is to the
Priesthood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their multitu-
dinous labors.
	"Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart to
officiate in the sacred ordinances of washing

[Column 2]
anointing, and laying on of hands in administer-
ing to the sick?"
	It certainly is not. Any and all sisters who
honor their holy endowments, not only have
the right, but should feel it a duty, whenever
called upon to administer to our sisters in these
ordinances, which God has graciously commit-
ted to His daughters as well as to His sons; and
we testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with all mighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed
these sacred ordinances and committed them to
His Saints, it is not only our privilege but our
imperative duty to apply them for the relief of
human suffering. We think we may safely say
thousands can testify that God has sanctioned
the administration of these ordinances by our
sisters with the manifestations of His healing
influence.
	"What age is most suitable for young lady of-
ficers?"
	The young should fill all official positions in
the Young Ladies' branch (ward) Associations.
No matter how unequal they feel to the situa-
tion, if they possess sufficient energy of charac-
ter and the true spirit of the Gospel, trust in
God, they will be sure to succeed.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12th., 1884.


[Column 1]
A TOUCHING TRIBUTE.

MA SMOOT.

	Yesterday (September 1st) at 20 minutes past
5 o'clock p m., Ma Smoot passed away from
earth. She was born on the 16th of April, 1809,
in Chester District, South Carolina. Her father
was a revolutionary soldier and her grandfather
Hunter was an officer of high rank during the
country's struggle for freedom. Her brothers
served an honorable term in the war of 1812.
	When she was eighteen years of age she was
married to Wm. Atkinson, and a year afterwards
a son was born to her. Widowed soon after the
birth of her child, she removed to Paris, Henry
Co., Tenn. Here she heard the sound of the
Gospel, and was baptised by Warren Parrish on
the 5th of Nov. 1834. In May, 1837, she went
with her child up to Far West, traveling in El
ders Sherwood and Smoot's company. On the
11th of Nov., 1838, she was married to A. O.
Smoot, while Far West was surrounded and the
people made prisoners of war. Driven with the
body of the Saints from that place they at last
reached Ambrosia, where they were counseled
to remain. 
	Elder Smoot, during the next two or three
years, fulfilled three missions to Tennessee and
Alabama, on two of them being accompanied
by his wife. The couple had removed to Nau-
voo, and although Elder Smoot was absent on a
mission, the family were there when the awful
martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch oc-
curred.
	When the cry, "Westward, O Zion," rang
around Israel, Elder Smoot was among the first
who were ready to start. He was appointed
captain over 120 wagons, in the company of 660
wagons that followed the Pioneers. Daniel
Spencer's being the first. They entered Salt
Lake Valley on the 24th of September, 1847.
	Among the first of those noble men who re-
ceived and obeyed the law of celestial marriage
was Elder A. O. Smoot, and as Ma asid a short
time before her death, "I knew it was right from
the first. I went into it with a willing heart. I
have never doubted it, never fought it. I have
lived it, I shall die it." This is the key to her
whole noble character. Too mortal not to err,
she was too consci[--]tions to remain in the

[Column 2]
wrong. Forgiving to a fault, devoted to her
husband's whole family, and revered and hon-
ored by them, she was to all, family and friends,
"Ma Smoot." Her character was full of a rug-
ged simplicity, a proud firmness, and a woman-
ly submission to God and her husband.
	She was the first President of the 20th Ward
Relief Society, and when she removed to Provo
in Oct., 1872, she was sadly missed by her com-
panions and friends in the city. She occupied
the position of President of the Silk Association
in this Stake, until she felt obliged by her other
duties to resign. In 1878, when the Stake or-
ganization was completed she was chosen as
Stake President of this (Utah) Stake. With
what loving self-sacrifice and womanly dignity
she filled this position until her death, only the
weeping hearts of the sisters throughout this
Stake can testify. She assisted in the organiza
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of this whole Stake. 
	On the 9th of May, 1883, she was prostrated
by paralysis. Her life, which had been so ac-
tive, so useful, was suddenly closed in the vise-
like grasp of palsy, since which time, those to
whom she has so fondly ministered during her
life, have gladly returned a few of her kind-
nesses. During the winter her health seemed
to improve and she recovered her speech to a
great extent and was able to ride out some. As
spring deepened she seemed to fade away, and
about six weeks ago she received another stroke
Since then she has been confined to her bed,
and has lost the use of her left side, as well as
her speech. Yesterday she seemed brighter,
and was conscious to the last, kissed every one
of the family and friends around her good-bye,
and at 4 o'clock p.m. the room was cleared.
Turning over then, when all was still, the brave,
pure spirit peacefully bade good-bye to its earth
ly tabernacle and passed to eternity.
	Although we miss her, we can but feel a deep,
solemn joy that one so nobly worthy has gone to
her sure reward.					HOMESPUN.


RUTH SAYERS.

	Sister Sayers was well known among the early
settlers in this city. Tall and erect in figure, a
countenance always beaming with human kind-
ness, charitable to the poor and ever ready to
comfort the disconsolate, she endeared herself
to her associates. She was a woman of brilliant
conversational powers and possessed a ready
fund of valuable information, especially upon
topics of interest to the Saints. She was never
tired of relating incidents of her Boston life nor
of dwelling upon Gospel themes and the days of
Joseph and Hyrum. She has passed to her rest
and joined those gone before whom she so rev-
erenced in life; her record here was that of a
brave and true Latter-day Saint. We cannot
mourn for such deaths as hers, it is only step-
ping from one sphere of usefulness to another.
Ruth Dagget Vose Sayers was born February
26, 1808, in Watertown, Mass. Her parents were
Mark and Sally Vose. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in May, 1832, in the city of Boston. Dur-
ing the building of the Kirtland Temple her
aunt Polly Vose and herself were engaged in up-
holstering in Boston, they both felt it was right
and necessary to give liberally towards the erec-
tion of that edifice, and did so to the full ex-
tent of their means, continuing their donations
until the Prophet Joseph sent word to them, "It
is enough." The Elders of the Church in trav-
eling in the Eastern States were the recipients
of their unbounded liberality.
	Mrs. Sayers was married in her youth to Mr.
Edward Sayers, a thoroughly practical horticul-
turlat and florist, and though he was not a mem-


ber of the Church, yet he willingly joined his
fortune with hers and they reached Nauvoo to-
gether some time in the year 1841; they re-
mained there until after the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
when they returned to Boston, and remained in
that city until 1849, when they came to this
valley, locating first on the corner afterwards
known as the American Hotel Corner; the year
after they removed to the Twelfth Ward, where
they both resided during the remainder of their
lives. Mr. Sayers passed away July 17, 1861,
being in his sixtieth year. Miss Vose or Aunt
Polly as she was familiarly called came to Utah
in 1857. Mrs. Sayers traveled to Boston the year
previous for the purpose of bringing her aged
relative back with her. Aunt Polly died Dec-
ember 9, 1866, being then eighty-six years old.
She was the only blood relative of Sister Sayers
that joined the Church. She had one brother
only, no sister; this brother, who was her pride,
and of whom she was devotedly fond, was killed
by a band of Seminole Indians, led by Koo-
kooche, a chief under the celebrated Seminole
chief "Wild Cat" on the 15th day of June, 1839,
eleven miles from St. Augustine, State of Flori-
da. Two other men were killed at the same
time, one named Miller, a traveler like Mr.
Vose, the other man was a resident of St. Au-
gustine. They were buried on the following
Sunday in the St. Augustine Cemetery. Mr. T.
A. Lyne, the veteran actor now residing in Salt
Lake City, was there at the time with a thea-
trical company and assisted in the burial of the
bodies.
	Sister Sayers has remained a widow since the
death of her husband in 1861, and has lived a
very quiet and retired life, yet known to many
as a woman worthy to be classed among the no-
ble daughters of earth, simple in her tastes and
habits, honest, liberal, kind and just, faithful
and true, she passed calmly to her rest on the
morning of the 18th of August, 1884, in the
seventy-seventh year of her age. Peace to her
ashes.
	The funeral services over her remains were
held (by her request) in her own house, where a
few of her most cherished friends were assem-
bled, on the following day, August 19. She did
not wish to be kept after her death any longer
than was absolutely necessary. Bishop H. B.
Clawson conducted the services, the speakers
were those who had known her intimately, and
they spoke eloquently of her unbounded faith
and her perfect trust in the Gospel she had em-
braced and for the sake of which she had left
home, friends and kindred forever.
	In the Salt Lake City Cemetery can be seen
three plain stone slabs, side by side, bearing the
following inscriptions (her own choice), Edward
Sayers, Mary Vose, Ruth D. V. Sayers.


62	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.

	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourtheenth Ward Assembly Rooms
on Saturday, Sept. 6, commencing at 2 p.m.,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. After sing-
ing prayer was offered by Mrs. Mary Freeze,
then singing again; the minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted, and minutes of
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Eleventh Ward were read.
Mrs. Horne made a few remarks, and was fol-
lowed by Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball and Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. Sister Horne re-
quested the sisters in the audience to occupy the
time, and several of them spoke. Mrs. Susan
K. Greene made quite an eloquent appeal to the
sisters, which seemed to have a telling effect
upon all who heard it. She had apparently
quite a remarkable outpouring of the Spirit of


God, and for a few minutes must have lost sight
of the present altogether.
	Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough spoke feelingly up-
on the disciplining of children, and pointed out
clearly where so many fail in government.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke a few minutes, urged
the sisters to attend to the duty of registering
and voting, and use their influence with neigh-
bors and friends, also asked them to pay in
the memberships due to the Hospital.
	Mrs. Horne made closing remarks and allud-
ed to the gift of faith, the healing of the sick,
and gave much good, practical instruction to
mothers about the care of little children.
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing." Benediction by Mrs. Lillie Freeze.


LETTER.

ELBA, Cassia Co., Idaho.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 21st of July, 1883, Bishop Haughton
Haight and some other brethren from Goose
Creek paid us a visit. They organized a Relief
Society, and the following officers were elected
by unanimous vote: Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor,
President; Mrs. Mary Ann Osterhout and Mrs.
Margaret Rice, Counselors; Mrs. Clarinda
Beecher, Secretary; Mrs. Nettle Parrish, Asst.
Secretary; and Mrs. Louie Lessey, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks, al-
through we are scattered we have a good atten-
dance at meeting. We are all new beginners
and are trying to do all the good we can, as
there is much to be done by women in our day
who are ready and willing to do it, and to live
for the truth. We think the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT will be interesting in our meetings. We
would be pleased to have any of our sisters pay
us a visit and encourage us in our work.
	Wishing you success, I remain your sister in
the Gospel,				NETTIE PARRISH.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

RICHMOND.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take pleasure in giving you an account of
a meeting held here by the Primary Associa-
tion of this ward, at which Sisters Presendia
L. Kimball and Zina D. Young were present.
The house was well filled with children and
their parents.
	The first part of the meeting was occupied
by the children. After the programme had
been carried out the sisters addressed the
children, giving them wise counsel and good
instruction in simple language which they
could understand. It pleased them when they
were told that these sisters were wives of the
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime. Both
had the Spirit of God with them, and all en-
joyed the influence of the same.
	The late Bro. A. C. Brower was present and
spoke well, it being the last meeting he attend-
ed here. The day was one never to be forgot-
ten by the Saints in Richmond.
	I trust that we may have many more of the
same kind, and that these noble sisters may
live to attend many Primaries, where they will
impart to the youth of Zion the principles of
the everlasting Gospel.
	Wishing you success in your labors for the
EXPONENT, I remain.
		You sister in the Gospel,
				MAGGIE W. THOMPSON.
	August 18, 1884.

MILL CREEK WARD.

	The Fourth Annual Primary Meeting was
held May 23rd, 1884, in the Mill Creek Ward

[Column 2]
house. Meeting was called to order by Prest.
M. A. Birch, President of the fourth district-
Singing. Prayer by Bishop Hamilton. Sing-
ing. After which each district read the respec-
tive reports, also their programmes, which were
responded to very promptly. There were four
districts; two of them recited in the morning
and two in the afternoon. The exercises con-
sisted of songs, recitations, select readings, dia-
logues, etc. Sisters E. C. Clawson, L. A.
Wells, and E. Howard, from Salt Lake City,
were present.
	Sister Clawson said she was pleased with the
programme, and wished them always to remem-
ber good order, that being the first law of
heaven, and always to obey those who had au-
thority over them. Gave them many other
good instructions.
	Sister Wells said she was pleased to be with
us, and thought there were good instructions in
every recitation that had been given. Said the
children would profit very much by following
them out in life; hoped we would increase in
good works, that the Lord would bless us in so
doing.
	Sister Howard was pleased with all, hoped
the children would pay attention when spoken
to; wished all the children to help with the sing-
ing, and to be faithful in all that they under-
took to do. Made many other good remarks.
	Bishop Hamilton was much gratified in
meeting so many, and was delighted with the
proceedings of the day. Spoke of the many
privileges the children enjoyed now, which he
did not when he was a boy; gave the children
some good instructions.
	Counselor J. F. Snedaker was pleased with
what he had seen and heard; was glad to see
the children take so much interest; made other
good remarks and prayed the Lord to bless all.
Singing. Benediction by Bro. N. Bawden.
			MATILDA FORD, Secretary.
			MARY A. WINDER, Ass't. Sec.

PARIS, IDAHO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some few weeks since we were favored with
a visit from our beloved sister, Presendia L.
Kimball. A meeting of the Relief Society
was called, and some excellent instructions
were imparted.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
July 25th, 1884. After the opening exercises
President Julia Lindsay and her counselor,
Elizabeth Collins, made a few remarks in a
very humble and appreciative spirit, praying
the Spirit to be with us to help us onward,
that we might be fitted for our lives here and
hereafter, after which Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball was introduced to the sisters.
	Said she felt pleased to meet with the Relief
Society in Paris once more; told us she had
been in the Church forty-eight years, and
would not give her experience for all the gold
on the earth. "Joseph Smith stands at the
head of this dispensation and will be the first
to be resurrected." Spoke upon the principle
of plural marriage, exhorted the sisters to be
kind and charitable. Her calling had been to
help the poor, attend the sick and lay out the
dead; she had been among the richest and the
poorest of the Saints. Regretted not having
kept a history of her experience. She enjoyed
working in the Temple, it seemed as though
spirits of the good were there, and a halo of
love and comfort filled the Temple.
	Sister Kimball said the Relief Society was
first organized by Joseph Smith through a rev-
elation from God. His wife Emma was chosen
President. Emma was good to the poor, and
had many good qualities, and still she was suf-
fered to go astray, the speaker knew not why,
unless it was because she was of Judah, and it
was not time for that people to accept the Gos-
pel. Joseph was of Ephraim. Exhorted the
sisters not to speak evil of one another; should


never speak evil of any principle of their re-
ligion; much depends upon mothers in rearing
their children; they should never keep them
from Sunday Schools, nor any of their meet-
ings, but regard them as gifts from God and
train them to become good and noble. Said
we should store up grain, for the judgments of
God were coming upon the earth, and we must
be prepared if we would become saviors upon
Mt. Zion. Thought we should make our own
fashions and not follow those coming from Lon-
don, Paris and from Babylon. She knew the
trial of living with an apostate husband, her
first husband apostatized and took her eldest
son with him, but she had one son she thought
a gift from God. "We must put our trust in
God. When a woman enters into the celes-
tial order of marriage she takes the first step
toward redemption from the fall." Hoped we
would all meet behind the veil.
	Sister Margret Innes thought it a feast to
listen to the voice of her sisters; she felt encour-
aged and more determined to press forward.
	Brother Lindsay spoke for a short time, said
every one would have to work out their own
salvation. Prayed that Sister Kimball might
have strength to perform her labors.
	Prest. Julia Lindsay felt thankful to her
Heavenly Father and to the sisters for the good
meeting we had enjoyed. Wanted the Primary
Associations to meet with us at 3 o'clock; would
like the children to be prepared with a few
songs and recitations, so that Sister Kimball
could see how they were progressing. Hoped
the mothers would all meet with them. Was
looking forward to a reunion of all the socie-
ties of the Stake when the new tabernacle
would be finished. Prayed God to bless them
all.
	Meeting was adjourned sine die. Singing
and benediction.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, President,
			ELLA RICH, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


[Column 1]
PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]

	Mrs. Sessions says in her journal, "As soon
as my husband's father learned that we had
moved into a new house he came and wanted
us to take them (his wife and himself) to live
with us. The old lady was not able to stand
on her feet, but had to be moved in a chair on
wheels; she remained with us while she lived,
four or five years; during all that time never
straightened nor turned herself in bed once. She
was a very large, heavy woman, and I had to
lift and move her around or wheel her from
room to room. One day I was moving her and
my arm, slipped from the chair and caught
my elbow between the slats, which pulled the
elbow cap out of place. The pain was very
great, but when mother Sessions asked if she
had hurt me, I said I guessed not; with help I
seated the old lady and then went into my
front room where I had a girl sewing for me,
told her to take hold of my hand and hold it
still, and let me pull back and straighten my arm;
she did so and I pushed it into place, and put
my arm in a sling, in which I had to keep it
for some weeks. When father came home he
wished to know what ailed my arm, I told him
rheumatism or something else."
	This little incident shows the fortitude of
Mrs. Sessions and also the inherent tact and
native skill she possessed to enable her to set
her own arm properly. No doubt she would
have excelled as a physician and surgeon, had
she had the opportunity of studying in the pro-
<l surgeon,="" had="" she="" had-theppportuqity="" ofstudying.="" in="" ,fhe="" pror="" fessiom="" -="" '="" "="" ;="" another="" point="" we="" prostnot="" lose="" sight="" of,="" her="" noble="" self-sacfificesher="" wppld="" not="" let="" the="" old="" lady="" know="" was="" hurt="" lest="" it="" should="" wound="" feelings.="" if="" wp.cpuld="" always="" be="" as="" tqught-="" fulof="" others="" what="" a,happy,="" worjd="" this="" would="" he.="" a="" n.="" iu.="" l-="" father="" sessions="" lived="" one="" year="" after="" death="" of="" his="" aged="" wife="" and="" companion;="" his,="" de-="" parture="" was.="" very="" singular="" manner,he.went="" to="" neighbor’s="" house="" diedjln="" his.chair="" brought="" home="" a-corpse.="" “we="" bought="" 200,acres="" land,="" my="" husband="" helped="" build="" -mill="" there;="" after-="" wards="" purchased="" mill.”="" both="" mr;="" mrs-="" must="" have="" worked="" hard,="" for="" says="" continued="" practice="" midwifery="" regularly,="" day="" or="" night,="" rain="" shine,="" some-="" times="" going="" twenty="" miles="" oh="" horseback="" night’over="" those="" lonely="" roads.="" mrs.="" sessions'="" eecond="" child,="" son,="" sylvanus,="" wa3="" bom="" june="" 3,1816,="" hereldest="" daughter,="" sylvia="" p.,="" born="" july="" hist;="" 1818.="" daugh-="" ter,="" also="" eldest="" son="" peregrine,="" shall="" something="" say="" later="" on="" history="" mother="" they="" united="" with="" churclf="" at="" early="" period="" its="" history,and="" their="" lives="" are="" interwoven="" closely="" wilh="" that.of="" venerable="" mother.="" every="" thing="" prospered="" mr,="" nnd="" grew="" rich="" worldly="" goods,="" hut="" still="" pursued="" even="" tenor="" way,="" new="" england="" farmers="" usually="" do,="" living="" plain="" unpretentious="" styleafter="" manner="" called="" “comfortable”="" country="" homes="" eastern="" states.="" possessing="" considerable="" relig-="" iotis="" element="" her-="" character,="" herself="" of-the="" established="" churches,="" be-="" lieved="" fair="" way="" saved.="" dur-,="" ing="" the-period="" prosperity="" sev-="" eral="" ether="" children="" were="" born;="" them,a="" ter="" anna;="" march="" 21="" 1820,="" lived1,="" only="" three="" years,="" dying="" an="" age="" when="" child-:="" ren="" most="" attractive.="" david="" third="" may="" 9t="" 1823.="" is="" ithe="" present="" time="" will="" alluded="" again="" course="" sketch="" mother’s="" life.="" 15,1825,="" daughter="" bom.="" to.="" them="" anna="" remem-="" brance="" little="" who="" died,="" leaving="" hearts="" so="" stricken="" grief.="" just="" long="" enongh="" to;="" endear="" &11="" and-then="" passed="" away-="" like;="" fading="" summer="" flower.="" died="" august'.="" 5,1832,="" september="" 15="" same="" second="" bon="" sylvanus="" was:="" down="" carried="" away="" silent="" grave.="" he="" useful="" parents="" made="" .'sad="" their'="" part="" these="" tw&="" their’="" dear="" ones.="" alii="" gust="" 1,1829,="" whom="" named="" bartlett,="" until="" next="" january;="" that="" seven="" which="" .been="" living,="" elders="" church="" glad="" tidings="" ol="" salvation="" them,="" “the="" ushering="" dispensation.”="" 183.4="" .that="" .the="" gos="" pel="" .was="" state="" maine,'and="" 2,="" 1834,="" baptized="" by="" elder="" daniel="" bean="" into="" jesus="" christ="" tatter-day="" gaints.="" rejoiced="" in.="" tiding3="" received="" fhat="" pro-="" phet="" been,="" raised="" up="" receive="" light'knowl-="" edge="" revelation,="" people="" might="" fed="" bread,="" jifer="" ,.="" many="" testjmobies="" given="" tb="" thfera="" and’="" manifestations="" healing="" of.="" sick="" gifts="" gospel.="" .spirit="" ‘="" gather-="" rested="" upon="" them,and="" began="" thinking,="" uniting="" themselves="" body="" saint3="" the.="" centre="" stake="" .zign.="" sold="" farm,="" theif'uiill="" other="" interests="" accu-="" mulated="" during="" years="" diligent-="" ly="" labored="" together="" prepara-="" tion="" leave="" native;="" s.tatenncfcgcrto'zion;="" thebstacles="" difficulties="" overcome="" order="" accomplish="" object;="" but="" equal="" to1="" occasion="" all="" arranged="" property="" disposed="" pf="" previous="" departure.-="" 1837="" fook="" line="" march,="" behind="" childhood,="" place="" because="" land="" their'1="" nativity,="" well="" pleasant="" associations,="" contained="" graves="" children‘="" parents.="" their-="" intention="" go="" missouri,="" then="" gathering="" saints;="" thither="" company="" journeyed,="" father,="" mbther,="" children.="" fall="" arriving="" missouri="" ses-="" sions="" born,="" november="" 14,="" 837.="" during.their="" fetay="" peregrine="" vyas="" married,="" lucina.-------and="" young’="" peo-="" ’="" le="" chijd="" them.="" .eldest="" ,="" aughter,="" sylvia,="" married="" while="" there="" windsor="" lyon.="" driven="" out="" thai-state="" time.of="" per-;.,="" secution="" coldest="" weather="" winter,="" freezing="" month="" february,="" every.="" hundreds="" did.-="" dreadful="" times'="" mobbings="" driv-="" ings.="" ’they="" started="" 15th="" febru-="" ary,="" child="" t="" :way="" sick;="" fifteen="" ;v="" months="" old.="" endured':!="" muefi.="" fatigue,;="" privation="" hardship="" 'upon'f="" thatj="" journey,="" .child="" sick,="" hatt;="" been="" driyep.="" frpm="" home.and="" subjected="" to,="" inclemency="" winter="" weather,="" and;="" fqr="" no="" offense,whatever="" against="" god="" man,expept="" r-="" shp-was="" member="" mormon="" 0nurch:="" believed="" joseph="" smith="" a3="" prophet-pf="" .="">fession.
	Another point we must not lose sight of, her
noble self-sacrifice; she would not let the old
lady know she was hurt lest it should wound
her feelings. If we could always be as thought-
ful of others what a happy world this would
be.

[Column 2]
	Father Sessions lived one year after the
death of his aged wife and companion; his de-
parture was in a very singular manner, he went
to a neighbor's house and died in his chair and
was brought home a corpse.
	"We had bought 200 acres of land, and my
husband helped build a mill there. After-
wards we purchased the mill." Both Mr. and
Mrs. Sessions must have worked very hard, for
she says she continued to practice midwifery
regularly, day or night, rain or shine, some-
times going twenty miles on horseback in the
night over those lonely roads. Mrs. Sessions'
second child, another son, Sylvanus, was born
June 3, 1816, and her eldest daughter, Sylvia
P., was born July 31st, 1818. Of this daugh-
ter, and also the eldest son Peregrine, we shall
have something to say later on in the history
of Mother Sessions, as they united with the
Church at a very early period of its history, and
their lives are interwoven closely with that of
their venerable mother.
	Everything prospered with Mr. and Mrs.
Sessions and they grew rich in worldly goods,
but still pursued the even tenor of their way,
as New England farmers usually do, living on
year after year in a plain and unpretentious
style, after the manner called "comfortable" in
the country homes of the Eastern States. Mrs.
Sessions possessing considerable of the relig-
ious element in her character, united herself
with one of the established churches, and be-
lieved she was in a fair way to be saved. Dur-
ing the period of their worldly prosperity sev-
eral other children were born to them, a daugh-
ter called Anna, born March 21, 1820, lived
only three years, dying at an age when child-
ren are most attractive. David the third son
was born May 9, 1823. This son is living at
the present time and will be alluded to again in
the course of the sketch of his mother's life.
March 15, 1825, another daughter was born to
them and they called her Anna in remem-
brance of little Anna who had died, leaving
their hearts so stricken with grief. This little
one lived just long enough to endear herself to
all their hearts and then passed away like the
fading of a summer flower. She died August
15, 1832, and September 15 of the same year
their second son Sylvanus was stricken down
and carried away to the silent grave. He was
of an age to be very useful to his parents and
it made a very sad wound in their hearts to
part with these two of their dear ones. Au-
gust 1, 1829, another son was born to them
whom they named Bartlett, this little one only
lived until the next January; so that of the
seven children which had been born to them
only three were living at the time when the
Elders of the Church carried the glad tidings
of salvation to them, "the ushering in of a new
dispensation."
	It was in the summer of 1834 that the Gos-
pel was carried to the State of Maine, and in
July 2, 1834, Mrs. Sessions was baptized by
Elder Daniel Bean into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. They rejoiced in
the glad tidings they had received that a pro-
phet had been raised up to receive light, knowl-
edge and revelation, that the people who would
receive it might be fed with the bread of life.
Many were the testimonies given to them and
manifestations in the healing of the sick and
the gifts of the Gospel. The spirit of gather-
ing rested upon them and they began thinking
of uniting themselves with the body of the
Saints in the centre stake of Zion. They sold
their farm, their mill and other interests accu-
mulated during the years they had so diligent-
ly labored together and made every prepara-
tion to leave their native state and go to Zion.
Many were the obstacles and difficulties that
had to be overcome in order to accomplish the
object; but they were equal to the occasion and
all was arranged and their property disposed
of previous to their departure. In 1837 they

[Column 3]
took up their line of march, leaving behind
them the home of their childhood, the place so
dear to them because it was the land of their
nativity, as well as many pleasant associations,
and it contained the graves of their children
and their parents. Their intention was to go
to Missouri, then the gathering place for the
Saints; thither the little company journeyed,
the father, the mother, and three children.
	The fall after arriving at Missouri Mrs. Ses-
sions had a daughter born, November 14,
1837. During their stay their son Peregrine was
married to Lucina ——— and the young peo-
ple had one child born to them. The eldest
daughter, Sylvia, was married while there to
Windsor Lyon. They were all driven out of
that state during the time of the Missouri per-
secution in the coldest weather of winter, in
the freezing month of February, leaving every
thing behind them as hundreds of others did
in those dreadful times of mobbings and driv-
ings. They started out on the 15th of Febru-
ary, and Mrs. Sessions carried her little child
all the way sick; this little one was just fifteen
months old. Mrs. Sessions says she endured
much fatigue, privation and hardship upon
that journey, her little child was sick, she had
been driven from her home and subjected to
the inclemency of the winter weather, and for
no offense whatever against God of man, except
that she was a member of the Mormon Church
and believed in Joseph Smith as a Prophet of
God.
	After wandering here and there seeking
shelter and protection as best they might, they
reached Illinois on the 2nd day of April and
camped on what is familiarly known to the
Saints as Bear Creek, where they remained for
one year.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA CITY, A. T. August 18th, 1884.

	Many times have I thought I would send
you a few notes concerning our home in the
sunny south, and as many times has that thief,
procrastination, got the better of my good reso-
lutions.
	We do not wish to feel nor to be thought out
of the world, if we are a long way off from our
northern friends, but wish to represent our-
selves among the rest of our brothers and sis-
ters. Ambition seems to be a thing of the
past, owing to the languid feeling produced by
the extreme heat of the past two months; for
all that the season has been unusually healthy
so far.
	Our Relief Society is in a good condition, the
only complaint being they cannot find enough
to do. The M. I. and Primary Associations
are discontinued during the warm weather.
Work will soon be recommenced on the Relief
Society Hall, which is now up to the square,
and is sixty-five feet long, by twenty-five wide.
The building will be ready for occupation
early this fall, and will be used for a dancing
hall and theatricals, as well as its original use
as a meeting house for the several associa-
tions. There is a general complaint of hard
times, but no worse here than elsewhere.
	We have just received the news of the mas-
sacre of four of our Mormon Elders in Tennes-
see, which has created a feeling of horror and
consternation in our community. Surely the
world is rapidly ripening in iniquity.
	The fruit is just perfect this season. It is
the verdict of all who know, that they never
saw finer fruit in California than is grown
here.
	A company will start north in a week or two
to attend October Conference, also to do some
work in the Temple at St. George.
	A board of directors has been chosen, and
subscriptions obtained for the establishment of
a co-operative mercantile institution, which,


before long, will, doubtless, be in a flourishing
condition. The EXPONENT, as ever, is a wel-
come visitor. Wishing you every success, I
subscribe myself,
			Very truly your sister,
							"CACTUS."


64	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ESSAY ON KINDNESS.

	Many hearts pine away in secret anguish for the want
of kindness. A word of kindness is a seed, which, when
dropped by chance, springs up a flower. A kind word
and a pleasant voice are gifts easy to give; be liberal
with them; they are worth more than money. Kind-
ness makes sunshine wherever it goes; it finds its way
into the hidden chambers of the heart and brings forth
golden treasures; how sweet are the affections of kind-
ness. We should be kind to one another. If we meet a
friend, greet him or her with kindness and a smile, and
never, by word or sign, cast a shadow on a happy heart,
or throw aside the smiles of joy that linger on a pleas-
ant countenance. When you are about your daily toil
you should wear a smile on your countenance and a
pleasant look, and speak kindly to your companions
and friends, then your associates will love you. There
is nothing like kindness in the world; it is the very prin-
ciple of love. Kindness is stored away in the breast like
rose leaves in a drawer, to sweeten every object around
them. Little drops of rain brighten the meadow, and
little acts of kindness brighten the world.
	We can conceive of nothing more attractive than a
person whose heart is filled with the spirit of kindness;
certainly nothing so embellishes human nature as the
practice of this virtue; and in no other person do we
find it more happily exemplified than in our Savior, who
while on earth went about doing good, and how true it
is that
		"A little word in kindness spoken,
			A motion or a tear,
		Has often healed the heart that's broken,
			And made a friend sincere."
							ELIZA A. WESTWORTH.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in Minersville, on the 11th of February, 1884,
of dropsy and lung disease, Eliza Jane Zobriskie, be-
loved wife of William Corbridge. She was born in
Provo, July 26th, 1853. She embraced the Gospel in
her youth, and strove to keep its precepts by being
truthful and exemplary in her daily life; an efficient
member of the Relief Society, an affectionate wife and
mother. During her long sickness she never complained
of her sufferings, but bore them with great fortitude
and resignation. Just before her death she requested
her husband and her father to ask God to release her
from her suffering. They replied that they could not
do it, for they wished her to live for the sake of her
children, of whom she had six, the youngest six months
old. She replied, they will be provided for, and if you
can't pray, I can, which she did in a loud voice, asking
the Father to release her from further suffering, and re-
ceive her spirit unto Himself. She soon after expired
in the full hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just.
	Thou blessed of God in Latter-day.
	Thy body now entombed in clay,
	But thy eternal spirit shines
	Among the blessed in realms divine.
			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We, The members of the Relief Society of Minersville,
unanimously adopt the following resolutions:
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst our beloved sister and friend,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we esteem her faithful
labors, and devotion to duty, as worthy the emulation
of us all.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on the
records of the Relief Society, and that we condole and
sympathize with the husband and children, relations
and friends in their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be presen-
ted to the family, also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
				MARY E. LIGHTNER,
				LYDIA BLACKBURN,	Committee.
				SUSAN ROBERTS,

	DIED, in Centerville, August 25th 1884, of inflamma-
tion of the bowels, Elizabeth Waddoups, aged sixty-
eight years surrounded by her husband and children.


﻿She embraced the Gospel in Coventry, Warwickshire,
England; immigrated to Utah 1868. She practiced mid-
wifery in her native land, and also here; was very suc-
cessful in her labors; she visited the sick much, was be-
loved by all for her kind and motherly ways, and was
a friend to everybody. Her mind was always searching
out to do good. Firm in every principle of the Gospel,
and loved to speak of the goodness of God. She took
an active part in the Relief Society, was President of
the teachers many years. She was truly a peacemaker
among her sex; had many noble qualities, was a true
Latter-day Saint, resigned to the will of the Lord, will-
ing to live, or go to her heavenly home. One of her
sons had just returned home a few weeks from a mission
to his native land.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting house
which was well filled. The casket containing the body
was covered with flowers, put there by loving hands,
some to represent a crown, and ripe grain, showing a
life well spent. By request Elder C. W. Pe[-]rose
preached the funeral discourse, followed by other
brethren.
	A long train of carriages followed the remains to the
grave. May she rest in peace till the resurrection morn.
											M. R.


[Column 1]
	Secretaries of Relief Society are notified to
send in semi-annual reports by the 15th of Sep-
tember.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annu-
al stake reports carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS,
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A

SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.

HOME PRODUCTIONS.

	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does no give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP." and accept no
other. If your grocery man does not have it tell him to
write to
				SMITH & CASE.
P. O. Box 504.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.

☞ Agent fo RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Bumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to,
☞ ADDRESS, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]
For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol.1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I
SPECIAL ATTENION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WORKS AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYES, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1884	No. 9.


CHILDREN OF LIGHT

BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

	[Written for the Y. L. M. I. A. at Fillmore, and in-
serted in their manuscript paper, "The Young Ladies'
Literary Companion."]

"WALK AS CHILDREN OF LIGHT."—EPH. 7.8.

Children of light, are ye slumbering, roaming?
	Where, where is the witness for God and His Son?
Christ in us, Christ for us, Christ risen, Christ coming;
	Are these but traditions? Is victory won?
Do we shrink from the scroll on His banner unfurl'd,
From the changeless "My Kingdom is not of this
	world."

There is battle—the foemen are marshall'd in order;
	Are we ready to stand, suffer, die at His word?
There are posts to be held by lone watcher and warder
	Enroll'd in the book of the wars of the Lord.
Are we numbered with those who count all things but
	loss,
For Christ and His glory, for Christ and His cross?

Spirit of God now revive us, restoring
	A witness of love, separation and might;
Illumine the world, let His children, adoring,
	Find warrior munition and strength for the fight.
Yea, lighten our darkness—dispersing the mist
Reveal the unsearchable riches of Christ.

For oh! there are heights of unclouded communion,
	And trophies of promise yet, yet to be won;
There are earnests of heaven in pilgrimage union,
	And well-springs of bliss still untasted, unknown
Who fully his charter, his birthright explores,
Who fathoms the deepness "all things are yours."

Child of the light, art thou hidden—abiding?
	Of the holy of holies the floors hast thou trod?
In the secret, the calm of Thy presence confiding,
	Is the home of thy soul in the shadow of God?
Thence none shall efface, nor can time disannul
His "ask and receive, that your joy may be full."

Art thou glad, day by day, for a quicken'd observing
	Of the hand that with skillfulness fashions thy path?
Of new loving-kindness, fresh pledges preserving
	In works pre-ordained for the proof of thy faith;
Omnipotence raising the soul when it faints
With the whispered "He keepeth the feet of His
	Saints."

Oh, now, by our hope, by the cross, by its guerdon!
	Let the glory of God on His ransom'd be seen.
Appointed to each is his service, his burden;
	Shall we swerve where the footsteps of Jesus have
		been?
No, Christ and eternity, this everymore
Be the watchword of lives which He died to restore.

So we take up the march, on to victory pressing,
	Flashing back the sun signals of guidance and cheer;
Reflecting the radiance of pardon and blessing,
	Living out the glad song-note, "Salvation is near."
Thus Father, thus Savior, thus Spirit of might,
Let us shine, love and walk as the children of light.
	Meadow, Sep. 12, 1884.


USEFULNESS VERSUS HAPPINESS.

	Realizing the great inportance of thorough
knowledge on a subject wherein thousands of
human lives are involved, too much cannot be
said concerning the qualification of women to
fill the important station of nurses, and the
still more responsible position of midwives.
No one can gainsay the adaptability by nature
of woman-to attend to her own sex. Then
let her qualify herself by proper education to
become that skillful and sympathizing attend-
ant.
	What a blessed boon to humanity that ig-
norance and superstition are being superceded


by enlightenment and knowledge. That suffer-
ing women shall no longer be, unavoidably,
subjected to the ignorant and unskillful manip-
ulations of illiterate and unskillful persons.
	In perusing the history of medicine from
the time of Hippocrates till the present we
can note the gradual, but sure progress made
by the branch of obstetrics which was for-
mally about the lower round in the ladder, this
practice being almost entirely in the hands of
uneducated women; but it has gradually ascend-
ed the scale of importance until at the pres-
ent time it is considered a science and art
greater than which there is none other, it
now being among the higher accomplishments
of many of our most brilliant stars in the gal-
axy of surgery and medicine.
	How often do physicians have occasion to ac-
knowledge the benefits bestowed upon their
patients by the skilful attention of trained
nurses? and vice versa, how often are prec-
ious lives sacrificed by ignorant and inexperi-
enced nurses assuming such weighty responsi-
bilities?
	Where are all of our ambitious women? ambi-
tious for usefulness I mean—you who have
within your souls an innate longing for a high-
er better and nobler life, who desire some other
hope, some other object and ambition than liv-
ing for self alone. Arouse yourselves from
the daily routine of eating, drinking, sleeping,
dressing, visiting, reading, attending balls or
theatres etc., by a little exertion endeavor to
crowd these occupations a little closer to-
gether and make room for something
grander and far more enjoyable for what can
in this life give to the honest a more delightful
sensation than the consciousness of doing
good to a fellow creature—of soothing the
throbbing head, of alleviating the pains and
aches of mortal bodies.
	Indeed how frequently can acute mental
anguish be allayed by the touch of a gentle
hand, and the sound of a voice solicitous and
kind, by assuring a sufferer there is at least
one on earth and one in heaven who is interest-
ed in her welfare.
	Come my sisters engage in this pursuit, or
in that which will elevate your existence to
lives of worth and usefulness.
	To those who have an inherent suitable-
ness to the study and practice of obstetrics
there is certainly no avocation more worthy of
their highest aspirations.
							E. R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

(Continued.)

	In describing the ferry over the Missouri
near the Pottawatamie village, he says, "A
heavy freshet had at this time swollen the
river to a width, as I should judge, of some-
thing like a mile and a half, and dashed past,
its fierce current rushing, gurgling and eddying
as if thrown from a mill race, or scriptural
fountain of the deep. Its aspect did not invite
the oxen to their duty, and the labor was to
force them to it. The driver's was the sought
after post of honor here; and sometimes, when
repeated failures have urged them to emula-
tion, I have seen the youths in stepping from
back to back of the struggling monsters, or
swimming in among battling hoofs, display

[Column 2]
feats of address and hardihood, that would
have made Franconi's or the Madrid bullring
vibrate with bravoes of applause. But in the
hours after hours that I have watched this
sport at the ferry side, I never heard an oath
or the language of quarrel, or knew it pro-
voke the least sign of ill feeling.
	"After the sorrowful word was given out to
halt, and make preparations for winter, a chief
labor became the making of hay; and with
every day-dawn brigades of mowers would take
up the march to their positions in chosen mead-
ows—a prettier sight than a charge of caval-
ry—as they laid their swarths, whole compan-
ies of scythes abreast."
	"When they set about building their winter
houses too, the Mormons went into quite con-
siderable timbering operations, and performed
desperate feats of carpentry.	*	*	It
was wonderful to notice the readiness with
which they turned their hands to woodcraft;
some of them, though I believe these had gen-
erally been bred carpenters, wheelwrights, or
more particularly boat builders, quite outdoing
the most notable voyageurs in the use of the
ax. One of these would fell a tree, strip off
its bark, cut and split up the trunk in piles of
planks, scantling, or shingles, make posts and
pins, and poles—everything almost of the
branches, and treat toil, from first to last, with
more sportive flourish than a schoolboy whit-
tling his shingle.
	"Inside the camp the chief labors were con-
fined to the women. From the moment, when
after the halt, the lines had been laid, the
springs were dug out and the ovens and fire-
places built, though the men still assumed to
set the guards and enforce the regulations of
police, the empire of the tented town was with
the better sex. They were the chief comfort-
ers of the severest sufferers, the kind nurses
who gave them in their sickness those dear at-
tentions with which pauperism is hardly poor,
and which the greatest wealth often fails to
buy. And they were a nation of wonderful
managers; they could hardly be called house-
wives in etymological strictness, but it was
plain they had once been such, and most dis-
tinguished ones. Their art availed them in
their changed affairs. With almost their en-
tire culinary materials limited to the milk of
their cows, some store of meal or flour and a
very few condiments, they brought their thou-
sand and one recipes into play with a success
that outdid for their families the miracle of the
Hebrew woman's cruse."
	As he says, we could "make butter on a
march by the dashing of the wagon, and so
nicely to calculate the working of harm in the
jolting heats," that as soon after camping as the
fire could be prepared the "the well-kneaded
loaf ' was ready for the bake kettle or reflector,
which commodities were well suited to the
wants and necessities during our camp life.
	"The first duty of the Mormon women was,
through all changes of place and fortune, to
keep alive the altar fire of home. Whatever
their manifold labors for the day, it was their
effort to complete them against the sacred hour
of evening fall. For by that time all the out-
workers, scouts, ferrymen or bridgemen, road-
makers, herdsmen, or hay-makers, had finished
their tasks and come into their rest.	*	*
But every day closed as every day began, with
an invocation of the Divine favor; without
which, indeed, no Mormon seemed to dare to
lay him down to rest. With the first shining


[Column 1]
of the stars laughter and loud talking hushed,
the neighbor went his way, you heard the last
hymn sung, and then the thousand-voiced mur-
mur of prayer was heard, like babbling water
falling down the hills.
	"There was no austerity, however, about the
religion of Mormonism. Their fasting and
penance, it is no jest to say, was altogether in-
voluntary. They made no merriment of that.
*	*	They had the sort of strong-
stomached faith that is still found embalmed
in sheltered spots of Catholic Italy and Spain.
*	*	It mixed itself up fearlessly
with the common transactions of their every
day life, and only to give liveliness and col-
or.
	"If any passages of life bear better than others
a double interpretation, they are adventures of
travel and of the field. What old persons call
discomforts and discouraging mishaps, are the
very elements to the young and sanguine of
what they are willing to term fun. The
Mormons took the young and hopeful side.
They could make sport and frolic of their trials
and often turn right sharp suffering into right
round laughter against themselves."	*	*
	August 20th. Horace mentions the choir of
singers meeting at Bro. Wm. Clayton's tent to
practice, also of a council being held that day;
among the rest was considered the propriety
of sending for goods and other things, by Bro.
Whitney who was preparing to go to St. Louis
for this purpose. On the 21st he wrote "Brigham
and Dr. Richards with Brother Kimball and
father spent the most of the forenoon at my
tent in talking over the affairs of the Church,
etc."
	The 22nd I well remember it being my 18th
birthday. That day Horace wrote a letter of
exhortation and advice left by my father to his
family to be read to them that evening as he,
with President B. Young, W. Richards and
one or two others, went over the river to hold
meetings next day it being Sunday. The same
day Horace mentions the following event.
	One night while the brethren were encamped
in the woods on the route to Leavenworth, a
terrible storm or hurricane arose, which sur-
passed anything of the kind within the memo-
ry of the inhabitants.
	But what supprised them all was that al-
though showers of limbs of trees were con-
stantly falling around them, the space within
which they were encamped, was in perfect
calmness and security."	*	*	*	*
	"A man by the name of Griffin called and
brought intelligence from Bro. Miller's camp.
He related to us an anecdote concerning two
of the brethren who went out on mules armed
and equipped as a kind of a scouting party
were surprised by a party of Indians of the
Punkaw tribe who dragged them from their
mules, took from them their arms and were
about to confine them when one of the mules
suddenly turned and kicked one of the party
over—this circumstance distracting their atten-
tion afforded the men a chance to escape
which they quickly did afoot, leaving their
mules etc., behind in the hands of the Indians.
The brethren returned to their camp, and in
two days after their mules came in with their
saddles and bridles on—the reason was sup-
posed to be that they broke away from the
Indians and they could not retake them.
Brother Griffin also told us that eight chiefs
of the Punkaw tribe came to the Pawnee vil-
lage (where the brethren are encamped) to
smoke the "pipe of peace," with the Pawnees,
who were out on a hunting excursion. As they
did not return, after waiting for some time, the
Pawnee chief told Bro. Miller that they would
conduct him to a good place (one of the vil-
lages) to pass the winter, which they did, it
being fifty miles north on the route to Fort
Laramie. They went with them and found it
a beautiful place indeed, abounding in rushes.

[Column 2]
pea-vines, etc., etc. The Indians appeared to
be very friendly and offered them corn, or any-
thing else they wanted and told them they were
welcome to put up buildings and remain as
long as they chose."


66	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	Dear sister: Your letter of May 23rd was re-
ceived, for which I thank you kindly. I felt
quite refreshed in reading it, and of the dis-
courses at the dedication of the Temple. It
opened many ideas in my mind, and gave ad-
ditional light thereon, which was food for seri-
ous meditation.		*		*		*
	My feelings of late have been troubled great-
ly meditating on the murder of Elders Gibbs
and Berry. I cannot tell you my feelings. The
first news I received was in the EXPONENT. I
could scarcely find patience to wait till the
News came for further information of the affair.
I could not rest night nor day. I do sympa-
thize with the bereaved, I know what it is to part
with those whom you could have laid down
your life to have saved theirs. May our
Heavenly Father comfort them and bless
them; I feel for them that their martyred ones
are safe; they fell like valiant soldiers while on
duty at their post; thank God they fell with the
harness on.

Zion can boast her sons
	Whose trust is in the Lord:
Her prophets and her martyred ones
	Slain for the Savior's word.

	Will not Talmage, Edmunds, Cook, Hoar,
Smith, and others of the opposite party, rejoice
now to see the seeds they have sown sprouting
and growing. Who among all in the outside
world have done more to fan the flames of
mobocracy than the Smith Brothers of Lamoni,
and their followers? Joseph Smith went to
Washington desiring the governorship of Utah.
When one of his apostles was discussing here
on the Book of Mormon, Rev. Coovert told
him pretty plain about it, too. I do really
think if he had never been born it would have
been better for him. "The way of the trans-
gressor is hard."
	The sad case of our martyred Elders makes
me think of an expression used in a prayer of
Apostle F. D. Richards' in the Hall of Science,
Sheffield, England, in 1851; he stated, "The
blood of the martyrs, with Joseph and Hyrum,
have watered the tree of life with their blood,
and all the machinations of earth and hell
combined, cannot prevent its onward progress."
I have thought many times of this, for I
heard him speak it; he is a good man, and if I
had had a son given me I was intending to call
him Franklin.
	Sister Wells, I am very lonely here; I am
here by myself. You don't know how I feel
when I get a few lines of comfort from a
brother or sister. I go from home very seldom
down to the city; the city is full of amusements
for those who have an appetite for husks and
cobs; they are ripening fast for what awaits
them. I stay at home and read the Deseret
News and EXPONENT, and meditate thereon
and view matters over and over again; by so
doing I have been blest; my mind opened to di-
vine light and understanding that I would not
give it away for all Pittsburgh is worth. For
some time back my time has been thus spent.
I have received a peace of mind and joy that
I cannot express. I want to live my religion,
and I am striving to do so acceptably before
my Heavenly Father. I feel that this work is
taking deeper root among the nations of the
earth; the words spoken by the Priesthood are
piercing far deeper than ever day by day. May
heaven speed it on, may that day soon dawn

[Column 2]
when the blood of martyrs will be required o
this nation.
	There is one thing I notice, the servants of
Jesus Christ have nearly circumnagivated the
globe, have gone forth at God's bidding and
borne the heavenly banner aloft of the Gospel
of the kingdom, and no one fell a martyr for
the truth only those who have fallen under the
American flag.
	I am striving to do right; the instructions
given me by the Priesthood in the discourses
in the News are my guiding star, and I strive
to live in accordance with the same. I had set
my mind to come to Utah next spring—I have
thought many times I would see you soon, but
surroundings look very cloudy at present. My
mind was fixed on this and I shall not give up.
I am trying to do my part, praying my Father
to help me and open my way. My mind was
never more firmly set on anything than this;
my Father has brought me through many try-
ing scenes in a wonderful manner, for which I
can bear testimony of the divine power in my
behalf, which has been an astonishment to me,
but I know it is true; He is my Father still. I
shall lean upon him and try to do right. I need
your faith and prayers. You have mine.
	Please give my love to Sister H. M. Whit-
ney, that worthy mother in Israel. God bless
her and her family. I hope to see you before
long and shake hands with you both. Pray
for me.
	May God bless His faithful Israel everywhere,
and may it be my happy lot to gather home to
Zion soon, as it was my intention to on leaving
England, but circumstances prevented.
	May God bless you and yours, and myself
with you, is the earnest prayer of your
brother,			HENRY M. WILLRAHAM.


A HAPPY AFFAIR.

	On Tuesday, September 30, Miss Martha J.
Horne was united in marriage to Elder Joseph
S. Tingey; both of this city. Miss Horne was one
of the first girls who learned type setting here,
and set type for the EXPONENT from its first is-
sue. She made herself very proficient in the
art of type setting, and could compete with
any of the men in the office in this respect.
The bride is a very promising young woman; is
very much loved by her friends, and greatly
esteemed by all. She holds a prominent posi-
tion in the Y. L. M. I. A. She is the daughter
of Elder Joseph and M. Isabella Horne, both
widely and favorably known among the Lat-
ter-day Saints. The bridegroom is the son of
Bishop Tingey of the 17th Ward; he is a typo
in the Deseret News Office, and is a young
man in every way likely to make a good hus-
band.
	A reception was held at the residence of the
bride's parents in the evening, and the friends
were entertained in a very hospitable style. A
delicious repast, abounding with fruits, wed-
ding cake, ice cream and tempting delicacies,
was served to all the guests.
	Prest. John Taylor, Prest. George Q. Can-
non, Gen. Daniel H. Wells, Prest. A. M. Can-
non and ladies and many others were present,
and a whole bevy of young people. There
were many generous gifts bestowed, acompan-
ied by good wishes and congratulations. There
was some music by the young ladies, and a
speech by Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon.
	We tender our most sincere congratulations,
and would wish for the happy young couple
peace, prosperity and every blessing that the
most perfect union of heart and hand can
possibly bestow; long life and happiness here,
and a fulness of celestial glory hereafter.


Miss Nettie Carpenter, of New York, aged
sixteen, took the first prize in the violin class
at the Paris Conservatoire this year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 67


[Column 1]
	HELEN AND VIRGINIA

		[Continued.]
An hour later Helen strayed
Adown her garden path alone.
Soft moonlight wrapt the lonely scene,
	And heaven’s peace fell sweetly round;
Unuttered prayer reached God’s far throne;
	And calm and holy strength were found.

She turned and sought Virginia's side
Musing in troubled thought apart
Within the porch’s vine wreathed shade.
	“Virginia, should there come to you
The love, and proffer of a heart
	That you should know is pure and true,

“Accept it without fear or thought
Of hesitance for any cause.
You have had testimony of
	The wide world’s hollow faith and sin,
And you have learned God’s higher laws—
	Fear not to choose and live therein.

“For that pure love which we profess
Toward all creatures, o’en divides
Our own heart's treasures; we, too, lay
	Our Isaac on faith’s altar raised;
His power and love our strength provides;
	He gives, He takes—His name be praised!”

Fair, peaceful as the moonlit night
The wondrous charm that thrilled them through;
Pure, vast as heaven’s dark blue depth
	The faith surmounting bonds of earth,
And in that hour these spirits knew
	A fre’er height, a holier birth.

Union of soul, more sacred sweet
And firmer e’en than kindred ties,
For, faith and sacrifice combined
	Within the heart, the world without—
Thought's grandest aspirations rise
	And gird the human, all about.

Then, rising, Helen stooped to kiss
Virginia’s drooping, weeping face,
Tears of sweet joy and gratitude.
	“Good night, and banish all thy tears;
God keep us even by His grace
	Through blessed days and months and years.”

“Helen, I have been lonely; where
Have you been straying this fair night
And I not with you? Are you sad?”
	For gentle as one half adream
She came in silence in his sight,
	So pale, and yet so calm she seemed.

“Helen," the fear leaped to his lips—
“Have I aggrieved you, do you know
What I have striven against, and hid,
	And yet is truth? O Helen, speak!
Waiting, I’ve wavered to and fro,
	For love of you has made me weak.”

“And have you feared me more than God,
Have I e’er checked your upward path
That you should falter to reveal
	To me thoughts righteous, pure and good?
Would God not move me in His wrath
	If I ’gainst His commandments stood?

“And did you dream I did not see
The first faint thought that lit your eyes?
O love that’s true has quickest sight!
	And the heart hears in ev’ry tone.
That other thought; O love is wise
	And brave and swift, and gen’rous too.

“But dearer far than this same love,
Love of the Gospel—its reward.
And I would rather lose e’en yours
	Than see you yield a truth for mine;
Be loyal first unto thy Lord
	And trust this woman heart of mine.

"E'en now thine angel waits to bear
The tidings of this hour fulfilled;
The angel that bears up our prayers
	Before we close our eyes in sleep,
Awaits thy words—no longer still
	Within thy heart its burden keep.

"Go speak to her, and let us kneel
Not three divided, but as one."

[Column 2]
He sought, and brought Virginia, then,
	As they bowed down in evening prayer,
He said: “O God, Thy will be done!
	And help us each aright to bear

“Our mission in Thy work through life,
And may these hands linked thus to-night
E’er faithful prove in every deed.
	Be Thou our guide lest we should fail:
We thank Thee for that holy light
	Whereby our sight pierced through the veil

“Of ignorance, and saw beyond.
Establish so our lives that none
May blame Thy cause because of us;
	But truthful ones may search and find
That here Thy will not man’s is done
	To benefit all humankind.

“This night’s betrothal may we keep
Through life, death and eternity,
In love and fear and reverence.
	Bless Thou, Thy daughter Helen, here,
Accept her offering unto Thee,
	And may the Comforter be near

“Her side in ev’ry trying hour.
Bless Thou Virginia, may her feet
Ne’er falter in the chosen path;
	Fill her young years with wisdom’s light
That righteous works may make complete
	Her joy and mission in Thy sight.

“Bless, Thou, Thy servant, be his guide,
That those who with him seek Thy love
May never lose their trust in him;
	May we Thy faithful children be,
And earn below that place above
	Where we, O Lord, Thy face shall see.”


A GENTLE LADY'S LETTER

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	Dear friend:  This is a quiet Sunday just cool
enough to be pleasant, though the sun shines
brightly. I am going to pretend that I have
run over to see you and to chat a while with
you all.
	First, I wish to tell Mrs. Elizabeth Little
how much her "Day-dream" pleased me. I
should think you Mormon women would write
such stories often. Our papers are full of do-
mestic tales of "Love in a Cottage,"  "Love in
the Palace," "Love in the Attic." The highest,
best forms are pictured out and a sort of ro-
mantic glamor is thrown over all, that entices
the young and beguiles the older readers. I be-
lieve there are enough of pleasant, truly happy
domestic scenes among your family surround-
ings, which, if written up, would do much good
for your people.
	So Mrs. Newman denies a part of the Cin-
cinnati paper's report of her speech there? She
need not deny it, for the report was correct.
Some lady reporter must have been present, as
no gentlemen were admitted. I presume she
thought by excluding gentlemen she would
give out the impression that some awful doings
of the Mormons would be told. Too awfully
awful to tell in the presence of gentlemen. I
did not see that she told anything so dreadful,
however. To be sure she said, "there are no
homes in Utah, only kennels of reproduction,”
which, doubtless, six out of ten of the ladies
present, could have affirmed is the case gener-
ally in this part of the country. “Home,
sweet home. There is no place so dear to me
as home." Mark Twain said in reply, “Yes,
that’s the way it strikes me; mine got so dear I
could not pay, so I broke up and went to board-
ing."
	Home—children, a mother, love, pleasant
evenings around the fireside, a resting place for
the weary wanderer in after years, when child-
hood has passed and the cares of life have wear-
ied the heart. That is what makes a home;
and I believe there are as many among your
people as there are here. Homes where
	"Each unforgotten word,
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Calls back the heart which once it stirred,
		To childhood's happy home."

	Mrs. Hemans, who wrote these beautiful
lines, and so many others, is loved and hon-
ored. Her domestic surroundings were very
unpleasant, and we sympathise with her that
her life was saddened, but one might say that
had she been a Mormon and given another
wife to her husband, her children need not have
seemed so fatherless, nor would her life have
been more lonely, and her husband could have
been happy. According to the biography writ-
ten by L. M. Sigourney, Captain Hemans had
no great faults, only that "he grew jealous of
her writings." I suppose she cared more for
her literature than she did for her husband,
and neglected him for it, without giving him
any substitute for her love and companion-
ship.  He had a right to be jealous, any man
would be.
	Mormon women, of course I do not know
you personally, nor do I know but that you
are a "poor, deluded set of women, who are
down-trodden and unhappy and would be
thankful to have your chains broken," but I
cannot but believe you are as happy as the
general run of women. That you are intelli-
gent your letters prove. Mrs. Newman ac-
knowledged she got much of her information
from Ann Eliza, did she?  Ann Eliza!  The
woman who hated polygamy so, and dreaded
it continually, and then, as soon as divorced
from her first husband, who had no wife but
herself, she married a man who had a dozen
and more; then, after escaping from something
so terrible, she had to get a gentleman in the
East to write her lecture for her.
	The only particular outrage I can remember
that Ann Eliza mentioned in her lectures (I
heard her twice), was that Brigham, when he
prepared a house for her, placed the stairway
in the parlor instead of complying with her re-
quest to have it in the sitting room or kitchen.
That was awful! No man outside of Mormon-
ism would do such a thing. Aside--as they
say in the drama--The majority of men, outside
of Mormonism, do not place stairways at all,
for they do not build houses for their wives.
	The Tennessee massacre was sad and deplor-
able. Oh, I do not see why so many sad
events must mar the enjoyment of life. The
few short years of life should be spent in joy.
The Maker of the universe has fitted up such
a beautiful home for man--full of beauty, with
the bright skies overhead, the flowers and trees
in such endless varieties; the music of birds
and the fruits, to delight ear and taste; wonders
on every side to charm and amuse. Why can
not all unite in peace and praise to sing:  "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow." But it
seems as though such a condition cannot be
brought about; and, as Pope says, "To reason
right is to submit." He says also, I believe,
"Passions are the elements of life."
	But perhaps I am taking too much of your
time, so, for the present, I will say good:bye.
			With best wishes,
							EMILY SCOTT. 
	Ohio, August 24th, 1884.


Miss Flora Underwood is the newly appoint-
ed teller of the Granite National Bank, of
Quincy, Mass.
	Charlotte Smith is President of the Woman's
National Industrial League. She is employed
to gather statistics of female employments for
the Government Labor Bureau. She finds that
there are 125,000 bread-winning women in
New York city; of these 32,500 are now out of
employment. 30,000 are destiute. Twenty
thousand girls drop from the working ranks
into evil lives every year, mostly from the
class of shop-girls and saleswomen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	*	* Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months
$1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2, 50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
		VISIT TO THE COUNTRY
	In Company with Sister	Eliza R. S. Smith we
left the city on the southern  railway train
Thursday morning, September 11th.  At Provo
Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow joined our
party.  At Nephi we stopped long enough to
dine with Sister Pitchforth, then took Sanpete
Valley Railway for Fountain Green, where we
were most hospitably welcomed and entertained
at Bishop Johnson's.
	Friday morning at ten o'clock the Relief So
ciety Conference of that Stake convened in the
new brick meeting house, Sister M. A. Hyde
presiding. Prest. Peterson, with his wife and
a carriage load of ladies, had come from Eph-
raim to attend the sisters' Conference.  There
were a great many brethren present, and the re-
ports of the sisters from the different places
plainly showed that the Relief Society in that
county was in a flourishing condition, and the
sisters were doing a very excellent work; they
have given a great deal towards the Manti Tem-
ple, and are not weary in well doing.  They
have considerable money donated for a woolen
factory and the site has been selected.  The
sisters of Fountain Green furnished the money
to by the glass for their new meeting house.
Indeed it is wonderful how much has been ac
complished by the Relief Society in that one
Stake.  The meeting was addressed by Sisters
Jane Ann B[-]wn of Fayette, Caroline Madson
Mt. Pleasant, followed by Sister Eliza R. S. 
Smith, who gave much good advice, and re-
viewed the work which had been accomplished
by the Relief Society beginning without means.
She encouraged the sisters to persevere, to take
care of the poor, and urged them to live near to
the Lord.
	Prest. Peterson made some very pleasing and
interesting remarks, illustrating what she said
by very happy comparisons, which are always
impressive.
	Sister Hyde spoke in praise of the Brigham
Young Academy, and made other appropriate
remarks.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by
Coun. Sarah Ann Peterson, who dwelt upon the
storing of grain, and told what had been accom-
plished in that direction by gleaning, and also
spoke of the exertions made to build the woolen
mill, and referred to other important labors in
which she was interested.  Sister Polly Ann
Johnson of Fountain Green made a few remarks
in regard to the work of the sisters there, and
spoke of her long and varied experience in the
Church.  Sister M. W. Snow of St. George oc
cupied a short time in speaking upon spiritual
things; referred to the days of the Prophet Jos-
eph and the principle of plural marriage.  Sister
E. B. Wells spoke upon the subjects of education
and cultivation of talent.
	Sister Eliza R. S. SMith spoke on the growth

			[Column 2]
of infidelity, its causes, and the necessity of the
young being instructed in the principles of the
Gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit to preserve
them from evil influences and as a safeguard
against temptation and doubt.  Referred par-
ticularly to government and discipline in the
training of children and to the correct cultiva-
tion of the conscience; thought mothers should
have the highest and best possible education.
Pres'. Peterson and Bishop Yorgenson each oc-
cupied a short time, after which meeting ad-
journed.
	In the evening the young men of the brass
band came to Bishop Johnson's to serenade the
ladies, and were invited in to partake of refresh-
ments; played some popular music very credit-
ably, which was quite enlivening.  Sister Eliza
in behalf of the ladies, made a few remarks,
thanking them for the courtesy.
	The conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake was held Saturday morning, September
13, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding; reports
were given by the young lady presidents in a 
brief and comprehensive manner, which was
very creditable.  The young girls at Moroni re-
ported concerning a fair held by them, at which
they had clea[-]ed quite a little sum of money to-
wards starting a library.  They had four quilts
to donate to the Deseret Hospital.  After a few
remarks from the president, Miss Armstrong,
Sister Eliza delivered a most excellent address
to the young, in which she included everything
young girls should learn, and gave them mother-
ly advice to guide them in after life; after which
the remainder of the time was taken up by the
other visiting sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Association met
in conference, Mrs. Hannah Collard presiding.
There were 130 children present.  Exercises and
recitations were well rendered.  Some remarks
were made by Sister Heywood of Chester, Sis-
ter Eliza R. and others.  At the conclusion con-
ference adjourned for three months.
	The same evening we drove to Bishop Irons'
at Moroni, where we were most heartily wel-
comed.  Next morning attended the Sunday
School, and also Sabbath services at 2 p.m. El-
der John Chase preached an excellent disco[--]se.
In the eveing there was a meeting of the
young people, and the house was crowded; Mrs.
A. M. Hardy presided.
	Monday morning drove over to Mt. Pleasant,
where a general meeting was appointed for
eleven a.m., and Primary at half past three
p.m.  We dined at Bishop Madsen's, and the
same evening we drove to Spring City, where a
general meeting was held in the evening at
seven.
	Tuesday morning drove to Ephraim, accom-
panied by Bishop Allred and Counselor Larsen
and several ladies.  Dined at Prest. Peterson's,
met with the Relief Society at two and Primary
at half past four p.m., remaining there all night,
and spending a very pleasant evening with
Prest. Peterson and him amiable family.
	Wednesday morning the party drove over to
Manti, where a general meeting had been ap-
pointed at eleven.  Dined at Bro. Wareham's
and then went to visit the Temple, Bro. Folsom,
the architect, and also Prest. Ma[-]b[-]n, who re-
sides there, took great pains to take the party
through the building and explain it.
	This Temple being built in the mountain and
exalted above the hills gives it, to one tinctured
with sublime ideas, a sort of Scriptural signifi-
cance, and one cannot describe in words the feel-
ing of enthusiasm and awe it inspires in the
soul. It is a grand and magnificent structure,
and one that will "attract the gaze and wonder-
ing eyes of all that worship gloriously."  After
returning from the Temple we went direct to
the meeting house to the Primary, where the

			[Column 3]
children had already assembled.  The meeting
was a very interesting one, and indeed all the
meetings in the Stake had been very numer-
ously attended, and many brethren had taken
pains to be present.  The Bishops showed every
attention to the sisters, conveying the party
from place o place, and manifesting an in
terest in the organizations.  We returned to Eph-
raim and remained at Prest. Peterson's over night.
	Thursday morning early drove over to Wales,
and took the train for Nephi, where we arrived
barely in time to fill an appointment to meet
with the Relief Society.  The  meeting house, which
was well filled, Sister Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sister Eliza addressed the congregation upon the
duties and privileges, as well as labors devolving
upon Latter-day Saints, and exhorted all to dilli-
gence and faithfulness.  Sisters Wells and Snow
each spoke a few minutes.
	This was our last meeting on our visit south.
We dined at Bro. Bryan's with several of the
brethren and sisters of Nephi.  We enjoyed
ourselves very much while absent, and feel very
grateful to all who so kindly entertained us
while travelling in the interest of the L. D. S.
women's associations, and we reached home
Thursday evening, September 18th, in excellent
health and spirits, and very grateful that Sister
Eliza at eighty years of age had enjoyed the
journey so well, and had been able to speak in
every one of the sister's meetings.


ITEMS OF RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, September 19, commencing
at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Opened by singing, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Prayer by Counselor E. S. Taylor. Sing-
ing, "O, say what is truth," etc.
	President Horne made a few opening remarks,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells read the reports from the
several branches in the city and country, also
the complete report of all, after which Mrs. Ma-
rinda N. Hyde and Mrs. Presendia E. Kimball
each made a few interesting and spiritual re-
marks. President Horne spoke to the Secreta-
ries about having correct reports in time for the
Semi-Annual Stake Conference, and stated that
Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball would
giver the necessary instruction on some general
meeting day to the Secretaries, to aid them in
making out their reports.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Prayer by
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session opened with singing, "The
time is far spent." etc. Prayer by B. W. Smith.
Singing, "Hark, ye mortals." Mrs. M. A. E.
Watmough explained a piece of needle work she
had there on exhibition. It represented Joseph
relating his dream to his father and mother;  she
was over seventy years of age when she com-
menced it, and had worked it expressly for the
Logan Temple.
	The meeting was addressed by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. M. E. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carring-
ton and Mrs. Rebecca Jones. Each spoke a short
time giving good counsel, relating items of ex-
perience and exhorting the sisters to dilligence,
faithfulness and good works.
	Mrs. Annie T. Smoot spoke to the mothers
upon the training of children, and gave good,
sound practical advice; urged them to send the
children to the Primary.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some very pertinent
remarks, and spoke of the conference she had
attended a few days before in Ogden, and said a
great many bishops attended it, the President
of the Stake and many other brethren; there


was a large attendance of people. Mr. and Mrs.
Bancroft and Miss Bancroft of San Francisco
were present, and in the afternoon the Baptist
minister of Ogden was in the congregation.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks, gave a
brief sketch of the visit she had recently made
with Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Sister M. W.
Snow and Sister M. A. Hyde through Sanpete
Stake.
	Dr. Ellen B. Fergueon bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and spoke of the great
work to be done in temples, and the need of
careful preparation for that work; alluded to her
being the only representative in the Church of
her family, and her desire to be faithful and
worthy.
	Mrs. M. L. Morris spoke a few minutes--re-
ferred to what Dr. Ferguson had said, and en-
dorsed all that had been said.
	Mrs. H. T. King made some very interesting
remarks upon society, refinement and perfec-
tion. Mrs. Diana Reid bore a faithful testimony.
President Horne made concluding remarks. Re-
ferred to the different subjects the sisters had
spoken upon, and particularly exhorted mothers
in regard to teaching their children truthfulness,
honesty and obedience.
	Prest. Horne proposed that Mrs. Maria W.
Wilcox, who holds the position of Cor. Sec., be
appointed also Assistant Secretary. The mo-
tion was put and the vote was unanimous. Mrs.
Elizabeth Stayner was proposed as Recording
Secretary for the Relief Society of this Stake,
and was sustained by the conference to fill that
office. Mrs. M. A. E  Watmough made a few
remarks upon the government of children.
Singing Doxology, conference adjourned until
December. Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
				______
	Y. L. QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday, September 20, the young ladies'
conference was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, commencing at 2 p.m, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Joy to
the world." Prayer by Mrs. H. T. King. Sing-
ing, "We're not ashamed to own our Lord."
Minutes and reports were read and approved,
after which Prest. Freeze presented the resigna-
tion of her Counselor, Louie B. Felt. Said it
had taken her so by surprise she could not
choose a counselor until the Spirit of the Lord
dictated her in choosing one. Made some very
good remarks in regard to the duties of the
members, and gave much sound advice, es-
pecially with reference to the sisters visiting the
emigrant Saints after they arrive in Zion.
	Mrs. King addressed the meeting, her subject
was politeness and refinement of manner, love
for each other and integrity to the principles
of the Gospel.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp spoke of the best deport-
ment and example being most necessary in our
own homes; that if one were ill-natured the
Spirit of the Lord would not abide in the heart.
Thought fault finding ought to be wholly dis-
continued, and added, "Tearing down others
would never build us up."
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards made some interesting
remark upon the performance of duties, and
referred to the young mothers who had the
courage to come to meeting and bring their
babies with them. Spoke of her timidity in
standing up to speak in public.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook spoke upon humility
and the foolishness of pride, the value of time,
the cultivation of talents and the reading of
good books.
	Dr. Ellis Shipp spoke upon the blessing of at-
tending these meetings, and said, wealth and
power are great, but love is greater; love is God
like, "and a mild answer turneth away wrath.'
	Prest. Freeze made some very interesting re-
marks upon testimony, and said she had found
those who were willing to accept celestial mar-
riage were the young girls who were faithful in
attending these meetings; "The checked the
stream or stood in the way of the influence of
infidelity, which seemed to be rising and in-
creasing." Advised the officers to hold annual
meetings and invite visitors; gave other good ad-
vice. Mrs. Watmough introduced a book en-
titled "For Girls," suitable for young women,
and gave good advice.
	Conference adjourned for three months.  Choir
sang Doxology. Prayer by Dr. Maggie B.
Shipp.
				______

		Y. L. M. I. A. DAVIS STAKE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Quarter-
ly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of Davis Stake,
held at Kaysville meeting house, Sunday, Sep.
28th, 1884. Meeting convened at half past
eleven a.m., in order not to interfere with Sab-
bath School, Supt. Anson V. Call presiding.
Prest. Wilford Woodruff and Elder Junius F.
Wells, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B.
Pratt of this city, were present by invitation.
After the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes of previous conference, the early part of the
morning session was occupied in hearing verbal
reports from the several superintendents of the
Young Ladies' Associations, as follows: Mrs.
Josephine Wood, South Bountiful; Mrs. Jane
Holt, East Bountiful; Mrs. Mary R. Woolley,
Centerville; Miss Ethalie Miller, Farmington;
Mrs. Sarah A. Sheffield, Kaysville; Mrs. Martha
T. Hammond, South Hooper. These young
ladies gave very good reports of the condition of
their respective associations, and in a very
pleasing and creditable manner, expressing their
willingness to labor for the mutual good of all.
	Miss E. W. Smith, who presides over the Y.
L. M. I. A. of that Stake, made a few very ap-
propriate and suggestive remarks in a very
happy manner, and alluded to her great desire
to promote the best good of the young ladies
associated with her in the work of improve-
ment.
	Elder Wells then gave a short but very in-
teresting discourse, principally upon the benefits
and good results of these associations in prepar-
ing the youth of Zion to assist in building up
the Kingdom of God and proclaiming the Gos-
pel to the nations, and was followed by Elder B.
H. Roberts, who delivered an eloquent discourse,
speaking first of the opinion the world entertain
in regard to Mormonism flourishing upon igno-
rance, and the necessity of becoming intelligent,
in order to comprehend the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Alluded to what is termed the conflict
between science and religion, and gave Scriptur-
al authority to substantiate his statements.
	In the afternoon after singing, prayer and
singing, the sacrament was administered and
the general and local authorities of the Y. M.
and Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and voted
upon.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
each occupied a short time in speaking to the
young people, and President Wilford Woodruff
preached a very impressive sermon, calculated
to arouse the young to the importance of the
position they occupy in the Church, and inspire
them with zeal and energy in carrying out in
their lives the good teachings and instructions
they are constantly receiving. Urged them to
study and obtain knowledge, wisdom and under-
standing, to cultivate the Spirit of God and pre-
pare themselves to assist in the redemption and
gathering of Israel, and alluded to the vast mag-
nitude of the work yet to be done in temples for
the living and for the dead.
	The conference was numerouslly attended by
the young people of that Stake, and an excellent
spirit was manifested by all who too part in the
proceedings. Conference was adjourned for
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS
	We regret not b[-]ing able to continue the pen
sketches of Presendia L. Kimball and Patty Ses-
sions in this number on account of space.
	"Why We Practic[-] Plural Marriage" is the
telling title of a book by Helen Mar Whitney.
It contains many plain facts bearing upon the
subject as well as personal incidents and expe-
riences: and cannot fail to do good and will re-
move some prejudice.  We recommend it as being
well worth the price 25 ets., and believe it willnot
only give a correct idea of the principle of plu-
ral marriage to the stranger, but will also be a
good book to put into the hands of our young
people.  It is very well written and the typo-
graphical work is in the usual plain clear and
neat style of the Juvenile Instructer Office.
The bo[-]k can be purchased there, or at this
office, or at Mrs. Whitney's own house on the
north side of the Tithing Office Block facing
City Creek.
	Our readers will observe that this issue con-
tains two notices of classes in ob[-]tetrics, to
commence in this city shortly after conference.
It is to be hoped that those living in the country
towns and places will take advantage of these
excellent opportunities now afforded them of ob-
taining a knowledge of midwifery, that there
may be no lack whatever of skilled help in all
the places where there is need of such help.
	It is  painful fact that there is not competent
help of this kind in many localities where is is
needed.  Young women should enter this pro-
fession, and study with a view to do good to
their own sex, and thus benefit mankind.  It is
one of the most honorable professions in the
world, and one in which the greatest good can be
done. There can be nothing more desirable
to the human heart than to relieve suffering.
Dr. Pratt and Dr. Shipp have each of them
taken great pains to make themselves proficient
in medicine and surgery, have been diligent
and persevering notwithstanding adverse cir-
cumstances and difficulties to contend with have
been determined to succeed, and have accom-
plished a good work in this direction.
	These ladies are both graduates of the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and
are fully qualified to teach as well as practice.
They  had excellent success in teaching
heretofore, are very thorough in their work and
simplify to the understanding.
	A new book of nearly 600 pages and hand-
somely bound, recently published by the
Deseret News Company is entitled "Biography
Autobiography and Family Record of Lorenzo
Snow."  This book is from the gifted pen of
Eliza R. S. Smith, sister of the Apostle whose
record she has so ably written.  The book con-
tains steel engravings of Eliza and Lorenzo, the
author and the Apostle, also several of his dis-
courses and letters, and some of the b[--]t of Sis-
ter Eliza's poems. On[-] never before published
is an address to her brother and family on the
occasion of a grand reunion and anniversary
celebration, on the 7th, 8th and 9th of May last.
To make a complete notice of this book would
require more time to read it than we have yet
given to it, but hastily glancing over it, it seems
the most elaborate and perfect book of the kind
we have ever seen, and must be a great satisfac-
tion to the family.  The author says the book
"has been written as a tribute of sisterly affec-
tion, and as a token of sincere respect to his
family," and certainly it is a worthy and beau-
tiful tribute.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER OP CONDOLENCE.
Pima, Graham Co., A. T., Sep. 15,1881.
DEAR SISTER CONDOR:
	We, the undersigned, having heard of your
reat affliction and sorrow in the wound you re-
ceived and the loss of your two sons, who were
assassinated by a ruthless mob before your own
eyes, to say that we truly sympathize and con-
dole with you does not begin to express our
thoughts and feelings. Our prayers ascend for
you, dear sister, that God will console and com-
[-]ort you in this most sore and bitter ordeal that
has come upon you for presuming to worship
God according to the dictates of your own con-
science. Can it be possible that in this boasted
land of Liberty such high handed murder
will be tolerated? Dear lady, the Constitution
so dear and sacred to every true lover of liberty
has been violated, and the escutcheon of our
once free and happy country stained with the
blood of martyrs for the truth of God, and if
there is no justice granted you in the land of
your birth, appeal your case to the Courts above;
there you will receive retribution upon the
heads of those who have so cruelly pierced
your bleeding heart with wounds that cannot
be healed.
	Dear Sister Condor, we wish you to know and
the world to know, and ask angels to bear re-
cord on earth and in heaven, that we solemnly
protest and condemn such lawless outrage and
cold blooded murder as was committed upon
Elders Gibbs and Berry and the Condor family.
Yes, dear lady, in this proud nation where the
dear old flag still waves as a beacon light to all
nations to come to the “land of the free,” where
the Constitution, if held inviolate, will never
permit any outrage, or oppression upon any of
her subjects. Yes, fair Columbia has been the
mother of the oppressed of all nations. How is
if, to-day? Shall we publish it? Shall we bear
record to God, angels and patriots, who bled and
died to bequeathe to us that heaven-born boon,
liberty, that in this fair-famed, laud of freedom
the catalogue of crime is full? while the blood of
innocence cries from the ground for redress, ful-
filling the remarkable vision of the ancient
Apostle, recorded in Rev. 6th chapter, 9th and
10th verses, where he saw the souls of them
that were slain for the word of God and the tes-
timony which they held, crying under the altar,
“How long, O Lord, holy and true and right-
eous, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood
upon those who dwell upon the earth."
	May this console, you is the prayer of your de-
voted sisters, Cyrena Merrill, Mary L. Ransom,
Lucinda Gustafson,. Ruth McBride, Rhoda.E.
Foster, Josephine Rogers, Matilda Maxam,
Janetta A Ferrla, Sarah Ann Gale, Louisa
Johnson, Sarah Burns, Ellen J. Larson,
	WILLMIRTH EAST.


PRIMARY FAIR AND CONFERENCE.

 Upon entering the building where the fair
was held in Bountiful, and viewing the various
articles, useful and beautiful, made by the child-
ren of Davis County, from four to fifteen years
of age, a feeling of delighted admiration was ex-
perienced. The next thought was to wonder
how the enemies of good, works can bring their
lips and their pens to say that the children
of the Latter-day Saints are wanting in intelli-
gence, and that, they are not instructed in those
thing which will tend to develop in their na-
tures manliness and virtue, womanliness and
parity. If “idleness is the parent of vic,” in-
dustry must be its opposite. And how indus-
trious the little folks in Davis County most have,
been to have accomplished all this!
Besides a number of finished quilts, some of
them really handsome, and all good, there was a
great variety of patch-work, neatly done, mostly
by very little girls. There were infant aprons
and underclothes, made by girls very young,and
the hand sewing upon them so neat and strong,
that it seemed wonderful. Stockings, mittens,
wristlets, card cases, pin cushions, iron holders,
lace work of different kinds, shell work, carpets
and rugs, mottoes, artificial flowers, ornamental
grasses, doll dresses, drawings and colored
pictures, maps of Utah and other portions of
America, bread, butter, fruits vegetables, screen
doors, plow, upholetered sofa, forceps cut from a
single piece of wood, adobies, mats, and other
varieties of work, all done by little boys and
girls, in a style that would do credit, in many
cases, to older people.
	The two meetings held on Saturday, Septem-
ber 20th, beginning at ten a.m. and at two p.m.,
were exceedingly interesting. The programmes
were short, varied and in all respects excellent,
showing the unrivaled abilities of  the children
of Davis County and those who teach them.
Prominent among the latter are Sisters Rogers,
Hess, Dustin and Clark, and Misses Anna Clark
and Kate Chase.
	Sister Ann Dustin, President of the East
Bountiful branch of the Primary Association, is
the mother of Brother B. H. Roberts. Several
of the representative brethren of the county did
the children the honor to visit their fair and at-
tend their meeting, and to encourage them with
wise counsel and appropriate instructions More
praise is due to those brethren because of the
busy harvest time of the year in which the con-
ference was held. There was talk among the
presiding sisters of changing the time another
season.
	The only Bishop present was Brother Cheney
of Centerville. He said, in an address to the
congregation in the afternoon that he was there
because he felt that the little ones would need
looking after, that it would ba quite a labor, and
he might assist in it.
	This example might be followed by many of
our leading brethren to their own credit, and to
the good of their own families.
	Ten branches of the Primaries were repre-
sented in the fair and in the conference, viz.,
North and South Centerville, North and South
Farmington, North and South Kaysville, South
Weber, and East, West and South Bountiful.
	Brother and Sister Rampton of Bountiful,
manifested goodness of heart and kind  hospital-
ity by entertaining a number of visitors, making
them glad with good things to eat, and furnish-
ing conveyances to and from the station at
Woods Cross.
	The good order and good feeling which pre-
vailed everywhere, tended to awaken thoughts
of a most pleasing nature, while beholding such
unmistakable evidence of the progress of the
youth of Zion, and the lips are led by the heart
to say, “Our boys and glris, God Bless them!"
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	S.K. GREENE,
	M.W. WILCOX.
	Visitors from Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS
	My dear sisters, I take a great pleasure in
writing a few lines to you by the dictation of
the Spirit of God.  I have thought for some
time that I would like to write a few lines to
the girls, and I hope that I will write  that which will
sink deep into the hearts of the young, for I
feel that it is a very important subject to talk
upon in our meetings, and that is, Pride and
Dress and following after the style of the out-
side world, although you may think that there
[Column 2]
has been enough said on that subject.  I some-
times think that I will never say any more
about it, but it seems when I am dictated to
talk about it that it is right that we should
teach the young these things, that they may
prepare themselves for greater things, for He
has called us from Babylon that we may not
partake of her sins and share not in her
plagues; but I think, when I look around and
see the way the daughters of Zion pattern after
the world, that we are not much better, and I
know that it is grievous, in the sight of God
the way His daughters dress and spend their
time in things that are leading their minds
from that which will be of more use to them
in days to come.  I think our time is too pre-
cious to waste on these things; the Lord has
blessed us with our time to imporve every op-
portunity that we have in learning and doing
all the good we can; in learning to dress plain
and neat.  We can have nice dresses if we can
afford them without going beyond our means,
but we must use wisdom in making them neat
and plain.
	It tells us in the 3rd chapter of Isaiah that
our earrings and our bracelets and our differ-
ent suits of dresses will be taken away from us
in the last days.  Moreover the Lord saith be-
cause the daughters of Zion are haughty and
walk with stiff necks and vaunting eyes, walk-
ing and mincing as they go, the Lord says that
He will smite with a scab the crowns of the
heads of the daughters of Zion, and these will
surely come upon us if we do not take a differ-
ent course.  There are some of our older sis-
ters who are placed to teach us that do not set
very good examples before the young.  I think
we as presidents and counselors should set pat-
terns before the young that we would not be
ashamed of, and that we could talk to them on
things that we are not guilty of ourselves, and
then it will do more good.
	You must excuse me for taking this privi-
lege of writing to the EXPONENT for the first
time, wishing you success in your interesting
and valuable paper.
		H. M. K.
RELIEF SOCIETY FAIR AT COAL
	VILLE
On the 7th of August and the three follow-
ing days, a ladies fair was held in the Relief
Society's store, Caolville. under the manage-
ment of the Relief, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary Associations of Summit Stake.  The
proceeds thereof to be used for the purpose of
purchasing glass for the new stake meeting
house now in course of erection at Coalville.
	The opening ceremonies were conducted by
Prest. W. W. Cluff, who in a short and appro-
priate speech stated the objects of the fair, and
complimented the sisters upon the display of
articles before them, which, he said, evinced
great taste, skill and ability on the part of the
donors.
	The management of the fair was under the
immediate direction of the Stake Presidency
of the three associations, the tact and ability
with which it was conducted was shown in the
fact that at the close of the fair not a single
article remained unsold.
	At the inception o[-] the project it was thought
that if the sum of five hundred dollars could
be realized the originators would be satisfied;
the interest and zeal that was shown by all the
ladies interested in the project is forcibly shown
when the net proceeds exceed the contemplat-
ed amount of seven hundred dollars, the sum
actually realized being over twelve hundred
dollars.
	Great credit is due all the associations of
the Stake for the liberality of their contribu-
tions and for the interest manifested to make
the affair a success.  Many articles of great


merit were contributed, in fact too numerous
to draw special attention to. The array of
hand made bed quilts was simply immense;
consisting of every kind, style and pattern,
many of which must have taken weeks of pa-
tient application to make. The various kinds
of needle, crochet and knitting work; fancy
cushions, wax flowers and fruits, hearth rugs,
tidies, infant's dresses, and other useful articles
were well and creditably represented, and the
admiration which many of the articles elicited
cannot be otherwise than pleasing to those
whose interest and sympathies in and for the
fair and its object led them to liberally donate.
	Every ward in the Stake contributed more
or less to make the undertaking a success.
	A restaurant was opened in connection with
the fair which was liberally patronized, and
satisfaction given with the excellent manner in
which the cuisine department was conducted.
	The Coalville brass band rendered excellent
service in discoursing music at intervals
throughout the fair.
	At our Stake quarterly conference held on
the Sunday followering the fair, the efforts of
the sisters and the success that attended their
labors, were spoken commendably of, and a
vote of thanks tendered, them by the confer-
ence.
	On Friday evening a grand ball was held in
the County Court House under the manage-
ment of the sisters:  which was well attended
and a most enjoyable time was had.
	The sisters are highly complimented by all
for the success that has attended their labors,
and the result in strikingly illustrative of what
can be accomplished by united effort. If the
brethren of the Stake will labor as earnestly
and zealouslly as the sisters have done, it will
not be long ere our beautiful Stake Tabernacle
will be completed, when we will then have a
commodious and suitable place to hold our
quarterly Stake conference in without a large
portion of the gatherings upon those occasions
being under the necessity of occupying "stand-
ing seats" outside the meeting house.		B.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							      

_____________________________________________________________________________________


[Column 1]
	VISIT THROUGH SEVIER STAKE.

	On the morning of the 7th of July Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean, her counselors, Sisters
Jane Spencer and Thirza Thurber, and Sec.
C. A. Hunt, left Richfield en route for Gunni-
son, where they met Sisters M. I. Horne, Jane
S. Richards and E. S. Taylor, who had come
thus far on their way to visit Sevier Stake in
the interest of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A., and to attend their quarterly conference
at Richfield.  We spent the night at Gunnison,
where a meeting of the sisters was held, ad-
dressed by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also
from Richfield.
	The next day we took up our journey south,
visiting and holding meetings at Salina, Red-
mond and Aurora, arriving at Richfield on
the evening of the 9th.
	The next day was spent in rest, and in the
evening we attended a party gotten up by the
Presidents of the two societies, Sisters Eliza-
beth Ence and Dorcas Farnsworth.  They were
assisted by their counselors and members of
the societies and Y. L. A.  The hall was dec-
orated with evergreens, flags, banners, pictures,
etc., and presented a beautiful appearance.
Elderly persons, and those not wishing to join
in the dance, found comfortable seats on the
stand, it having been arranged for that pur-
pose, while younger persons, or any who felt
disposed, joined in the social dance.  However,
dancing was interspersed with songs, recitations
and a beautiful poem of welcome and good
wishes, addressed to the sisters of S. L., by Bro.
Wm. Morrison.
	The next morning, 11th July, the quarterly
conference convened, Prest. Elizabeth Bean

[Column 2]
presiding. Sisters Horne and Richards ad-
dressed the meeting, which was largely attend-
ed, and a spirit of thanks and rejoicing was
manifest.
	At 2 p.m. the meeting house was packed to
its utmost capacity.  Sisters Taylor and Horne
spoke to the sisters upon many subjects of in-
terest, and the Spirit of God rested upon them
to the edification of all.
	On the 12th the Y. L. and P. A. held their
conferences, which were well attended, and a
good spirit prevailed.  At 5 o'clock p.m., at a
a meeting of the Y. L. A. of Richfield, the
president having sent in a resignation, she was
released and a reorganization effected.
	Monday the journey south and east was re-
sumed, visiting and holding meetings at Cen-
tral, Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Glenwood.  At this point our party were all
very much disappointed in having to part with
Sister Taylor, who was summoned home by
telegraph on account of sickness in the fam-
ily.
	Tne next morning, the 16th, we started for
Grass Valley, arriving at Koosharem in the
afternoon, and holding two meetings.
	On the 17th proceeded to Rabbit Valley,
and from thence came to Fish Lake.
	The journey, though rough and tiresome,
was delightful to the eye. The hills and val-
leys were clothed in beautiful robes of green of
various shades, and dotted here and there with
trees and shrubbery.  The Lake is picturesque
and romantic, lying, as it does, in the tops of
the mountains, surrounded by trees and beau-
tiful, fragrant wild flowers.
	On the 19th and 20th attended the Stake
Conference of the Y. M. M. L. A.  President
Woodruff and Bro. Jos. A. West were present,
and an excellent time was enjoyed by all,there
being about 600 persons present.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting on
Saturday, the 19th, Prest. Woodruff called a
special meeting, in which he requested the sis-
ters to occupy the time.  Sisters Horne and
Richards spoke with power and eloquence, be-
ing led by the Spirit.
	Sunday evening came down to Burrville and
held meeting.
	Monday returned to Richfield, holding meet-
ing with the Primary at Glenwood as we came
through.  In all we held twenty-two meet-
ings.
	The next morning Sister Richards started
home, but Sister Horne, being ill and fatigued,
with so long and rough a journey, stayed a few
days longer to rest, and until her health should
be improved.  We all enjoyed our labors, and
felt that they had been attended with success.
	We here feel to tender our thanks to Bishop
J. L. Horne, Bros. Albert Hagley, Thomas
Butler, Jos. Parker and Thomas Ross Sen., for
furnishing conveyances for us, and their ser-
vices as teamsters, and likewise all others who
assisted or contributed to our comfort.
	Praying that God will bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, President,
			C. A. HUNT, Secretary.


A VOICE FROM MESA.
<fer;y why="" 1$'="" it,="" ;.th'at;the1="" wgrld.="" are,="" r:="" 22="" ?:&="" ,e="" ’v<="" div="">EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While sitting alone this lovely Sabbath
morning meditating upon the great and glori-
ous truths revealed in our holy religion, my
heart swells with joy and gratitude to me
Heavenly Father, that amongst the few, com-
paritively speaking, I have been the ahppy re-
cipient of the truths of the everlasting Gospel,
revealed through our beloved and martyred
Prophet, Joseph Smith, and I thought how
strange indeed--a marvelous work and a won
der. Why is it that the world are so blin


that they cannot see as we see?  But there are
none so blind as those who will not see.
	We certainly live in a great and important
age of the world, when the great preparatory
work is being performed, to prepare a people
for the great reign of rest spoken of by the
ancient and modern prophets; when Satan will
have no more power over the inhabitants of
the earth.  To accomplish this object mission-
aries are being sent to every nation under the
heavens, where they will receive them.  The
joyful tidings have gone forth that the ever-
lasting Gospel has again been restored, and the
inhabitants of the earth will have the oppor-
tunity to escape the terrible judgments and
calamities which shall immediately precede the
coming of the Savior.  This enrages Satan
and he endeavors to stir up the hearts of the
people to destroy those heralds of salvation
and mercy, who are sent among them to pro-
claim glad tidings of great joy to the sons and
daughters of men.
	How blind their eyes to the great and ster-
ling qualities of those men who go forth with
their lives in their hands, without purse or
scrip, to gather out and glean for the last time
those choice ones who are worthy of salvation.
The world do not know this people, nor do they
take much pains to find out anything in our
favor; if they did they would think differently
of us.  But what care we what their opinion is;
we are in the hands of the Lord, in Him is
our trust, and He will not fail us if we are
faithful to our duties, attend to our prayers,
and live up to every principle revealed for the
guidance of his people.  Without we do this
we have no promise of protection when times
come that shall try men’s souls.
							S. M. P.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    I feel to take up my pen in behalf of my
Father's work upon the earth. I feel that per-
secutions are beginning towards the Saints in
order to more fully unite them. I can see the
prophecies spoken of through God's prophets
being fulfilled, and though we live far from
Utah, we in this country have perhaps as much
to contend with, with the outside world, as the
people do in Utah. There are but few Latter-
day Saints here compared with the Gentiles,
who are exerting all power possible to perse-
cute and drive from their homes the people of
God; their threats are great, but I know they
can do no more than our Heavenly Father will
allow them to do.
    In the trials I am called upon to pass through
from time to time it is an exceeding great joy
to have the privilege of reading the EXPON-
ENT, which after taking for a while I cannot
do without. I feel comfort in trials to read the
words of my sisters who have likewise these
troubles to share. Though persecutions may
rage against this people, and we may be driven
hither and thither, I know by bearing all with
patience a reward awaits the just in heaven.
    Often, as I sit in reverie alone, my mind is
brought suddenly upon the commandments of
God, wherein if obeyed, lies a full exaltation
for all who will obey them; yet how few there
are who do obey every commandment given.
Therefore, I fully realize that persecutions are
needed to unite the Saints, that they may lay
by their follies and work the works of right-
eousness.
	I was struck with sorrow in reading an ac-
count of the two Elders who were martyred in
Tennessee, and have wondered how many
would be taken away in like manner. But
how thankful we should be to God that we
have been the recipients of His holy Gospel,
instead of the persecuters of His divine work.
    There are but a few of us in this settlement


far away in Arizona, but through obedience to
our Heavenly Father we hope to be able to en-
dure all trials that we may be called upon to
take part in.
	We have exemplary women as presidents of
the different associations, and I believe their
counsel and instructions are heeded.  We are
trying to live our religion and serve God.  Fi-
nancially we are doing pretty well, considering
the circumstances of the people.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor at our
homes; it is read with pleasure always.  With
a desire to serve the Almighty in word and in
deed, I remain a helper in His work, and desire
His most holy blessings on every true Latter-
day Saint.					S. D. G.
	Omer, Arizona, August 24, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	A tribute of sympathy and condolence to
President A. O. Smoot.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly
Father in His infinite wisdom to take from our
midst our beloved president, Sister Magaret T.
Smoot, and knowing that she has always given
us good counsel, exhorting us to works of
righteousness, and realizing that her record
has been that of a well spent life, worthy of
emulation,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we as a so-
ciety, deeply sympathize with her husband,
President A. O. Smoot, and his family in their
great loss, and pray that the Spirit of God may
comfort and sustain them, knowing that our
loss is her gain, and that she has passed away
in the sure hope of a glorious resurrection;
trusting that we may live true and faithful to
our covenants, and be worthy to meet her and
enjoy her society through the endless ages of
eternity.
	MARY S. HINDLEY,
	CHARLOTTA SHELLEY,
	ALICE GREENWOOD, Committee.
	ELLEN D. CLARKE,
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
American Fork, Sep. 4, 1884.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Anne Whitney, the sculptor, whose last work
is Harriet Martineau's statue, has a farm of
one hundred and seventy-five acres, over which
the White Mountain range towers, and through
which the Androscoggin runs, and which she
farms practically.
	Mary E. Shaffer, of New York, has secured
a patent for a new "non-inductive, electric ca-
ble;" Sue E. Smither, of Keen, Ky., has pat-
eted a "check-rein hook." Both these patent
have been granted during the week ending
Spet. 9, 1881.
	Miss Florence Finch, late of the Boston
Globe, is now on the editorial staff of the Troy
Telegraph. The Telegraph is to be congratu-
lated on the accession of an able editor who
brings scholarship and editorial experience to
her new post.
	Just now in the city of Mexico the subject
of woman's industries is one of considerable
interset, and an association, of which the Sen-
ora Rafaela Suarez is President, is actively en-
gaged in collecting and preparing and exhibit of
woman's work for the New Orleans Exposi-
tion.

	Bro. L. M. Olsen has been appointed agent
for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT at Ephraim,
Sanpete Co., and Sister Caroline C. Raleigh
for Bear Lake Stake.
	In the article from Sister S. M. Burgess pub-
lished in our paper, a mistake was made in
the date of her going to Kirtland; it should
have been 1834 instead of 1837.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at her residence, American Fork, August 24th,
1884, Margaret Cross Vowels, born at Liverpool, Eng-
land, June 15, 1810. Baptized by Elder James Wood
in the year 1847, at Hanley, Staffordshire.  Came to Salt
Lake City in 1850; was married to Brother Samuel Vow-
els July 24th, 1862, and removed to American Fork the
same year.
	She has been a faithful and efficient teacher in the
Relief Society for many years, and though she had been
ailing for a long time, her decease was very sudden, she
being in a neighbor's house the evening previous to her
death.  Many of the Relief Society assembled at her
house and followed in procession to the meeting house,
where funeral services were held.
	She leaves a husband, two sons and one daughter,
also a number of grandchildren and numerous friends
to mourn her loss.  She died as she had lived, a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, and in the sure hope of a glorious
resurrection with the just.
						EMMA FEATHERSTONE.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
				[line break]
	The following are Resolutions of Respect to our young
and much beloved sister, Catherine Stanifird, daughter
of John H. Stanifird and Mary Argyle, born in Bounti-
ful, Davis Co., Utah.  December 3rd, 1868.  Died in
Apache Co., Arizona, August 6th, 1884.
	Whereas, God in His divine wisdom has seen proper
to call from our midst to a higher sphere, one of our
members, who was greatly beloved by us all for her
kind and gentle spirit, her pure and virtuous life, her
faithful labors in our association, and many good quali-
ties of a Saint, which she possessed, and for the love
which we have for her, and the respect for her pa
rents,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we, as members of the
Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss of our beloved
sister and co-laborer in this association, and that we
condole with her parents in thier great loss, and that we
try to live so that we will meet our dear sister in the
resurrection of the just.
	And, Be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her parents, and that a copy be sent to
the EXPONENT for publication, and that they be spread
upon our record book.
				MARTHA M. PERKINS,
				LOTTIE WALKER,	Committee.
				CEDENIA WILLIS,
	Taylor, Apache Co.


[first column]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will begin her next term in midwifery on the 14th
of October next, the first Monday after the general
Conference. Her last class was large and very satisfac-
tory in its progress, and in the result of examina-
tions.
	Dr. Shipp offers fine inducements in the way of
thorough training.  Reasonable terms and free scholar-
ships.
	Those wishing further information should communi-
cate with her by letter.

			HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When th eLdaies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
	duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSES: SMITH & CASSE of Salt Lake City are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

			DAVID JAMES & CO.,
	TINNER, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS.

		Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the coutnry promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.
[second column]
				For Sale at this Office.
			BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 		-25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
						___

				Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Will open her fall class October 13th, 1881, in her
office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store, at 2 p.m.
	Terms five months, three lectures per week:
FEE,  $30.00.		BOOKS,  $13.50.
		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z. C. M. I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
			CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
		PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
		GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
			We carry a larger and more complete
	Stock than any house in the west.

				H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
		AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
						in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS.
		Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
	fant's Shoes.
				112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY.
	Spring and Summer Goods
		AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
			CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 13		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1884			No. 10.


<and'the fields="" and="" the="" gplden'grain="" pi="" ’mellow="" brown="" october,'="" ’="" and'thopurpla="" hills,="" tha="" furrow’d="" plain,="" bring1="" days="" so="" sad="" sober,="" '="" 1!="" r="" yet="" sigh,="" moan="" of="" falling="" leaf,="" ’totha="" pensive="" heart="" is="" a="" sweet="" relief.="" sunset="" grand="" in="" its="" flaming="" red,'="" lighting="" hills="" with="" wondrous,="" glowt="" though="" beauty="" summer="" has="" fled,="" and'the="" n,ulumn="" winds="" begin="" to="" biow;="" v="" frost="" nipped="" flow’rets'="" fair,="" that="" we="" nursed="" tended="" much="" care,="" hi-v="" -="" (jiha="" beautiful="" tines="" climbed="" high,="" ,;.="" hung="" graceful="" on="" wall="" tow’rj="" are="" changing="" their="" colors',="" forere="" they="" die,'="" thsybloom="" as="" bright="" the.gayest="" flow’r.="" l="" ‘’and="" wo="" gazo="" wonder.so="" prodd="" seem="" "while="" passing="" away="" like="" dream.="" qn="" reonn="" tain="" sido="" seen="" biasing="" sumach="" maples="" rod.="" host="" trees="" brilliant="" sheen,="" shimmer="" above="" where="" flow’rs="" lio="" dead;="" ahd="" plaintive="" volcd="" sobbing="" minglos="" tones="" breeze.="" what="" remaincth="" tell="" story="" radiant="" flowars="" days,.="" t="" ..="" yhen="" earth="" seem’d="" crown’d="" lq="" robes="" glory,="" song="" nature="" hymn="" praise,="" trembled="" along="" verdant="" land="" echoed="" afar="" ocean,="" strand?="" "why="" harvest="" rich="" golden="" sheaves,="" fruits="" garden="" orchards="" bring;="" lesson="" taught="" by="" leaves,.="" that,will="" live="" again="" breath="" of.="" spring;="" thongh="" sober.="" there’s="" beanty="" graco="" october.'="" '.emiee..<="" div="">ON THE FLY-LEAF OF HER BOOK

My Caroline: Of human flowers
	Thou art a sweet red rose;
A royal spirit, proud and fine,
	Within thy being glows.

A wealth of constancy and love
	Is in thy soul enshrined,
Yet rudeness' or injustice's touch
	In thee a thorn will find.

Forever may thy soul, as now,
	Glean joy and beauty where
The careless walk with empty hand
	Through fields that seem as bare.

Forever in my heart will live
	Thy tender gifts of thought,
Thy filial tributes sweet and pure
	In gentle silence brought. 

May heart as brave, as good and sweet,
	Thy coming life time guide,
Lest storms too rude thy strength assail
	When thou art from my side.

Bloom on; for beauty, worth and joy
	And all around thee yield
The spirit fragrance thou hast to 
	Thy mother's heart revealed. 
				HER MOTHER.  

	OCTOBER


[Column 1]

		MARIE DE MEDICIS.
	It was Sunday—a sweet quiet day in early
spring, when I visited the Cathedral at Cologne.
Without a gentle rain was falling, while with-
in was heard the clear, beautiful tones of the
grand organ, and the hushed sounds of the
footsteps of those who came to worship. I
stood by one of the large Corinthian pillars,
watching the people gather for service. Each
one who entered crossed  himself with the holy
water and bowed most reverentially to the
crucifix; some knelt on the cold stone floor
and whispered a prayer and others even bowed
their heads to the stones and kissed them.  I
felt a sort of pity for those poor souls strug-
gling in such dark idolatrous faith, and I could
not but doubt their sincerity.
	My attention was soon turned from the wor-
shipers to the decorations of this wonderful
edifice.  Beautiful colors were thrown upon
the cold, gray pillars and stones from the win-
dows of stained glass, where on each could be
seen, most beautifully portrayed, a Bible story.
	The windows of the south aisle especially at-
tracted me—painted by Fischer and Hellweger.
They were presented to the Cathedral by Lewis
the First of Bavaria, and are exceptionally
fine.
	While wandering through the different chap-
els, admiring the fine workmanship, and paus-
ing now and then to read an inscription which
might be cut in the stone in memory of some
venerable archbishop or monarch, whose re-
mains were buried there, the priest who guided
us startled me with the remark, "Beneath this
stone on which you are now standing lies the
heart of Marie de Medicis." I quickly moved
and looked upon the plain, worn stone.  No
name, no date, no inscription of any kind to
tell that here lies the heart of a queen—a
queen, who though unpopular with her people
and unhappy in her domestic life, must ever be
gratefully remembered by those who take in-
terest and delight in art, for the patronage and
influence she exercised for its promotion, and
for the many valuable works she gave to the
world.
	After leaving the church my mind still re-
verted to her, and I felt a longing desire to
learn more of her life than the history of my
school days had taught me—simply that she was
the wife of Henry the Fourth of France, and
at his death became regent—possessed of an
obstinate disposition, quarelled with her hus-
band, son and ministers; was finally compelled
by her minister, Richelieu, to leave France;
exiled from country, wanting life's necessaries
—in 1642 died at Cologne.  And this is all our
history tells us, but in wandering through the
galleries of the Louvre at Paris, and the Pinak
otck at Munich, may be seen the large, cele-
brated works of Rubens, illustrative of her
life, which were painted by her order and un-
der her supervision, to adorn the walls of the 
Luxembourg Palace, where, also, stands a
monument to her in the shape of this magnifi-
cent Palace itself and its most beautiful gardens
laid out in the old Renaissance style, and
adorned with fountains and statues, executed
by the finest sculptors of the age.  Hundreds
of people walk through these gardens daily,
enjoying the delightful shade of its grand old
trees, and the refreshing sounds and cooling ef-
fects of its beautiful fountains.  Who can help
but remember most gratefully, as he wanders
along the marble terraces, and beholds with
delight the wonderful arrangement of the gar-
dens, the one who caused them to be built?
	The Palace itself is a fine specimen of archi-
tecture, and is known as one of the best works
of the famous French architect Jacques De-
brosse.  Some of the finest avenues in Paris
were planned by Marie de Medicis, the principal

[Column 3]

one being Les Cours de la Raine.  Not to genius
alone should all homage be due, for many a
bright, intelligent soul has perished and passed
from earth without recognition, and many
more would have done so had it not been for
the influence of those in power; so to the pro-
moters of art as well as the artists themselves
are we indebted, and surely prominent among
these must ever stand the name of Marie de
Medicis.
	As one strolls through the narrow, crooked
streets of Cologne, occasionally may be seen,
cut above the doorway, the name of some re-
nowned person who had lived, or perhaps was
born or died there, and among these, above a
door of one of the finest buildings, is engraved
the name of Rubens, and directly opposite an
inscription saying, "Marie de Medicis died here
in exile." In life she was despised by her peo-
ple and banished from home.  No one then
thought her great or cared what she did; but
now she lives in glory in the minds of many,
and as the inscription above the door is read
we cannot but feel sorrow for the fate of the
proud, unhappy queen, forgetting her failings
while we thankfully recall to mind the good she
has done the world. 
	Thus many live unrecognized, uncared for,
but leave works behind to be adored.  Though
rejected in life, the grave often recieves honor
and reverence, teaching too often that one
must die to live. 				A. W. C.


A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA L. KIMBALT.

			Concluded.
	Sister Presendia is one of the most indus-
trious of women, performs all her own domestic 
labor, attends her garden, milks her cow, makes
butter, dries fruit, prepares her pickles and
preserves, and in fact does more house work
than most young healthful housekeepers.  So
well regulated and orderly are her habits and
arrangements that she finds time to assist the
sick and needy without neglecting home duties.
She has always been an early riser, and often
does what might be considered a moderate
day's work before some people are out of bed. 
	In the picture of Representative Women, Sis-
ter Presendia represents industry with the motto
of the bee hive, and is a good type of New
England women of the early part of the cen-
tury, and it certainly is in keeping with her 
character. She is intensely motherly, and
among a large number of ladies might be, and
has been, pointed out as possessing the most
remarkable motherly and benign face of all the
ladies present.
     During the years since she came in posses-
sion of the home mentioned, and which she has
ever since occupied, she has had a more even
and regular life than heretofore; her lines now
appear to be cast in pleasant places.  The
spiritual work she performs is admirably suited
to her, and she delights in blessing, comforting
and encouraging the daughters of Zion.
	A few years ago her son, Joseph S. Kimball,
was appointed Bishop of Meadowville and or-
dained to that office.  He was a very young
man to be appointed to so important a position,
but has ably and efficiently fulfilled the respon-
sibilities of his high and holy calling.
     In 1882 Sister Presendia made a visit to St.
George, where she officiated in the Temple for
many of her departed ancestors, being the


[first column]
eldest female relative of the family in the
Church, it is her privilege to take the initia-
tive in the female line.  They have a very ex-
tensive genealogical record, dating back to a
very early period in the history of Scotland,
as well as embracing the Huntingtons of Eng-
land, consequently the work will be a great one.
	Sister Presendia has traveled considerably
in the different Stakes of Zion, and has spoken
in hundreds of the sisters’ meetings.  She is
naturally an able and eloquent speaker, has a
good gift of language and a commanding and
dignified appearance.  At home, in her own
ward, and at the general meetings of women in
Salt Lake City, she is always ready, when
called upon, to bear her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and that Joseph Smith was a
Prophet of God, and also bearing the same tes-
timony concerning his successors, Brigham
Young and John Taylor.  She is especially
gifted in prayer, and at the time of the memor-
able mass-meeting of women in this city, she
was called upon and made an extempore prayer,
of which minutes were taken and it has been
published several times in different papers.  To
hear her, however, is more inspirational than
to read it in print, for her venerable appear-
ance and dignified bearing, pouring out her
heart in gratitude to God and interceding for
His blessing with the most sublime faith and
deep humility, are things that cannot fail to
have an effect upon even the unbeliever.  Her
prayer in the mass meeting of ladies in the Thea-
tre, Nov. 16th, 1878, was as follows:
	"She prayed that wisdom might inspire those
assembled together on that grand and solemn
occasion, that everything might be done for
the honor and glory of God.  That as God's
outstretched arm had carried His people
through many trials; He would be with them
now, that He would bless and protect them
through all trials and tribulations, that He
would remember in mercy this free country,
the President of the United States and its rul-
ers, also the governor and officers of each
State and Territory; that He would bless our
delegate to Congress, who was about to go to
Washington, that He would pour out His Holy
Spirit upon him, that He would uphold the
principle of celestial marriage which He had
revealed in these last days for the good of the
human family, notwithstanding the persecu-
tions of those who sought to overthrow it; that
He would strengthen Zion and bless the young
and rising generation, and bring peace unto
the valleys of the mountains.  She dedicated
the congregation to the Lord, prayed that an-
gels might guard them in this hour of trial,
and hasten the time when Zion should be re-
deemed, and all should be accomplished for
the living and the dead, even back to the time
when the Priesthood was taken from the
earth."
	Sister Presendia's birthday's are most usual-
ly celebrated by her friends gathering at her
house and bringing with them some tokens of
love and appreciation, and it resolves itself in-
to a meeting, where many expressions of affec-
tion and good feeling are given, and not unfre-
quently the gifts of the Gospel made manifest.
On her birthday, in 1882, there was a meeting
of this kind, at which time the ladies present-
ed her with a very handsome black satin cloak
lined with crimson plush, and robed in this
mantle she looked like a very queen.  It was
described by one who saw her on that occasion
like this:
	"If I could choose the picture which should
be historical, it should be as I have seen dfher—
standing, her grand figure becomingly wrapped
in a large circular cloak, a handsome, large
black bonnet shielding her venerable and be-
loved face from the falling flakes of snow.
Looking upon her I thought her the very pic-
ture of a Puritan exile, a revolutionary ances-
tress, and a Latter-day Saint veteran and
[second column]
pioneer. I shall always remember her thus; it
is an ineffaceable picture in my memory."
	At the time of the dedication of the Logan
Temple in May last Sister Presendia was called
among others acquainted with the labors of
those sacred edifices, to remain there for a time
and assist in officiating in the ordinances per-
taining to those holy places.  About the first
of September last Sister Presendia came home
for a few days to get everything in readiness,
that she might spend the winter laboring in
the Temple, and although her home work was
urgent and might have occupied all her time
to the exclusion of everything else, yet almost
every day she was out more or less of the time
administering to the sick.
	On the 7th of September, her 74th birthday,
there was quite a gathering of sisters at her
home to do her honor and celebrate the happy
occasion.  It was a meeting, so we are informed,
never to be forgotten by those who had the
pleasure of participating therein.
	September 19, Sister Presendia attended the
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake, and was called to  stand to ad-
dress the sisters.  She gave a graphic descrip-
tion of the work being done in the Temple, and
of the joy and satisfaction she felt in her labors
there, and said it had been her happy lot to en-
ter into every Temple that had been built in
this dispensation.  She urged those present to
live lives of purity and devotion to the Gospel,
to keep sacred and holy the covenants they had
made, that they might not fall short of the ex-
altation they had set out to obtain.  She dwelt
specially upon the order of celestial marriage,
and bore her testimony to the divinity of that
principle and exhorted all to beware how they
treated so exalted and precious a subject.  Her
words were impressive and she seemed to bring
with her the influence of the place where she
had been laboring.
	A few days later she returned to Logan to
renew her duties and labors in the Temple,
and there we will leave her for the present;
and what more fitting place or sweeter labor
could there be for one who has passed through
a life of sorrow and trial and has borne
all with the divine courage and heavenly
patience that is only given through humility
and prayer.  Of this heroic woman very little,
comparatively, can be written.  Her individu-
al experience, the peculiar circumstances
through which she has passed, the thorny paths
she has trod alone, with only God and angels
near, the temptations which have surrounded
her at times, and the struggles incident to hu-
man nature, which in her meekness she has
borne, and has endured through all and kept
her integrity and has remained steadfast and
faithful.  These things are recorded in the re-
cord on high; we cannot touch them, we can
only read them in outline as we do a picture.
	Sister Presendia has now reached nearly
three quarters of a century, and being of a
long-lived race may yet be able to labor in her
sphere and calling many years to come, to bless
and comfort many more of the daughters of
Zion, which we most sincerely hope may be her
happy lot, even that she may finish all she de-
sires to do for the living and the dead.
							E. B. W.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


							WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


﻿MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT.
				______

	Ever since the creation of the world there
have been opportunities to improve the mind.
We were not sent here to remain infants, but
power was given  us to obtain knowledge, and
with the help of our Heavenly Father we can
become so intelligent that we can associate with
God after our work is done in an acceptable
manner.
	While attending Primary Conference at
Mount Pleasant, last Sunday, I had the pleas-


ure of hearing Sister Hyde speak in tongues
and Sister Young interpreted.  She told the
children that many of them would be changed
in the twinkling of an eye, and be caught up
to meet the Savior.
	Do we as young ladies realize the great
amount of intelligence we will have to possess
to be enabled to do the work that is required
of us?  There never has been a time when
knowledge has not been appreciated, unless one
happened to get so far in advance of the peo-
ple surrounding him that they could not un-
derstand him; they will then ridicule and even
persecute people for claiming to know more
than the rest.  We find that this well illustrated
in the world to-day the people of the United
States ridiculed and abused the Saints for their
faith and belief in revelation, while some of
them now say, “This is a very sensible idea you
Mormons have, that God reveals all things for
your guidance, as it stands to reason that the
worst people now, are not the same as they were
in the days of Moses"
 Brigham Young did not have to lead the
people over the same ground that Moses led
the Egyptians, consequently the instructions
that were given to Moses would not do for
Brigham Young.  Can we as young ladies be
sufficiently thankful for the knowledge that we
have?  We know that God does reveal things
for the benefit of the Saints, and that the hum-
blest of us can ask, and if it is the will of the
Lord we can and do receive.  Therefore let us
follow the example of Solomon, and ask for
wisdom and pray that the Spirit of God may
always be with us to bring things to our minds
as we need them, and that we may improve
every opportunity to learn something that will
be of a benefit to us.
	There is not anything in nature that we
cannot learn a lesson from.  The bees and ants
teach us to be industrious; the flowers teach us
how to harmonize colors; but I think the most
beautiful lesson to be learnt is in their death
at the approach of winter, and their coming
forth in the spring in all their beauty and
freshness, reminding us of the resurrection of
the just.
 Girls, let us try and remember that it is the
Spirit of God, that is a testimony to us of the
truth of this work, and seek to be guided by
its holy voice so that we may never be deceived,
for we are told that Satan will have so much
power in the last days that if it were possible
he would deceive the very elect; and there will
be so many miracles wrought by the power of
the evil one that if there are any who do not
possess a good share of the Spirit they will be
turned from the truth.
	That we may have enough of the Spirit to
enable us to understand these things is the
earnest prayer of	S. Weilet.
Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies’ Journal,
Nephi.
—---


" Do you like bangs?" inquired Mrs. Snip of
Mr. Temple. "No, madam, I do not." "Oh,
indeed! you surprise me. Why not?" "Be-
cause my wife and two daughters play the
piano and are devoted to Wagner's music"-
Merchant Traveler.
	Elizabeth is a Buffalo girl about eight years
old.  When asked how far she had got in her
geography lesson, the little woman said, “We
are in the Alps now.  And what do you think!
The girls wear short red skirts and a sort of
green jacket, laced in front and behind, with
puffed sleeves.  I don't just remember what
kind of stockings they wear, but I think they
are blue." "Well!" exclaimed the paralyzed 
parent when she had recovered her breath,
"but where are the Alps, child?" "I don't 
know," was the response; "it doesn't say any-
thing about that."


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							      

_____________________________________________________________________________________


HELEN AND VIRGINIA.
		[Continued.]
	The wedding morn! No costly robes,
No throng of worldly votaries
Grouped for display, to scan, to talk;
	But, clothed as one dreams angels are,
In pure white robes 'mid mysteries
	Of holier life in spheres afar.

And there she learned from lips revered
Still greater truths of life and death;
And lesser joys of earth, like moths
	That wing their way to fatal light,
She saw were fleeting, were but breath,
	Consumed and lost to angels' sight.

Her bridal day! More sacred seemed
The privilege of earthly life,
A lesson, not a holiday.
	And this was home, in truth, at last
Her hime, and she an honored wife;
	Henceforth her duties here were cast.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
A fleeting year has passed and brought
A change to fair Virginia's face.
More gravely sweet, she seemed to watch
	Some looked for signal, seemed to stand
Where soon shall dawn that mystic space
	We call the better, holler land.

On fairest days, in Helen's care,
Virginia rode by stream and field,
Gathering all of health and strength
	That tend'rest, watchful love could glean,
That breezes fresh and sweet could yield,
	Down the long aisles through forests green.

Then these no more. All the wide world
Outside forgot, for in her room,
While loving watchers prayed,
	Long hours that grew to days went on;
And she, unnoting love or gloom,
	Lingered like light 'twixt night and dawn.

Alone, where mothers only go,
Nor even deepest love can reach,
The myst'ry that man ne'er knew;
	Where, for a time, 'twixt life and death
The veil's so thin that even speech
	Would rend it by its sudden breath.

Yet liveth on like wav'ring flame,
"Till, drawn by warring life and death,
Where in the whirlwind standeth God;
	His presence and compassion give
The thrill of strength to failing health,
	And turning back, the dying live.

So slowly drifts the frail boat back,
The pilgrim scarcely feels the shock
When grates the keel upon the shore;
	So friends who wait upon the strand
In silence watch it float and rock,
	Nor venture yet to lend the hand.

At last, as one from sleep she woke,
And recognition faintly crept.
Into the look, but wearily;
	And then as one who turns to go
She closed her eyes again and slept,
	That deep down sleep that mothers know.

Awhile, and then she woke again,
Her eyes a clear inquiry wore;
Though his glad look met one faint smile,
	One face she sought and missed, he knew:
"Helen," his voice glad tidings bore-
	"Helen, dear wife, she looks for you."

Then Helen came. O that blest smile,
"Twas heart to heart that understood,
"Twas greeting, joy and welcome back,
	But words were few, for silence bore
The sympathy of womanhood
	That needed for the time no more.

And then with rest came gently back
Remembrance of past vague alarms
Spoken in looks and not in words,
	And Helen understood, and smiled,
And brought in her own loving arms
	Virginia's precious infant child.

Its light weight resting on her arm,
The pathos of its wee, white face,
And the small, helpless, nesting form
Filled her with wonder as she gazed:

[Column 2]
Then living love leaped in its place,
	And the o'erflowing eyes she raised

Bore the glad light of motherhood,
Sense of possession, joy so deep,
Treasure so priceless, words wers stilled.
	And when the pale, sweet face she turned
Half bending o'er her babe asleep,
	Her heart its sweeteet love had learned.

Swift in the rays of this new bliss
Life gathered up its strength anew
To meet again familiar scenes.
	And when the day's warm glow was gone,
Virginia's couch they gently drew
	To face the sunset lighted lawn.

The groups of trees, each flower bed
And winding path were dear to her
As faces of long absent friends,
	And there dear Helen's children sought
The flowers that choicest, sweetest, were,
	And to her side the off'ring brought.

What tender messengers are these
That bear in silence such full store
Of the heart's purest, sweetest love;
	And never lovelier these appear
Than when within the sick room's door
	They bring pure nature's  life and cheer.

Beside that hearth where Helen aye
Had rocked her own babes on her breast,
Virginia's chair, too, now they placed.
	A moment, just it thrilled him through,
He looked on Helen, peace so blest
	Illumed her face, it calmed him too.

The vitory was sure, was strong!
O love, O truth, how great thou art,
When thou hast mortal self o'ercome!
	When rocking on the unfathomed deep,
Or 'gainst the winds that sudden start,
	Thy bark its steady course doth keep.


____________________________________		
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
			________
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			________
			(Continued.)
	On the 25th there came six Indian chiefs to
President Young's camp to see him on busi-
ness, but he and father were still on the other
side of the river raising means of the brethren
to send to St. Louis by Bishop Whitney, who
was to start in about one week.
	"Thursday, the 29th," Horace wrote, "misty
and cloudy. The haying business going on as
usual. Bro. Kimball, Wm. Porter and Brig-
ham got back to-day--council held this even-
ing. Besides the six chiefs there are about
150 Indians in the vicinity, wanting to make
some arrangements with the brethren about the
possession of the land we are now occupying,
on which they are to hold council to-morrow
morning.
	Friday morning, pursuant to agreement, a
council was called. Horace says, "An aged
chief, almost blind, arose and requested that all
those who had anything to say about the land
business would speak. Accordingly a number
of brethren spoke. The amount of whose
words were these: That we had been driven
like themselves, the Lamanites, and now de-
sired a resting place with them for a little
season, and would render them any favor in our
power except assisting them to war against
other tribes, which would involve the shedding
of blood. After the brethren had all got
through speaking the old chief arose and said:
'Have you done?' refusing to make any reply,
or until that was the case. On receiving a
token of assent, he arose and said: 'I love your
words and will do you all the good I can, for
we have been pushed and driven, too, by the
nations around us, and should have come out
in open war against them long ago had not our
grandfather, the president, said, 'live in peace!' '
He furthermore said that the land that we are
now on is in dispute between this tribe (the
Omahaw) and the Otoes, who, he said, were a
thievish race, but if we would move up the
river about ten miles to the old fort of Council
Bluffs, where the tribes formerly met in coun-
cil and transacted business with the agents of
the U.S., then we might have peace and liber-
ty with them; we might make fields for them,
and they in return would let us have young
men to assist us in herding our cattle. He
furthermore said we were welcome to build
houses and winter there, and remain as long as
we chose with them, for they had undisputed
title to the land in the vicinity of it, and there
were greater conveniences there than here--
plenty of water, wood, etc., close at hand, The
conclusion of the council was that some of the
brethren would go up and see the country be-
fore deciding to move."
	"Saturday, 26th. Fine day.	*	*
Bro. Brigham, Kimball and wife, father and
mother, took supper at my tent this evening,
and conversed on several things connected
with father's going to St. Louis. Brigham told
us that he had received new of the death of
Father Huntington. He died at Mt. Pisgah.
*	*	We hear that Captain Allen, who
was appointed to the command of the regiment
of Mormon soldiers, has lately died at Fort
Leavenworth."
	We had previously heard, through Brother
Sherwood, of the death of father Bent, who
died at Garden Grove. The hardships and
privations of our people were beginning to tell
upon the old and the young, and various sized
mounds had already marked their lonely trail.
The days were still very warm and many of
the Saints were being brought into camp in a
very sick and distressed condition. The nights,
though, were beginning to be cold, and we had
begun tohave frequent rains, which increased
the sickness among us.
	"Sunday, 30th. Wm. Kimball, with two
other boys, went back to Musquieto Creek to
help Bishop Hunter up, whe was quite sick.
	A meeting was held in the morning at the
stand in the wood, and in the afternoon an-
other meeting was called at five p.m., under
the bower near our tent. Horace says: "Father
John Smith spoke at some length. He was
followed by Elder O. Pratt, who, in a clear
and concise manner, pointed out to the brethren
the advantage of our closing with the offer of
the Omahaw Indians, and moving up the river
to the Old Fort. Father Cutler spoke a few
words-- the amount of it was that the brethren
were not to discontinue the haying business be-
cause they thought they were going to move
away, but to "rush ahead" and do all they
could.
	President Young then spoke at some length
on the order of the government of the king-
dom of God. He said no man was fit to act 
as a governor or ruler until he had first proved
himself worthy of his office, by showing him-
self ready and willing to be governed. He al-
so said that it was necessary we should move
as speedily as possible to our winter quarters,
in order that we may be engaged in the build-
ing of houses, which it is necessary should be
immediately commenced.	*	*	Bro.
John Pack's youngest child, an infant, died to-
day.
	"Monday, 31st. Beautiful morning.  *  *
Brigham, Heber, father, Fathers Cutler and
Cahoon, with several others, some on horse-
back, others in wagons, started to go up the
river to look out our winter location. This
evening Wm. arrived with the carriage, bring-
ing Bishop Hunter with him. His family have
stopped for the night eight or nine miles back;
they wil be up to-morrow. Porter is at the
river assisting Bro. Woodsworth's folks across,
who are all quite sick."


What comes once in a minute, twice in a mo-
ment, and once in a man's life?	The letter m.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
		OCTOBER CONFERENCE
	The semi-Annual Conference held this month
has been one of special interest, an abundant
outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord being man-
ifest. The attendance was large, people having
come all the way from Colorado, Arizona and
New Mexico in the south, and also from the ex-
treme northern stakes of Zion as well. There
seems to be an increasing and more general de-
sire on the part of the Latter-day Saints to live
their religion and keep the commandments of
God than there has been in the past few years.
	The preaching during the several days of Con-
ference has been almost entirely by the First
Presidency and Apostles, who spoke with great
power and eloquence, in language calculated to
awaken the people to a sense of the duties, obli-
gations and responsibilities resting upon them as
Latter-day Saints and as co-workers in the estab-
lishing the kingdom of God upon the earth.
	On Saturday morning Apostle [-]. D. Richards,
delivered a very able and powerful discourse
dwelling mostly upon the training and care of
the children of the Saints, giving much good ad-
vice to parents on this subject, and pointing out
the duties of parents in so specific a manner that
all who heard must understand; he referred to
the influence of home and fireside teaching, al-
so the Primary Associations and Sunday Schools
and urged the parents and guardians of children
to see that they attended these institutions,
where they would be taught those things that
would lay the foundation which would promote
the best interests of all here and hereafter.
	Prest. George Q. Cannon followed Apostle
Richards and preached one of the most sublime-
ly eloquent and powerful sermons it has ever
been our privilege to hear delivered by a Proph-
et or Apostle.
	In the afternoon the authorities of the Church
were presented to be voted upon, and as there
were one or two vacancies in the Quorums, those
were filled in the usual manner and the vote of
the Conference called for to sustain the ap-
pointements made, which were: Elder John Mor-
gan as one of the seven Presidents of Seventies
to supply the vacancy caused by the death of
Elder W. W. Tayler, and as the Presiding Bish-
op, Wm. B. Preston, had lost his First Counsel-
or, Bishop L. W. Hardy, (deceased) left a vacan-
cy which was filled by appointing Bishop R. T.
Burton First instead of Second Counselor, and
thus requiring the nomination of another to
that office, and Elder John Q. Cannon was ap-
pointed to fill that position. Apostles Brigham
Young, Moses Thatcher and Albert Carrington
occupied the remainder of the afternoon speak-
ing upon the principles of the Gospel and im-
portant subjects of general interest to the peo-
ple, home manufacture, employment for the
unemployed, building up the country and home
institutions, etc.

			[Column 2]
	On the morning of the third day, Monday,
Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon presented the reports of
the several stakes of Zion and of the Primary
and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations and also a general report of the Relief
Society, after which Apostles F. M. Lyman and
George Teasdale addressed the conference.
	In the afternoon of the third day, some other
financial reports were submitted. A list of mis-
sionaries names were called and a vote was tak-
en to sustain the brethren who had been select-
ed to go to various parts of the world to preach
the Gospel.
	President John Taylor then addressed the
congregation. He explained the lofty purpose
and design of our Father in the creation and
final redemption of the earth and its inhabitants.
The order and organization of the Church and
the divine power and authority of the Priest-
hood. His sermon was powerful, impressive
and comprehensive, embracing many topics of
vital interest to the Latter-day Saints and also
to all mankind.
	Tuesday, Oct. 7. A large number of mission-
aries' names were presented to the Conference,
and the brethren sustained by unanimous vote.
President John Taylor addressed the assembly,
alluding to the misrepresentations circulated in
regard to this people, and spoke of the corrupt
condition of the world at large. Prest. Geo. Q.
Cannon read some statistics which had been
published in Eastern papers, relating to the im-
moral condition of society in the New England
States. Prest. Taylor dwelt for a few moments
upon the immorality existing there as set forth
in these statistics, and spoke of the class of
would-be-reformers that are anxious to regener-
ate the people of Utah; he denouched most em-
phatically the sins that were enumerated in
the statistics that had been read, and warned the
presiding officers among the people to attend to
their duties. President Taylor spoke for some
time, also, upon the temporal affairs of the peo-
ple and gave much timely advice, encouraged
in his remarks the efforts made to promote
home manufacture, and spoke of the facilities in
the undeveloped portions of the country for
those who were out of employment, the need
there would be  all kinds of labor; referred to
the carelessness of the people in paying up their
indebtedness to the Perpetual Emigration Fund
admonished the people to fulfil all duties as
Saints.
	Apostles H. J. Grant and J. W. Taylor each
made a few appropriate remarks upon spiritual
matters.
	The Conference adjourned until April, 1885,
in the large Tabernacle; singing by the choir and
closing benediction by Patriarch John Smith.


SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION.

   On Monday evening, Oct. 6th, the semi-annu-
al meeting of the Deseret Sunday School Union
was held in the large Tabernacle, General Su-
perintendent Geo. Q. Cannon presiding.  It was
the largest meeting of the kind ever held here,
the immense building and galleries were filled.
Several of the Apostles and many of the leading
men of the Church were present.  Excellent
music was rendered by the Union brass band
and the Logan choir.  Brother Evan Stephens
and Sister A. Cowley sang a duet, "God bless
our mountain home," with chorus by the choir,
which was an interesting feature of the meet-
ing.  Remarks were made appropriate to the
occasion by Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon, Apostles E.
Snow and W. Woodruff, and Elder John Mor-
gan.
    Many pleasing incidents of the Sunday School
work were given in a manner calculated to edi-


fy and encourage those engaged in this blessed
labor among the children of Zion.
    Elder Geo. Reynolds read a paper which had
been prepared by a committee,giving a complete
historical reveiw of the Union from its first or-
ganization, containing also suggestions and
changes made from time to time, the definite
and faithful labor of the several committees and
helps that had been added to the organization
in its growth and development.  The meeting
was in every particular calculated to promote
the prosperity and success of the institution.
The publication of music by the Juvenile In-
structor has been a great blessing and benefit
to the children, and the books and cards pub-
lished are an indispensable help in the work of
improvement in an intellectual and spiritual di-
rection.  It should be the aim of all Latter-day
Saints to aid by all means in their power the
brethren and sisters engaged in this laudable ef-
fort to instruct the little ones and the youth in
the ways of the Lord.


THE DESERET HOSPITAL.
			[line break]
	About the middle of July the Deseret Hos-
pital, which had been previously situated in the
Twelfth Ward of this City, was removed to a
building in the Seventeenth Ward, for several
years occupied by and known as the Deseret
University Building.  It is a very desirable lo-
cation for an institution of this kind, standing
at the corner of 2nd West and 1st North Sts.
There has been quite a number of improve-
ments made in the building, and it is really a
pleasant home for the afflicted, though there are
other improvements quite as necessary that will
be accomplished as soon as means can be ob-
tained to defray the expenses.  To those per-
sons who desire to aid the suffering and allevi-
ate misfortune, here is an opportunity to be-
stow of this world's goods and help in establish-
ing a place where the sick and injured  can re-
ceive the best medical and surgical skill and the
most efficient care and nursing towards their
recovery.
	The President of the Hospital, Bishop H. B.
Clawson, visits the institution himself every
day and leaves no means in his power untried to
promote its best interests.  The Board of Di-
rectors, who have been associated with the work
from its commencement, meet regularly for the
transaction of business, and the ladies of the
visiting committee visit every week and report
to the Executive Board.  There is a competent
resident Surgeon in the house, and physicians
who are well known in the medical fraternity,
visit regularly and take a deep interest in the
welfare of the same, there is also a steward and
matron, with competent nurses and other helps
who are under the direction of the matron.
Morning and evening prayers are regularly at-
tended to, and all patients who are able are ex-
pected to be present when prayers are offered.
On Sunday, meetings are held in the large re-
ception room, and the sacrament administered
to all in the house who  are under the direct
supervision of the Bishop of the Ward.
	Of late there have been several donations of
fruits, flowers, money and other articles; all
these things are very acceptable and there are
no doubt many who might give without impov-
erishing,and it would be a great blessing to help
forward a work of this kind.
	The ladies who established this Hospital in
May, 1882, and have worked faithfully with and
for it from the beginning, know better than any
one else possibly can, what a struggle it has been
to obtains means sufficient to keep up with the regu-
lare expenses.  These ladies, among whom we
must not forget to mention the venerable Presi-
dent, Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, who resigned


her position last April, have been untiring in
their efforts to make the Hospital a success in
every respect, never weary in well doing, and
although their labors were seemingly more or
less unappreciated, notwithstanding they gave
so much time and thought and actual labor free-
ly, yet they have persevered and are still deter-
mined to continue in this benevolent enter-
prise.
	At the commencement of the organization a
method was adopted of taking memberships of
one dollar per year, which has been very suc-
cessful with the ladies, and the money thus ob-
tained gives to the institution a little margin,
which is always necessary in establishing any-
thing of this kind.  Although the first year the
Association was composed of ladies exclusively,
it was afterwards decided to take gentlemen
members on the same terms.  Since that time
some brethren have come forward and joined,
but, so far, comparatively few.  If this could be
made general it would be one of the very best
methods to help the institution in its infancy,
for there are very few who could not afford to
give one dollar per year to such a noble work as
the care, nursing and treatment of the sick.
There are many, indeed most of those, who ap-
ply for treatment, who cannot pay, and as a nat-
ural consequence, unless the Hospital is helped
by free donations, it would naturally fall behind;
at the present time there is due to the Hospital
from patients for medical treatment and board,
considerably over two thousand dollars, and a
very great amount of charity work has been
done since the institution was established.  The
managers of the Hospital will thankfully re-
cieve any donations whatever, fruits, fresh or
dried, vegetables of any kind, or produce, any-
thing in fact that the liberal and kind-hearted
public feel to give will be acceptble.
	President John Taylor and his Counselors, the
Twelve Apostles and their Counselors have giv-
en their names as members of the Deseret Hos-
pital Association, also A. M. Cannon, Prest. of
this Stake, and his Counselors, and Prest. W.
W. Cluff of Snmmit Stake, and several Bishops
and other brethren.
	At the Priesthood meeting in this city a short
time ago this subject was talked of and a vote
taken upon it, and it may therefore be expected
that the brethren of this Stake will come for-
ward and join the Association.  The officers in-
vite those interested in this matter to pay a vis-
it to the building that they may see for them-
selves how the affairs are conducted.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							      

_____________________________________________________________________________________


LADIES, GO AND VOTE.
	The preliminary political work has been done
and the several County Conventions have been
held and delegates sent to the Territorial Con-
vention in this city, held on the 8th of October
at 12 m., and Hon. John T. Caine has received
the nomination for delegate to the next Con-
gress, to be voted for at the November election.
	Now it remains to be seen how much interest
the people will manifest in the vote to be cast.
It is certainly an important matter, for although
the People’s Party may feel sure of their numer-
ical strength, yet indifference in regard to affairs
that concern the whole people of the Territory
and their representation in the Congress of the
United States, is a great mistake, to use the
mildest term possible.  A heavy vote, an over-
whelming majority of the People’s Party is
what would be proper and right, and it is also
what the Utah delegate, the Hon. John T.
Caine, who has so faithfully and ably represent-
ed the Territory since his election, is justly en-
titled to receive.
	There is very little political machinery at
work in Utah, and it has not been the custom


here to electioneer and use a great deal of bom-
bast as is customary in the States, but the peo-
ple, one and all, ought to consider it an impera-
tive duty by diligence and faithfulness to hold
sacred every privilege given them to maintain
their civil and political rights.  Especially so in
consideration of the laws which have been
passed debarring from the polls and divesting of
all these rights many of those who had ever
been foremost and faithful in the perfromance
of this duty.  Men and women who had been
instrumental in establishing law and order in
this Territory; if anything would arouse the peo-
ple to greater diligence in this direction, one
would think this fact would.
	Ladies, you who still retain the rights of citi-
zenship, the right to vote, do not neglect the
sacred and imperative duty of going to the
polls and casting your vote at the November
election, that it may not be your fault if there is
uot a tremendously heavy majority, and that the
Delegate may realize that he has the full confi-
dence and support of the ladies of the People's
Party.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A book entitled "Heroines of Mormondom,"
the second book of the "Noble Women's Lives
Series," has just been published and is for sale
at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Price,
25 cts.  The publishers, in the preface, say of
this book: "The remarkable events here record-
ed are worthy of perusal and remembrance by
all the youth among this people, as they will
tend to strengthen faith in and love for the Gos-
pel for which noble men and women have suf-
fered so much.  The names, too, of such hero-
ines as these, the sketches of whose lives we
herewith give, should be held in honorable re-
membrance among this people, for no age or na-
tion can present us with more illustrious exam-
ples of female faith, heroism and devotion."
	The book contains three sketches, the first:
"A Noble Woman's Experience," is of the mo-
ther of Prest. Jos. F. Smith, a woman who pos-
sessed not only great moral courage, fortitude
and endurance, but who also had a great deal of
executive ability, and in her life and character
was a devoted Latter-day Saint.
	The second is "A Remarkable Life;" it is by
Homespun, the story of Sister Chittendon of
Provo, and is graphically told by the writer.
	The third sketch, "A Heroine of Haun's Mill
Massacre," is of Sister Amanda Smith, a name
that all Latter-day Saints who have read the
history of the Church must be familiar with.
Her experience at Haun's Mill was one that few
women, unless aided by divine power, could
have lived through.
	Either of these sketches are well worth the
price of the book.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

My Dear Sisters:
	I desire to thank you for your many words of
consolation and advice which I have received
through the medium of this dear little paper, the
Woman's Exponent. As I have not the pleas-
ure of listening to the counsels of the Saints
who have been gathered home to Zion, it is a
great pleasure to me to be able to read them.
	I, too, am indignant at the misrepresentations
of Mrs. Newman and others who have said so
much about the sisters in Zion.  Although I
have never lived in Utah, I have parents there,
and I have lived among the "Mormons" many
years of my life, and I know there are a great
many untruths told about them; but as it was
in the days of Jesus, when He said, "Let not your


hearts be troubled, for these things must needs
be;" but rather rejoice that you are where you
can be led and guided in the right path and your
Heavenly Father will never forsake you in the
future any more than He has in the past, if you
continue to do His will.
						ANN HARDY.
	Council Bluffs, Iowa.


EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
______

Editor Exponent:
	Our Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socie-
ty was held at Snowflake, Sept. 12, 1884, Presi-
dent Emma S. Smith presiding.  After open-
ing exercises verbal reports were given by pres-
idents of the Relief Society of six wards, show-
ing them to be doing well and trying to perform
the duties devolving upon them in their differ-
ent organizations.  Statistical and financial re-
ports were read.  There are eleven branches of
the Relief Society in the Stake, and a member-
ship of four hundred and aixty-five.
	President Emma S. Smith spoke encourage-
ingly and gave much good advice to the sisters.
She was pleased to note the advancement since
our last conference, and exhorted all to dillegence
and faithfulness.
	Our Society is increasing in numbers and good
works; the sisters feel encouraged and seem to
take a great interest in performing their various
duties, and are seeking to be helpers in the great
latter-day work.
	We are here surrounded by those who seek to
destroy our peace, take away our civil rights and
bring our brethren and sisters into bondage; yet
we desire to bear all patiently and have an im-
plicit faith in Him who doeth all things well.
	Ever praying that truth may triumph over
error, I remain
			Yours in the Gospel,
				DELLA FISH, Stake Sec.


Y. L. AND PRIMARY ITEMS.
Editor Exponent: 
	Knowing, as I do, that it is always a source of
gratification and pleasure to you to hear of the
progress of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary, I
venture to send you an account of the Y. L. &
P. A. of Fillmore and Holden.
	Being on a visit at these places I attended the
meeting of the Y. L. A. of both places; also an
annual Primary meeting at Holden, which was
a most interesting one in every way, the child-
ren seeming to be most attentive and one with
their President, Sister Kelson, who was unani-
mously re-elected.
	The Primary gave a concert on Friday even-
ing and acquitted themselves in a first rate
manner.  A little band of drummers in uni-
form being the novelty of the evening. The
singing and recitations were excellent.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				M. A. Greenhalgh.
	Meadow, Sept. 18,1881.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		WOODRUFF, ARIZONA.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It has been about seven or eight years since
this place has been settled, and we are here yet
without water out on our land.  We have met
with a great loss this year in consequence of
our dam giving out, but still we feel quite en-
couraged, and think the Lord has greatly
blest us.
	Our brethren from this Stake have kindly
offered to help put in the dam again, or at least


[first column]
replace that which has been lost.  We feel
very grateful for their help, and think it shows
their good feelings toward us.  We have had a
beautiful season this year--rain enough to put
in their crops, and will be able, I think, to
gather all our crops.
	The people of this place have been greatly
blest with good health.  The Relief Society is
doing well, also the Primary and the Y. L. M.
L. A. which has only been organized a short
time.  The officers are as follows: Mrs. Lenora
Savage, President; Mrs. Cecelia Owens and Mrs.
Medora Gardner, Counselors; Miss Annie
Woods, Secretary; Miss Elsie Owens, Treasurer.
We have about twenty-five members, and we
hold our meetings once a week and have every
other one a work meeting.  In them we are
learning to make flowers, lace, gloves, and to
braid hats, and do such useful work.  We hold
conjoint meetings once a month with the Y.
M. M. I. A.  We can see that our meetings
are a great benefit to us; it makes us feel as
though we were not so much out of the world
if we are away out in Arizona.  We feel like
pressing forward and being up to our duty as
Latter-day Saints.
	Ever wishing for the success of the EXPON-
ENT, and all who work righteousness, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
						M. GARDNER.
	Woodruff, Apache Co., Arizona.

			UTAH COUNTY

	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah County Stake, held in the meet-
ing house, Provo City, August 29th, 1884,
Counselor Mary John presiding.  Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, and reports from
the different wards of the county, etc.
	Sister John felt pleased to meet with the sis-
ters in conference again; thought our reports
were good-- wished to hear verbal reports from
the presidents and hoped the sisters would
speak their minds freely.  We can all say
something of this great work in which we are
engaged, etc.
	In responding to the call the presidents rep-
resented the sisters as on the increase in
faith and good works, ever ready to aid in any
and every good work presented to them.  As
the morning was far spent after singing and
prayer conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with the usual ex-
ercises.  A few of the presidents who had not
given in their reports in the morning, now oc-
cupied a short time in doing so, and as there
were quite a number of the brethren present,
they were invited to speak to us.
	Brother F. M. Lyman said: I trust that in
speaking I shall have the Spirit of God.  Ex-
horted the sisters to be speakers.  Said they
were sometimes accused of talking too much,
which was often true of men as well as women.
The Lord gave women the faculty of talking
that they might educate their children in the
more finer virtues.  Mothers should be educa-
ted as thoroughly as fathers in the Gospel of
Christ.  Mothers are more responsible than
fathers for the state of society--they have
more the care of the youth and their influence
reaches farther.  Most children would leave
father for mother, hence the greater the re-
sponsibility of the mother, and the mothers in
Zion have the greatest.  The spirits of superi-
or beings are coming, and will still come, and
we wish to prepare ourselves that they may
come to holy parents, that a righteous seed
may be raised up with a fear to do wrong.  The
woman has the chief mission in this regard.  I
recommend you to be energetic, be speakers.
Every time we bear our testimony to the truth
of this work and the Prophet Joseph, we gain
strength and a blessing.  If you desire to see
your songs honored and respected and saved in
[second column]
the celestial kingdom, be industrious workers
in the society and in the Kingdom of God,
and with your tongues do good and not evil.
Never speak, nor allow your children to speak
against celestial marriage. No man or woman
is entitled to a wife or husband that does not
embrace that principle.  You mothers ought
to educate your children in that principle; you
cannot have your husbands or children with-
out that law, for without that law there is no
eternal increase.
	President Smoot said he could bear his testi-
mony to the truth of the remarks of Apostle
Lyman.  Eternal lives is the greatest gift of
God; we can never attain to an eternal increase
without the celestial law; seek to know your
proper status--we should hate to wake up in
the resurrection and find ourselves without an
eternal increase.  I am sorry so many speak so
lightly of that law.  You will be held respon-
sible for your teachings to your children on that
principle.
	Brothers H. H. Cluff and D. John endorsed
the remarks of the previous speakers, and ex-
horted the sisters to continue faithful in all
good works, etc.
	Sister John said, I feel to bear my testimony
to the truth of what has been said.  I know
them to be true, etc.  We will sing and ad-
journ our meeting for three months.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning." Benediction by Apostle F. M.
Lyman.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

			BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Twelfth Semi-Annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake
Stake, Sunday 10 a.m.  Meeting called to or-
der by Prest Julia P. Lindsay.  Singing, "Hail
to the brightness of Zion's glad morning."
Prayer by Bishop John A. Hunt. Singing,
"The Lord is King." Minutes of last confer-
ence read and accepted.
	Prest. Lindsay had enjoyed the meetings on
the two previous days and asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of the Saints to assist
them in their labors through the day.
	The following branches were then re-
presented:--St. Charles, Fish Haven, Garden
City, Randolph, Bloomington, Paris 1st and
2nd Wards, Ovid, Liberty, Montpelier, George-
town and Cottonwood.  Those of Laketown,
Meadowville, Woodruff and Saleratus Creek,
Bennington, Soda Springs and Preston were not
represented.
	Prest Lindsay said it had been customary to
read the written reports as well as the verbal
reports, but this morning thought it would be
well to omit those who had been reported, and
read only the ones from settlements that had
not been reported.  The reports were then read
by the  Secretary, showing that a good work
was being done by the Relief Society.  The
sisters reported an excellent feeling prevailing
in all the wards, and the sisters trying to live
better lives and to keep the commandments of
the Lord.		*		*		*		*
	You all understand that I have been labor-
ing with but one counselor most of the time
since appointed to the Stake Presidency on ac-
count of the sickness of Sister Rich.  She has
often asked to be released, but I have declined
until now when I do not feel able to do the
work, and Sister Collings is not very strong.
We have concluded that under the circum-
stances it would be better to have a younger
woman to assist us.  Sister Rich is a faithful
woman and would be glad to assist us if she
could; wished the faith and prayers of the
Saints to be exercised in her behalf.  Spoke of
the building of the Tabernacle and desired the
assistance of the sisters in this important mat-
ter that they might assist the brethren.
	Counselor E. Collings.  We have the teach-
[third column]
ings of the servants of the Lord to guide us
and it is our duty to follow them.  The time is
short and there is a work to do.  Was willing
to do all she could, but had not had the chance
that the young ladies now have, but if we will
do the will of God we will be all right.  His
promises are sure and we can rely upon them,
Let us be faithful and fulfil the covenants we
have made with our Father in Heaven.
	The circular was then read by the Asst. Sec-
retary calling on the Relief Society to assist in
building the Tabernacle. Singing--an anthem,
"Bless the Lord." Benediction by Prest. Wm.
Budge.
	2 p.m.  Singing.  Prayer by Prest. J. H.
Hart.  Singing—an anthem, "The earth is the
Lord's." The Sacrament was then administered.
The statistical and financial report was read by
the Stake Secretary, Sister E. Pugmire.
	Prest. Lindsay had a few items of business
to lay before the society which she explained.
Referring to the Hospital, said that the money
as well as the articles sent last spring were very
acceptable to that institution.  Was much
pleased and encouraged with the young ladies'
meetings; knew that they must have worked
hard to have accomplished as much as they
had, and exhorted them to continue in well
doing.
	Sister L. M. Hart was then nominated to
take the position of second Counselor, which
was unanimously sustained by vote of the peo-
ple.  She was set apart to that office by Prests,
Wm. Budge, Jas. H. Hart and George Os-
mond.
	Prest. Wm. Budge said, We are increasing
in numbers and we are increasing in faith.
There are great numbers of Saints that see the
necessity of attending their meetings now that
did not a few years ago.  This is a time of great
importance to us.  It is time we were making
improvement, and drawing nearer to God.  The
spirit of the times suggests this.  The time is
coming when there will be a general disturb-
ance; the wicked will fight with the wicked and
we cannot tell how soon it will come.  The day
is also drawing near when the Son of God will
come in His glory.  When these things appear
they will try the faith of those that can be
shaken.  All that can be shaken will be shaken
and those who are not established in the truth
with full purpose will fall.  How careful we
ought to be to get the spirit of the Gospel.
The wicked are enraged.  What is the matter?
The Lord said He would establish His king-
dom never more to be thrown down, and the
adversary knows that his time is short and
uses all his influence with the nations.  We
must be as charitable as possible.  Practice
what you preach.  Walk up close to those who
are trying to keep the laws of God.  Gave
many pointed instructions to the sisters in re-
gard to assisting their husbands in keeping the
commandments of God.
	Prest. Hart was very much pleased at having
the pleasure of being home again and able to
meet with the people of St. Charles.  Always
enjoyed the meetings of the sisters and was
much interested in the instructions given, they
would make us wise unto salvation. They give
us joy and satisfaction in this world, and glory
and exaltation hereafter.  It is the kingdom
that in its development will influence and
mould all other institutions to His will.  This
work is preparing us for the great advent of
the Savior's coming.  We should be thankful
for the position we occupy here in the valleys
of the mountains.  No power can destroy us,
as this Church will stand though the heavens
and earth may pass away.
	Prest. Osmond congratulated the sisters up-
on the success of their conference.  Saw an-
other great necessity of a house to meet in.
We have heard a great many good instruc-
tions and know them to be true.  We much
never expect to wear a crown unless we work


[first column]
for it.  We must work more earnestly and ef-
fectively and fulfil all the obligations resting
upon us.  The word of the Lord is given to us
in great plainness that we cannot misunder-
stand.  Prayed God to give us more courage
and faith that we may do His will here upon
the earth.
	In speaking of the day of judgement, we
think of it being a great way off, but it is much
nearer than we think.  All the time that is
given us is the time we live here upon the
earth.  The night is coming when we cannot
work so we must work while it is day.
	Bro. Edward Pugmire who had been select-
ed to labor as a scribe in the Temple was unani-
meusly sustained by the meeting.
	Prest Lindsay made a few closing remarks.
Stated that the next conference would be held
on the 2nd Saturday and Sunday in January,
1885.  Thanked the people of St. Charles for
their kindenss in fixing up the house so nicely,
also the choir for their music.
	Singing, "I will praise the name of the
Lord." Benediction by Prest George Osmond.
		MRS. E. PUGMIRE, Secretary,
		MISS JULIA BUDGE, Ass't Secretary.

	Y. L. M. I. A., OGDEN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The ladies of the Relief Society of Weber
Stake of Zion held their Quarterly Conference
on Thursday, September 18, 1884, President
Jane S. Richards presiding.  After the usual
exercises of singing and prayer, reading of
minutes and reports, etc., President Jane S.
Richards made a few opening remarks.  Felt
pleased in beholding so many of her brothers
and sister again in conference; felt we would
have a good time together and God would
greatly bless us at this time, and expressed her
disappointment at not having the company of
Sisters Snow and Wells, but was pleased that
we had Sister Sarah Kimball with us.
	Secretary Sarah M. Kimball spoke upon
many very interesting subjects pertaining to
the Gospel, the great blessings which we as a
people receive daily from our Heavenly Fath-
er; thought we should rejoice that we were not
as the rest of the world; prayed we would be
humble instruments in the hands of God of do-
ing much good, etc.
	Sister Ruthinda Monch felt that we needed
the Spirit of God to be able to address a con-
gregation of Latter-day Saints.  Sister Monch
spoke upon the subjects of knowledge. wisdom
and revelation.  She quoted considerable from
the Bible and Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants, which made her remarks very interest-
ing and instructive.
	President L. W. Shurtliff had been highly
pleased with the excellent instructions given,
and at hearing the reports, some 18 in all.  He
perceived an increase of interest in the Relief
Society, which was a valuable auxiliary in as-
sisting the Bishops in looking after the wants
of the poor and sick in their wards; knew they
would be blessed in performing the labors al-
lotted to them.
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Apostle F. D. Richards, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	The afternoon session commenced at 2:25
with singing and prayer, after which Counsel-
or Emily Shurtliff, President Sarah J. Herrick
Secretary Sarah M. Kimball and Bishop Win-
slow Farr occupied the afternoon, each dwell-
ing on various subjects connected with the Gos-
pel, both spiritually and temporally.  They
prayed God to bless His people with under-
standing and prayerful hearts, that they might
accomplish His will.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards made a few closing
remarks; hoped all would strive to keep the
commandments of God and remember the gold-
en rule, being charitable in our dealings one
with another, not only in word, but in deed.
	Conference, adjourned for three months,
closed with singing and benediction.
				Monta Harris, Secretary.
		____________________


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUPERFICIAL ADMISSIONS OF
				GUILT.
				[line break]
	It is repeatedly asserted that the principles
of Mormonism, carried out, are productive of
evil; that their influence and effect are both
corrupting, and that proof of this assertion is
to be seen in vices which many Latter-day
Saints themselves deplore.  There might be
truth in part of these allegations if reasoning
went only to a given point.
	It is true that Latter-day Saints deplore
many vices existing in their midst; the fact
that they deplore these vices, however, is proof
that they do not approve of them, that they do
not approve these vices is evidence that the
evils are not a natural outgrowth of the Mor-
mon faith, as were the reverse true the Mor-
mons could not tolerate a faith productive of
vice, and still deplore the existence of the vice
itself.
	Is is laughable to note the idiotic conclusions
which a little thought will produce; when the
reflection ceases before a legitimate stopping
point has been reached.  To the bare and un-
supported declaration  that the principles of
Mormonism carried out, are productive of
evil, that their influence and effect are both
corrupting, to such declarations,unsupported–
and they must be unsupported, being untrue–
it is only necessary to interpose a bare and un-
supported denial.  The declaration and the de-
nial, being of equal weight, the force of the
former, according to the rules of logic, is lost;
and save where prejudice becomes a factor, such
declarations, in the fact of such a denial, can
have no effect whatever.
	But to the short sighted, or those who reason
in a limited way only,the effect of conditions,
by which a principle or an object is surrounded,
often passes for the natural outgrowth of the
principle or object itself, and this failing is one
to which humanity is painfully prone.  As a
rule, the idea prevails that whatever is a crime
is of necessity a sin.  Nothing could be more
absurd.  It is true a sin is always a crime,even
though unpunishable by human law; but the
reverse by no means follows as an irresistible
conclusion.  While the assumption may be re-
diculous, yet it will illustrate the position taken:
i.e., we will say, a body of men as a law mak-
ing power, pass a law, and it enforces making
it an offense to talk, to eat or to walk, or some
other matter, as the case may be.  To this of-
fence a penalty is attached.  To violate this
law, when it has become in reality a law, is a
crime; but will anybody be silly enough to as-
sume that these things above enumerated
would therefore be a sin.  Yet this is exactly
the position of those who attribute all manner
of vices to Mormonism, and who claim that
violation of United States, or other laws, be-
cause a crime against the law is a sin.
	It may be a crime, because of the laws which
have been passed in Congress during the last
few years, to practice plural marriage, but the
being is yet to come to the front, who can suc-
cessfully prove it to be a sin.
	As for the evils which are said to be the
outgrowth of Mormonism, this can be said-
There is not a principle of the Latter-daySaints'
faith, faithfully and honestly carried out, that
can, of itself, produce evil results.  But hu-
manity is weak, is wilful and headstrong; man-
kind in its combativeness and from the evil
spirit it encourages, ever seeks something to
crush; yet anxious that there may be at least
the appearance of justice for its bloodthirsty
work, surrounds the object of its hatred and
malice by conditions that bring out the ap
pearance of evil.  Thus a man whose heart
tells him he is right, is often, by adverse cir-
cumstances, placed in an equivical position in
order to escape a penalty which is unmerited
and which is the outgrowth of circumstances
uncontrolled and uncontrollable by the intend-
ed victim.  He escapes; the means by which
he escapes becoming known, he is accused of
innate wickedness, and so adjudged when the
individual's conduct, his whole walk through
life may point to the fact that he could not be
guilty of the crime chargd.
	It is said that plural marriages are hidden,
and this declaration being undenied, the fact
of the hiding is taken as evidence, as a full ad-
mission that those practicing polygamy are
ashamed of it.  If plural marriages are kept
secret it is because, in fulfilling what men be-
lieve to be a command of God, they subject
themselves to punishment by men.  The hid-
ing, or the secresy in this case is not, and no
sane man would claim it to be an admission of
crime; it is simply a means to disappoint an end
that would necessarily result from the condi-
tions surrounding the practice, and which con-
ditions have been made by the enemies of the
people who believe in the practice of polygamy.
It is this superficial admission of evil that de-
ceives many, and why judge of the tree by
fruits which are not the fruits of the tree
judged?						W.


CHESTER ANNUAL PRIMARY FAIR.
	The Presidency of the Chester Primary As-
sociation held their annual fair Sept. 19, 1884.
The house being unfinished did not admit of
much ornamentation, but there was a cleanli-
ness, a sweetness, the result of the labors of
the little ones.
	As  you entered the house your eye feasted
upon some mottoes, one on a green ground had
the word "Welcome" wrought in wheat ears;
another, “Primary Fair,” in oats, and another
in cut letters, "Suffer little children, etc." An
array of quilts, tidies, child's dress, rakes, a
meeting house seat, vegetables, poultry, pastry,
etc., truly graced the tables, for they were the
work of the nimble fingers of the little ones.
	The Primary choir sang the opening hymn;
prayer by Bishop R. N. Allred; another hymn,
and the ysecretary called the roll of about 60
members and their little eyes glistened as they
responded "present." An unusually interest-
ing programme of songs, pieces, readings and
and class exercises were gone through, as fol-
lows:
	A neat little dialogue, Master Orrin and
Miss Lydia Allred; Piece, "The Wonder Sack"
was pathetically rendered by Miss Lovetta
Neilsen: A little five-year-old, Viola Allred,
gave us in lisping tones, "Watching for Papa;"
"The Old Arm-chair." Miss Neilsen; Five lit-
tle girls rendered without a flaw the Alphabet
in Rhyme; a beautiful song by Misses Ida
Thompson and Hannah Whitlock; of the first 
let me record her patient handiwork of six
week's toil, a centre table crochet cover, evinc-
ing taste and skill; "Cold Water, cold water"
by Eurida Allred and Lucinda Neilsen; Song,
"I'm lonely since Mother died." was sweetly
rendered by Drusilla Allred and Emma Neil-
sen; Recitation, "The Adopted Child," Emma
Neilsen and Rinda Anderson; Little six-year-
old Dennis Monson gave us "Neat little clock"
"Darling Bess" by Wilford Monson; Reading,
"Jane's Apology," Miss Amelia M. Candland;
Questions and Answers by the members of the
Primary; "Morning will shine through the wil-
lows," by the Misses Neilsen.
	After the exercises were over Bishop R. N.
Allred followed by some felicitous remarks.
Hymn and benediction closed this part of the
programme, then came a distribution of prizes


for works of taste exhibited, punctuality at
meeting, and for the songs, pieces, etc., so well
rendered.
	One feature of the presents, they were most-
ly glass ware, and showed an eminently practi-
cal fitness in the choice.  Then followed the
cutting of cakes, pies, etc., and the graceful
handing around by the little cooks; “please
taste my cake,” “please, taste my pie,” till you
almost ate, if not too much, at least to gratify
the cook.  For some hours fun and frolic were
the order of this merry, vivacious crowd.
	To the presidency, Mesdames Heywood, Mil-
lie Allred and Andrea Whitlock, too much
praise cannot be given, though in the geograph-
ical heart of this county no one calls to say,
“How do you do,” we move, live and have our
being and our own fun as we make it.
	We are promised the railroad here soon and
perhaps to stay awhile, when we hope to see
the elect ladies get off the train not to be
whisked past us to bore populous places.  We
feel sometimes like the small fry in a crowd of
bigger ones in a procession, the larger ones get
in front of us and we don’t get to see; the ele-
phant at all.
						D. CANDLAND.
	Chester, Sept. 29, 1884.
Written by request of President Emma
Heywood.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Who bravely dares must sometimes risk a
fall. –Smollett.
	Our grand business in life is not to see what
lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies
celarly at hand. –Carlyle.
	"What has vecome of your society for the
suppression of slang?" asked the high-school
girl of her friend Amy. "Oh, its gone up the
spout,” replied the latter. "You mean, 'ascend-
ed the conduit, do you not?" corrected Mil-
dred. –Oil City Derrick
	The cause of women is making swift progress
in Norway. Mr. H. E. Berner, a distinguished
member of the Norwegian Parliament, has been
successful, this past session, in opening up the
entire University privileges of the Christiana
University to women.  Mr. Berner has also
obtained the enactment of a law by which;
after passing due examination, women may
practice as apothecaries and pharmaceuti-
cal chemists.  Mr. Berner has been instrumen-
tal in forming a society in Christiana for the
advancement of women.  In early Scandina-
vian history of women were much freer and more
highly considered than in any of the Latin
races.–Ex.
	I fancy that Mr. Blaine recognizes the value
of the aid women are bringing into this can–
vass. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mary A. Liv-
ermore, Lucy Stone, and a vast array of gifted
women everywhere, are bringing to this cam-
paign an earnestness and an enthusiasm that is
a new element in American politics.  While I
would not venture, from an interview that was
merely a personal and private one, to relate
Mr, Blaine's provate conversation, yet I can
hardly refrain from noticing the high and gen-
erous appreciation and the noble recognition
that he gives to all these eminent women, whose
words have weight and whose characters stand
for all that is highest and of best repute in
womanhood.–Lilian Whiting.
	"The San Carlos Academy of fine Arts, in
the Aztec capital, celebrated its centennial an-
niverary years previous to our national cen-
tennial, an while in our young nation such a
thing as art could scarcely be said to have an


existence.  Mexican painting is a child of the
grand old Spanish school, provincial and not
national, essentially a reflected art, character-
ized by knowledge and refinement, but lack-
ing vitality.  It needs to come in contact with
art abroad, and receive a new transmission of
contemporary energy.  The San Carlos stu-
dents have continued to work on the line of the
old masters.  The pictures are admirable in
drawing, and have a fine feeling for form, but
defective in color and in the sentiment which
springs from color.  Old Spain spared to Mexi-
co some of her ablest painters, as well as many
masterpieces which were scattered among the
churches and convents of the land.  In the
war of 1857, when churches were pillaged,
hundreds of valuable works were destroyed.
The French invasion with Maximilian added
greatly to the spoilation of these treasures of
art, which were carried out of the country.”


GRAHAM BREAD.
			GUNNISON, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The reason why Graham bread is not more extensive-
ly used, is perhaps because so few of us know how to
make it taste so good that we can let it take the place
of white or fine flour bread or at least a place on our ta-
bles.  While I do not presume to be able to tell my sis-
ters the beneficial effect of graham bread on the systems
of our bodies, twenty years of its constant use in our
family may perhaps entitle the following recipe to a
trial among our enterprising housekeepers, the readers
of the EXPONENT:
	Mix in warm water, cold in summer, with yeast the
first time (after which always says about a teacupful of
the dough, which is an infallible rising, and does not
sour the bread). Do not bake immediately after the
dough is up.  In working to put it up in the drippers do
not use one speck of dry flour.  Put on the dough a
teacupful or more of water, cut the dough loose from
the sides of the pan and work it until it does not ad-
here to the hands or pan.  Do not try to mould it into
loaves, but turn it in one bulk from the pan into the
dripper; put immediately into a hot oven and bake for an
hour and a half;  then let the oven gradually cool down
for one hour longer, when it may be taken out.  It is
very essential that it should be baked in this way, as ab-
solutely nothing else can impart such a fine flavor to
the bread.			HELENA MADSEN.


OBITUARY.
It becomes our duty to again record the death of one
of our beloved sisters.  Ann Robinson, wife of Charles
Whittaker, departed this life Sept. 18, 1884, at American
Fork, Utah Co., Utah.
	Deceased was born Sept. 19, 1819, at Sawley, Derby-
shire, England.  Embraced the Gospel Dec., 1859; emi-
grated from Nottingham in 1863.
	She was a faithful and efficient teacher in the Relief So-
ciety of this place, and though sorely afflicted for a
number of years, she bore her afflictions with fortitude,
and attended cheerfully to her duties in the Society
whenever her health permitted.
	She leaves a husband, one daughter, several grand-
children and a number of friends to mourn her loss.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE.


HOME PRODUCTIONS
    When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
	merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
    Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
    MESSRS. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
						 engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
		"Way Up" Baking Powder.
    As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
    Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE
P.O. Box 504.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH



			For Sale at this Office.
		BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
	PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,    -   25c.per copy
	MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,   40c.	"
	POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	    -	     $1.00	"
	    "		Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
			 of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
	CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
		TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
		George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
		bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50


			DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
		PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.


			DAVID JAMES & CO.,
	TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.
 Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
 Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


		ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868
			 	  Z.C.M.I
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	  DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
		HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
					MENTS,
			CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
		PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
		CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
		GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger and more complete
	Stock than any house in the west.
					H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.


			Special to the Ladies.
			 AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be foud the latest styles and productions
					in
		LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
			FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
				RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
			And an elegant assortment of
				DRY GOODS:
		Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
	fant's Shoes.
				112,114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


			F Aurbach & Bro.
			A Full and Complete Stock of
				MILLINERY.
			Spring and Summer Goods
			AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
			CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1884.	NO. 11.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG.
	ON HIS SEVENTY-SEVENTH BIRTHDAY.
				______

Another year’s short journey nearer heaven!
And this bright Sabbath you are seventy-seven.
	I know what most you prize
Of all the birthday gifts that may be given–
The love that speaks from honest lips and eyes.

In stately halls of grandeur and of splendor,
Fond, loving voices, ever true and tender,
The sweetest music make
On heart chords, oft so delicate and slender
That harsh, rough tones their fibres chill and break.

And in the lowly, modest, quiet dwelling,
Where love's bright springs are ever softly welling,
And often bubble o'er,
No other sounds so dear as these when telling
	Of joyous increase to their bounteous store.

Love hath no bounds, its increase is forever;
If pure new ties cannot the old ones sever,
But all together grow
Brighter and stronger each for each, and never
Will one its own true value sink below.

This subject is to me sweet and cheery,
I might go on, still on, and ne'er grow weary,
But time will not suffice;
In all your future days may nothing dreary
	Becloud the sunshine of the love you prize.

Another year’s short journey nearer heaven I
Count all together now, the seventy-seven,
A journey-long, but blest,
In which the Gospel light to thee is given,
And love of truth–of all goods gifts the best.

I offer nothing more than this small token,
Wherein of all best things I've briefly spoken;
But this I can foresee,
Thousands whom you have blest, a chain unbroken,
Of love links seal with gratitude to thee.
						LULA.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 19, 1884.


[Column 1]
	EPISTOLARY FRAGMENT

	I feel there is fine material in you, and there
fore my interest and sympathy is called out be-
cause, permit me to say, it will require wisdom
to properly lay it out for your own comfort
and exaltation in the Church and Kingdom of
God. Mormonism, so called, is so entirely dif-
ferent to any thing else we have met in our
former life, that we are apt to think we are in
a clear path, where soon we find we have to
walk cautiously or before we are the least
aware we are entangled in a mesh not easily to 
be disentangled. Pardon me, if you think my
words gratuitous, I have the best and most ap-
preciative feelings for you, but I am older than
you, both in age and in the Church, and I
simply give you portions of my experience and
that which I have found to answer my highest
ambition and expectation. All conquerors
have had to "stoop to conquer" in some way or
other; they have had tact, which is more than
talent; they have been close observers of their
surroundings, and deep thinkers; they have
walked cautiously, calmly, humbly, it is only
the great who can stoop, the opposite have no-
thing to stoop from, they have no platform;
people of large heart and brain have a natural
platform born with them--they are a constitu-
tion and an institution in themselves. Ponder
my words before you dissent or decide; then I
think you will realize truth in them to your
entire satisfaction.
    Let me tell you I read in you a character of
[Column 2]
no mean order--but for that very reason it will
have to be developed, slowly, cautiously, unless
some unforeseen event were to call you out. I
consider the way in which you have begun
your Mormon life in Utah is good, and you are
now sowing seed that will form a foundation
for a grand superstructure. Foundations are
always constructed out of rough, unpolished
materials, such as are powerful to endure and
bear up the superstructure. Therefore do not
be discouraged if you find these materials su-
perabundant in your present path of life; keep
your eye upon the grand edifice yet to be re-
vealed.
    Woman's sphere is extending and expand-
ing all over the world, even in obscure coun-
tries there is the same movement, but it must
needs be of slow growth because of its long
inertia and because of its mighty sequel. The
curse so heavily laid upon woman and so pas-
sively borne until a second nature has been
engendered and she believes it is to be--but
there has long been a class of women upon
whom the spirit of restoration has been work-
ing silently, unknown even to themselves in
the first movement, but nature and circum-
stances (generally severe ones) brought their
minds to a certain focus not before arrived at
by women, and they became almost impercep-
tibly leaders for their sisters in a more expan-
sive state of things; by their agency the yoke
became lighter--lighter, and now the move-
ment has become universal. Good, noble,
strong-minded men are assisting "strong-mind-
ed," but womanly women to gently but un-
sleepingly throw off the yoke of servile bondage
of long and dark ages, in which woman has
been but a "chattel" in her husband's house;
and an era of light, liberty and happiness is
dawning upon that half of God's creation
who have borne the yoke and the suffering
even to martyrdom--martyrdom of maternity
added to the list--all these long, dark centur-
ies, and she will awake one fine morning and
rise up an unfettered being, bound only by the
law of God and her own pure nature; those
awful words and their still more awful mean-
ing: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband and
hs shall rule over thee," will have been can-
celled, because the curse is fulfilled and the
judge opens the door and bids the captive go
free, and she walks forth a free, unfettered being
as in her primal advent in the garden of Eden
--she will then feel her dignified responsibility
and will lay aside the frivolity that has so often
disfigured her, and which has generally arisen
from the very feeling that somehow she was but
an outlaw in her Father's house, where He
had intended her to live as the free, unfettered
co-partner of her brother, man. In a great
measure she is to be her own agent in this re-
form movement, always seeking and having the
Spirit of her God to guide and direct her.
There are, and there have always been women
who have led out in this effort of restoration of
God's daughters to their primal position on
His earth--their names are famed in history's
page, though probably they understood not the
spirit then agitating their minds, but they were
loosening the bands setting "gates ajar," till in
our own era we joyfully note names that would
fill a catalogue--to numerous to mention,
and no need to name them--all leading minds
know them as household words, all these have
been helpers in the restoration of woman to
her primeval grandeur of character and posi-
tion. And now comes the Latter-day Saint men


A MORMON WOMAN’S VIEWS.
				_____

	My ideas upon plural marriage are all based
upon religion.  I only accept it as a revelation
in its most sacred phase.  Mormon women
accept plural marriage as a principle of faith,
as conscientiously as they accept baptism; and
many of them have had powerful and direct
testimonies from heaven in regard to its being
correct doctrine.
	To enter practically into this holy order of
matrimony it is absolutely essential to be de-
voted soul and body to the establishment of
the Church of God upon the earth.  Religion
must be dearer than all things else, and one
must be capable of exercising great faith in
God and live nearer to Him in the strictest
sense of the word, for it necessitates laying all
upon the altar to embrace it.  The life to come
must be ever kept in view; we do not live so
much for this little interval of time here, but
to attain to an existence which is everlasting,
where progression will be eternal, and where
there will be no limit, to increase, and the ex-
altation will be glorious beyond all, “For eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it en-
tered into the heart of man to conceive.”
	Such marriages for time and for all eternity,
with so much at stake are in very deed a sacra-
ment, as all marriages should be.  It is the
most holy and sacred relation that unites man
and woman together, and demands from each
the highest and truest form of love, that love
which is founded upon principle, not impulse,
for feelings must not be allowed to control the
actions of life, but principle must be the ruling
power.
	It is only those who are pure-minded and


whole-souled who will endure the responsibili-
ties, trials and temptations incident to this pe-
culiar order of marriage, because the actual
existing circumstances are such as to require
almost constant self-discipline and unselfish
consideration for the feelings of others. This,
however, will, if persevered in, eventually re-
sult in a higher spiritual development, for the
best emotions and affections will be brought in-
to constant exercise—patience, long-suffering,
gentleness, forbearance, meekness, and that
sweet charity which teaches us to do to others
as we would wish them to do unto us, and to
love our neighbor as our self.  We have been
taught that love is selfish, that it creates jeal-
ousy, but the highest and best form of love is
that which is capable of the greatest sacrifice
for the good of another. Women who coven-
ant to live in plural marriage must be deter-
mimed to respect each other’s rights and privil-
eges and not infringe in any degree upon each
other, and must teach all the children to ob-
serve the same principles, in order to preserve
order and harmony, which must exist in the
home and family, or the spirit of the Lord and
of peace could not abide in the habitation.
	There is one other great advantage to women
in this peculiar order of marriage beside the
higher spiritual elevation, and this is the
strength of character which is necessarily de-
veloped. When there are several wives, or even
two, we will say, women are left to depend
more upon their own judgment and to take
more fully the charge of their own home and
affairs; this brings into requisition many latent
powers in woman’s nature, which would, under
other circumstances, have lain dormant, and
she finds herself capable of being something
more than a plaything, or a hot-house plant—
she becomes in a great measure the head of her
own household and the intelligent companion
of her husband. She naturally feels a posi-
tive pride in rendering herself equal to the
position, and is consequently relf-reliant, dig-
nified in character, and capable of great moral
heroism.
	This sort of compulsory education makes
women better mothers and more efficient in
the training and governing of the children, in
which so many mothers are sadly deficient.
The first principle in the management of child-
ren is self discipline. It is utterly useless to
attempt to control others when one has not ac-
quired the habit of self-control,and it is through
the lack of this self-consciousness that so many
fail in family government.
	There, are many good reasons both in nature
and in Scripture that might be brought for-
ward to prove that the practice of plural mar-
riage is consistent, as well as right and proper.
A special command has been given, and there
are circumstances and conditions that required
this change. In the very beginning, at the
creation, the first commandment given by our
Father, was, “Be fruitful and multiply and re-
plenish the earth.” Those who are at all ac-
quainted with physiology know that man’s
capacity for increase is unlimited, while with
woman it is entirely different.
	Again, when God blessed Abraham he sim-
ply said to him, “Thy posterity shall be as the
sands upon the seashore,” which was the great-
est bles ing he could bestow. There are many
other p usages in the Bible that would help to
substant  te the doctrine of a plurality of
wives, ou ve find many people who will not
accept Bio e evidence, but prefer the living
oracles, and to them no better explanation
need be given than the existing state of society,
to show that some purifying element is needed.
Men and women of the world acquainted with
the statistics of large cities testify to the cor-
ruptions that abound in them, and talk of edu-
cation and moral suasion and Christian influ-
ences being brought to bear to remedy the pre-
vailing sins of the age. But the muddy and
corrupt stream flows on still, and the few re-
formers who are, as it were, agitating the
waters seem, powerless to change the nature of
the stream in its present course. But suppose
a small part of that large stream was turned
into another channel, and an effort made to
purify it, would it be so very difficult? Rea-
son tells us no! We can all comprehend this
sort of method, and this is the way in which
the Lord intends to purify a people here upon
the earth. He has marked  out a plan by
means of which, those who will come out from
Babylon and separate themselves and partake
not of her sins, may escape the plagues and
cleanse themselves from the evils that exist,
and are increasing in the world. God’s ways 
are not as man’s ways, and when He marks out
a plan, that is the only path to be pursued in
order to attain the desired object.
	The evils that are undermining the social
structure of modern society baffle the skill of
the learned and the eminent, and the wisest
savants of the age find no sure remedy, nor will
they accept the plan marked out by the Proph-
et of God any more than would the people in
Noah's day believe him, when he was sent to 
warn them; they  must therefore abide the con-
sequences of their unbelief.
    "Custom rules us all," is an old, but true
saying. Monogamy has been so extensively
practised that tbe change to plural marriage is
like tearing down an iron wall, which requires
skill and wisdom. Men and women rave about
polygamy, as it is termed, and its evils and so
on, and if there is one woman who happens to
be dissatisfied or in any way neglected or mis-
treated consider it a sufficient pretext to make
a law to prevent the practice, while hundreds
and thousands of women are every day suffer-
ing abuse, neglect, scorn, and going down into 
untimely graves through the excess and 
wickedness of men in the world, and  it is the cus-
tom of the country. How true it is that men
seek to "pull the mote out of" another's eye
when a beam is in their own.
	One argument often used against plurality
of wives is that there is nearly an equal num-
ber of each sex born. The answer might be
many more males die from various causes, the
labors they engage in, wars, life upon the sea,
etc. But again, thousands of men never do
and never will marry, while almost every
woman inclines to marriage; it is inherent in
her very nature, and having no opportunity
for marriage, we see  thousands of women
who cannot fulfill the primeval law of their
creation. There are, of course, many points
to be considered in this connection.
    There is no limit to this subject, but in con-
clusion we will repeat what we said in the be-
ginning; we accept it in its sacred phase as a 
divine revelation,and believe it to be the con-
dition that will raise a higher standard of
morals for society, and will ultimately result in
removing the curse pronounced upon woman in
the garden of Eden, knowing that God's ways
are not as man's ways, and that "He knoweth
best" what will redeem mankind from the evils
which they have been subjected to in the past.
						MORE ANON.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING.

	The daughters of the Dean of Westminster
are preparing a book upon the Abbey, which
will be ready during the present autumn.

	Two more French ladies have received the
diploma of bacheleures-es-lettres:  Mddles Hele-
na and Marie de Vacasseo.  Three others have 
received the title of bacheleures-es-sciences:
Mddles. Revella, Liegust and Havest.

	A statue to a woman has been unveiled re-
ently in New Orleans.  The first erected to a

[Column 2]
woman in the United States.  It is to Margar
et Honhgery, who devoted her immense wealth
to the care of orphan children.

	Reports of the recent summer Matriculation
Examination at the Melbourne University state
that twenty lady candidates passed from Mel-
bourne, seven from Ballarat and three from 
Landhurst.

	Signora Carla Serena died lately at Athens.
She was born in Venice and educated in Ger-
many.  She was a woman of great literary
ability as well as grandly benevolent.  Shortly
after commencing to write for the press she be-
gan to travel, visiting Scandinavia, Greece,
Constantinople, Russia, the Caspian Sea and
Persia.  In this latter place she spent a winter
and was once arrested as a spy and under a 
strong gaurd conducted to the frontier, not-
withstanding her letters of recommendation.
Her journeyings were so charmingly written
that they appear like romances, so says the
Gazette de Torino.
	The titles of her book published in Paris are
"From the Baltic to the Caspian," "A Europe-
an Lady in Persia," "Men and Things in Per-
sia," "Alone in the Steppes," and "Excursion
in Abhasia" (on the Black Sea).  She pos-
sessed great courage and fortitude as a travel-
er, and it is said that finding no photographs
representing the Caucasus, the scene of her
book, she bought a complete photographic ap-
paratus, packed it off by mail to Tiflis and
from thence on the back of a mule and traveled
herself again through the country, taking pho-
tographic sketches, with which she returned tri-
umphant to Paris.
	
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, author of "Beyond
the Gates," has another new book just out,
"Dr. Zay"—this book is said to be the most 
fascinated one written by this celebrated au-
thoress and poet.  "Dr. Zay is a strong, sweet
womanly character."  "Women look upon her
as a tower of strength."

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has been selected by
the managers of the world's fair that is to be
opened in New Orleans in December, to pre-
side over the department of woman's work, and
has established her headquarters of the World's 
Exposition at New Orleans, at No. 5 Park 
Street, Room 10, Boston.  Mrs. Howe requests 
all connected with this work throughout the
country to communicate with her at once, and
also requests the press of the United States to
give this notice the fullest publicity, as the time
is very short.

	Women took out patents during the week
ending September 30, 1884, as follows:
	Emma G. Munn, Vassar, Mich., Heat- Indi-
cator for ovens.
	Mary M. Wagner, Baltimore, Md., Combined
bureau and bedstead; also combined folding 
bedstead and table.
	During the week ending Oct. 7, 1884, the 
following patents were granted to women:
	Nancy J. Langley, Boston, Improved Grid-
iron.
	Maria L. Mathews, Neward, N. J., Fruit
Press.
	Harriet W. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Device
for raising and lowering windows.—Ex.


The next annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association will be held in
Chicago, the third week in November.

	On the 4th of November the great national
question, who will be elected to the highest
office in the land, will be decided—and the
People’s Party in Utah will also decide an im-
portant matter by electing with an overwhelm-
ing majority Hon. John T. Caine to the 49th
Congress of the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

		[Concluded.]
*		*		*		*		*
And then ere many weeks had passed,
Again on Helen’s boy was laid
A wasting fever’s cruel power.
	O, just as keen the mother’s fears
As o’er the helpless child she prayed
	As though he knew her love and tears.

For in the mother’s heart there grew
For him, bereft of reason, more
Of watchful care and sympathy
	Than all the rest combined possessed;
Through the dark pall his spirit bore
	She loved him more than all the rest.

And, clinging to him, holding back
The life that blankly lingered here,
And pleading but to keep him still
	Within her loving care;
He awakened, and she turned to hear
	More than the answer to her prayer.

For e’en as fever’s blight had cast
His mind in gloom and silence long,
So the same strange and wond’rous power
	Consumed the fetters and restored
Freedom and light and reason strong,
	In the due season of the Lord.

“Mother,” he whispered—oh, her face
So lighted up with wond’ring joy
As she leaned o’er and took his hand;
	“Mother, have I been sick? Don’t go
Out of the room and leave your boy;
	It seems so strange here, I don’t know

Where I have been, or how I’m here.”
She searched his eyes, their look was bright,
He answered back her trembling kiss
	And raised his feeble arms as though
To clasp and keep her in his sight,
	Then fast her joyous tears did flow,

And kneeling by his couch’s side
She held him to her throbbing breast;
And, as they were alone with God–
	“Father, it is Thy power, I know,
For Thou hast heard my prayers and blessed
	My soul with joys that overflow.”

A step drew near; she raised her hand—
“Dear wife, may I not join you yet
And share the vigils of your love?”
	Then something in her face he saw,
And in the eyes his question met,
	That filled and thrilled his soul with awe.

And as their son looked up to him
The wond’rous miracle he learned
And knelt in gratitude with her.
	“Dear wife, it is thy soul’s reward—
Our dear child’s reason has returned
	To him by favor of the Lord.

“Mine eldest son, my firstborn hope! 
Through him the Lord thy spirit proved;
Thou didst not blame or vainly mourn,
	But bore in patience His decree,
And on the altar—faith unmoved—
	Brought down His blessing upon thee.

“For love thou gavest Virginia’s child
God hath restored to thee thine own,
Nor moved him from his birthright’s place.
	For this Thy mercy we renew
Onr covenants before Thy throne,
	While here on earth, Thy will to do.”

Like some sweet music, rapturous, new,
Virginia the glad tidings heard,
And hastening to Helen’s side
	Saw in the boy’s changed, gentle face,
A look that all her being stirred
	And made the room a ascred place.

Oh, happier than ever now
The blessed days and weeks went on,
For gratitude made blest content.
	Each felt the other’s soul to be
One which from God Himself had drawn
	Approval that all Saints might see.
*		*		*		*		*
Row above row the lights flashed out,
The music hushed, a pause, and then

[Column 2]
A prelude strangely sweet stole forth,
	Half dreamy waltz, then as some bird
High soaring over hill and glen
	Till in the clouds the last is heard.

And while the echoes scarce had died
The singer came; their greeting bore
Not welcome only, but their praise.
	Oh, grandly beautiful she stood,
And cadence, and expression wore
	A pathos that no heart withstood,

Virginia’s eyes grew large and dark,
Her tender face still paler grew,
And as the strange, sweet singer, rapt
	In harmonies all but divine,
Poured out her soul, one hearer knew
	A dying life inspired each line.

Virginia followed tone by tone,
She knew the weariness and woe; 
And when the wav’ring figure passed
	From sight she said: “Take me to her,
I knew her once, not long ago;”
	Her husband rose without demur.

Almost too late, for marble like
The earth worn singer fainting lay,
Alone, afar from home and love;
	Virginia stood beside her, then
Found strength above her fears to say:
	“Signora, do we meet again?”

A thrill passed o’er the weary face.
The lustrous eyes looked up to see
The gentle speaker. Radiant joy
	Illumed her face “Virginia—thou?
Virginia—never more leave me,
	For thou art all I cling to now.”

She sang no more. They brought her home,
And in the few fleet days they learned
The lovely wanderer’s hapless fate.
	The phantom love that lured her on
To faithlessness, neglect, had turned
	And hope and strength at last were gone.

“Teach me thy faith, Virginia, now 
What thou doth cherish I receive;
Teach me thy peace and hope so sure;
	My babe again? and linked with thee?
Reason and love thy words believe—
	I wait thee in eternity.”

So died Honora in her arms,
And soon the sacred work was done—
The ordinances for the dead;
	And unto him she loved she gave
The dear and lost, the gifted one
	Resting at last within the grave.

Oft through her sleep came holy dreams,
And waking hours their meaning brought,
And threw a light on sacred lines;
	And whether in that dearest place,
Her home, or where her footsteps sought
	The poor and sorrowing, her face

Grew sweeter, nobler, year by year.
Time wrote fresh truths on her soul’s page, 
Adding that royal mien which comes
	To those who teach, and lead, and bless.
Until more beautiful is age
	Than even youth’s own loveliness.

And while through daily scenes she passed. 
She listened for the “still small voice”.
And closer sought God’s mysteries.
	Counting no sacrifice as loss,
But in its offering to rejoice,
	As fires that burn away the dross.

Adown the waking hours of night
Grand intuitions softly came
Of earth’s and heaven’s futurity.
	And through long hours with prayer alone,
Around her swept the holy flame,
	And wond’rous glories there were shown.

No savant’s love so deep as this—
No gems so rich and joy so sweet—
And naught so poor as this vain life.
	Like one who but prepares to go,
Yet first each duty would complete,
	These lines my pen has striven to show.

And these are “Mormon women." Seek
Through every vale where Saints abide,

[Column 3]
Like faith and purity are there.
	Though waves of hate and death may roll,
They cannot quench God’s light, nor hide
	His pathway from each martyr’s soul.

And when these lines of mine are read,
How many there will be who’ll say,
"I did not think she knew my life!”
	For oh, this story is the fruit
Of one grand Tree whose strength to-day
	Finds in ten thousand homes its root.

“Bearing such love as theirs?” Ah, yes,
I meet and find it everywhere;
Dearer than life, more strong than death;
	I recognize it as the sign
Of that which Gods and angels share—
	A portion of the Love Divine.

And now, dear friend, if I have used
My truthful pen not all in vain'
And you would wish to further search
	Still other points we hold as well,
O may some abler pen make plain
	Their truth and beauty. So, farewell.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, 1882.


A PLEASANT GATHERING. 

Monday evening, Oct. 20th, the Y. L. M. I.
A. of the Eleventh Ward, held their annual 
meeting and gave a dinner in the Assembly
Rooms of that ward, Mrs. Mary Freeze presid-
ing. There were present the Presidency of this
Stake, Angus M. Cannon, Joseph E. Taylor
and C. W. Penrose; also Bishop McRae and
Counselor Robert Morris; Sisters Clara C. Can-
non, Maggie Y. Young, E. B. Wells, H. M.
Whitney, Nellie Colebrook and Martha H.
Tingey.
 There was a very fine programme after din-
ner. in which the young ladies who took part
did themselves great credit. The historical
sketch from the Bible by Miss Sampson being
especially good. Miss Tucket’s lecture on
health and Miss Ciclia Colam's essay were
well written and very appropriate. The 
singing by Miss Maggie Freeze was pleasing
and made an agreable variety, and the other
recitations and essays were a success. In fact
the whole programme was tastefully arranged,
and the manner of rendering merited praise,
as well as the promptness with which each one
responded.
 Remarks were made, suitable to the occasion,
by the sisters first, followed by the brethren.
It was a pleasant and social affair, and much
good instruction was given by the speakers,
calculated to encourage and promote the growth
of the association.


NOTES AND NEWS.
				______

	A woman suffrage convention will be held in
Lexington, Ky., Nov. 5 and 6, under the aus-
pices of Mrs. Mary B. Clay, of Whitehall, Ky.,
president of the American Woman Suffrage
Association.  Mrs. Gougar and Mrs. May
Wright Sewall,of Indiana, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert, of Illinois, are among the
speakers.—Ex.
	Woman Suffrage is being discussed in the
Normal Institutes in Iowa.  Two Hundred
teachers in Des Moines, offer a discussion of
the question, decided in favor.  P of. Akers,
State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
said recently in a lecture, “The equal citizen-
ship of women is coming—coming rapidly—
and no man can stop it!”  The sentiment was
highly applauded.—Ex.
	“A monument in the shape of a simple obe-
lisk bearing the relief portraits of Dr. Martin
Luther and his Katie—“Dame Zolsdoerferin,”
as he was wont to call her—was recently erec-
ted on the site of the homestead in which she
passed the years of her widowhood.”


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
______________________________________________

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: pe[-] month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.	
EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.
______________________________________________

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1884.


﻿THE LATEST SENSATION.
				______

	Salt Lake has certainly had a sensational
topic during the past few weeks in the Clawson
trial.  The principal persons and most of the
witnesses summoned were people so well known
and so highly respected that the feeling and
sympathy have been most intense in relation to
the matter.
	The daily papers have had plenty of items to
make their columns attractive, and the tele-
graph operators have had  a good supply of regu-
lar messages to transmit over the wires.
Judges, lawyers, prosecuting attorneys, mar
shalls and their deputies, have all been exces-
sively busy; indeed it was the general remark on
the street, when one met a friend, “Have you
been served with a subpoena?"
	The trial was fraught with the deepest inter-
est, not only to the immediate friends and per-
sonal acquaintances of the defendent, but to the
Latter-day Saints generally, and the anxiety
has not lessenad in regard to the result.
	The lawyers employed for the defendant
made some very able speeches, and if these are
read by the people generally they will get a
more correct idea of the true status of the rights
and privileges that are to be observed in all
cases, and of the justice to which every indi-
vidual person is entitled.  We should be glad
to publish the speeches of Lawyer Bennett and
the Hon. F. S. Richards, but our columns are
not sufficient, but we advise all the ladies who
have not read them to read them carefully.  Our
sisters should take care to inform themselves in
regard to public matters, the transactions of
courts, the empanneling of juries, and while
having the franchise know something of the
government, its executive and judicial power
and authority, and not be deceived as to the ex-
tent of power an officer holds.  As, for instance,
to believe contempt of court is felony and simi-
lar things.
	Rudger Clawson is a young man born and
raised in this community, exemplary in his
life and conduct, moral in every respect, not-
withstanding all the cruel and wicked asper-
sions cast upon him because he believes in
plural marriage, and has conscientiously ac-
cepted it practically.  He is a devoted Latter-
day Saint, and has been from his boyhood up.
He proved his valor for the truth when in
Georgia at the time Elder Standing was shot
down by the mob, and he no doubt accepts the
Savior’s words in their full meaning, “Fear not
him who can kill the body, but fear him who
can cast both soul and body into hell.”  God will
watch over his people continually, and will de-
liver them from the hands of the wicked and
ungodly, although some may have to suffer
from the oppression of their enemies, yet will
He make the wrath of man to praise him, even
as He hath said so it shall be.
	Rudger Clawson is one of those who would
rather die than prove unworthy the cause he
has espoused, or untrue to his integrity as a
Latter-day Saint.
	And, after all, what will be gained by his con-
viction?  What honor or glory will it be to any
man or to the Federal Courts of Utah Territory?
They know very well that he married Lydia
Spencer conscientiously, believing it to be a
solemn obligation and no doubt considering all
the consequences it might involve, yet bravely
trusting in divine power, and praying for infi-
nite wisdom to direct him aright.  There is no
doubt a time will come when men will find that
there are graver and more serious difficulties to
adjust than the family relations of the “Mor-
mons.”  But for the present they gracefully
submit to the powers that be, ever hoping and
anticipating the good time coming, when jus-
tice shall be meted out to all, and then “Mor-
mons” will have as many rights allowed them
as other citizens of this great commonwealth.


﻿NOVEMBER ELECTION.

	It may be the opinion of some that this elec-
tion is not an important one because they feel so
sure of the strength of the People's Party. But
has it not always been the case when large
masses of people have been confident of
winning that the minority have come in and
carried off some of the honors. Not that the
Liberals could have any particular power at
present, but it is most unbecoming in the Peo-,
ple’s Party, under the present circumstances, to
be found luke-warm. To be up and doing and
each one at his post with the watch word “be
ye always ready," should be the aim of the
People’s Party at this most momentous time.
Young men and women should consider it not
only a duty, but a pleasure to go to the polls
and vote, for it is for them and their interests,
more than for their father’s and mother’s, that
they should be valiant. It is well for them if
they have had the necessary instruction and
discipline. Some are too lackadaisical for their
own good, and forget that it is the duty of each
individual to represent him or herself by the
ballot. The candidate, John T. Caine, is a man
of whose life and character not even his bitter-
est opposers can say anything disparaging,
and the People’s Party may well be proud of
such a delegate. There is every reason why he
should have the largest number of votes it is
possible to poll. The young people who are now
called upon more particularly to take the greater
responsibility ought to be up and awake and
seek to maintain the rights of the people of
Utah, that the citizens, who are now disfran-
chised, laid the foundation of and made it easy
for them to build, upon. Let no opportunity pass
wherein you can show your integrity to the
People’s Party. It would be culpable indeed in
the young women as well as the young men if
they do not come out and vote on this grand oc-
casion. The privileges of this people are few
enough already, but by all means maintain those
few with dignity, and prove yourselves deserv-
ing of more by your diligence and vigilance in
every place where there is an opportunity. Let
the Utah delegate go to Congress with the as-
surance made doubly sure, by the enormous
number of votes cast for him, that he is not
only the choice of the People’s Party, but that
they are ready to accord him all honor, and
prove their confidence in him by their works as
well as words.


[Column 1]
			EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE will be a rally of the People's Party in
this city on Monday evening, Nov. 3rd, at 7
o'clock, in the theatre in this city.

[Column 2]
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and H. M. Whitney at-
tended the Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake, held at East Bountiful,
Oct. 27.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Eighth Ward had
an interesting time on Wednesday, the 29th. A
meeting and sociable to which many guests
were invited. These re-unions are calculated to
create a good feeling and promote harmony in
the work of improvement.
	We gratefully acknowledge a beautiful bou-
quet of choice late flowers, which came like a
sunbeam, from Mrs. Jane Holt of East Boun-
tiful; also some pretty, sweet-scented wild
flowers and gaily colored Autumn leaves, from
little Caroline Crocheron.
	THE semi-monthly meeting of the Senior Re-
trenchment Association was held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 18th, Coun.
S. M. Kimball presiding. The meeting was
well attended and the remarks and addresses by
the ladies were very interesting, so we are in-
formed, but as we were not able to attend and
have not seen the minutes, we cannot give a
proper report to our readers.
	Miss Mabel Sherman Crawford, who vis-
ited this city recently, spent a morning in our
office, and we had a most interesting interview.
She is an ardent advocate of woman's suffrage,
and is one of the leading women of the suffrage
party in England. She has landed estates in
Ireland, and gave us considerable information
upon the condition of the people in the Emer-
ald Isle. She is liberal and philanthropical in
her character and views, in a brilliant conversa-
tionalist and has traveled extensively.
	A MEETING of the People's Party was held at
Provo on the evening of Oct. 29th. The brass
band met the delegate and his party at the
depot and escorted them to the place of meeting,
where a large crowd were waiting. Opening re-
marks by Judge Dusenberry; John C Graham,
Chairman. Speeches by Hon. John T. Caine,
and James Sharp. The meeting was an en-
thusiastic one, and will, undoubtedly, be pro-
ductive of good, and induce many who are dila-
tory to turn out and vote at the coming election.
	"The Golden Gems of Life," or "Gathered
Jewels for the Home Circle," is the title of a
book now being canvassed for by Mrs. S. M.
White of this city. The book contaius 608
pages, is printed on tinted paper in large, clear
type and handsomely bound. the subjects are
such as recommend the book even before read-
ing it, and the essays, for such they seem to be,
are well written, simple in language and clear
in style, and adapted for home life. The sub-
jests first treated upon are Life, Home, Home
Circle, Father and Mother, Infancy Childhood,
Brother and Sister, Manhood, Womanhood, and
so on. It is decidedly a very good book, and one
from which much may be learned, and it ought
to have a wide circulation. The Editors are S. C.
Ferguson and E. H. Allen, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Morocco and gilt binding, $5.75; silver finish
cloth, $4.75; half morocco, $4.50; green cloth $3.75.
   Mrs. Emimy Pfeiffer, poet and author,
lately visited Salt Lake accompanied by her
husband. They remained about four days here,
seeing the places of interest. Mr. and Mrs.
Pfeiffer are both interested in woman's suffrage,
and the lady has written several articles as well
as poems upon the subject, that have attracted
some attention and been the subject of consider-
able comment in London society. Mrs Pfeiffer
writes for "The Spectator" and "Contemporary
Review." Her books have all gone through two
and some through three editions. The titles
are, "Gerard Monument," "Poems," "Quarter-
mass Grace," "Glan Alaeck," "Under the As-


pens,” “The Rhyme of the Lady of the Rock,”
a poem of two hundred.'and fifty pages—
“Sonnets and Songs.”  Mrs. Pfeiffer is much in-
terested in the subject of dress reform, enter-
taining the view that the, present style of dress
Is neither healthful nor graceful.  She was much
impressed with Sister Eliza R Snow Smith;
thought her a most remarkable character, and
expressed her admiration of the woman and her
wonderful work.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							

_____________________________________________________________________________________


A ROUSING MEETING AND STIRRING
				SPEECHES.

			COALVILLE, October 28, 1884.
	A large and attentive audience greeted Hon-
John T. Caine and party here last night, and
everybody was well entertained by the eloquent
addresses of the speakers. Every speaker was
the recipient of an unusual amount of applause
from the enthusiastic audience, which indicated
that they concurred with the speaker in the
ideas which were advanced, and the rebukes
administered upon the illiberal Liberals.
	John T. Caine delivered a most interesting ad-
dress, which gave evidence of diligent historic-
al research, and which was interspersed with
most profound logic. It showed how utterly un-
just it would be—if not unconstitutional—for
Congress to delegate the power of making the
laws for this Territory to a legislative commis-
sion; to abolish our Territorial form of govern-
ment and place our lives and our destinies in the
hands of a few grasping spoliators; to deprive
150,000 loyal American citizens of the right of
local self-government.  He cited authorities
from adjudged cases in the United States,and
quoted English history to support him in his
arguments. He ridiculed the remark made by
Ransford Smith, in Ogden, on Saturday last, to
the effect that he (Smith) would “excoriate”the
Democratic party for refusing to adopt a resolu-
tion offered by him last June in the Democratic
convention at Chicago, and particularly em-
phasized Smith’s proviso, '‘If I had time.” Mr.
Caine thought it would be really amusing to
witness Mr. Smith’s attempt to “excoriate”such
men as Benjaman F. Butler and Speaker Car-
lisle,and sympathised with him because he had
not the learning to support his pedantry nor the
bravery to support his egotism.
	Mr. Kenner mentioned how curious it was that
Ransford Smith, in his bombastic oration in
Ogden, had so carefully avoided the point at is-
sue—politics—but had been guilty of consider-
able plagiarism by quoting what could be found
in about five hundred law books, defining poly-
gamy and showing that there was little distinc-
tion between a principal and accessories to a
crime. He spoke of how the majority polled by
the People’s Party in each succeeding election
constantly increased notwithstanding the op-
position of the Liberals. He thought the Liber-
als had receded from point to point until there
was nothing left, but the name, and that was a
mi[-]nomer; and that ephemeral party would soon
pass "where the woodbine twineth.” He won-
dered if Mr. Smith would court like a woman,
for Smith said he would'do it “like a man,” and
wanted to know If Mr. Smith thought there
were nineteen women who would have him if
he did believe in polygamy.
	The addresses by the other gentlemen were
much shorter, as the lateness of the hour pre-
vented a very lengthy discussion of the matter
by all parties.
	Mr. Dusenberry explained how unjust the
Liberals were to accuse the people of Utah of
nullifying the laws simply because they deemed
it prudent to appeal from the decisions of some of
our mission judges in Utah.
	Mr. Sloan showed how  the diligence, and
hardihood of the Mormons had built up and de-
veloped Utah, and said it was all owing to their
peculiar religious system, which bound the peo-
ple together by ties of brotherly love.
	Mr. Sharp wondered how it was that Ransford
Smith admitted that he knew nothing of the
Mormon religion nor polygamy, but still pro-
ceeded to discuss both in a very scientific way.
	The audience was well pleased with the meet-
ing, and went home with a determination to
"wake up," as Judge Dusenberry said. The
Coalville brass band was present on the occasion
and played the “Swanee Ribbar” three times to
“ the attentive assembly.—EX.
						THUCYDIDES.


ADDRESS.

BY THE PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CENTRAL
COMMITTEE.
TO THE PEOPLE OF UTAH TERRITORY:
	The election to be held Nov. 4th, 1884, for
Delegate to the Forty-ninth Congress, is one of
unusual importance and political significance to
the people of Utah.
	At no time since the organization of the Ter-
ritorial government has there existed stronger
reasons for an unequivocal manifestation of the
full strength and influence of the People's party.
The friends of free government find themselves
to-day, as in years past, opposed by an unscru-
pulous revolutionary faction composed, it is true,
of an insignificant minority of our population,
yet seeking by the establishment of a Legisla-
tive Commission to subvert and abolish the
forms of free government and wrest from the
people the last semblance of political liberty.
That faction whose only achievements in the
past has been to seek by misrepresentation and
slander to blight the fair face of Utah with a
pestilence worse than death, now has the un-
blushing effrontery to invoke your suffrages for
a candidate who stands upon a platform dedica-
ted to the proposition that you are unworthy the
boon of suffrage. A candidate who seeks by
the vote of his  fellow citizens to obtain power to
deprive them of the right to vote is certainly an
anomaly in American politics, and the idea is
peculiarly characteristic of the minority faction
in this Territory.
	The election of 1882 for Delegate to Congress
was rendered conspicuous by its being the first
under the operation of the Edmunds law; and
notwithstanding the disfranchisement of a
large portion of the People's party, the candi-
date of that party was elected by an almost un-
precedented majority and the opposing faction
nearly demoralized, as manifested by its recent
feeble effort at reorganization.
	We call your attention to the fact that the is-
sues are the same to-day as they were in 1882,
viz: the perpetuation of free government in the
hands of the majority as against the establish-
ment of the worst form of despotism in the
hands of the minority. The candidate of the 
People's party has been tried in the position and
has proved himself adequate to the discharge of
every duty and responsibility pertaining thereto;
he was unanimously nominated for re-election
by a regular convention of the People's Party; it
is therefore our duty to elect him by an increased
majority in proportion at least to the increase of
population since 1882, and at the same time ad-
minister again a terrible rebuke to the cham-
pions of despotism and the enemies of free gov-
ernment.
	By the People's Territorial Central Commit-
tee.

JOHN SHARP, Chairmen,
THEO MCKEAN, Secretary.
Salt Lake City, October 24, 1884.


SALT LAKE CITY HOSPITALS.

	MTS. B. SPURLOCK..

	“For whosoever shall do the will of my Father
which is in heaven the same is my brother and
sister and mother,” prompted me to seek out
those whose hearts were tender and true to suf-
fering humanity; that I might clasp hands with
them and whisper a word of comfort to those
whose keeping was entrusted to their care in
this city.
	First in course I came to St. Marks Hospital,
well governed methought, for “immediately”
was the watchword of the writer of that most
positive epistle that bears his name. Here we
found the kind, intelligent gentlewoman, Mrs.
Prout, in the keeping of the same, who has giv-
en direction and carried it forward for years.
Everywhere an atmosphere of comfort and
quiet and continuous attention is to be observed.
The inmates were cheered at my coming, and
I realized the truth of the wise man’s proverb,
“It is more blessed to go to the house of mourn-
ing than to a house of rejoicing.”
	Next I visited the “Hospital of the Holy
Cross.” This name, too, is talismanic, and no
misnomer, wide spreading gronnds beautifully
designed, and a magnificent building, delighting
the eye of the passer-by and cheering the in-
coming patients. Here “Sisters of the Sacred
Heart,” are moving up and down the commodi-
ous halls, in and out of the wards with noiseless
tread. Prayerfully I trow, administering to the
wants of others, in the name of the immaculate
Lamb of Calvary, who gave His life a ransom
for earth’s perishing millions. I thought the
ministry of theirs was God-like and these will
have an abundant entrance to the city that is
eternal.
	Third, and last in our course, came the “Des-
eret Hospital,” “A rock in a weary land,” a
Bethel on the plains beside the sea.
	Here we find the old Deseret University con-
verted into an “infirmary,” giving to its in-
mates large, airy rooms, well arranged and a de-
lightful ventilation. An air of home-like feel-
ing greets you on its very threshold; the kind-
-hearted, sweet-faced matron, “Sister Jones,” al-
ways greets you with a warm welcome. The
patients are in the main ladies, and among the
number are some that are aged, but their hearts
are young and tender with love's beautiful touch
of perennial spring, gladness and patient endur-
ance. Young mothers are there that must
needs come from afar to have medical skill not
possible at home; but the gentle, efficient care
that they there receive shortens the hours and
brings the loved ones at home near by, even
though the crib is rocked by other hands than
“mama's,” and hushed by other “lullabys” than
“Hush my babe.”
	This Hospital is under the medical advise-
ment of a young talented Miss M. P. Hughes,
M. D. She is a graduate of a three fold diplo-
matic inheritance; by dint of almost unpreced-
ented study and indefatigable energy. She
staggers not at the most difficult clinical or sur-
gical work of the Hospital. she has at this
time a case of the most intricate and complica-
ted hip joint disease, which she is handling with
marked ability and satisfaction. It is certainly
very complimentary for one of her years and
brevity of practice.
	Closing I will say of these homes for the af-
flicted: They have no holidays of “red tape,”
exhibit. I have been there in the morning early,
at noon time high, and at dusky eve; and have
ever found the same watchful vigilance and
tender care being evinced. Parting from one of
the present patients, just as we were taking our
departure she beckoned us back and said: “Oh
they are so kind to us here; we are treated just


like queens.” To those who keep away from
these homes of suffering, I would say you rob
God of your power to cheer and comfort others
and lose the—“inasmuch as you have done it
unto the least of these you have done it unto
me.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VICTORIA'S SPEECH.

	By foreign telegram we learn Parliament re-
assembled October 23rd,the Queen's speech open-
ing the session.

"MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:

	I have brought you together to enable you to
further consider the great subject of representa-
tion of the people. I continue to maintain rela-
tions of amity with all foreign powers. Infor-
mation from Soudan includes painful uncertain-
ty, but the energy, courage and resources con-
spicuously displayed by General Gordon in the
successful defense of Khartoum deserves my
warm recognition- The advance of my troops
to Dongola has for its object the rescue and se-
curity of that gallant officer and of those who
have so faithfully co-operated with him. I am
using my best endeavors in Egypt to promote
the further improvement of affairs there. I
have given my support to the Egyptian govern-
ment in the difficult financial position in which
it was left through the failure of the recent con-
ference. I regret the occurrence of the Trans-
vasl difficulty, and am considering, with the
Cape government, means to secure the observ-
ance of the convention.

GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS:

	The operations in the Soudan render it neces-
sary to ask of you farther pecuniary provisions.

MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN

	The bill for the extension of the Parliamen-
tary franchise will be at once introduced.  May
the blessing of God attend your labors.


PATTY SESSIONS.
[Continued.]
Looking over the diary kept by Sister Ses-
sions of her journeyings from the State of
Maine all the way up to Missouri in 1837, I
found many interesting items, but to attempt to
give them here would occupy too much space,
but I noticed one or two things that transpired
in Missouri that I thought proper to mention.
She says that on the 7th of January, 1838,
Elder Lyman Wight and Father Morley
preached, and in the evening there was a bless-
ing meeting, and her husband, herself, Peregrine,
Julia and Slyvia, her children, received a pa-
triarchal blessing under the hands of Father
Morley. She writes again on the 4th of Feb-
ruary that she is 43 years old; says, “Father
Morley came down and held a blessing meeting
at Bro. Daniel’s last night, preaches here to-
day.”
	Sister Sessions carries her babe to the meet-
ing and has it blessed according to the order of
the Church. She writes, “I rejoice that I live
in a day when the gifts and blessings are res-
tored and ordinances attended to as in days of
old. 25 th. To-day we go to the city to hear
Joseph the Prophet preach. April 6th go to
the city to the anniversary meeting; 14th make
a visit to Joseph Smith; 21st Sylvia was mar-
ried to Windsor P. Lyon, Joseph Smith per-
formed the ceremony. David W. Patten was
here when Sylvia was married and preached,
while here, at Peregrine’s. The next day the
Prophet was there and a good time it was.
Last Sunday we went to hear Brigham
Young, it being the 29th day of April.”
	During all this time we find Sister Sessions
performing daily household duties and attend-
ing obstetrical cases regularly. Very frequently
one sees in her diary entries like this: “Rode
twelve miles last night, put Sister ---- to bed,
fine boy, etc. --rode six miles and put Sister ----
to bed with a pair of twins, difficult case, se-
vere labor, but the Lord blessed us and we got
through all right, patient safe, etc.” July 16
Sister Sessions says Peregrine started for the
East, a journey of about two thousand miles,
left us all well; the middle of August we all
were taken sick with fever and ague. Nov. 1
Far West surrendered and we were ordered by
the government to leave the State of Missouri;
29th of Nov. Peregrine returned home from
the East. February 15 we leave our home and
calculate to leave the State, get to Branch
Creek the first night in company with Bros.
Burnham, York, Pack, and all our families.
16, go to Tinney’s Grove; 17, get on to the 20
mile prairie; 18, get to Thomas’ tent; 19, get to
Henry Ashley’s, go into the house and get
some coverlets;  *  20, go through
Keatsville, tent at night; 21, go through Hunts-
ville, tent again; 22, go to Mr. Grimin’s,stay in
the house; 23rd go to Rayland’s, stay in a
house, it rains and we stay over Sunday, the
24th, find the folks very accomodating; 25th
go on and find very muddy roads, tent out;
26th still muddy, and we have to tent out, cold,
wet and inclement, no shelter but a tent, a sick
babe and no comforts. Trust in God and pray
for courage and endurance. 27th, roads very
bad, but we reach the banks of the river and
find many of our brethren and sisters encamped
on the bank that cannot get across. Have got
a very good place for tenting, but the wind
blows hard; it is cold and there is some snow
falling. There is no crossing with a ferry boat
now, the river is full of ice.”
	March 1st 2nd and 3rd, according to the
journal, continues much the same. She speaks
of visiting a sick child, and of the child dying.
She was sent for far and near in times of sick-
ness for advice and assistance.
	The 5th day the Saints began to cross over
to the other side. The 6th, ice almost out of
the river. The 7th, the wind blew fiercely,
making it difficult to cross. On the 8th
Windsor and Sylvia cross the river; Julia was
taken sick, bnt on the 9th Bro. and Sister Ses-
sions and family go over and stay all night at
Quincy. The 10th they go on, and Julia be-
ing very sick they are obliged to stop and have
the Elders administer to her. The days are
much the same, they move on a few miles at a
time, and meanwhile Sister Sessions takes the
ague, and both herself and her daughter Julia
are very ill.
	On the 14th they arrive at Carthage, find a
house to go into. About the first week in
April, after one or two more changes, they
move into a house of their own.
	On the 27th of June her son Peregrine
started east on a mission in company with Bro.
McArthur and Bro. Jackson. On the 2nd of
May, 1840, the family move to Nauvoo, and on
the 2nd of June Peregrine returns from his
mission. Bro. Sessions builds a house, and
in September of the same year they move in-
to it.
	The next event of importance Sister Sessions
has recorded in her diary is the death of her
little daughter, the babe she brought in her
arms from Missouri in the middle of winter.
She died with croup. This seems to have been
a heavy affliction for the fond mother, but she
prays for strength and grace, and she has left
in her diary these precious words, “The Lord
giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” The little one was
three years, six months and one day old
	On the 11th of June, 1842, Bro. Sessions
started for the State of Maine with Bro. Pack.
She writes: “He left me alone, and I am very
lonesome.” That was Saturday, but the next
day she went to meeting and Orson Pratt

[Column 3]
preached in the morning and she was refreshed.
In the afternoon there was a temperance lecture
by a Mr. Miller, and G. Bishop and Wm.
Marks spoke. From this time she seems to
have been more busy than ever with her pro-
fession. She speaks of visits from Bro. Joseph
and Bro. Willard Richards, and on the 18th
she says Joseph spoke concerning Dr. Bennett
and cut him off the Church.
	On the 23rd Sister Sessions speaks of attend-
ing “theFemale Relief Society,and on the 24th,
went to see the Masons and hear an oration.
On the 25th, went to visit Mother Smith. 26th,
went to meeting and heard Brigham Young
preach in the morning and Bro. Cahoon in the
afternoon.” On the 4th of July she speaks of
the parade, and on the 7th she went to the Re-
lief Society again. Again on the 10th went
to meeting and Bro. Woodruff preached. On
the 23rd of July Sister Sessions writes in her
diary, “Mother Smith was here to visit me,”
and on the 24th went to the Relief Society and
signed a petition to send to the governor of the
state.” This was the first petition of the Relief
Society, and it was then quite an event in the
history of women.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			PANGUITCH.
Editor Exponent:
	The young ladies of this place held their an-
nual election on the 5th of the present month,
at which the following officers were sustained
for the ensuing year: Mrs. Elizabeth Sevy,
President; Sarah Houston and Alice Clark,
Counselors; Miss Eva Crosby, Secretary and
Treasurer; Miss Christie Henrie, Ass’t Sec.;
Miss Minnie Sevy, Corresponding Sec,
	A visit from some of the visiting sisters from
Salt Lake would be much appreciated.
			Respectfully Yours,
					MARY H. SEVY.

	PLEASANTON, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Because we live in an out of the way place
we do not wish to be forgotten by our brothers
and sisters in the northern country. We have
a very pretty place here. We have nice
farming land, where we can raise anything
that is planted; there is, also, a large, beauti-
ful stream of water running on the west side
of the valley, and on the ease side of the valley
is a large range of mountains, which are called
the Moggoblon.
	We have a Relief Society, which was organ-
ized in 1883, with its worthy President, Lu-
cretia Maxwell, and her Counselors, Jane Max-
well and Almeda McClellan. Our Relief So-
ciety consists of nineteen members. We also
have a Y. M. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tion.
	The only objection I have to this place is
that we are thrown tod much under the outside
influence; but if we will strive with the sincer-
ity of our hearts the blessings of the Lord will
be poured out upon us, and we need not walk
in darkness; we who have made covenants to
keep the commandments of God to the best of
our abilities need not go astray. I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
				LILLIAS S. MAXWELL.

		WASATCH STAKE.
Conference of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in Heber
City Hall, Sept. 28th, 1884. On the stand
were President Emma Brown and her Counsel-
ors; also several of the brethren.
	Our conference being held on the Sabbath
day we had a very large attendance. The
choir favored us with some of their sweetest


songs, which made our meeting a very enjoy-
able one. Prayer was offered by Bro. Hicksen.
Minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved. Written reports were read, which
showed the Society financially in a very good
condition. The Presidents of the several wards
gave in very favorable reports. Sitsers Rich-
ards and Taylor were with us, which made our
meeting more than usually interesting.
	Sister Richards, in her quiet, loving way,
gave us the very best of counsel; to mothers
in particular, to see after their children, their
daughters, to know where they are and who
they are associating with.
	Sister Taylor said without the Spirit of God
she would be unable to say anything to benefit
her sisters. Said we should always attend our
meetings if possible; we would feel better, and
make better wives and better mothers. Never
allow our children to be taught by those who
are not of our faith. Said we should try and
improve ourselves that we may become good
financiers.
	Sister Brown spoke a short time, felt to thank
the sisters for coming to visit us, and hoped
the sisters would profit by the good counsel
they had received. Singing, “God moves in a
mysterious way,” etc. Benediction by Bro.
John Murdock.
	MARY BRONSON, Sec.

	PIMA, ARIZONA
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies’ Quarterly Conference of this
stake convened at Pima, October 3rd, at 10
a.m., President Willmirth East presiding.
Singing. Prayer by President C. Layton.
Singing. Minutes and reports read and ap-
proved. Verbal reports were then given by
the presidents of their respective wards. 
	President East then addressed the conference.
Some of the most important subjects treated
upon by her were punctuality to be observed
in the society; mothers to teach their children
to be honest and to attend to their prayers; en-
courage home industry in all its branches; that
we honor the principles of celestial marriage,
and discourage speaking lightly or holding in
derision that sacred principle. Said we live
in an eventful period, and that we should pre-
pare ourselves, for the trials that await us re-
quired us to be humble and prayerful. In-
structed the sisters to note the date of sub-
scribing for the EXYONENT, so as to be pre-
pared to renew the same when due, and to try
and encourage the circulation of the paper.
Spoke very encouragingly to the sisters on the
subject of storing grain.
	President Layton was the next speaker.—
Expressed his pleasure at meeting with the sis-
ters in a conference capacity; also in hearing
the reports of the different branches of Relief
Society in the several wards; asked us to be
kind to the poor and administer to their wants,
and comfort those who are called to mourn.
Invoked the blessings of God upon us.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction by
Mary L. Ransom.
	2 p.m. After the usual opening exercises
the local officers were presented before the
conference and sustained. The time was then
devoted to the Y. L. and P. A. in hearing re-
ports, and instructing the young upon the
principles of their religion. Closing remarks
by a sister, who had lately come from Salt
Lake City, who said she had attended a great
many conferences, but had never heard more
important subjects treated upon than those in-
troduced by the presiding board during the
conference. Dwelt upon the subject of faith
as being one of the leading features of our re-
ligion.
	Conference adjourned to meet at St. David,
Friday, January 2nd, 1885: Benediction by
Patriarch McBride.
	LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

	BY HELEN MAE WHITNEY.

	(Continued.) 
	The father of Zebedee Coltron died in our
camp on the night of the 31st, also another
man who had traveled with Dr. Patten.
	On the evening of September 1st Brother
Woodworth and family arrived; all sick. They
encamped outside ofthe square a little distance
from our tent. We had a temporary bedstead
prepared and took their daughter, Flora Gove,
into our tent, where I nursed her until she re-
covered her strength. Her husband was also
sick with fever; she had lain helpless for many
days, and her heavy raven locks were so matted
together that it took me hours to comb them
out. We had lived neighbors in Nauvoo, and
were old schoolmates. She was older than my-
self and was sealed to the Prophet Joseph as
his wife. This happened before I was aware of
the principle. A young man boarding at her
father’s, after the death of Joseph not a mem-
ber of the Church had sought her hand, in
time won her heart, and in a reckless moment
she was induced to accept his offer and they
eloped to Carthage, accompanied by a young
lady friend,and were there married by a Justice
of the Peace. Flora was never happy with
him as he hated the Mormons, and she felt
condemned for the rash step she had taken.
She made this confession to me while I was
nursing her, and said she desired to cling to
Joseph hereafter.
	They settled at the “Point,” and she paid me
a visit the following winter. She still expressed
herself as strong in the faith of the Gospel,
also her great desire to cleave to the Prophet.
I never saw her again as she died at that place,
leaving two or three children. Joseph Smith
gave her father the title of “Pagan Prophet.”
He came with his family to the Valley, where
he left them and went to California and never
returned. Her mother was a true saint and a
very gifted woman, well known and respected
by thousands of the saints in Utah. 
	I have given this little incident in the life of
Flora truthfully, and it ought to teach a lesson
to those who read it, for no Latter-day Saint
can find happiness in marriage with an unbe-
liever as soon as the illusion which bewildered
them wears off; they find no true companion-
ship, and remorse will come, though, alas, too
late to retrace their steps.
	On Monday the 31st Horace mentions Pres-
ident Young, H. C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Fathers Cutler and Cahoon and several of the
High Council, some on horseback, others in
wagons, starting up the river to look out the
winter location. Tbey traveled 25 or 30 miles
the first day and encamped on the “Horn.”
The next morning they retraced their steps
toward the old Fort of Council Bluffs. Com-
ing to a creek they had to make a bridge, “af-
ter crossing which, instead of ascending the
ridge on the right hand, they kept on through
the bottom, which was covered with very high
grass, which soon grew so thick that they got
entangled in it and were forced to cut a pas-
sage in some places; it was so high, too, that
they could not see over it, although they stood
up on their horses. After pursuing this route
for some time in momentary danger of getting
“swamped,” they at length emerged from it
and went upon the bluff, which was so steep
that they had to dismount from their horses
and let them ascend by themselves.  
	They saw the “Fort” in the distance, apparent-
ly about six miles off—they soon came to an-
other brook or ravine, where they were again
obliged to build a sort of bridge—throwing in
stuff of different kinds that they might be en-
abled to cross. The sun was about an hour
high when they arrived at the “Fort," which
consisted of the ruins of a few old buildings

[Column 2]
the principal of which was the “Magazine”—
the walls were of stone, about eight feet high,
which had formerly been arched over with
brick, but had mostly fallen in—they went on
about a mile further and encamped for the
night at the head of a ravine. 
The next day they returned home but little
satisfied with the result of their journey.”
	On the same day Horace says, “A commit-
tee of three, viz.: Orson Pratt, J. M. Grant
and Brother Bird were sent to confer with the
Omahaws and the Otoes concerning our remain-
ing on the land here.”


LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON.

	TO THE WOMANS’S JOURNAL, BOSTON

	The right of self-government for one half
the American people is the-most momentous
and important question that this nation was
ever called on to consider;—a question so vital
and far-reaching in its consequences that the
life or death of all political parties, the success
or failure of all other issues, are as nothing
weighed in the balance with it. And for the
reason that not one single question affecting
the interests of humanity can ever be satisfac-
torily settled, until we have the united thought
of enlightened men and women in its read-
justment. We cannot bring order and har-
mony out of our present chaotic conditions un-
til the masculine and feminine elements are in
exact equillibrium. Thus far in the history of
the race, the masculine element has dominated,
giving us governments of force, religions of
terror, and social conditions of slavery. Our
work is to exalt the feminine element, to re-
store a normal womanhood, and by education,
higher development, and moral power, help to
mould the state, the church, and the home, on
sound principles of justice and equality.
	There is great fear expressed lest with en-
larged liberty woman will “unsex herself.”
That is exactly the difficulty under the pres-
ent restrictions. The mass of our women are
nothing but faint echoes of men, accepting un-
questioned their systems of government and
jurisprudence, the absurdities and dogmas of
of their different forms of religion, and all
their various theories of social life, according
to the latitude and longitude in which they
were born. Hence, in trying to build up a
normal type of womanhood, we are compelled
to overcome the prejudices of centuries, the
hostility of man to any invasion of his author-
ity, and, worst of all, the apathy and indiffer-
ence of woman herself. The majority of
women could not be more thoroughly “unsexed”
than they are to-day, moulded by the mascu-
line idea, and guided,by the masculine will.
The world still waits for a grand type of true
womanhood to be born.
	But while working faithfully to this end, we
must avail ourselves of every opportunity for
popular surface work, whenever, however, and
wherever it can be accomplished. For this
reason, political parties, in Presidential cam-
paigns, are of some service to us for purposes
of agitation. At such times there is a gen-
eral revival of the interests of the people in
questions outside the usual routine of their
daily lives, hence it is important for reformers
to wave their banners from the most conspicu-
ous point of view; to issue their protests, ap-
peals, and letters of acceptance, as they get a
circulation and hearing which cannot be se-
cured at any other time. Thus, wholly inde-
pendent of their intrinsic merits, they serve
the purpose of a widespread agitation of their
ideas of government.
	Some of us have been arraigned for advis-
ing the members of the National Association
to “stand by the Republican party.” Knowing
full well that all the parties and nominees alike


have other questions nearer their hearts than
woman suffrage, it matters not to us whether
it is protection, prohibition, finance, or labor,
so long as our question in not primal. Hence
our choice is the Republican party, as it has a
grand record in the past for noble deeds and
words, and in its ranks we find the largest
number of statesmen favorable to our move-
ment.  Then, too, we have a small craft an-
chored in their harbor, "with something to tie
to,” and fair promises of protection.  If we 
cannot trust the republican party, which has
a local habitation and a name, where shall we
look?  We cannot follow the independents, for
they have not told us what they believe, or
whither they are going.  The Prohibitionists
may prove a myth, as they always have done
when the time came for voting.  The constit-
uents of the working-men’s party make up
the rank and file of the large majorities that
have gone dead against woman suffrage in
every State where the proposition has been 
submitted. As to the Democratic party, it
has had no policy or leaders for a quarter of a
century, Now it would be folly for us.  with
our little craft (in the shape of a special com-
mittee, a 16th amendment, and a bundle of
petitions), to go forth on the great ocean of un-
certainty, to trust to Cleveland, Butler or St.
John to throw us a rope in time of danger.  if
any of them found their vessels too heavily
laden for a Presidential campaign, no doubt
woman suffrage would be the first part of the
cargo to be thrown overboard.
	Now we have had a narrow contracted little
state room for many years on the Republican
ship, with such men as Anthony, Sargent, Lap-
ham, Hoar, Blair, and later, Reed, Taylor,
McLoed and Bunne, to give us ever and anon
some crumbs of comfort.  Humiliating as our
position is, it is better than to be thrown over-
board to the fishes.  There is every reason to
suppose the Republicans will cling to us, aud
hold us in reserve, as the next best card to
play.  After having turned the negro into
every possible shape, made all the capital they
can out of him, the women, in the order of
Providence, must come next; and it is not the
interest of the Republicans to preserve our
lives until that hour comes.  If, in this gen-
eral disintegration of parties, a new one shall
arise with a solid woman suffrage plank in its
platform, it will be time enough for us, when
we see its battalions forming, to get ready to
march in its procession.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Moroni, Sept. 28, 1884, Christiana, beloved
wife of Neils Christensen.  Deceased was born July 10,
1833, in Denmark; baptized by Andrew Jensen Sept. 18,
1855; emigrated with her family to Utah in 1857.  She
was the mother of twelve children.
	She leaves a husband, eight children, an aged father
and numerous brothers and sisters, and eleven grand-
children, to mourn her loss.  She was an affectionate
wife, an indulgent mother; was faithful to the princi-
ples of the Gospel; was an efficient member of the Relief 
Society, holding the office of first counselor for sixteen
years.  She was a kind friend to the poor and a constant
visitor to the sick.
	Her remains were conveyed to the meeting house, the
Relief Society following in procession, where the funeral
services were held.  Several of the brethren made ap-
propriate remakrs, aided by the Spirit of God, comfort-
ing the bereaved family.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
Adopted by the Relief Society of Moroni:
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Chris-
tiana Christensen;
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father, by the
hand of death, to take from us our beloved sister, we
bow in humble submission to the divine will of the Al-
mighty God.  We realize in her death we have lost a
friendly adviser and wise counselor.


Resolved, That we treasure up her past efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel,  and that we
emulate her worthy example.  
	Resolved, That a copy be spread upon our minutes, 
and one presented to the bereaved family. 
	JANE BAILEY, President, 
	MARY H. DRAPER, Secretary. 
	SARAH JOLLEY, 
	DEBORAH P. IRONS, 	Committee. 
	SUSAN CHRISTENSEN, 

	LINES BY SISTER JANE BAILEY. 

Not long ago she filled her place, 
	A counselor good and wise, 
But she has run her mortal race, 
	And lives beyond the skies. 

Sleep, O sleep, beloved sister, 
	Until the morning trumpet sounds; 
You'll awaken from your slumbers
	And receive a heavenly crown. 
LINES WRITTEN FOR THE CHILDREN OF THE DE-
	PARTED SISTER CHRISTENSEN OF MORONI, 
	BY ROSE ELLEN WHITE. 

Children, mourn not for your mother, 
	For her home is now with God, 
But strive to follow in her footsteps, 
	And hold fast the "iron rod." 

She has filled her earthly mission
	And is wanted up above
To continue in good labors
	Where there is but peace and love. 

Then bow to God and ask for comfort, 
	And that blessing you will gain; 
For your mother's in His keeping, 
	And is free from earthly pain. 

Children, mourn not for your mother, 
	Even though 'tis hard to part, 
For you'll meet again in heaven
	And joy be great within each heart.


RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.

	To the memory of Maria J., wife of Bishop J. E.
Booth, who depared this life October 7, 1884, in Provo
City:
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit, in His Al-
wise providence, tn call from our midst our beloved sis-
ter,!
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Fourth Ward
Relief Society, recognize in the death of our beloved and
honored President the great loss of an able and efficient
officer, a very devoted Saint and co-laborer in the cause
of truth.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with her bereaved husband and family in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record; also that copies be presented  to 
the bereaved family and printed in the Territorial En-
quirer and WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	M. M. WATSON,
	D. M, MEECHAM,	Committee. 
	A. SMART, 	
Those who have lived and suffered
	Within the Gospel pale
Ne’er feel such hopeless pain for those
	Who drift behind the veil.
We loved Maria for her worth,  
	Her meek and gentle ways;
We loved her for her willingness
	To serve God all her days.
Sweet soul! too pure to longer dwell
	Beneath the chastening rod;	
Although we mourn, the whisper comes,
	“She’s gone to dwell with God.’


[first column]
	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[second column]
For Sale at this Office.
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-	$1.00	"
		Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50		"

		HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfactions.
	MESSES, SMITH, & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
	"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If you r groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
				Z.	C.	M.	I.
			SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	DRY GOODS, NORIONS, GROCERIES,
		HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
			GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
					MENTS,
			CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
		PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
		GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger and more complete
	Stock than any house in the west.
			H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
						in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
		A Full and Complete Stock of
			MILLINERY.
		Spring and Summer Goods,
			AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
			CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

To Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.		No. 12.


ONWARD

Onward! A word that is old in name,
But its import is ever new;
Giving fresh strength to the faltering heart,
Pointing to where life's deep shadows part
And heaven's sunlight is shining through.

What though the deserts around are dark,
While the valleys behind are fair,
And the innocent trust of our childish hours,
The freshness of heart, life's morning flowers,
And the dreams of youth are there.

Have not the garlands that crowned us then
Faded and fallen apart?
And the flowers that were fairest in bygone years,
Have they not gathered their dew of tears
To drop on an aching heart?

But beyond the mist of the coming years
We may catch a glimmer of gold,
And we know as the soul grows pure with prayer,
By the spotless robes that are gleming there,
"Tis a crown that the angels hold.

Then onward forever! Regret is doom
To the soul that lingers and waits, 
Viewing the future with doubt and fear,
Mourning the past till the grave is near,
And closed are the golden gates.

MILLICENT.


PUT ON THY STRENGTH, OH ZION!

"Awake! awake! put on thy strength!"
	Thou Zion of the Holiest One!
Resound through all thy breadth and length
	The grand appeal, the prophet's song.

"Oh, captive daughter, loose thy bands--
	The dust from off thy garments shake,"
Fear not to keep the Lord's commands,
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!

Awake! and supplicate thy King
	To thwart the enemy's desire;
Together let thy watchmen sing,
	And fan to flame faith's smouldering fire.

This is no time to calmly sleep,
	Nor e'en the time to idly rest;
Continual guard the wise will keep
	When Zion's children are oppressed.

Lo! multitudes comprise the throng
	Oppos'd to ev'ry law of right;
Yea, many are our foes, and strong
	The forces that against us fight.

God is our only shield and stay,
	God is our only hope and Friend!
Unless we all His laws obey,
	How dare we on His aid depend?

The proud and haughty--how shall these
	Upon the Lord of Hosts rely?
Oh, how shall those who sit at ease
	The armies of the earth defy?

"God is not mocked," nor will He fight
	For those who but of grandeur dream;
For those who His commandments slight,
	Although, indeed, as Saints they seem.

Come, let us all unite as one,
	And all our evil ways forsake;
Oh, Zion, gird truths's armor on,
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!

Shall Israel stoop, in dire alarm,
	To worship Baal with bended knee?
The Lord will bare His mighty arm,
	When eye to eye His people see.

Though Zion's sons for nought are sold,
	Held in derision, near and far,
Sing to the Lord, ye captives bold,
	He'll set your prison doors ajar.


All Zion's shackles God will break
	Within His own appointed time;
Yea! though the heavens and earth should shake, 
	Moved by Omnipotence sublime.

But mightiest powers will yet combine
	Against thee, and a conflict make;
Zion, arise! thy light must shine;
	Put on thy strength. Awake! Awake!
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 12, 1884.


[Column 1]

				MARGARET FULLER. 
				BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I have just laid down the life of Margaret
Fuller.  No one who has a sympathetic soul
can rise from that life without realizing that
they are Fuller in the head, [asterisks]
and most assuredly Fuller in the whole soul!
It has absorbed me so much that it took time
to grade me down to every day life and com-
mon feeling. 
	Among her devoted friends three grand
men, James Freeman Clarke, Ralph Waldo
Emerson and William Henry Channing, have
appeared as her biographers.  These names
alone assure us she was a woman of no mean
order, and every reader of her life will certain-
ly desire to place a chaplet on her brow, or a
bouquet at her feet.  Her life, with all its glory,
throws a sadness over my spirit.  It seemed
ever one of hard struggle, yet no doubt such
a mind as hers---so rich, so full of mighty in-
telligence, was capable of making in every
portion of that life, its own Elysium; still a
film of melancholy stole over me as I read her
[--]thly pilgrimage, with her most heart rend-
ing and early death.  That alone seemed to
engulf every pleasing, delightful, proud
thought I had entertained of a woman all
must love, and more than that---admire with
devotion!  I could not feel satisfied with her
marriage, that is, the man she married, yet [--]
gained one great redeeming point in my [-]sti-
mation, that he was capable of loving and ap-
pr[-]ciating such a woman, who paid him the
great honor of bestowing upon him her heart
and hand!  It speaks well in favor of all who,
possessing great blessings and honors, have the
faculty to weigh and measure and appreciate
them.  Still I felt this marriage sealed her
destiny; here th[-] electric chain was dropped,
and her "occupation gone!" but out of the
fearful cloud that over-hung her death this
idea brought out a "silver lining."  The ways
of the Great Director of the universe are past
finding out even to the most humble and pre-
sistent inquirer; yet in some of those mysteri-
ous dispensations of Providence, that prostrate
the soul in dust and ashes, and for a time close
the doors of light and inspiration, and cause it
to sit in darkness and the shadow of death,
who has not felt that there was still a drop of
honey in the draft of gall? The soul that
leans on its God and Savior realizes this
always.
  Surely the mother of Margaret Fuller felt
this at the recital of the awful calamity that
had befallen her gifted child---aye! and that
child's child.  It seems too awful, when we at-
tempt to realize it, and make the case our own;
yet my consolation came when I pictured that
noble, that hightly and intensely educated soul
passing "beyond the gates"into that Empyreum,
the grandeur of which "eye hath not seen, ear

[Column 2]

hath not heard, nor hath it entered into the
heart of humanity to conceive," and finding by
her side the little image on which she had be-
stowed her soul's love, and probably him, also,
whom she had honored and elevated by her
alliance with him in her sublunary existence.
  Great and noble woman!  Here was they
brief nursery, the primary of thy earthly so-
journ, in which thou didst help to awaken the
world to the restoration of woman to the pedes-
tal from which she had fallen and didst
stretch out a hand to raise the mighty lever
that will yet propel women from her intertia,
her apathy, her subordination and frivolity,
her abjectness and her ignorance (all of which
will have fulfilled their mission of the curse)
and restored her to her pristine position. when
she walked forth into the garden of Eden,
		"Grace in all her steps,
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, wearing
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!"
	For this grand finale, Margaret Fuller
stretched out her hand, laid out her heart and
brain---seeing in the vision of her mind, woman
standing once again on the very pinnacle on
which her Maker placed her on the morning of
His great creation, bearing at this remote per-
iod the high and mighty title of motherhood
of the whole human race---the "bearer of th[-]
souls of men," and other titles equally glori-
ous yet to be revealed.
			THE HEART'S EFFUSIONS.
	Engulfed beneath the wave---
		The angels surely came
	And caught thee from its [---]
		In clouds of lam[---] flame.

	Yes, yes, I s[---] to know
		Tho[-] ne'er we[-]t in the sea[-]
	Thou wert prepared to  go
		Where the just and blessed be.

	Thou bright, evangel soul;
		Thy home is with the blest;
	Thy work, while ages roll,
		Shall bring thee sweetest rest.

	And we, thy sisters here,
		Will gather thy planted seed,
	And gladly help to rear
		For comers' future green.


WILL THE PURITAN RACE PERISH?

	Some writer has said, "The Puritan race is
dying of pride."  The writer, within a year,
heard a noted speaker exclaim before a large
concourse of people, "The Puritan race is
doomed."  The same gloomy sentiment may
get utterance in various directions.
	I do not suppose that the idea of discrimina-
tion between Puritan and Pilgrim is often
thought of, but that the reference is in general
to those who came over in the Mayflower, to
those of like type arriving later, or landing
elsewhere, to that people and their descendents
whom we commonly recognize as the New
England race.  Should a long line of ancestry
reach back to Holland, France, Germany, or 
Russia, it would matter not, the New England
traits existing, then the individuals are freely
included in our serious inquiry.
	Here are people, not as graceful as the an-
cient Persians and Greeks, not as ponderous


as the old Romans, not as versatile as the
French, not as profound as the Germans, not
as fascinating as the Italians or Spaniards, but
in their sum total, as valuable, as much to be
respected as any that existed. Their preserva-
tion is to be coveted, their continuance be-
comes a matter of national concern, and even
of world-wide consideration.
	Here is a blood largely of English and
Scotch origin, receiving a peculiar, a New
England, a new world tinge. A specimen of
this stock is observing and analytical to the
keenest shrewdness; self-denying, loyal to
principle, inclined to order and worship; lov-
ing regulated liberty, a natural leader and em-
ployer of his fellows. There is many a happy
village, largely Irish, with two or three Yan-
kees at the head of its business. These lead-
ing men appreciate the services, the wit, the
religious and other rights of all the men in
their employ, it may be, to a most admirable
extent. In multitudes of cases the employees
would not like to be in any body else's service.
Often these men run factory, shop, or store at
a loss, for the time being at least, rather than
distress the help by shutting down the gates.
The man may be a farmer undertaking large
improvements which will not pay, as his wife
well knows; but he, in his heart, loves to im-
prove, to renovate, to direct, and above all, to
pay out money, honestly earned, where the re-
cipient will be grateful, or will be helped to
live and support those dependent upon the earn-
ings of his naked hands.
	Some may have an antipathy against this
species of men, exult in the least prospect of
their extinction; yet I freely inquire, how can
we spare them socially? What community
was better to live in than a typical New Eng-
land neighborhood? Answer, ye who have
had a wide experience, who were brought up
in such society, and have since been tossed here
and there upon the billows of a wandering life.
All that Henry Ward Beecher has asserted, or
his sister Stowe has illustrated, and so many,
many others have delineated in praise of the
kind of folks to which the Beechers, Edwardses
Dickensons, Winslows, Robinsons, Larneds,
Bates, Lincolns, Quincys, Adamses, Garfields,
and an innumberable host of others belong, has
had its foundation in everlasting verity.
	Well, is there danger that this kind of peo-
ple, this class of families, may disappear? Yes,
and the danger is personal, fundamental.
Their influence may be getting muffled, may
be waning; still there is much more than that
to fear. In some instances the old sharpness
is blunted, the quiet confidence is passing into
uneasiness, the perseverance becoming less
marked, the church tendency lessening along
with the partial loss of simplicity, and some
parting, alas! with purity. Nor is so much all.
There are fearful clouds rising upon different
parts of the horizon and upon one, large and
dark, we seem to read in raised black letters
the terrible word, Extinction.
	The time has come to sound an alarm, to run
with the truthful message, to put away every
embarrassment and "cry aloud." Just where
the writer happens now to be, in a country
town, in Worcester Co., Mass., there is much
to startle one. In Worcester itself, "the heart
of the commonwealth,' in all the New England
cities, in sections of the Middle States, and in
the far West, there are primary circumstances
which startle all who are very thoughtful. We
find families where children might have had a
heaven to grow up in, childless! Like house-
holds with only one or two children. These
may not be rugged. In not unfrequent in-
stances, where there have been many children,
all have gone to early graves! Districts that
used to embrace fifty or sixty pupils now as-
semble eight or ten. If a district now keeps
up to its older number of pupils it is because
foreign families have settled in the neighbor-
hood. Consolidation of districts is going on for
lack of children.
	There are changes which indeed are not im-
provements. The strain on life grows severe,
the fashion stylish, the habits expensive, the
struggle to keep up or surpass intense, piti-
less.
	Woman, as we see her by the eye of history
stepping upon the rock of Plymouth, woman
as represented by our grandmothers, woman as
a helpmeet, woman ever the central figure in
social life, the marked, the Puritan woman is
failing the Puritan man. Who then will help
him?
	I know of fathers who almost shudder at the
mention of their daughters' names. They
know, as no other man can, the riches of good-
ness, the sparkle of love and  genius in the
bosom of these girls; but how shall the father
be able to dress, school, and rear them as other
folks do, and they retain their health, freshness,
animation, and innocency? If he would limit
them to his income, instruct them in hygiene,
render them philosophical generally, who will
aid him? How many will thwart him and
render those dear daughters discontented,
treacherous to his wishes and wisdom. His
own friends may plot against him. Fortunate
is he if he have a son who is patient, who hon-
ors his father, who eschews popular vices and
all vice, who respects the family name, who
reveres the whole vast circuit of God's laws,
who stands like a mountain of firmness by
what is prudent and solid, by eternal common
sense and undying righteousness. There are
Puritans that have such sons. Is the number
comparatively large? Is the percentage on the
increase?
	Go, go in disguise, if you please, into the by-
ways of cities, the country stores, the post-
offices; note what you see and hear. Confine
yourself now to the land of the Pilgrims.
You cannot forget that these young men are
soon to stand in the place of the older, and
that the mortality, too, of elder and prominent
men at present is very great. Repair to the
church on Sunday, after all the swearing,
boasting, mocking, tobacco-mulching, and so
on, you have been obliged to witness the week
before, and find many of these fellows there, if
you can. Say over to yourself, "Puritan,"
"New England." Repeat the names of the
New England States; think of what were their
characteristics. Let their history, their lead,
their eminence pass before you. Interrogate
your very soul; question the lessons and warn-
ings of the world's history; inquire relentlessly,
whether without reformation the youth of
these States are going to bear up and lift still
higher, as they ought, the prestige of these
States.
	The writer is not trying to make out a case.
He is not saying or intimating that there is no
good to be seen. He does not aver that there
is no flickering hope in his sobered heart, that
there will be repentance and rescue; that a
remnant, at the worst, will be saved. Yet he
is thoughtful, awakened, whispering to himself,
"We must be resigned if this choice blood be-
comes weakened, corrupted, and is even final-
ly lost out of all human sight in the great,
surging, endless river of events."
	I have in my list of acquaintance a few
young men in whom I delight. Some of them
are married. Half of these I deeply pity.
They have very fashionable or invalid wives.
They may be both. A fashionable invalid
woman of the northeastern States is the most
expensive creature, if we except Barnum's
white elephant, "under the whole heaven."
The number of maladies, the number of reme-
dies, the mysterious ailments, the retinue of
doctors, the multiplied quotations from them,
the noted resorts to be visited, the tremulous
conditions to be observed, the breathless exi-
gencies extant and forecast, excite, confuse,
and alarm me. My friend may have a gener-
ous income. Really I see he nceds it all. In
my simplicity or stupidity I may recommend
to a husband or wife, or to a brother or sister
of the same, some practical health publication
or clear-headed hygienic physician, or a home-
like institution, where good treatment and
counsel may be obtained, but I have rarely
found welcome for my advice. When out of
my own rather slender purse I have ordered
some vital literature sent to their address, it
has, perhaps, been accepted as a faint or dis-
tant curiosity, or a kind of flat proof that some-
body has a funny hobby.
	We may well glory in our common schools.
That is a Puritan glory. But I do not see why
school committees, including physicians, should
be so confident the curriculum is perfect, and
that no young person is ever injured by study
or confinement. The savants declare that even
the normal schools are never too severe for the
physical integrity of girls. The evils alleged
all proceed from "late dancing and late sup-
pers." These are guilty things indeed. But
is it customary for schools, in a motherly way,
to spare at all the young ladies suffering from
these dissipations? Do they spare them for
anything? Do they not make telling, ceaseless,
ingenious appeals to the large cautiousness and
approbativeness of the girl pupils? Which is
usually uppermost, the welfare of human be-
ings or the feats of disciplinarians, the pride
of the school board, and the astonishing feats of
professed educators?
	Ride through the country towns of New
England, and on roads away from depots and
factories, you will find deserted houses, old
cellars, dying orchards, and the like, showing
that the rural population is declining. Many
a field once cultivated, is now growing to wood.
Many a freehold has passed from a Yankee to
an Irish name. Many, of Puritan descent,
have rented their farms and moved into some
fashionable centre. Poor health, on both sides
of the house, is the common reason given. It
may sometimes be added, my son does not like
farming, or, my daughter works in the shop,
and if we moved she could board at home. It
would not be usually expected that the daughter
would like housework, even at home.
	Now, our fathers sometimes plowed and har-
rowed rocky hills, which, now we know of so
much better land, should always be left simply
to growth of wood. It still remains that there
is much land in the northeastern States, poor-
ly tilled; or not tilled at all, that could be
worked with profit. There are multitudes of
farms that could be bought for two thousand
dollars--what the buildings cost, say--which
would nicely support an average family of fru-
gal habits. In some sections a little more than
half that sum would buy a farm, on which one
could easily keep a horse, ten head of cattle,
and so on. With good markets near by, and
postal arrangements whereby a daily paper
could be read on the day it was published, why
are not these homesteads rapidly taken up?
Because there is so little science and so much
extravagance. Because of restlessness and
vanity. Because of a later-born, hot, unrea-
soning tendency to rush to over-crowded cities
and other crowded centres. Because of a lack
of the love of Nature. Because of a fatal
disregard of the best sources of health, and an
undervaluing of every sort of purity and
natural excellency.
	"Greece was never more adorned with arts,
fuller of schools, more resonant of music, rich-
er in genius, more showy in religious sacrifices,
than when she was struck with hopeless death!
It was the decay of virtue, the triumph of
selfish over public tastes, the absence of self-
denying men, the enervation of luxury, the
pride of vain philosophy, the hypocrisy of re-
ligion that killed her!"--Phrenological Jour-
nal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO THE CHILDREN OF TEMPE.

I was asked by your president something to add
To your entertainment, to make your hearts glad,
To instruct, edify, please and amuse,
So I called for the aid of my pen and my muse.

But just what to talk of is hard to decide,
The world is so broad, so deep and so wide.
With so many subjects for thought and for speech,
And all so infinitely out of my reach;

For we don’t comprehend the smallest thing,
The tiniest shrub, the bird on the wing.
So beyond the wisdom of you or I—
Wo see them live, and we see them die!

But we cannot call from the earth’s dark breast
The lovely flowers our earth has blest,
Nor give to the birds the breath and song
That cheers our hearts the whole day long.

We walk abroad, In the sun’s bright ray.
That cheers and brightens our earthly way,
And we see it silently sink from sight.
Leaving a glow of golden light.

And then we watch for the twinkling star.
And the moon peeping up o’er the hills afar;
We gaze, and admire, and love them all,
But the mantle of mystery still will fall.

O’er our dim mortal eyes, that we may not know
Just how God governs His works below;
But we know ’tis with wisdom and mighty skill,
That His hand guides all to His own great will.

All move in harmony grand and true—
Just study the page nature holds to view;
There is no jarring or discord there,
Only man has marred the picture fair.

It is sad to think how he turned away
From God, and truth, and the light of day,
To wander in darkness, and sin, and strife,
Away, far away, from the paths of life.

But children dear, there is joy for you,
If you will be noble, good and true.
For a messenger came from the throne above,
Bringing glad tidings of mercy and love.

He brought the gospel and left the key
That opens the way for you and me;
Even the way that our Savior trod,
Holding fast to the iron rod,

That will lead you safe by the mansion high,
Whoso inmates scoff as you pass them by;
That will keep you still, though the wild seas roar,
And wreck and ruin lie on the shore.

That will whisper peace to the troubled soul, 
And guide life’s bark o’er every shoal,
Till it teach the haven of peace and rest
In the golden city, redeemed and blest.	S. E. R.
	October 30, 1884.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On the 3rd the committee sent to confer with
the above named tribes brought in their report
of the same. “They had seen the chiefs of
the Omahas, Big Elk and Standing Elk,
his son, who signed the article which they had
drawn up requesting their consent to remain
one or two or more years.  Both tribes are very
anxious to have all the improvements we shall
leave behind.  The Otoes were anxious that we
should not close with the offer of the Omahas
and go up the river, because there they would
have no clue to the improvements we shall
make, whereas if we stay where we are they
consider themselves entitled to every thing we
shall leave behind.  A committee was appoint-
ed by the council to look out a good place for
cattle and to see about the removal of the fer-
ry up the river near here.”
	On the 5th my father,accompanied by Bros.
O. Pratt, W. Woodruff, J. M. Grant, Horace
Eldredge and several others, set out in pursuit
of a new ferrying place.  A committee met
them from the other side of the river by agree
ment. “They took a leather boat,” says Hor-
ace, “belonging to Brother Horace Eldredge,
which they had brought with them, and two of
them, Bros. Kimball and O. Pratt, went over
to see the committee.  On getting over they
found five of the brethren, Isaac Morley,
George W. Harris, Phinehas Richards, Wm.
Snow and Bro. Miller, waiting for them—they
all got into the boat with them and went back,
making seven in all, there being a heavy wind
up stream; the waves were very high, they were
in momentary danger of upsetting, as Brother
Kimball said who steered the boat, but they
landed safely without any accident at the place
from whence they started.”
	Here, at the mouth of the creek, they built
a brush bridge—two of them, Brother Kimball
and Wm. Snow, rode up the river about two
miles to see if they could find any better place
for the ferry than here—they returned, not
having found any, consequently it was agreed
to establish it here.  One or two of the breth-
ren then took the others back over the river in
the leather boat, and they then returned.  He
says, “The brethren up to this date have cut
from 1500 to 2000 tons of hay, the most of
which is already stacked.” He also mentions
the arrival of Uncle Joseph Young and family
that evening.  There were then rising of 800
wagons in the three camps, which were situated
in the form of a triangle.
	On the morning of the 8th Bishop Whitney
and Bros. Woolley and Van Cott started for St.
Louis to purchase goods, also Wm. Kimball,
Colonel Kane,Darnel Davis and Orson K.Whit-
ney started for Nauvoo.
	On the 11th Wm. returned with O. P. Rock-
well, the latter having started for Mt. Pisgah.
“They came to bring back some bed clothes,
etc., belonging to Bro. Jedediah M. Grant, that
were taken away by Col. Kane.  They had
gone about fifteen miles on their route from
the village when he (the Colonel) told them he
did not feel able to go through by land, conse-
quently they came back and put him on board
the steamer “General Brooks,” letting Wm.
take his horse, and agreed to meet him at Nau-
voo, in which if he failed he was to keep the
horse.”
	Saturday, 12th, a council was held, at which
the following resolutions were made:
	1st—That all dogs should be tied up at sun-
set and not released till the next morning at
sunrise.
	2nd—That no firing of guns should be per-
mitted within hearing of the camp either by
night or day,and that such things should cease
wholly at sunset.
	3rd—That no timber should be cut down for
fuel which would answer the purpose for build-
ing, and that when anyone wanted wood they
were to apply to Stephen Winchester and
Father Eldredge, who would instruct them
when and where to fell trees.  It was particu-
larly enjoined on the brethren to spare the
walnut trees, which had been already cut
down in great numbers to procure walnuts.


UTAH:
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
	A hasty announcement drew a small audi-
ence together at the theatre on Monday night
when Robert W. Sloan gave his lecture on
Utah, Past, Present and Future.  On the
platform were seated Prest. W. Woodruff and
Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Charles W.
Penrose. President Cannon introduced the
speaker with a few appropriate remarks, and
the young man plunged into his subject with
earnestness and enthusiasm.
	The subject is one, notwithstanding the as-
sertion of the author to the contrary, of
profound interest, to the young people, especial-


ly, of our Territory, and ever must be.  The
lecture begins with a brief, yet fairly compre-
hensive review of the physical appearance of
our Territory, showing its variety of climate,
water sources and other matters of interest as-
sociated with the geography of Utah.  This
done, a review of the Utah past is begun, par-
ticular stress being laid upon the cricket war,
grasshopper devastations, the result of the ap-
proach of Johnston's army, and the difficulties
encountered in battling Indians.
    The present of Utah deals with her agricul-
tural capacity, the varied character and abun-
dance of her mineral resources, her manufac-
tures, and her credit as an outgrowth of the
conditions peculiar to her people--conditions 
likely to win for the Territory permanent pros-
perity and future greatness.
    The lecture concludes with a view of the
future that awaits the Territory if her young
people only take advantage of the rare oppor-
tunities that await them in a land so richly
blessed as this, if they will only prove worthy
the blessings left them by the pioneers, and
which God has placed within their reach. It
is an exhortation to the young to prove them-
selves worthy their grand parentage and make
the country they inhabit great as they become
great themselves.
    The lecture was loudly and feelingly ap-
plauded whenever any touching or emotional
sentiment was portrayed in words.  He seemed
to feel all and more than he said, and his man-
ner indicated his intense interest in the theme
he had so graphically worked up, and upon
which he had bestowed much precious time and
thought. We regret that the lecture could
not be produced in the different wards of the
city, for it is one calculated to inspire an am-
bition in the youth of Zion to press on to nobler
aims and higher resolves, and to attain to that
excellence which is the result of purity of life
and nobility of purpose.


NOTES AND NEWS.

    On his eighty-fourth birthday, Mr. Geo.
Bancroft received congratulations from all
parts of the world, cablegrams coming from
Germany, England, and France.

    Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Oct. 14, as follows:
    Lelia C. Harrison, New Haven, Conn.,
Hitching Device.
    Margaret E. Knight, Ashland, Mass., Gar-
ment Clasp.

    The corporation of the New England Hos-
pital for Women and Children held its annual
meeting on Tuesday.  From the dispensary re-
port it appears that the number of patients
during the year was 10,493; new patients, 4,-
160; treated at home, 834.  Mrs. Ednah D.
Cheeny read the annual report.  Dr. Emma
Culbertson is added to the staff of dispensary
physicians.  There is only a small debt re
maining.

    The student whom the John Hopkins univer-
sity refused because she was a woman, Martha
Cary Thomas, of Baltimore, has just received
the degree of Ph. D. summa cum laude,the fourth
and highest degree which the University of Zu-
rich can bestow.  Think of America sending
her Republican daughters to the heart of Eu-
rope to receive their degrees of lofty scholar-
ship!  Think of Europe emerging from her
mediaevalism before America!  Think of the
universities of Switzerland, of Italy, of Austria,
of Sweden, of France, shaming Columbia and
Harvard!


﻿Aloft on the throne of God, and not below,
in the footprints of a trampling multitude, are
the sacred rules of right, which no majorities
can displace or overturn.—Charles Sumner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   .   .   Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each s nare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in  brick building north or Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
	EMILY FAITHFUL’S BOOK.
	“And that mine adversary had written a
book,” exclaimed Job in his affliction, but we
have no reason to apply this to ourselves in the
present day, for it sesms to be a very common
occurrence for the enemies of truth to write a
book. Each author seems to think that some-
thing will be done by Congress if they set forth
in forcible language and thrilling incident “the
horrors of Mormonism.”
	When it was understood here that Miss
Faithful would write a book, it was thought
by many who had mether and heard her speak,
and by those who were somewhat acquainted
with her work in the cause of reform, that she
would at least deal honestly and fairly with
Utah.  She came here and accepted the courie 
sles and attentions of the “Mormon” people; she
gave her “lecture on Modern Shams” in the Salt
Lake Theatre to an almost entire "Mormon” au-
dience.  She strongly denounced the hypocri-
sies, extravagances, subterfuges and frauds prac-
ticed in the great world,—therefore, how could
one suppose she would pander to the present
vitiated taste of modern society for sensational
matter, or join in the hue and cry against those
of whom sha knew so little, before she had thor-
oughly investigated the subject.
	Miss Faithful was here a few days, she was
suffering from asthma, so that she was unable
to see much that would have been interesting
to a casual traveler; yet she writes of Salt Lake
City and the citizens as though she had been a
dweller in their midst, and knew whereof she
wrote.
	Miss Faithful’s book is entitled “Three Visits
To America,” and contains four hundred pages
of reading matter, and judging of her by her
literary ability and prestige one would not ex-
pect she could so far forget her womanly honor,
as to publish falsehoods; and knowing that the
two chapters she has devoted to Utah contain
so much that is untrue,how can one who knows,
that, accept other matter as positive in facts
and descriptions.
	 The XI and XII chapters of the book are devo-
ted to “Mormon”themes; opening with Brigham
Young’s entrance to the valley, and Miss F.
writes: “No wonder that the keen eye of the
'Prophet’ at once discerned his opportunities and
that he resolved to build up his Zion in this fer-
tile spot.” If Miss Faithful had traveled across
the barren plains with tired and worn-out ox-
teams and arrived here weary and foot-sore only
to find a desert of sage brush and alkali—with
no one to greet her save the half-naked savages,
and the howling of ravenous wolves, she would
be able to make a more truthfal statement.  We
speak from knowledge and we know whereof wa
assert; desolate and uninteresting were these
now delightful vales at the advent of the Saints.
But let that misrepresentation pass, it scarce de-

[Column 2]
serves mention, it has been so oft repeated by
the villifiers of that inspired man, Brigham
Young.
	Miss Faithful speaks of having been invited
to the party given in honor of the anniversary
of Sister Eliza Snow’s eightieth birthday, and
goes on to relate what transpired there as though
she had really been present.  The fact is she
was not even invited at all, the invitations be-
ing strictly confined to Latter-day Saints.  She
knows what the local papers published concern-
ing the happy event, and no more. However,
she was, as she says, invited to a luncheon party
at the Gardo House, the residence of President
John Taylor, but the conversation she relates as
having taken place there, has been conjured up
by her own vivid imagination.  Sister Eliza,
she says, made an effort for her conversion
which is utterly erroneous; but that is a mere
trifle and not worthy a moment’s consideration,
but she goes on to say, “Opposite me sat
Joseph F. Smith, nephew of the “Mormon”
founder, and next to him a lady from Stockport
sealed to President Taylor for the life that now
is and that which is to come.  Both of them al-
luded openly to their relationship, and regretted
I did not see the value of forming associations
which would last throughout eternity.”
	To those who know President Taylor this is
the veriest nonsense, and would require no con-
tradiction.  But in defense of truth and to show
how utterly false her statements are, we em-
phatically declare the whole thing a myth con-
ceived in her own brain, for what effect or pur-
pose is best known to herself, no such conversa-
tion was heard by any one.  There were several
gentlemen and ladies present, who were aston-
ished and amazed when they saw her book’ that
she could make so unfounded an assertion and
publish it as truth, aud while openly depre-
cating shams and frauds of all kinds, should her-
self be guilty of palming off upon a sensational
public such a consummate sham and maliciuos
falsehood. What she expects by wilfully tra-
ducing and falsifying those who never did her
any harm, but sought to show her kindnes and
courtesy, is difficult to imagine, and when one
considers the pretended claims she makes to a
reformer and an agitator of the rights of all man-
kind, and recalls the statements made in her 
lecture, one is sorely puzzled to understand her
motives, for she says at the close of her book:
“She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
She of the open heart and opon door,
With room about her knees for all mankind.”
What construction can one put upon Miss Faith-
ful’s statements except that she has joined
hands with the civilizers and regenerators of
Utah, those who denounce virtue in Mormons
and applaud vice in those who seek its over-
throw?
	Miss Faithful speaks of the petition signed by
nearly 500 women and sent to Congress—which
denounced Brigham Young in what she terms,
“these remarkable words:”
	“Never in this world will the history of these
dark deeds be written, for the victim and wit-
ness of many a tragedy are hidden together in
the grave”—and again she says—“The history
of his reign—for it is nothing else—is written in
characters of blood.” She has also stated that
numbers of those who signed the document had
a “personal and bitter experience of the practical
workings of polygamy.” These apostate ladies
know this thing to be utterly false and infa-
mously cruel, thus to desecrate the memory of
the dead, when they put their names to that pe-
tition, if they were aware of its contents, and it
is to their condemnation and they must answer
the consequences hereafter.  Women who were
intimately acquainted with Brigham Young (so
we have been informed) signed that petition,

[Column 3]
and they knew it to be untrue in their hearts
they had been partakers of his liberality, had
been numbered among his friends, had mingled
in his society at the very time when they de-
clare his hands imbued with blood.  How dare
they allow their lips to utter or sanction these
vile and infamous stories?  Are there not thou-
sands to testify against them?  Their treachery
and cruelty is equal to that of traitors, lost to all
sense of honor.  
	Alas, should they provoke the bloody conflict
they seem anxious to bring about, and bring
down the indignation of the Congress they so I
imploringly besech, would they be guiltless of
innocent blood?  Are they not satisfied when
they see innocent men and womancast into pris- 
on for the practice of the religion which they so
devoutly believe?  It seems incredible that wom-
an possossed of the motherly instinct inherent
in her mother nature, could ba incited to take
part in such a diabolical scheme.  That Miss
Faithful, whose name has been heralded the
world over as a reformer, should take up the
cudgel against an inoffensive, industrious, hard-
working but persecqted people, after a few days'
visit, and join hands with those who are
combined to destroy the peace, happiness and
prosperity of Utah and her people, is indeed
strange, the political clique, the self-styled liber-
al party, and that she,an Englishwoman, should
appeal to the Congress of the United States.
	To refer to all the malignant falsehoods about 
“Mormons” this book coutains would take too
much space, but as we were requested by the
publishers in' New York to criticize and send
marked copy of the paper, we have touched up-
on a few of the misrepresentations in the two
chapters named, and believing there are honest
people who may read the book and be deceived
by it, it becomes an imperative duty, in the in-
terest of truth and justice, to contradict some
of the false, wicked and slanderous assertions 
made therein.


RUDGER CLAWSON'S SPEECH. 

	The court was duly opened at 10 o'clock. 
	Mr. Dickson (addressing the court) said:  This
was the hour appointed, if your honor please
for judgment in the case of the United States, 
versus Clawson. 
	Mr. Harkness—We know of no reason why
your honor should not proceed to pass judg-
ment. 
	Mr. Bennett—I wish to state to your honor
that in the matter of moving for a new trial we
have, after mature consideration and delibera-
tion, decided not to make such a motion, but to
rely upon our bill of exceptions.  
	The Judge altered his minutes accordingly.  
	Judge Zane then said—Mr. Clawson:  Will you
stand up, if you please?
	Mr. Clawson thereupon stood up and stepped
to the clerk's desk.  
	Judge Zane then said—You were indicted in
this court upon an indictment charging that you
have been guilty of polygamy on the days
named in the indictment by marrying Lydia
Spencer while your former wife, Florence Ann
Clawson, was still living.  In the second count
of that indictment you were charged with un-
lawfully cohabiting with two, Florence Ann
Clawson and Lydia Spencer.  To that indict-
ment you entered a plea of not guilty, and the
jury was sworn to try the issue, and after hear-
ing the evidence, and argument of counsel, 
found you guilty on both counts of the indict-
ment.  Have you any legal cause to show why
judgement should not be pronounced upon you?
	Mr. Clawson.—Your honor, since the jury that
recently sat on my case have seen proper to find 
a verdict of guilty, I have only this to say why


judgment should not be pronounced. I very
much regret that the laws of my country should
come in contact with the laws of God; but when
ever they do I shall invariably choose the latter.
If I did not so express myself I should feel un
worthy of the cause I represent. The Constitu-
tion of the United States expressly states that
Congress ahall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof. It cannot be denied, I think,
that maraiage,when attended and sanctioned by
religious rites and ceremonies is an establish-
ment of religion. The law of 1862 and the Ed-
munds law were expressly designed to operate
against marriage as practiced and believed in by
the Latter-day Saints. They are therefore un-
constitutional, and of course cannot command
the respect that a constitutional law would.
That is all I have to say, your honor.
	Judge Zane, it is said by those present, seemed
much surprised at Mr. Clawson’s speech and
it was some little time before he spoke; after
making quite a lengthy speech upon the evils of
polygamy and strongly asserting that the law
against it must be executed, Judge Zane pro-
nounced the following sentence upon Eider
Clawson.
	“I shall,therefore,fix your punishment, on the
first count for polygamy, by a fine of $500, and
imprisonment for the term of three years and six
months, and on the second count, for unlawful
cohabitation, I will fix your fine at $300, and
your imprisonment at six months, the imprison-
ment in the last count of the indictment to be-
gin at the termination of the imprisonment on
the first count. The judgment will be entered
by the clerk accordingly.”
	The judge refased to admit Rudger Clawson
to bail,although he has since admitted others to
bail accused of a most heinous crime. Such is
the consistency of those who execute the laws
against the Mormons. Elder Clawson, inno-
cent of sin, was committed to prison the same
evening and put with criminals guilty of the
blackest crimes. But God judgeth all and He
will take care of His servants who are willing
to keep his laws and abide by His command-
ments.
	On Friday, Nov. 14, Bro, Clawson came to the
city to attend the Supreme Court, having been
brought there on a writ of habeas corpus ob-
tained for that purpose. The case was argued
during the day, but not finished. Mr. Kirk.
patrick, it is said, made one of the most mas- 
terly and learned speeches that has ever been
made in the Third District Court Boom. Bishop
Clawson requested that his son be permitted to
remain at home over night, stating that a dep-
uty could accompany him and remain with him
over night, but the request, simple as it was,
was not complied with, and he was obliged to go
back for the night. This morning he was
brought up again, but is not likely to ba admit-
ted to bail, as the oflicers seem inexorable when
any favors are asked in this class of cases.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE MASS MEETING IN THE
	THEATRE.

	A vast assembly filled the Salt Lake Theatre
Monday evening, Nov. 3rd, at the grand mass
meeting of the People's Party held in the inter-
est of the election. At the opening hour the as-
sembly was called to order by Hon. Angus M.
Cannon, who nominated Mayor James Sharp as
chairman. Mr. Sharp was unanimously elected.
Hon. A. M. Cannon was chosen vice-chairman
and H. M. Wells secretary. The chairman in-
troduced the first speaker of the evening,
	HON JOHN T. CAINE,
"Utah's present delegate, to Congress, and the
People's nominee for re-election to that office.

[Column 2]
He came forward amid applause, and proceeded
to deliver an elaborate, exhaustive and eloquent
address, setting forth the views and principles of
the People's Party, as opposed to those of the so-,
called “Liberal” organization.
	“Local self-government was the main pillar of
the platform upon which he,as the People's can-
didate, stood, and a Legislative Commission with
the utter abolishment of that sacred right, was
the only plank in the “Liberal” platform. He
proposed to analyze this infamous proposition,
and expose its unconstitutionality, its utter
foreignessto American institutions and the spir-
it of Anglo Saxon ideas. He traced the record
of American history in vain for a precedent to
justify the abolition of local self-government, a
right guaranteed by the Constitution and the
genius of our institutions, and after referring to
events in English history, without finding,how-
ever a parallel of the kind, turned to the dark
ages of tryanny and despotism in search of it;
ages of crime, ignorance and oppression, of
which civilization to-day was everywhere
ashamed. He asked, If Utah could be thus
stricken down, what safety would there be for
other Territories? The Edmunds law was re-
ferred to and its fallure attributed to its proper
source, viz: the unconstitutionality of the mea-
sure itself and its partial administration,whereby
12,000 polygamists had been disfranchised at a
blow, while sexual sinners outside the Mormon
community were left untouched. Now, more
oppressive legislation was called for, which
showed that polygamy was not the real object of
assaults of the Liberals and their sympathizers
but the punishment of the Mormons for a mere
belief.”
	He closed amid loud applause, by which also
the delivery of his speech was attended at fre-
quent intervals.
	Speeches were afterwards made by Hon. S. R.
Thurman and Hon. W. N. Dusenberry of
Provo, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Hon. F. S. Richards,
M. Isabella Horne and Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon.
The speeches were all good and to the point,and
we are very sorry we cannot publish them in
full. Sister Horne brought down the house
when shs said “how would the judges and law-
yers who are so eager to question the sisters like
it if their wives and daughters were brought in-
to court to testify against them, though she be-
lieved they could tell plenty if they would.”
Prest. Cannon, among many other good things,
said, “Before Constitutions were written there
were laws and principles written on the hearts
of human beings. Magna Charts and the Con-
stitution of the United States are only the ex-
pression of principles as old as eternity. We
know what the principle of liberty are, we
know when we are oppressed, if we had never
heard of the Magna Charta or the American
Constitution.” Bro. Cannon's speech was full of
grand and lofty sentiments, one to arouse the
spirit of patriotism in the hearts of all who love
liberty and hate oppression.
	At the close of the meeting the following res-
olution was adopted
	Resolved, That the representatives of the
People’s Party in mass meeting assembled re-af-
firm the principles of the People's platform
adopted two years ago,and ratify the nomination
of Hon. John T. Caine for delegate from this
Territory to the Forty-ninth Congress of the
United States.


[Column 1]
	LETTER TO AN OUTSIDER.

	Oct.	21st., 1884.
MY DEAR COUSIN:		
	Without further preliminary than just to say 
that your letter found myself and family well,

[Column 2]
and also that this leaves us in the enjoyment of
good health, I will plunge immediately into the
subject we are discussing.
	You say that viewing it only from our spiritu-
al standpoint you can see nothing wrong in our
practice of polygamy, but viewing it in a tem-
poral way it changes its aspect; that the deg-
radation, misery and unhappiness it subject
those to who practice it must quite overbalance
all the blessings they can hope to attain in the
future by an adherence to its laws in this life.
	Now, no principle can be spiritually right and
temporally wrong; and if polygamy does not add
to a man's temporal welfare it will not yield
him spiritual blessings. If it tends to aid him
in his spiritual existence, it will also add comfort
to his temporal life; if, as you say, it brings to
thoso who practice it only discontent, degrada-
tion and misery, then it is spiritually, morally,
and legally wrong. But, I ask, does it produce
these evils we have mentioned? The world says
that it does, because the world knows nothing
about it;but we who live in it and have practiced
it for years know better. We assert that polyga-
my does not have these evils attending it,and we
ought to know. You may travel from one end
of Utah to the other and you will not find one
family who is living in this order and is subser-
vient to the laws of God prescribed to them by
Him through His servants, who have unhappi-
ness in their midst. On the contrary, they are
freer from the evils of discontent and other trou-
bles than any I know who are living in monog-
omy, and if any are unhappy in this order it is
because they have failed to render obedience to
these laws I have mentioned.
	You say that where the man who marries
more wives than one is rich or well-to-do it may
soften the rugged appearance of this principle
a little, and were the practice of it confined to
those only who are able to maintain their wives
above the reach of want it would be more in
keeping with righteousness.
	I answer, that if polygamy savors of unright-
eousness and is a producer of evils, no amount
of wealth can help the matter any or eradicate
its evils. If it has advantages and blessings
that may be bestowed upon the rich man and
denied to the poor, then I must own it is not a
principle of heaven, for our Father is not so par-
tial as to bestow a portion of His Gospel upon
the rich to the exclusion of the poor. But let
us see whether plural marriage [---] not bestow
its happiness and advantages upon the family of
the poor man and add much to their temporal
welfare.
	I will tell you of a few facts that have come
under my observation that you may understand
the idea I wish to convey—facts that I have
learned from the very poorest of polygamic
families in Utah. One of these, with whom I
became acquainted about sixteen years ago, con-
sisted of the man, two wives and seven child-
ren. They were the poorest family at the time I
speak of that I ever saw, I think; but despite
their poverty, I think they were the happiest,
too, and I wondered that this could be so. Two
or three years after my first acquaintance with
them the man took a third wife, a young girl
seventeen years of age, and I said to myself,
“How will he ever keep the wolf from the door
with these three wives and ten children claim-
ing his support, etc." The scanty means he
possessed when I first knew them had wonder-
fully increased, but then the family had in-
creased most rapidly as well, so at the time the
addition was made to his family that I speak of,
the means for their support was still very mea-
gre indeed, that is the way I considered it, but
neither the man nor his wives seemed to mani-
fest any fear of starvation.
	They all occupied the same dwelling, in fact I
do not think he could possibly have furnished a


separate home for each had they desired to live
separate from each other, which they did not
wish to do, as I learned when once, in visiting
them, I ventured to question them as to whether
they did not think it would be more congenial
to their feelings if they lived in separate homes.
The first wife answered me, saying, "Oh, no, we
could not think of living separate,  even if the
command of God to His people was not to unite
themselves and families together and be of one
heart and mind, our own speculative genius
would prompt us to unite our efforts to better se-
cure advantages in making means, saving time
and lightening our labors."
	I asked her to explain how this was done. She
said: "It takes very little more time to cook a
meal for ten than it does for five, and in like pro-
portion is all the general housework for a family
decreased when the efforts of those to be cared
for are united for the accomplishment of it. By
each of us caring for one certain part or division
of work at a time, we save a great deal of labor
and time; by eating at one table less food is re-
quired than if we eat at three tables; besides
there is a saving of fuel, as one dwelling is
warmed with less wood than it takes to warm
three. We combine three washdays in one with
less labor and soap than if we made three of it.
	We have kept an account of the proceeds
gained by this management, and from it we
have been enabled this year to buy that sewing
maching, besides providing oursleves and chil-
dren with many little luxuries that poor men
cannot think of furnishing their families. The
time gained by this unity of labor gives us an
opportunity of reading many good books which
the wives of poor, laboring men seldom think of
taking time to read."
	"Well," I ventured again to say, "since you
are already united to one man, I see you are tak-
ing the wisest plan you could to get along. Bus
do you not think you would have been just at
well off in the way of means and been more
happy if you had not entered into this system,
but had enjoyed your husband's society by your-
self?"
	"Well," she said, "we might have been just
as well off, perhaps better in the way of means,
though I doubt it; but I know I could not have
been so happy as I am had my husband not tak-
en other wives, for many reasons."
	This good woman gave me many reasons, and
plausible ones, too, why she had desired and
maintained polygamy in her husband's house,
two or three of which I will rehearse to you,as to
mention more of them would be superfluous at
this time and make my letter too lengthy. She
said:
	"I was always a timid creature, and during
the early years of my married life,, whenever my
husband's duty called him from home, which it
frequently did, for a few days, the nights during
his absence were nights of sleepless terror for
me. Being of a social nature, and having al-
ways enjoyed the society of sisters at home, I
pined for the companionship of another woman
in my own house. Further, my first children
were cross and fretful, and the care of them
wore upon my health a great deal. I rightly
attributed the irritableness of their dispositions
to the never ending cares which, owing to our pe-
cuniary circumstances, were necessarily heaped
upon me during pregnancy; since my husband
brought his other wives home, we in turn re-
lieve each other from the cares of the household
and hard labor during this period of womanhood
and we are left to seek only that light labor and
diversion that pleases us best at that time; the
result is, the children born to us now, the other
women as well as myself, are peaceful, healthy,
happy and good natured children, which is a
more glorious boon to me than all the world's
wealth would be."
	Ah, I thought, is this not one of the keys
to the mystery as to why the homes of the
polygamous Mormons are filled with such rosy
faced, intelligent children as are seen nowhere
else? And this is a fact that has been noticed
and commented upon by almost every person
who has taken a peep into the homes of the
Utah polygamists, and many have wondered
that this degrading system, as they called it,
would produce such offspring.
	"And now," this woman continued, "should
Congress pass, and the government enforce a
law upon us that would tear my husband's
wives and children from him and me, then will
the light and happiness be gone from this house
and from my life entire, for they are near to me
as my own"
	I was for a time a boarder in this family, and
I wish I could have taken you with me there in-
to that home and shown you the system that
ruled there; you would have learned that the
idea that you and many others have imbibed
that a glimpse merely into the heart of a polyg-
amous household would sicken you of wishing
to become further initiated into its practices, is
simply a very erroneous idea. At six o'clock I
wind my way to the kitchen, where I find one
of the wives who, with the assistance of the eld-
est daughter, is preparing the breakfast for
the twenty-two members- including hired men
and boarders. Another wife is arousing the mi-
nor members of the family and washing and
dressing and making neat those of her children
who are not large enough to attend to this duty
themselves. "Her children," you say. Yes,
they are all hers this morning. I can see no dif-
ference in the care that each receives from her
hands. Beds are being aired and made, rooms
swept and dusted, by another. All this work
is completed by 7:30, when the bell sounds,
which brings every member of this family into
the dining room-the best room in the house-
for prayers and breakfast. The father leads in
prayer, a soul-inspiring petition to God for His
protection and peace to be with his family. I
wish I could repeat it all to you here. As soon
as breakfast is over the busy girls carry out the
dishes, and they are soon washed and the kitch-
en put in order under the direction of the house-
keeper. The milk is carried to the cellar and
the butter looked after by another  of busy
hands, and at ten o'clock, which is their usual
hour for rest and reading, we find the work of
these families has been done and no one has
been obliged to work herself weary, and each
one  ready to take up her paper, book or pen as
she sees fit, for an hour's diversion.
	Now, I've given you no fancy picture, it is one
of real life in Utah, and from it you can see that
polygamy is a benefit to the poor, temporally.
	And now can you wonder, as you say you have
done, that the women of Utah cling so tena-
cously to this principle of their faith, when they
could so easily rid themselves of its sighs and
burdens?
	Realizing, as they do, its beneficial influence
upon their families, and the strong ties by which
it unites the members of a household, it is not
to be wondered at that they show themselves as
ready to step forward and, if it is necessary, give
up liberty, or even life, in defense of it, as the
men are. To deprive them of the free exercise
of the principles of their faith, including that of 
polygamy, is to deprive them of that which
makes life bright and enjoyable, and they know
it; hence they meet with a determined resist-
ance every attempt of malicious, designing men
to snatch from them these blessings, and there-
by overthrow their happiness. They realize
hat to abolish they system of plural marriage is
to tear down and throw away the shield that the
Almighty has prepared for the protection of
their race from the awful evils that exist in the
nations, and must still exist through a coming
age, unless the women of the nations are made
to see the awful brink of destruction they are
standing upon the verge of.
	Testimonies of numbers of the women of Utah
of their belief and experience in the polygamy have
been published in the EXPONENT, several num-
bers of which you have received and probably, 
read. I feel that it is not necessary to add more
as my letter is laready lengthy.
	Hoping that you may receive what I have
written in the spirit is intended and with un-
biased judgement,
	I am, as ever, your cousin,
							Mc.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PATTY SESSIONS. 
[Continued.]
 On the 1st day of August Sister Sessions at-
tended the funeral of Bishop Knight. On the
4th went to the Relief Society where they had
a very good meeting, and afterwards attended
a prayer meeting. On the 6th she went with
Sister Chase to the Prophet Joseph’s and had
a good visit; the same day the Free Masons
went over the river. The Sunday following
Lyman Wight preached, and called for a con-
tribution to help Bro. George Miller to go to
the pine country. 8th, Bro, Joseph and Porter
Rockwell were made prisoners by the Missou-
rians on suspicion; they leave them in the hands
of the city marshall and have gone back to
Quincy. The next day she feels very much
cast down, not knowing what the result of the
arrest will be, but she sees the Prophet Joseph
and he appear cheerful. At night a guard
was sent, and she speaks of her son Peregrine
being one. 10th, “Bro. Joseph and Porter
missing; the sheriffs return.” 12th, “Sheriffs
here yet.” Then she writes she was making
shirts for Bro. Joseph. 13th, she receives a
letter from her husband, dated July 12th, from
the State of Maine. 16th, the sheriffs have
gone home.
On the 17th she speaks of attending a sis-
ter with a still-born child, and says it was the
first case of the kind she had ever had in more
than thirty years practice. Day after day
Sister Sessions, according to her diary, goes
out among the sick, and helps to lay out the
dead as well as officiating in her calling as a 
midwife.
On the 29th she rode out with her son David
to see the pottery and steam mill; says, too,
that she saw the Prophet ride by, going to at-
tend a special conference; this was the first
time she had seen him since he was missing, 
and her heart rejoiced to see him. 31st, she
speaks of a visit from Sisters Hyde and John-
son. Sept. 1st she speaks of going to Mr.
Marks’ and finding Martha and her babe both
very sick. On the 4th she speaks of attending
meeting, and a letter was read from Bro.
Joseph, who had gone away again because the
sheriffs were after him. Again and again she
she speaks of Mother Smith visiting her and
often stopping over night. On the 8th she
went to the funeral of a child, where Sidney
Rigdon preached. On the 11th went to meet-
ing, heard two letters, read from Bro. Joseph
Smith. On the 14th she attended the Relief
Society and afterwards went to a meeting at
Sister Leonards’; Sister Dooty and other sis-
ters were there, and they had a blessed time.
The 24th she speaks of as training day, and 
says Sister Buel was at her house. On Sunday,
Oct. 3rd, went to meeting and Sidney Rigdon
preached. She often speaks of her visits to
the sick, and of taking them something to
nourish them. On the 5th she went to see


Sister Emma Smith and found her very sick.
On the 6th she mentions,Sister Mileken and
Perry had been visiting her; the same day she
received a letter from her husband, which gave
her great joy. On the 9th she writes, Windsor
Lyon, her daughter’s husband, went to St.
Louis to purchase goods. On the 23rd Sister
Sessions went to see a sick woman, Dr. Brisle
was there, and she writes, “In my opinion he
officiated contrary to nature, or right, or rea-
son.” 31st she speaks of going to the Temple
to meeting. Speaks of going to Bro. Miliken’s
and finding Lucy, his wife; very sick. On the
6th of November Bro. Sessions returned
from his mission, and she rejoiced that all their
lives had been spared to meet again. On the
27th Sister Sessions having been called to at-
tend a sick woman, went through the severe
cold and froze her hands and toes. On the 7th
of December Bro. Orson Hyde, who had been
away, came home. On the 13th she was very
sick, the Prophet came and laid hands on her
and she was healed. From that time she
speaks of Joseph having visited-at her house
almost daily. On the 24th she says Sister Syl-
via Lyons had a little son born, but it only
lived twelve hours. "January 15th,” she says,
“Brother Joseph preached in his own house.
On the 17th it was fast day, and appointed to
give thanks for Joseph’s being set at liberty.
Bro. Orson Hyde preached,and she says it was
a day long to be remembered.
	On the 20th the says Orson Pratt and his
wife were re-baptized, and on the 22nd, Sab-
bath day, Bro. Joseph preached in the Temple
about baptism for the remission of sins. On
the 28th she speaks of Bro. Sessions being ill,
and Bro Joseph Smith and Orson Hyde came
and laid hands upon him. 29th, she says she
went to meeting; Bro. Joseph preached in the
Temple a sermon upon the Prodigal Son. On
the 12th of February she says Bro. Joseph was
at her house, and Mr. Lyons, Sylvia’s husband,
lent him five hundred dollars. She went to
Bro. William Hyde’s—his wife had a daughter.
On the 25th she says she visited, with Sisters
Hyde, Nobles, and Miss Louisa Beamen,at her
daughter’s, Sylvia Lyons. On the 6th of
April she attended the General Conference,
which lasted three days. On the 10th she
writes again that Sisters Hyde, Price, Browett
and herself, visit at her daughter Sylvia’s. “On
the 12th,” she says, "the first steamboat came
up the river" (for the season she means, I pre-
sume). On the 13th she says Parley P Pratt’s
family arrived, and her son Peregrine started
again for the State of Maine. June 25th she
went to meeting and Lyman Wight preached,
and she heard that Bro. Joseph was taken
prisoner again.
	The day following she called on Mother
Smith, and at that time paid to Prest. Joseph
Smith’s clerk, Bro. William Clayton , $10.25
towards the Temple. This was a very small
sum compared to the amount Sister Sessions
has since given toward Temple building, for it
has been her  happy lot to give a very great
deal to the different Temples that have been
built.
	On the 30th she says Bro. Joseph is at home
again; she went to see him, and then heard
him address the people from the stand after-
wards; it was a time of great joy and rejoicing.
"July 1st, Joseph had his trial to-day. July
4th, Bro. Joseph is free again, and many peo-
ple have come from afar to -day. Three steam-
boats landed. 29, Sister P. P. Pratt and Olive
Frost were here. August 11th, Judge Adams
died at 10 o’clock in the evening. On the 
13th she says she went to hear Bro. Joseph
preach Bro. Higbee’s funeral sermon. There
were some complaints against individuals, and
the Church withdrew fellowship from
Sidney Rigdon. This was a very im-
portant event in the Church, although,
probably, very little was thought about


it at the time. 17th, Brothers P. P.
Pratt and Orson Hyde started east. 18th
went to the Relief Society. Sister Sessions
adds here, "Almost every day I have been to
visit the sick for a very long time.” Sept. 1st
she went to the trial of Bro. Adams. On the
2nd she says she went to the Relief Society and
gave $6.75 to the poor. Ten weeks before she
gave 50.cts.
	Thus we see how Sister Sessions bestowed of
her means. Oct. 3rd she took dinner at the
Prophet Joseph’s, and on the 6th Semi-Annual
Conference convened and she attended; it lasted
three days. On the 9th of November she
says Sidney Rigdon preached. Judging from
this he must have been re-instated again by
that time. On the 21st she speaks of Joseph
preaching again—she speaks of many people
whose names we are very familiar with. On
the 8th of February her daughter, Sylvia
Lyons, was confined with a daughter. On the
8th she says she sent money to St. Louis to
buy a stove, which was quite an event in those
says, for the people had a hard struggle in
Nauvoo, partly on account of sickness"and
other circumstances, which kept them from be-
coming as prosperous as their thrift and energy
would otherwise have rendered them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿GENERAL MEETING Y. L. & P.A.

	Nov. 1st the semi-monthly meeting convened
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher. Singing
again. Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved, and minutes of Y. L. were read from
the 10th, 20th, 3rd, 8th, 19th and 7th Wards;
also P. A. minutes from the 20th, 2nd, 19th,
17th, 21st and 15th Wards.
	Prest. Horne then spoke for some time; re-
ferred to the excellent minutes that had been
read and the good instruction they contained.
Thoug humility was one of the virtues we
should cultivate, and improve our abilities and
opportunities, never neglecting any duty how-
ever small, and live near to the Lord that we
may always have His Spirit. Spoke very ably
upon the election, and urged the sisters to go
to the polls, those who were entitled to the
privilege, and also to attend the political rati-
fication meeting in the theatre on Monday
evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the political
position of Utah to-day, and urged the sisters
to remember Bro. Rudger Cawson in their
prayers and exercise faith that he might be set
at liberty.
	Mrs. E. B. Fletcher poke of her anxiety for
the yoath of Zion, her interest in the Primary
and Y. L. Mrs. Phebe Woodruff spoke in regard
to veting—that it was as much a duty as to
pray. Exhorted the sisters to be humble and
prap for those in authority for they are ex-
posed to great danger.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze said, it appeared that our
enemies were trying to crush us, but if all were
of her opinion it would be necessary to build
more prisons if they intend to send men and
women there for the practice of celestial mar-
riage. Spoke of having attended the Clawson
trial, and how her blood boiled with indigna-
tion, but she knew they would have to reap
what they had sewn.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball said she felt like the
last speaker, that our enemies wished to crush
us; but they had undertaken more than they
had imagined, for while we are willing to obey
the commandments of God and live up to
every principle He has revealed, we will find
Him our friend.
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and the
meeting was adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. E. S.
Taylor.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Sister Talitha C. Avery is our energetic and
worthy president of this place. The sisters of
the Relief Society got up a surprise for her on
the 22nd of Sept., it being the sixtieth anni-
versary of her birthday. At twelve o’clock a
bounteous dinner was prepared in the school-
house; when all was ready Sister Avery was in-
vited in; she was very much surprised to see so
many sitting down to four long tables filled
with the good things of the earth; about one
hundred partook of the sumptuous repast. Af-
ter dinner was over the tables were cleared
away and meeting was opened by singing and
prayer, after which songs, speeches, dialogues,
also a piece of poetry composed and read for
the occasion by Sister Esther Grange and an
acrostic by Sister Maria J. Wakefield; the
martial band also enlivened us with several
cheering tunes. A nice rug was then presented
by the sisters of the Society to Sister Avery,
with several other presents. The evening was
spent in dancing, social conversation, etc. It
was quite a joyful time, and will be long re-
membered by those who participated therein.
	Praying for the success of your valuable pa-
per as an exponent of truth and a vindicator
of our rights, I subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE M. ALGER.
Huntington.


PRIMARY YEARLY CONFERENCE.

	The three districts of the Primary Associa-
tion of Lehi City held a yearly conference
Oct. 18, 1884, President Caroline Ball presid-
ing. The exercises of the children were very
creditably rendered, exhibiting the effect of
careful training. We noticed a marked im-
provement from one year ago in the excellent
order of the children. One highly pleasing
feature was the “Tennessee Massacre,” recited by
a young lady; the singing was excellent, also
the exercises of the boys as well as the girls,
considering them, as we do, true indications of
future usefulness. It was plainly manifest that
the presidents and counselors of the several
districts had won the hearts of those children,
which is the key to success in moulding and
guiding in the right direction. Love is the
ruling power in these Associations. After the
exercises were gone through, Sisters A. K.
Smoot and Mary Johns of Provo addressed the
children, giving good instruction.
	After the meeting there followed a fair, which
showed the handy work of the children and
what they could accomplish by a little patience
and perseverance. They had a great variety
of fancy work, such as mats, tidies, dresses,
quilts, etc. There was a beautiful shawl of Ber-
lin wool made by a young lady eleven years of
age. The boys did their part in carpenter work
and agriculture; the carpenter work being put
together with much care. There was one arti-
cle which drew the attention of many, it was a
locomotive made by a young boy fourteen. The
agricultural products were fine.
	SARAH ANN BALL, Sec.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On Saturday, Nov. 8, we had the pleasure of
attending the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward of this city, 
Mrs. Louie B. Felt presiding; singing, "In the 
Chambers of the Mountains;" prayer by the Miss
Minnie Coult, one of the little girls; singing,
"Gather up the Sunbeams." Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved. Exercises
then commenced: Essay on "Obedience," by


Miss Sarah —; recitation, Miss Jane
Coult; Duet, "Only an Armor-bearer,” Misses
Lizzie and Etta Parsons; Recitation by Climise
Lawson; Song by Master John Donelson; Reci-
tation, Counselor Nettie Leaker, a child’s piece;
Address, Master George Coulam; Song by Miss
Polly Newson; Historical address by Miss Min-
nie Coult; Duet. “Whippoorwill,” by Misses
Laura Denney and Louie Felt (two very little
girls). Bible questions were answered by the
children in chorus.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters E. C
Clawson, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor, E. B.
Wells, H.T. King, M. A. Freeze and Bishop
McRae. Benediction by one of the members.
The meeting was an excellent one in every
respect, there being about one hundred and fifty
children present. Refreshments were served
ofter the close of the meeting.

	On Tuesday, Nov. 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. Howard and E. C. Clawson went to Sandy
to meet with the Relief Society and reorganize
the Primary. Two meetings were held, one
with the Relief Society and the other with the
children. Sister Clawson organized the Prim- 
ary with the following officers: Sister Hannah
Shaw, President; Jane Clark and Maggie Hew- 
lett, Counselors; Elizabeth Shaw, Secretary;
Ruth Lewis, Assistant Secretary; and Mary
Jano Lewis, Treasurer.

	While Sister. E. R. S. Smith was making a
tour through some of the settlements of Weber
Stake she visited Eden by special request, and
organized while there a Y. L. M. I. A. with Mar-
tha A. Ferron, President; Mary Jane Fuller
and Rosetta Larsen, Counselors; Elizabeth J.
Eggleston, Secretary; and Lucy L. Ferron,
Assistant Secretary; and Mary L. Eggleston,
Treasurer. 38 members were admitted.

	Thursday, Nov. 13th, Sister B. W. Smith
went to South Cottonwood and met with the
Primary at 11 a.m. Had a pretty good time,
and though there was no particular programme 
had a number of songs and recitations; alto-
gether they acquitted themselves very credit- 
ably. A number of the sisters spoke to them
and gave good counsel. Bro. Jones and another
brother spoke also. Sister Smith did her best
to encourage them; all felt that they had had
a good time and appeared satisfied with their
meeting.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society met.
Had a pretty good attendance. Sister Eliza
and others were expected, but could not come.
They had a very satisfactory report of the so-
ciety, had few sick and no poor to speak of.
They have a splendid hall of their own and are
furnishing it nicely. Sister B.W. Smith,
Prest. J. Y. Cahoon, Sisters Jones, Rawlins,
Pixton and two brethren addressed the meet-
ing. Expressed themselves as feeling well in
the Latter-day work.
	Sister Smith enjoyed the visit very much and
returned home tired, but happy, hoping she
had done some little good to her sisters and
the children.

	It is now very generally admitted that
Cleveland has a plurality of votes, and in all
probability his claims are established so far as
his party are able to ensure them to him. It
has been a closer contest though than either
party seemed to anticipate. What will trans-
pire between now and the 4th of March, 1885,
it is impossible to tell. One thing we know,
and that is, that there is a spirit of partyism
gaining ground in the United States that is
accompanied with such dire hatred and desire
for revenge as is not healthy to any nation or
people, and it has reached so great a height that
it seems likely to culminate in the same form 
in this broad Republic as in an absolute
monarchy, of which Pope wrote: “Uneasy
lies the head that wears a crown."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOW TO MAKE PICALILY.

	Chop large cucumbers, onions and cabbage and salt
them down for one night. In the morning draw off the 
brine and put all the articles to soak in weak vinegar
and water for two days; draw off again, mix the spice
in and boil five quarts of vinegar and five pounds of 
brown sugar, and pour on hot. Do this three mornings;
the third morning mix a teacup full of ground mustard, 
stir it well through the whole, put into a stone jar and 
cover securely.	M.G.W.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at her residence, in Tooele City, September 28th,
1884, Mrs. Mary C. De La Mar. She was baptized in the
[--]ll of 1849, by E'der William C. Dunbar in her native
land, the Island of Jersey, immigrated to the valley in
1852, and in 1853 removed to Tooele, where she has
been for many years identified as a practical Latter-day
Saint.
	She was called as teacher in the Relief Society in
1870, and in 1872 was chosen treasurer, which office she
held up to the time of her death, and by her integrity 
and uprightness won the confidence and love of all as-
sociated with her.
	She leaves a family of six living children and seven-
teen grandchildren, born and raised in plural marriage; 
and many times she has borne testimony of the truth
and purity of that holy principle.
	She has a son and son-in-law at present filling mis-
sions in Tennesee, but her faith was firm in God, and
she left them in His hands, knowing “all is well.”
	EMILY W.

	DIED in Fairview, July 11th, 1884, Nancy Emeline
Young, daughter of James M. and Mary A. Pritchett,
and wife of John Floyd Young. Sister Young was born
July 1st, 1842, in Rich Valley, Smith Co., Virginia, and
was baptised in 1858. Was married November 2nd, 1859-
came to Utah in 1865; moved to Fairview in Novem
ber, 1867.
	She was the mother or sixteen children, five of whom
died in infancy. She left a babe only a few hours old.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society almost from its
organization; always cheerful and willing to perform
the duties of her office in ministering to the wants of
the sick and needy.
	As a society and as friends we deeply sympathize
with her husband and family in their great loss, and
feel to commend them to our Heavenly Father, who
alone can comfort and sustain them.

	DIED, in Fairview, Aagust 30th, 1884, Florence Jane
Rees Young, born June 17th, 1850, in Smith Co., Vir-
ginia. Was married to Parley R Young October 30th,
1870, and came to Fairview the same year, where she re-
sided until her death.
	Sister Young had been a great sufferer for about ten
years. She died in the hope of a glorious resurrection,
leaving a husband, two daughters and many friends to
mourn her loss.
	LOIS ANN WILSON, Secretary.

	Catherine Lewis was born February, 1818, in London,
England; was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints August llth,l849, County Brackon,
South Wales. Immigrated to Utah July, 1871. She
died at her residence in Sandy, October 6th, 1884, at 6:10
a.m. She died as she had lived, a good, faithful Latter-
day Saint. She leaves a good husband, Phillip Lewis,
and eight children to mourn her loss.
	She attended Conference October 4th—was at two
meetings that day—took sick in the night, was admin-
istered to and came home Sunday evening and died
Monday morning, as stated.
	She was a member of the Relief Society, and held the
office of Counselor to the President from the organiza-
tion of the ward faithfully to the time of her death.
	W. O.


For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW,
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.         ''
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,      -    $1.00            ''
    ''         Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
               of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25       ''
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,-   1.50         ''
HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSRS, SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
						      engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY,. Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY, GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and COmplete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE_CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1884.					No. 13.


NEVER HOLD OUT A HAND TO THE
				DEVIL.

	“And when they say unto you, seek unto them who
have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and
mutter, should not a people seek unto their God? For
the living to the dead?--ISAIAH, viii, 19.”
			If light we desire
			Oh, why not enquire
	Of the Lord, who is pleased to bestow it?
			Who shall bind you and me,
			Whom the truth maketh free,
			Bid the “Evil One” flee—
	Nor yield him an inch if we know it.

			Why bow to "the Prince
			Of the Air," or evince
	Respect for his pestilent legions,
			Or foolishly seek
			Those who mutter and peep,
			Or their company keep
	Who’re bound for the bottomelss regions?

			And wherefore be found
			On the arch-Tempter’s ground,
	Or bring ourselves down to his level?
			Lest “he sift us as wheat,"
			Or our ruin complete
			And esteem it a feat—
	Never hold out a hand to the devil;

			Because of the snares,
			Many sink unawares,
	And unwittingly fall in temptation.
			'Tis “the turn of the tide,"
			And the best must be tried;
			May we faithful abide,
	Nor stumble o'er ev'ry vexation.

			In the Mighty and Just
			May we evermore trust,
	He is equal to all that oppose Him;
			Let the vile do and say
			Whatsoever they may;
			For guidance we’ll pray,
	Till the Lord in His wrath overthrows them.

			Need we shrink from the storm
			Whilst we lean on His arm,
	Whose command, yea, whose whisper can quell it?
			Let the hurricane blow,
			For our pilot we know,
			When he wills thus or so
	There exists not a power can annul it.

			To mortals is given
			The priesthood of heaven;
	An organization efficient
			To triumphantly tread
			On the “Old Serpent’s” head;
			While we seek Him who said;
	“For the weakest my grace is sufficient."
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


[first column]
MEDITATIONS ON THE PASSING
		YEAR--1884.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

 Again we are approaching one of those re-
volving periods in the: Book of Time in which
the thinking mind takes a long breathing
space, and thought runs back through the
scenes passed in the three hundred and sixty-
five days comprising the past year. We are
brought to a pose, the heart and brain natu-
rally run back and gaze once again upon the
joys and sorrows—sickness and bereavements,
experience during the past year; and we can
not fail to recall the blessings also that have
attended us through all; so palpable have been
these that the hand of the Lord was revealed
through all; how He had sustained and com-
forted us in all our trials and afflictions; how
He had opened the hearts of friends to be es-
pecially kind to us, and to tender to us the help
or comfort that we stood in need of; how He
had made us especially to realize His words,
penned by one of His most inspired Prophets:
"Fear not, I am with thee, thou art mine!"
And under the inspiration of these words, the
sun of our system burst forth, shedding light
and warmth upon us, and we rose up and went
on our way rejoicing—we cast our eyes over
the beautiful world He had made for the resi-
dence of His creatures, human and animal, yet
even they have been studied that their tastes,
and appetites might be fully gratified. The
tiniest insect has not been forgotten or over-
looked by any means; if we take, the micro-
scope we can behold how busy the MAKER
hath been in fashioning its tiny organization, in
beautifying its minute body with royal colors,
the purple and the gold, in not leaving out any
attribute that would add pleasure to its ephe-
meral existence—all has been. freely lavished
on them and they are as independent in their
sphere as the potentate of humanity.
	Every one ought to possess a microscope,
that they might enter into a new world of
beauty and of wonder that would then be pre-
sented to their view. The means of human
knowledge is immense in this enlightened age,
but it mournfully tells us how ignorant we
are—yet ’tis true that we are wiser than we
know, there is a fund of intelligence hidden in
the human strata that requires a proper time
and a master hand to bring it forth. Who
would think for a moment that fire is contained
in the cold, opaque flint; had it not been dem-
onstrated? This is an appropriate simile to
thousands of beautiful hidden flowers. The
human intelligence has been developed marvel-
ously within the present century, and it gives
us an assurance that in the next we shall see
greater things than these, sending the present
discoveries into comparative insignificance; the
power of steam has been applied and brought
to its present perfection within the past fifty
years; electricity also being its necessary con-
comitant, with its startling effects; the electric
telegraph, the telephone, with their thrilling
developments, giving us the power to speak
with friends and loved ones a hundred miles
off, and they can hear our identical voice; and
then the sub-marine telegraph, that astound-
ing grasp of scientific ability; also the railroad
under the bed of the Thames, and the under-
ground railroad beneath the Metropolis of
England; the electric light—I might go on to
enumerate the saving of human labor by ma-
chinery of every sort, and then the half is not
told. Surely the mind must be obtuse indeed
that does not see the hand of the Great Arch-
itect of the Universe working with His agent
—man; realizing “there is a spirit in him,
but God giveth it inspiration.” Yet it is His
revelation that is flooding the human mind.
These are only the beginning of wonders, the
spirit of revelation broods over this mundane
sphere in this 19th century, bringing out the
latent powers of the human mind the God in
embryo hid up in that complex machine, the
human body, propelled by the “divinity that
stirs within it ” Religion and science are twin-
sisters, and will yet be so acknowledged.
Pass on, old year, we hail with joy the advent
of the new.


LA FEMME DE LAFAYETTE.

	The ancient French city of Puy has recent-
ly celebrated the inauguration of the statue of
General Lafayette. The orators who assisted in
the commemoration of this illustrious patriot
have not been able to give, in the history of
the General, but a part worthy of him, or
worthy of her, the noble consort and cheerful
participator of his diversified fortunes and
chequered career; and this for a two-fold rea-
son.
	Public speakers in celebrations of this kind
have not the time, neither again the question-
able taste to enter into the intimate relations
of the life of the heroes they eulogize; above
all when their public life offers a sufficient
subject as vast as it is’intricate; and then Mme.
de Lafayette was also as modest as she was
active in her devotedness; her virtue was too
sincere to admit the love of commendation; she
realized that she had but done her duty, even
when she pressed its accomplishment to the
acme of heroism. At all events, she believed
herself sufficiently recompensed by the love of
an adored husband—love of which he gave
such an eloquent proof in wishing to carry in-
to the tomb, placed upon his heart, as a title to
a re-union in the other life, the medallion con-
taining the portrait of her who had been an
admirable wife and an exemplary mother.
	This trait, so touching and but little known,
sufficed to attest in what estimation the Gen-
eral held this wife, the tender love of which
inspired so many manly resolutions. It has
conceived the thought to M. de Lescure of
making a research of the fact which entitled
Mme, de Lafayette to the admiration and un-
fading remembrance of her husband, and to
sketch thus as a margin to the history of La-
fayette, like a bas-relief at the foot of a statue
—the history and the image of the accom-
plished and discreet wife who honored his fire-
side and who was his consolation by the fidel-
ety of an heroic love through all the vicissi-
tudes of glory and the intermittances of popu-
larity.
	Mme. De Lafayette was a Noailles, one of
the five danghters of the third Due d’Ayen.
Le 4 Thermidor an II (22 June, 1694) in one
“single batch” she lost, by the merciless
guillotine, her mother, the Duchesse d’Ayen,
her grandmother, the Marechale De Noailles
and the Vicomtesse De Noailles, her eldest
sister, married to one of her cousins. The old
Marechale was eighty-six years of age,and had
fallen into a state of entire imbecility. Her
daughter and granddaughters were obliged to
sustain her under the arms to enable her to
mount the scaffold, for she scarcely walked any;
she sang and laughed, imd jocosely inquired if
they were not conducting her a la promenade.
The terror caused this poor old head to totter.
	Adrienne De Noailles was married to the
Marquis De Lafayette on the 11th of April,
1774. She was twelve and a half, he being 
seventeen. These mariages between juveniles
were frequent among the French nobility, but
following the sayings of the times, "on ne met-
tait pas toujours les epoux ensemble." A speci-
fied time was appointed when the marriage
should receive a legitimate consummation. Na-
turally this little married couple sought to, and
finally succeeded in rejoining each other. One
day the young husband penetrated to the apart-
ment of his petite wife and turned the key.
The principle relatives were angry and scolded,


but laughing in their sleeves muttered: "Look
at the little dog!" The city and the court
amused themselves with it, and the gazettes
contained the adventure. This was very
piquant. In our days they would have made
of it one of the operettas.
	Mme De Lafayette made her first communion
after having been married six years, and the
same year became a mother.
	But behold, at the end of three years of
married life, the young husband decamped one
fine night. He excused himself by des lettres
eloguentes directed to his wife, and also direct-
ed to the Duchesse d'Ayen, his mother-in-law. 
He had believed it to be his duty to depart fur-
tively, because they would have restrained him
if he had made known his design. This was not
for a little voyage, and he states plainly that he
intends crossing the ocean. He speeds, he flies
to America. He wishes to put his virgin sword
to the service of the insurgents against Eng-
land, and contribute himself, a gentleman by
birth, to found a first republic. His wife in 1777
voluntarily pardoned his escapade. This gen-
erous zeal for liberty beyond the sea took the
color of heroism and romance, which raised the
admiration of the young courtiers even in the
immediate surroundings of the king. It was
only the old Noblesse which shook their heads
--this was not bad going to give liberty to
America. But, see there! If the people de-
manded it as well in France!
	But the wife of the young hero could not be
unforgiving; indeed, to the contrary, had she
not loved him more for this noble weariness of
inoccupation, for this manly ambition for an
occasion to distinguish himself, for this grave
design so courageously disguised, for this secret
so well concealed, for this audacious departure,
for this modest bravery and ardent desire to
win those pure laurels, not of the couqueror,
but those of the liberator, the chaplet of which
he wished his wife to participate in the crown-
ing honors with himself, and engarland as
trophies the cradle of his children. And thus,
really, he was of the same opinion as Mme. De
Lafayette. The return of the liberator tri-
umphed over all pretentions; when he was seen,
when he was heard, he was not only pardoned,
but admired, adored. All Paris had for him
the same eyes as his wife. As a consecration,
as a living testimony of the great happiness of
the first return, that of Feb., 1779, scarcely re-
vealing the dawning of this glory, which had
not blazed forth until in 1782 with victory and
peace. Mme De Lafayette gave birth, on the
24th of Dec., 1779, to the son expected, the son
desired, the inheritor of the name George
Washington De Lafayette. And it is to
Washington that the mother confided her son
when the reign of terror had driven her hus-
band from France, when her mother, her sister
and her grandmother were sentenced to pay
with their life the crime of their birth, and
when she, under a decree of arrest, had been
conducted to Paris, where the revolutionary
tribune attended her.
    At the end of May, 1794 the citoyenne La-
fayette was transferred to Paris, committed to
the Petite Force, then to the Luxembourg Le
9 Thermidor. She was not discharged. She
did not gain her liberty until the 23rd of Jan.,
1795, when she obtained a passport for America,
but embarked at Dunkirk for destination to
Hamburg. In September she arrived at vienna
with her two daughters.
	Now comes the most interesting portion of
the life of this faithful spouse. By the media-
tion of the Prince De Rosemborg, Grand
Chamberlain, Mme De Lafayette obtained an
audience with the Emperor, unknown to his
ministers. After a detention of sixteen months
she had come simply and naturally to solicit
the favor of sharing the captivity of her hus-
band, who had been languishing in duress
these three years. This favor was accorded to 
her.
    Mme De Lafayette and her daughters par-
took during two long years, the captivity of
the General. The fair prisoners were treated
with a consideration which was free from rigor.
For consoling herself in the evening--while
the eldest daughter served as secretary to her
father, or as a substitute for workers outside,
threw down the pen for the scissors and the
needle, and cut out and put together the shoes
for the family--Mme De Lafayette wrote slow-
ly the life of her mother, with a tooth-pick
dipped in a little dissolved India ink, upon
the margin of the engravings of a volume of
Buffon.
	The liberation of Lafayette and his compan-
ions was due to one of the clauses of the treaty
of Campo-Formio. The portals of the citadel
d'Olmutz were thrown open for the French
prisoners the 19th of September, 1797, after
five years and one month of involuntary cap-
tivity for Lafayette and his companion prison-
ers, and twenty-three months of voluntary
captivity for his wife and daughters; but they
did not re-enter France until after the 18th
Brumaire.
	Mme De Lafayette died December 24th,
1807 of the malady, the germ of which she
contracted in the prison d'Olmutz.
	Translated from a French Journal by George
Hamlin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
     The evening after the departure of Bishop
Whitney, Brothers Woolley and Van Cott, a
council was held at Bro. Russel's tent, where a
committee was chosen to select locations for the
winter, between the village and the Old Fort,
as sanctioned by the Indians. Committee’s
names: Fathers Eldredge and Cutler, Bro's
A. P. Rockwood, Winslow Farr and J. M.
Grant.  They started next day, though the
weather was stormy, and continued so two or
three days.	*	*	*
     "Sunday, the 30th.  Meeting was held at
the stand, commencing at 10 a.m.  Elder O.
Pratt opened the meeting by prayer and said
he would endeavor to occupy the time, by the
President's request, till he and Bro. Kimball
should arrive.  He then spoke on general mat-
ters for a while, when, the President arriving,
he said he would stop, but by his request he
proceeded.  His subject was the necessity of
education to the Elders of Israel, and to the
children in the camp.  He was followed by
Bro. Kimball, who spoke in corroboration of
his remarks, and spoke at some length on the
government of the Kingdom of God.
     Horace Eldredge, the Marshall, then arose
and told the congregation of the late resolu-
tions adopted by the council.
     President Young succeeded him, and spoke
at some length, sanctioning what Bro. Kimball
had said, and then went on treating on miscel-
laneous matters, and gave a great deal of good
instruction.  "After singing by the choir, the
meeting was closed with prayer by Jedediah
M. Grant."
     On the 14th my husband's journal mentions
B. Young, H. C. Kimball and others still be-
ing engaged in laying out city lots.
     Bro. Joseph Harvey's wife died on the morn-
ing of the 6th.  She had been very ill for some
time--"He had recently come from Nauvoo,
and had spent a great deal of his time and
substance in fitting others out for the journey
before he started himself; the consequence is
that he is very sick himself.  His wife left

[column 2]
three small children.  Bro. Kimball had him
put into Daniel Davis's tent that he might be
nearer to us, and thus have better care and
more attention paid to him."
     The next day being warm and pleasant some
of the boys were engaged in cutting and draw-
ing house logs.  Horace speaks of attending
council that evening with my father, President
Young and others of the brethren.  He says:
     "It had already commenced when we arri-
ved; they were reading a report brought by one
of the brethren who came from the Punkaw
nation; the substance of which was, that Bishop
Miller's company were located on a stream
called Running Water, or Punkaw river, and
two hundred miles from this place; that they
were uniformly used well by the Indians, had
good forage for the cattle, etc.  Bro. Grant, by
vote of the council, gave an oral report of his
visit to the village at the point.  He had seen
Mr. Sarpee and he was willing that we should
remove the ferry boat to the new place that we
had selected, as he had a Mackinaw boat of his
own that would answer his purpose.  Mr. Sar-
pee also informed him that he had lately seen
a Dr. Mann, who, he said, was at the massacre
at Haun's Mill in Missouri, and a regular
mobocrat, who told him that the State Marshal
of Missouri, with a posse, was on his way here
to arrest the Twelve.  Bro. Grant also stated
that the Secretary of War had written to the
Indian agent to have the Mormons leave the
Pottawotomie lands on the other side of the
river as soon as may be."
     He mentions seeing a letter written by Sister
Diantha Billings to "Brother Kimball's folks,
in which is recorded a speciment of Indian jus-
tice.  It appears that one of the young Pun-
kaw Indians had shot an arrow into one of
Bro. Brigham's cattle, for which misdemeanor
he was taken by the Indians of his own tribe
and whipped, his pony shot and one of his own
eyes dug out."


MISCELLANEOUS.

     Religion is the hospital of the soul that the
world has wounded.--J. Petit. Senn.

     "The most ignorant have knowledge enough
to discover the faults of others; the most clear-
sighted are blind to their own."

     "The Italian Post-office not only sends post-
office orders and telegraphs money at home and
abroad, but insures packages of money by the
mails.

	“The best of a book is not the thought which
it contains, but the thought which it suggests,
just as the charm of music dwells not in the
tones, but in the echoes of our hearts.

     If instead of a gem, or even a flower, we
would cast the gift of a lovely thought into the
heart of a friend, that would be giving as the
angels must give.--Geo. MacDonald.

     "The glory of man consists not merely in
looking up to what is above him, but in lifting
up what is below him; the noblest and most ex-
alted character is also the tenderest and most
helpful.

     "In these degenerate times a great many men
may be found in bar-rooms, gesticulating wild-
ly and proclaiming their intention of support-
ing this or that political party, when they
would appear to much better advantage sup-
porting their families.

     The spirit of liberty is not merely, as some
people imagine, a jealousy of our own particu-
lar right, but a respect for the rights of others,
and an unwillingness that any man, whether
high or low, should be wronged and trampled
under foot.-- Channing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS. 

LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO THE MEMORY OF OUR DE-
PARTED FRIEND, MARIA J. BOOTH.

The pale moon shines out from the western sky,
	The east is rosy with the coming dawn;
To woo sweet sleep no longer will I try,
	That soothing messenger has long since gone
And left me busy with the scenes of yore,
	Whose vivid memories throng my wakeful brain,
Where long I've sought amid its scanty lore
	Bright gems of thought in vain.

Sad tidings reach us in our far-off home,
	That swell the fountain of our hearts with grief,
With sympathy could consolation come,
	Our sorrowing friends would find a sure relief.
One more dear friend is numbered with the dead;
	Her husband absent at this trying hour,
His lonely threshold he will ere long tread--
	O God, support him by Thy power.

With him we know the parting pain yet lingers
	Of little more than three short years ago.
When ghastly death, with cruel, icy fingers,
	Laid one dear member of his household low;
And now again we read in mournful measures,
	Death claims another one so pure and fair,
Which leaves his tender household treasures
	Without a mother's loving care.

When on my home returning trip last May
	I spent a week with this dear friend of mine;
I knew her husband had been called away
	Upon God's errand to a distant clime.
With patient zeal I saw her once more drain
	That mingled cup of earthly bliss and woe,
For woman’s' supremest joy and pain
	Still hand in hand must go.

When in the mother's arms we laid her little son,
	With loving pride a welcome sweet she sailed,
Like some brave warrior o'er a battle won,
	Well paid for all, in this her precious child,
By which a golden link is added to the chain
	Of endless lives in fairer worlds than this,
O’er whom her husband and herself my reign
	Through coming ages of eternal bliss.

As o’er her snowy couch I bent with loving care
	To brush the lustrous waves of ruddy gold
That crowned her queenly head with beauty rare
	In nature's grand and perfect mould,
I little dreamed that it would be the last
	Sweet taste of fellowhip on earth that we
Would e'er enjoy until we both should pass
	The shining portals of Eternity.

The last sweet message from her hand received,
	A note of sadness breathed from ev'ry key;
Her loving heart, like many others, grieved
	O'er dreadful news from far-off Tennessee.
Fresh in my memory are the plaintive words she spoke
	The dream that he, her loved one, had returned;
That when her mind from restless slumber woke,
	Peculiar feelings in her bosom burned.

'Tis true events of coming time do often cast
	Their fitful shadows o'er our pathway here,
Misunderstood until fulfilled at last;
	We then look back and read their meaning clear;
And ere the missive was complete, she said,
	"The mourning bells ring out a requiem drear,
Ma Smoot's pure spirit from this earth has fled
	To realms of glory in a higher sphere."

And now, sweet friend, a brief farewell to thee;
	May we alike prove true to every trust,
And when our spirits like thine own are free,
	This frail mortality has sought its kindred dust,
Oh, may we meet the loved ones gone before
	In robes of pure celestial glory dressed,
Sweet anthems sing on that elysian shore
	Where weary souls find rest.
					MARY A. FARNSWORTH.
Moan Coppy, Arizona, Nove. 15th, 1884.


SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY FOR
PLURAL MARRIAGE.

     "Yet setteth He the poor on high, from af-
fliction and maketh Him families like a flock."
--Psalms, xi, 41.

[column 2]
     "The righteous shall see it and rejoice, and
all iniquity shall stop her mouth."--42.
     This is the last time, when God will restore
all things as at the beginning.  In the days of
the ancient covenant people of the Lord, He
approved of His servants having more wives
the ceremony was the same with one as an-
other, his children were legitimate and God
blessed them.  As in the case of Abraham,
Jacob, David, Solomon and others, God blessed
the seed of plural marriage.
     Gen. XXXV, 11.  "And God said unto him:
Jacob, I am God Almighty: be faithful and
multiply, a nation, and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  Now God had this talk with Jacob
after he had lived in the marriage relation with
four wives.  Do our persecutors think that
God has changed?  He is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever.  He has again restored
this order of marriage, which is for time and
all eternity, and is in line with that holy order
established by righteous men whose posterity
is traced to the Savior's birth, through Solo-
mon, born in the marriage relation; his wives
were given to him by Nathan the Prophet.
John the Baptist was of this lineage, being a
literal descendant of Aaron.  God must have
looked upon plural marriage as being right and
lawful in His sight, or He would not have sent
His only begotten Son through their posterity.
"And the Lord God shall give unto Him the
throne of His father David; and He shall
reign over the house of Jacob forever."  Luke,
i, 32, 33.
     What, over the house of a man that lived
with four wives in the marriage relation?  O
dear! those men in the East must be horrified
when they read "the Gospel according to St.
Luke."  "And of His kingdom there shall be
no end."  Now if Christ has a kingdom He
must have subjects, and they are polygamists
and their offspring, and He calls David father
who established His throne, that great polyga-
mist; then David's son Solomon must be His
brother, and if He reigns over the house of
Jacob, his posterity must be the subjects of His
kingdom.
     We read in the New Testament that we 
must do the words of Abraham to become his
children, and God said He would be called
their God, and He was a friend of Abraham.
And the twelve sons of Jacob made twelve
tribes that God called Israel, and He has their
names written on the twelve gates of pearl, the
New Jerusalem, in which Latter-day Saints
can enter because they practice this Bible doc-
trine as God has revealed it to them before
any law was made against it.  "In that day
seven women shall take hold of one man and
shall say, let us be called by thy name to take
away our reproach, and we will eat our own
bread and wear our own apparel."  Should
not wonder if some of the wives of those who
fight against this doctrine did not plead to
be saved by one holding authority to seal on
earth and in heaven.
     Women do understand religious principle as
a general thing better than men, and they will
yet come and ask favors at the hands of those
who have power to seal on earth and in heaven
for their minister has only married them "until
death doth them part;"  and that, too, without
authority from God, they have not power even
to bind on earth.
     Let us, dear sisters, be thankful that we are
married in the Lord.  "What God has joined
together let no man put asunder."  They have
no power to put us asunder; we are married by
God's law.  Do they think that prison bolts
can sever the marriage tie?  It is ratified in
the heavens.  They ask us a true question, are
you this man's wife?  When were you married?
They have to acknowledge the true coin to get
hold of the handle.  It reminds me "And the

[column 3]
writing was, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of
the Jews."  The Jews wanted it changed but
had not the power.
MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 20, 1884.


GOSHEN Y. L. AND PRIMARY FAIR.
	A feeling of delightful admiration came over
the people on entering the shoolhouse, which
was most beautifully decorated with the handi-
work of the members of the Y. L. and Primary
Associations. It was surprising to see the
beautiful articles made by the youth of this
place. At a glance one could note the im-
provement made on previous years. How can
the world say the sons and daughters of Zion
are not intelligent? We are sure they would
not believe that statement if they would visit
the fairs among the Saints and see the bright
faces of the children beaming with intelligence,
and see the many beautiful things made by
them.
	Some very handsome quilts were exhibited,
done by the elder members; also neatly done
patchwork and cradle quilts by our very small
children. There were rugs, mats of various
kinds, flowers on velvet, canvas and hair work,
shawls, infants' wear, stockings, brackets, laces,
tidies, embroideries, mottoes, slippers, wool, card-
ed and spun, window curtains, aprons, and
other clothing; also varions articles of food and
vegetables, walking canes, hay rakes, ladders, a
centre table, and many other things too numer-
ous to mention.
	Two meetings were held, one at 10 a.m. and
the other at 2 p.m. In the morning the time
was spent in listening to the remarks of our
Bishop, our Primary President, and other
members of the Ward. In the afternoon we
were highly interested in listening to a spicily
arranged programme, consisting of songs, reci-
tations and dialogues. In all, we had a pleas-
urable and enjoyable time.
LUCY TAYLOR.
Oct. 18, 1884.


A SOCIABLE PARTY.

    The Y. I. M. I. A. of the Eighth Ward
held a social picnic and meeting as a surprise
to the Secretary, in honor of her birthday, Oct.
29th, 1884. After the opening exercises the
President arose and stated the object of the
meeting and presented a quilt to the Secretary
made by the officers and members. Miss S. A.
Hawkins then returned her thanks to all pres-
ent. The names of the committee are as fol-
lows: Counselor S. J. Chamberlain, Chairman,
Lucy Chamberlain, Jennie Smith, Jennie Mor-
tensen, Annie Lynch, Lucy Oakey, Mattie
Sheets, Mary Shank and Mrs. Jennie Young.
Misses Lucy Chamberlain and S. A. Hawkins,
invitation committee.
    After a short programme the following
named sisters made some very good remarks:
Sister E.R.S. Smith, Prest. M.A. Freeze,Sis-
ters Elizabeth Howard and Mattie Horne Tin-
gey, and E. B. Fletcher Prest. of the Relief
Society.
    After meeting those present partook of a
bounteous repast prepared by the young ladies.
			MRS. M. B. LEAVER, Prest.
			MISS SARAH A. HAWKINS, Sec.


“Some people talk as if the whole object of
life was to obtain liberty, instead of the whole
object of liberty being to attain a higher and
fuller life. To be free to speak, to write, and
to act just as we choose is certainly a thing to
be desired; but a far higher aspiration than
this would be that we should only choose to
speak, to write, or to do that which is true, fit-
ting and valuable.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Late City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten .opies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s ,uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt	Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1884.


MISS FAITHFUL AGAIN.

    Again we take up the pen to pick up a thread
or two omitted in the former notice of Miss
Faithfull's Chapters on Utah. It would be very
wrong not to contradict the statement made
concerning Sister Eliza Snow, whose life and
labors among this people have ever been so
faithfully and efficiently performed. Sister
Eliza is above slander. It cannot touch her in
her magnanimity of character, but for the sake
of the principle involved, and one which the
Latter-day Saints hold sacred and divine we
feel called upon to reply to the infamous asser-
tion which Miss F. has quoted in her book. She
states that she was told of this matter and then
comments. It does seem as though a woman of
Miss Faithfull's age and experience, after hav-
ing seen Sister Eliza Snow herself, and having
some conversation with her upon that very
principle, would have had better judgment than
to repeat such a wicked story without having
further authority than "I was told." We will
give her own version as she has published it.
"I was told of a wife who had sought Eliza
Snow's counsel in the supreme hour of her an-
guish--when her dearly loved husband was
about to take unto himself a second wife, a
prettier and more attractive girl than herself.
    " 'I cannot live,' she cried in despair, 'and see
her with him.'
    " 'Pray for resignation,' said the poetess.
    " 'I do, but I shall die if he brings her home!'
was still the despairing response.
    "The woman must indeed have been lost in
the priestess before Eliza Snow's lips could have
framed the cruel answer, 'Die, then! There are
hundreds of women up in that burying ground
who have gone there because they could not be
resigned to the will and order of God.' "
    This is the statement, and the only authority
she gives for it. Now, we know Eliza Snow;
have known her for forty years; a great part of
that time most intimately, in her works and
labors; have traveled with her through the dif-
ferent stakes of Zion; have seen her in all the
various circumstances and situations incident to
such journeyings, when we meet the people in
their homes and by the fireside, as well as in
public gatherings, and never have we heard
from her lips anything like unkindness to those
who came for sympathy or counsel, but on the
contrary when sisters, passing through any se-
vere trial or affliction, have sought her, she has
poured out sympathy and consolation in such a
spirit of humility and love that it has imparted 
comfort and blessing, especially as she is a
woman gifted with power in that direction, and
has a great influence over those with whom she
mingles. It would not be possible for Eliza
Snow, we speak advisedly, to make such a re-
mark; not only is it contrary to her own woman-
ly nature and character, but it is contrary to the
principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
she holds to be higher than anything else. There
is no place nor people who have a greater regard
for each other's individual feelings than in Utah
and among the "Mormons."
    Sister Eliza Snow has ever shown a kindly
feeling for the "stranger in our midst," and she
devotes a large portion of her very valuable
time to talk to and enlighten those seeking for
information upon the subject of the Latter-day
Saints. Often she has been kindly spoken of
afterwards by the press and so on, and others
have misrepresented her as in the case of Miss
Faithful, but never have we seen a more cruel
and unjust falsehood published about a woman
who devotes her life to doing good to others, than
the one we have alluded to here; however it is
the fate of all those who follow in the footsteps
of our Savior, to be evil spoken of by the world.
As for Sister Eliza Snow herself she lives so far
above any slander or misrepresentation that it
cannot reach her at all, and she can afford it,
but those who circulate such evil reports can
very ill afford it. They will have it to meet in
the great hereafter, when all must give an ac-
count of the deeds done in the body.
    It may perhaps be thought we are taking up
too much space in contradicting Miss F's asser-
tions, but there is one other point which is real-
ly an important one, and that is, her seeking to
enlist Queen Victoria and the English Govern-
ment in some way to hinder emigration from
that country. She says: "A very large propor-
tion of the victims," wrote the Chicago Inter
Ocean, "are importations from Great Britain.
Missionaries, supplied with ample letters of cred-
it, act as panders for polygamy in large towns
and hamlets, inducing poor people to accept
family tickets to Utah, generally with-holding
from them the knowledge of what awaits the
girls of the household. Mr. Evarts, when Sec-
retary of State, tried to check this evil through
consuls, but he could accomplish nothing.
Queen Victoria should protect her subjects from
such an imposition. Our government would
gladly co-operate in any feasible plan having
that object in view." After quoting this pas-
sage from the Inter Ocean, she adds, "How far
Her Majesty can protect her subjects in this di-
rection I cannot undertake to say; believing that
some service can be done by presenting to the
public true pictures of Mormon life, I have en-
deavored in these pages to give my readers the
benefit of all the information I obtained while
residing among this "peculiar people," which I
consider has an important bearing on the extra-
ordinary phase presented to the world by the so-
cial life and practices of the Latter-day Saints."
She then elaborates the matter more fully and
says that several letters addressed to her are
lying by her side, and quotes upon the subject
the following from one:
    "Agents of Mormonism are still inducing
numbers of our young people, in the east of
London, to go out of our country; they are de-
luded by the missionary's perversion of the
Scriptures, to suit his own inclinations, and al-
lured with the belief that in Salt Lake City
they will find Zion or Paradise at once."
    Then she tells a dreadful tale of misery and
horror to substantiate what she has said, and
adds, "It is one of the many sad histories I know
to be true." She does not tell us how she knows
so much, and speaks of her residence here as if
she had remained in Utah some considerable
time, whereas, the truth is, she was only here a
very few days.
    Now, we know how utterly false all her state-
ments are; we know well that our Elders go to
preach the Gospel, to carry the glad tidings of
salvation, such as the Latter-day Saints en-
joy, to those who sit in darkness; go without
purse or scrip, trusting in God to provide their
daily food; they have no letters of credit, nor
even money in their purse, except, sometimes,
sufficient to take them to their place of destina-
tion, and they carry no flattering tidings to in-
duce any to emigrate, but preach the word of
God, which, when received by the honest heart,
awakens in the recipient of the Holy Spirit, a
desire to gather to Zion, a desire which often
becomes so great that it is hard for those who
preside over the branches of the Church abroad to
induce converts to remain until it is wisdom for
them to come. Those who have been upon these
missions know that this is true; we have often
heard the Elders allude to these things. There
may occassionally be an instance where people
are dissatisfied after they come to Utah, but
such instances are the exception and not the
rule; they prosper here, and their circumstances
are usually much more independent than they
were in the old country. As for young women,
they have their own agency to do just as they
wish about marriage; as a general thing they de-
sire to be united to a good man, a man of honor,
a Latter-day Saint, and why should they not?
And as for the women helping to support the
family, it is our candid opinion there is less of it
done in Utah than in other places. Women
everywhere among the working classes expect
to do something to help with the living if there
is a large family, and if the histories of women's 
lives are ta be taken to prove the condition of
women in Great Britain, we have heard from
the lips of English women themselves, tales
more heart-rending and sickening, more horri-
fying and revolting than those Miss Faithfull
and other similar writers against Mormonism
can tell of the "horrors of polygamy." Besides,
why not take the testimony of women living in
that order, instead of those who are so anxious
to crush out the life saving and vital principle?
Have not the Latter-day Saints a right to work
as well as other laboring people, and is not all
honest work honorable, whether done by men
or women? And when women are happy can
they not do more work, and do it better, than
those who restless and dissatisfied with life, and
forever trying to make others as wretched as they
are themselves.
    If Miss Faithfull and a few others who have
come here to find out the mysteries of plural
marriage and publish it to the world would take
a little more time to investigate the horrors of
their own cities and towns, they would find
polygamy sink into insignificance when com-
pared with the terrible crimes that are becoming
prevalent in their own localities. We judge by
the statistics published and "he who runs may
read.' Mormon women who remain faithful
and true to the covenants they have made in
holy places, have nothing to fear either from
judges, juries, or publishers, for they know for
themselves and not for another, that God is with
this people, and though men revile, and slander,
and persecute, and say all manner of evil, and
women, too, yet they have an assurance that is
eternal, that reaches beyond the grave, and no
man or woman can take away the peace and
consolation this gives to the Latter-day Saint.
We bear no ill-will or malice to Miss Faithfull,
but what she has written will stand as a wit-
ness against her.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms on Friday, December
26th, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p m. Ver-
bal reports from each branch will be expected,
and it is hoped there will be a good attendance.
The Primary Associations will hold their Con-


ference Saturday, 27th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and the Y. L. M. I. A. on the same day, com-
mencing at 2 p. m.
	The Presidents message has been delivered
and Utah has not been forgotten. He seems to
have accepted the advice of the Utah Commis-
sion, and would be glad to give Congress abso-
lute political control of the Territory. The fol-
lowing is an extract from the message:
THE UTAH QUESTION.
	The report of the Utah Commission will be
read with interest. It discloses the results of
recent legislation looking to the presentation and
punishment of polygamy in that Territory. I
still believe that if that abominab'e practice can
be suppressed by law, It can only be by the
most radical legislation consistent with the re-
straints of the Constitution. I again recom-
mend, therefore, that Congress assume absolute
political control of the Territory of Utah and
provide for the appointment of a commission
with such governmental power as in it's judg-
ment may justly and wisely be put into their
hands.
	On Thursday, November 20th, a little party
of ladies met by invitation at the residence of
her daughter and son in-law, Brother and Sister
Henry C. James, to celebrate the anniversary
of the birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne, one
of the representative women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. The afternoon was spent in
interesting conversation, and many fervent con-
gratulations were offered to the honored lady
that she had lived so long and still retained
health and vigor, and that she had reared such a
numerous and noble family in the Church of
Jesua Christ of Latter-day Saints. The birth-
day passed off very pleasantly.
	At about six o’clock the ladies, with Brother
Horne, he being the only gentleman at the table,
sat down to a sumptuous repast, and all enjoyed
it, for there was “the feast of reason and the
flow of soul” as well as many good things pre-
pared by the lady’s charming daughters, who
are all excellent housewives.
	We missed, on that occasion, our dear Sisters
Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
who were both absent on duty, and we realized
how much more complete the party would have
been if these two sisters had been present.
Long life to SisterHorne, and may she have
many more happy returns of the day, with her
companion by her side, and in the full enjoy-
ment of all the faculties with which God has so
abundantly endowed her.
	At a special meeting of the Board of Directors
of the Deseret Hospital Association, held on
Friday, Nov. 21st at 11 o’clock a.m., in the Hos-
pital building, Dr. W. F. Anderson was appoint-
ed to the position of medical Superintendent
and unanimously elected to that position in the
institution, it having been understood before-
hand, that the matter had been laid before him
and that he was willing to accept the position.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered to Dr.
Joseph S. Richards, for the valuable services he
had rendered the hospital while attending regu-
larly as visiting physician during the past few
months, and the wish was expressed by all
present that he should continue to visit when-
ever he had the time or inclination to do so, as it
is the desire of those connected with this home
for the afflicted, to secure for it the aid and in-
fluence of the best physicians in Utah, that it
may develop, in the near future, into an institu-
tion of which the people will be justly proud.
			H. B. Clawson, President,
			E. B. Wells,Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	On Saturday, Nov. 22nd, at about eleven
o’clock, Elder Horace K. Whitney passed quiet-
ly and peacefully to his final rest. He was the


eldest son of the late Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and was born in Kirt-
land, Ohio, July 25th, 1823.
	Horses, as he was familiarly called by his re-
latives and friends, was one of those men who
never seemed to grow old, and indeed, until his
recent illness, which terminated fatally, he
looked the picture of health, and more fresh in
his complexion and buoyant in spirits than
many young men. He was a man of fine social
qualities, and was greatly beloved as well as ad-
mired by his friends, for his many superior ac-
complishments,as well as his genial, and amiable
disposition. He was strictly moral, honest and
upright, and possessed those scholarly attain-
ments that always elevate the man who uses
them judiciously.
	The writer knew him first in 1841, and from
that time until his death. He was what might
consistently be termed a brilliant conversational-
ist, when he was associated with those with
whom he felt at ease, but shrank from public
notice or criticism with a degree of sensitive-
ness which rendered him incapable of taking
the place and position his talents and ability
would have entitled him to fill with honor and
dignity.
	Horace K. and his younger brother Orson K.,
who died July 31st ult. were both pioneers.
Horace was at that time twenty-four years old,
Orson only seventeen. In early life these two
brothers were the most devoted friends and
both of them young men who gave great prom-
ise of success and usefulness in life.
	Horace Whitney was one of those men who
accepted practically the principle of celestial
marriage, and honored it in his daily life, and
his example in this particular is worthy of imi-
tation; he proved his sincerity in this sacred
order of marriage by his works, and he was de-
votedly loved by his family, and will be sincere-
ly mourned; yet the Gospel teaches us to restrain
our grief for those who have died in the faith of
the Gospel as he has done.	E.	B.	W.


GENERAL MEETING R. S. & Y. L.
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Nov. 15th, at two p.m., Coun. B. W.
Smith, presiding. After singing and prayer by
Coun. E. Howard and singing again, m nutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also
minutes of Y. L. of the 17th, 20th and 4th
Wards, and P. A. of the 14th and 21st Wards,
Coun. Smith said she wished the sisters to oc-
cupy the time in bearing their testimon es.
	Sisters E.S. Taylor was the first to speak of
the goodness of God and exhort the other sis-
ters to testify.
	Sisters Bird, Hicks, Kelly, Whitpin, Ander-
son, Hadden, Watmough, Smith, Hazen, Dyer,
M. E. Kimball, Dobson, Ann Richards and others
each bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball occupied a few moments,
said she felt like listening more than speaking,
said she thought it a good thing to refrain from
speaking evil of any one,even those we consider
our enemies; it is better to be kind and polite to
all; we want to elevate and prepare ourselves for
a higher position; alluded to the many good
qualities of the late Sister Smoot.
	Coun. E. Howard said there had been much
good instruction given, and after some other re-
marks said we want to be just and peacable no
matter what comes; never wound another's
feelings.
	Coun. Smith made a few closing remarks and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks,with sing-
ing and benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
	Regular meeting held Nov. 29th, at 2. p.m.,
President M. I. Home presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
then singing, and minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L. of
the 20th and 14th Wards, and P. A. of the 20th
and 21st Wards.
	Prest. Horne requested the secretaries in fu-
ture to take the front seats, and expressed the
pleasure she felt in meeting with the sisters
again,she had been prevented of late by sick-
ness in the family.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball spoke to the secretaries
for a few minutes in a very pleasing manner.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, in her most happy
manner, addressed the sisters; her remarks were
mostly upon the work in the Temple, the hea-
venly influence felt by all who officiated there,
and the great necessity of purity of character
to be prepared to act for the dead.
	Coun. P. Woodruff spoke of the necessity of
performing every duty and seeking the guidance
of the Holy Spirit to help us, and then our ene-
mies could not have power to harm us; but if we
are negligent in performing our duties and lose
the Spirit of God, we will find ourselves in a
very poor position.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the
secretaries, giving them good advice. Coun.
Howard regretted there were not more of the
young ladies attended the meetings and would
like to see enough of them come to sing for
the meetings.
	Prest. Horne made some very pertinent re-
marks upon the liability of all to make mistakes
and need correction; said she wished more to see
her own errors then those or others; warned the
sisters to beware of evil influences and not to
be deceived through being over zealous, but to
seek to have the Spirit of God at all times. Ad-
vised the young ladies to keep good company
and study good behavior at all times and in all
places.
	Sister Mary Freeze thought the young ladies
needed the spirit of discernment to enable them
to judge who were good and to shun those who
were evil.
	Prest. Horne gave notice that the conference
would be held on the 26th and 27th of December,
and the meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing. Benediction by Coun. Zina D. H.
Young.


ANNUAL PRIMARY MEETING.

	On the 30th of November I attended, by invi-
tation of the President, Sister Julia Howe, the
anniversary of the Primary meeting of the 17th
Ward. Many of the parents of the children
were also present, which was encouraging to
Sister Howe and her assistants. There were a
goodly number of children present, the girls
much predominating, all looking healthy and
happy. The order was excellent and the be-
havior of the children was pretty and winning.
They were very correct in answering a long list
of very important questions, and the songs and
recitations were admirably given, even by two
or three mere infants. A song by little Miss
Edna Hyde was sung and accompanied by her-
self in a sweet manner; her sister, Miss Laura
Hyde, is secretary, and though so young, filled
her office with ease and dignity, worthy of imi-
tation. I feel it must have been a proud day for
Sister Howe, for she has been indefatigable in
her labors in the Primary department, also Sis-
ter Dougall, who has been very energetic - and I
must not forget to name Miss Ella Dallas, who
is most faithful and praiseworthy in her con-
stant attendance wherever she can be an assist-
ent, or make herself useful; she is gentle, hum-
ble and ever lady-like. Such young ladies
should be appreciated by every one - and I ex-
pect they are. I felt it was a time of refreshing


to all those ladies, and that they were in a
measure sweetly repaid for all their labors.
	Among the delightful things was a "fish
pond," which created a fund of enjoyment for
all. This concluded the eventful day, and I
feel it will long be remembered by all present.
Sister Ellen Clawson, Sister Carrington and
Sister Crooheron each addressed the children in
their usual winning way, and I felt refreshed
and edified as a child of large growth.
								H. T. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF
		MRS. L. W. ELDREDGE.
	The sad news that reached our ears announc-
ing the death of Sister Lizzie Winder Eldredge,
sunk deep into the hearts of relatives and friends.
I was personally acquainted with her, lived a
near neighbor to her for six or seven years, and
admired her traits of character as a true Latter-
day Saint. In all her acts of life she showed a
thorough good training of a wife and judicious
mother. In her short life she accomplished more
than one of the ordinary class of women.
	Her whole life was devoted to her religion;
she was ever present at her meetings, her child-
ren, neatly dressed, were always with her, and
her husband at the Sunday School and Sabbath
meetings. They went hand in hand together.
With a young babe in her arms she assisted her
husband in the Sunday School, acting as teacher
and reporter.
	Present at the Relief Society she there acted
as Secretary and co-worker and an encourager
of home industry. She also took an active part
in the Primary meetings; took untiring pains to
teach her young sisters to be useful. Helped
the secretaries and teachers, and spent a great
deal of time to revise and correct minutes,in the
midst of her family cares and duties.
	In her domestic life she was economical and
prudent. Her house was ever ready to entertain
her associates in, and adorned with the work-
manship of her own hands. She was a woman
of education, and had a tact for business, in
which she asssisted her husband. She attended
to all her household duties, and has gone from a
life of usefulness to a more useful one even than
this, a higher and broader sphere of action.
Her husband has a treasure eternal there—im-
mortal ones. May he emulate her example in
the culture of his children.
	Dear husband and children,
	Short is the time of our parting;
	It is near at hand, the millenium,
	I shall come in the morn, the first resurrection.
							M.  A.  M. PRATT.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
	OF EMILY D.P. YOUNG.

	The following sketch of the life of one of our
faithful sisters, told in her own plain unvar-
nished style, will be doubly interesting to our
readers because of the graphic manner in which
she describes the most thrilling and pathetic
incidents that have ever transpired in the his-
tory of the Latter-day Saints. "We commend
and recommend it to our readers as one of the
most interesting pen pictures we have ever
read:
	I was born in the town of Painsville, Geauga
Co., Ohio, on the 28th of February, 1824; am
the third daughter of Lydia Clisbee and Ed-
ward Partridge. My parents were born in the
State of Massachusetts, and immigrated, while
young, to the State of Ohio, and there became
acquainted and married. My father was a
hatter, and by industry and perseverance had
accumulated considerable property and pro-
vided a comfortable home for his family, which
were seven in number when we moved from
that place. Although I was quite young when
we left Ohio (being about seven years old), I
remember a very pleasant home, such as I
have not had since.
	In the fall of 1830 four men came to my fa-
ther’s house having the Book of Mormon; they
claimed to have the Gospel which had bpen re-
stored again in the last days. Father told
them he thought they were imposters; when El-
der Cowdery, who was one of the four men(the
others were P. P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer and
Ziba Peterson), said he was thankful that there
was a God in heaven who knew the hearts of
all men.
	What they said must have made considerable
impression upon father’s mind, for as soon as
they were gone he sent right away after them
and bought a Book of Mormon. My mother
believed more readily and was baptized by Par-
ley P. Pratt. Father concluded to take a trip
to New York and see the Prophet for himsself
The following is what Brother Joseph says of
him in his history:
	“It was in Dec., 1830, that Elder Sidney
Rigdon, a sketch of whose history I have before
mentioned, came to enquire of the Lord, and
with him came that man (of whom I will here-
after speak more fully), named Edward Part-
ridge; he was a pattern of piety, and one of the
Lord’s great men, known by his steadfastness
and patient endurance to the end.”
	The Prophet baptized him in the Seneca
Lake on the 11th of Dec., 1830. He then
went to visit his relatives who resided in Pitts-
field, Mass., anxious that they should hear the
joyful tidings that so filled his heart with glad-
ness. He thought they had only to hear to be-
lieve, but oh, how disappointed he was when
they not only rejected his message, but him
also. They said he was crazy, and one of his
sisters, Mrs. Emily Dow, ordered him outof
her house and said she never wanted to see him
again. The shameful treatment of his friends
was so unexpected and uncalled for that it
weighed heavily upon his mind, but served to
strengthen him in the faith of the religion he
had espoused.
	What a bitter spirit lays hold of the unbe-
liever as soon as the truth is presented to them;
and those who profess the most religion are the
most uncharitable. When father returned to
New York, his parents sent his youngest broth-
er, James Harvey Partridge, to accompany
him, they thinking him deranged and not capa-
ble of taking care of himself. But this broth-
er, after he arrived in Painsville, received the
Gospel and was baptized. From New York to
his home father traveled in company with the
Prophet, who was moving his family to Kirt-
land, which place had been appointed for the
gathering of the Saints. Father arrived home
in the early part of Feb., 1831.		
	After his return, his old and most intimate
friends who had been anxious for him to go and
find out the truth of the reports about the
Book of Mormon because of their confidence
in his honesty and superior judgment, pro-
nounced him crazy, as his relatives had done
before when he declared to them that Mormon-
ism was true.
	The Saints began to gather to Kirtland from
all parts of the country where the Gospel had
been preached; and as we lived about three
miles from the boat landing, our house made a
good stopping place for the Saints, and we had
more or less of them stopping there from that
time on while we remained in Ohio. After my
parents had joined the Church they were
seized with the spirit of gathering, as every
body is as soon as they are baptized. They
bought a place in Kirtland, but they never
had the privilege of living there. Father was
called by revelation and ordained a Bishop on
the 4th of Feb., 1831. In July following he
was chosen, with several other brethren, to ac-
company Brother Joseph on his journey to the
land of Missouri. They reached Indepen-
dence, Jackson Co., about the middle of July.
Mother felt that her trials had commenced
when father was called to leave her at that
time. Her children were just recovering from
the measles, which disease had been brought
there by some of the Saints who were journey-
ing to Kirtland, and her eldest child was very
sick with the lung fever. It was a new thing
for her to be left alone in the hour of trouble,
or to have any responsibility outside of her
family or household affairs. But she was one
of the “staunch and true,” and knew it would
not do to put the “hand to the plow” and then
turn back. She could acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in her afflictions as well as her
blessings.
	After the brethren had located Zion and
transacted other necessary business, the most of
them returned to Kirtland, leaving my father
in the land of Zion, as he had been appointed
by revelation to labor in that place, take up
his residence there and send for his family. I
think it was something of a trial for him to be
left there, he wrote to motherexpressing great
anxiety about her and the children. It seemed
to him a very great undertaking tor mother to
breakup her home and prepare for such a jour-
ney without her husband to advise and make
the necessary arrangements for her. In those
days the Saints were inexperienced in such
things; and I think if father could have looked
forward into the future and beheld what his
family would have to pass through for the Gos-
pel’s sake, he would have been still more anx-
ious about them. But the Lord in mercy with-
holds the future from our gaze, or that portion
that would cause us unhappiness, and gives us
strength to bear the reality when it comes, even
that which we could pot bear in anticipation.
Father felt that he had a very great responsi-
bility resting upon him,and his own words that
he.wrote from Independence on the 5th of Au-
gust, 1831, to mother, who was still living in
Painsville, will better express his feelings than
any language of mine could possibly do. He
says:
	“I have a great desire to return to Painsville
this fall, but must not; you know I stand in an
important station; and as I am occasionally
chastened, I sometimes feel ss though I must
fall, not to give up the cause, but fear my sta-
tion is above what I can perform to the accept-
ance of my Heavenly Father.”-------
	Father’s business was left in the hands of his
agent, and his property, what was sold at all,
was sold at a very great sacrifice. His course
in joining the Mormon Church and sacrificing
his property, caused his friends in that place to
marvel, arid their verdict was as that of his
other friends had been before, that he was in-
sane.
	They could not see what there was in relig-
ion to make a man give up all worldly consid-
erations for it, and that is still a mystery to the
world.  And we cannot wonder at it when we-
consider how little they have in their belief to
create hope orexchange their bodily comfort
for. But ours is different; it is everything.
There is nothing too dear to sacrifice for the
hope that our religion gives us. One of my
uncles wrote, to father as follows: “You say the
world with all its pomp and show looks very
small in youreyes; I have every reason to be-
lieve it, from the manner of disposing of your
property, particularly your farm, which I learn
you have received a fifteen year-old horse for.”
It was in the fall if 1831, or the spring of
'32, that mother started with her family for
Jackson Co., Missouri, in a company of Saints
undor the direction of W  W. Phelps and A-
S. Gilbert. Mother must have had a great deal
to try her on this journey that we, as children,


[Column 1]
﻿knew nothing about. We went in a keel boat
as far as Cincinnati, then we took a steamboat
up the Missouri river.
	Once when the boat stopped at a landing, a
young woman belonging to our company fell
from the plank into the river, but was soon
rescued by the sailors. I think her name was
Electa Chamberlain. When we were within
about one hundred miles of our destination we
met the ice coming down the river so fast that
we could not proceed and we were obliged to
land at a place called Arrow Rock; a family 
of negroes let mother and Sister Morley have
one room in their log cabin; Brother Morley
was with father in Missouri, and his family
was traveling in the same company that we 
were. There was no window in the room, a
common thing in that country; the people gen-
erally receiviug their light through the open
door. But we had a large fireplace, and with
a good fire we could be quite comfortable. Both
families together numbered about fourteen per-
sons. We remained here several days,it being
cold weather most of the time. I do not know
what had become of the rest of the company,
but as far as I can remember, we were alone.
	As soon as circumstances would permit, Sis-
ter Morley and mother procured a Kentucky
wagon and the two families, with their effects,
were stowed into it, and we again started for
Independence. The weather was very cold—
so cold that we had to stop and lay by again
one day, and that day father and Brother
Morley met us and we were more than glad to
see them, for our journey thus far had not
been very pleasant. But what suffering and
privations my mother had to endure she never
complained or murmured, but rejoiced that she
was counted worthy to endure tribulations for
the Gospel sake. She felt that she had enlist-
ed in a good cause, and looked forward to the
happy time that had been promised to the
faithful Saints; and her religion compensated
her for all the hardships she had to endure.
And Aunt Lucy Morley,as we used to call her,
was one of the most patient women I ever
knew. She was truly a choice woman. Well,
after one day’s rest we boarded our Kentucky
wagon and continued our journey towards In-
dependence.
	When we arrived at our destination we were
so jammed and packed in the wagon by the
load slipping that we could hardly pull our-
selves out. I remember that when I made an
effort to get out I could not until some of the
load was removed.
	Father had rented a log room of a Mr.
Boggs, I think it was the same that was after-
wards Governor of Missouri; so we had a place
to go to and were glad to get to the end of our
journey and be again at home. Although we
did not have much of, a house to live in, we
knew this was Zion and would be our future
home. I can well imagine the feelings of our
parents when they first set their feet upon that
land; the rejoicing of their hearts as they
bowed in thankfulness before the Lord for His
mercies in bringing them to that holy place,
where the Zion of our God was to be built in
the last days.
	Father being Bishop he had the poor to
look after and provide for their wants. Houses
to rent being scarce and money and means
more so, it seemed necessary that father should
take a widow and four children into the one
room where we were living to pass the winter.
Now don’t think that we were crowded or that
the children quarreled, perhaps they did,
though I don’t remember. As soon as father
could build, he moved his family into his own
house.
	About the first thing the Saints did after
providing shelter for their families, was to start
a school for their children. The first school I
remember attending was in a log cabin  Jack-
son Co. The school was taught by Miss Nancy

[Column 2]
Carl, a young woman belonging to our Church.
Our house was near the Temple lot, about half
a mile from the public square in Independence.
Indians and negroes were plentiful in this west-
ern country, and everything was so diffferent
from what we were used to seeing. The people
were different in their customs and manner of
speaking. It was, “I reckon,” and “a right
smart chance,” and instead of carrying things
in their hands they would “toat” them on their
heads. Large bundles and baskets, churns,
tubs and piggins of water or milk, all “toated”
on their heads. Little children were "toated”
straddle of one hip. In warm weather wom-
en went barefoot, and little boys from two to
ten years old were running the streets with no-
thing on but a tow shirt. Everything seemed
to be after the backwoods style. The brethren
began to build houses and gather around them
the comforts of life. In building houses they
would have “raisings,” after the logs were pre-
pared the brethren would all turn out and lay
them up.
	We read in the Prophet Joseph’s history of
one in Kaw township, where he helped the
Coleville Branch raise their first house; the logs
being carried by twelve men in honor of the
twelve tribes of Israel. Some of the houses
were very neat, the logs being hewn on both
sides and the corners sawed smooth, and for a
log house they looked quite respectable. I had
now got to be eight years old and was bap-
tized in a large creek not far from Indepen-
dence by Elder John Corrill.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEVIER STAKE PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 25th and 26th of September the Pri-
mary Association of this Stake held their an-
nual fair at Glenwood, and many beautiful and
useful articles were exhibited. The following
are among the most notable:
	The most ingenious article exhibited was a
complete saw mill, made by Lewis Baker, aged
13, of the first ward of Richfield, which did
good work, making lumber out of corn cobs.
Great credit is certainly due this young boy
when we consider he had never seen a sawmill,
this one being entirely his own invention. John
Jackson of Glenwood, aged 12 years, showed a
very nice cradle and chair, the workmanship
of his own hands, sawing the lumber from a
rough log. There was a fine display of minia-,
ture furniture: bedsteads cupboards, whatnots,
clothes-horses, etc., too numerous to mention.
There were wagons, wheel-barrows, rakes, and
other implements made by boys from six to
ten years. A very fine display of dressmaking
from the first and second wards of Richfield.
The millinery department was sparsely repre-
sented, one lady’s hat made and trimmed by
Ellen Oberg of Richfield, first ward. Crochet
work was well represented by Monroe and Red-
mond wards particularly. A fine display of
quilts, noticeably two from Richfield, and a
bedspread made by the Annabella Association;
a great variety of knitting and crochet in wool,
also of fancy needlework, and any amount of
plain sewing, which was done very creditably;
a good showing of very pretty rugs, some
handsome ornaments made of shells and straw,
a cross of moss and pebbles, the latter article
being the only one from Vermillion. The
cakes, pies, tarts, jellies, preserves and pickles
looked very inviting, also a good display of
fruits and vegetables.
	The afternoons of each day were taken up
with songs, recitations, and dancing by the lit-
tle ones. The partaking of cakes and lemonade
was enjoyed extremely by the children.
	Prest.A. K. Thurber honored the occasion
with a short address on the afternoon of the
first day, The Stake Prest., Sister Luey Hep
plar, did her utmost to make the fair a success.


and used every endeavor to have the little ones
enjoy themselves. Her labors are indefatigable
in stimulating the Primary of this Stake to ex-
cel in all good works.
					Celia E. Bean
Richfield.


VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.
	Sunday morning, Nov. 2nd, Mrs. M. I
Horne, H.M. Whitney, M. A. Freeze and E.
R. Shipp, M. D., took train for Sandy, where
they were met by carriages, which conveyed
them to South Jordan Ward, being most hos-
pitably greeted and entertained by the good
sisters. At 1:30 p.m. they met with the Relief
Society; the hall was well filled by both breth-
ren and sisters. After the usual preliminaries
remarks were made by each of the above
named sisters, also by the Bishop of the Ward
and Sister Holt of this organization. At the
close of this meeting Sister Horne returned
home, it being necessary on account of sick-
ness.
 In the evening Mrs. M. A. Freeze and E. R.
Shipp attended a meeting of the young people,
and after listening to a most excellent pro-
gramme by the young gentlemen, each ad-
dressed the meeting for a short time, when
young Bro. Gardner gave a most interesting
account of his mission to the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	On Monday, the 3rd., the ladies from Salt
Lake, together with a number from South Jor-
dan Ward, were conveyed to Fort Herriman,
a distance of eight miles, over rather a barren
region of country, though the ride was far from
uninteresting.
	On our arrival we found the Bishop await-
ing us at the meeting house door, and in the
space of a very few minutes the house was well
filled; the occasion being the organization of
the children, a large number being pressnt,
who were very conspicuous for their good order
throughout the entire proceedings. Sister Tem-
pest was chosen as President, with other offi-
cers well qualified to fill, their different posi-
tions.
	The meeting was addressed by Sister H. M.
Whitney, who spoke eloquently and at some
length on the doctrine of plural marriage.
Sister M. A. Freeze, who gave good instruction
to the children, and also to parents; Dr. E. R. 
Shipp also made some remarks, followed by
the Bishop and some of the local sisters.
	After dinner at the Bishop’s we were kindly
accompanied by Sisters Holt and BeckStead to
Sandy Station, where we took the train for
home, again, feeling that we had made the ac-
quaintance of some of God’s best people and
that we were blessed in our endeavors to bless
others.					E.R. SHIPP


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"New Hampshire has voted against against a consti-
tutional convention."
	"Among the improvements contemplated for
the New England Hospital for Women and
Children, on Codman Avenue, are a second
maternity home and a home for the nurses.”

“The youngest daughter of the Emperor of
Austria, the Princess Valerie, has added to the
list of royal authors by writing a comedy, which
was acted at the Imperial Theatre of Vienna
this week, and herself performed the part of the
heroine.”

 “Madame Johanna Spyri is said to be the
best living German writer for children. Miss
Lucy Wheelock of Chauncy School has trans-
lated, and Lothrop & Co. have published a
series of her most charming tales, under the
title of "Red Letter Stories."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISSIONARY THOUGHTS.

O Utah! how we love you!
Inspiration forbids us stay:
So we are on the billowy ocean,
To New Zealand far away.

There are six of us in number,
Sent forth by God's command
To preach the truth of the Gospel
In that far distant land.

We have left our wives and families,
Those dear loved ones at home,
To travel in the vineyard–
For those the seeds are sown,

While riding on the great ship,
The "City of Sydney" by name,
We have faith in our Father, God;
In His mercies and His fame.

And as a part of Israel
We feel to do His will,
Help to roll the stone along,
And thus His plans fulfil.

As Daniel and the Prophets
Predicted it should be,
So gather scattered Israel
In Zion to be free.
		EDWIN L. DAVIES.
October 23, 1884.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR EXPONENT;

	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved and respected friend, Sister Lizzie Eldredge, wife
of Joshua Eldredge, who departed this life November
11th, 1884.

	She was born in Salt Lake City, July 2nd, 1856, where
she was reared by her tender parents, John R. and E

llen
Winder, who taught her the principles of life and salva-
tion from her earliest childhood, the impressions o
which have never for one moment been darkened by
doubt. Her life, which to us seems but brief, has been
spent in usefulness; she has labored in the Sunday
School as Secretary since its first organization in 1877.
also in the Relief Society as Secretary since 1875, and
has been engaged in the training of the young in the
Primary Association for the past five years, where she
will, at the present, be greatly missed. Many hours of
her life were spent in visiting the aged and sick cheer-
ing them with her lively voice and helping them with
her willing hands.

	Her earnest desire was to understand the principles of
her religion and to live them, and at no time was she
heard to raise her voice in objection to one. Her teach-
ings and wise counsels will be long remembered by the
little ones of this place, and many will remember the
acts of kindness she has bestowed upon them at differ-
ent times.
	During the hours of her sickness she was tenderly
cared for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her
every possible assistance; but, God, in His inscrutable
purposes, has a greater work for her behind the veil,
where she has gone to prepare the way for those she
leaves here.

	The funeral services were held at the meeting house
on Tuesday at 11:30, being the largest assembly of this
kind in this place; The remains of the departed were
carried by six of the brethren, followed by her family,
mother, brother, sister, relatives and friends. Remarks
of consolation were offered by Bishops Nebckar, Calder,
Kimball and Moroni Pratt, after which the procession
moved to the burying grounds, where, with dedicatory
prayer, the remains of our sister were consigned to their
last resting place, there to await the resurrection of the
just.

Deceased had been married ten years the 5th of last
Oct., and is the mother of six children, three of whom
are dead; she now leaves a husband, three little ones,
her fond parents, brothers and Bisters, besides a large
circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. And
while we condole with our friends In this their hour of
bereavement, we would say, Be comforted, for through
the glorious principles of the Gospel we hope to meet,
our sister in the morning of the first resurrection with,
her three little ones who are with her in heaven. An ex-
ample she has left on earth for us to follow, and may


we ever strive to live as useful a life as our departed
sister, and inherit the same glory in the kingdom of our
God. 
Rest in peace, dear Sister Eldredge,
	For thy work on earth is done;
You have finished here your mission,
	And a crown of glory won.
	
You have gone your work to finish
	In the realms of heaven above,
And we hope some day to meet you
	There where all is joy and love,

Your kind teachings we'll remember,
	Strive to walk the narrow way,
Then we'll be prepared to meet you
	In the resurrection day.
	LIZZIE LAKER.
Meadowville, Nov. 19, 1884.


IN MEMORIAM.

	On Sunday morning, at seven o’clock, Nov. 16, 1884,
after two days’ illness, of membranous croup, Lewis
Burnham, son of James P. and Mary A. Freeze passed
quietly to his welcome rest, aged five years, five months
and seven days.
	“Little Lou” was an unusually bright, beautiful and
gifted child, around whom the fondest hopes and expec-
tations were centred; he had suffered much from lung
complaint the past three years, during which time he
had received in vision glimpses of a better and brighter
life, which seemed to have robbed him of the desire to.
remain in this; and he said he wanted to die and be an
angel. His loss makes a deep void in hearts which,
though resigned to say “Thy will, not mine,” can never
be filled till the resurrection morn gives back its jewels
—but
“We shall shortly know that lengthened breath
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend;
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest bloom His love can send.
And we shall see that while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for yon and me;
How, when we called he heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end can see."	L


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Harrisville, Weber Ce., Oct. 25, 1884, Maria,
beloved wife of Neils P. Lee, born January 6, 1847, in
Denmark; baptized by Elder S. Sorenson June 3rd.,
1866; immigrated to Utah 1867, and entered into the
celestial order of marriage May, 1868.  She leaves a hus-
band, seven children, and a host of friends to mourn
her loss.  She was an affectionate wife, a kind and ten-
der mother, a very true and earnest Latter-day Saint,
and a faithful member of the Relief Society, always
ready to sacrifice her own comfort to relieve others.
	The funeral services were held at the schoolhouse,
where apropriate remarks were made by the Bishop
and other brethren, aided by the Spirit of God, comfort-
ing the bereaved family.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Maria
Lee by the Relief Society of West Harrisville:
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister,
we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy member
of the Relief Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate 
mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records and a copy of the same be presented to the be-
reaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation.	MARY HEGSTED, President,
	CHRISTINA HEGSTED, Sec.


﻿“The Boston Art Club have decided to give
$2,000 in prizes at current exhibition; $350 for
the best picture by a Massachusetts artist, and
the same for the best by an American artist;
three prizes of $150 each for the three next
best works, and five of $70 each for other meri-
torious pictures, all by native artists. The
balance will form a fund toward the donations
of prizes for next year."


﻿“Women are formed for attachment. Their
gratitude is unimpeachable. Their love is an
unceasing fountain of delight to the man who
has once attained it and knows how to deserve
it. But that very keenness of sensibility
which, if well cultivated, would prove the
source of a man’s highest enjoyment may grow
to bitterness and wormwood if he fails to attend
to it or abuses it.


For Sale at this Office.
 BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,  25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.  "
POEMS, by E.R. Snow,Vol. 1,  $1.00 "
" Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50 "

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND  JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than and house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1884	No. 14


[Column 1]
THE CHRISTMAS GIFT.

The Christmas had come and was over,
And ev'ry one, great and small,
Had rejoiced in that full, glad household
From morn till the twilight fall.
And the children had said in the evening
"There wasn't another thing
To fill up their measure of gladness
Old Santa himself could bring."

So, in the sweetest of "good night" kisses,
Just after the prayers were said,
They laid aside ever treasure
And hastened away to bed;
And soon every light-hearted darling
Was so far away in dreams,
They never came back till the sunshine
Wakened them all with his beams.

And while still dimly recalling
The joys of the day before,
Auntie came in with the tidings
Of one precious treasure more.
"Now rise and come quickly to welcome
the Sweet one that's waiting here,
For rarest and best of all presents,
This new little brother dear."

They whispered a moment together,
When Auntie had shut the door,
Framing a grave "resolution"
Against the glad tidings she bore.
Then they hurriedly dressed, and the whispers,
Grave winks and shakes of the head—
That not even cook could interpret—
Or gather a word that they said—

With three year old Johnnie between them,
Each holding his dimpled hand,
And he looking wisely in league with
What he could not understand,
They started, paused, whispered, proceeded,
Then Mabel herself made bold
To knock at the door, which nurse opened,
Strange enough sight to behold.

Fresh, tidy and sweet, not a smile, though,
Illuminated either dear one's cheek;
But all frowned straight at Auntie,
Waiting for Mabel to speak;
And, hand in hand, all three together,
Set nurse's head in a whirl;
"We're not going to kiss the baby,
Because it isn't a girl!"

And then, while the embassy waited,
Grandma to the rescue came,
To treat with the stern deputation
The message they had proclaimed.
"What! not when the dear little baby
Was sent to us Christmas night,
On the birthday of our dear Savior,
To meet with so cruel a slight?"

Then over the sweet little faces
A wav'ring expression came;
As their glances met, there followed
The rose red color of shame.
"I guess," said the little Mabel, then,
"I guess it wouldn't be right,
For it might be His little brother
That was sent to us last night.

"And oh!  just to think, his birthday's
The happiest day of all!
But he came too late for us to hang
His stocking upon the wall."
"And who'll divide," said grandma, "With
The baby Santa Claus missed,
That came in the stormy night, and then
Was not to be even kissed?"

Then swift to be first to answer her,
Each repentant darling rushed
And shouted, "I;" and they clasped her so
Her ribbons and kerchief were crushed.

[Column 2]
Ah, sweetest of stories that e'er were told!
"The Babe of Bethlehem" lives
And lights in ev'ry heart, the love
That pities and shields and forgives.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
December, 1884.


CHRISTMAS	DAY.

	THE ANTHEM.

	"There were shepherds, abiding in the fields
keeping watch over their flocks by night, and 
lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and
the glory of the Lord shone round about
them, and they were sore afraid. And the
angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I
bring you good tidings of great joy, which
shall be to all people. For unto you is born
this day in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord; and suddenly there was
with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God add saying, Glory to God in
the Highest, and on earth peace, good will
towards men.”	
	I could not sleep last night; I lay awake long
after the clock “talked small”—of course at
such times the brain has its own panoramic
rambles. Thought was busy with me; one
thought seemed at last to engross the rest—
Christmas! That day of days, and its time of
times, when all Europe, all Christendom cele-
brates it, both in its religious services and in its
joyous festivities. In the Church of England,
my mother church, I must ever remember its
morning service with love and veneration; the
church bedecked in holly and ivy-green, and
its altar table spread with the holy emblems of
the holiest rite any church can observe, covered
with its pure white drapery, et cetera—but my
mind reverted to Christmas day morning ser-
vice in King’s chapel, Cambridge.  I seemed
again within its sublime precincts, which alone
are sufficient to inspire the more devotional
feelings.  Let me describe it—its peculiar
architecture has rendered it as such—the most
renowned building in the world, having one
solid arch throughout without any pillars to-
support it, the ceiling seems drawn together in
compartments by keystones, each weighing one
ton; the entrance is into the ante-chapel, plain
and unadorned, which is divided from the inner
chapel by a superb screen of elaborately
carved oak, embodying historical subjects.
	Through a noble arch in the screen, hung
with heavy crimson silk curtains, the visitor
passes into a scene that at once rivets every
sense and faculty possessed. It is a never-to-
be-forgotten place of worship to the Great
Architect of the Universe.
	I cau but give a faint description.  A tes-
sellated floor; it is surrounded by oaken“stalls,”
elaborately carved, with a reading desk each
side of the entrance; a highly ornamented
stand’for the choristers of the chapel, and the
end of the building is taken up by the altar,
over which is a sublime painting by Rubens
life-size, “Taking down from the cross,”—the
Three Marys; the Beloved Disciple, the cen-
turion, are prominent, figures, but there are
many others—all these make the subject of the
painting.
	The upper part of the chapel is surrounded
fly the magnificent windows of stained glass—
containing the entire life history of the Savior,
from His cradle to His cross—all is elaborate-

[Column 2]
ly and graphically depicted; and when the sun
is shining upon them the effect is marvelously
sublime. This chapel is exclusively for the Fel-
lows and Collegians of King's college, but on
grand days, such as Christmas andEaster,a few
visiters are admitted to the organ gallery by
tickets, the organ being placed in the centre of
the screen.
	All this, like dissolving views, passed
through my waking thoughts; memory was in
full session with its marvelous agency.  Again
I was in that organ gallery on Christmas day
morning.  I remember the soft prelude of the
fine organ, and its accomplished organist, and
then a young chorister in his white surplice
arose and advanced to the front of the orches
tral stand; and once again I seemed to hear
that boy’s rich; silvery voice break forth in the
solo of the thrilling anthem, “There were shep-
herds, et cetera,” that I have placed at the
commencement of my piece.  The solo is
somewhat lengthy, but oh, so beautiful! and
then the whole chapter of gentlemen, choristers
in white surplices join their harmonious voices
in one united volume, “Glory to God. Glory
to God in the Highest.  On earth peace good
will towards men.”
	When I arose in the dawn of the day—all
ha d faded, but I was so impressed with the
beautiful reminiscence that I thought I would
make a pen picture that never-to-be-forgot-
ten scene, which I shall carry with me“beyond
the gates.”

	Then came the festivities of Christmas; all
hearts-seem attuned for enjoyment in their
own especial way, children, sons and daughters
being separated by their avocations, again re-
turn home to spend Christmas; it is ever a time
of reunion for all “sorts and conditions of men
and women."  Girls and boys return from
school for Xmas holidays—all is joy and re-
joicing; the holly and the ivy decorate the
rooms, and the ballroom was not complete with-
out its renowned mistletoe of Druidical honors,
and every ball was drawn to its close by that
dear old-fashioned dance of Sir Roger de Cov-
erly, which when danced truthfully is elegant
in its formal quaintness.
	And then the bells! oh, those tale-telling
bells! What tongues they had for many a
heart and brain!  What volumes they told us
as they “rang in” Christmas day morning, and
rang the old year out and the new year in.
Are we so advanced in this boasted 19th cen-
tury that we have lost the heart-chords and
the brain-wires of ourearly days?  For myself
I can answer, happiness once given is a joy for-
ever, and ’tis written where every coming sea-
son “I turn the leaf to read it.” And as an
accompaniment, my heart and voice chant
forth: “Glory to God in the Highest.”
	HANNAH T. KING.
Dec. 5th, ’84.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

     I think it was in 1832 that the citizens of
Jackson County began to show dissatisfaction
and make some threats in regard to the Mor-
mons, but made no demonstration of wicked-
ness until 1833, when they began to gather in
small parties and commit depredations by night


[Column 1]
[-]y breaking windows and shooting into the
houses of the Saints, and sometimes using
abusive language to our people. I remember
the mob set fire to a large haystack belonging
to father; it was but a short distance from our
house, and it made a tremendous blaze. In this
manner the mob kept annoying the Saints.
They were often holding meetings and forming
resolutions to drive or destroy the Mormons,
and as they said in one of their preambles,
"Peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must."
There was considerable excitement at times,
the Saints not knowing what the mob might be
led to do.
	The brethren in the vicinity where we lived
would gather with their guns, at night, into the
lower room of our house, that they might be
ready for any emergency. Sometimes the wo-
men would come and spend the night with
mother, being afraid to remain at home, be-
cause of the threats of the mob. The women
and children occupied the room upstairs, while
the men stood guard below. Twice guns went
off accidentally; once the ball went up through
the floor and through the head of the bed, but
as the family had not retired, nobody was hurt.
I remember hearing the brethren pray all to-
gether; not as one man, but as many. They
did not then understand the order of prayer
as we do now.
	Children had heard so much about the mob
that the very word was a perfect terror to them.
They would often cry out in their sleep, "The
mob is coming! the mob is coming!"
	When mother's youngest child was about
three weeks old she sent me, with my sister
Harriet, to the spring, a short distance from 
the house, when we looked back and saw about
fifty of the mob surrounding the house. We
stood and looked at them until they rode away,
then we went up to the house again. The mob
had taken father with them. George Simpson
and another of the mob entered the house and
took father by the arm and led him away, he
making no resistance. I think he was expect-
ing something of the kind, as they had made a
good many threats.
	They took him to Independence Square, but
we did not know what they were going to do
with him; it might be kill him; as they had so
often threatened to do. After they had been
gone a while, I stood at the window looking in
the direction they had gone, wondering what
the mob were doing with father, for we could
hear their yells and shouts, when I saw two
men coming toward the house. One I knew—
a young man by the name of Albert Jack-
son—he was carrying in his hand a hat, coat
and vest. The other I thought was an Indian,
and as they seemed to be coming right to the
house I was frightened and ran upstairs; but
when they came in it was our dear father, who had
been tarred and feathered, which gave him the
appearance of an Indian. The mob had done
their work well, for he was covered from head
to foot. I suppose there were hundreds, and
perhaps thousands, who witnessed the outrage.
One woman who witnessed the scene said there
was a bright light encircled father's head while
he was being tarred and feathered. The same
day, I think, Gilbert's store was broken open,
and the goods scattered in the streets. The
printing office was also demolished, and the
press type and papers scattered over the
ground. Bro. Phelps family lived in a part
of the building; they were turned out of doors
and their furniture broken and things scattered 
in the yard.
	While the destruction of the printing office
was going on two young girls, nieces of Elder
Gilbert, had run out of the house and hid in
the corner of the fence, and were watching the
mob in their operations, when they saw them
bring out a table piled with papers, and heard
them say, "Here are the revelations of the
d—d Mormons," They watched their op-

[Column 2]
portunity, when the mob returned to the house,
then they ran and gathered up as many of the
papers as they could hold in their arms and
ran into a cornfield and hid. The mob dis-
covered them running with the papers and fol-
lowed them, but could not ffind them. The
cornfields in Missouri are very large, and the
cornstalks grow so high that they are almost
like young forests, and it is an easy matter for
a person to get lost in one of them. These two
girls had to fund so far that they were lost; but
after a while they succeeded in finding their
way out. They went to an old shanty, where
they found the family of Bro. Phelps trying
to make themselves as comfortable as they
could in their new quarters. Sister Phelps
took the revelations and hid them in her bed,
and this is how some of the revelations were
preserved. The names of these girls were
Mary E. and Caroline Rollins. I remember
many of the circumstances that transpired at
that time, but was too young then to be able to
remeber the particulars well enough to tell
them; consequently I will take some extracts
from the Prophet Joseph's History, as that
gives the situation of things at that time bet-
ter than I can do it.
	He says: "On the 20th of July the mob
collected and demanded the discontinuance of
the printing in Jackson Co., a closing of the
store, and a cessation of all mechanical labors.
The brethren refused compliance, and the con-
sequence was that the house of W. W. Phelps,
which contained the printing establishment,
was thrown down, the materials taken posses-
sion of by the mob, many papers destroyed,and
the family and furniture thrown out of doors.
They then proceeded to violence towards Ed-
ward Partridge, the Bishop of the Church, as
he relates in his autobiography: I was taken
from my house by a mob—George Simpson be-
ing their leader—who escorted me about half
a mile to the court house on the public square
in Independence, and then and there, a few
rods from said court house, surrounded by hun-
dreds of the mob, I was stripped of my hat,
coat and vest, and daubed with tar from head
to foot and then a quantity of feathers put up-
on me; and all this because I would not agree
to leave the country, my home, where I had
lived two years. Before tarring and feathering
me I was permitted to speak. I told them that
the Saints had had to suffer persecution in all
ages of the world, that I had done nothing
which ought to offend any one; that if they
abused me they would abuse an innocent person;
that I was willing to suffer for the sake of
Christ, but to leave the country I was not then
willing to consent to.
	"But this time the multitude made so much
noise that I could not be heard. Some were
cursing and swearing, saying, call upon your
Jesus, etc., others were equally noisy in trying
to still the rest that they might be enabled to
hear what I was saying.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON WOMEN.

	I could wish my pen were inspired that I
could write half that is in my heart upon this
subject.
	Many ladies of the world talk of the degra-
dation of Mormon women; but we Mormon
women know better. We know of their purity,
truth, virtue and chastity, having lived with
them over forty years—summered and win-
tered with them all these years, and know the
love, affection and peace in their households.
The writer of this has also lived in the world,
and knows that there is more real happiness
in any real Mormon family (because we know
what constitutes real happiness; we know they
have the love of God shed abroad in their
hearts), than those of our civilized neighbors
of the outside world.


The writer of this is not living with a hus-
band; is not married to her son or grandson; is
not coerced into saying or doing what she does
not wish to. But why measure words with
those  love and make a lie? Is not God
our friend, and will He not come out of His
hiding place in His own due time in our de-
fense?
	The Lord said in answer to the Prophet
Joseph, who was pleading to know how long
His hand should be stayed, or His pure eye be-
hold from heaven the wrongs of His people:
"If thou endure thine adversity and thine
affliction well, God shall exalt thee on high
and thou shalt triumph over all thy foes." How
glorious to have God for our friend, and have
we not proven every day of our lives that He
is our friend? That He hears our prayers and
blesses us, gives us comfort and joy and peace
that the world knoweth not of? Where then,
will be those who love and make a lie, when
Christ shall come with ten thousand of His
Saints, when He shall come to make up His
jewels? God our Father has also said in one
of His revelations: "Cursed are all those who
lift up their heel against mine anointed, saith
the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they
have not sinned, saith the Lord, but have done
that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I
have commanded them."
	My sisters, let  us rejoice that we are per-
mitted to be numbered with those who have
their names cast out as evil for righteousness
sake. Know that if we are faithful we shall
be exalted on high and be crowned in the pres-
ence of God our Heavenly Father.
	AUNT HANNAH.


MISCELLANEOUS

	God's mercy is a holy mercy, which knows
how to pardon sin, not to protect it; it is a
sanctuary for the penitent, not for the presump-
tuous. —Bishop Reynolds.
	"Every day a little knowledge: one fact in a 
day. How small a thing is one fact—only one!
Ten years pass by. Three thousand six hun-
dred and fifty facts are not a small thing."
	"The conditions of success are these: First,
work; second, concentration; third, fitness. La-
bor is the genius which changes the ugliness of
the world into beauty; that turns the greatest
curse into a blessing."
	I used to wonder why people should be so
fond of the company of their physician, till I 
recollected that he is the only person with
whom one dares talk continually of one's self,
without interruption, contradiction, or censure.
—Hannah Moore.
	"The tenacity of impressions received in
childhood is a factor that should be held most
important in every scheme of early education.
Some of the sweetest associations with nature
date back from that period, and we may often
trace their quaint ring in the matured poetry
of men or women."
	As "unfinished business" in legislation is
one of the elements of confusion, so is it  in the 
individual conduct. It becomes a "standing
head" in every day's report. It is acumula-
tive evil, and while it calls the daily life, con-
fuses the daily thought, and mocks our good
purpose, it closes many a life with the unsatis-
factory epitaph "unfinished."
	"In most German States foresters are trained
for the due conservation and regulation of the
public and private wooded areas, and colleges
for this purpose are established in Scandinavia,
Russia, France, and in the United States, which
is now so earnestly looking to the cultivation
of arboricultural science as one of the future
sources of national wealth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DEAD YEAR

Dead, dead, old Year, are all thy happy days,
The flow’rs of Spring that gemmed thy pleasaht ways;
The birds that sang on many a clustered bough
In chorus sweet are hushed in silence now;	
	The year is dead;
The fruit is gathered in, the leaves are fled.

Oh, tell us,&nbsp;vanished joys, what way ye went— 
Ye moonlit evening hours, from Eden lent,
Ye fragrant morns half girt with silver mist,
With clouds of crimson, rose, and amethyst !
	Where are ye now,
Ye dreams that Time’s stern teachings disallow?	
Where are ye? For to-night strange ghosts do rise
And vex my loneliness with eager eyes,
With sweet pale faces, fair and full of light.
Ah, how they throng around my hearth to-night,
	And whisper low
In tones that death has silenced long ago !

Nor these alone; for there are deeper eyes,
With glances keen as stars in winter skies
In the last moments of the passing year
The guardian angel of our souls comes near,
	And, good or ill,
Of every life makes a faithful record still.

Look back, my heart, through all the crowded days—
Their acted falsehoods and uneven ways,
Their ceaseless care and strivings after naught—
Nor wonder at the change the years have wrought,
	Nor think good fruit
Can ever grow on folly’s bramble shoot.

O winds, the softest dirges ye can sing
To this unquiet&nbsp;soul no peace can bring,
No healing balm ! With our own hands we twine
The shackles ’neath whose weight we most repine.
	Through this new year
God grant us strength to go with conscience clear.
	SUSANNA J.


THE FAREWELL OF THE
			OLD YEAR.

	When the moments of friendship are numbered,
	How oft it appears
	That the love which in laughter has slumbered
	Awakes now in tears!

We are friends that have journeyed together 
	Long time, you and I;
Through sunshine and stormiest weather,
	But the old year must die.

	And awhile in your hearts will awaken
	A bitter regret;
And the paths that your feet have forsaken
	You cannot forget.

	Yet I pray you to mourn not my going,
	Though we have been friends;
	What am I but one billow, whose flowing
	Has touched shore, and ends?

	And the tale of my joy and my sorrow
	Lives but as the trace
	Of the waves, that the tides of the morrow
	In turn shall efface.

	Yet I leave you, as waves leave their treasures
	Of coral and shell,
	A gift, passing sorrows and pleasures,
	Our friendship to tell.

	I leave you the friendships, whose growing
	Has been from my birth;
	There is nought that the tide brings in flowing
	Can equal their worth.

	For as shells from the murmurs of ocean
	Steal echoes that last,
	So in friendship is stored the emotion
	Of years that are past.				F. W. B.
	"Spectator."


[Column 1]
SCENERY ON THE D. AND R. G. R. W.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     One who has lived in a mountainous country
all his life is always prepared for majestic
sights; and while they never fail to delight a
lover of nature, they are seldom a source of
surprise. I had heard of the grandeur on the
[Column 2]
Denver and Rio Grande Railway, and I was
prepared to be pleased, but not surprised.  The
first day out the scenery is like most other
mountain scenery in Utah--picturesque, rural
and majestic successively.  There is a precept-
ible change, however, when Castle Valley is
reached.  It is impossible that the whole of the
section known as Castle Valley should be re-
presented by that portion of it through which
the "little giant" runs while day-light lasts.
There is a preceptible decrease in the height of
the mountains.  They widen out; the country
is more of a rolling character; the soil is of a
lightish color, and it is evident there is an
abundance of clay.  The streams are very few
and very far between, and the whole country
is barren and cheerless.  It is not, however,
without interest to the sight viewer, and in
some particulars reminds me very forcibly of
Southern Utah, or that portion of it below the
rim of the basin.
     There are crags and castellated peaks pre-
senting a very picturesque appearance to the
eye.  Hills rise up abruptly in the middle of
the plain and assume varied forms, attractive
because of their irregularity.  There seems lit-
tle question that the surface, or superficial ap-
pearance is the result of aqueous agencies.  The
whole valley has been covered with mighty
streams, which have carried away the soft soil
and left standing the harder substances, wrought
into innumerable forms and shapes and leav-
ing some entirely amorphous.  The rains and
frosts have broken fragments away from the
original mass, and they have fallen piece by
piece at the foot of the present mound;  they
give the impression that the mounds have been
undermined and a heavy cave of earth has re-
sulted.  The variety of forms, the wooded hills,
abrupt declines, elevated peaks, some standing
high and alone, and then a succession of them
of equal height resembling the teeth of an im-
mense and jagged saw--when seen in the dis-
tance and toned down by the intervening at-
mosphere; is picturesque and attractive indeed.
Of the country passed through at night of
course I can give no idea.
     The Marshall Pass is a very interesting point.
So far as the scene is concerned, independent
of the engineering feat in scaling the mountain
at a height of 10,800 feet above the sea level,
every person familiar with mountain scenery
has seen its equal.  It is a very beautiful sight,
as a natural picture, but associated with the
engineering feat referred to, it is a scene grand
in every respect.  It is not a little remarkable
to note the extent to which works of human 
ingenuity add to the sublimity of the works of
nature, when they are associated together, and
the scaling of the Marshall's Pass by the D. &
R. G., is especially noteworthy as an illustration.
It seems incredible to look out of the car win-
dow at the track winding round the mountain
side and think it should be scaled, but it seems
even more of an impossibility when the feat
has been accomplished to look down upon one,
two, three, or even five railroad tracks, far be-
low, and then believe they are all but portions
of one continuous line of rails over which we
have passed on the magnificent ascent.  To
gain this summit requires 17 miles of circui-
tous climbing up a continuous incline.  There
is now, however, a proposition to reduce the
distance to five miles, which is to be accom-
plished by running a tunnel through the moun-
tains a distance of two miles.  This would in-
dicate that twelve miles are lost in running
over mountain sides.  One does not feel any
sense of danger, and the deep gorges and
wooded hills stretching far below, as one gazes
from the car window, present a rich and de-
lightfully pleasing picture to the eye. 
     But there is really a beautiful piece of
scenery on the line--grand not because of any
metaphysical conditions, but from the operation
of natural influences pure and simple.  It is
[Column 3]
in the grand canyon of the Arkansas River. 
The road follows the windings of this river for
a long distance, till it finally enters the canyon
above named.  For miles and miles down this
gorge there seems to be scarcely a particle of
straight track, and the train flies along all the
while as serpentine in its movements as a whip,
before the point has reached its outward limit.
It is impossible to make the road bed straight,
for the reason that it had to follow the course
of the river, and even in doing so, and after
blasting and making a bed everywhere possi-
ble, the river at one point is so hemmed in by
towering rock cliffs that the rock is suspended
over the stream, and held up by an angular
arch--taking an almost inadmissible license
for the sake of clearness--which spans the
river and is bedded in the solid rock on either
side. And here the scene is painfully grand.
As the train winds along the eye turns heaven-
ward in search of the blue sky and in the hope
of seeing the top of the perpendicular solid
rock walls which rise half a mile into the air.
For miles there is not a place in which a tele-
graph pole can be planted, the result being that
iron arms are drilled into the solid rock, and
the crosses bearing the insulators are placed on
them.  The peculiar sensation which the inde-
scribable and lowering majesty the scene im-
presses, I find it absolutely impossible to ex-
press.  The nearest attempt to the ideal de-
scription my soul craves, in which begins to ap-
proach the ideal, is the remark made by a
quiet young man who was viewing the sight by
my side on the rear of the platform, and who,
like me, held his hat with one hand and had a
dead grip on the railing with the other.  After
all had exhausted themselves in superlative ex-
clamations of wonder and admiration, he quiet-
ly turned on his heel, and as he walked
through the door he remarked, "Well, that do
take the bun."
     I would be glad to give even the faintest idea
of the marvelous and majestic grandeur of the
scene, but if you can imagine a stream running
between massive cliffs whose summits are a
half a mile high, and as straight as an arrow--
so straight that they often seem to overhang the
track--if you can imagine these cliffs, piled
one on top of another, without the faintest
shadow of order, a chaotic mass, with the strata
turned in every conceivable direction, if you
can imagine this and a little narrow guage rail-
road track hugging close to the feet of one of
these giants, a mere speck, then you can im-
agine something--but not this scene. it seemed
to me as the engine whistle echoed and re-echoed
through the "Royal Gorge," which, by the way,
is its "purty" name, that the vibrations might
shake some of the jutting crags from their lofty
places and precipitate them down the dark ra-
vine and crush the puny little instrument,
which is used to convey man with lightning ra-
pidity from point to point, to a shapeless pulp.
It seemed to me that it--but as it didn't, it
makes little difference what it seemed.
	As it might appear immodest to cite one's
own experience it may, perhaps, be better to
give that of a gentleman who had traveled all
through the Rockies.  He said he had seen
much and imagined more, but he had never
seen, had never dreamed of anything so dread-
fully grand as the "Royal Gorge."  For myself
I will merely add that I do not regret the ex-
perience; I am glad I went, and saw, and got
through, but, like it always reminds me of
tooth pulling experience--a fellow is powerful
glad when the aching molar is out, but I never
knew a person who was particularly fascinated
with the prospect of a repetition of the experi-
ence.
				WANDERING BOY.


"Politeness is like an air-cushion; there may
be nothing in it, but  eases our jolts wonder-
fully."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  [o]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT OFFICE, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all  business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,  DECEMBER 15, 1884.


CHRISTMAS.

	There is no holiday in all the year with so
many endearing recollections; so many charm-
ing reminiscences, such tender associations, and
altogether such wonderful fascination hanging
over and around it, as Christmas.  It is the day
of days, with the children more especially, when
they expect all sorts of gifts and treasures.  No
wonder the children love the day, it is the time
most prescient of good to them, and to all man-
kind.  The birth time-- the sweet and touching
story of the Savior's birth never grows old, no
matter how oft told.  Christmas Eve!  when the
self-same stars that guided the wise men of
Bethlehem shine down upon us, and we feel
such a holy presence, such a reverential awe, as
though angels were hovering near, and with
glad songs of rejoicing were echoing back from
the ages past Hosannahs to God in the Highest;
Peace on Earth and good will to all mankind.'
How the human heart clings to those words
divine with their answering aspirations.
How they lift the soul into a higher region of
thought and feeling. And the little ones par-
take the spirit of the day and interpret in their
own simple but eloquent way every expression
of sentiment and fancy that is uttered or felt by
the older people.  
	Christmas has grown now to be somewhat
American, where fifty years ago only the Cath-
olics and Church of England people kept Christ-
mas by any religious observance, and very few of
the descendants of the Puritans noticed it at all
as a day of gifts and rejoicing. But time in its
plodding course onward wears away old feuds
and grievances, and even the feeling of bitter-
ness between nations at variance, and during
the last half century many English customs and
much of the English manner has grown into 
the American character; and observances and
ceremonies once entirely discarded by the Puri-
tan forefathers and foremothers have become so
common that the children and young people to-
day are not aware of the strong prejudices that
once existed, and for many years were so decid-
ed against anything that savored of the special
celebrations of the country out of which they
had been cruelly driven on account of their re-
ligion. 
	Thanksgiving Day took on more of less the
character of Chistmas, and although it was not
considered "Gift day," yet there were always
church services in the morning and afterwards
gatherings, reunions, family dinners, evening
festivities, and the decorations with winter flow-
ers, the trailing ivy, and evergreens festooned
fantastically and ornamented with red berries,
and other appropriate symbols of hilarity and
mirth. In place of the real "Yule log" of Eng-
land  the New England people made huge fires
of pine knots, so gnarled and twisted that when
blazing the flame presented the most weired and
grotesque appearance, and when the rooms were
hung with green boughs and vines and all the
paraphernalia of the devotees of pleasure, one can
easily imagine legends and fairy tales to be true
and for a short time at least abandon himself to 
the full enjoyment of the passing pleasure. 
	Generally in every town there is music, either
vocal or instrumental, more often both, and
though the snow may fly without and the north
wind blow, yet all is busy life and eager expect-
ancy within.  New Year's Day was gift day
among the primitive New England folk, and so
they parried Christmas off  each side with
Thanksgiving solemnity and merry making, and
New YEars with glad greetings and welcome
gifts.
	But now the older people even, who were un-
accustomed in childhood to "hanging up the
stocking," have become so familiar with this
old-time German-English practice that they
have grown as well acquainted with Santa Claus
and all the legends of Christmas holidays as
those who were to the manner born, and the
ring of his reindeer bells as he glides at mid-
night over the house-tops are only the echoes of
the music of happy hours that are lived over
and over again in imagination; and it is not now
considered heterodox to feign a belief in
Santa Claus for the children's sake, but quite
the proper thing, and in harmony with the now
moderate but once stern and rigid ideas of New
England propriety and realism. 
	The family gatherings and friendly reunions
are blessed seasons of refreshing, and sure to
strengthen the ties of love that bind together
those that are endeared to each other through
association or the attachment of kindred blood
How happy are those who can assemble on
these precious days and feel that all is well, that
there are no absent faces to be mourned for, no
vacant places reminding them of an irreparable
loss.
	The writer believes most firmly in these fami-
ly dinners.  They keep fresh and green the
flowers of friendship -- and such times and such
places become hallowed shrines in the Temple of
Memory where one turns with loving tender-
ness and recalls in vision the cherished few who
met at the same fireside, who shared the honors
at the festive board, and forever and forever do
the bells of memory ring on, repeating o'er and
o'er each jewelled name.
	Sometimes fortune divides the family circle,
and for a time some one is missed of the loved
ones who helped to make the chain complete;
but if only absent for a time "on pleasure or on
business bent'--it is not right to murmur or
wear a brow of sadness, for "to be parted in body
is not to be estranged in soul-- and many a
dream--and many a vision may pass before the
mind of one whose lips are silent."
	There is one thing all should do at Christmas
time, if they wish to emulate the Savior and do
honor to "the babe in Bethlehem born," and
that is, to remember the poor, and out of the
substance God has given to each, donate lib-
erally to those less fortunate-- let none go cold or
hungry on that day, lest their cries should en-
ter into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth for a
testimony against those who heed not the in-
junction:  "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the
least of these, ye have done it unto me."


HOME AFFAIRS.
	On Tuesday, Dec. 9th, Sisters M. I. Horne, B.
W. Smith, H. M. Whitney and E. S. Taylor
went to Mill Creek to attend a special meeting
of the Relief Society at that place.  There were
two sessions, morning and afternoon, and dinner
in the hall during the intermission, at which
about seventy-five persons were comfortably
seated and enjoyed a bounteous repast.  The 
meetings were presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Hill, President of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward; Bishop Hamilton was present and
made some remarks, also Bro. Snedakar.  The
morning meeting was addressed by Sisters
Horne, Taylor and Whitney, and the afternoon
by Sister Smith and others.  The sisters en-
joyed themselves very much indeed and passed
a very pleasant day in the society of the sis-
ters of Mill Creek.  The benediction was pro-
nounced by Patriarch James Works.
	A second edition of the Compendium has been
issued by the publishers and is now for sale; it is
a book that every Elder of the Church needs,
and Sabbath School teachers and officers of Pri-
mary Associations, and Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. 
A. would do well to purchase a copy, for
their own individual use for reference and
authority.  For Scriptural and other proof of the
Gospel it is invaluable.
	The stores and shops in the city are beginning
to put on a holiday appearance and one cannot
help feeling that the Christmas and New Year's
festivities are near.  There are more elegant and
beautiful things now seemingly than there ever
were before, for every show window is ornament-
ed with the rarest, choicest and loveliest goods
of all conceivable varieties, shapes, colors and
kind.  Surely the most fastidious purchaser can
find presents for his friends to gratify his taste
or theirs.  Everything seems perfect now on the
most elaborate scale, almost all books are illus-
trated, and expensive material used for covers as
well.  But there are books of all kinds in the
market, and prices ranging from a very trifle to
a large amount.  There is no lack of reading mat-
ter at the present time, and the Latter-day
Saint books alone would furnish a library hand-
somely.  It is to be hoped that the people will
remember "Mormon" literature while gathering
up Christmas gifts; as a people the Saints should
patronize the writings of this people as much as
their handiwork, and by this means create an
ambition in the youth of Zion to write good and
useful books.
	We have for sale at this office the books of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, as advertised in an-
other column of the EXPONENT;	and Mrs. Han-
nah T. King's "Epic Poem," paper cover, 25cts,
bound in cloth 50 cts; Mrs. helen Mar Whitney's
"Why we practice Plural Marriage," paper cov-
er, 25 cts.; Mrs. Hannah T. Cornaby's "Auto-
biography and Poems," $1.00; Mrs. Augusta J.
Crocheron's "Representative Women of Dese-
ret," 75 cts. Any one of these books is suitable
to give a friend as a remembrance on Christmas
or New Year's, and there is nothing more appro-
priate than books for Christmas gifts.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, December 26 and 27,
commencing at 10 a.m. and  Y. L. M. I. 
A. at 2 p.m. as usual.  It is to be hoped there
will be a goodly number attend these meetings,
that the sisters may be encouraged in their du-
ties, and not only receive the instruction they
need in the performance of the same, but also
"a word in due season," for O, how good and
how precious a thing it is.


EXTRACTS AND REMARKS. 
	The Deseret News, Dec. 10th, published a let-
ter from a Methodist in Bozeman, Montana, in
which he sets forth his ideas of the way in
which he would treat the “Mormon problem."
He says: 
EDITOR DESERET NEWS: 
	Through the kindness of some of your good


Mormon women I received a couple of little
Mormon books a few weeks ago.  They are the
first Mormon works that I ever read.  I was
not a little surprised while reading Mrs. Croche-
ron’s “Representative Women of Deseret,” to
find that so many of your Mormon women were
from New England, where wisdom is supposed
to have originated.  From the stories, that we
commonly hear of the ignorance of the Mormon
women I had almost made up my mind that
they must have come from some place where
they keep the run of the day of the week by
cutting a notch on a stick every morning. But
I find that some of them have even come from
Boston, the “hub of the universe.” So you can
plainly see that it has not been the reading of
Mormon books that has shaken my faith in the
present marriage system.
	The writer then makes further explanations
on the subject, very logical, and speaks of the
wretchedness resulting from monogamous mar-
riages in the world.  Refers those who find
fault with the system of a plurality of wives to
the Bible; and after telling some very plain and
unvarnished truths about the matter, he goes
on to say:
	“I often hear Christians tell of the joy and
bliss they expect to feel when they get to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  I don’t suppose that they have
ever stopped to think that Sarah, Keturah and
Hagar will be there; also Jacob, Leah, Rachel
and the two handmaids.  I have an idea they
will have to change their minds before they get
to Abraham’s bosom, or they are liable to be-
come dissatisfied with the country after they
get there, and there will be only one thing left
for them to do.  That is, to take Horace Greeley’s
advice and “go west.’
	“When the affairs of this world are all wound
up:  when all nations, kindreds and tougues shall
assemble for the great coronation of the King of
kings and Lord of lords, it does not seem to me
to be just right to have Abraham, Jacob, and
all the polygamists of old there, and at the same
time have the Mormons shut oat for the crime
of polygamy.  I am going to be there myself,
God being my helper, and if I.find that state of
things there you may look for me to come to the
door of that great banqueting hall and cry at
the top of my voice:
	"Let every kindred, every tribe,
		On this terrestrial ball,
	To him all majesty ascribe, 
		And crown him Lord of all. 

	"Oh!  that with yonder sacred throng
		We at his feet may fall;
	Come join the everlasting song,
		And crown him Lord of all.”

	This is only a part of the letter, but it shows
that there are a few people who are not quite
ready to shut the Mormons oat of the kingdom
of heaven.
	It is true that of the twenty-one women, a
sketch of whose lives are published in the book
he mentions, seventeen of them were either
born in New England or of New England par-
entage.  It has often been remarked as singular
that the descendants of the very people who fled
from the mother country because of religious in-
tolerance, should be the very men and women
to help lay the foundation of what is termed a
new religion in the new world.  It has been
said by one of the noted American writers that
“Mormonism is the only new religion America
can boast.” It is indeed the opening up of a
new dispensation with a religion as old as eter-
nity, that with its covenants, ordinances and
blessings reaches back to the beginning of time,
and grasping the present,extends forward to the
ages that are to come encircling the living and
the dead, and finally blending in one united an-
them the past, present and future,brought about
by means of those sacred and holy principles
that the world so condemn and despise.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS IN BERNE
	A most interesting event in this strange city
is the market.  It takes place every Tuesday and
Saturday, and was par[-]cularly interesting just
before Christmas.  On Monday, Tuesday being
the holiday this week, large crowds of people
collected from all parts and the streets were lit-
erally thronged. 
	Most of the selling and buying here is done
out of doors and at a time l ke the winter holi-
days the streets ase all decked and ornamented
with the artic es of every description.  The princi-
pal thoroughfares become a large variety estab-
lishment, where one walks from one department
to another instead of walking, as one might sup-
pose, through the streets.
	Here we pass a stand of Berner carving works,
then another of ornamental "Leckerli"--a sort
of ginger cake with figures on it; now an old
woman with suspenders hanging all over her,
and a basket of them in her hands; next a man
covered with needles and pins and a tray of
them in front of him; a cart follows filled with
dolls and toys of all kinds, and presently one
sees a line hung with stockings and woolen
goods, after which comes a table of wooden shoes
--and so the sight goes on, extending for many
blocks.  These stands are mostly placed on either
side of the street, and straight through the cen-
tre stands a row of Christmas trees.
	At such times, of course, many children are
to be seen.  On Monday the people on the street
were amused and perhaps saddened a little by
tha sight of two little boys, the older scarcely
more than five years, shabbily dressed, walking
along singing at the top of their voices.  The
children sang remarkably well, giving the Al-
pine "Yodel" clearly and sweetly, too.
	Christmas morning at five o'clock the balls in
the large Muenster began to ring, and rang
every quarter of the succeeding hour, at the
conclusion of which service began.  It was a
clear, cold morning, and a perfect quiet pervailed
everywhere, the only sounds being the rich
tones of the bells and  steps and voices of the
people as they gathered to the church for wor-
ship.
	This Muenster is one of the largest churches in
Switzerland, and was erected in the 15th cen-
tury.  It stands near the centre of the old city,
and the tower commands a most lovely view,
reaching far over the city to the snow covered
Alps. It has never yet been finished, and is
never likely to be.  Its bells are very musical,
being indescribably sweet and deep in tone. The
belfry contains five large and several small ones,
the largest of these being the sixth in size in
the world, weighing 26,700 pounds.  The bell at 
the very top of the tower, rung only at New
Year's, is solid silver, and is the largest silver
bell in Europe.  The metal from which it was
made was brought here, so says the sacristan, by
the first settlers, eighteen hundred years ago.
	A family lives in this belfry to take charge of
it and see to the bells.  They have been there
twenty-eight years and know no other life.
They laughingly reply in answer to our com-
menton their elevated home, that they only
have to ascend one flight of stairs.  True enough,
only a flight of 224 steps would seem long
enough to be subdivided a few times.
	At a quarter to nine Christmas day all these 
bells rang out at the same time, making the air
fairly quiver with their music.  Twenty-one
men were engaged pulling the ropes.  At nine
service was again held, then at one and again at
three, after which followed a communion ser-
vice.  
	Christmas here is not the occasion of any jolli-
fication or musical merriment.  Everything is
quiet and peaceful, the day being celebrated in
the homes with Christmas trees, good dinners
and, I hope, happy hearts. 	A. W. C.


PEACE.
	The peace of God passeth understanding, it
reigns pre eminent, eternal in the heavens.
When man came from his Maker all was peace.
Our Heavenly Father planted it in every bosom
and if sought it will abide in every child of
God.  The Great Redeemer was all peace—the
“Prince of Peace.” The Holy Babe cradled in
Bethlehem's manger was peace quiescent.
	The mandates of the Lord were given in love
—obedience from His children was required.
The ambitious son of the morning waged war
in heaven--pride was his fall, rebellious, disobe-
dience.  The flat went forth when he, with all
his hosts, were hurled from the presence of Je-
hovah.  Peace was destroyed; tumult, war and
terror were his offspring.  Where he reigns there
is no respite, no peace, no rest, no quiet; all hos-
tile to all good.  His race is nearly done; his
doom is sealed; his chains are ready.  The ever-
lasting Gospel is restored.  The great Millennial
rest it dawning on us.
	Peace from the four corners of the earth will
be proclaimed.  Christ with ten thousand
Saints will come in glory with the New Jerusa-
lem and plant His foot in Zion, when the Saints
of latter days will shout, "Hosannah! Peace!
Peace! All is Peace!"
	Christ did come, and soon will come again.
Pause, and with reverence mark the contrast. 
He came their Redeemer, Humble, Immaculate
and Peaceful.  The proud nobles of the earth
spurned and rejected Him.  He did His mission
and with the approbation of His Father returned
into His presence.
	The honorable of the earth, His faithful saints,
are waiting, watching, and with an intensity of
love and adoration burning within them, are
longing to behold Him at His second coming,
when he will come with an immensity of glory
as King of kings and Lord of lords.  Then will
Time be swallowed up in Eternity.  Peace will
reign triumphant.		ANN GELL.
	Whitechapel, London.


ANOTHER TESTIMONY OF THE GIFT
OF HEALING.

CANTERBURY, New Zealand.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Through the medium of your valuable paper
I wish to make it known and to testify to the
power of God and the gift of healing.
     For many years I have been a sufferer from a
diseased leg, and at different times have sought
relief from various sources, but without any
beneficial results.  A few months ago my leg
became so much worse that my friends feared
for my life, and I was advised by people again
to seek for medical advice and relief, but having
lost faith in the wisdom of man, I determined
to rely wholly upon the power of God; accord-
ingly the Elders of the Church were called in,
anointed me with oil and administered to me;
the result of which is manifest, for from that
time my leg improved and I am now fully res-
tored to health and am anxious to testify to the
world of the goodness of God towards me.
     It is a consolation for us to know that the gifts
and blessings that existed in the primitive
church are again extant upon the earth and we


have the right to avail ourselves of these privi-
leges. How much more earnest we should
strive to be in promug[-]ing the principles of the
Gospel, so that others also might enj[-]y these
blessings.  My heart is filled with joy and re-
joicing,and with gratitude to God for this mani-
festation of His power.
     Stray copies of your interesting paper some-
times come this way and are read with avidity
by all the members of this small branch of the
Church. We are few in numbers, but are doing 
the best we can; and though we have a bitter
spirit of opposition to contend with, are enjoy-
ing a rich portion of the Spirit of God, and are
looking forward to the time when the Lord will
gather us to the valley, that we may assemble
with His people. and learn more fully of His
ways.
 Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
				MARY ANN SIMPSON.
Witnessed by
E.S.T. SIMPSON,
ARTHUR PORTER,
LOUISA PORTER.

NOV. 8, 1881.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

	To the memory of Margaret T. Smoot, (wife of
President A. O. Smoot) Stake President of the
Relief Society of Utah County, who departed
this life September 1st. 1881.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His divine
Providence has called away our beloved Presi-
dent, Margaret T. Smoot, after a long life of use-
fulness spent in His Kingdom here upon the
earth, to join those behind the veil;
	Resolved, That while we feel to bow to His
most holy will, we miss our sister from our as-
sociations, and her wise, motherly counsels from
our circles.
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, will hold her memory
sacred, and strive in our lives to follow her
teachings, and remember her wise counsels, in-
asmuch as she was ever a comforter to those in
distress and a ministering angel at the bedside
of the sick, ever striving to allay suffering and
sorrow wherever she found it.
	Resolved, That we, the Relief Society of Utah
County, do tender our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of each society in the
county, and a copy sent to the Territorial En-
quirer and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.		MARY JOHN,
		RHODA LYMAN,
	C. DANIELS, Secretary.


[Column 1]		

	A REVERIE.

	If there is anything that is really comforting
when I want to collect my thoughts, and peer
far into the future, or call up a vision of the
past, it is to sit in the dusk of evening, or when
the rest of the household have retired, all
alone in a dim shadowy room in front of a
grate full of live, red coals—sit and dream,
wide awake, O such delightful dreams! though
tinged with sadness.   Imagination, however,
must be vivid and the mood, must be decided-
ly reflective. The mind can wander away then
even into green lanes, where one hears merry
voices, and sees troops of boys and girls, and
their laughter rings out so clearly that it makes
me start, and although I sit here by the fire in
bleak December, I feel the warmth of the sun-
light and see the blue sky overhead, and I see
many, many curious and familiar places and 
people; in fact I dream so long that I wonder

[Column 2]
whether I am my real self, or if the morning
will find me going about my accustomed duties.
What thought spring up and resolve them-
selves into such real substances, as to almost
take on shapes of things, unseen, and yet to the
mind tangible. We feel and know that the 
heart beats still, that we are sensiblie to feeling,
therefore this must be only a dreamy phantasy,
a reverie, but we can see things that are not,
yet things that were.
	O, if the pen could only paint in telling 
words the scenes that pass before the eyes at
such times, it would be most interesting; but
unfortunately these are things one can never
describe accurately, or make another realize;
but for once I will tell you what I may of what
I see, although, perchance, you've seen the
same yourself a hundred times; but then, you
know, one's experience testifies to another's.
	I see a group of girls, not all so very hand-
some, but all pretty, with bright eyes and
pearly teeth, red lips and thoughtful faces;
some have dark eyes and dark hair, others blue
eyes and light hair; some are tall and others
small in stature, but nearly of the same age.
There are seven of them in the room and evi-
dently there is something unusual going on,
or about to take place, by the expression of
their countenances.
	It is a low, wide room with a great open fire-
place, and the wood piled high on the brass
andirons that are polished as bright as gold.
Shall we listen, for their lips move?  Susan,
one of the smaller and younger girls, is saying:
"I wonder where we'll be next year at this
time? Now that we are going away for vacation
and the holidays we might fall in love!"  "And 
I wonder," and Hannah, an older and wiser
looking one, with liquid black eyes that seemed
to read the thoughts of all the others, "whether 
any of us will be married." "And now," said
Sarah, who spoke like an oracle, "while we are
all here together, let us make a vow, and let
us be sure and keep it!" "What shall it be?"
from all the girls at once. "That none of us
will marry a man who had not a professional
title." And thereupon all the seven consented.
This may seem very silly to those who read it,
but if they could see those charming girls as I 
see them, they would readily comprehend that
singular vow as significant of the future of
these school-girls, for such they are, just about
to separate and each go her own way, treading
new paths, always sunny and pleasant while
youth and hope beat high and fortune smiles.
The girls linger over the fire and talk of home,
the journey they mustbegin to-morrow, the
hopes of success in this or that direction, until
the clock strikes the hour of midnight, and
then reluctantly they reitre, with an almost sad
"good night" to each other, for they know that 
on the morrow they must say a fond good
bye.
	To tell the story of each of these young
girls as we know it, and as we see it to-night
in mental vision, would be to write seven
chapters; for each would need its own, for their
lives lay far apart, and indeed, after that night,
only two of the seven ever saw each other
again. But perhaps you would like to know if
they married, and whether they kept sacred
the foolish vow they made, and if they loved
and were happy? I'll tell you one or two
things and leave the remainder of my story
for a sequel. They all, save one, lived long
enough to repent the idle promise made to
each other, and to realize that true, genuine
worth does not consist in a professional title.
Of course they silently reserved to themselves
the privilege of loving the man, as well as ad-
miring a title. Perhaps I might as well tell
you, lest your curiosity should cause you men-
tal anxiety, something about the fate of these
enthusiastic school-girls.
	Elizabeth, a tall, queenly looking girl, whose
accomplishments were superior to most of the
others, and who lived in a large city, married,

[Column 3]
within a year, a French Count—who had
neither money or brains, and who had not the
least practical idea of life, and of course made
her days perfectly wretched;  I will let your
imagination conjure up the untold story of her
repentance for the foolish vow she had made.
	Three of the girls, Sarah, Anna and Grace,
entered the list of teachers, and though one
might fancy they might have learned wisdom
through such an experience, still two of them
married, when an opportunity offered—such as 
they thought acceptable—and each one had
her own life history; a full one too.
	Ophelia, who was totally unlike the other 
girls in almost every respect, prouder and more
reticent, was already in love with a young
physician, and in due time they were united.
But she won him through strategy from the
girl he loved, and she found, when it was too
late, that her cup of misery was full to over-
flowing, and ere she had completed the seventh
year of her wedded life she was an inmate of
an insane asylum.
	Thus does retribution ever follow those who,
by duplicity and cunning, seek to destory an-
other's happiness to secure their own.
	Of all the seven girls who that night con-
versed together so full of life and happiness,
whose future seemed so full of bright prom-
ises of success in whatever undertaking they
might venture upon, only two of them ever
gained a crown worth wearing, and these two
girls became members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. One of these died
of hardship and privation, brought about by
the cruel persecutions and drivings of wicked
mobs, but she died with a glorious hope and 
assurance of an immortal crown and title in
the world to come.
	One of that number still lives in far off New
England, a rich but lonely and disappointed
old maid. Some day I'll tell you the rest of
the story, for it is late now and the fire had
gone so low that my reverie is ended, and I,
too, must retire, for on the morrow there is
work to do, and I am sure this is enough for
one chapter of the story of seven.
	AUNT EM.


A WELL DRESSED WOMAN.
	She was not beautiful, nor even pretty; and
so, madam, you may let down your nostrils and
uncurl the corners of your mouth. She had
not even a fine figure, in which very important
respect she was only "fair to middling," as they
say in trade. But as she approached us we
were conscience of a subtle sense of pleasure.
As she came nearer and nearer this increased,
and when it became all too certain that it was
not her beauty which awoke this delightful
sensation there was a moment of thoughtful
hesitation in the mind, and then it became
clear enough that it was the woman's dress that
was so beautiful, and that it was the extreme
rarity of this particular kind of beauty which
made the sensation we have mentioned. Of
course we must tell what this dress was.
Nothing easier. It was a simple loose gown
high upon the shoulders, girdled closely but
not tightly at the waist, and falling in light
easy folds, not to the ground, but nearly to the
ground behind and not quite so low before, so
that as the woman walked not even the hem of
her garments swept the sidewalk. There was
not a flounce, or a ruffle, or a plait, or a patch
of trimming of any kind upon the dress, the
skirt of which was simple enough to afford per-
fect ease of motion and to be graceful, but was
not full, was not tied back, did not hang over
a bustle, and there was no overskirt. The ma-
terial was muslin, or some cotton stuff: and--
oh, madam! read, mark, and inwardly digest--
it was not starched. It did not stand stiff, or
break up into patches, or make a rustling or
crackling as she walked. I was soft in texture,


soft in its outlines, and noiseless. Had it no
ornament at all?  Yes, indeed. Around the
bottom hem, at the wrists, and at the throat,
there was a narrow figured border of blue,
beautiful in design and in color, which gave
the dress a perfect finish, and was attractive
in itself without being at all obstrusive. Over
this dress she wore a short, light garment of
the same material, sleeveless and falling to the
hips. This costume might have been worn by
a Greek woman, by Aspasia herself, to the de-
light of Pericles, and yet there was nothing
about it which seemed outre or even strange,ex-
cept its simple elegance. Who the woman was
who thus clothed herself with beauty will prob-
ably ever remain a fact unknown in the mod-
ern history of costume.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    I feel it a pleasure to pen a few lines to my
sister, the readers of the Exponent. We
often read of the good times enjoyed by our
sisters in associating together at meetings, so-
ciables and birthdays; so we thought we would
let you know we were not far behind in that
line here in Arizona. Not long since I had
the pleasure to meet and shake hands with an
old friend, sister and neighbor from your city,
who is at present the guest of Prest. Layton.
    The 16th of September was the birthday of
our highly esteemed sister, Elizabeth Layton;
quite a number of brethren and sisters took
their baskets filled with the good things pre-
pared for the occasion, and gave her a surprise.
About forty-five sat down to a sumptuous re-
past.
    Prest. Willmirth East, with several sisters,
came up from Pima, bringing with them a
handsome birthday cake prepared by their own
hands. We had a very pleasant time and all
enjoyed an excellent spirit. After we had par-
take of the good things, we were regaled with
music and singing by Brother Joseph East and
wife, also by Sisters Mary and Pamelia Ran-
som, and Lucinda Gustaveson; recitations by
Prest. W. East; songs by Sisters E. Lay-
ton and Halliday, also Bro. J. Moody; 
reading, the Prophet Joseph's last address to
the Nauvoo Legion, by one of the ladies;
speeches by Prest. and Sister E. Layton, after
which there was music and dancing until
about ten o' clock.			W. EAST.


FROM HYRUM AND OTHER NORTH-
ERN TOWNS.

	HYRUM, Cache Co., Nov. 15, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few words from this part of the
vineyard would be acceptable, if not very in-
teresting. We are blessed with good health
and pleasant weather, and though our enemies
seem to increase in rage, filling the papers with
falsehoods concerning us, packing juries to con-
vict and imprison those who have not broken
any constitutional law, forming anti-Mormon
leagues, denouncing us unworthy to live, to say
nothing of equal rights; still we are undaunt-
ed, and fear not their threats, for we know in
whom we trust, and feel satisfied that He will
control all things for the good of those who
serve Him. Our position reminds me of the
words of the Apostle Paul: "Those that live
godly in Christ Jesus must suffer persecution."
What else should induce them to persecute and
hate us? There is no people on the earth more
honest, more virtuous and more industrious
than are the Latter-day Saints; and our Arti-
cles of Faith are, without an exception, sus-
tained by the Holy Bible; the very book that


all the civilized world accept as their guide
and standard of salvation.
	Our Primaries in this Stake of Zion are in
good working order. They have emigrated
the fifth child of the Almond family, one with
the last company of Saints, two of the chil-
dren last year, and two the year before. The
children seem to take great pleasure in giving
five or ten cents a year for bringing the little
ones from a laud of poverty to a land of plen-
ty.
	A few weeks ago, by invitation, I accom-
panied our esteemed President, Zina D.
Young, to Malad Valley, she having been invit-
ed by Bishop Stewart to visit the sisters of
that place, where we held several meetings.
We also held meetings at St. Johns, Samaria
and Washakie (Indian settlement); at all of
these gatherings we had an enjoyable time.
Much good instruction was given by Sister
Zina, Bishop Stewart and others, and it seemed
to be a time of feasting to all.
	In witnessing the good influence produced
and the many hearts made glad by the visits of
Sister Zina, the idea is suggested, what a good
work such persons could do traveling and la-
boring among the sisters. We were received
and treated with great kindness by all, and by
none more so than Bro. Jesse Dredge, who met
us at Collinston with a carriage and took us to
the different settlements and returned us to the
depot.
	Our brethren and sisters are doing a good
work among the Lamanites. They have good
day and Sunday schoo s, as well as branches
of the Relief Society and Primary. The good
order observed in these meetings might well be
a pattern to a more enlightened race.
		JANE E. MOLEN.
	Nephi.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	On Friday, November 2lst, the officers of
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the four wards
of Brigham City held a social at the residence
of Prest. Minnie J. Snow, where a few hours
were spent in a very pleasing and profitable
manner. Addresses, speeches, recitations, vo-
cal and instrumental music was rendered by
the young ladies in a very pleasing and credit-
able manner, displaying skill and good taste,
exhibiting earnest reflection, a realization of
duty and a determination to honor their
positions and sustain the principles of our
faith.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the assembly
in a very touching and eloquent manner. Spoke
of the peculiar interest she felt in the associa-
tions of Brigham City. Saw and felt intelli-
gence seldom seen elsewhere. Gave advice on
speaking; said not to take up time in offering
apologies, but to cultivate a good and humble
spirit, and then the Lord will bestow the Com-
forter, for the Lord loves the meek and lowly
of heart. Felt the need of the fulness of the
Spirit in our exercises. Advised subjects that
would cause deep reflection; if recitations,
those that are worth storing up in our minds.
Hoped that the spirit manifested in our society
would draw us nearer and nearer together and
be felt in our future meetings; thought book
education was good, but far ahead of that is an
education in the truths of the everlasting Gos-
pel.
	Sister Harriet A. Snow, President of the Re-
lief Society of Box Elder Stake, next addressed
the meeting. Expressed her pleasure in listen-
ing to the wise counsels of Sister Eliza, also
to the resolutions of the young ladies; hoped
they would be carried out, for light and intel-
ligence is what we want to gain, and the more
we cultivate the spirit of unity the greater will
be our power, for now in our youth is the
time to improve, so as to become great and


noble women—never letting anything arise to
dampen our ardor, but being humble and prayer-
ful and persevering in our meetings and in all
good works, and the Lord will bless us.
	Prest. M. J. Snow, after making a few good,
appropriate remarks, ushered the company in-
to her large dining room, where a sumptuous
table was spread with the bounties of life.
which all partook of to their satisfaction, and
a most pleasant, enjoyable time was spent,
which will long be rememberd by those who
participated.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main,		Respectfully,
		M. J. SNOW, President,
		ANNIE N. BROWNING, Cor. Sec.


R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WEST HARRISVILLE.
	The Relief Society of West Harrisville, We-
ber Co., was favored with a visit from Sister
Jane S. Richards, Stake President and her
Counselor, II. C. Brown, also Sister Sarah S.
Richards, who advised, encouraged and in-
structed us in a very able manner on the prin-
ciples of the Gospel. Bishop P. G. Taylor
and his Counselor, W. Ransom, also gave us
some very good instructions.
Our prayer is that we may so live that we 
may have the blessing of ouur Heavenly Father 
to help and assist us in carrying on the 
work before us, and obey every commandment 
given. Ever praying for the welfare of the
Exponent.
			CHRISTINA HEGSTED, Sec.
SOUTH COTTINWOOD WARD.
Minutes of the Primaty Meeting of the
South Cottonwood Ward, held in the ward
house, Thursday, Nov. 12th, 1884. Called to
order by President E. M. Davies, at 11 o'clock.
Singing, "In our lovely Deseret." Prayer by
Sister Ann Wheeler. Singing, "Don't kill the
little birds." Roll called, showing an attend-
ance of thirty-five members. Minutes of previ-
ous meeting read and accepted. Next in order 
came the songs and recitations, etc, by the
members of the association, which were very
good. Prest. Davies followed in short remarks,
exhorting the children and thanking them for
their good behavior and for being so punctual
with their part of the programme.
SIster Bathsheba Smith occupied a short 
time; said she was pleased to see so many pres-
ent and such good order; told the children to
be prayerful and keep out of bad company.
The song, "Word of Wisdom," was sung by
members of the association, followed by Bro. T.
A. Wheeler, Sister Mary Rawlins and Sister
Ann Wheeler, after which Sister Davies said
there had been a quilt made by the association
and donated to the Hospital.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 o'clock the next
Saturday. Singing "Joseph Smith's first
prayer." Benediction by Bro. Job Welsh.
ELIZABETH DAVIES, President,
EMILY E. BRINTON, Secretary.


INVESTIGATING MORMONISM.

	The remarkable growth of Mormonism in
Utah and other parts of the United States,
and the efforts made by the ablest statesmen
to check the growth of polygamy, has brought
the Mormon problem so prominently before the
minds that an investigation of the original Mor-
mon Bible manuscript by scientific men will be
had, commencing next Monday. This manu-
script, which is declared to be the translation
of some heiroglyphics inscribed upon metal
plates, whose hiding place in the soil of Ontario
Co., N. Y., had been revealed to Joseph Smith
by an angel of the Lord, is in the possession


of David Whitmer, of Richmond, Mo. Mr.
Whitmer is now quite an aged man, and the
only surviving member of the little band who
assisted Joseph Smith in the founding of the
Mormon Church. He is said to lead an almost
blameless life, and is a firm believer that the
manuscript intrusted to his care is of Divine
origin. Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery and Martin
Harris were the witnesses who testified when
Smith published the Mormon Bible that an
angel of God came down from heaven and
laid before their eyes the plates that bore the
character of which the manuscript is said to be
translated. The investigation is being pushed
by Prof. Clark Braden, formerly President of
Abington College. The judges appointed for
the occasion are Col. J. T. Childs, of the Rich-
mond Conservator; Mr. Ethan Allen, of the
Lexington Observer, and Mr. Harrison, of the
Richmond Democrat. One of the principal
witnesses to appear before the Examining
Board is Maj. J. H. Gilbert, of Palmyra, N. Y.
He is the printer who set the type for the first
Mormon Bible. The points to be considered
are: 1. Is the manuscript in Whitmer's
hands the manuscript Maj. Gilbert used in set-
ting up the Book of Mormon? 2. Is the
manuscript punctuated and capitalized, and to
what extent? 3. Are the errors in grammar
and composition that are in the first edition of
the Book of Mormon found in the manuscript?
4. Has the manuscript been changed since it
left the hands of Oliver Cowdery, and to what
extent and by whom? There have been sever-
al theories advanced by persons who are not
of the Mormon faith as to the origin of this
Bible. The most plausibe one, however, and
the one most generally accepted, is that the
Book of Mormon was written by Rev. Solo-
mon Spaulding, a graduate of Dartmouth Col-
lege, who was in the habit of using his leisure
hours in the compilation of speculative and
historical romance relating to the origin of the
races which were former inhabitants of this
globe. The manuscript of one of these stories
is said to have been stolen by Sidney Rigdon.
After the publication of these scriptures by
Smith an attempt was made by the daughters
of Spaulding to expose the fraud, but success
did not crown their efforts. The original book,
as published by Smith, did not sanction poly-
gamy, but he is said to have received a revela-
tion in 1843 which authorized each "saint" to
take several wives. The examination of the
manuscript will occupy ten days or two weeks,
and the decision of the judges will probably
set at rest any further discussion of the ques-
tion.—Globe Democrat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	On Monday, November 10th, Mr. Woodall
obtained leave to bring in a Bill for conferring
the Parliamentary franchise on duly qualified
women. The Bill was brought in and read a
first time.—Ex.
	Mrs. Eva Luckes, matron of the London
Hospital, has gathered into a volume her series
of "Lectures on General Nursing," delivered
by her to the probationers of the London Hos-
pital Nurses’ Training School. They embrace,
as might be expected, much instruction, of a
kind particularly adapted to the class to whom
the lecture were addressed. Their range, how-
ever, is very wide; and few who are interested
in the subject can fail to learn something of
practical value at the hands of this competent
instructress.—Ex.
	On October 23rd, Miss Emma Jane Morgan,
Heatherland, Crumwear, Pembrokeshire
(the Sister of Dr. Francis Hoggan) was mar-
ried, in the little village church in which for
nearly half a century her forefathers have
worshipped, to Rev. Thomas Jones. The bride

[Column 2]

was, by her own special request, given away
by her mother, and not, as is customary, by a
male relation. This conservative lady little
knew that her request involved a most radical
innovation, the giving away of the bride by
her father or nearest male relation signifying,
at its origin, the making over to the husband
all the property rights of the bride, the mun-
dium, which was vested by prescriptive right
in the father of the girl, and the buying of
which, by the future husband, furnished a sum
of money, which eventually was appointed as
the dowry of the bride.—Ex.
	Another lady, Mdme. de St. Julien, Superior
of the Filles de la Charite de St. Vincent de
Paul, and Superior or the Military Hospital
of Marseilles, has been raised to this rank.
Mdme. de St. Julien has served in hospitals for
thirty years, and devoted herself to cholera
patients in 1865 and during the recent epidem-
ic. A gold medal has been granted by the 
Government for the same reason to Mine Maig-
non (Soeur Stephanie),who belongs to the same
hospital. There are at present seventeen wo-
men in France who have received the distinc-
tion of the Order of the Legion of Honour, of
whom Mdme. St. Julien is the last. The Order
is mostly given for devotion to the sick and
wounded; Lady Pigott, for instance, besides
several French women, has received the order
as a reward for her services to the wounded in
the Franco-German w r. But the name of
Rosa Bonheur, artiste peintre, is also in the list,
and we are told that Mdme. Abicot was decora-
ted for defending the house of the mdire of
Oison, her husband, against "armed men," and
that Mdme. Regis, who is the first decorated
Frenchwoman, earned her distinction in 1849
for "resisting the mob."—Ex.

	No cloud can overshadow a true christian,
but his faith will discern a rainbow in it.—
Bishop Thorne.
	The three intentions of poetry: Increase of
good, increase of understanding, and increase
of happiness.—Catherall.
	As the mind must govern the hands, so in
society the man of intelligence must direct the
man of labor.—Dr. Johnson.
	Conversation is the daughter of reasoning,
the mother of knowledge, the breath of the
soul, the commerce of hearts, the bond of
friendship, and the nourishment of content.
	"He that hath pity on another man's sorrow
shall be free from it himself; and he that de-
lighteth in and scorneth the misery of another,
shall at one time or another fall into the same
gulf."


OBITUARY.

	It is with a feeling of regret that I write to acquaint
the readers of the EXPONENT of the death of our sister,
Rebecca Jane Hall, who died at Enterprise, Morgan Co.,
November 22nd, 1884, of remittent fever. Deceased was
the mother of seven children, six of whom are living;
the youngest two weeks and four days old.
	She was a member and the Treasurer of the Relief
Society, also Counselor in the Primary Association,
and a useful member of our community.
	She was a faithful wife, a loving mother and a true
friend, and we deeply feel her loss. Though her path-
way has been strewn with thorns she has won the vic-
tory, and has gone to rest. Friends will miss her, but
a bright future is before them at the resurrection morn.
	AMELIA CROFT.


[Column 1]
			DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country prompty responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
For Sale at this Office.
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		25c.per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,			$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.		1.50		"

HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESS[-]S. SMITH & CASE of Salt Lake city are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund 
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 50[-]					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z.	C.	M.	I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS  AND  WALL  PAPERS,  ALL 
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT   TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
		DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and I[-]
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

F Auerbach & Bro
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goo[-]
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1885	No. 15.


A REVERIE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve. It is the noon of night!
Another year augments the eternal pile—
Another cycle in the round of time—
	Another year the denizens of earth
	Approach still nearer to their term of life,
	Earth life—and all its sublunary joys,
	Its pomps and vanities, its loving and beloved.
Solemn is this noiseless, ceaseless, stealthy,
Yet ever sure approaching foot of time—
Oh, speck of time! Oh, little day of life!
Daily we walk, our hand in hand with death;
Stealing hearts and brains afiianced unto us—
Of parents, children, brothers, sisters, friends,
Preceding us to the eternal goal,
Leaving us stranded like an o'erwhelm'd wreck.
	But come my other self—my better self—
	And let us enter that mysterious
	Chamber—styled in mother tongue, the human heart.
This flight of time, why should it make us sad?
That which is inscrutable 'tis wise to bear;
'Tis but the programme of the stage of life,
On which each mortal has to play a part,
Chosen, or selected, as the case may be,
But any way involving destiny,
Destiny that ends in immortality!
Here in our closet, with the portal shut,
Let us, my better self, this theme pursue:

This grandest study of a human life—
We look abroad, see the earth is hidden
In its shroud of snow, all creation dead,
And also our beloved and treasured dead!
O'er whom the sad "red eye" of weeping love
Has been in our bereavement bent.

Look abroad—desolation reigns around,
The sun himself looks cold and cheerless,
The ever bubbling stream in frost locked up;
Nature beautiful nature, child of God,
Mourns as though desolate and forsaken,
As though her Father had forgotten her,
And left her in the cold embrace of death.

Hush! wait! be passive, cheer thy drooping soul;
A few brief months and Sol again will rise,
Bringing warmth and brightness and renewing life
On all that now lies dead before our eyes;
Earth will "arise and shine" to meet her Lord,
Arrayed in all her gorgeous robes of ev'ry
Hue and tint, surmounted by her floral crown,
And once again life will eject the dead.

The human plants that sleep beneath the sod
Shall they not rise beneath the smile of God?
Shall the rose and the myrtle bloom again,
All nature wake to renovated life,
And all mankind lie dead forever more?
Shall goodness perish in the dark, cold grave,
And wisdom be dissolved amid the dust,
And shall tears be shed o'er such in vain?

Behold the insect that builds itself a tomb,
And long lays shrouded in its silken cone,
Without feet, or shape, or power to move;
Look again! it has burst its silent tomb,
It is full of life, and sails through the air
Rejoicing in its renovated being.

Shall life to all creation be renewed,
And God's own image, potentates of earth,
Bearing on their brow the stamp of sovreignty,
Shall they be left forgotten in the grave?
Reason, analogy and common sense
Declare, "the fool" alone can say, "No God."

Heir of immortality, lift thine eyes.
One cometh to open the prison doors
To gather from the four winds of heaven
Ills redeemed—eternally redeemed ones.
Thousands of angels are on His right hand;
He is the friend of the good, Savior
Of all—Jesus, the Son of God.


ONE OF THE SEVEN.

	Those who read "A Reverie" in the EXPON-
ENT of Dec. 15th, will perhaps be interested in
the little circumstance related here, of one of
the number who separated after school days
were over, each one to go her own way.
	The old maid, who still resides in New Eng-
land, once came very near being a Latter-day
Saint. A group of people were gathered one
cold winter morning, in a small village, at the
brookside, evidently with a serious purpose in
view. There were ministers of the different
churches, the village school and post-master,
the leader of the choir and others, with two
Mormon missionaries, also a local Elder from
an adjoining town, who was well known in that
vicinity and to the townspeople assembled on
that occasion. The stream was frozen over,
and two workmen were busy making a place
large enough for the ordinance of baptism by
immersion, to be performed there. Meantime
the people had crowded together in little knots
to talk of the event, for Mormonism was a new
thing in those parts, and it was creating some
excitement.
	At first the conversation was very low, but
by and bye one might have heard some such
ejaculations as these: "What fools these Mor-
mons are to believe in 'Joe Smith.'"  "He was
only a money digger." "Not much of a proph-
et; I should think he's very ignorant, has no
education whatever." "Come from the back-
woods."
	One and another of the villagers gave an
opinion of Joseph Smith and the new religion,
while the Mormon Elders conversed apart very
solemnly, it appeared, and those who had come
to receive the ordinance of baptism waited
shivering and nervous with expectancy. In
the midst of it all a carriage drove up with a
span of fine horses, and there alighted
from it a middle aged lady and gentleman and
a beautiful young girl about eighteen, but
standing holding to her father's arm it was soon
observable she was lame, and the driver
reached from the carriage a pair of crutches.
The attention of all was quickly directed towards
this young lady. No one there seemed to know
who she was, as she had come from a neighbor-
ing town, and it was whispered from one to
another, if she is here to be baptised in that
frozen stream it will kill her. So after some
further consultation among the little knots of
lookers on, one of the gentlemen crossed over
<er tb="" !="" the="" othhr="" side,="" where="" carriage="" had="" i="" stopped,="" ind.="" said="" to="" tile="" cider="" lady,="" “js="" ihhvp'gp-i="" going="" into="" water="" to-day?”="" yes,="" ;="" sir!”‘vdry;="" emphatically.="" ‘“welft'js="" she="" vdfir="" dmighterj="" and'daro="" you="" allow="" her="" iiin="" such="" brisk?”-="" “shojs="" my="" daughter,="" and="" am="" not="" afraid;="" fqr="" she'="" i3="" be="" baptized="" for="" temigsiori="" of="" sins;”="" “madame,="" will="" excuse="" me,="" trust,="" but="" deliberately="" fake="" yhrir="" daughter’s:="" life="" in="" your="" hands;="" have="" warped="" you;="" hut="" d.o="" think="" this="" rell="" of'theaffair,.for="" ifa="" doubtfceriofis="" conseqlittlees="" lrill="" follow.’1="" .‘t="" aril="" lylll-ng="" leave="" h'er="" fhe="" harids="" heavenly="" rather="" arid="" he="" doetlrall="" thirigi?'="" well,”="" replied="" lady.="" -="" [="" r="" “="" 1="" by-this="" limb="" ‘opening="" thd="" stream="" was="" ready,="" audience="" assembled="" were'eager="" toee;what'="" re'ally="" transpire)="" on="" dctrisinq="" there="" another'scene="" ixiiic="" cl-="" nbte.d="" 'privately,="" which="" concerns="" ‘="" one="" of-'="" young="" ladies="" .waiting="" baptism.="" been="" talking="" friends="" that="" morning,="" ,confidcntaliy,.and="" through,="" advice="" decided="" .="" very="" morning.="" her.="" sisters="" already="" a="" member,="" little="" branch="" church="" vicinity,="" also="" an="" aunt="" cousin.="" confessed="" .again="" again="" knew="" mormonism="" wa?="" true,="" could="" scarcely="" subdue="" prido="" sufficiently="" go="" forward="" baptized,="" -knew="" when="" did="" so="" it="" wjis="" at="" sacrifice="" association="" all="" hpr-young="" companions.="" were="" two="" pqwerfuh="" infllittlees="" work="" with="" girl,="" jvas="" urging="" humble="" herself="" anil,go:into="" water?="" baptism,="" other="" alluripgjier="" follow="" fashion="" eqciety="" trio="" wofld.="" proud="" father="" .was,="" wealthy,="" noble="" hearted="" man="" his="" “my="" child,you.="" must="" act="" yourself="" iqatter,="" religion="" is="" something="" never="" troubled="" about,”="" mother="" indifferent;="" neither="" discouraged="" norencouraged="" her,="" nqither="" or="" present="" time.="" jshohesitatul="" indoubt="" wlien;she="" saw="" after-="" another="" .down="" ice="" cold="" water,="" finally.="" walked="" away,="" followed="" by="" friend="" whom="" reposed="" girlish="" confidence,="" entreated="" tell="" secret="" confided="" keeping.="" after,="" seven="" peqplediad="" elder="" officiating,="" lame="" girl="" water.="" threw="" down="" crutches="" water’s="" .edge,="" came="" forth="" from="" tliepwter="" begin="" new="" life,="" she.did="" tako="" them.,up="" again,="" needed="" them="" afterwards.="" crowd="" dispersed,="" some="" .of="" declaring,="" “it="" sham.”="" “bone="" elfect.”="" “a="" put="" up="" job,="" make="" believe="" mormons="" do="" miracles,’-="" on;="" soon="" truth="" spread="" far="" aud="" wide="" miss="" t-----had="" heeu="" healed="" lameness="" by.="" mormons,="" doctors="" had-given="" would="" walk="" rest="" life.-="" miracle,="" people="" frpm="" arid'="" near="" tojriqufre-concerning="" matter.="" .it="" manifestation="" .dfthoj.nomy="" godpn="" healing="" through="" faith,="" pud="" su.ch="" wc'shdyjld="" hear="" testimony="" sarah="" witnessed,="" this,="" her’="" heart="" grew="" hard="" determined="" sub-="" mit="" tljc="" imligfptics="" arid'slurp="" those="" re-="" ceived="" who="" pheed="" v="" gospel,="" ami="" turned="" away="" jjecahib.tliliened="" fu="" mind="" unhappy.’="" riot="" b="" want="" you.="" iqve;="" with,="" one.of="" the,mormon="" missionaries,’="" this,.wap="" h’er="" secret,="" '="" sjie="" confined="" ypqng="" friend.="" $hd="" kriew'thp.="" gospel="" ft="" up,="" fell="" nioro="" than="" courage,="" endure="" to,="" pome="" out.="" world="" alone..="" if="" sire="" si="" dmtly="" loved="" had'offered="" share="" fate,="" .said,="" henceforth="" your'="" protector="" lean="" upon="" yould="" ventured,="" abno="" not.="" br="" expressed="" her$tjf="" 'it="" oftri="" tljecase="" ftvifh="" these="" 'coinage="" tjq.stand’.alorie,="" they="" jose="" the.very="" bfessing="" tley="" desire="" mest="" obtain.="" sarpic.="" no="" doubt="" bad="" thnt="" dgy="" .obeyed="" call,="" voice="" the.="" spirjt="" 'ifntohqr,grid’="" identified="" interests="" latter-day="" sjftn="" ehe="" wopld="" eventu-="" ally-have'married="" tlip="" intensely="" lrived,="" sons="" daughters<="" div="">to the other side, where the carriage had
stopped, and said to the elder lady, "Is the
lame girl going into the water to-day?" "Yes,
sir!" very emphatically. "Well, is she your
daughter, and dare you allow her to run such
a risk?" "She is my daughter, and I am not
afraid, for she is going to be baptized for the
remission of her sins." "Madame, you will
excuse me, I trust, but you deliberately take
your daughter's life in your hands; I have
warned you, but I do not think this will be the
end of the affair, for I have no doubt serious
consequences will follow." "I am willing to
leave her in the hands of her Heavenly Father
and He doeth all things well," replied the
lady.
	By this time the opening in the stream was
ready, and the audience assembled were eager
to see what was really to transpire. But on
this occasion there was another scene being en-
acted privately, which concerns one of the

[Column 2]

young ladies waiting there for baptism. She
had been talking to one of her young friends
that morning confidentally, and through her
advice had decided to be baptized that very
morning. One of her sisters was already a
member of the little branch of the Church in
that vicinity, and also an aunt and cousin. She
had confessed again and again that she knew
Mormonism was true, but she could scarcely
subdue her pride sufficiently to go forward and
be baptized, for she knew that when she did
so it was at the sacrifice of the association
of all her young companions. There were two
powerful influences at work with this young
girl, one was urging her forward to humble
herself and go into the waters of baptism, and
the other alluring her to follow the fashion and
society of the world. She was very proud
and her father was wealthy, but he was a noble
hearted man and had said to his daughter,
"My child, you must act for yourself in this
matter, religion is something I have never
troubled about." The mother was indifferent;
she neither discouraged nor encouraged her,
and neither father or mother were present at
this time.
	She hesitated and was in doubt when she saw
one after another go down into the ice cold
water, and finally walked away, followed by
her young friend in whom she had reposed her
girlish confidence, and entreated her never to
tell the secret she had confided to her keeping.
After seven people had been baptized by the
Elder officiating, the lame girl walked into the
water. She threw down her crutches at the
water's edge, and when she came forth from
the water to begin a new life, she did not take
them up again, and she never needed them
afterwards. The crowd dispersed, some of
them declaring, "It was a sham." "Done for
effect." "A put up job, to make believe the
Mormons could do miracles," and so on; but
soon the truth spread far and wide that Miss
T--- had been healed of her lameness by the
Mormons, after the doctors had given her up
and said she would have to walk with crutches
all the rest of her life.
	It was a miracle, and people came from far
and near to inquire concerning the matter. It
was a manifestation of the power of God in
healing through faith, and of such we should
bear testimony. Sarah witnessed this, but her
heart grew hard and she determined not to sub-
mit to the indignities and slurs that those re-
ceived who obeyed the Gospel, and so she
turned away and became darkened in her mind
and very unhappy. But this is not all I want
to tell you. She was in love; and with one of
the Mormon missionaries, and this was her
secret, which she had confided to her young
friend. She knew the Gospel was true, but
she felt it was more than she had courage to
endure to come out from the world alone. If
he whom she so ardently loved had offered to
share her fate, or had said, henceforth I will
be your protector, lean upon me, she would
have ventured, but alone she could not, or so
she expressed herself to her young friend.
	It is often the case with those who have not
courage to stand alone, that they lose the very
blessing they desire most to obtain. So it was
with Sarah. There is no doubt but if she had
on that day obeyed the call, the voice of
the Spirit unto her, and identified her interests
with the Latter-day Saints she would eventu-
ally have married the man she so intensely
loved, and would have had sons and daughters


to bless her in her old age. But she chose for
herself and failed utterly. She often referred
to the circumstance during the following spring
and summer, and spoke of the young mission-
ary with the greatest reverence and tenderness.
"If I could only have had the least token from
him," she would say, "that would have decided
me; but alone I could not; no, I could not! I
know it was very wrong, but I must suffer all
my life, now!" and she would reason like this:
"If I had been baptized and he had left here
and given me no recognition of affection, I
should have been still more unhappy; for when
we met again it would have been as strangers,
and my life would have been an empty one;
my heart would never have been satisfied.
Here, where I never shall see him again,
nor hear of him, either, after the little branch
has moved west, I may outgrow this sentiment
and marry some day, perhaps, when I am tired
of myself and need some one to take care of
me."
	It was the fatal mistake of Sarah's life.
Afterwards she settled down to humdrum oc-
cupations, and only made herself useful by go-
ing among her relatives and assisting them
with nursing or household duties, when there
was extra care in the family. She became
dissatisfied with life, a very misanthrope, and
subsequently a man-hater, and to-day she is
lonely, and passes her time in knitting, assist-
ing at fairs and church festivals, and I often
wonder if she has forgotten the handsome
"Mormon Elder" with whom she was so much
in love. Perchance when she sits in a dreamy
reverie before her lonely hearth, she glances
back to the little village where she heard the
sound of the everlasting Gospel, and sees again,
as I can see it now, the group of people gath-
ered at the edge of the frozen stream, and the
magnificent figure of the young man as he of-
ficiated in that holy ordinance, and no doubt
she can hear the echo of his words so full of
pathos,
	"Sarah, come, now, I am ready to baptize
you," but she turned away and left him stand-
ing in the water waiting for her, when her
heart said yes!—And this is why one of the
seven became an old maid.
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued

	"Until after I had spoken I knew not what
they intended to do with me, whether to kill
me, or to whip me, or what else, I knew not. I
bore my abuse with so much resignation and
meekness, that it appeared to astound the mul-
titude, who permitted me to retire in silence;
many looking very solemn, their sympathies
having been touched, as I thought. And as to
myself, I was so filled with the Spirit and love
of God that I had no hatred toward my perse-
cutors, or any one else."
	After father had been tarred and feathered,
a man raised a whip to finish up by thrashing
him, when another, more humane, laid hold of
his arm saying he had done enough.
	"Charles Allen was next stripped and tarred
and feathered, because he would not agree to
leave the country or deny the Book of Mor-
mon. Others were brought up to be served in
the same way, or whipped, but for some cause
the mob ceased operations and adjourned until
Tuesday, 23rd; Elder Gilbert, the keeper of the
store, sgreed to close that, and that may have
been the reason why the work of destruction
was suddenly stopped for two days. In the
course of this day's wicked, outrageous and un-
lawful proceedings many solemn realities of
human degradation, as well as thrilling inci-
dents, were presented to the Saints, An armed

[Column 2]

and well organized mob in a government pro-
fessing to be governed by law, with the Lieu-
tenant Governor (Lilburn W. Boggs), the
second officer in the State, calmly looking on
and secretly aiding every movement, saying to
the Saints, "You now know what our Jackson
boys can do, and you must leave the country,
etc." And when Bishop Partridge, who was
without guile, and Elder Charles Allen walked
off amid the horrid yells of an infuriated mob,
coated like some unnamed, anknown biped;and
one of the sisters cried aloud, "While you,who
have done this wicked deed, must suffer the
vengeance of God, they, having endured per-
secution, can rejoice, for henceforth for them is
laid up a crown eternal in the heavens." Sure-
ly there was a time of awful reflection, that
man, unrestrained like the brute beast, may
torment the body; but God in return will pun-
ish the soul."
	The history continues, "After the mob had
ceased yelling and retired, and while evening
was spreading her dark mantle over the un-
blushing scenery, as if to hide it from the gaze
of day, men, women and children, who had
been driven or frightened from their homes by
the yells and threats of the mob, began to re-
turn from their hiding places in thickets and
cornfields, woods and groves, and view with
heavy hearts the scene of desolation and woe.
And while they mourned over fallen man, they
rejoiced with joy unspeakabe that they were ac-
counted worthy to suffer in the glorious cause
of their Divine Maker."
	"There lay the printing office a heap of ruins,
Elder Phelps' furniture strewed over the
ground as common plunder, the revelations,
book works, papers and press in the hands of
the mob as the booty of highwaay robbers.
There was Bishop Partridge in the midst of his
family, with a few of his friends, endeavoring
to scrape off the tar, which, from the way it ate
his flesh, seemed to have been prepared with
lime, pearlash, acid, or some flesh-eating com-
modity to destroy him. And there was Charles
Allen in the same awful condition."
	As the heart sickens at the recital,how much
more at the picture! More than once these
people in this boasted land of liberty were
brought into jeopardy, or threatened with ex-
pulsion or death because they wished to wor-
ship God according to the revelations of heav-
en, the Constitution of their country and the
dictates of their own conscience. O Liberty!
how thou art fallen! Alas! Clergymen, where
is thy charity? In the smoke that ascendeth
forever and ever.
	Early in the morning of the 23rd of July
the mob again assembled, armed with weapons
of war, and bearing a red flag, whereupon the
Elders, led by the Spirit of God, and in order
to save lives and stop the effusion of blood, en-
tered into a treaty with the mobbers to leave
the county in a certain time, etc. The execu-
tion of this treaty prevented an opportunity
for the brethren in Zion to confer with the
Presidency in Kirtland concerning their inten-
tion, which they improved by despatching El-
der O. Cowdery a special messenger after a de-
lay of three days. After word had been re-
ceived from Kirtland the brethren began to
write letters and petition the Governor of Mis-
souri to look into their grievances and vindicate
their cause.
	Communication between Zion and Kirtland
was uncertain, as the mob intercepted the let-
ters sent back and forth. Lawyers Wood,
Rose, Doniphan and Atchison were secured by
the brethren giving their note of one thousand
dollars. This so enraged the mob that no soon-
er had the news spread among them than they
began to congregate and prepare for battle.
Father and some other of the brethren offered
themselves a ransom for the Church, willing to
be scourged or die if that would appease their
anger toward the Church. But the mob

[Column 3]

assured them that every man, woman and
child would be whipped and scourged in some
way until the Mormons were driven from the
county, or die if they remained.
	"Tuesday night, the 31st of October, gave
the Saints in Zion abundant proof that no
pledge, written or verbal, was longer to be re-
garded; for on that night between forty and fif-
ty, many of whom were armed with guns, pro-
ceeded against a branch of the Church west of
Big Blue, and unroofed and partly demolished
ten dwelling houses; and in the midst of shrieks
and screams of women and children, whipped
and beat in a savage and brutal manner sever-
al of the men; and with their horrid threats
frightened women and children into the wilder-
ness. Such of the men as could escape fled for
their lives, for very few of them had arms, nei-
ther were they embodied, and they were threat-
ened with death if they made any resistance.
Such, therefore, that could not escape by flight
received a pelting by rocks and a beating with
guns and sticks, etc."
	'On Friday, the 1st of Nov., women and
children rallied forth from their gloomy retreat
to contemplate with heart-rending anguish the
ravages of a ruthless mob in the mangled bodies
of their husbands, and in the destruction of
some of their houses and furniture, Houseless
and unprotected by the arm of the civil law in
Jackson Co., with the dreary month of No-
vember staring them in the face, and loudly
proclaiming an inclement season at hand. The
continued threats of the mob that they would
drive out every Mormon from the county, and
the inability of many to remove because of
their poverty, caused an anguish of heart indes-
cribable."


GOOD TIME AT TOQUERVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Thinking a few lines from Toquerville would
not come amiss, we take pleasues in writing.
Our Relief Society is trying to keep along
with the rest of the societies as near as possible,
with a good spirit and feeling at least.  We
hold our testimonial and teacher's meetings
monthly, and our working meetings every two
weeks. We have very good meetings.
     On the 10th of Nov. we, with the Young
Ladies' Association, and our brethren, spent a
very agreeable evening in honor of Sister
Elizabeth Klienman, previous to her departure
for Arizona, she having been our First Coun-
selor in the Relief Society.  She is a faithful,
noble-minded sister, and is much beloved by
all associated with her.  She was one of the
early pioneers into Salt Lake Valley
     We met at the hall at 7 p.m.  We had sing-
ing, and then prayer by Bro. Geo. Spilsbury,
after which we had songs, recitations, dancing,
singing by the ward choir, led by Bro. John
Batty, and also by the Sunday School choir,
led by our Bishop, William A. Bringhurst, also
speeches, and we must not forget to mention
that Bro. Samuel Richards spent part of the
evening with us and made an excellent speech.
We had a bounteous supply of refreshments.
Toward the close Sister Klienman addressed us,
wishing us prosperity, and thanking us for the
love and respect that was shown her.  It was
an evening long to be remembered.  We re-
main, your sisters in the true and everlasting
covenant,
SELINDA D. BRINGHURST, Prest R.S.,
ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.,
MARY LAMB, Ass't Sec.


"Miss E.B. Johnson of Washington has in the
Dec. number of the Magazine of Americam
History the first of a series of illustrated pa-
pers entitled "Historical Portraits," the first
being devoted to the Huntington Collection of
Americans."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A NEW YEAR’S REVERIE AND
			DREAM.

I sat by my hearth; in the coals’ glowing red
Strange pictures arose like a spell;
Now in beauty they glowed, now in vapors they fled,
	Figures strange, that no language could tell;
The room was close curtained, the fire shone bright,
	Tick, tick, flew the moments away—
I turned in my chair from the lamp’s mellow light.
	And sat watching the shadows at play.

Long I sat there half dozing and yet half awake—
	One, two, rang the solemn old clock,
And the voice of the wind seemed the moan of a lake
	When the storm throws its waves on the rock.
Then the shadows that played on the wall turned to
		trees,
	The moon through the curtain shone in,
And the sweet song of birds floated faint on the breeze,
	Like the breath of a vesper hymn.

Then like a forest tall masts rose to view,
	Flags flattered, of many far lands,
And the soft splashing waves brought bright treasures
		to strew
	At my feet, on the white shining sands—
And I watched once again, as in days that are past,
	The sunset illumine with gold
The sky overhead, and the waves rolling past
	Over gems, over depths dark and cold.

But a hand held my own, that was true, that was
		warm,
	And no omen of trouble was there,
As I looked in her face, like a saints’, while her form
	Seemed clothed in the radiant air.
'Twas a vision of truth, that the years have fulfilled.
	For I stand on eternity’s beach;
I could hear, I could sec, if the tumult were stilled,
	The voice and the hand that doth reach.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Then I rode through the odorous avenues where
	The rose and the orange tree twined;
O! all life was abloom!  for another was there,
	And his love and his smile they were mine,
And he leaned, as we rode 'neath the wide spreading
		tree,
	And gathered the bloom laden sprays
To wreathe into garlands.  O memory! these
	Were brightest of far away days.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Did the embers fall down! Did the wind Bhake the
		sash?
	For I started, as one from a dream;
And the vision was changed, and leaped like a flash
	The future, ’neath prophecy’s beam.
Lo, the old years had gone, and the new in their place
	Brought a bliss that the past never knew—
For the Mourner and Comforter met face to face
	And the promise lie gave them was true.

And I learned, as I gazed on the mystical throng,
	Of the truths in our earth lives concealed,
That we pass, seeing not; and I heard the sweet song
	To the soul of the faithful revealed.
Pass onward ye years—ye are bearing us there—
	To a blest immortality’s height;
To wake, weeping, no more, in our lonely despair,
	From the dreams of an earth-weary night.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
December 26, 1884.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On Monday 31st, Horace wrote: “To-night,
about ten o’clock, we were routed from our
beds by the cry of, “All hands repair to the
center of the camp;” which was done, when the
men were sent back after their guns, etc., and
then Brother Kimball proceeded to tell them
the object of their coming together.  It appears
that a rumor that troops were on their way
there to arrest the Twelve had come to camp—
that they had crossed the river somewhere
down in the settlements, and were on their way
here, therefore it was thought necessary for
every man to be properly armed and equipped,
and that a guard should be kept up nights to
keep all spies from going to and from the
camp.  These things being attended to, and
every man told to arm himself to obey the
orders of the foreman of the division to which
he belonged, the meeting was dismissed."
     They had received this news through the
medium of Mr. Sarpee, who was living in the
village.
	“Tuesday, 22nd.  This morning, at ten
o’clock, the men in the camp were all requested
to meet at the Springs in the valley below our
camp.  President Young then addressed them
and told them the object of our coming to-
gether, which was to organize ourselves into
companies for self-defense.  A vote was taken,
whether we should retain the old officers of the
Nauvoo Legion as captains of companies, etc.,
or choose new ones.  The vote was unanimous
in favor of the former proposition. Brother
Kimball’s boys and myself attached ourselves
to the company of artillery under Captain
Jacobs.  A vote was finally taken whether we
should remove immediately to our winter quar-
ters, as affording us a better place for conveni-
ency and self-defense. It was decided in the
affirmative, and that we commence to remove
to-morrow—one division at a time, the breth-
ren assisting each other in so doing.  The com-
panies were dismissed into the hands of their
respective officers, with the caution to be on
the alert, and ready at a moment’s warning to
be called out by night and by day as occasion
may require.  The captains dismissed their com-
panies with the same admonition.”
	“Wednesday, 23rd.  Being misty to-day,
rather inauspicious for our removal: A num-
ber of the brethren with teams came to our
assistance, and we arrived at our winter
quarters about 1 o’clock p.m., which is three
miles from Cutler’s Park.  We are located on
the second shelf of the river bottoms, which is
laid out in the form of a city, five acres in each
block, consisting of twenty lots.  The city, as
laid out, occupies, or takes in, from 6 to 800
acres of ground.	*	*	*	*	* 
This evening Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler
arrived from Nauvoo.  They have been six
days coming from that place.  They came in
a buggy.  One object of their coming is to get
teams to send back for the poor brethren, who
are not able to come without assistance.”
	They brought considerable news, and next
morning came to our tent and remained for an
hour or more, telling the particulars of the
late battle between 100 of our brethren and
1000 of the mob who came to attack the city,
and were kept at bay by the little force, who
compelled them to retreat, with considerable
loss, as supposed, although the mob wonld not
acknowledge the loss of a man.  There were
three killed on the brethren’s side and three
wounded.  The action lasted an hour and
twenty minutes, and took place between Win-
chester street and Spuire Wells’ house—in the
neighborhood, where my father had built his
first house.  The place was then called Com-
merce.  The mob had six cannons, besides their
small arms; the brethren five cannons.  Presi-
dent Young, my father and a number of the
Twelve, and some others were present at our
tent to hear him relate the affair, after which
Dr. Richards read the articles of the capitula-
tion of the City of Nauvoo, which took place
on the 17th inst.
	The next day Horace wrote: “Council held
to-day near Brother Taylor’s tent. Squire
Wells related to the people the circumstances
that lately transpired at Nauvoo, and said that
there were a great many brethren in very indi-
gent circumstances, who would not be able to
come away without assistance.  Consequently
the council determined to raise teams and send
back for them—it was thought advisable, first,
to get all the teams they could of those who
had built houses on the other side of the river,
at Mount Pisgah and Garden Grove, because
they being, in a great measure, prepared for
the winter, could better spare their teams than
we who have not yet built a single house, ex-
cept the one that Brother Kimball brought
down from Cutler’s Park.”
	Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler started on the
28th.  On the first of October Horace men-
tions going with several of the boys haying,
and the same evening he played the violin at
a party held at his father’s tent, on the aniver-
sary of his little sister Maria’s birthday.
	On the 3rd he says: “Brother Lathrop and
another brother arrived here from Miller’s
camp; they had been stripped of nearly all
they possessed, and moved away from Bishop
Miller's, some distance, when they had con-
cluded to come down here, supposing it to be
only thirty miles—they traveled six days, and
arrived here at last, having nothing to eat dur-
ing that time,except a wild goose, a rabbit and a
turtle that they killed on their route.” He
speaks also of the band meeting that evening,
or part of them, and says, “I joined them and
played with them.  I am to play the instru-
ment (flute) formerly used by Andrew Cahoon,
who expects to start shortly for England;”
also of experiencing a very severe frost that
night, for the first time that season.  We had
had considerable rainy, windy and disagreeable
weather.  A few days after our removal the
wind was so severe that our tent and a nnmber
of others were blown to the ground.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Go into a printing office, and find whether
the women who set type are paid as much as
the men. The work is paid by the piece, so
much for setting up so many thousand ems of
type; and each type-setter has to correct his or
her mistakes gratis. Thus if one type-setter
can set faster and more accurately than
another, he will earn more, provided he and
the other type-setter are of the same sex. But
the man and the woman are not paid at the
same rate by the piece. He gets say 35 cents
per thousand ems, and she 25 cents per
thousand. She may be an experienced setter,
and he a boy just learning; she may have her-
self and a half a dozen young sisters to sup-
port, and he may be living at home with his
parents, and supporting nobody; but he is paid
at a higher rate by virtue of his sex. He
would feel wronged if it were otherwise.—Ex.
	In the last New Zealand Constitution provis-
ion is made for the appointment, as Cabinet
Ministers, of two Maoris, if the Prime Minis-
ter thinks fit to make use of their services, al-
lotting to each a salary of $2,000. The Legis-
lative Council, the upper Chamber of the Colo-
ny, whose members are appointed by the Crown
for life, must have two Maori members in its
total of forty-five. The law prescribes that of
the ninety-five who make up the House of Re-
presentatives four must be representatives of
Maori constituencies. These need not be
Maoris, and there have been instances of a
Maori constituency returning white representa-
tives, but almost invariably the Marois sent up
representatives of their own race. The Maoris
residing in other than purely native districts
enjoy the right to vote in common with the
white population, the qualification for them be-
ing a $125 freehold, held individually under
Crown title or enrollment on the ratepayer roll.
The number of Maoris on the register on one
or the other of these qualifications amounts to
about a thousand. In the native constituen-
cies no registration is needed—the right of
voting is accorded to every adult of the native
race residing in the district.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Ofiice, Room No. 4, up stairs; Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1885


[Column 1]

WELCOME 1885!

	A Happy New Year to all our readers, patrons
and friends! The beginning of a year is always
fraught with sentimental feelings. We have
just bid farewell to the old year, and there is a
sort of sadness in the very fancy of parting, but
the new year brings anticipation and sublime
resolves, and the influence of the desire to do
better, to aim higher, to live nearer to God,
buoys one up and makes glad the dawn of the
the new year. The division of time is most
wisely arranged, and the effect upon the human
soul is inspirational. There is a time for all
things, said the preacher, and if men were wise
and judicious in the matter of time no doubt
there would be. It is mortals who fall so far
short, and not the great Dispenser of times and
seasons and the over-ruler of all things.
	It may seem to some of this people that the
new year has dawned darkly for the Saints, but
the old syaing, "It is always darkest just before
the dawn," will prove true in this instance, as it
has in hundreds of others in which the Latter-
day Saints were concerned; the clouds that now
obscure the horizon and darken the homes of
faithful followers of Jesus, will roll by, and the
sunshine of prosperity will lighten their pathway,
for God reigns, and He will be acknowledged in
the earth in the deliverance of His people from
bondage. Have the Saints any reason to
fear those who are keeping the commandments
given them to observe? No; but they have
every reason to believe there will be a blessing
in the bitter cup now poured out for them to
drink. And it may be that those who are so
anxious to bring trouble and sorrow upon an in-
offensive people, will drain the dregs of the bit-
ter potion which the Saints will only taste.
	It is well to remember in all trials,
		"That the sun shines out the brighter
		When the stormy tempest clears."
But however dark the hours may seem, this is
a time for great joy in the hearts of common hu-
manity, for there are many things all have to be
thankful for. When earthquakes and cyclones,
famine and war and dire distress in different
parts of the earth are so frequent, those who
are living in a land where peace, prosperity,
plenty and health abound, have certainly abun-
dant cause for rejoicing and being thankful for
those munificent gifts bestowed by a divine
Providence.
	"There is a bright future in store for the Saint
however much they may have to pass through
in the meantime, for the kingdom which Daniel
saw is commenced in the earth and all nations,
will yet see and acknowledge that the little
stonecut cut of the mountains will become a
mighty power in the midst of the earth. No
thinking person can look upon Utah to-day with
the natural resources it possesses, and the indus-

[Column 2]

try and thrift so creditably represented in these
valleys, without realizing, to some extent, that
in the near future there will be such growth
and development among the people in trade,
manufactures, art, science and literature, and in
everything that will make a country wealthy
and powerful, that Utah, through her sons and
daughters,will gain a name and place that must
be recognized even by her enemies. The youth
of Zion have the ability to accomplish great
things. They have the physical organization
which denotes strength, courage, firmness and
force; with these characteristics combined with
strength of intellect, and the mind and the
heart properly cultivated, and every faculty
carefully adjusted, by means of wise and ju-
dicious training, what may not be expected in
the next few years. Greece was not prouder of
her sons than "Mormon" parents are to day of 
their sons and daughters born in these mountain
vales and fast[---]. They have inhaled the
breath of freedom from their birth, and their
fathers and mothers have felt that.
		"The greatest glory of a free born people
		Is to transmit that freedom to their children."
	There are a class of people who have come
here on purpose to take from the original settlers
and rightful possessors, their dear bought rights,
to rob them of every semblance of freedom and
and after having sought to deprive the parents
of every vestige of liberty, prate of freedom to
their children, telling them to shake off the
shackles that bind them. In the words of the
glorious Milton,
		"They bawl for freedom in their senseless moods,
		And still revolt when truth would set them free,
		License they mean, when they cry liberty."
	Such are the men who call out so loudly from
the pulpit and the platform to the young "Mor-
mons," to declare themselves and break away
from the superstitions of their fathers; but they
cry in vain, for though they may influence here
and there one to renounce the faith for which
their parents have endured so much, the major-
ity will remain faithful and will attain to great-
ness, and eventually become a mighty nation,
and all eyes will be turned to Zion, for her fame
will have reached to the ends of the earth.
Therefore, especially for the youth of this peo-
ple, should every year dawn with bright hopes
and high resolves to make a record that shall be
worthy the noble ambition of men and women
who are striving for the highest prize that is in
store, and for a name that is imperishable and
an inheritance that is undefiled. They who
would possess these inestimable blessings have
no time to listen to these boasters of freedom;
let them howl, "Let the heathen rage and the
people imagine a vain thing," those who fear
God and keep His commandments have every-
thing to hope for and nothing to fear.


HOME AFFAIRS

	The Office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
removed to the Hooper and Eldredge Block, Main
Street, just a few doors south of Z. C. M. I., up
stairs, in room No. 4.
	The merchants, coal-dealers and men in busi-
ness have been liberal to the poor during the
holiday time, and much has been distributed by
the Bishops and the Relief Society through the
city. The weather has been favorable for those
who have been short of fuel, and it is ardently
to be hoped that no one has suffered.  There is
certainly no need of any real suffering while the
granaries and barns are filled with grain, and
the cattle abound "upon a thousand hills."
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held as per appointment in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Friday, the
26th of Dec., Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.


The meeting was well attended considering the
season of the year and the inclemency of the
weather. Reports were heard from nearly all
the branches of the Relief Society, and much
valuable instruction was given, and many noble
sentiments expressed. The Primary Associa-
tions held their conference the next morning,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding, which was
well attended, and in the afternoon the Y. L.
M. I. A. held theirs, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Brief minutes of each of these meetings
will appear in our next issue.
	Primary meeting, held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms, Nov. 13th, 1884. Mrs. Lydia
Ann Wells presiding. Bishop M. Atwood and
Counselors present, also Prest. Ellen C. Clawson,
Prest. Rachel R. Grant and Sister R. C. Atwood.
After the usual opening exercises the minutes
were read and accepted; then Pres. Wells excused
herself from giving the address she was appoint-
ed to give on account of the length of the pro-
gramme, and wishing to hear remarks from the
visitors. The programme was carried out as fol-
lows: Bernies Johnson, Recitation; Lillie Burt,
Song; Lottie D. Goforth, Recitation; May B.
Bythe, Select Reading; Lide Stromburg, Song;
Meta Peterson and Maude Andersen, Dialogue;
Annie Stromburg, Organ Solo; Malcolm Batler,
Select Reading; Bible Questions asked, and
answered by the children.
	Sister Clawson gave some excellent advice, also
Sister Atwood made some remarks calculated
to encourage, and was followed by the Bishop,
who spoke upon the order of organizing Primary
Associations, and gave fatherly advice. His re-
marks were excellent.
	Counselor N. M. Empy made some good re-
marks, after which the resignation of Miss Mary
Ann Hanks was presented and accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful and
diligent labors in the Association for several
years past.
	The organization not having been entirely
complete since the resignation of Miss Georgie
Spencer, last spring, Mrs. Susan Stringam was
appointed as First Counselor to the President,
Miss Kate Wells as Second Counselor and Miss
Annie Thomas as as Assistant Counselor. These
sisters were elected by unamimous vote. Miss
Matilda Mortenson was appointed to the office
of Secretary and Miss Nellie Goddard as Assist-
ant Secretary. These nominations were also
sustained by vote. The officers were then set
apart by the Bishop and his Counselors, after
which the programme was read for the next
meeting. Singing, "Love at Home." Benedic-
tion by Counselor Francis Platte.


REVIEW OF BOOKS.

	We have received from the Juvenile Instruc-
tor office the pamphlet, "The Tennessee Mas-
sacre and its Causes, or the Utah conspiracy."
A lecture by Elder John Nicholson, delivered in
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday, September
22nd, 1884, and stenographically reported by John
Irvine. For Sale at Juvenile Instructor Office,
price, 10 cts. It contains a complete narrative
of the tragedy, and of the attitude of our ene-
mies, the political ring in Utah, with extracts
from the Salt Lake Tribune, and some criminal
statistics, showing who are the law-breakers
here. Taken altogether the lecture is a very
able setting forth of things that have transpired
here recently, all of which, through the press
and the representations of men in office and the
anti-polygamy party generally, including
priests and parsons, have had their bearing upon
the people outside, and those that are unacquaint-
ed with their real life no doubt, by means of
these malicious statements, imagine the Mor-
mons to be something very dreadful; too wicked
to live on the earth.


Another pamphlet of 80 pages, published and
for sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office for 10
cts. per copy, is an adddress delivered in
the Twelfth Ward Assembly Hall, Salt Lake
City, October 16th, 1884, by Elder Charles W.
Penrose. It is entitled, "The Mountain Mea-
dows Massacre." The subject is fully discussed,
and important documents, some of them official
ones, bearing upon the matter, are published
and properly authenticated. It is a book that
ought to have a wide circulation, for the sub-
ject has been handled in the most clumsy man-
ner by many—and the blame of the whole
transaction attributed to the leaders of the
"Mormon" Church. The speaker has shown
plainly that there is nothing to substantiate
such a statement at all, and that Brigham
Young and his associates in office were complete-
ly vindicated by the testimony of John D Lee,
and the statements of reliable men, both Gen-
tiles as well as Mormons. Every body should
read the book for themselves, and scatter copies
of it abroad wherever they may have an oppor-
tunity.
	"Picture Album and Story Book," is a new
book for the children, issued from the Juvenile
Instructor Office. It contains thirty pictures,
very interesting ones, with the description on
the opposite page. It is a new idea, and a very
pretty one, and will certainly be a pleasure to
the little folks, who are always delighted with
pictures. Price, 25 cts.
	The magazine, "Life and Home," has taken
a new title. It is very well adapted for home
reading, and is a useful addition to our home
literature.
	The Academic Review, published in Provo by
the Polysophical Society of the Brigham Young
Academy contains much useful informa-
tion. It is a neat little pamphlet published
eight times during the academic year. It is
quite a pleasing enterprise, and very creditable
to the young people.
	We have received "Choice Literature," a
monthly magazine, published in New York. It
contains an assortment of reading matter in the
form of essays, sketches, biographies, descrip-
tive articles, etc., and seems to be very ably
edited.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"A HAPPY NEW YEAR."

	To be happy let us make new resolves, and as
the old year is going out and the new one com-
ing in, let us do better in the future than we
have in the past. Forsake all evil and every-
thing that has a tendency to lead us from our
Heavenly Father. If we have not been true to
our covenants, to our neighbors, or to ourselves,
let us make retribution as far as lies in our pow-
er; let us become a delightsome people in the
eyes of the Lord, that He will pour out His
blessing upon us, and make Zion the joy of the
whole earth; that her people may be a holy peo-
ple, for Zion is the pure in heart; that upon all
her assemblies and dwelling places shall be
written, "Holiness to the Lord." And that a
pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night
shall be our protecting shield. "And it shall no
more be said, the Lord liveth that brought up
the Children of Israel out of the land of Egypt,
but the Lord liveth that brought up His people
from all parts whither He had scattered
them."
	The children of Ephraim had a mark set upon
them—they were to be known by their gray
hair and bald heads; his seed was mixed among
the Gentiles, and they were to be taken one of a
city and two of a family. Those are they of the
promised seed which the Gospel came to first;
they received the divine message, and are build-

[Column 2]

ing cities, towns, villages, houses and temples,
preparatory to the coming of our Savior.
	This is the work God has called the Latter-day
Saints to perform. And now, if the President
of the United States, governors, magistrates,
people, or individuals, will assist in this great
work they shall have their reward; for so said
our Savior: "If they give a disciple a drink of
cold water in my name, they shall have their re-
ward."
	The true and living God is a merciful being,
but He does all things in His own way. He
warns the inhabitants of the earth of coming
judgments, and has since the creation.
		God moves in a mysterious way
			His wonders to perform;
		He plants His footsteps in the sea,
			And rides upon the storm.
	But the way He has sent forth His proclama-
tions, and the obsecure individuals He has
chosen, mankind in general have become offend-
ed at, and have rejected his offers of mercy and
salvation, and by so doing they have been lost.
In the days of Noah they were swept away by
the flood, and as i[-] was the[--], so it shall be again;
The people on the earth now will not give heed
to His message: "Come out of her, my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins and receive
not of her plagues." The world at large is with-
out faith in God, as the only way to obtain it is
through revelation, and this they deny. How
could He warn His children without He sent
His messengers to them? And if they have no
confidence in a communication from Him, how
can they be moved by His word?
	Now, if the people of Nineveh had not be-
lieved in revelation they would all have been
destroyed; but they believed that Jonah had
spoken the word of the Lord to them, and in
consequence of this they repented and put on
sackcloth and sat in ashes, even the king. "The
Savior reproved the Jews for their unbelief and
held up the people of Nineveh as an example
and said to them, they repented at the preaching
of Jonah and a greater one than he was in their
midst." Their unbelief caused their overthrow,
"For therein is the righteousness of God revealed
from faith to faith; as it is written, the just shall
live by faith." Romans, 1st chapter 17th verse
Daniel would have been destroyed had he not
believed in revelation. Hear what he said to
the king: "But there is a God in heaven that
revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the
king, Nebuchadnezzar, what shall be in the lat-
ter days." Daniel, 2nd chapter, 28th verse.
After going on with the interpretation he says,
44th verse, "And in the days of these kings
shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which
shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms,
and it shall stand for ever." This is definite
language given by revelation, "And the dream
is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure."
Clause 45th verse.
	All these things concern everyone, and as
each year advances the end draweth nigh. Oh,
well, those who administer the law need not
concern themselves. Yea, the call is to you,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, and be
ye saved." Some say, if you believe in revela-
tion you add to John's book of revelation; we do
not add to his words, but we believe his words
will be fulfilled to the very letter, but if we did
not believe in revelation we would detract from
it, and our names be taken from the Book of
Life. "Blessed are they that do His command-
ments, that they may have right to the tree of
life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city." 22nd chapter, 14th verse. We will give
His own words to His disciples; "Go ye into all
the world, and preach the Gospel to every crea-
ture. He that believeth and is baptized shall

[Column 3]

be saved, but he that believeth not shall be
damned." "And these signs shall follow those
that believe," etc.
	Who has a right to change these command-
ments and make them read different, or say
these signs are no longer needed? We cannot
change the word of God without bringing con-
demnation upon us. Therefore the whole world
lieth in unbelief, and all are called upon to ac-
cept the truth as it is revealed in these last-
days. The kings and queens of the earth should
come up to Zion and bring their pleasant things
to beautify the sanctuary of the Lord of Hosts,
to make the place of His feet glorious.
	M. A. P.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1884.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dr. Ellia R. Ship was the recipient of a very
pleasant surprise party, on the occasion of the
expiration of the first term of her class in ob-
stetric, Saturday Dec. 20th. The lady expressed
herself as being completely surprised for once
in her life.
	The party was managed by the members of
the class. The time passed quickly and pleasant-
ly in social chat, songs, recitations, select read-
ing, essays, etc.
	During the evening a handsome album was
presented to Dr. Shipp, by one of the members,
in behalf of the class, to which she responded in
a few well chosen words of thanks. All then
adjourned to the dining room and partook of a
goodly array of vianda, spread upon the table
by those taking charge of that part of the pro-
gramme. The exercises closed by the reading
of the contents of a budget box, filled with origin-
al pieces, humorous, serious, and all ex-
pressive of the esteem in which the teacher is
held by the students.
	At twelve o'clock the party broke up, all ex-
pressing themselves satisfied with the success of
the undertaking, and each wishing the other a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	CACIUS.


OUR COUNTRY'S WRONGS.

My country, O my country!
	My heart it bleeds far thee;
Thy patriots have departed,
	Thy down-fall now we see.

	Fair Columbia! Heaven born boon of free-
dom, where hast thou fled? To the land of
spirits to look down and weep over your country's
wrongs? Look within the prison walls of Salt
Lake City and behold one that was born a legal
heir to the Constitution which guarantees to
every man the sacred right to worship God ac-
cording to the dictates of his own conscience.
Bid not Rudgar Clawson stand up nobly before
the court and claim marriage to a second wife
a religious right, by quoting that clause in the
Constitution, "Congress shall pass no law pro-
hibiting any man from the free exercise of re-
ligion?"
	In the name of truth and reason who has
violated this law, Rudgar Clawson, or Congress
that has passed laws prohibiting free born
American Citizens from the free exercise of re-
ligion?
	The Constitution of the United States was
given by inspiration, preparatory to the coming
forth of the Kingdom of God. Methinks I see
the veteran fathers, who shed their blood to be-
queathe to us that sacred, heaven-born boon,
liberty, taking notes of the proceedings of the
courts that have sentenced God's servants to
prison without an appeal; but there is an appeal


higher than the Supreme Court of the United
States, where angels and patriots will set on the
jury, God Himself being the Supreme Judge.
He is the God of the ancient apostles, Paul and
Silas, that could break down their prison walls.
He is the God of Esther, the queen, who, when
all her tribe was to be slain, called a fast of a
three day's fasting and prayer, although it was
death, by the law, to appear in the Inner court
of the kingdom without permission, she said, at
the close of the fast, "If I die I die," and went
and stood in the inner court of the king; and
God moved upon the heart of the king to say
these words, 'What is thy request Queen Esther?
If it be half of the kingdom it shall be granted
thee." Her request was to save her people and
hang Haman instead of Mordecai.
	Now, let all the daughters of Zion do likewise:
remember those brethren who are in prison, and
their families; proclaim their innoconce, and
call upon angels to bear record on earth and in
heaven of their unjust imprisonment and the
suffering of their sorrowing, injured families; it
is worse than death. The cries of those inno-
cent women and children will ascend up to God
against those who have violated the Constitution
and brought this sorrow and despair upon the
innccont.	WILLMIRTH EAST.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	The Seventeenth Annual Washington Con-
vention of the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held in Lincoln Hall, Washington,
D. C, January 20, 21 and 22, 1885. Public ses-
sions will be held at 2 and 7:30 p.m. on each of
these days; and executive sessions, open only to
officers and members of the Association, will be
held daily at 10:30 a.m. The afternoon meetings
will be devoted to State and Committee Reports,
to Letters and Discussions. The evening sessions
will be occupied with formal addresses.	*	*
	The principal object of this Association from
its organization has been to secure to the women
of the several States and Territories nations
protection in the citizen's right to vote, through
a sixteenth Amendment to the National Con-
stitution.	*	*	*	*
	Besides the Washington Convention, it is pro-
posed to hold a meeting in New Orleans, Janu-
ary 6 and 7. This is the first time that the Na-
tional Society has convened in a Gulf City; the
meeting will therefore be peculiarly important,
and while we hope for the co-operation of women
in that section, we must depend upon the gener-
ous contribution of members of the Association
for the pecuniary means necessary to the suc-
cessful execution of the plan. All members
and friends are therefore requested to send to
our Treasurer contributions for this purpose at
the earliest date possible, that the officers may
know the amount they are warranted in expend-
ing upon the New Orleans meeting. Some of
the most noted speakers will address the Con-
vention.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Prest. at Large,
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Chairman Ex. Com.
	N. B—Dues and contributions should be sent
at once to the Treasurer, Mrs. Jane H. Spofford.
Letters to be read at the Convention, and re-
ports of officers who cannot be present, must be
sent as early as January 15th to Miss Susan B.
Anthony, at the same address. Riggs House,
Washington, D. C.


[Column 1]

COLLEGE EVILS.

	"Yes, colleges are good things, and there is
much common sense about them, as there should
be. Young men, when they go to college, take

[Column 2]

a little common sense with them and they leave
it there; they leave it there."
	Such was the remark of a crusty, but very
level-headed old gentleman, after listening to a
glowing account of what colleges in the United
States were doing for its young men. The word
colleges is here used in a sense that embraces
all educational institutions above local acade-
mies. The presumption would probably hold
if colleges, the world over, were embraced
largely as being subject to the witty and scath-
ing remark of the crusty old gent above alluded
to. There is no doubt that many brilliant men
speak—by eventful and useful careers after
they have entered fairly wild the active battle
of life—volumes in behalf of what a college
education will do for a young man if he has
but the will and the judgment to seize the
good such a course offers him, and the deter-
mination to resist the temptations so closely as-
sociated with the good, that it often requires
the best balanced head to decide where the one
terminates and the other begins; for one
thoroughly educated man a college turns out,
averaging them all through, there are a dozen
numbskulls ground through, and full as many
young men unsettled and uufitted for life by
lack of discipline, and by the acquisition of vices
which, not only corrupt and waste them bodily,
but which totally undermine that true and
abiding love for moral instincts, without which
it is absolutely impossible to lead a correct
life.
	In addition to these, though bad enough,
though less penicious than other evils, is the
tendency of many institutions to the develop-
ment of effeminate tastes, desires and trains of
thought—as against the vigorous, manly and
noble instincts which alone fit man for life in
a world where man is strong, hasty and domi-
neering. This latter tendency is greatly true
of West Point, paradoxical though it may
seem, where the course and the instruction, if
not calculated to inculcate moral ideas, beyond
what is considered the honor of soldiers, is cer-
tainly as free from a tendency to effeminacy as
possible.
	A hop was given one evening when I was
visiting that lovely spot. The cadet, or those
who were to graduate that coming season, were
in the greatest demand. It disgusted me to the
soul to observe the number of sweet-faced lov-
ing and lovable, fair formed, tender looking
and true girls who would hang upon the arm,
look anxiously in the face of, and listen to the
interminable twaddle of any number of puny,
insignificant little whipper snappers, because
they happened to be cadets. They could talk
of nothing and about nothing but themselves;
the air, the tone, the gesturre, implied plainer
than all words could possibly express: "To
imagine anything more glorious than to be a
cadet, or to think it possible there should be
anything superior to me, is the measure of ab-
surdity." And I began to think so too, when I
saw how universally these same fair girls seemed
to accept the tacit proposition as one of heaven's
own truths, and noticed to what extent the
matrons and dames having them in charge gave
whatever force they could to maintain the pre-
vailing sentiment, by smirking, bowing, simper-
ing over, and manifesting deference to a horde
of kids they should have soundly punished and
sent to bed. One young fellow, said to be un-
usually bright and to stand well in his class,
addressed himself twice in my hearing; first, to
a lovely looking girl, and then to a simpering
dame, the mother of the girl, in the following
vein:
	"Oh, yes, I stand well in my class. Yes,
some of the boys" (meaning them) "cannot be
at the hop to-night, as they are laid up in the
hospital. They were hurt in the riding school.
Haven’t you heard of our class? Oh, ours is
going to be a famous cavalry class! why we are
already distinguished; dear, yes. That branch

[Column 3]

of service—the cavalry—is rapidly increasing.
I belong to it! The life of a cadet is very en-
viable. No, indeed, I don't wonder at you ad-
miring it; we all do; all the boys. We have
glorious times! Of course it is hard to keep up,
you know, we have to be very intelligent, but
then we admire it, and that, of course, is
enought." And so he went on with this inces-
sant chirping, and both mother and daughter
manifested a degree of tact and intelligence in
the variations with which they were paralyzed
and surprised with ecstacies of delight at the
frankness of this ingenuous youth, that would
have done honor to a creditable and brain re-
fining pursuit.
	And this, I am informed, is the topic of con-
versation of every, or nearly every cadet. No
wonder young lieutenants are not noted for their
remarkable intellects and great conversational
powers. No wonder that mere association with
one of them is sufficient forever to pulverize
the heart and tender fancies of a blushing
maiden. Yet the young fellows are not all to
blame. These match-making mothers trot
about after the body soldiers, deifying them,
forcing upon them a choice among any number
of priceless girls just budding into tenderest and
sweetest womanhood, whose angel faces betray
unconscious innocence; until the young men
get the notion that there exists nothing in flesh
and blood, made up in the divine form of
woman, that is not a condescension for them to
gaze upon with favor. This is the unparalleled
essence of vanity, or if it exists anywhere in
a more powerful degree than in West Point,
prevent me, heaven, from ever coming in con-
tact with it. If the dignity and the enduring
credit of the American army has to depend
upon such specimens of humanity, then save us,
heaven, for we are lost.
	There are many and notable exceptions to
what is said, fine, strapping young men that
one cannot help admiring, and whose counten-
ances show a power to resist evil and to look
forward to a more glorious future than is with-
in the mental ken of the wildest "army mash-
er;" but compared with the whole, there are few;
and, judging from what I have seen and heard,
if a community should be forced into a posi-
tion requiring prayer to be delivered from this
specimen of "army officer," or the "army
worm," for one I should pray that the "worm"
be allowed to remain.
	WANDERING BOY.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

WEBER STAKE.

	Thursday morning, Dec. 11, 1884, the Re-
lief Society conference convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle for two day's meeting, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. There were present sever-
al Bishops, and Coun. Middleton of the Presi-
dency of that Stake.
	After singing "Come all ye sons of Zion," etc.,
prayer was offered by Elder A. Smurthwaite,
singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray," minutes
of previous conference were read by Miss Newey.
Prest. J. S. Richards was the first speaker; she
referred to the Stake organization of the Re-
lief Society in Weber County as one of the
last works performed by the late Brigham
Young, and said they had been blessed in all
their labors since that time; spoke of her own
feelings in attempting to perform what Prest.
Young had instructed her to do, and that she
felt it was her duty to do all that he had placed
upon her to the best of her ability, and that
strength and courage had been given her from
time to time to carry out his wishes. She
praised the sisters for the noble part they had
taken in coming to her aid, and spoke of the
union, which had been so gratifying, and the
co-operation of the Bishops and brethren in
every good work the sisters had undertaken.


[Column 1]

Sister Mary Bird of Lynne represented the Re-
lief Society of that ward, and also bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, Sister
M. Bingham of the ward in which she presided,
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the
conference.
	Bishop P. G. Taylor made some commenda-
tory remarks, endorsing what had been said by
the sisters, after which Sister Mary Douglas
reported West Weber Relief Society, and con-
ference adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction by Bishop McQuarrie.
	Afternoon session: After singing prayer
was offered by Elder W. R. R. Stowell. The
speakers in the afternoon were Counselor H. C.
Brown, Prest. M. Shirtliff, East Harrisville,
Prest. M. A. Ellis, Second Ward Ogden, E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, Prest. C. F. Middle-
ton, Bishop R. McQuarrie, Bishop S. Bingham,
and Sister Ann Odell.
	Prest. Richards made some quite eloquent
remarks in regard to the desire she had to help
on the Latter day work, and commended the
sisters' liberality in giving of their means, and
especially for the generous donations made to
the Logan Temple and to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	Friday morning: Conference resumed its
session; after the usual exercises and a few words
from Prest. Richards, Sister Mary Hall,
Treasurer, reported the financial condition of
the Relief Society of the Stake. Brief ad-
dresses were then made by Elder Stowell, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith of Salt Lake City, Prest. S.
A. Herricks and Apostle F. D. Richards, and
he seemed inspired to speak in the most father-
ly way to the sisters who had assembled there
for instruction.
	The meeting in the afternoon was addressed
first by Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Prest. L.
R. Farr reported the Third Ward of Ogden;
Elder Wm. Butler made some remarks. Prest.
L. W. Shirtliff in his remarks spoke of his re-
cent visit to the east, and of visiting his mother's
grave in Nauvoo; alluded to the dilapidated
and ruinous condition of that once beautiful
city, and made some very excellent general re-
marks upon the society of the world, and
blessed the Relief Society.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke of the trials
the Saints were called upon to endure; said the
work was growing and the things now transpir-
ing are positive proof of it; thought there was
no occasion to fear the threats or menaces of
our enemies; exhorted all to prepare for the
promised coming of the Savior.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards made some very ap-
propriate remarks at the close of the confer-
ence; rejoiced in the testimonies that had been
borne during the two day's meetings, and prayed
for a blessing upon all.
     Singing, and then benediction pronounced by
Apostle Richards. Conference adjourned for
three months.

UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah County, held Nov. 28th, 1884,
Prest. Mary John presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, etc.
	Sister John said: "It is with peculiar feelings
that I stand before you to-day. Hitherto our
beloved President, if not with us, was where I
could counsel with her in all affairs pertaining
to our society in this Stake of Zion, but now I
stand alone, as it were, and I ask an interest
in your prayers that I may be strengthened,
and perform my duties satisfactorily. I will
now give way for the presidents of the county
to give in their reports.
	This took up most of the time in the fore-
noon. The Resolutions of Respect to the mem-
ory of our beloved President, Margaret T.
Smoot, were read, and after singing and prayer
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon, conference resumed its session:
Quite a number of the brethren were present.
Opened by singing and prayer. Sister John
said, we will proceed to business.
	Prest. A. O. Smoot said he was pleased to
see so many of the sisters present to represent
the several branches of the Relief Society of
Utah County. Understood it was the purpose
to fill the vacancy occasioned by the demise of
President Margaret T. Smoot, and as Sister
John had been nominated to fill that vacancy
he would call a vote of the conference to that
effect. The motion was carried unanimously.
Bro. Smoot said the position was an important
one. It is unnecessary to eulogize the works
of the sisters they speak for themselves. Spoke
of the aid the sisters had been in helping on
the work on the Stake Tabernacle by their dona-
tions, etc.
	Sister John then chose Sister Rhoda Lyman
as her first Counselor and Sister Emily G.
Cluff as her second Counselor.
	Sister John said: "I feel this a great responsi-
bility, but I will endeavor to do the best I can,
for I realize that this is the work of God, and
with your faith and prayers I feel I shall suc-
ceed."
	Sister Lyman said: "I feel to respond to
every call that is made upon me, and I ask
your faith and prayers that I may succeed."
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said: "I am willing to
respond to every call, and with your help I
will do the best I can."
	Bro. John spoke of the nomination of Sister
Anna K. Smoot for Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Utah Co., and called
for a vote of the conference to that effect,
which was carried. Bro. John said this office
was a very important and responsible one,
and it needs just such women as Sister Anna
K. Smoot to preside over these associations;
faithful, energetic and true Latter-day Saints,
etc. 
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball regretted that she
could not be with us at our last meeting; was
at the bedside of our dear Sister Smoot. "She
has passed away; we miss her, and shall miss
her for years to come, and while we are passing
away, one by one, it reminds us very forcibly
that earth is not our home," etc.
	Bro. H.H. Cluff thanked the sisters for the
very able manner in which they had responded
to his call for help for the new Tabernacle."
	Bro. John endorsed all that had been done.
Spoke of Ma Smoot as a wise counselor and a
woman of wisdom and knowledge; one that
had been associated with the leading members
of this Church, and we shall miss her much.
	Sister John said she felt that we had had a
feast to-day, and prayed God to bless us all.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Prest. Smoot.
	C. DANIELS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿ITEMS FROM CACHE COUNTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The women of Cache Co. are up and doing.
On Friday, the 5th of December, our Relief
Society Stake President, E. Bensen, with her
First Counselor, Lucy Cardon, started out to
visit the settlements north of Logan that had
not been already visited this year. She stayed
one night with her son, at Trenton, made an
appointment for Sunday afternoon, then went
on and met with the Relief Society at Clark-
ston.
	On Friday our Primary Stake President,
Jane Molen, with her First Counselor, Adeline
Barber, two other ladies and James, the boy
emigrated two years ago by the Cache Co.
Primaries, as driver, started to fill appointments
also north of Logan, reaching Clarkston, where,
after partaking of a comfortable supper, all
were invited to attend a choir party, where we

[Column 2]

met a kindly welcome from Bishop Jardine
and others present. We were much gratified
to see the courtesy and good order there prac-
ticed. The nice boys, some six feet high and
some little fellows, while they danced with their
guests did not forget their own little sisters and
their grandmas, as well as their young ladies.
	On Saturday, at 10 a.m., in the large, com-
fortable Clarkston school house, with the choir
in attendance, the Relief Society held their
meeting, which was called to order by Presi-
dent Mary Griffin. The society of Clarkston,
Newton and Trenton were then represented,
and the reports of each were very favorable.
The President of Trenton was honorably re-
leased, and Catherine Ames appointed to fill
the vacancy. The congregation was then ad-
dressed by the visiting sisters, instructed in
many things, and all invited to attend the
Primary, which would meet at 2 p.m. A full
house was the result, and after hearing the re-
ports Sister Molen questioned the children on
many points—requested them always to answer
in concert, and gave some excellent instruction.
which was followed by the other sisters, each
speaking a few words of comfort, counsel and
exhortation.
	After this meeting Sister Benson returned to
Trenton to fill her appointment. Met there
C. O. Card and Counselors Mrs. Carrie Smith
and Miss Carlisle; they held meeting there con-
jointly, and the Primary company went to
Newton and were comfortably and pleasantly
entertained. They met the Stake President,
C. O. Card and company, at the Sabbath
School. Held a conjoint meeting there, and
much good instruction was given. Mothers
were instructed to be kind and good to their
children; boys and girls to interest themselves
in their pursuits, and live so that mother should
be their best friend and counselor; boys and
girls should live so that if father and mother
could see every action of their lives the blush
of shame would never rise to their cheek. A
good deal was said to the little ones about
prayer.
	The Primary party returned through Benson
and held a meeting at Hyde Park at 3 p.m. on
Monday afternoon. The house was filled—the
oldest grandmas and the youngest babies, all
the children and many of the sisters being
there. The exercises were exceedingly well
rendered; the children, without being bold, were
quiet and self-reliant; fully proving that the
Primary schools are doing a great work in pre-
paring the minds of the young for the Mutual
Improvement Associations.
	At Clarkston Sister Emma Pike related a
warning dream, that had greatly impressed
itself on her mind—that herself, E. S.
Crowther and the teamster were in immediate
danger of being overturned on a dug way. It
came true; and only by keeping our seats as we
had done in her dream, that we were saved
from a bad accident.
	I cannot conclude this little article without
mentioning our little "Picture Gallery." By
way of change the children of the 6th Ward
Primary were instructed to draw with pencil
each a picture. There was a great variety,
showing plainer than words the character of
the artists. Portraits of President Pike
and husband, her counselors, gorillas, monkeys,
roosters, cats, geometriccal lines and solids,
pretty rooms, fine clothes, etc., which were ex-
hibited to the children at Clarkston and at Bro.
Rigby's.
	Hoping you will find room for this little
sketch, I am,	Respectfully,
	E. S. CROWTHER.


"Mathilde Blind is about to publish in Lon-
don an Italian novel called "Tarantella." The
time of the story is 1845."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SISTERS' VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	On Friday morning, Dec. 12, 1884, in com-
pany with Sisters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor,
we started for Grantsville, via. of the Utah
Western Railway, to attend the conference of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations of Tooele Stake to be held at 
Grantsville. At the Mill crossing a carriage
and horses met us and we drove to Grantsville,
calling at Bishop Hunter's, where we were
joined by Sister Mary Ann Hunter, and pro-
ceeded to Elder Samuel Woolley's residence, a 
little outside of town. There we were most
hospitably welcomed and feasted upon the
good things the country affords. In the even-
ing the family gathered together in the large
and handsome parlor, and in singing and music,
with conversation upon various topics, the even-
ing passed pleasantly away. Elder S. Woolley
Jun, the Eldest son, who had recently re-
turned from a three years' mission to the Sand-
wich Islands, gave us some of his experience
there, and the little folks sang, among other
pieces, some very pretty songs composed in
honor of his return home, that had been set to
music [-]y Prof. Ratliffe of that place.
	Saturday morning the conference of the Re-
lief Society convened in the Grantsville meet
ing house, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. There
were present Prest. H. S. Gowan and Counselor
Anderson of Tooele Stake, and other brethren.
Sister Jane Eastham gave a brief report of
the Society of Grantsville, and Sister Emily
S. Warburton of the Society of Tooele. The
meeting was addressed by Sisters Hunter,
Horne and Wells. In the afternoon the Pri-
mary conference convened. About one hun-
dred and fifty children were present, Sister
Sarah Hale presiding. The programme was a
very good one and responded to promptly.
Sister Louisa Hale, who presides over the Pri-
mary at Grantsville, seems to understand how
to deal with the little folks. On account of
the weather there were no children present and
no reports from other wards in the Stake. The
children were addressed by Sisters Taylor, Wells
and Horne. The singing was very good in-
deed, and the choice of selections both for sing-
ing and speaking were good. The answers to
Bible Questions were very correctly given.
	Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, the Y. L. M.
I. A. conference was held. There was a numer-
ous attendance, and a great many young men
in the audience, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding.
Miss Ettie Hale, who has recently been chosen
to preside over the Y. L. of Grantsille, made.
a few remarks, also Sister Tate, and then Prest
Elmina Taylor made a stirring appeal to the
young people, followed by Sisters M. I. Horne
and E. B. Wells in the same strain.
	Sunday morning we had the pleasure of at-
tending the Sabbath School,which is under the
able direction and management of Supt. Wm.
Jeffries. The manuscript paper was one of 
the most pleasing features of the day. Some
of the exercises were deferred on account of
the visitors from Salt Lake being present, each
of whom addressed the School for a few
minutes.
	At 2 o'clock the conference convened again
as per adjournment on Saturday morning, and
after the sacrament was administered, Mrs. M.
A. Huuter made a few opening remarks, and
was followed by the visiting sisters. The sub-
jects treated upon were the duties pertaining to
the several organizations in which the sisters
were called to labor, the religious, political and
social questions of the day, the paying of
tithes, storing of wheat, building of Temples
and work to be done in them for the living and
the dead, the rearing of children, their disci-
pline and training, family government, etc.
Prest. Gowan and Counselor Anderson made
some remarks, encouraging the sisters in their
labors, and endorsing what had been said dur-

[Column 2]

ing conference. Conference adjourned for
three months to be held at Tooele.
	During our visit at Grantsville we were en-
tertained at the homes of Bro. Aroet Hale,
Bro. John Eastham, Bro. Alma Hale, Bro.
Wm. Young and at Bishop Hunter's. The
visit was a very agreeable one, and the people
were most hospitable and kind.
	Monday morning Bro. Earnest Hale con-
veyed our party to the station, Sister Hunter
accompanying us to the city.


ANNIVERSARY OF FIFTH WARD
PRIMARY.

	On Sunday evening, Nov. 23rd, the Fifth
Ward Primary Association celebrated their
second annual meeting since the re-organization.
A spacious platform had been prepared in the
meeting house, on which the little ones were
arranged, their bright, happy faces expressive
of the pleasure they felt on the occassion. The
programme was excellent, and the selections
well rendered.
	After the opening hymn by all the children,
Roy Cowan and Daisy Pettit welcomed the
audience in a charming little dialogue, which
was followed by a duet by Lizzie Palmer and
Emily Durrans; after this a recitation by Willie
Brimley; Dialogue by Alex and Archie Buch-
anan; Organ solo by Lizzie Brown; Recitation
by B. Ricketts; Duet by Lollie and Ella Mar-
croft; Essay by Lillie Pettit; Recitation by Roy
Cowan; Son[-], Emily Abbott; Dialogue. "Wait-
ing for Primary," by seven girls, which was
very interesting, not only from the principles
illustrated, but also from the excellency of its
delivery. Other exercises followed, all equally
well presented, and the programme closed with
the song, "Love at Home." President Clark
presided and the meeting house was filled with
a pleasant and attentive audience of parents
and friends.
	At the close of the exercises President Clark
called upon Elder Brown for a few remarks,
and he expressed himself as well pleased with
the order and with the efforts of the little ones.
	Dr. E; B. Ferguson then addressed the par-
ents on the importance and benefit of the Asso-
ciation to their children, and urged upon them
the necessity of their co-operation with the offi-
cers of the association in all their efforts for the
improvement and instruction of the children.
Benediction by Elder Page.


"The following patents have been granted to
women during the week ending Nov. 25, 1884:
	Sarah A. Beolt, Norfolk, Va., Combined
Folding Chair and Bath tub.
	Mary Bidwell, Springfield, Ohio, Hand Pro-
tector.
	Alice B. Bromwell, Washington, D. C., Blot-
ting Thimble or Pad.
	Isora Elder, San Francisco, Cal., Embroidery
Frame."


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her residence near Junction, Piute Co., Utah,
Nov. 1st., 1884, about 4 p.m., Lucinda Sprague Bay, wife
of James Willard Bay, and daughter of Festus and Bar-
bara Sprague. She was born in Delaware Co., Porter
Township, Ohio. December 1st., 1826, she embraced the
Gospel there and immigrated to Utah in 1852; was mar-
ried to James Wiliard Bay in the spring of 1852 by Pres-
ident Orson Hyde at Kauesville, and in the fall received
the ordinances in the house of the Lord in Salt Lake
City and was sealed for time and eternity by President
Kimball.
	She moved to Southern Utah and lived in Dixie twen-
ty-one years. She taught school there for some time,
and was highly esteemed as a district and Sabbath
School teacher. She had the privilege of going to the
Temple at St. George and doing a good work for the
dead with her husband.	*	*	*	Moved to


Junction, Piute Co., Utah, where she lived until her
death.
	She leaves a husband, one son, one nephew and four
nieces in the family now at home, together with all the
Saints in the Junction Branch of the Kingston Ward in
Panguitch Stake, to mourn her loss. Peace to her and
her resting place forever.
		JAMES WILLARD BAY, Sen.
	We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Lu-
cinda Bay, and we condole with her family and friends
in their great loss; but while we mingle our tears with
theirs we would point with joy to the hope of a glorious
resurrection, which all true Latter-day Saints possess.
		SARAH S. SUDWEEKS.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.﻿
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a l[-]rger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full, and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1885	NO. 16.


IMPROMPTU

	"She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she
reacheth forth her hand to the needy."—PROV., xxxl.

I pray that health and strength be given,
	And worldly wealth to thee;
For well I know the breath of heaven
To thee in zephyr waves are given,
	That blessed the poor may be.

Long may you live, dear friend of mine,
	To bless the drooping heart.
To shed the balm of love divine,
That widow's hearts may "rise and shine,"
	And feel  you life impart.

Yes, 'tis a blessed boon to give,
	And blessed to receive;
And poor indeed must be the soul
That cannot own the sweet control
	That cometh as a blest reprieve
To bid the dying lives.

May many happy years be thine
	On this our mother earth;
Thy children rise and call thee blest,
Thy husband's soul upon the rest,
Thy "works within the gates" exprest,
	Thy presnce scattering dearth,
The hand of friendship here relates—
"Thy works shall praise thee in the gates."
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, New Year's day, 1885.

	CORCORAN ART GALLELRY.

	The Curator said he could not tell, as he
had never kept track, of the comparative at-
tendance of men and women; but they did keep
account of the number of persons who visited
the Art gallery daily.  "On cloudy or rainy
days," he said, "if my memory serves me right,
we have a greater number of ladies than gen-
tlemen in attendance; on fine and pleasant days
there is an apparent preponderance of males.
I suppose, however, they balance each other
about equally in the end.  No, I can't say I
am able to account for the more general atten-
dance of ladies on dull days, unless it is that
they do not feel as much like walking and vis-
iting outside places of attraction; but if that
were so, one would think the rule should hold
good with regard to men also; but the reverse
is the case, for they come mainly when the day
is a pleasant one.  Without wishing to speak
lightly of the art taste and art admiration of
the ladies," continued the gentleman, "I muse
state that the men show better judgement, or
taste, or whatever you may call it, in the choict
of a day to visit the gallery than the ladies do,
The success of a picture, its life—or it fidelity.
which is the same thing—depends upon the
light by which it is seen.  A cloudy day may
be calculated to help some pictures, but a vast
majority are painted for a full light, and should
be seen in such a light to be seen well.  Since
the object of viewing a painting must be for
plesaure, it seems strange that ladies (usually
so particular about enjoying the full sense of
pleasure which anything calculated to add to
the sum of human happiness can produce)
should be not only so willing to put up with
an indifferent measure in the pleasure of view-
ing pictures, but really seem to prefer the les-
ser joy.  I can't understand it, for anyone who
has seen a picture by a poor light and then be-
held it when the light was so arranged as to
bring out, every touch of the artist's genius,
must have felt within himself they were differ-

[Column 2]
ent paintings—certainly different in the high-
est degree, in the power of each to promote
pleasurable sensations through the medium of
the eye.  But, then, the ladies seem to prefer
it, bless their dear, sweet faces, and I suppose
that fact should make me happy; but somehow
I am never fully satisfied until I know the full
measure of the cup of joy has been drained by
everyone who loves art as it is shown in paint-
ing and sculpture."
	He did not mak an oration to the above ef-
fect, but he said as much in the course of some
conversation had with him while I was visiting
the Corcoran Art Gallery, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Washingon. While it is one of the
youngest, it is also conceded to be one of the
best art galleries in the United States, and in
it are master pieces of modern art in painting
and productions from the easels of many of the
most noted of recent painters, which are so
characteristic of the authors as to give to the
attentive observer a clear idea of the peculiar
style of "individualness" of each.  Strive to
overcome the feeling however much I may, my
heart runs involuntarily to landscape painting,
so much so that I find it difficult to give a
passing glance to portrait painting, even of
characters well known and prominent in the
world's history.  Thus, were reference to the
more notable works displayed, possibly that
reference would not be an impartial one, and
consequently could not be satisfactory.  How-
ever, as each work of art is by an author who
has peculiar and distinctive charactersitics
(even though it may not be as attractive as
some others), it is nevertheless, to a very large
extent, full of interest as a study and as show-
ing the style of the artist.
	I cannot resist, however, a passing notice or
two—one of "Charlotte Corday," the other "On
the Coast of New Jersey."  The former is a
most impressive one, in a variety of ways.  It
is by Charles Louis Muller, known by his "Roll
Call" of the victims of the guillotine during
the first French Revolution.  Muller has won
three medals, was, or is, an officer of the Legion
of Honor, and a member of the Institute of
France.  I do not believe it possible that lan-
guage can be made to give expression to the
strange, the pervading, the potent feelings this
picture produced in me.  It was a fascination,
from the effect of which, though it is sometime
since seen, I have not yet recovered.  The pic-
ture shows the heroine of the Revolution in pris-
on, after the killing of the blood-thirsty Marat.
She leans wearily against the prison bars, her
head resting on one hand, while the fingers of
the other hold the pen with which she has just
been writing the most touching and noble let-
ter to her father.  Her eyes are raised to the
light and the pose of the figure conspires with
the rare expression of the face, to produce a
powerful impression of weariness and resigna-
tion.  The face is a remarkable one.  It is full
of character and determination.  A nobility
of purpose gives a radiance and glorifies it to
an extent almost incomprehensible.  And yet
it is tender and fair and sweet, so surpassingly
sweet that the heart is drawn towards it irre-
sistibly and melts into a moving sympathy,
which, while it saddens, compels admiration
and fills the hearts of those who have read her
story with high purposes and noble resolves.
Though the expression is one of weariness and
sadness unutterable, there is absolutely want-
ing the slightest tinge of regret; and no saint
ever seemed more serene in awaiting the com

[Column 3]
ing judgement which follows the dissolution of
earthly ties, than does Charlotte Corday as
Muller has divinely told her story.
	The gallery was filled with ladies the last
morning I was there—it was a dull day—and
the painting seemed to have the same fascina-
tion for all who looked upon it.  I could not
forget it if I would; I would not if I could.
	The other, "On the coast of New Jersey,"
was a surprise.  There were other picturea of
greater charm, more enchanting by far; but
this one, different as human intellect can ima-
gine from that of Corday, till possessed  the
same element of focring atention and of draw-
ing the spectator towards it with an indefinite
longing.  It produced a sensation of rest,
which one cared neither to break nor to resist.
It can hardly be called a seashore scene; it is
marine to a marvellous degree.  The foreground
shows a long, level, sandy beach, with a gen-
tle and unbroken decline into the ocean's
depths.  From the breakers to the very point
are a succession of eddies, or waves, lessening
in depth and force as they run up the beach,
till the nearest one the eye can see, glides, or
seems to glide, playfully along the silvered
sands, breaking into a myriad ripples laughing
in the sunlight, each freighted with its tiny
white air bubble.
	Away to the back, far as the eye can reach,
until the ocean and the over-arching sky seem
to mingle, the green of the ocean stretches,
growing smoother and smoother with each re-
move, until the great distance produces an end-
less and unbroken stretch of green wave, as
calm and placid to the watching eye as the
liquid depths of a summer sky.  Far in the dis-
tance a solitary white sail is seen, nearer a lone
sea gull skims over the breakers.  Save these,
there is not a thing, animate or inanimate, but
the endless width of wave and sea.  And yet
it is marvellously full of interest; it excites ad-
miration; the eye loves to linger on it, and all
the while a soft and insinuating sense of soli-
tude and rest permeates the whole being.  It
is a marvellous work.  It is by W. S. Rich-
ards, who, while he had devoted his rare talents
to landscape painting for some years, ultimate-
ly found that his genius lay in the handling of
marine subjects.
	There are any number of others which one
could love to dwell upon and find pleasure and
satisfaction in such a crude, uncomely and im-
perfect description as the above; but life is too
short, and the number all too great.  To go to
Washington, however, and not visit the Corco-
ran Art Gallery, is to wrong oneself.
	There are deparments for sculpture, con-
taining original casts and copies of the most
renowned pieces of art, ancient and modern.
magnificent porcelain vases, lacquered, bas re-
liefs, bronze statues and bronze in various
forms, framents of marble figures, and other
things coming properly within the scope of a
first class art gallery.
	The Coreoran Gallery of Art, including
grounds, building, its contents and endowment
given is the free gift of Mr. W. W. Coreoran to
the public.  It was deeded to a board of trus-
tees May 10, 1869, the deed stating that it was
designed for the encouragement of the fine arts,
and "as the perpetual establishment and en-
couragement of painting, sculpture and the
fine arts generaly; that it should be opened to
visitors without charge two days a week, and
on other days at moderate and reasonable
charges, etc."  The institution was chartered


by Congress May 24, 1870, and declared
exempt from rent.
	January 19, 1874, it was opened, or that
portion of it embracing the Picture Galleries,
Octagon Room, and the Hall of Bronzes.  April
29, 1874, the Halls of Sculpture and Bronzes
were opened, and in Dec. of the same year two
side galleries of sculpture were also opened.
	The gallery is now opened free three days a
week, and three days an admission fee of 25 cts
is charged.	R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	"On Friday night, November 1st, a party of
the mob proceeded to attack a branch of the
Church at the prairie, about twelve or fifteen
miles from the village.  Two of their number
were sent in advance as spies, namely, Robert
Johnson and one Harris, arrived with two
guns and three pistols. They were discovered
by some of the Saints, and without the least
injury being done them, said Johnson struck
P. P. Pratt with the breach of his gun over
the head; after which they were taken and de-
tained till morning, which, it was believe[-],
prevented a general attack of the mob that
night.  In the morning they were liberated
without receiving the least injury.  The same
night another party in Independence com-
menced stoning houses, breaking down doors
and windows, and destroying furniture, etc.
This night the brick part of the dwelling
house of A. S. Gilbert was partly pulled down
and the windows of his dwelling broken in
with brickbats and rocks, while a gentleman
stranger lay sick with a fever in kis house.
The same night three doors of the store of
Messrs. Gilbert & Whitney were split open;
and after midnight the goods lay scattered in
the street, such as calicoes, handkerchiefs
shawls, cambrics, etc.
	"An express came from the village after mid-
night to a party of their men who had embod-
ied about a half a mile from the village for
the safety of their lives, stating that a mob was
tearing down houses and scattering the goods
of the store in the streets.  The main body of
the mob fled at the appearance of this com-
pany.  (I think this company were the men who
had gathered at our house that I mentioned
before.)” The same night some of the houses
had long poles thrust through the shutters and
sashes into the rooms of defenseless women and
children, from whence their husbands and
fathers had been driven by the dastardly at-
tacks of the mob, which were made by ten, fif-
teen or twenty men at a time.
	"Saturday, Nov. 2nd, all the families of the
Saints in the village moved half a mile out,
with most of their goods, and embodied to the
number of thirty for the preservation of life
and personal effects.  This night a party from the
village met a party from the west of the Blue,
a river, and made an attack upon a branch of
the Church located at the Blue, about six miles
from the village; here they tore the
roof from on dwelling and broke open 
another house and found the owner,
David Bennett, sick in bed, whom they
beat most inhumanly, swearing they would
blow out his brains, they discharged a pistol,the
ball ot which cut a deep gash across the top of
his head.  In this skirmish a young man of the
mob was shot in the thigh, but by which party
remains yet to be determined.
	"The next day, Sunday, Nov. 3rd, four of
the Church, Joshua Lewis, Hiram Page, and
two others, were despatched for Lexington to
see the circuit judge and obtain a peace war-
rant.  Two called on Esq. Silver, who refused

[Column 2]
to issne one on account, as he has declared, of
his fears of the mob.  This day many of the citi-
zens,professing friendship,advised the Saints to
clear from the county as speedily as possible,
for Saturday night’s affray had enraged the
whole county, and they were determined to
come out on Monday and murder indiscrimi-
nately; and in short, it was proverbial among
the mob, "Monday would be a bloody day.”
	"Monday came,and a large party of the mob
gathered at the Blue, took the ferry boat be-
longing to the Church, threatened lives, etc.
But they soon abandoned the ferry and went
to Wilson’s store about a mile west of the Blue.
Word had previously gone to a branch of the
Church several miles west of the Blue that the
mob was destroying property on the east side of
the Blue,and the sufferers there wanted help to
preserve their lives and property.  Nineteen men
volunteered and started for their assistance, but
discovering fifty or sixty of the mob had gath-
ered at Wilson’s they turned back.  At this
time two small boys passed on their way to
Wilson’s, who gave information to the mobbers
that the Mormons were on the road west of
them; between forty and fifty immediately
started with guns in pursuit.  After riding
about two or two and a half miles they discov-
ered them, when the company of nineteen  im-
mediately dispersed and fled in different direc-
tions. The mob hunted for them, turning their
horses into a cornfield belonging to the Saints;
searching their cornfields and houses, threat-
ening women and children that they would pull
down their houses and kill them if they did
not tell where the men had fled.  Thus they
were employed, hunting the men and threat-
ening the women, until a company of thirty of
the Saints from the prairie, armed with seven-
teen guns, made their appearance.  The former
company of nineteen had dispersed and fled,
and but one or two bad returned to take part
in the subsequent battle.
	"On the approach of the latter company of
thirty men, some of the mob cried, "Fire, God
d—n you, fire.” Two or three guns were
then fired by the mob, which were returned by
the other party without loss of time.  This
company is the same that is represented by the
mob as having gone forth in the evening of the
battle bearing the olive branch of peace.  The
mob retreated early after the first fire, leaving
their horses in Whitmer’s cornfield;two of their
number, Hugh L. Brareal and Thomas Lin-
vill, died on the ground.  Thus fell H. L. Bra-
real, one who had been heard to say, "With
ten fellows, I will wade to my knees in blood,
but I will drive the Mormons from Jackson
Co.” The next morning the corpse of said
Brareal was discovered on the battle ground
with a gun by his side.  Several were wounded
on both sides, but none mortally, except one
Barber, on the part of the Saints, who expired
the next day. 
	"This battle was fought about sunset, Mon-
day, Nov. 4, and on the same night runners
were despatched in every direction under the
pretence of calling out the militia; spreading
as they went every rumor calculated to alarm
and excite the unwary, such as, the Mor-
mons had taken Independence, and the Indians
had surrouuded it, and they being colleagued
together, etc. 

	The same evening, Nov. 4, not being satis-
fied with breaking open the store of Gilbert &
Whitney, and demolishing a part of the dwell-
ing of said Gilbert the Friday night previous,
they permitted Mc.Carty, who was detected on
Friday night as one of the breakers of the
store doors, to take out a warrant and arrest
the said Gilbert and others of the Church for
a pretended assault, and false imprisonment of
Mc.Carty. Late in the evening, while the conrt
was in progress with their trial in the court,
house, a gentleman unconnected with the

[Column 3]
court, as was believed, perceiving the prisoners
to be without counsel and in imminent danger,
advised Gilbert and his brethren to go to jail
as the only alternative to save life, for the
north door was already barred and an infuria-
ted mob thronged the house with a determina-
tion to beat and kill; but through the interpo-
sition of this gentleman (Samuel C. Owens,
Clerk of the County Court, whose name will
appear more fully hereafter) said Gilbert and
four of his brethren were committed to the
county jail of Jackson Co., the cell of which
must have been a palace compared with the
court room, where dignity and mercy were
strangers; naught but the wrath of man in
horrid threats stifled the ears of the prisoners.


THE DISTINGUISHED DEAD OF 1884.

     "Of the multitude who have gone over to the
majority during the past year there are the
usual number of prominent characters in state
and church, literature and the professions.  The
eloquence of Wendall Phillips has been stilled
before the silver tongue had lost its magic
power, and with him his fellow philanthropists,
Herr Lasker, the German Liberal, and Kes-
hub Chunder Sen., the remarkable East Indian
promoter of the Brahmo-Somaj.  Of public
men in active life this country loses Secre-
tary Folger, Senator Anthony, ex-Secretary
Hunt (minister to Russia) Judge Noah Swayne,
Augustus Schell, John J. Sisco, and President 
John W. Garrett, of the Baltimore and Ohio
road.  Of an older generation were Charles
O'Conor, the once famous jurist, J. Watson
Webb, Royal Phelps, all of New York; Reuben
R Springer, of Cincinnati, The more promi-
nent journalists of the lists are Thomas Chenery,
editor of the London Times: Thomas Kinsella,
of the Brooklyn Eagle; George W. Danielson,
of the Providence Journal; Wilbur F. Storey,
of the Chicago Times; Dr. Sanford D. Hunt, of
the Newark Advertiser; Gen. James Watson
Webb, ex-editor of the New York Courier and
Inquirer, and with these may be included Isaac
Henderson, F.J. Ottarson, Thomas Maguire,
Mary Clemmer, Jane G. Swisshelm and Mrs.
Anna Ottendoffer.  The most noted name in
literature is that of Charles Reade, who will be
remembered long after the world has forgetten
that an English Prince named Leopold died
about the same time.  Of eminent clergymen,
Bishop Simpson, Bishop Clarkson, of Nebraska;
Bishop Kavanack, of the Methodist Episcopal
church South; Bishop Wiley, Chinese mission-
ary; the Rev. Lawrence Walsh, of Rhode Island,
treasurer of the land league, and the Rev.
Henry Morgan, of Boston.  Other names not
to be overlooked are those of Eugene Rouher,
French statesman; Bastien Lepalge, Gen. Tod-
leben, of Russia; Midhat Pasha, Judah P. Ben-
jamin, Sir Bartle Frere, Samuel Ward, Wil-
liam Anson Wood, Henry C. Work, Mrs. Far-
ragut, Brignoli, Maria Taglioni, Cetewayo,
Hans Makart, Fanny Elssler, Charles Eenno
Hoflman, Profs.  Packard and Williams, of
Yale; Abbott, of Harvard, and Guyot, of
Princeton, and Taylor, of Andover; Commodore
Hunt, Gen. Weitzel, and not least the Russian
banker, von Stieglitz, worth &76,000,000."


"Whatever I know," wrote Frederick Deni-
son Maurice in 1840 to his wife, "except as to
its outward expression, has come to me much
more from women than men; I am certain they
have taught me the deepest wisdom."
     "A benevolent lady in New York runs a home
especially for cash girls.  She began two years
ago in a little parlor with five or six girls, and
has since so enlarged her work that in the last 
year she entertained and assisted 2,500 chil-
dren and young sales-girls."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS.

ADDRESSED TO THE SUNDAY SCHOOL CHILDREN OF
TEMPE.

Little children, do you know
Why upon this Christmas day,
In a month of storm and snow,
When rought winds the wildest blow,
Human hearts are light and gay?

Why with gift, and smile, and song,
From the dawning's early grey,
We the passing hours prolong,
Giving love, forgiving wrong,
Till the light has passed away?

Why the rich, with generous hand,
Give good gifts to those in need
And a spirit through the land
Bids each passing brother stand—
Giving each to each "God speed!"

Why the proud head boweth low,
And each heart grows tender when
Voices on the night air ring,
And glad choirs the anthem sing,
"Peace on earth, good will to men!"

Eighteen hundred years ago,
Waiting shepherds saw a star,
Leading with a steady glow
To a stable poor and low,
Drawing men's hearts from afar

To that low and lonely shed,
Where the cattle, gentle eyed,
All unconscious stood and fed,
While the precious moments sped,
And the gates of heaven thrown wide—

Saw the son, the prince of power,
Helpless as a fledgeling dove,
Lower in his natal hour
Than the serf with Slavery's dower,
He, the Lord of peace and love.

Thus the earth received her king,
This the welcome that they gave
One who brought salvation near,
Burst the bands of sin and fear,
Won the victory o'er the grave.

Little children, ye have read
How He lived, the truths He taught;
How He walked by Galilee;
How men loved with Him to be,
And their babes the mothers brought;

How He took them in His arms,
Blessed and spoke the sweet decree,
While each sould was touched and stirred,
And the people wond'ring heard,
"Let the children come to me."

Follow Him, each little one,
Follow to that upper fold;
When your life's great work is done,
When your earthly course is run,
May your names with His be [-]old.

MIILICENT.
Tempe.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN IN THE PROFESSIONS.

	WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:  	
	“An important step—one which will exeite
considerable interest in as well as out of the
medical profession—has been resolved upon by
the Columbian University of Washington city.
At a special meeting of the board of officers of
that institution, upon the unanimous recom-
mendation of the faculty of its medical de-
partment, they decided to admit women to the
study of medicine in the university, with all
the privileges of instruction in that branch of
education now accorded male students. This
action, it is stated, is due in a large measure to
the earnest and persistent efforts of a number
of ladies who have attended the medical lec-
tures since the beginning of the current schol-
astic term, one of whom is the daughter of a
celebrated physician of Washington. Two

[Column 2]
others are of the faculty of a well known female
seminary. The unanimity of the faculty of
the medical department in recommending this
innovation is noticeable, and evidences that the
profession of this city recognize the demands of
public opinion in this direction.”
	The following brief editorial comment from
the Washington Post on the action of the fac-
ulty, is pertinent; but as showing the approba-
tion with which that action is meeting, and on
account of the ever-widening sentiment that all
other things being equal, women should enjoy
every privilege which is an inheritance of
men.
	“The action of the trustees of the Colum-
bian University of this city in opening the
medical department of that institution to
women students as well as men is to be com-
mended. It is following in the line of pro-
gress which leads to a fuller emancipation of
womanhood from unnatural and oppressive
restraints, opens the way to an avocation for
the successful pursuits of which in many of its
branches the sex is peculiarly well-fitted, and
thrusts aside another of the antiquated preju-
dices which have so long shut in its face the
doors of professional life. Wherever the in-
novation has been made the results are bene-
ficent. It will not be many years before the
justice of the principle and the wisdom of its
practice will be universally acknowledged.”
	“Columbia University, it appears, is but fol-
lowing in the steps of Howard University,
which has thrown, its doors open to female stu-
dents since 1869. The first female physician
ever graduated in the District of Columbia
was Dr. Mary D. Spackman in 1872. Dr.
Mary A. Parsons, of Colebrook, N. H., fol-
lowed in 1874, and in 1877, Francis S. Hillyer,
Grace Roberts, and Eunice P. Shadd, the last
named colored, were given diplomas. Mary
E. Hart, Juliet G. Shearer, Anna W. Mc.Cor-
mick, Mary L. Wooster, and Nannie Stafford,
the last a colored resident of Elizabeth, N. J.,
were the later graduates. There are now six
female students and eleven colored men in the
medical classes," showing the cosmopolitan and
Catholic custom which now prevails in educa-
tional matters. It is also indicative of the
spirit that is at work everywhere and which
must result, ultimately, in opening to woman
every avenue for emyloyment that man enjoys ,
and every distinction and honor—political, so-
cial or educational—which superiority in these
directions and in the battle of life may justly
entitle her to. It is a little strange that people
must ever be educated to giving justice to their
fellow creatures who have been held by custom
in what may have been considered a subordi-
nate sphere; but it is nevertheless true. It
seems such a palpable, such a self-evident
proposition that woman should enjoy every-
thing that the same talents possessed by man
would win for him,  A man should be
ashamed to take advantage of the base customs
prevailing to retain himself in position and
power, lest it might be wrested from him by a
woman. If man were what that word should
imply, he would be too proud, too manly to de-
ny to woman an equal chance iu all spheres,
and let the better and the more talented prove
victorious.
	The old fol-de-rol, clap trap chatter about
superiority of the male sex is falling into such
ignoble repute that a man who pretends to
be fair, or just, or to possess any breadth of
thought, dare not advance it. Only the ignor-
ant creature,who is coward enough to abuse his
wife, makes use longer of that assertion—
which, at one time, or for some unaccountable
reason, was actually called an “argument.”
Nor is there a less rapid decrease in the num-
ber of those who, as an irrefutable argument,
point to the fact that so few women have been
distinguished for learning, or in other direc

[Column 3]
tions once considered exclusively masculine,
walks,.as placing them in an invulnerable posi-
tion, from which they may perpetually shout
“Woman, as we have shown, is intellectually
incapacitated by nature for competition with
men in the pursuits of life.” If incapacitated
by nature, why fear competition? That very
declaration, broad and bold as it appears to be,
is the certain and unmistakable evidence that
men do fear, and are unmanly enough to let
that fear force them into the ignoble attitude
of employing the strong arm of existing power
to keep women out of the ranks of competi-
tion.
	I am not one of those who run wild on the
woman question; and I must say there are
some things I view with much more patience
than a lot of women gathering together for the
ostensible purpose of arousing women, but who
do little else than abuse men and the existing
ways of men. There must be something better
and more ennobling in the woman suffrage
cause than this; and this being true, for heav-
en’s sake let woman be true to herself, and
show that she is worthy her own cause, that she
seeks the bettering of her race, the elevation
of her own sex, and that advocacy of these
ideas docs not necessarily involve a perpetual
abuse of men.
	If woman wants to vote, and has all the
qualifications that are required of man, then
let her vote; If there is any position on earth
to which she aspires, and by using the same
means that men employ she can gratify that
ambition, then let her secure it; but for her
own sake let her drop this incessant, intermin-
able and absolutely useless crying about men’s
tyranny, domineering, and what not.
	On the 20th of this month the women hold
a national convention here, when a number of
the most noted of the sex—politically and
otherwise—will hold forth and discuss the wo-
man’s suffrage situation. When that event
transpires there may be something of interest
to tell your readers.
	If the Washington ladies are not remarkable
for the percentage of beauties to the female
population, they are remarkable for the neat-
ness, the surpassing neatness of their we ring
apparel. They always look lovely.
	Bangles, bracelets are the rage, to the dis-
carding of the old fashioned ones—one for each
arm, and both alike. A lady will wear two
or three on one arm. Diamond earrings,
diamond finger rings, diamond bracelets and
diamond pins abound. They are worn on the
street, in the house, and everywhere. A sin-
gle bud or a few flowers is not sufficient;a nese-
gay of enormous size, such as ladies would
consider ordinarily as out of all proportion for
a hand bouquet, are now worn midway be-
tween the waist and bosom. They are not ar-
tificial, but made up mainly of tea roses. On
a fine day Pennsylvania Avenue is literally
crowded with ladies splendidly attired, and a
majority of them adorned with the bouquets
referred to above. The avenue, for square
after square, is filled with that delightful, per-
vading and insinuating odor peculiar to tea
roses.
	Everything in the upper classes is on wheels,
reception parties and calls, to which some men
submit with becoming grace, and which are the
delight of that “fashionable dude,” by courtesy
called the young gentleman of society.
ROVER.


Miss Susan Fenimore Cooper is educating or-
phan children in industrial occupations in
Cooperstown, N. Y.

	Lady Dufferin raised £10,000 for charity in
a single year, and managed its distribution.
She devotes much of her time to work for the
poor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price pf nine. Advertising 
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to	
	Publisher	WOMAN'S EXPONENT,	
	Salt Lake City Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	Any one who pauses in the steady treadmill
of life to reflect for one moment must come to
the conclusion that this is an eventful period of
time.  Earthquakes, wars, accidents of all kinds,
disturbances of the elements of nature on the
land and on the sea—all these things,and others
combined, to the p ophetic mind portend some
still greater manifestation or culmination at no
distant time in the unknown future. Those
who read the Scriptures, particularly those in-
spirational books, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi,
have the interpretation of the day and age in
which we live unfolded before them as clearly
as one can see his own face in a mirror. Those
who shut their eyes and harden their hearts may
not see and understand these things, but they
will awaken one day to the full reality.
	Many are disposed to meet you with such
reasonings as these: “O it is only a repetition of
past history, and there have always been wars
and desolation and famine and oppression, and
therefore time will continue to run its course,
and there is nothing greater to be expected than
what has been.”
	The Latter-day Saint knows better, and can-
not help seeing how ominous are these signs of
the last days that are now transpiring before the
very eyes of those who are taking an active
part in the great drama that is only the prelude
to the tragedy that will follow, in which all na-
tions and kingdoms that exist will have a promi-
nent part.
	One of the p[-]edictions of the Apostles in re-
gard to the signs of the times, was, that knowl-
edge should increase in the earth; this is cer-
tainly coming to pass now.  There never was a
time when knowledge and science had reached
the height it has in the present day.  Every day
some new truth is developed that will advance
man still further towards that which it
seems to be his ambition to attain to, viz.,
a knowledge of all things in heaven and on
earth. But God has set bounds that man in 
his pride and glory cannot circumvent. 
	The recent earthquakes in S[-]a[-]n and the sub-
marine roarings in the Atlantic have set some
people thinking of the possible an[-] prob b[-]e de-
struction of that old country, where in former
days the Inquisition flourished, striking terror to
all hearts.  The record of its cruelty is, perhaps,
unsurpassed in history.  Italy, too, has a history
almost as terrible in this respect, and la belle
France is not far behind.  Who can read the
history of these countries and not feel that judg-
ments must await them.
	T[-]e Scriptures say the earth shall reel to and
fro like a drunken man, and men’s hearts shall
fail them for fear, and so on.  That cities and
even countries will be sunk in the sea is some-
thing that may be looked for with certainty in
 ulfillment of prophecy.  To be prepared for the

[Column 2]
great events that are transpiring and about to
take place in the earth,is what is most necessary 
for those who are now living, for it will be a
terrible ordeal to pass through with those who
are living on the earth when these things come 
to pass.
	Even now the newspapers are so full of
horrors,that one’s nerves want bracing to be able
to read the accounts of fires, murders, suicides, 
and other horrors with which the columns are
filled.	
	The present condition of America,“the land of
the free and the home of the brave,” is not so
pleasant to gaze upon, as the anticipations of her
people would fain have imagined, for the Con-
stitution, once the pride and boast of her sons
and daughters, seems to be trampled upon by
those whose duty it is to uphold it. Many think
now that a new admistration under a democratic 
President will turn the tide of affairs and “every
wrong will be righted,"but time will prove. It is
devoutly to be hoped for, but not to be expected
judging from the past history of that party. 
	In Utah there may be some little hope from a
change of officials, at least it will afford time for
people to catch their breath. However, it gives
one pleasure to be able to chronicle a decision of
any kind in the Federal Courts fovorable to the 
people here, or that portion of them who have 
made this part of the United States habitable.
Judge Zane in his decision rendered on the 
Seventh Ward school question did himself great
credit. Looking all the ground over rationally 
one could not but reach the same conclusion
that Judge Zane did, if testimony were taken as
evidence, but this people have so often had ad- 
verse decisions given in cases where the testi- 
mony was as clear as day light in their favor,
that it is no wonder it took some people a little
by surprise when that decision was given.
	There are some important decisions yet to be
given that this people are wa ching with the
greatest interest; not that it will effect in the 
least the principlss they hold, or the opinions
expressed, but it will decide some matters more
important than the lives and practices of pri-
vate individuals. The fate of this nation depends
greatly upon whether it will sustain and main-
tain the principle of religious liberty and freedom
not only in thought or belief, but in actual
practice. God gave the constitution of this
country by inspiration, and He put it into the
hearts of the forefathers of this blessed country
to make the provision they did for securing re-
ligious liberty, which is not merely an idea, but
a fact and a principle, from which man cannot
depart without involving fearful consequences.


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
several interesting documents from Washington,
by the courtesy of our delegate; "Message of the
[----] the United States," "Report of the
Utah Commission," and "Special report of the
Utah Commission to the Secretary of the Inte-
r[-]," speech of Hon. Joseph E. Brown of
Georgia, delivered in the Senate of the United
States, May 27th, 1884, entitled, "Polygamy in
Utah and New England contrasted."
	We learn from Mrs. M A. Freeze, who at-
tended the lecture given under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Seventh Ward, by Dr.
Margaret C. Shipp, that the subject treated up-
on in  her lecture was one that shoul[-] interest
all young women. She ought to b[-] invited to
give her lectures to women only, in each of the
several wards.  It would be a great benefit if
the girls and young women were better and
more thoroughly instructed in the matters
which pertian to their life and health, and to
maternity.

[Column 2]
	From the Juvenile Instructor Office we have
received recently a pamphlet, entitled, "Blood-
Atonement."  An address delivered in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City,
October 12th, 1884, by Elder Charles W. Pen-
rose, and reported stenographically by John
Irvine. The enemies of the Latter-day Saints
have had a great deal to say upon this subject,
and have published the most wicked accusations
against leading men in the Church, willfully ac-
cusing them of the vilest and foulest deeds,
whereas the belief of this people is diametrical-
ly opposed to the shedding of blood.  To all peo-
ple seeking information on this subject we
would recommend this little book. Price 25 cts.
It is a direct and complete refutation of the
malicious calumnics used to destroy the charac-
ters of the Latter day Saints.
	Two handsome pictures hang on our walls re-
ceived from the large mercantile firm of Z. C.
M. I.  They have been prepared expressly as a
decorative advertisement, and certainly are
artistic in design and coloring.  Each has a
calendar so on each day in the month and each
month in the year when one refers to the calen-
dar on the wall, one is reminded of the whole-
sale and retail establishments of Z. C. M. I.,
where they can always purchase the best quality
of all varieties of goods at the most reasonable
rates.  Ladies can buy there fancy as well as
staple groceries, glass, china and silver ware.
Fancy dress goods in all styles, ribbons, scarfs, 
shawls, laces, gloves, hosiery, shoes of the best
quality.  A room has been fitted up where a lady
can feel perfectly comfortable to try a shoe on.
There have been a number of desirable changes
made in the inside arrangement of goods during
the past year, and a decided improvement is the
result.  Everybody trades at Z. C. M. I.  They
carry the largest stock of goods of any wholesale
house in the Western Interior.
	Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines of this city recently
sent to England an elegant piano scarf embroid-
ered by her own hands, that was exhibited at
the Ladies Fair in London during the holiday
season, and mentioned in the London papers,
and it was greatly admired there, and some
of the ladies stated that it was handsome
enough to exhibit for charity.  It was an elabor-
ate and artistic piece of handiwork.  The ma-
terial was very fine, wine colored satin finished
at the ends with plush of the same color.  It
was embroidered at one end in  pincushion cac-
tus, cream color, the pattern very natural indeed
as if you could pluck them; among other flowers,
at the other end, Scotch Thistles;  the most per-
fect you could posibly imagine.  The middle
part was worked in waterlilies with roses, very
natural, and the most beautiful pansies; in the
centre was a lovely spray of wild roses, as if it
was a bouquet laid on.  It was the most exquis-
ite article of needle work we have seen.  Those
who think nothing good can come out of Utah 
ought to see Mrs. Staines' needle work, for in
her idea and execution of fancy work she is
second to none.  Daeca silk, split chenille,
arasene and floselle, were the materials used in
the work.
	With the Phrenological Journal for January
we received a very elaborate colored chart.  A
symbolical head with all the "bumps" marked
giving names and descriptions.  It is quite a
work of art, each characteristic being noted
with a minature picture descriptive of the at-
tribute.  It is an ingenious design, and one from
which much may be learned.  The magazine
this year celebrates its fiftieth year.  The Jour-
nal contains woodcuts of many distinguished
men in the profession of phrenology.  Joseph
Francis Call, who promulgated the doctrine in
1757, and announced it publicly in Vienna 90
years ago.  His associate, John Gasper Spruz
hiem of Prussia, and George Combe of Edinburgh.


These pictures are followed by Prof. O. L.
Fowler's, his brother, L. N. Fowler, his sister,
Charlotte Fowler Wells, her late husband, Prof.
S. R. Wells, then Nahum Capen L. L. D. and
Nelson Siz[-]r.  These last are well and favor-
ably known to the world as able expounders of
the now well recognized science of Phrenology.
There are other pictures of noted men, famous
buildings, etc. It is a more than usually inter-
esting number, containing a brief history of the
Journal itself, sketches of its editors, and so on;
"Phenomena of Immortality," by John Waugh,
"The Great Cotton Centennial," with illustra-
tions and other instructive articles. It is one of
the best magazines in the world.
	We have also to thank the publishing house
of Fowler and Wells for another very entertain-
ing and useful book, entitled, "The Fallacies in
Progress and Poverty." The book is by William
Hanson- Price $100. It is a review of Henry
George's "Progress and Poverty," Henry Dun-
ning Macleod's "Economics" and other works
on protection, free trade, the industrial problem,
etcetera.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thanks, many, for the Xmas gift you sent me, 
"Woman's Place To-day," by Lillie Dovereux
Blake, containing four lectures in reply to the 
Lenten Lectures on "Woman," by the Rev-
Morgan Dix D. D., I have read it with much 
pleasure and information. She has answered 
his arguments and wonderful assertions in such 
a clear, truthful and erudite manner that if he
does not respond to them all must decide he 
considers them unanswerable; she asserts
nothing but what every candid mind must en-
dorse as truth, which all may see, know and un-
derstand, if they hold their minds open to con-
viction. 
	The determination in men not to see what 
really belongs to woman's true position, is verily
a problem, for it would seem their own knowl-
edge and daily observation must tell them how 
necessary, how important it is that she should
be a cultured, well educated being, that she be
able to inform the minds of her children from 
their earliest earth-life, and, indeed, know 
enough to understand how to educate the ante-
natal existence; at this point the intelligence of 
motherhood should commence, and it is a sub-
lime study, in which the young female mind
should be instructed as an imperative portion of 
her early training. 
	I often feel, when ignorance seems to over-
whelm me, and there seems so much to learn, 
that we scarce know how to live till we are un-
der the necessity of dying! Dr. D[-]x, with all 
his collegiate education, must have become a 
fossilized being, belonging to several past ages, 
surely he admires Emerson, the poet and philoso-
pher of America, let him hear what he says:
	"A certain awakened consciousness of in-
feriority in the men may have given rise to the
new chivalry in behalf of 'woman's rights.'
Certainly, let her be a[-] much better placed in 
the laws and in social forms as the most zealous
reformer can ask, but I confide so entirely in 
her inspiring, musical nature, that I believe
only herself can show us how she shall be served. 
The wonderful generosity of her sentiments
raises her at times into heroic and God-like re-
gions, and verifies the pictures of Minerva, 
Juno and others; by the firmness by which she 
treads her upward path, and she convinces the 
coarsest calculators that another road exists, 
than that which their feet knows."
	I would like to go on, for that which follows is 
so truly beautiful, realizing all that the heart of 
woman looks for in man, that there ought to be 

[Column 2]
a continual reiteration of it, especially in such 
ears and understandings as the Rector of Trin-
ity seems to possess; Emerson was a spiritual 
expounder of laws, receiving his ordination direct
from the chancery of heaven, hence he is cra[-]u-
ler. It is a problem yet to be solved, why man 
has so tenaciously struggled to subordinate
woman! It must arise from an entire ignorance
of her character and of her capabilities; they 
are not aware that the very system which they
have constantly inaugurated for her subj[-]ction, 
is the very cause of her supposed inferiority. 
From the beginning of the world there have
ever been women who have stood forth as the
oracles of womanhood, placed there either by 
birthright or circumstances, giving them a posi-
tion where they could develop themselves, and 
redeem their sex from the stigma of inferiority
and almost of imbecility with which man has 
branded her. In such positions she has shown
that she is capable of exalting and refining hu-
man nature, and also defining that beautiful and
most delicate position that he shall hold in re-
gard to his association with her; this is her pre-
reogative when she knows her place, and a true, 
pure woman will hold it with a tenacity that 
God has given her. 
	The greatest men of history have left on re-
cord, for the information of the world, that all 
that was worthy in them they derived from their 
mothers; showing the grandeur of their rich ap-
preciation. Were it not that the human voice
has to be exercised to propel truth and establish
it, I should feel it beneath the dignity of woman
to attempt to clear the opaque vision of some
masculine minds; "God is His own interpreter,
and He will make it plain." That the time has
come to clear the track for the progression of His
daughters, I rejoice; that there are noble men 
who boldly stand forth as the brother and the
advocate of woman in her upward path that
leads to emancipation, one of these I have be-
come acquainted with through his noble book, 
entitled, "Common Sense About Women," by 
T. W. Higginson; coupled with this is, "Woman's
Place To-day." These books should be found in 
the libraries of all advanced minds of the 19th 
century, for they contain an epitome of all that
need be said upon the subject, for to my under-
standing it appears that one who cannot see and
feel and comprehend the truths they contain 
must willfully shut their eyes, and then quer-
ously exclaim, "I cannot see!" Such would not
be persuaded though one rose from the dead. 
Alas! there are many such incredulous minds
upon the earth to day, even now when knowl-
edge and science are withdrawing the veils that
have hitherto obscured the mental vision; sure-
ly such prefer "darkness rather than light;" or 
is it that lethargy is upon many minds; that
sleep which Scripture so vividly portrays by the
ten virgins—they all slumbered and slept, from 
which truth, with her ever glowing lamp, could 
not awaken. 
	Oh, let us watch! that we be not one of these. 
A mind always kept open to conviction will re-
ceive truth by whatever hand it may be brought. 
Like the diamond and the gold, it is indestruc-
tible; and such a mind, ignited by its flame, will
be ready even to hear and obey that thrilling
voice, "Behold the Bridegroom cometh, go ye 
out to meet Hi[-]!"
	HANNAH T. KING. 
Salt Lake City, Jan. 5th, 1885.


[Column 1]
THE WORLD'S EXPOSITION. 

NEW ORLEANS, La.,  Dec. 29th, 1884. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	On reaching this city, and finding that Utah 
has made no move towards an exhibit in this 
immense World's Exposition in the Woman's

[Column 2]
﻿Department, I take the first opportunity to ap-
peal to you, with, the assurance that there is a
space awaiting the women of Utah, and the
opportunity to do themselves credit before the 
world, in literature, science, art, invention,
household employment and home industries; in
short to make an exhibit that may show her
steady advance, [-]levation and cultivation.
	It may seem a late time to make a move—let
me assure you,and the rest of the ladies of Utah,
that it is not too late; There are many delays
in all directions; detentions by rail, searc[-]y of
lumber for furnishing spaces, etc., so this gives
one courage to ask for immediate and prompt
sc[-]ion.
	Call all the earnest, appreciative, talented and
co operative women together, and see how much
good work can be done in the shortest time, and
I will do all in my power here for you towards
the care of goods entrusted, and see to it that
they have a proper installation,
	In Literature—There must be some shining
lights, who, if they have not published a book,
have short stories written for papers and maga-
zines. Collections in scrap bocks, and leaned
for the time, would fill the gap. If any works
are issued, all the better.	
	In Art—Are there not artists in oil, water
colors, crayon pictures, wood-carving,etching on
glass, etc;, needle work, fancy, o n amental and
practical; screen painting, carpet and rug mak-
ing, etc, etc.
	In Science.—Who has made a collection of tire
plants of Utah, Its minerals, birds insects, ete ?
	Invention must have claimed the attention of
pome one or more, no matter how, simple if
practical.
	In Enployments and Industries of all kinds
suitable to women, such as canning fruitin glass,
dried fruits, bee farming, silk raising, what ex-
hibits can be made?
	This outline, in brief, I venture to give an
idea of what may be desired and desirable, In
case the ladies of Utah, respond; and allow me to
add, that, as the collection of articles is made, it
 is desirable to duplicate the invoice of each box,
Bending a duplicate to me. Have the name of
each contributor marked upon a label and at-
tached to the article. If to be sold, its value.
When sold, at the close of the Exposition, the
 money will be sent instead of the goods, after
deducting 10 per cent, an express regulation of
the Woman's Department. The goods to be sent
by quick freight, plainly marked “Woman’s Da-
partment, World’s Exposition, New Orleans, for
Mrs. J. G. Lemmon.” 
	Transportation to and from the Exposition,
the cost of installation of goods and all necessary
expanses here will be defrayed by the Depart-
ment of Women.
	You may recall Prof. J. G. Lemmon and my-
self on a brief visit to your beautiful city in
1881, when we participated in celebrating the
90th anniversary of B[-]shop Hunter at the old
folks' picnic. Last season in botanizing in Ari-
zona, we made our botanic headquarters at the
former home of Elder John W. Young, and
there had the pleasure of becoming well ac-
quainted with Elder Segmiller, who made the
hospitalities doubly pleasant, while exploring in
and about the beautiful region of the San Fran-
cisco Mountains.
	Par on this pleasant digression—my thoughts
are none the less alive to the good work ahead;
if you all, over there, act with promptness, and
I know you will esteem it a privilege to offer the
best and do what you can for a good work in
this truly great World's Exposition. Are none
of you coming over here? If you could, and
take the goods under immediate supervision, all
the better. Allow me to say, that whatever I
am doing, or may do, I receive not a dollar of re-


numeration; but with cheerfulness do all I can;
and expect to remain till after the close of the
exhibit.
	With cordial remembrances and good wishes
for the New Year, believe me,
	Yours Respectfully,
	MRS J. G. LEMMON,
	Vice President of Pacific slope (including
Utah) Woman's Department, World's Exposi-
tion, New Orleans.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROFESSIONAL TRAVELS.

	Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp, M. D., has recently
returned from rather an extended and interest-
ing professional trip through Northern Utah,
parts of Wyoming and Idaho. Leaving this
city September 25th, the Dr. visited Coalville,
Grass Creek and Wanship, then returned home
to attend O[-]tober Conference. Immediately
after conference, resuming her labors in this di-
rection, she visited Morgan, Evanston, Almy,
Woodruff, Randolph, Laketown, St. Charles, 
Bloomington, Paris and Montpelier. In each
of the places mentioned she lectured to the ladies
upon those special subjects that interest women
so greatly. At St. Charles the Dr. says she had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Nancy Pugmire, a
daughter of the late Apostle C. C. R ch, and
President of the Y. L M. I. A. of Bear Lake
Stake, over which she presides with dignity and
rejoices in her work. She proposed to call
meetings in the different towns of the Stake,
and by her invitation she visited, in company
with President Pugmire, the Associations of St.
Charles, Bloomington and Paris. Their associa-
tions have a large membership and its members
are active and spirited in their work. At Mont-
pelier she took the Oregon Short Line to the
Junction of the Utah Northern, visiting Cache
Valley on her return home. She lectured at
Providence, Millville, Hyrum, Paradise, Wells-
ville and Logan. She remained at Logan three
weeks and several sisters followed her home
from different parts of Cache County, to place
themselves under her treatment. Dr Shipp says
in her trip of twelve weeks and a half she was 
kept constantly very busy lecturing and treating
uterine diseases. At each place she informs us
she spoke very highly of and always recom-
mended patients desiring treatment to the
Deseret Hospital.
	Dr. Shipp intends giving lectures in the sever-
al wards of the city by invitation of the Y. L.
M. I. A. On Wednesday evening, Jan. 7[-]h, she
gave an excellent lecture  under ths auspices of
the Young Ladies' Association, giving season-
able and logical advice and suggestion, as well
as scientific facts and results of investigations
by the most learned men and women of the
medical profession. Dr. Shipp i[-] a very pleas-
ing speaker, and she has some pertinent truths 
to impart to young women, and especial[-]y to 
young mothers.


R. S. AND Y. L. FOURTEENTH WARD.

	The sisters regular semi monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Jan. 10th, 1885, at 2 p.m,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Singing, "We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet," etc. Prayer
by Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. Singing, 'Come let
us anew." Minutes of the previous meeting
read by the Secretary, Miss Alee Jenkins, and
approved. Minutes of Y. L. A. were then read
from the 20th Ward, and minutes of P. A. from
the 21st and 15th Wards.
	Mrs. Clawson then made a few opening re-
marks, and expressed her desire to hear each of
the sisters say a few words. Mrs. Freeze, Mrs.


Mc. Master, Mrs. St[-]yner, Mrs. H. C. Young,
each  made a few remarks, and the remainder of
the time was occupied by the sisters in the con-
gregation, many of whom bore strong testimon-
ies of the truth of the Gospel, and related items
of personal experience, all expressing a desire
to live faithful, to be dilligent in good works, and
to prove worthy of their high and holy mission
upon the earth.
	The Spirit of the Lord was plainly manifest,
and each one who spoke seemed desirious of be-
ginning the new year with a firm resolve to do
better and live nearer to God. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Prayer by a brother in
the congregation.	
	After the close of the meeting Mrs. E. B.
Wells read the letter which had been addressed
to her from the Woman's Department of the
World's Exposition.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	PLESSINGTON, SECORA CO., NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are a small settlement here, and there
are but few of us. This is a very nice little
place. We have a Relief Society, also a Prim-
ary Association, and the children have im-
proved a little, but there is plenty of opportun-
ity for improvement. We have regular meet-
ings and Sabbath Schools. We have no school
house but there is one started, and we are in
hopes of celebrating the Christmas holidays in
it. This town is improving in buildings. There
is nice farming land here; we raise everything
that is put in the ground in the shape of eat-
ables, all except fruit.
	Your loving sister in the Gospel,
	IDA I. WARDEN.
	November 17, 1884.

	MILL CREEK WARD.
	Our associatton was re-organized August 13,
1884, by Bishop J. C. Hamilton and Counsel-
ors, and Patriarch Alexander Hill, with the
following named officers: Elizabeth Hill,
Prest.; Ann Lemmon and Elizabeth Snedaker,
Counselors; Francis H. Hanson, Secretary;
Araminta North, Treasurer; Albertina J. North,
Asst. Sec. and Treasurer. Mary A. Hamilton,
Janet Park and Ann Morgan, as Directors of
the grain association. There are ninety officers
and members enrolled.
	It was thought advisable to sell the old
wheat and replace it with new wheat; the bin
has been moved to the Bishop's, as a more cen-
tral location for the accomodation of the sisters.
It was done by several of the brethren and
their teams, under the management of our
Bishop. Cash received for wheat sold; $375.-
75; wheat sold, 417 bushels, 29 pounds; bought
in, 507 bushels, 18 pounds; showing an increase
of $89.49; 31 bushels, 38 pounds received by
donation, making a total of 538 bushels, 51
pounds of wheat in teh bin. We have reoeived
very efficient aid from Bro. G. Bailey, clerk of
the ward, for which we return many thanks,
also to any who have assisted in any of the
arrangements.
	Our late respected Bishop, Reuben Miller,
wished the society to make a donation of $200
for the Salt Lake Temple; our last report shows
we have on hand $128.80 of that amount.
	We can report our association to be in a
prosperous condition. The President and her
Counselors are faithful and united in promot-
ing the advancement of the society. The
teachers are alive to their duties; the poor and 
sick are cared for; all calls are cheerfully re-
sponded to. The Bishop and his Counselors
often meet with us, giving good instructions
and words of encouragement. Sister Ara-

[Column 2]
minta E. Hanson and Sister Sarah Waters
have been called by the society to study ob-
stetrics. The ward is greatly in need of sisters
proficient in that branch of science. As a band
of sisters we are trying to do the best we can.
	At our meeting of Dec. 9th, we were visited
by Prest. M. I. Horne, Sisters E. S. Taylor,
H. M. Whitney B. W. Smith and E. Howard,
who addressed the assembly; their instructions
were of a very encouraging nature, and they
thought we were blessed indeed to have the
Bishop and his Counselors and other brethren
take so much interest. Said the Mormon
women had a great work to do; enjoined upon
all the necessity of instructing their children;
spoke upon the principle of plural marriage,
and advised all to sustain the principle; honor
the Priesthood and help to carry out the laws
of God. Were pleased that the Bishop en-
couraged the parents to attend the Young
Ladies' meetings. The Bishop and Counselors
expressed themselves well pleased with the in-
structions from the sisters, and made some very
gook remarks.
	It was a meeting long to be remembered, and
the sisters hope for many more of the same
kind.	ELIZABETH HILL President,
	FRANCIS H. HANSON, Sec.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quaterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 26,
1884, commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding. Opened by singing, "Know this
that every soul is free," etc.; Prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor; Singing, "The time is far spent."
Minutes of May Conference were read by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and accepted; roll of presidents
called, after which the wards were represented
verbally as follows: First Ward, Coun. Margar-
et Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor; Third,
Prest. E. Wiler, Fourth, Teacher Mary Ann
Hadley; Fifth, no report; Sixth, Prest. Rhoda
Fullmer; Seventh, Prest. Mary Alice Lambert;
Eighth, Prest. E. B. Fletcher; Ninth, Prest.
Sarah Groo; Tenth, Teacher Elizabeth Paul;
Eleventh, Coun. Jane Lawson; Twelfth, Prest.
Julia Druce; Thirteenth, Prest. Rachel Grant;
Fourteenth, Prest. Agnes Shwartz; Fifteenth,
Teacher Mary Grey, Sixteenth, Coun. Fisher;
Seventeenth, Secretary Lydia Alder; Eigh-
teenth, no report; Nineteenth,  Prest. Rachel
Whipple; Twentieth, Coun. Owens; Twenty-first
Teacher Mary Davis; Farmer's Ward, Prest.
Emma Woodruff; Brighton, Sec. Agnes Jones;
Riverton, Jane Silcox.
	Prest Horne made some suggestions to the
officers of the several branches, and gave some
instructions to teachers; thought their calling a
very important one and urged them to carry
with them the Spirit of God to discern light
from darkness. Spoke of the storing of wheat
and entreated the sisters to avail themselves of
these abundant years of plenty and store up
grain against a day of need. After many good
remarks calculated to interest and strengthen
the faith of those engaged in labora of either
a spiritual or temporal nature.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 p.m., sang
Doxology, dismissed with prayer by E. B.
Wells.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. opened with sing-
ing, "How often in sweet meditation;" Prayer
by Mrs. Sarah M. Ktmball; singing, "Mid
scenes of confusion." Mrs. E. B. Wells read
minutes of September Conference, which were
approved. Prest. Horne called officers from
various country wards. North Jordan Ward
was reported by Coun. Mary Bennion; Sister
Cooper, West Jordan; Sugar House, by one
of the members.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor in the course of her re-
marks said: It is thought women are not good


[Column 1]

financiers, but it seems those associated in the
Relief Society have done a great deal, and with
small means; and said much more in regard to
their building, taking care of the poor and the
sick. Also alluded to the increase of our
numbers, not only by emigration, but through
the offspring of the Latter-day Saints. Spoke
of the opposition to our labors and that preju-
dice against women's organizations was gradu-
ally wearing away; and said many other good
things.
	Sister P. L. Kimball alluded to the remark-
able events now transpiring, the fulfilment of
prophecies, and the beautiful manifestations that
had been received by those laboring in the Lo-
gan Temple for the redemption of their dead.
She had visited several of the settlements
North and met with the sisters in their meet-
ings, found them doing an active work in their
local organizations. Spoke of the way in
which woman had been considered in past ages
and of the opportunities for knowledge and ad-
vancement she enjoyed to-day.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball in the course of her
remarks said, the sisters are increasing in faith
and in the ability to handle means and this is
favorable; for if we are faithful over a few
things we have the promise of more, and we
have proven that the blessing of God has been
upon the Relief Society. It had a small be-
ginning and we had much to humiliate us, but
thank God for the degree of standing we have
attained and for success in our endeavors.
	Spoke of the tact necessary to bestow help upon
those in need without hurting them; thought
all these things required wisdom.
	Sister B. W. Smith thought the times would
grow better and that the saints would be more
happy; we ought to be wise, watchful, prayer-
ful, and if we had to contend for our rights we
would appreciate them all the more.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke of her desire to
do whatever the could to aid in the great work
the sisters were doing; she felt that it was a
good place to be instructed, and those that
came there ought to do something more than
just to be represented. She enjoyed meeting
with her sisters and was determined to perse-
vere.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of her desire to
make more rapid progress in the new year and
to do better; had made many new resolves;
thought we ought to be specially kind to for-
eigners and all new comers, and made other
remarks upon the present condition of affairs
here.
	Prest. Horne presented some business mat-
ters and spoke of the great blessing it is to ob-
tain knowledge of the things of God. Encour-
aged the sisters in good works; urged them to
attend to their duties in the Relief Society and
prayed God to bless them.
	Dr. E. S. Barney having been called to the
stand, said she had been devoting the most of
her time for the last four months in searching
genealogical records in the Historian's Office for
the names of Stevens, it being her father's
name; she was gathering all she could find on
both continents, expecting to have those of
that name assist in doing the work for the
dead when the record is completed. It is in
accordance to Scripture to perform ordinances
for the dead. It is this that the saints are
building temples for. Of course we will have
to get together our records and be diligent in
getting them before they are destroyed by fires
and calamities of different kinds that are sure
to come upon the nations. Prest. Richards has
kindly proffered a gratutious access to his gen-
ealogical library in the Historian's Office for
the saints. He has published also a list of re-
cords of families in the Deseret News, but
many names are found in the Index of those
families that are associated with them by
intermarrying that he could not publish, but

[Column 2]

they can be found by taking sufficient time.
Work of this kind cannot be done in a hurry,
but time must be given to it, as one would if
studying arithmetic. When these records are
compiled then each can refer to the record of
his own name and lineage and work from
them, then it can easily be seen what is fin-
ished. All of that name, though different fam-
ilies, will run back into the one family. This
will save a great deal of trouble and confusion.
We should keep our records. She knew of
families that do not keep a record of the birth
of their own children. She heard a letter read
from a poor family of ten in the old country,
and they were in a state of great destitution;
but we are here where there is no lack but an
abundance. Organization as we have it here is
beautiful; united we stand: divided we fall.
When we hear the reports read of the many
thousands of children under eight years of age,
it seems as though Zion was growing and the
blessings of life and health are with us.  When 
we were but a handful, driven from our homes,
living in sod houses on the hillside to protect
us from the cold of winter, instead of using
our tallow candles to make our hut cheerful,
we were thankful if we had one to grease our
frying pans with, our food, though coarse, our
fare, though hard, we enjoyed with a relish
and peace that God only gives, and we can tell
the world with all their apposing influence
that we know on whom we lean.

Y. L. M. I. A. S. L. STAKE.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference
of S. L. Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 27,
1884, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer, the
minutes of previous conference were read by
the secretary and accepted. Prest. Freeze
then called upon the presidents to report their
respective associations. The following wards
were reported: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 10th,
11th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 21st,
Sugar House, Big Cottonwood and Union.
	Prest. Freeze said, I am pleased to see the
young sisters come forward and report their as-
sociations; they are gaining ground and will
continue to improve; expressed herself very
well satisfied with the reports and urged the
young ladies to try to make their meetings in-
teresting and attractive, said she thought the
best meetings were testimony meetings, and
that when the spirit of our religion was more
fully grown in our hearts that we would do
away with our programme. Believed in form-
ing good resolutions; said we find thus by
watching ourselves how weak we are; said if
we would refrain from speaking of persons in
their absence except as we would in their pres-
ence, it would be a great point gained. Spoke
against round dancing and gave some other
good counsel. Referred to her having chosen
Miss Nellie Colebrook as her counselor, and
asked the young ladies, as she felt sure she was
the right person for the place, to sustain her.
Spoke of the necessity of a Stake fund.
	Counselor Nellie Colebrook occupied a short
time, referred to the difference in standing be-
fore the sisters to address them by the right
spirit and the actress reading the words of an-
other aright. Referred to spiritual influence,
and spoke of her happiness in reflecting that
she had been an obedient girl to her parents,
and exhorted the young to obedience to par-
ents and to authorities.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp gave a sketch of her trip
north, and protested in her remarks against
skating rinks as injurious to health, as well as
injurious in other ways.
	Coun. Mattie Horne Tingey thought if the
young ladies remembered half they had heard
it would advance them a long way towards
perfection; thought if we had not a testimony

[Column 3]

it was our own fault, for the Lord expects us to
seek for it. Let us seek after the Spirit of God.
Let us control our thoughts lest we speak or
do wrong, every one has a right to a certain
portion of revelation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor congratulated Prest.
Freeze on her choice of a counselor; thought
presidents in choosing counselors should seek
those that were congenial to them. Spoke upon
obedience, felt that there had been great pro-
gress made by the young ladies; referred to the
reading in the associations and recommended
them to read from the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon, denounced fictitious literature, and said
we want that which will cultivate the Spirit of
the Lord. We drink in the spirit of what we
read.
	Prest. Freeze in her closing remarks advised
the associations not to forget their Hospital
dues. Thought concerts were preferable to
dancing parties.
	Conference adjourned for three months; sing-
ing; benediction by Prest. Louie Felt.

PRIMARY, S. L. STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference convened in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall, Dec, 27, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. Elien C. Clawson presiding. Opened by
singing "Dearest Children;" Prayer by Sister
Jennie McLean; singing, "Hope of Israel."
Minutes were read and accepted. Mrs. M.
James reported that in the Seventh Ward Pri-
mary they had what they called an emigra-
tion fund and hoped to be able to send for a
child to come to Zion very soon. Miss L. Ed-
monds said that in the Tenth Ward if the
officers were not present the children would
carry on the meetings, said it had taught her a
lesson not to postpone their meetings for any-
thing. Mrs. Clawson reported the Twelfth
Ward as improving and increasing in numbers.
Mrs. L. A. Wells reported the Thirteenth
Ward, and stated that they had a varied pro-
gramme and a complete organization.
	A song was then sung by four little girls of
the 20th Ward, entitled "God bless Papa."
Mrs. Clara Cannon of the 14th Ward said she
had been sick and not able to attend her meet-
ings of late, but was much interested in the
work and wanted to see the children improve.
A very little girl from the 20th ward recited
a piece entitled "Darling Nestlings." Mrs.
Morris, 15th Ward, said their Primary was do-
ing very well; they had a very nice party on
Thanksgiving Day, and spoke of a little orphan
girl in the ward that was a beautiful dancer,
and the children had made her a nice present.
The children sang in concert "Word of Wis-
dom."
	Mrs. Herridge gave a good report of the 16th
ward Primary, and Mrs. Toone of the 20th.
Two little girls sang, "Let us all speak kindly
to each other." Mrs. McGhie, Sugar House
Primary, told how they had taken the chil-
dren in the summer to see an old lady who was
blind, and one of the little boys bore his testi-
mony, which gave the blind woman great joy.
Mrs. Sutherland of Big Cottonwood said their
association had made a quilt, and pieced it
all themselves. The children were all very
anxious to come to their meetings. A little
girl from the 15th ward sang "Welcome, wel-
come, Sabbath morning"
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks and re-
minded the children of the Fair that would be
held next fall.
	A little girl from the 16th ward recited a
piece, "When we are standing on the thresh-
old." Two boys from the 10th ward sang,
"Rally round the flag, boys." Coun. Lydia
Ann Wells urged the children to pray in the
morning as well as the evening; said she no-
ticed that few of the presidents said amen at
the close of their remarks; told them she heard
Apostle Lyman say that every one should say


Amen at the close of remarks; made other sug
gestions.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Children sang "The Lord's Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Elder R. Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs Matilda Joslyn Gage lately addressed
the "Political Equality Club, of Albany," N.
Y.
	"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has a furnished
house assigned to her at New Orleans, by the
Committee of the Exhibit."
	A Scotch colony consisting of about 2,000
persons is now being organized to go to Los
Angeles, Cal.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has been speaking in
Wisconsin since her return from Iowa, and will
continue until the end of the month.
	Mrs. Helen Jackson has gone to Los Angeles
for the winter. Her story "Ramona" is every-
where recognized as a notable achievement in
literature.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball started the Western
Reserve School of Design, in Cleveland, O. It
was founded for women, but several young men
have been admitted.
	Mrs. Mary L. Leonard has been admitted to
practice in the courts of Washington Territory,
and is said to be the first woman who has pur-
sued the study of law in the Northwest.
	The eightieth birthday of Mrs. Mary
Thompson Willard was celebrated recently by
Miss Frances E. Willard and Mrs. Mary B.
Willard, her daughter and daughter-in-law,
who gave a reception in her honor. "Her chil-
dren rise up and call her blessed."
	The friends of Oliver Johnson, the well
known abolitionist, gave him a reception at
New York the fifth inst., on the seventy-fifth
anniversary of his birth. Several hundred in-
vitations were sent out; among others, to
John G. Whittier, Rev. Samuel May, William
Lloyd Garrison, and others, of Boston and vi-
cinity.
	Miss Kate Field has become the possessor
of a perfect copy of the first edition of the
Book of Mormon, published at Palmyra, in
New York, in 1830. Its title page announces
Joseph Smith as "author and proprietor" of the
book, held to be the word of God. Later edi-
tions omit this statement.—Inter Ocean.
	The Married Women's Property Rights Law
of Vermont was secured by the persevering,
noble effort of Ron. H. C. Ide, senator from
Caledonia Co. A bill similar to the new law
was introduced into the Vermont Senate by
this gentleman two years ago, passed that body
but was lost in the House. This year the bill
was again introduced by Senator Ide, and has
become a law.
	The active opponents of women meddling in
politics (such as write us to-day on the women's
influence in our city election) must begin to
feel like Mrs. Partington on the sea beach in
a flood ride rising on a northeast gale, on read-
ing in the morning news that in Germany, of
all enlightened countries under the sun, Bis-
marck, of all the politicians in that country, is
invoking the aid of the women to operate upon
public opinion and public affairs. If in Ger-
many, where they still harness a woman and a
horse or a dog together to a cart. and in the
highest circles expect her to keep silent and
mind her knitting when men are talking, the
greatest political bully of all Christendom calls
on women to come into politics and help him,
what shall not come to pass in woman-ridden
America?—Boston Transcript.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Like to a summer butterfly,
	Or sunshine on a winter's day,
Dear friend, you ever welcome arc—
	Welcome as first flowers of May.

You fill my heart with Christian love,
	Teach me a fuller trust in God;
Tell me all hear say tales to prove—
	Weigh and measure by God's own world. 

Dear EXPONENT—aye! exponent
	Of mankind's higher, truer life;
Of noble work, of sweet content
	In duty's path midst joy or strife.

Across prairies, o'er the plains,
	You come, dear friend, as heaven sent,
Sweet as their own wild flower's perfume;
	Welcome, thrice welcome, dear EXPONENT.
		EMILY SCOTT.
Ohio, Dec. 15, 1884.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a letter from an obscure sis-
ter like myself might be acceptable, I proceed
to pen a few lines.
	I often wonder what I am here for, when I
see so many of my sisters hard at work, either
trying to spread the Gospel or trying to defend
it so nobly. And then it seems as though I
am ashamed of myself for allowing such un-
grateful thoughts to enter my mind. We are
all here to fill up the measure of our creation
in one way or another. A little poem I once
read comes to my mind. "He Knoweth," be-
ing the title of the poem.

	"There are flow'rets in the valleys low,
		And over the mountain side.
	Which were never praised by human voice,
		Nor by human eyes descried.

	Yet as sweet as the breath of the royal rose,
		Is the perfume they exhale;
	And why they bloom, or where they bloom,
		The good Lord knoweth well."

	Yes, the good Lord knoweth well. There is
no need for any one to feel dejected or cast
down, for our Creator has ordained all things
in His own wise way.
	Last evening as I sat reading an aged sister
living near me came in to while away an hour
or two. I read to her out of the little EXPON-
ENT; you should have seen her face as it lighted
up with enthusiasm as I read to her "Mormon
Women," by Aunt Hannah; Aunt Em's
"Reverie," also that beautiful poem, entitled,
"A Christmas Gift," and others that were alike
interesting. As I read I could not but make
the comment, "The degraded women of Utah,
Ind[-]ed!" One has only to take up the little
EXPONENT if they want to see such cruel as-
persions contradicted. As the sweet perfume
of flowers that are wafted to us by some soft
summer breeze, calms and soothes our turbulent
spirits, so do the grand and lofty thoughts ex-
pressed in the EXPONENT by our sweet sisters,
lull and soothe all intelligent readers.
	SISTER IDA.


The following patents have been issued to
women during the two weeks ending Dec. 30, 
1884.
	Susan T. Burkhead, Newbern, North Caro-
lina, Corset.
	Mary Couplin, Thomburg, Iowa, Milkcan
Elevator.
	Clara O. Bilinski, Diamond Lake, Ill.,
Clothes Sprinkler.
	Camille A. Faure, Paris, France, Polariza-
tion Battery or Electric Accumulator.
	Agnes W. H. Smith, Beaver Dam, Wis.,
Milk Can.


THE PLACE
TO BUY BEAUTIFUL AND ARTISTIC
Home Made Valentines
IS AT
C. R. SAVAGE'S ART BAZAR.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.

H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.

And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auberbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1885	NO. 17.


BRIDAL TRIBUTE. 

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO——THEY KNOW
WHOM.

We wish you all the happiness
	That in a wedded life can be.
Obtained through constant faithfulness
	For time and all eternity.

Within a Temple's sacred shrine,
	When knelt beside an altar there,
By rite performed as God enjoins,
	You two became a wedded pair. 

Commenced aright:—now step by step
	The upward leading track pursue;
Should obstacles arise, look up
	And keep the royal end in view. 

Let God be first in all your thoughts—
	To do His will your highest aim; 
And if obedient to His laws,
	His special blessings you may claim.

New obligations wait you now,
	As wedded souls two joined as one;
Your separate int'rests all combine,
	Though in two lives your duties run.

To form connubial happiness,
	Let love commingle with respect;
And undissembling honesty
	A mutual confidence protect.

And now our blessing we extend
	In wishing you the rich behest
That noble deeds and efforts bring,
	And say, "In blessing be you blest."

	E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Dec. 20th, 1884.


LINES ON THE DEATH OF ELDER
ENOS LIONEL STOOKEY.

COMPOSED ON THE EVENING OF HIS BURIAL, AND
RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO HIS MOTHER.

In the spring the flowers will bloom again,
	The air be laden with perfume sweet
That the south winds bring of the bursting buds
	That are springing to life 'neath the zephyrs' feet;
The sun will smile on the ice-bound streams
	And send them dancing along their way;
And wonderful treasures of fragrant life
	Come out with the light of each opening day.

<i:'oome out="" with="" the="" light="" of="" each'opening="" day.="" batalaa!="" my="" flower="" that="" t="" loved="" and="" watchd="" "‘tlint="" grew="" to="" d="" prond,="" o’erstiadowlng="" tree,="" fs'jead="" by-="" touch="" spoiler's="" hand—'="" spring="" cannot="" bring="" backtts="" life="" te="" mel:;="" .="" v="" i="" bad="" thought="" hide="" ’neath="" its="" branches="" strong="" cta.="" vifhen="" withering="" heat="" day="" was="" high,="" rest="" in="" bcantlfnl="" shelter="" long,="" as="" bun="" crepf="" down="" way.="" but="" it="" fell,="" untouched="" by="" a="" slow="" decay—="" sweet="" strength="" crashed="" single="" hour,="" 'whilf="" stately="" beauty="" fair="" see,="" 6eemed,frill="" nnirieasnred="" power;="" fre="" who="" trained="" itb="" growth="" j'="" 8tand'here.in="" storm="" onr="" hearts'="" must="" .brave="" -and="" seo="" nothing="" above-="" bat="" btormy="" sky,’="" nothirig="" below="" but-this="" precious="" grave.="" '="" -="" ‘ifd'.l="" lionel—my="" boy—the="" hopes="" are="" hot="" vain—="" arise="" from="" thy="" tear-stained="" bed—="" purer="" an="" endless="" spring,="" ’="" 1="" (="" now="" only="" remember—iriy="" boyll="" dead.,="" v‘="" sirlve="" look="" np="" “father's="" face="" f.="" andread="" frownlngs="" blessing="" hld.,1="" brit,’ah="" cari="" be="" given1="" again="" ,r="" (j="" -like="" lost="" one="" rindcr="" coflln="" lid?="" 0gp,="" make="" us="" patient,wo="" two="" walk'="" l’"with="" weary="" feet="" toward="" gathering="" nighty="" <="" div="">But, alas! my flower that I loved and watched
	Till it grew to a proud, o'ershadowing tree,
Is dead by the touch of the spoiler's hand—
	Spring cannot bring back its life to me.
I had thought to hide 'neath its branches strong
	When the withering heat of my day was high,
And to rest in its beautiful shelter long,
	As the sun of my life crept down the way.

But it fell, untouched by a slow decay—
	Its sweet strength crushed in a single hour,
While its stately beauty was fair to see,
	And its life seemed full of unmeasured power;
And we who trained it and loved its growth
	Stand here in the storm our hearts must brave
And see nothing above but a stormy sky,
	And nothing below but this precious grave.

Lionel—my boy—the hopes are not vain—
	The hopes that arise from thy tear-stained bed—
Of a purer life in an endless spring,
	But now I only remember—my boy is dead.
I strive to look up in our Father's face
	And read in its frownings a blessing hid.
But ah! can a blessing be given again
	Like that lost one under the coffin lid!

O, God make us patient, we two who walk
	With weary feet toward the gathering night,


With this strange, deep grief like a shadowy cloud
	Shutting away all of earth's sweet light.
We would ask no greater boon than this
	Of the Father who pitied our anguish deep,
Than to walk in the path His life has marked,
	Then lie down at His side and forget to weep.

		LAUREL B. 
Sunnyside, Dec. 21, 1884.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG. 

Continued

	"The same night the prisoners, Gilbert, Mor-
ley and Corrill, were liberated from jail that
they might confer with their brethren and try
to negotiate some measure for peace, and on
their return to jail about two o'clock Tuesday
morning in the custody of the sheriff an armed
force of six or seven men stood near the jail
and hailed them; they were answered by the
sheriff, who gave his name and the names of
his prisoners, crying, "Don't fire, don't fire; the
prisoners are in my charge," etc. They, how-
ever, fired one or two guns, when Morley and
Corrill retreated, but Gilbert stood, with sever-
al guns presented at him, firmly held by the
sheriff. Two, more desperate than the rest, at-
tempted to shoot, but one of their guns flashed
and the other missed fire. Gilbert was then
knocked down by Thomas Wilson, a grocer in
the village. About this time a few of the in-
habitants arrived and Gilbert entered jail, from
which he, with three of his brethren, were lib-
erated about sunrise, without further prosecu-
tion of the trial.
	"On the morning of the 5th of Nov. the vil-
lage began to be crowded with individuals
from different parts of the county with guns, etc.
And report said the militia had been called out
under the sanction or instigation of Lieut. Gov.
Boggs; and that one Col. Pitcher had the com-
mand. Among this militia (so called) were
embodied the most conspicuous characters of
the mob; and it may truly be said that the ap-
pearance of the ranks of the body was well
calculated to excite suspicion of their horrible
designs. Very early on the same morning
several branches of the Church received intelli-
gence that a number of their brethren were in
prison and the determination of the mob was
to kill them; and that the branch of the church
near the village of Independence was in immi-
nent danger, as the main body of the mob was
gathered at that place. In this critical situa-
tion about one hundred of the Saints from dif-
ferent branches volunteered for the protection
of their brethren near Independence and pro-
ceeded on the road toward Independence and
halted about a mile west of the village, where
they awaited further information concerning
the movements of the mob.
	"They soon learned that the prisoners were
not massacred, and that the mob had not fallen
upon the branch of the church near Indepen-
dence as was expected. They were also in-
formed that the militia had been called out for
their protection, but in this they placed but lit-
tle confidence, for the body congregated had
every appearance of a county mob; which sub-
sequent events fully verified in a majority of
said body. On application to Col. Pitcher it
was found that there was no alternative but for
the church to leave the county forthwith, and
to deliver into his hands certain men to be

[Column 2]

tried for murder, said to have been committed
by them in the battle the evening before. The
arms of the Saints were also demanded by Col.
Pitcher. Among the committee appointed to
receive the arms of the church were several of
the most unrelenting of the July committee,
who had directed in the demolishing of the
printing office, and the personal injuries of that
day; namely, Henry Chiles, Abner Staples and
Lewis Franklin, who have not ceased to pursue
the saints from the first to the last with feelings
of the most hostile kind. These unexpected
requisitions of the Col. made him appear like
one standing at the head of civil and military
law, taking a stretch beyond the constitutional
limits of our Republic.
	"Rather than have submitted to these unrea-
sonable requirements the saints would have
shed their blood in the defense of their rights,
the liberties of their country and their wives
and children; but the fear of violating law in
resisting this pretended militia, and the flatter-
ing assurances of protection and honorable
usage promised by Lieut. Gov. Boggs, in whom
they had reposed confidence up to this period.
induced them to submit, believing that he did
not tolerate so gross a violation of all law as
has been practiced in Jackson Co. But the
great change that may appear to some in the
views, designs and craft of this man, to rob an
innocent people of their arms by stratagem,and
leave more than one thousand defenceless men,
women and children to be driven from their
homes among strangers in a strange land of, to
appearances, barbarians, to seek shelter from
the stormy blasts of winter's cold embrace, is
so glaringly exposed in the sequel that all
earth and hell cannot deny that a baser knave,
a greater traitor, and a more wholesale butch-
er or murderer of mankind never went untried,
etc. 
	"The conduct of Col. Lucas and Pitcher had
long proven them to be open and avowed ene-
mies. Both of these men had their names at-
tached to the mob circular as early as July,
the object of which was to drive the saints
from Jackson Co. With assurances from the
Lieut. Gov. and others that the object was to
disarm the combatants on both sides, and that
peace would be the result, the brethren surren-
dered their arms to the number of fifty or up-
wards, and the men present who were accused
of being in the battle the evening before gave
themselves up for trial. After detaining them
one day and night on a pretended trial for
murder, in which time they were threatened,
brickbatted, etc. Col. Pitcher, after receiving
a watch from one of the prisoners to satisfy
costs, etc., took them into a cornfield and said
to them, "clear."
	"After the surrender of their arms, which
were used only in self-defense; the neighboring
tribes of Indians in times of war, let loose
upon the women and children could not have
appeared more hideous and terrific than did
the companies of ruffians who went in various
directions, well armed, on foot and on horse-
back, bursting into houses without fear, know-
ing their arms were secured, frightening dis-
tracted women with what they would do to
their husbands if they could catch them, warn-
ing women and children to flee immediately or
they would tear their houses down over their
heads and massacre them before night. At the
head of one of these companies appeared the
Rev. Isaac Mc.Coy, with a gun upon his shoul-
der, ordering the saints to leave the county


forthwith and surrender what arms they had.
Other pretended preachers of the Gospel took
a conspicuous part in the persecution, calling
the Mormons the common enemy of mankind,
and exulting in their afflictions.
	"On the 6th of Nov. women and children 
fled in every direction from the merciless mob.
One party of about one hundred and fifty
women and children fled to the prairie, where
they wandered for several days, under the
broad canopy of heaven, with about six men
to protect them. Other parties fled to the
Missouri River, and to lodgings for the night
where they could find it. One Mr. Bennett
opened his house for a night's shelter to a wan-
dering company of distressed women and chil-
dren who were fleeing to the river. During
this dispersion of the women and children, par-
ties of the mob were hunting the men, firing
upon some, tying up and whipping others, and
some they pursued upon horses several miles."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE GRANGER FAMILY.

FROM THE "PHELPS CITIZEN"

	We are indebted to our former townsman,
Gamaliel Case, of Sodus, for the following cor-
respondence. The lady, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, was the daughter of Oliver Granger and
grand daughter of Pierce Granger, both of
whom were born in Phelps:—Ed.
	LOGAN, Cache Co., Utah, Aug. 24, 1884.
MR. GAMALIEL CASE—DEAR COUSIN:
	I realize that this will be a strange message
to you, from a strange messenger.
	I learned by letter from our departed cousin,
Mrs. Pomeroy, that you knew of my visit to
Phelps and Newark last year.
	Uncle Elihu of Michigan told me of your
being in Sodus. I much desired to see you, but
all seemed so strange that I failed to accom-
plish it.
	One important object that I had in visiting
my native state, was to gather records of my
kindred dead. I could better explain to you
in person than on paper why I wish these re-
cords. I hardly hope to be able to make you
comprehend the importance this matter has for
me. You must know something of the pecul-
iar people with whom I have chosen to cast my
lot. One of our peculiarities is, we build Tem-
ples to the name of the God of heaven and
earth. They are built at great expense and
dedicated to the Most High. We enter there-
in and attend to ordinances most sacred, for
ourselves and such as we consider our worthy
dead. For instance, last Tuesday I enjoyed
the to me blessed privilege of entering the
Logan Temple font and being baptized by one
having authority, for your mother, my great
aunt, Sally Granger Case. Wednesday I re-
ceived endowments and blessings in the Tem-
ple for and in her behalf.
	At a future time I hope to officiate in seal-
ings and further ordinances for her. The seal-
ing ordinance is the eternal order of marriage,
or marriage for eternity.
	To complete the record of my work I want
you to send me the date and place of your
mother's birth and death. We are so peculiar
as to believe that what is properly done and
recorded in the Temples of our God will be re-
corded in heaven, and these are some of the
books from which we shall be judged.
	However absurd this may appear to you,
please gratify me by sending such names and
dates of your branch of the Granger family,
who are dead, as you can gather.
	I learned in Phelps that you had a pamph-
let containing an account of the early settlers
of that town. If you would be kind enough
to send it to me I will return it if you wish.
	If there is any one interested in me, my re-
gards to them.

[Column 2]

	I write at a venture not knowing whether it
will reach you. Logan is 100 miles north of
my home. I expect to remain here only one
week more for the present. This is the nearest
Temple to my home that is finished. Six years
ago I went to St. George Temple 300 miles
south and worked for my dead four months.
	I shall feel anxious to know whether you re-
ceive this so please drop me a line at once.
	Very respectfully your cousin,
		S. M. KIMBALL.

REPLY
MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL—DEAR COUSIN:
	Yours of the 24th of August last, came to
my home while I was on a visit to Old Ply-
mouth Bay, where the Pilgrim Fathers first
landed, where I remained some time with rela-
tives. After my return home your letter was
handed me, and indeed it was a strange message
and from a strange messenger.
	I did not write you immediately, for the
reason I had not quite all the dates you re-
quested. You ask to know of the honored
dead of the Granger family, of their birth,
death, etc. I cheerfully comply so far as I have
it, for indeed we sprung from a noble ancestry.
I copy the following from Elisha Granger's old
Bible as it lies before me in his own hand writ-
ing:

	Births of the children of Elisha Granger by Sarah
his wife.
	Elisha, born Feb. 23, 1768.
	Pierce, born Aug. 23, 1769.
	Elihu, born April 30, 1771.
	Sarah, born March 26, 1773.
	Eliphaz, born Feb. 9, 1775.
	Sarah my wife departed this life Feb. 15, 1775.

	Next, the death of my grandfather's second
wife, but I have no account of the death of his
third wife. And then follows his own death
who was your own great grandfather, as taken
from the tombstones in the old burial ground
in Vienna (Phelps), that he bought and gave
to the Methodists for a church lot and burial
ground and the Methodist church stands on
the same site to-day:

In Memory of
Hannah
the wife of Elisha Granger
 Who departed this life
June 26, 1807, in the
73d year of her age.

In Memory of 
Mr. Elisha Granger
who died April 12, 1821,
aged 77 years, 9 months and 9 days.

	Next I give the epitaph of your own dear
grandmother:

Sacred to the Memory of
Mrs. Clarisa Granger
the wife of Pierce Granger, Esq.,
who died Aug., 1813, in the
40th year of her age.

	Next, that of your Aunt Apamy, a noble
Christian woman:

Apamy,
wife of Elihu Granger
who died July 21, 1853
aged 8l years.

	This brings me to notice the death of your
Aunt Sarah Granger Case, as you call her, my
own dear departed mother. She died at my
house, the old homestead, Oct. 6, 1843, aged
70 years and six months. She was named
after my noble grandmother and you bear not
only the name of my mother but of that noble
grandmother that gave birth to our Granger
family, but died as you see by the above rec-
ord, leaving her young family and a babe six
days old.
	We turn next to our noble Christian grand-
father, your great grandfather, and note what

[Column 3]

he done with all those motherless children. In
a proper time he looked out a mother for
them, and did not let the animal part of man
predominate by running after some young girl,
but procured a mother that was ten years older
than himself to help bring up his children.
This was a noble act on his part. He was con-
verted under Jesse Lee, of Conn., and Lee
gave him license to preach. I have often seen
the license in his old family Bible. They
brought up their family in a Christian way
under all the disadvantages of a new country,
he being with his three oldest boys, the second
settler in the town of Phelps. That first sum-
mer in one of the settlements a person died and
our grandfather preached the funeral sermon,
the first one ever preached in Phelps, which
was in 1789. But in the fall they went back
to Connecticut, and did not move on with
their families until the next year.
	Our grandfather bought 1000 acres in
Phelps and 1000 acres in Sodus and placed
his children on his lands, but this was not
enough for him to do. He and his wife would
get up meetings in private houses, and camp
meetings, for at that time there were no
churches, and in answer to the prayers of their
father and mother, their children were all con-
verted, and your grandfather, my uncle Pierce,
who was also a local preacher in the Methodist
church, besides he was a Justice of the Peace,
and no person of his time was more favorably
spoken of, even to this day by all that knew
him.
	I do not find any record of my much loved
uncle Pierce Granger, he died in the west and
I hope you may be able to find it. I feel under
great obligation to my beloved grandfather and
my uncle Pierce and I regard them our worthy
dead. Have you any Temple font and endow-
ment blessing that could be secured in their
behalf as well? They were both married here,
one having three wives and the other two, but
not but one at a time.
	Of course, I am not aware of any celestial
marriage, or whether there is any for men, if
they are equally good. But so far as I have
been permitted in my limited experience to ob-
serve, I have noticed that those who took to
themselves more wives than one were not con-
sidered to be the best type of men; this holds
equally true among the ministry in the differ-
ent evangelical denominations. But you may
have become acquainted with a better class of
ministers among your "peculiar people," who
are trying to obey the teaching that a Bishop
should be the husband of one wife, etc.
	I have not the pamphlet of which you speak.
My grandfather's family were all born in old
Simsbury, Conn. If any further information
is desired please ask, and if you ever come this
way again I will be glad to see you,
	Yours, etc.
		GAMALIEL CASE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Those interested in fair play for woman
ought to give the best attention for a few mo-
ments to Mr. King, the new president of the
Erie Railway. In very properly reducing the
enormous expenses of that corporation he cut
down all salaries, or nearly all;but in doing so,
instead of making the scale of reduction uni-
form in the same line of service, he reduced
the salaries of women employees 30 per cent.,
while those of men doing corresponding duty
and receiving about the same rates of pay were
reduced only 15 per cent. It would be inter-
esting to know what Mrs. King—if there be a
Mrs. King—thinks of this sort of discrimina-
tion against the sex to which she and the
mother of her husband belong."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WELCOME HOME!

ADDRESSED TO BROTHER BEN. BENNETT,
BY HIS WIFE.

Welcome, oh, welcome, to home and to me,
And thy children’s fond hearts have a welcome for
	thee!
Thy friends and thy neighbors will gather around,
And from brothers and sisters the welcome resound;
Thy mother will meet thee with welcome most kind
And from nephews and nieces a welcome thou'lt find.
My heart has been lonely while waiting to hear
The signal to tell me thy coming was near,
And, oh, how it beat when I saw by the press
That thou wert returning thy children to bless;
With thy precepts to guide them, thy fond love to
	cheer,
Thy presence to shield them from terror,or fear;
They will tell how they missed you when prayer time
	came 'round,
And they yearned for a look, or a smile, or a sound
Of thy voice to encourage, to soothe, or restrain.
To share their young joys and their faith to sustain;
Even baby has seemed for her father to mourn,
And daily looked forward to papa's return—
She was "going to Salt Lake to meet him," she said—
Twas her first thought at morn and her last going to
	bed;
And now she will see him—I scarce can believe
That thou art returning my cares to relieve;
To share in our pleasures, to chase our weak fears,
To brighten our smiles, and to dry up our tears,
To pray with us, talk with us, tell where thou hast
	been,
And give us an outline of what thou hast seen.
In the long winter evenings how good it will be
To feel I have round me my children and thee:
To see thy kind smile, feel the press of thy hand,
See thee mingle again with thy little home band
When their voices in praise to their Father on high
Are lifted in thanks that their papa is nigh,
And they ask to be granted this one prayer more,
That father’s long absence for some time is o'er,
And. across the broad ocean no more he may roam,
But his mission in future be nearer to home.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The next inportant event was the arrival
of Almon W. Babbet and wife from Nauvoo,
This was on the evening of the 6th. He brought
considerable news; said the mob had complete
possession of the place, the Temple and all.
They had several mock ceremonies with differ-
ent individuals—had baptized Daniel Davis
three times. He saw Bishop Whitney, who
barely escaped, and was obliged to leave Nau-
voo secretly and speedily for St. Louis. He
stated that the mob had plundered numbers of
buildings, among which was the house of Bro.
Joseph Heywood, who was stripped of nearly
everything he possessed. They had defaced
the Temple considerably, both inside and out.
The shore of the city and all the approaches to
the city were strictly guarded to prevent the
ingress of "Mormons," and when any man was
found they immediately baptized him and sent
him over into Iowa. Mr. Babbet was advised
by the council, which had met to arrange some
difficulty between some of the brethren, to re-
main with us, but he seemed not very anxious
to do it.
	On the morning of the 9th he and wife
started back. Little John Smith, who had
come from Nauvoo with my father's family,
went with them to meet his mother, who was
about 150 miles back, near Mount Pisgah.
My husband mentions the death of Miss Eliza
A. Peirson, a niece of Dr. Richards, at his tent,
on the evening of the 10th.
	He says:  "She had left father and mother
far behind to join the Saints of God, in the
wilderness, to suffer and die among them for

[Column 2]

the Gospel's sake. She was a worthy, exem-
plary young woman, and the remembrance of
the many happy hours I have spent in her so-
ciety, together with her sisters and friends, will
never be obliterated while time shall last. She
was from Richmond, Massachusetts, where I
became acquainted with her during my sojourn
in the Eastern States."
	Under the same date is written the following:
"I. Redding returned from the Pawnee village
this evening, whither he had been by appoint-
ment to assist some families to remove back
here, whom Bishop Miller had left sick and
destitute." Bishop Miller had now become a
confirmed apostate. He had drawn away a
few weak and disaffected persons and some,
who, like himself, were corrupt at heart. They
were afterwards distinguished as Millerites.
Many of those who had traveled in his camp
returned to head quarters.
	On the 13th Horace speaks of a large camp
of Omahaws making considerable noise and
tumult in the village below, having received
their payment from the United States. "The
amount of money paid to them is $50,000,
which was brought up by land accompanied by
a guard of twelve men.
It is said that the Indians are killing our cat-
tle in great numbers below here, and they have
been here with beef to sell; no doubt the relics
of some of our cattle."
	On the evening of the 14th my uncle, Wm.
Murray, Bro. Harvey Green and Mr. Hovey
arrived from Nauvoo with their families, some
of them being very sick. They had been
three weeks on the road. They brought addi-
tional news, and according to their statements
the mob was pretty busy plundering houses,
ripping open feather beds and scattering the
contents in the street, knocking the horns from
the oxen on which the font was built, and run-
ning about the streets imitating the blowing of
horns with them and doing other acts of sac-
rilege. They had also torn down the altars
and pulpits in the Temple, and converted the
edifice into a meat market. The same spirit is
rampant to-day, and threats of a similar
character have been made by our enemies for
years past, but have been restrained by Him
who has said: "Thus far shalt thou go and no
further."
	But to return: On the 15th Horace wrote,
"Bro. W. Woodruff was brought into the
camp this afternoon from the woods severely
injured by the fall of a tree. Prest. Young,
Bro. Kimball, O. Pratt, Dr. Richards and
Joseph Young laid hands on him, after which
he appeared much relieved." He speaks of
Bro. Pond and family arriving on the 16th,
and all being quite sick with the ague. Con-
cerning the Omahaws he says, "They are lo-
cated about ten miles below here, where they
intend to remain this winter. They have had
for some time in contemplation a grand buf-
falo hunt, which they have abandoned in ex-
pectation of living and sustaining themselves
by the killing of our cattle instead, which they
are frequently detected in driving off."
	Sunday, the 18th, the weathar being toler-
able meeting was held at the stand. "The sub-
ject of our molestation by the Indians was
taken into consideration. It was thought to
be necessary to build our houses in a more
compact body and form our wagons in a circle,
that we might be better able to defend our-
selves against their encroachments. This was
the advice given by the interpreter who at-
tended meeting with some Indians at the stand."
It was further deemed proper to send out dif-
ferent companies in different directions after
the cattle. The companies were organized,
each consisting of twenty-one men. Brother
Winslow Farr, Z. Pulsipher and J. Redding
were appointed to go on the same business, as
captains of companies.

[Column 3]

	On Tuesday morning a general turnout was
made to go and drive in the cattle, in conform-
ity with the arrangements made at the meet-
ing. They spent a number of days hunting
them, and all that were found were put into
Father Cutler's yard, which was appointed as
the place of rendezvous, where the brethren
might come and each select his own cattle. In
the afternoon of the same day, the men who
were left in camp were summoned to go down
on the bottom and put out a fire, which was
raging greatly, and had already burnt a num-
ber of hay stacks. "But," Horace says "not-
withstanding all our efforts, we could not en-
tirely subdue it.	*	*	Brother
Kimball went and burnt round our stack in
order to sa ve it. The brethren at last suc-
ceeded in turning the fire in such a direction
that it should not do much injury."


A GENTILE DR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think it is high time that I express my
thanks for your very good little paper, the Ex-
ponent, which I have received since I had the
pleasure of meeting Mrs. Richards and her son
at Washington.
	I have often thought I would pen a few
words from this way down East; whether it will
encourage or discourage is not for me to say.
I am often called upon to express an opinion
in regard to the condition of the Mormons, as
it is well known that I have been with them a
short time, and have frequently expressed an
opinion, especially in regard to polygamy as I
understand the same. As you probably are
aware that women are the greatest defamers of
women, such are those I meet and present to
them the better elements of the practice of
polygamy than the surroundings throughout
the world among all other so-called religionists.
The moral principles, to all intents and pur-
poses, seem to have passed away; there are few
exceptions. We find among the clergy, priests
and deacons of all sects, as well as the general-
ity of men and women, care only for self-grati-
fication, leaving their offspring to be murdered
or picked up by the police and sent to the
foundling asylums, and the mother (whom the
laws do not recognize) men have decoyed and
destroyed. These women, girls,are driven into
suicide, or a worse life while they live; the man
is free, legally irresponsible,while the girl is an
outcast.
	Bigamy is better than seduction. Those who
make laws are those who defile them; we need
laws enacted that will hold all classes, and all
sects, religionists and non-religionists. That
all men can have one wife; if they desire more
than one they must be equally responsible to
each and all, provide for them and the chil-
dren, and all equally recognized and legiti-
mate. This is the only plan to create morality
in the world.
		Dr. C. A. Von Cort.
New York.


ERRORS.—In the R. S. Report from Mill
Creek 89, 49, should read 89 bushels and 49
pounds; and in the place of Araminta E. Han-
son and Sarah Waters, should read Amanda
E. Harmon and Sarah Walters.
	In January 1, No. 15 of the EXPONENT, in
the Auutobiography of Emily D. P. Youug, an
error occurs which we feel called upon to cor-
rect. In the second column, 5th paragraph,
the word prevented should have read presented;
also the name of Brareal should be Brazeal,
and in the first chapter the name Jackson
should have been Jackman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten opics for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50; par month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I, Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher	WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

MARVELOUS TIMES.

	Who ran say that these are not marvelous
times and big with wonderful events? Every
day some startling development is made that
makes one conscious of the fact that these are
the times that try men's souls to the very cen-
tre. With all the accidents of the nineteenth
century nothiug is so effectually calculated to
prove a destructive agency for the wicked and
ungodly as the invention and manufacture of
dynamite. What may not be accomplished by
this terrible agent of destruction when manipu-
lated by cruel, designing and unscrupulous men
or women, though we instinctively shrink from
the acknowledgement, yet women have been
proven equally cruel with men when occasion
required urgent action. For instance, in the
French Revolution, and in the case of "Shake-
speare's Lady Macbeth."
	The recent explosion in London has opened
the eyes of many who sat in darkness on this
subject, and that was no doubt only an experi-
ment, and ere long the nations will awaken to
the coneciousness of the astounding fact that
when there was seeming security, they were
treading upon dangerous ground that might at
any moment explode and swallow them up.
Secret societies, combinations and organizations
are banding themselves together for certain pur-
poses, and it would seem the time is fast ap
proaching when every man's hand will be
against his neighbor, and he who will not take
up his sword must needs flee to Zion.
	The war in Egypt has carried off its thousands
and tens of thousands already, and still it is in
progress. The terrible avalanches in Italy have
carried terror and desolation through a large por-
tion of that beautiful country, and left thou-
sands homeless and destitute, as well as burying
an unnumbered multitude alive. In our own
land cyclones in the south have frightened
many and destroyed much property; and storms,
shipwrecks and accidents and the like by
sea and by land are of every-day occurrence.
	In the mean time, how is it with the Latter-
day Saints? They are being persecuted by their
enemies, wickedness waxeth strong in high
places and in the hearts of the rulers of the na-
tion, the evil one is on the alert, knowing that
his time is short. The servants of the Most
High are being persecuted and driven to ex-
tremities, and the very principles of heaven are
being used as a weapon against the Saints to
banishment and imprisonment. Men who have
laid their all upon the altar for Christ's sake,
men who have endured much persecution here-
tofore, are taken up on the slightest pretext, and
their liberties jeopardized, their families intimi-
dated if possible and every indignity heaped
upon them until it seems more than human na-
ture can bear,

[Column 2]

	Ths recent cases that have been before the
courts here have been treated in such a way that
it makes one feel there is no such thing as jus-
tice and equity to be obtained, but only a deter-
mination to push to the very extreme those who
by some unforeseen circumstance or incident
have fallen into the hands of their enemies, who
are like ravenous wolves ready to devour all that
comes in their way and are ever on the alert for
more. They seem to forget the slippery places
on which they themselves stand, and the glass
houses in which they live; and while their eyes
have enormous beams in them, they are probing
for the mote that is in their neighbor's.
	But swift destruction awaits all such and they
will be overtaken as a thief in the night, and
will cry for help and none will hear.
	The way in which the officials, Prosecuting
Attorney and his assistants, have questioned
young women in the examinations that have
been made before the Commissioners is a dis-
grace. The most indelicate and obnoxious ques-
tions are put to innocent, pure-minded young
girls. How much longer this sort of thing can
be endured it is impossible to say. At present a
vigorous effort is being made by those in power
here to afflict and annoy peaceable citizens.
Next week will be a busy one for these con-
temptible deputies,and every woman who values
her honor wllf no doubt do her best to protect
herself from being confronted by one of them.
On the slightest pretext they serve a subpoena
and no one knows then, what his or her fate
may be.
	The statement or decision, if it can be so
called, made in the case of President Angus M.
Cannon is the weakest article one could imag-
ine. The Commissioner does not base his as-
sertion upon the evidence at all, but upon sup-
position, which it seems to any one possessing
ordinary common sense to be contrary to all law;
all deductions drawn are, or should be, accord-
ing to evidence and not supposition. But as
this is more persecution than prosecution, it will
of course pass muster, even though men’s liber-
ties are at stake; they are "Mormons," and that
accounts for it—these civilizers, regenerators,
purifiers, who are so anxious the laws should be
enforced, care no more for purity of morals than
they do for a pure atmosphere to breathe in,the
fumes of tobacco and whiskey in and around
theFederal court room are positively nauseating.
One cannot help thinking of the remark of Rev.
Olympia Brown, who said the aristocracy of
power was that of the moustache, whose insig-
nia was the spittoon, whose home was the smok-
ing car, and whose outward sign was the curling
tobacco smoke, etc., and with all propriety one
might add the fumes of whiskey.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS JOHN T. CAINE and Mrs. Franklin S.
Richards attended the recent Convention of
the National Woman’s Suffrage Association in
Washington.
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M I. A. and P. A. should bear in mind that the
semi-annual reports will soon be wanted now
for the Stake Conference.
	MRS. M. O. Kelting of California writes—
, 'Continue to sen[-] your dear little messenger to
my address. I find it like a little white-winged
comforter in my lonely moments and I pray that
[-]he angels of heaven and earth may continue to
bless and encourage the EXPONENT.”
	WE have had the pleasure of seeing a bust of
President Brigham Young, executed by one of
Utah’s young sculptors, Harry B[-]own of Logan.
It is life-like indeed. The peculiar expression
of the mouth and nose, and indeed of every fea

[Column 2]
ture; the very pose of the face is perfect, and the
smallest detail is perceptible. We congratulate
Bro. Brown on the wonderful success he has
made in developing his subject. It is an encour-
aging fact that Utah is making some considera-
ble progress in the direction of art cultivation.
	WE have received a sample copy of a new
magazine, entitled "Babyhood,”   edited by
Marion Harland, which is sufficient in itself to
recommend it. But as we have examined and
read it carefully we feel sure it is a work of mer
it and one that will assuredly recommend itself
to all who read it. It gives pleasant and happy
advice to mothers in reference to little ones and
makes timely and appropriate suggestions on
the topics connected with babyhood and mother-
hood.  Price:$1.50 per year, published in New
York City.
	THE news of the musical success of young
Edwards of Willard City, in competition
with so many professionals and compos-
ers from various parts of the world, is
quite startling. It must be a source of im 
mense satisfaction to the youthful author, and
It certainly should be considered an honor to all
who love Utah and are proud of her sons to
know that there is so much real musical talent
beginning to be developed, It proves the falsity
of the statements that Mormoniam chokes out
progress in every direction.
	WE have received from Washington the
“Brief and Argument” of George G. Vess,
Wayne Mac Veagh, Franklin S. Richards and
Charles W. Bennett for Appellant, Mary Ann
M. Pratt vs. Alexander Ramsey, A. S.  Paddock,
G. L Godfrey, A B. Carleton, J. R. Pettigrew,
E D. Hoge and John S. Lindsay, Appellees.
Supreme Court of the United States, October
Term, 1884. We have not yet had time to read
it carefully but from a casual perusal judge it to
be a very able and conclusive argument in favor
of the lady. It would be well for the sisters to
take pains to read up on theese subjects that are
of such importance to this people, that they
maybe thoroughly posted in matters pertaining
to the possession of the franchise, also property
rights, etc
	WE have also received in pamphlet form the
"Legislative Commission Scheme," the title of
the address of Hon. John T. Caine, delivered
in the People’s Mass Meeting, held in the Thea-
tre Nov. 3, 1884. It is a well-written and logi-
cal statement of facts, and eve y woman inter
ested in the condition of affairs should read it
carefully.
	A very pleasant ladies' tea party was given
at the Davereux House on Thursday, Jan 29,
by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, who is a most enter-
taining and hospitable hostess. There were be-
tween thirty and forty la[--]es present, most of
them widows and missionaries’ wives. The
supper was very handsomely served, the table
being very beautifully decorated with fragrant
flowers. Mr and Mrs. Jennings as host and
hostess cannot be excelled. The afternoon and
evening were spent by the ladles in social con-
versation, and every one seemed to intensely
enjoy the visit. Davereux House is a beautiful
modern mansion, and with its large, and ele-
gant parlors, commodious dining apartments,
and handsome and complete library, conserva-
tory and other luxuries, possesses all the advan-
tages of a refined and luxurious home. We
heartily wish its inmates long life and health
to enjoy the blessings with which they are sur-
rounded.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG'S birthday was
yesterady, Ja[-]. 31st. She was sixty-four years
of age. We congratulate her and wish her
many happy returns of the day and hope she
may enjoy life as fully and completely as she can
wish. Our readers are doubtless aware that she


has for some time past been officiating in the
Logan Temple. She expects shortly to take a
trip to Cascade Falls, Oregon, where her son,
Lieut. Willard Young, is at present stationed.
	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH'S birthday
passed off very quietly. She received those who
called to congratulate her in her parlor at the
Lion House. The honored lady has now reached
the advanced age of 81 years. Her health is ex-
cellent, her faculties unimpaired; indeed her
memory seems as bright and perfect as ever,and
her mind as clear and active as it ever has been;
she still continues to write and works more
hours in the day than most young people. We
congratulate Sister Eliza on reaching her eighty-
first year and hope she may have many happy
returns of the day, with health and prosperity
and happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IMPORTANT DECISION.

THE JUDGMENT OF THE TERRITORIAL SUPREME
COURT AFFIRMED.

	WASHINGTON, January 19.—The Supreme
Court has rendered a decision in the
polygamy case of Rudger Clawson, ap-
pellant vs. the United States, an appeal
from the Supreme Court of Utah. Clawson
appellant, having been found guilty by a
jury of the crime of polygamy, and unlawful
cohabitation, was duly sentenced to pay a fine
aggregating $800 and imprisonment for four
years. He appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and pending judgment on such
appeal, applied to the Court that sentenced him
for release upon suitable b[-]nds. The judge de-
nied application, on the ground that the defend-
ant ought not to be admitted to bail after con-
viction and sentence, unless some extraordinary
reason had been given. Clawson thereupon
sued out a writ of habeas corpus in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and prayed for release,
upon the ground that the Court below had un-
lawfully refused to admit him to bail. The Su-
preme Court overruled the petition and remand-
ed the prisoner to the custody of the Marshal,
whereupon he took the present appeal to this
court. This court holds that inasmuch as the
judgment of the Third Judicial Court, in which
the prisoner was tried, did not impose upon him
a fine only, but also imprisonment, his admission
to bail, pending appeal from that judgment, is
distinctly committed by the laws of Utah to the
discretion of the court or judge to whom appli-
cation for bail may be made. The Supreme
Court of Utah was, therefore, right in overrul-
ing the petition and remanding the prisoner to
the custody of the Marshal, and its judgment is
affirmed.
	Justices Miller and Field dissented.


[Column 1]

WATCHERS, WHAT OF THE HOUR?

	"The Lord, He is God!" for myself I acknowll
edge no other power; He has His agents—oppos-
ing elements there must be—and we see them
at work, The Savior said: "It must needs be
that offences come, but woe be to them by whom
they come." Some rejoice to do evil, rejoice to
afflict the righteous; such are ready instruments
for the offences named—hence we see there is no
injustice, for all may choose their own path,
therefore in the day of judgment they will stand
with their hand on their mouth, they preferred
works of darkness rather than light, therefore
they have their reward; their own conscience-
will be their judge.
	We live in a day and an hour when the most
light-minded must have their moments of seri-

[Column 2]

ous thought, I refer to L. D. S. especially, though
the thinking minds of the world are also at this
time posed to their full tension; but we have
done with the world. The Church and King-
dom of God is our world, and in that is full oc-
cupation for a true L. D. S.—first to look to
themselves, that their own door step is clean
and their own hearth bright and shining, made
so by a good heart, an eye single and a con
science void of offense towards God and towards
His creatures. The path of Saints was never
in any age a path of roses, only such as
the sunshine of the Holy Spirit can cause them
to produce and strew day by day on their indi-
vidual pathway, and this they have the tact and
the power to accomplish so that it is the warmth
and the sunshine and the fragrance of the same
that beautifies their life and makes even the
shades to be illumined. One would imagine such
a people would be beloved, would be admired as
worthy of imitation, especially by those calling
themselves Christians. Strange, passing strange
that such should excite "envy, hatred, malice
and all uncharitableness" in these "orthodox
Christians."
	Stay—are such Christians? Let me take the
New Testament and see how Christ organized
His church on earth during His brief mission on
the same. I read and realize that modern
Christianity is a libel, almost a burlesque; yea,
quite a burlesque, when I consider it in all its
phases, a mere ghost of that pure, simple, un-
adorned church of which Christ laid the foun-
dation, and then in His own person established
its living principles. All who read its records
intelligently must know that "comparisons are
odious" in such a review.
	The problem of the 19th century is simply a
restoration of this identical church, with all its
rights and ordinances and endowments estab-
lished again upon the earth by the Lord Him-
self calling out a youth as His Prophet, and
teaching him by His own mouth and Spirit how
again to re-organize His church upon the earth.
This God's truth was preached—thousaads glad
ly embraced it, souls that were hungering and
thirsting for the word of God. But there and
then rose up the opposing spirits and drove out
the embryo church again into the wilderness.
They traveled to a desert of sagebrush far away
from civilization and there they laid the founda-
tion of a city and of a territory without gold or-
silver, simply by the "sweat of the brow" and
the intelligence that God had freely given them;
and by the aid of His Spirit upholding them for
years they continued building homes, a place of
worship, and it was for years a home of saints,
as far as human nature can attain that title.
No saloon, no house of ill-fame, no place for sin
to establish itself contaminated its soil; peace,
union and sobriety reigned within its borders,
it grew, it increased in knowledge, wisdom and
understanding; missionaries were sent abroad;
the honest poor, and some rich rushed "as doves
to the window." Utah became a name—God
smiled upon her and blest the labors of the
honest, who left their homes like Abraham of
old to serve and worship Him exactly and pre-
cisely as the Savior laid down while on His
brief mission to this earth.
	Thousands from every land and clime flocked
to the standard erected in the mountains, ac-
cording to ancient prophecy. Utah, the one
word floating upon her banner; when behold
they were invaded by those who smelt gold and
riches of all kinds in this wonderful Utah. Mer-
chants rushed in with their merchandise of
every kind; soon they established the saloon as
a necessary appendage, and soon, behold the
demi monde flaunting through our streets, and
then came the railroad with its appendages, and
the very face of nature was changed—and so

[Column 3]

they get possession of homes, the land of which
had been prepared by the L. D. S., and instead
of stretching out the hand of neighborhood they
from the first laid plans to "oust the Mormons"
and usurp their homes and their possessions; and
not only so, but abuse, malign, traduce, and
even besiege Congress to raise the iron hand
upon this industrious, faithful, loyal people, and
strip them of those rights the glorious Constitu-
tion guarantees to all beneath her flag. Why is
this? The innocent, honest-minded ask. Read
the history of Christ while on the earth and
you will see "history repeats itself." Yet it
gives a solution nothing else can give of the
wherefore and why that this people are now so
cruelly persecuted. If infidels require a test of
the truth of ancient Scripture, let them read the
history of the latter day work—Christ's Church
re-established upon the earth, and their minds
must be opaque indeed if they do not see history
repeating itself, even like the voice of revelation.
Like those of old the saints cry out, Lord, how
long? Give us strength to endure to the end.
	HANNAH T. KING.


"THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR
IS HARD."

	They say, "Who seeth us and who knoweth
us?" God knows and sees all things, and all
things that we do he takes cogn zance of, and we
"are rewarded for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil."
	How necessary, then, that we do right and
not transgress God's laws and commandments,
for He cannot look upon sin with the least de-
gree of allowance. If we go into the secret
chamber to commit sin the word of the Lord
says, "It shall be revealed upon the house tops,
for the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not
His Saints; they are preserved forever: but the
seed of the wicked shall be cut off" "The
righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell there-
in forever." "The wicked watcheth the right-
eous and seeketh to slay him." Psalms 37th
chapter, 29th and 32nd verses.
	Oh! how great are the promises of the Lord to
the righteous. The Psalmist again says, "I have
not seen them forsaken nor their seed begging
bread," These are the days of repentance and
turning away from sin, that we may become a
sanctified people, waiting for the Lord's appear-
ing.
	Acts, 3rd chapter, 20th verse: "And He shall
send Jesus Christ, which before was preached
unto you." "Whom the heavens must receive
until the time of the restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of His
Holy Prophets since the world began." And as
the men of Galilee were looking up into heaven
the angels said, "This same Jesus which is
taken up from you into heaven shall so come in
like manner as ye have seen Him go into hea-
ven."
	Now, the Lord has been very merciful to the
inhabitants of the earth, and sent His holy
angels to warn them of judgments that are now
coming thick and fast, to repent of their sins,
accept of the true Gospel and prepare for His
coming again to the earth. It seems, indeed,
strange to me that people will persecute the
Latter-day Saints, because they promulgate the
true Gospel of the former-day Saints. The
Priesthood had to be restored by revelation, and
was—to Joseph Smith. He received the plates
on which the Book of Mormon was written, and
translated it by the gift and power of God. The
Urim and Thummin he received also, which
cons[-]itut[-]d him a seer and revelator, and a great
prophet to the world of mankind. God gave
him the greatest knowledge of doctrine, of prin-
ciples and history, of any man on the earth. He


gazed into the past and knew how to arrange
prophecy, he was active in the present to estab-
lish the Church of Christ, with that unity of
faith, which is the world's wonder, without
flaws, cross, or clashing of sentiment. His
knowledge of the future led his mind beyond
the grave to comprehend the immortal destiny
of God's creation. The work that be did could
not have been done without the aid of our
Father above. Joseph Smith was rejected be-
cause he was poor and because he testified to
the truth as God showed it unto him; and as
God's ways are not like man's ways, to which
the world cannot conform, no more than the un-
godly could to Christ's teachings,when He came
to the Jews. The Lord says He will do a strange
work and a wonder; and again, He says, He will
do nothing except He reve[-]leth Himself to His
servants the prophets. Then how can He do
His work on the earth without a prophet? Says
the unbeliever, "We need no more of these
things." If this be true, then God will be silent
forever and infidelity reign triumphant. We
must no more peruse the sacred book and believe
in its inspired pages. Its unfailing prophecies
in the past mark definitely its fulfilment in the
future, and as God is an unchangable being, He
will bring about His purposes in the same plain
and comprehensive manner as He has done in
all ages of the past.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 16th annual convention of the National
Woman's Association has just terminated, and
in the main has been a success, though there
was imminent danger of disruption, to an ex-
tent, at least for a time. The convention was
held in the "Church of our Father"—Universal-
ist. The attendance throughout does not seem
to have bean as large generally as the year pre-
ceding—that is, attendance of people not actual-
ly members. This decrease, however, is proba-
bly due to the fact that the place ot meeting was
not so centrally located as is Lincoln Hall,
where the meetings had been held heretofore,
and could not be reached within several squares
by the street cars, the cold weather also may
have had the effect of lessening the number
present. However, in the evenings there were
generally as many as could comfortably be
seated, and the meetings were spirited and cal-
culated in the main to awaken a greater interest
in the movement and to furnish convincing
proof of its justice to those who may still enter-
tain doubts on the subject.
	Six sessions were held, two each day, begin-
ning at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.,beginning on Tuesday
and continuing through Wednesday and Thurs-
day. The afternoons were devoted to reports
speeches and addresses; the evenings to ad-
dresses only, and while some were inclined to
weakness, there were many noticeable for depth
and breadth.
	The first meeting of the convention was
opened by invocation by Rev. Alex. Kent. On
the stand, platform or pulpit were seated Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Matilda
J. Gage, Ellen S.Fray, Caroline G. Rogers, El-
len H. Sheldon, Lillie D. Blake, and others,
while close about the platform were ladies iden-
tified with the movement who were more or less
prominent. The opening address was delivered
by Mrs. Stanton. She spoke in congratulatory
terms of the assemblage and the progress of the
work, ard said if men were not capable of mak-
ing cities and towns safe for youths to live in,
then they had better give way and see what
women could do. The women of the Republic

[Column 2]

had not done their duty so far in not taking
pains to see that their husbands were interested
in the subject and had formed an opinion on it.
Mrs. Stanton asked them to make up for lost
time. The members of each profession were
willing that woman should enter all others but
their own, though she had shown her ability to
shine in them all.
	Lillie D Blake gave a report of the work in
New York and made some extended remarks.
The way to stop opposition was to kill off those
who opposed the work. She told how she and
others had worked to defeat the election of as-
semblymen who had opposed the suffrage move-
ment as members of the State Legislature; and
called attention to the success with which their
efforts had met in killing these men politically
who worked against them and condemned them
to that death from which there was no res-
urrection. Every woman, she said, could
control at least one vote. Borne were
married, others would, she hoped, be
so soon, but if no such influences were
possible, then she should go to her groceryman
and others with whom she dealt and see that
he was in favor of the movement and would
support it with his vote, or she would give her
custom to some one that was in sympathy with
the cause.
	Sarah M. Perkins made a very able report of
the work done in Ohio, and she told graphically
how the Woman's Christian Temperance Union
had by a prayer been brought to espouse the
cause of woman's suffrage and make that cause its
own ,for the reason that the Temperance could
never hope to accomplish any permanent good
until woman, by the ballot, could say that the
dram shop 'round the corner, which was des-
troying her darling boys, should be forever
closed.
	Mrs. Perkins was followed by Frances E. Barr,
who reported work in Connecticut. The report,
while mainly encouaaging, was not as satifac-
tory as could be desired.
	Mrs. Harriet Shattuck of Malden, Mass.,gave
an address on "What Woman's Suffrage
Means." She went on to show that responsi-
bilities multiplied upon men and they were the
better for it, and that year by year duty upon
duty have been added to women and she had
ever qualified herself for it. The whole subject
was centred in the word—responsibility, and
while women already had many she wanted one
more—that of suffrage. She ridiculed, and ably
too, the idea that disqualification should be in-
sisted upon because of sex, and argued such a
conclusion to a logical conclusion, showing the
utter absurdity of such a position.
	Resolutions were then read, and it was stated
they would be open for discussion on the follow-
ing afternoon.


NEW YEAR'S RECEPTION.

	Sister E. R. S. Smith spent the Holidays iu
Brigham City. During her visit here she at-
tended several of our meetings and social gath-
erings and contributed much to their profit and
social enjoyment.
	On New Year's day a reception was held in
Prest. Lorenzo Snow's residence in honor of our
esteemed sister, under the supervision of Prest.
Minnie J. Snow, assisted by her counselor, Miss
Freddie Widerborg. One hundred ladies from
different wards of the city, members of the R.
S. and Y. L. M. I. Associations, in groups of
twenty five arrived at various intervals during
the day. As each party of guests appeared they
were cordially received, introduced and seated
in the parlor, where Sister E. R. S. Smith gave
expression to her surprise and appreciation of


this unexpected honor. Indulging a short time
in social conversation, many reminiscences of
by-gone days were related. At the expiration
of the time thus pleasantly employed, all re-
paired to the dining hall, surrounded the taste-
fully spread tables to partake of refreshments.
Here toasts, sentiments, etc., enlivened the
scene. Every succeeding company took Sister
E. R. S. S. unawares, as she supposed each de-
parture completed the day's surprises.
	One feature of the occasion was of peculiar in-
terest; the last party were Scandinavians, many
of whom were advanced in years, their counte-
nances radiant with joy as with faltering step
they advanced, to greet their esteemed friend.
At the table the kind wishes and pleasing senti-
ments offered in their native tongue, were inter-
preted by Sister Mary Stars, their President
and el[-]cted hearty and appropriate responses
from Sister E. R. S. S. and our generous hostess.
So passed the day: the occasion cheered and
made happy many hearts, and we all realized
the truthfulness of the proverb—"In blessing we
are blest."	M.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

	GARDEN CITY, Rich Co., Jan. 15,1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking perhaps a few items from our north-
ern country would be welcome, I will try to pen
a few lines.
	I can truly say that your valuable little paper
is an ever welcome guest; we read it and enjoy
the instructions therein. And while we are en-
joying peace here, for which we feel thankful,
we do not know for how long a time. When I
read of what is termed legal proceedings with
our brethren in different places, many of them
born legal heirs to the Constitution for which
our forefathers fought and bled, I can but ex-
claim, Where, oh, where has liberty fled? They,
for the exercise of their religious faith, are put
into prison and fined; whereas, our glorious
Constitution guarantees unto all religions to en-
joy that right. It was written by inspiration,
and has prepared the way for the bringing to
pass the purposes of the Lord in establishing our
holy religion upon the earth in these the last
days. Then let us all, sisters, pray earnestly
unto the Lord to hasten the time when our
brethren may be removed from prison and re-
turned to their families and the bosom of the
Church, which may God grant.
	Our Relief Society in this place is in good
condition; we hold our meetings regularly, and
have the Spirit of God with us. The Young
Ladies' and Primary Associations are in success-
ful operation.
	Praying the Lord to bless you and give you
strength for your great labor, and for the differ-
ent societies and associations, I am your sister
in the Gospel,
	ANN E. COOK.


﻿PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]
	Sister Sessions' notes in her diary are most
of them of a personal character; still we find
so many familiar names, it is pleasant to men-
tion one or more incidents connected with her
occupation in those days.
	On the 22nd of February she speaks of hav-
ing attended Sister Lightner, who had a son
born at that time. On the 7th of June Newel
Knight's wife had a daughter born. On the
14th of June her son Peregrine returned from
his mission East. On the 26th of July Orson
Spencer's wife had a daughter. September 27
she ays sthe Governor's troops were there.


[Column 1]

	We pass over the trying scenes of the people
in Nauvoo before and after the death of the
Prophet and his brother. Suffice it to say that
Sister Sessions suffered with the people in sac-
rificing her home, etc., and also mourned much
in her own breast, for she had the most pro-
found admiration and respect for him as the
Prophet of God.
	The Temple meantime was finished and dedi-
cated, and Bro. and Sister Sessions received
their endowments therein. They had assisted
in building it all in their power,and those were
days when the people were poor and persecut-
ed and had much to endure.
	The exodus from Nauvoo was an important
event, not only in the history of this Church,
but in the annals of the American nation, and
it will ever be a disgrace in the records of the
United States, where so much boast has been
made of freedom and religious liberty. We
pass on now to Sister Sessions' description of
leaving that beautiful city, and give it in her
own words:
	"Feb. 10, 1846, Nauvoo, or the City of
Joseph. My things are now packed ready for
the West, this afternoon I attended to the ac-
couchement of Mrs. Harriet Young; she had a
son. On the 11th I went to the Hall to see the
panorama of the massacre, as shown by Bro.
Dibble. 12th. This morning we bade our
children good-bye, camping at Sugar Creek,
where the exiles had made a sort of gathering
place for teams and wagons previous to start-
ing. Sister Sessions, writes on the 16th: "Pres-
ident Young came into camp this morning; it
is very cold and the wind blows hard and I
can scarcely get near the fire for smoke and we
have no tent. 17th. The brethren have begun
to organize and we go in the first hundred,sec-
ond ten, Prest. Young's company, Capt. Hol-
man."
	The weather continued severe; it was the
month of February and the people had just
left warm, comfortable homes. On the 22nd
Sister Sessions speaks of having visited Louisa
Beamen and Eliza R. Snow. On the 23rd Bro.
Sessions got canvas for a tent and Sister Ses-
sions made it herself. During the few days
they were in camp several children were born,
Sister Sessions attending some of the sisters in
their confinements.
	The last day of February the camp began to
move on slowly; the weather was inclement and
there were various difficulties and hindrances.
Sister Sessions speaks of having to drive the
team every now and then, because the cow gets
lost and her husband goes to hunt for it. On
the 16th Sister Sessions says she visited Sister
Zina D. with Sister Eliza R., and on the 22nd
she writes they cross the Shariton River; here
everybody had to double teams to get up the
bank and all the wagons had to have ropes at-
tached to them to drag them. It was at that
place she speaks of Sister Zina D. having a
son born. The weather was cold and wet and
the roads were so bad it was almost impossible
to travel.
	On the 6th of April she writes: "President
Young came into camp driving his own team,
then lighted a fire as happy as a king." That
night there came up a fearful thunder storm,
and at 2 o'clock in the morning Sister Sessions
was called up, a brother had come two miles
on horseback to fetch her, she rode back be-
hind him on the horse through the storm, the
mud and the water sometimes belly deep to the
horse; the child was born before the husband
and midwife arrived. The sister had traveled
13 miles after her sickness came on,had crossed
a creek on a log after dark, the storm had
carried the bridge away, and camped in an old
deserted log cabin. In such places as these
by the wayside many little ones were born that
are now fathers and mothers of families, though
many died as well as many of the mothers who
could not endure the hardships and fatigue.

[Column 2]

Sister Sessions' journal gives many items in re-
gard to building the bridges and difficulties
which hindered the onward progress of the
camp of Israel. Sometimes the teams would
get lost and the brethren would have to go out
hunting for them. Sister Sessions often men-
tions in her journal of dividing the little she
had with others who had still less, also of walk-
ing miles and miles, day after day, because the
teams were weak and they were short of food
for them. On the 19th there was a public
meeting, the first one called after leaving Nau-
voo.
	"Saturday, May 2. It has rained continu-
ously for six days and my bed has been wet
all the time; to-day I got my bed out to dry for
the first time." Sunday she writes it was rain-
ing hard again. Friday, 8th, she writes: "over-
hauled our wagons and sent off a saddle and
harness to sell; weighed our load, the weight
was 1,321 pounds, 551 is provisions, and we
have been dividing out ever since we started."
On the 10th she said they had a meeting and
the sacrament administered. "Thursday, 12th,
visited Sister Horne, who was sick, and Sister
Taylor, who was lame."
	The Saints at this time were stopping and
making a settlement; they fenced in some land
into a sort of big field and built some houses,
left some families there to take care of it and
put in a crop to make a sort of resting place
by the way, where those coming later might
find shelter and comfort in their journeyings.
On the 15th she writes in her journal: "Some
brethren from Nauvoo overtook us, they have
only been three weeks on the way and we have
been three months. They bring letters for
the brethren and sisters from relatives and
friends left behind."
	Monday, 25th, Sister Sessions says she was
feeling very bad and had been crying, think-
ing of her children she had left in Nauvoo, and
her mother in the State of Maine, and many
little things she had to contend with in her
travels, and Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Markham came up to her wagon and it gave
her great joy to see these sisters. "28th, visited
Eliza Snow and Parley Pratt's folks. 29th.
Sister Rockwood gave me some tallow and I
run seventeen candles, thought it quite a pres-
ent. Lucy Walker arrived here to-day from
Nauvoo. Sunday, 31st, I was called to Parley
Pratt's, Mary had a son."
	At this time the Saints had reached another
stopping place, which was named Mt. Pisgah,
and Sister Sessions on leaving that place says:
"We leave many good brethren and sisters
here, Sisters Horne, E. R. Snow, Zina D. and
Emily P—— and many more. Wednesday,
3rd, she says, "Sister Horne sent on for me, I
went back to Mt. Pisgah and attended to her;
she had a daughter. I rode on horseback
seven miles each way." So she writes from
day to day how they journeyed on, and of the
various hindrances and stopping to make
bridges, etc. On the 28th of June a meeting
was held on the banks of the Missouri river or
the "Bluffs" near, where Dr. Willard Richards
preached to the people and spoke very feeling-
ly of its being the anniversary two years since
of his coming into Nauvoo with the bodies of
the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum. "Wednes-
day, July 1st, Brigham Young has moved
down to the river, the boat is done ready to
cross."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE
	PROVIDENCE, Cache Co., Jan. 20, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that an article appears in
your valuable little paper from Providence, if
you can spare the space I will inform the read-
﻿
[Column 2]
ers of the EXPONENT how we are progressing
in the work of God.
	The people are trying to live their religion,
and are enjoying a goodly portion of the Spirit
of God. All our associations are in a flour-
ishing condition,and a greater interest is taken
in them now than at any previous time. Our
Primary Association cannot be surpassed.
Every year about a week before Christmas
they have a fair and display all the work they
have done during the past year. All kind of
work is to be seen there, and some of it is real-
ly beautiful. In the morning there is an ex-
amination of all they have learned, and one
cannot help but mark the progress they have
made. It is a lovely sight to see the little ones
clinging to their parents and pointing to some
article they have made and say, “See, mother
I made that! isn’t it pretty?” And a very good
feature of the fair is: parents come and see
what their children have done and do not feel
satisfied until they have purchased it. By do-
ing this the association is supplied with funds
to pay its expenses.
	The Relief Society and Y. L. are progress-
ing favorably. They hold their meetings reg-
ularly, and they are well attended.
	There has been much sickness this winter,
but the health of the people is now good. There
have been a few deaths, however, and among
those who have passed from the troubles and
sorrows of this life are Sisters Lovisa Miller
Hammond and Mary Morris Gibbs. Sister
Hammond was the daughter of Daniel and
Clarissa Pond Miller. She was born Oct. 1st,
1834, in Hancock Co., Illinois, and removed
with her parents to this Territory when only a
girl. She was married to M. D. Hammond on
the 11th of Dec., 1853, and was the mother of
eleven children, all of whom are living, except
one daughter aged fifteen years, who died two
weeks before her mother. She died Dec. 9th,
1884, and leaves a large family and a wide cir-
cle of friends to mourn her loss. Sister Ham-
mond had been President of the R. S. of this
place for two years, and during that time she
did her utmost to make a good President. All
the members of the society respected and sus-
tained her in her position.
	Sister Gibbs, wife of Richard W. Gibbs, was
born July 15,1821, in the small town of Pon-
tyeats, Caernarthanshire, South Wales, and
was the mother of six children. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in 1845, and from that time to
the time of her emigration to Utah in 1869,her
house was a continual resort for the Elders,
and none ever came who were not welcome, or
did not feel her generous spirit. Sister Gibbs
died very suddenly on the morning of the 14th
of January, not having been sick a minute, to
any one’s knowledge. About seven o’clock
her husband heard her make an unusual noise,
but before he could light a lamp she was dead.
She died as the had lived, a true saint, and
many warm friends mourn her loss.
	The people are enjoying many blessings be-
stowed upon them by their Heavenly Father,
and many manifestations of His power and
goodness are shown  continually in our midst.
I can testify to many instances where He has
made manifest His power in healing my little
children and myself when we have been sick,
and in caring for us and comforting me in my
lonely hours while my husband is on his mis-
sion; and also in caring for my husband,raising
up friends for him, and giving him health and
strength that he may go forth and carry His
word to the honest in heart and teach them the
principles of the Gospel. For all His mercies
and blessings I am truly thaukful and grateful,
and desire to continue a faithful servant in
His Kingdom. 
	ANNE W. SMITH.


KOOSHAREM, Jan. 11, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that you would like to hear from
us in this remote valley, we will give you a
brief sketch of what we are doing.
	Our Society is in as good a condition as we
can wish for; we have a good substantial log
house and a granary attached to it, which will
accommodate us for several years, which has
been dedicated. The sisters all seem to be
alive to their duties and are willing and on
hand to help roll forth this great and mighty
work which we are engaged in,
	Wishing the EXPONENT success, for it is a
welcome visitor in our midst.
	Respectfully,
	MARGARET ANDERSON, Pres.
	ANNIE M. WRIGHT, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


PRIMARY REPORT
		   	
	Minutes of Primary Association of Fifth
Ward, Jan. 14, 1885, Prest. Clark presiding.
Opened by singing“Gather up the Sunbeams;”
Prayer by Prest. Clark; Singing "Nay, speak
no ill.”	Roll called, 57 members present; min-
utes read and accepted. The programme was
then carried out as follows: Recitation by E. 
 Brimley; Recitation, R. Cowan; Song, Mor-
mon Boy,” Roy Palm[-]r; Essay, “Happiness,”
Amy Harper; Reading from Doc. & Cov., Lily
Pettit; Song, “Dare to be a Daniel,” E. Abbott;
Organ Solo, Lizzie Marsden, Duet, Lottie and
Ella Marcroft; Bible Reading, Ernest Brown;
Duet by Lily Appleby and Lizzie Brown.  An
account of the annual meeting was then read,
	Sister Clawson then said that she was
pleased to be present, and especially to see so
many boys, as this spoke well for the future.
Asked how many dismissed meeting, also who
were the Bishop and Counselors of the ward
and Superintendent of Sunday School, which
was answered promptly by members. Spoke
about the necessity of being obedient, polite
and unselfish; hoped all would remember to
pray and be ready to do whatever Sister Clark
desired.
	Sister Ferguson then said Sister Clawson
had praised the boys,but one thing she noticed
was, that their hands were very dirty (when
quite a number put them in their pockets).
Spoke about a story she had heard, where a
little boy whose mother was sick, had prayed
for her, and she recovered through his faith.
Said children’s prayers are sometimes heard
even more than ours, as their prayers are so in-
nocent and they have great faith. Spoke of
the consequences of disobedience. Said honor
thy father and mother was a revelation to
children, and if you are in the path of duty
the Lord will send His guardian angels to pro-
tect you; but if you do wrong the adversary
will tempt you. Asked all to pray for the
Lord to preserve them from every ill.
	Sister Clark then said she hoped all would
remember the instructions which had been
given, and would like  to  see visitors at any
time. 
	Programme was then read; closed by singing
“Love at Home;” Benediction by Sister Claw-
son.


﻿GOOD TIME AT WILLARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Thinking that a few lines from our quiet
little town would not be uninteresting to the
many readers of your valuable paper, we en-
close the following:
	It is a general time of good health among
the people of this place. The holidays have
passed off quietly and pleasantly; especially so
did Christmas day, when a social party was


held under the auspices of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Willard, which was a very enjoyable and
praiseworthy affair.
	At 1:30 o’clock p.m., the invited guests as-
sembled at the hall, which was tastefully de-
corated with mottoes, pictures, etc., for the oc-
casion. At 2 o’clock the afternoon exercises
began, and until 5 p.m those present were en-
tertained with speeches, songs, recitations and
instrumental music, all of which were credit-
ably rendered.	
	The afternoon exercises being over, all were
permitted to partake freely of the contents of
the baskets of the members of the. Y. L. M. I.
A., which were well filled with the bounties of
this earth, so tastefully prepared that none
could refuse partaking of the pleasant repast,
After picnic those present went forth and en-
joyed themselves in the dance until near mid-
night, when all wended their way home im-
pressed with the idea that the day was one not
soon to be forgotten.		
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	MARION.S. PERRY, Prest.,
	LOTTIE E. HUBBARD Cor. Sec.


OBITUARY

	DIED, at St. Johns, Arizona, Sister Harriet Zelnora
Chapman, beloved wife of Elder Welcome Chapham
Deceased was born May 13, 1854, in Sheffield, Yorkshire
England; emigrated in the William Tapscot, 1862, with
her mother and a younger sister. She has been the
mother of four children; only one, a little girl aged 13,
now living. Bro. and Sister Chapman were called to
Arizona on a mission at the last Spring Conference
Early in Octob[-]r Sister Chapman was hooked by a cow
and died ten weeks afterwards from the effects of the
injuries recelved.
	She was a loving daughter, wife and mother: we
mourn her loss, yet feel all is well, with those who have
been faithful and true and have endured unto the end.
May our Heavenly Father shed abroad His Holy Spirit
in the hearts of those who mourn,especially her mother,
Sister Sarah Mc.DonaId of this city, whose heart is
sorely stricken at the loss of her daughter; and may she
remember in this her hour of sorrow the comforting
words of our blessed Savior: “Blessed are they that
mourn, for they shall be comforted"—and the words of
the inspired Prophet of God who said, “Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord; yea, they rest from th[-]ir la-
bors and from henceforth their, works shall follow
them.”—COM.
				
	DIED, at South Cottonwood Ward, Dec. 2nd, 1884,
of a chill, Floy, beloved daughter of Joseph H. and
Nancy E. Proctor; aged ten years and eleven months.
	We, The Primary Association of South Cottonwood
Ward, in view of-the loss we have sustained by the
decease of our friend and associate,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that it is but a just tribute
to the memory of the departed, we offer to the parents
our sincere sympathy, and say, while we mourn the loss
of our dear Floy, we shall look forward with joy to the
time when we shall meet the dead. The angels called
and in ways of an all wise Providence it was that she
should go. Though the days are dark now springtime
will come once more. Thus we trust pleasant days will
come again for you and yours.
	"This lovely bud, so young, so fair,
		Called hence by early doom, 
	Just came to show how sweet a flower
		In paradise would bloom.”
		MRS. ELIZABETH DAVIS, Prest.
		MRS. MARGARET CAHOON,
		MRS. SARAH A. WOOTON,	Counselors. 
And members of the South Cottonwood Ward Primary
Association.
		EMILY E. BRINTON, Secretary.


[Column 1]
	Home-Made Silks!

Home-Made silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
	grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
		MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
	Second House South  of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

[Column 2]
﻿THE PLACE
	TO BUY BEAUTIFUL AND ARTISTIC
Home Made Valentines
	is at	
C. R. SAVAGE’S ART BAZAR.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,	
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS, AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And	an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and, Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1885.


OUR TRUST IS IN GOD.

No one can come between me and my God;
	None can hide from me His glorious face;
But I may walk the path which Jesus trod,
	And unrestrained may seek His love and grace.

Oh, glad assurance! this but proves to me 
	Beyond a doubt my own divinity, 
For though I bend beneath the chastening rod,
	No one can come between me and my God.

No earthly power, no king nor potentate,
	No power of hell can dare to touch the soul 
Immortal, God-like; no one can dictate,
	Or bring the heart’s emotion ’neath control.

The body they may torture and afflict,
	Imprison, take the life which God has given, 
The soul its upward flight cannot restrict
	It will return again to God and heaven.

How vain the plans and schemes of mortal men
	To dare coerce our faith and trust in Him, 
To try to dictate what we shall believe, 
	Or say how much of truth we shall receive.

We neither tremble or defy their power,
	But bravely meet the issues of our cause;
We will not falter in the trying hour;
	Our God will help us to obey His laws.
	E. A. BENNION.
Feb. 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]
	THE PRESENT DAY.
			    	
	FOR THE YOUNG LADIES’ M. I. ASSOCIA-
				  TIONS
				  
	What is the present but the connecting link
between the past and the future?  Through 
and during the present alone we can make the
past improve the future.  All the improve-
ments of civilization have come to us from the
knowledge and proper criticism of the events
of the past, by right-minded and ambitious
men and women.  But for them and their la-
bors the world of to-day would be groaning un-
der the chains of cruel barbarism.  As great
as between noonday and midnight gloom is the
contrast between the Constitutional Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
that of the most enlightened nations of two
centuries ago.  The same can be said of arts
and sciences; we do not hear of a cathedral be-
ing a century in  process of erection.  In less
than a century the improvements, inventions
in all arts and sciences have been multitudin-
our; but how and by whom have they been
brought about?  Not by the drones, who said:
"Let us eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow
we die.”  No, but by men and women whose
education at the school of endurance, hard-
ship and abnegation, has resulted in a stern
sense of duty to future generations, and an un-
quenchable thirst for knowledge. “Knowledge
is power!”  What a theme for reflection! But
I am addressing myself to the young ladies of
Utah on the subject of the present, and the du-
ties and privileges it holds out to them.
	I hope none of my young sisters are igno-
rant of the fact that it is their privilege and duty
to become wives and mothers, and thould there-
fore spend their youth in qualifying themselves
for these important callings.  Do they think
of these things as they meet in their Improve-
ment Associations?  Do they suggest means to
check evil and promote good?  The physical,
intellectual and moral improvement of the

[Column 2]
girls of to-day means the improvement of the
nation in the next generation.
	I do not think that the real object in organ-
izing these associations for young ladies is ever
mentioned in some places, and seldom referred
to in others.  They are for improvement, say
some.  Yes, so are the day schools and Sunday
Schools; but why are young ladies organized
into societies of their own?  That they may
exchange thoughts, make suggestions as to the
best means of retaining their health and vigor,
how to cultivate good manners without affec-
tation, and how to store their minds with use-
ful knowledge without neglecting the most
practical duties of house-wifery. 
	Do not deem me harsh if I make bold to re-
mind you that the children of a sulky, weak-
minded, self-indulgent mother can scarcely be
expected to become fine, intelligent, fearless
men and women.
	Young ladies, do you realize that the work
of regeneration and reform, for the next half
century, depends a great deal upon you, indi-
vidually and collectively?  It is so whether
you realize it or not.  It is for you to decide
whether the men and women of the near future
shall be of the fine physique, sturdy valor and
sterling integrity, or frivolous, slothful and ef-
feminate.  The past is open to you to read and
reflect upon; tha present is the field for you to
labor in, and the future anxiously awaits the
result.
	E. C. FRANCIS.


[Column 1]

PRAYER.

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire."

	Our most inward thoughts and desires, wheth-
er good or evil, are known to the Lord; He
can read our hearts as we can read a printed
book. Then how necessary it is for us to be
pure in our thoughts as well as in our actions.
God is the Father of our spirits; His ears are
always open to the prayers of His children.
What a beautiful, consoling thought to know
that we have a Father in heaven whom we can
approach in our hour of trial and tribulation,
even if we are deserted by all we hold dear
upon earth, knowing that He will never forsake
His children nor leave them comfortless; for
our Savior says, "Ask, and ye shall receive;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you." What
is more easy than this, only to ask and we shall
receive. And we as Saints and daughters of
God know that He has not made this promise
in vain.
	I believe every one of us, if we live as we
should do, can bear testimony to the efficiency
of prayer. How many times has the Lord
heard our prayer in regard to our little ones
when upon a bed of suffering, and restored
them to health according to our prayers and
the desires of our hearts. The Lord says He
knows the desires before asking Him, but He
likes us to ask for what we want, and that in
faith. How many times have the sick been
healed, the deaf made to hear, the lame to
walk, and even the dead raised to life through
the prayer of faith?
	How is it that we are so abundantly blessed
and prospered in these valleys of the moun-
tains, being of so many nationalities. It is
through the prayers and faith of the Saints, for
the Lord loves a prayerful people, and will
protect and bless them. He loves to listen to

[Column 2]

them and to grant their requests. It is not
the length of our prayers that is most accepta-
ble to the Lord, but the earnest desires of a
honest heart. How simple, yet how beautiful,
is the prayer our Savior taught His Disciples,
"Our Father which art in heaven, etc." In
another instance our Savior says: "What things
soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye
receive them and you shall have them; and
when praying forgive if ye have aught against
any, that your Father which is in heaven may
also forgive you your trespasses." He also
says, if we are joyful, to praise Him with sing-
ing, as a song of the heart is a prayer unto the
Lord. We are also told to watch and pray,
lest we enter into temptation.
	What is a more beautiful sight than to see a
little child in pure simplicity kneeling at its
mother's knee offering up a prayer to our
Heavenly Father, and we have read of many
instances where their prayers have been an-
swered, and I believe the Lord hears the
prayer of a little child even quicker than He
does of older people, because they have not
committed any sin, and are therefore pure. But
our Savior tells us to ask and it shall be given;
seek, and ye shall find; and to every one that
knocketh it shall be opened. He also tells us
that the hairs of our head are all numbered,
and that not even a sparrow falls to the ground
without His notice. And in Him we live and
move and have our being.
	Men generally do not believe in these things,
but we as Latter-day Saints know it to be true,
and that there is no safety without prayer.
We read that our Savior Jesus Christ, before
His crucifixion, went into the Garden of Geth-
semane, which is the Mount of Olives, and in
agony He prayed to God that if it were possi-
ble, to let the cup pass; He also took some of
His Disciples with Him and asked them to
watch while He prayed; and while He was
offering His prayer to His Father to sustain
Him in His trying hour, they slumbered and
slept. We find that He did this three times,
and each time He found them asleep. The
third time He said: "Sleep on now and take
your rest, the Son of Man is betrayed into the
hands of sinners."
	If Jesus our Savior had occasion to continu-
ally plead with the Lord for His aid and assist-
ance,how much more necessary it is for us,poor,
weak fallen humanity to pray without ceasing
that the Spirit of God may be our constant
guide and companion through all the joys and
ills of life so that we may be able to stand firm
as the Rock of Ages, holding on to the Rod of
Iron, ever remembering that the Lord is our
friend, that He is a God that is near and not
afar off, that He knows our every thought and
desire, and that He is ever ready to hear and
answer our prayers; and may we ever be able
to say that in life or death we are the Lord's.
	I would then exhort you, my young sisters,
never to neglect or forget your prayers if you
would have the Lord for your friend and
guide, and by obedience to God's laws and
seeking to live nearer unto our Heavenly
Father we may hold communion with holy be-
ings, for there is no blessing the Lord will
withhold from His children if they are only
humble and prayerful.	A. N. B.
	Jan 28, 1885.


London has a Sunday paper, the Age, devot-
ed to gossip, with 50,000  circulation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
		OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
				Continued.
	“On the 5th Elders Phelps, Gilbert and Mc-
Lellin went to Clay Co. and made affidavit
similar to the foregoing sketch and forwarded
the same to the Governor by express; and the
Governor immediately upon the reception
thereof ordered a court of inquiry to be held
in Clay Co. for the purpose of investigating the
whole affair, and meting out justice to all: but
alas!  corruption, wickedness and power have
left the wretches unwhipped of justice, and in-
nocence mourns in tears unwiped.
	“Thursday, Nov. 7th.  The shores began to
be lined on both sides of the ferry with men,
women and children, goods, wagons, boxes,
chests, provisions, etc., while the ferrymen
were busily employed crossing them over. And
when night again closed upon the Saints the
wilderness had much the appearance of a camp
meeting.  Hundreds of people were seen in
every direction, some in tents, and some in the
open air around their fires while the rain de-
scended in torrents.  Husbands were inquiring
for their wives and women for their husbands,
parents for children and children for parents.
Some had the good fortune to escape with
their family, household goods and some provis-
ions, while others knew not the fate of their
friends and had lost all their goods.  The scene
was indescribable, and would have melted the
heart of any people upon earth, except the
blind oppressor and ignorant bigot.  Next day
the company increased, and they were chiefly
engaged in felling small cottonwood trees and
erecting temporary cabins, so that when night
came on they had the appearance of a village
of wigwams, and the night being clear the occu-
pants began to enjoy some degree of comfort.
	“Lieut. Gov. Boggs presented a curious ex-
ternal appearance, yet he was evidently the
head and front of the mob;  for, as may easily
be seen by what follows, no important move
was made without his sanction.  He certainly
was the secret spring of the 20th and 23rd of
July, and, as will appear in the sequel, by his
authority the mob was moulded into militia to
affect by stratagem what he knew as well as
his hellish host could not he done by legal
force.  As Lieut. Gov. he had only to wink
and the mob went from maltreatment to mur-
der.  The horrid calculations of this second
Nero were often developed in away that could
not be mistaken.
	“Early in the morning of the 5th, say at one
o’clock a.m., he came to Phelps, Gilbert and
Partridge and told them to flee for their lives.
Now, unless he had given the order so to do no
one would have attempted to murder after the
Church had agreed to go away.  His con-
science vacillated on its rocky moorings and
gave the secret alarm to those men.  The
Saints who fled took refuge in the neighboring
counties, mostly in Clay Co., which received
them with some degree of kindness.  Those
who fled to the county of Van Buren were
again driven and compelled to flee, and those
who fled to Lafayette Co. were soon expelled,
or the most of them, and had to move wherever
they could find protection."
	It was in Nov., 1833, that my father moved
his family into Clay Co.	We crossed the Mis-
souri river at a ferry not far from Liberty
landing.  Most of father’s provisions were left
in his cellar, not being able to move it on such
short notice.  And thus two years of my child-
hood were spent in Jackson Co., Missouri.  The
brethren cut down, small trees and laid them
up cob fashion, and when they were five or six
feet high they stretched a tent over the top for
a roof.  And such was my home on the bank
of the Missouri river, in the month of Nov.,
1833. I was then in my tenth year.
	On the 13th of Nov., between three and
four o'clock in the morning the camp was
aroused from their slumbers to witness the
beautiful and grand sight of the falling stars.
The Saints beheld it with hearts of rejoicing.
Being persecuted and cast out from their homes
for the sake of their religion, and knowing it
to be one of the signs of the last days spoken
of by the Prophets, it was calculated to cheer
and comfort their hearts and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel, notwithstanding they were
in deep affliction.  Although I was but a child
at the time, I looked upon the scene with de-
light.  The heavens seemed wrapped in splen-
did fireworks.  The appearance was beautiful
and grand beyond description.
	I think it was several weeks that we were
camped on the bank of the river.  The wea-
ther began to be quite cold—too cold to remain
in tents with any degree of comfort.  The
Saints found homes as best they could, search-
ing out and making habitable all the old shan-
ties and hovels that could be found, endeavor-
ing to keep as near together as possible.  Father
and Elder John Corrill procured an old log
cabin that had been used for a stable and
cleaned it up as best they could  and moved
their families in.  There was one large room,
and a leanto, but that was not of much use, as
the floor was nearly all torn up, and the rats
and rattlesnakes were too thick for comfort.
There was a large fireplace in the one habita-
ble room, and blankets were hung up a few
feet back from the fire and the two families,
fifteen or sixteen in number, were gathered in-
side of those blankets to keep from freezing,
for the weather was extremely cold, so cold
that the ink would freeze in the pen as father
sat writing close to the fire.  Elder Corrill’s
family took one side of the fireplace and we
took the other.  Our beds were in the back
part of the room, which was cold enough for
the polar regions.
	The next summer the Saints procured a
small cabin in a paupau grove for a school and
one of our Mormon girls was installed as teach-
er.  And notwithstanding our deplorable cir-
cumstances I spent many happy hours with the
school children in that beautiful grove at hours
of intermission, swinging on the long wild
grapevine that hung from the tall trees, or
tearing down some of the long and slender
ones to jump-the-rope with.  We built houses
of the branches of the paupau tree, the wood
being very brittle we had no difficulty in
breaking as many as we wanted.  The fruit of
the paupau is about as long as the banana, and
about four or five times as large around, with a
smooth skin.  The inside, when ripe, is a yel-
low, thick, creamy pulp, with- large flat seeds,
and to the taste is very sweet; but oh ! such a
sweet lone taste will generally suffice, nobody
wants to taste it twice.
     Some of the old citizens of Clay Co. sent
their children to our school and of course were
better dressed than the Mormon children,
which caused them to sometimes sneer and
make fun of our shabby clothes, but generally
we got along very well.  The Saints were very
poor, and I sometimes wonder how they pro-
vided for their families the necessaries of life.
My father being Bishop made the times much
harder for him, for he not only had his family
to provide for, but he had the poor to look
after, and provide for their comfort also.
	I sometimes think that Bishops in these
days know but little what the office of Bishop
was in the early days of the Church—in the
days of its poverty and inexperience.  Some-
times the poor would grumble and complain
because there was not more for them.	 To
raise money in those days was almost like
wringing water out of a dry sponge.

[column 3]
A GIRL AUTHOR!
	Ellen Gibson was born in Winchendon, May
8,1821. When five years of age her parents
removed to Ringe.  She possessed an active,
nervous temperament; learned readily and was
at the head of her class.  Her first published
articles appeared in the miscellaneous depart-
ment of the “Boston Cultivator,’' to which she
contributed for several years.  She began school
teaching at the age of fifteen and met with de-
cided success in that vocation.  In 1848 she
was compelled to relinquish teaching on ac-
count of ill health.
	When the War of the Rebellion broke out
she was in the west lecturing; and she became
enthusiastic with the patriotic spirit, and gave
her services in raising soldiers and societies
under the patronage of Gov. Salmon of Wis-
consin.
	During the first N. W. Sanitary Fair held
in Chicago she sold thirteen hundred copies of
a little book she wrote, entitled “The Soldiers'
Gift,”or“The Dangers and Temptationsof Army
Life; giving the proceeds to the fair.' In 1864
she was recommended as chaplain by Governor
Lewis and General Fairfield of Wisconsin, and
assigned to the First Wis. Vol. Artillery, Pres-
dent Lincoln gave her his testimonial: “This
lady would be appointed chaplain of the First
Wis. Heavy Artillery, only she is a woman.
The President has not legally any thing to do
with such a question, but has no objection to
her appointment.	      A. LINCOLN.” Dated Nov.
10,1865.
	She finally served without being mustered
in.  She was known during the war as Ellen
E. I. Hobart.  She now resides in Barre, Mass.
From the New England Historical Genea-
logical (Society) Register. Voi. XXXYII, p.
392,


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	England had only 1,311 hours of bright sun-
shine last year.
	A Berlin doctor has been fined for not keep-
ing himself posted on modern methods of prac-
tice.
	There are 347 women in England who live
by blacksmithing and actually swing heavy
hammers.
	A sociable man is one who, when he has ten
minutes to spare, goes and bothers somebody
that hasn't:
	The snowfall on the Italian Alps is the
heaviest within the memory of man. It is cal-
culated that 300 lives have been lost through
the storm.
	Unprejudiced. Mrs. Newgold (in picture
grllery—This, Aunt Eunice; is a real old mas-
ter. Aunt Eunice—Well, I shouldn’t care if
it was; it’s just as good as some of the new ones.
—Life.
	Does any man wound thee? Not only for-
give, but work into thy thought intelligence of
the kind of pain, that thou mayest never in-
flict it on another spirit.—Margaret Fuller.
	The Magazine of Art for February is superb
in illustration as in letter press.. The frontis-
piece is a fac-simile in colors of Downman's
portrait of Lady Maria Waldergrave, with her
piquant beauty; the views of Artists' Homes
shows a prosperous age in art; some fine por-
traits are given in Editor Henley's paper, "In
Character." The tinted page of poetry and
picture this month is called "In Arcady." "The
Marvelous Madonna," "A Round in France," a
portrait of the eminent artist Elihu Vedder,
with reproductions from his drawings, are
among the brilliant features of the magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE HEART DOOR.

There is a little grave, watered well with tears,
	Where I used to sit when winds were still,
Dreaming sad dreams of the might have been,
	Indulging in vain regrets until
The Savior entered, and shut the door,
And that old pain comes to my heart no more.

Did He not say, as He used to walk
	On the vine-clad hills of old Galilee,
The sweetest thing He said or taught
	Was, "Let the children come unto me."
So, when He entered in my heart's door,
Sorrow departed to come no more!

	MARY KNAPP. 
Selected.


TOO LATE.
BY NORA PERRY.
What silence we keep year after year
With those who are near to us and dear!
We live beside each other day by day
And speak of myriad things, but seldom say
The full, sweet word that lies just in our reach
Beneath the commonplace of  common speech.

Then out of sight and out of reach they go—
These close, familiar friends who loved us so;
And, sitting in the shadow they have left,
Alone with loneliness, and sore bereft,
We think, with vain regret, of some fond word
That once we might have said, and they have heard.

For weak and poor the love that we expressed
Now seems beside the vast, sweet unexpressed,
And slight the deeds we did to those undone,
And small the service spent to treasures won,
And undeserved the praise for word and deed
That should have overflowed the simple need.

This is the cruel cross of life, to be
Full visioned only when the ministry
Of death has been fulfilled, and in the place
Of some dear presence is but empty space.
What recollected services can then
Give consolation for the might have been?
INDEPENDENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	My husband wrote: “Wednesday, the 21st,
fine day—this morning, by request of Brother
Kimball, went down to the ferry, six miles
from here; found them just crossing the river.
Little John Smith and myself drove up the
loose cattle and arrived at the camp a little
after dusk.  The family all got here soon
after.”
	“Bishop Whitney,Bros. Woolley and Wright
arrived from St. Louis on the 26th.  The goods
—amounting to about sixty tons—had to be
brought up from St. Joseph by teams.  Brother
Woolley returned to take the charge.  Eight
teams were started the 2nd day of Nov.”
	On the 6th Horace speaks of Wm. Clayton
and George Grant “returning from the village
on the other side of the river, whither they
went on business for the Church.  Bro. Clay-
ton informs me that he never saw such a
swindling operation as that practised on the
Indians down there—they received their pay-
ments in money and were then followed by a gang
of sharpers, who watching their opportunity,get
them drunk and then gamble with them and
cheat them out of all their money.”
	Sunday, the 8th, he mentions the “Omahaws
going through our settlement, their horses
loaded down with tent poles, baggage, etc., on
their way north to the Grand Hunt."
     Saturday, the 7th,he speaks of being engaged
in roofing and sodding the house, into one
room of which we moved that evening. He
says: “We congratulate ourselves consider-
ably upon being able to live in a house again,
as we have got throughly tired of living in
tents.” We continued to use our wagon as a
bedroom till the 30th, when it was wanted to
bring produce from the country.  By this time
quite a number of houses had been put up.
This one contained a number of rooms, built
in a row, between my father’s and Bishop
Whitney’s main buildings.  One room was
used by father for storing provisions, etc.  My
sister-in-law, Sarah, with whom we had tented
so long, occupied a room adjoining ours, though
it was not yet ready for her to move into.  We
lived in ours one month before it was entirely
finished.
	On the 8th of Dec. Horace mentions being
engaged “mudding up his room,” his brother
Orson assisting him.  This, like the majority
of the houses, was covered with sod, and the
chimneys were built of the same.  Each room
had one door and a window with four panes
of glass, but no floor.  I was rather unfortun-
ate, first,in having a chimney that seldom drew
the smoke, particularly when the weather was
cold enough to need a roaring fire in front of
a good sized back-log, and then being prostrat-
ed on my bed from the 23rd of January till
along in March; it gave me the opportunity of
cultivating the qualities of patience and calm-
ness under new vicissitudes, from which there
was no alternative, only to endure them with
as good grace as possible, for many of the
Saints were still without a roof to cover them;
but I shed many unbidden tears during the
smoking period, lasting one month, when find-
ing that our fireplace built of sod was about to
tumble down,they had some brick brought from
the rubbish of the Old Fort of Council Bluffs,
and built a new one.  Thus ended our trouble
from that quarter.  We had been accustomed
to trials from smoke, heat, wind and dust, and
many other things of an unpleasant nature
during camp life, and we took considerable
pleasure in fixing up our little homes.  Our
floors we managed to cover with canvas or
pieces of carpeting, which had outlived the
storms and the wear and tear while journey-
ing from the States. We made curtains serve
as partitions to divide the bedrooms, reposi-
tories, etc., from the kitchen.  Most of our
furniture we had made to order—such as cup-
boards and bedsteads—they being attached to
the house, also tables, chairs and stools, and an
occasional rocking chair, relics of other days,
graced our ingleside.  I was fortunate in hav-
ing one of the latter, which I had brought
with me.  And here I received my “setting
out” in crockery ware, etc, which, though not
very extensive, was deemed quite immense for
those times.  Our marriage taking place just
as we were about starting from the states, the
presenting of these needful articles was post-
poned till a future time, expecting, as we then
did, to cross the Rocky Mountains before build-
ing houses to inhabit. Two or three pieces I
have still, which I keep in memory of the vari-
ous and peculiar scenes through which we have
passed together; as well as the loved ones who
have passed away.
	The larger houses were generally shingled
and had brick chimneys and puncheon floors,
with a six lighted window to each room.
Father’s largest house contained four good
sized rooms on the ground, and two up stairs.
My bro. William and family lived in one room,
my mother, her four little boys, three or four
young men and two young women who had
been adopted, and two of father’s wives occu-
pied the rest; the women assisting in sewing
and housekeeping.  My mother bad been for
some time in very feeble health, and her
youngest child, who was so sick with whooping
cough, when starting from Nauvoo, was taken
care of by Mary Ann Sheflin, one of father’s
wives who lived in the row.  She, having
charge of him most of the way on the journey,
she loved him as though he had been her own
child.
	Horace wrote on the 12t'n, “Bro. Kimball,
Bishop Miller and myself went to Brigham’s
house, which is just finished, in honor of which
we spent the evening in dancing.  Bro. John
Kay sung a few songs and the company dis-
persed, having had a real  good “house warm-
ing.” Bishop Miller, Peter Haw.es and L
Woodworth slept at my house to-night on the
floor.  The latter is quite sick with the fever.
*	*	*	*	The brethren, for
the last two or three days, have been in council
with Bishop Miller, trying to take action on
His case before he goes back to the Punkaw na-
tion.”
	The Bishop had just returned from the coun-
try, where he had been, with others of his
company, for produce.  He left for home with
part of his company on the 15th.  Many of the
brethren had gone down into Missouri to work
or to trade for provisions, which consisted,
mostly, of corn and bacon; the latter, with
corn meal cakes,was our main subsistence dur-
ing the winter.  Vegetables, and many of the
necessaries of life were not obtainable.  Indian
meal cake and puddings we considered very
nice when used as rarities, as we were accus-
tomed to doing in the east, but when we had
little or no change, they became somewhat
nauseous, particularly to the sick and delicate.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In honor of Prest. E. G. MacDonald on her
54th birthday, her numerous friends inaugura-
ted a party, which proved a perfect success in
every respect, the lady not having the least
idea of the surprise awaiting her. When she
saw her domicile invaded by such a number,
loaded down with good things,she accepted the
situation and welcomed them with a hearty
good will, which made everybody feel at home.
After some pleasant conversation and a birth-
day address by one of the ladies of the party,
supper was served, and the tables fairly groaned
beneath the good things that were loaded upon
them; 47 persons partook of supper, and, as it
was remarked, it seemed like the "widow's
cruse" of oil, there was still plenty when all
was served.
	The evening passed pleasantly away; Bro.
Chas. Robison made a brief speech, expressing
a wish that the dark clouds that were now hov-
ering over her and us might soon vanish away
before the effulgent rays of the coming day,
and wished her "many happy returns of the
day," each one happier than the last. Sister
E. G. MacDonald expressed her gratitude to
the brethren and sisters for the kindly feelings
that had prompted their friendly greeting.
	There was but one thing to mar the pleasure,
of the evening, and that was the absence of
her husband, who was absent on a trip through 
Southern Arizona, laboring for the interest of
the mission, for which he is laboring incessant-
ly.
	Our Relief Society is in good working or-
der, as are also the different associations. Our
Society Hall is so far completed that social
parties and entertainments are being held in it.
Although dark clouds seem to be gathering,
and the prospects are that we shall have our
share of persecution; still, there is a deep abid-
ing faith with the people that the Lord lives
and rules and will overrule every thing for the
best if we obey His laws in every respect.
	God bless you and all connected with the
Exponent, which is carrying gratification and
pleasure into so many households, is the con-
stant prayer of your friend and sister in the
Gospel,	S. A. P.
	Mesa City, Arizona.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, S2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs. Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m.to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

RELIGIO-P0LITICAL CRUSADE.

	The crusade against the people of Utah, the
original settlers, the actual pioneers of this new
country, this sometime barren desert, has bagun
in dead earnest, judging from the events trans-
piring at the present time, and the bitterness
and utter lack of honor that is apparent on the
part of those unscrupulous men, who have un-
dertaken with zeal, worthy a better cause, to
manipulate the present religious political cam-
paign.
	These officers of the law and their emissaries
would fain make people believe they are anxious
to promote a better condition of society, and
make the country more popular; in fact would
elevate all who would be guided by them.
Would they not then take away the agency of
the individual? If you want to believe in Mor-
monism it is heresy in the eyes of these official
authorities; you have no right to believe in cer-
tain things, society condemns them,and we, the
people of the United States, will not submit to
it. Then men and women are not to have the
right of conscience? This is a free country in-
deed! The people of the United States are out-
raged by certain forms of marriage! Are not
the people of Utah the people of the United
States, a part of the body politic? One would
think not to hear these officials talk! Is not
every citizen of the United States entitled to
privileges of freedom and religious liberty, and
is any man or woman to be condemned, without
due process of law, to any punishment whatso-
ever?
	The laws of the United States so read, and we
have ever been so taught and we so understand
it, but the laws are changed when Mormons are
accused; anything is fair on the side of men who
administer the law, any testimony may be
taken as evidence, or no testimony at all accord-
ing to the circumstances, and it requires no
proof whatever to deprive a man or woman of
the right of franchise. Men and women are
punished without any evidence being brought of
the alleged crime, test oaths are applied to the
people in regard to their religion, actual religi-
ous rites and ceremonies, and if they will not
subscribe to them they are powerless as to any
claim upon their country. They are outcasts in
its broadest sense. They have no rights or
claims that the country will acknowledge, and
men and women, who are by every human right,
sacred or divine, entitled to the blessings be-
queathed, by that glorious instrument of free-
dom, the Constitution, are being deprived, little
by little, of every vestige of liberty, religious or
political.
	Every American citizen, whether native born
or naturalized, points with pride and confidence
to the Constitution, knowing its grand and sub-
lime principles and the religious liberty it guaran-
tees as a safeguard and protection. But it is

[Column 2]

being torn to shreds, figuratively speaking, by
members of Congress who pass unconstitutional
laws, and the executive and judiciary officials
who administer them,while they boast so vigor-
ously at the same time about having the laws
obeyed, and are such sticklers for morality that
their pure minds are exercised because more
wives than one live in the marriage relation
with one husband, and are protected, cared for
and supported, their children acknowledged, and
withal have marital rights and privileges. Is
the way of the world so much higher morally
that they can very well afford to boast of their
refined civilization.
	To be sure it is so widely different from the
order of plural marriage that comparisons are
odious, and should never at any time be allowed;
but in view of these very punctilious people
feeling outraged by the practice of plural mar-
riage away off in the heart of the American
derert, let us pause and consider the misery and
degradation in the City of Washington alone,
where these one-sided laws are enacted. We
give the testimony of a lady who is a resident of
that City, and has been for many years, who
moves in the best society, who was an intimate
friend of President Garfield, and in fact knows
Washington by heart, so to speak. Hear what
she says:
	"What is the danger that threatens our fire-
sides to-day? An invasion from Spain, or France
or England? An insult to our flag upon the
high seas? Who that has a son or a daughter
does not know that the moral pestilence that
walks abroad at noonday and poisons the air of
night is a more dangerous foe to his household
than hosts of armed men?
	"Gentlemen of the House of Congress have
asked me if I did not know that gathering in
these girls from the streets, even though we se-
cure their reformation, would only make room
for more; that this evil is a natural and inevit-
able necessity. May I ask in whose interest
this argument is used? Is it for our own sons
that this fearful supply must and will be de-
manded? Or is it for the sons of our neighbors?
Surely it is no the intention of the lawmakers,
by tacit consent, to deliberately provide for the
ruin and degradation of their own families. It
is folly to suppose that young and ignorant girls
and children can be bought and sold upon our
streets for the worst purposes, and your own
households only can be safe and high and pure.
*	*	*	It is not purely a local evil
for which the citizens only are responsible. In
the summer and autumn,when permanent resi-
dents only are here, this class of girls find
themselves on the verge of starvation, and large
numbers leave the city. But when Congress
assembles, the immense foreign and floating
population, that ever gathers around the capital
of a great nation, creates a demand for them,
and the keepers of the houses send out their
emissaries for new girls. The vagrant girls of
Washington are peculiarly national and not lo-
cal vagrants. Many of them are brought here
young and ignorant, from distant homes by em-
ployees of the Government. Large numbers
come in search of employment, and find, as the
twenty thousand war widows in New York
found, that there is but one employment for
women that men are willing to pay for."
	This is but a sentence or two from the strong
and able argument of this eminent lady in be-
half of a "Girl's Refore School." To read the
argument in full is enough to make one's blood
run cold, and she gives facts,for as she very apt-
ly says, "One fact is worth volumes of argu-
ment."
	But these people do not see the beam that is
in their own eye, but observe with alarm the
little mote they fancy they can see afar off in
Utah. And is it not true that in this very city,

[Column 3]

where men are employed to pry into domestic
affairs, to obtrude themselves into the sacred
home circle, that they are men of vile habits,
steeped in tobacco and whisky, men whom every
virtuous woman despises, and whom she would
shun as she would a deadly serpent? Yet these
men, under pretence of finding whether the
Edmunds law is being broken, obtrude them-
selves into the sacred precincts of homes where
the commandments of God are kept, where
prayers are offered, and where peace and happi-
ness abide; what do they care for morality, or
purity, or chastity; they are after money; they
are the tools employed to condemn innocent
men and women, and if possible throw them
into prison, break up happy homes and make
them desolate, ruin the lives and break the
hearts of women who are as far above these exe-
cutors of the Edmunds law as the heavens are
above the earth.
	A pertinent question to ask at the present
time would be, who supports the palaces of sin
in our midst? Who patronizes the saloons? If
these questions were answered truthfully it
would be, the men who have come here to civil-
ize and regenerate the "Mormons," but who are
many of them "like ravenous wolves seeking
whom they may devour." The real object is
money and political influence, and any means
will be resorted to that can be made available to
make capital out of the "Mormon" question.
	The persecution raging now against this peo-
ple can be styled nothing less than a crusade
against religion for political purposes. What will
be gained by it to further the ends of office seek-
ers towards place, power, or aggrandizement can
better be told in the future, but it will most like-
ly prove more disastrous to them in the end
than to the people whom they now oppress; it
was so in Mo., it was so in Nauvoo, and in our
opinion it will prove the same in this instance.
"Mormonism" will flourish, the people will
prosper, and those who fight against it will fall
into the pit they have dug for this people, and
be caught in the snares they have taken so much
pains to set for those who are trying to keep the
commandments of God.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The pen sketch of Patty Session will be
continued in our next issue.
	MINUTES of Ladies' Semi-monthly, meeting,
held in this city, Feb. 7th, left over for lack of
space, will also appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of the several organizations in
this Stake of Zion will please remember that re-
ports must be handed in early in order that the
Stake secretaries of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. may have ample time to prepare them for
the Stake Conference of this Stake of Zion,
which will be held previous to the sister's Con-
ference. The 5th of March is the latest date
given for them.
	The comic opera of Patience will be presented
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday evening,
Feb. 23rd. The performers are all selected
from home talent, and, there is every prospect
that the performance will be excellent of its
kind. Prof. Krouse, a thoroughly educated
musician, who is getting up the affair, is spar-
ing no pains to make the event a perfect success.
The names of those who are to take part in the
opera are a pretty good guarantee of an enjoyable
musical treat and entertainment.
“Cherry Lips" is the title of a piece of music,
a grand valse, composed by Prof. A. Andle and
published by D[-]ynes & Coalter of this city, who
are really "very enterprising young men in a
musical direction. It Is one of a series of musi-
cal sketches, which will be suitable for the
guitar, banjo, piano, organ, violin, mandolin


z[-]ther and harp.		Prof. Andre has a happy facul-
ty of adaptation, as well as good taste in the com-
position of his pieces for his scholars, and as
they are not diffi ult thay will no doubt have a
wide circulation in the home market.
	THE Stake Secretaries in the various Stakes of
Zion will please govern themselves according to
the instructions previously given, that all re.
ports for the Central Board may be in before the
5th of March. The Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' Associations and the Primary are all
requested to send their reports to the secretary
of Central Board. Relief Society, Sarah M.
Kimball; Box 629, S. L. City. Y. L. M I. A ,
Louie M. Wells, Box 555. S. L. City. Primary
Associations, Alice A. Jenkins, S	   L. City.
Please be prompt in sending, that a complete
and correct report may be made for the April
Conference.
	The conflicting reports and rumors in regard
to the condition, of the English troops in Egypt
render it impossible to decide whether or not
Gen. Gordon has been killed, or indeed make It
somewhat doubtful whether Khartoum has real-
ly fallen. However, it is true that the brave
and gallant Earle, and also Leiut. Col. Eyre and
Col. Coventry have been killed. The telegrams
of Feb,12th, stale that the English success was
complete. More troops are to be sent to Egypt
and the struggle will continue. A council of
war was held at the War Office at noon on
Thursday, Feb. 12th. The Duke of Cambridge
will review the troops before they leave for
Egypt. The outlook is not cheery for the
English when their best officers and many of
their soldiers must be sacrificed; but the gov-
ernment seems quite willing to risk them, and
such are the fortunes of war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

O, JUSTICE! WHITHER HAST THOU
FLED?

	Let our eye look upon Zion. Let her be defiled.
	But they knew not the thoughts of the Lord.—Micah
IV, 11,12.
	Let us enter the private sanctuary of domes-
tic life, where, to the honor of this great re-
public, the divinity of the marriage tie is ac-
knowledged and held sacred; and where purity,
the crowning glory of the social circle, is bravely
and successfully protected.
	Let us there, with wanton cruelty, defy the
Constitution of our country, and by trampling
on the rights of conscience, sever the holy ties
of wedlock—separate husband and wife—pa-
rents and children, and ignore the finest affec-
tions of the human heart.
	Yes; let us cause thousands of honorable, lov-
ing wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and
their offspring, as bastards.
	Let us cause multitudes of innocent children,
that are now being tenderly cherished and care-
fully educated, to be branded with infamy, and
deprived of heirship.
	Let us desecrate their homes, and exterminate
the only people of whom this nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence; lest
their virtuous and honorable example shall, in
the present reign of corruption, rise up before us
as a burning reproof.
	Let us immure in loathsome prisons those
brave men, who, for the sake of worshiping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, left their homes and the graves of their
noble ancestors, and sought refuge in the sterile
American Desert; where, nerved by the power
of faith in the arm of the Great Jehovah, for a
while they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
came the barrenness of the soil, and made the
"Deseret blossom as the rose."
	Those are the men, whe, with their stalwart

[Column 2]

sons, the noble offspring of plural, celestial
marriage, with stern, unyielding persevarance,
establishe a connecting link between the com-
mercial cities of the East, and the rich mining
districts of the West, and made practicable for
the nation, the continental transit of the "iron
horse."
	Let us erace from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosi-
ty bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our emigrants,when their supplies were
exhausted, as they were wending their way
through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a
thriving, peaceful, honest, industrious commun-
ity—a Territory brought into existence and
made to flourish, without aid, protection, or en-
couragement from the government under which
it exists.
	Yes. let us abregate the rights of its founders,
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators—those who have
no interest in common with the people.
	Instead of the Territory of Utah as it had be-
come—a theme of boast, as a nucleus of peace,
good order and happiness; let us, through our
crushing policy, exhibit it to the nations abroad
as a spectacle of confusion, desolation and 
woe.
	Let us tear away that mighty shield of the
rights of concience, and protector of the rights
of citizenship, our glorious Constitution—let us
place our veto on the commands of the Al-
mighty, and presume to me sure arms with the
Great Ruler of the Universe.
	Thus saith the President, and thus saith the
Congress of the United States of America, by
passing unconstitutional bills, and in appointing
and forcing upon Utah a Commission composed
of men with undeveloped consciences, who as-
sume preogatives, powers,and authority beyond
their investment: who having inagurated an
obnoxious compulsory test oath to screen the
lecherous and punish the pure, complacently
smile when the inalienable rights of local citi-
zens are trampled upon, and the judicial sanc-
tum, which should be an emporium of justice
and equity, is transformed into a nest of conspira-
tors—an equisitorial caldron.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 7, 1885.


[Column 1]
﻿		A VIEW- FEBRUARY 18S5.
	It is interesting to note the different phases
presented at different periods of the world’s
history by those powers which have ever been
opposed to the truth. Alike in those dispensa-
tions in which Moses and Jesus were to figure
prominently, the Evil Powers seem to take into
consideration beforehand the necessity of doing
something to prevent the rise of such mighty
one, in the interest of that cause against which
they fought.
	They therefore “put it into the hearts of
wicked men" to have the lives of infants taken
which should be born in the times and places in
which they supposed those mighty ones were to
come forth. But notwithstanding all the great
crimes committed in the shedding of innocent
blood at those times the plans of the Almighty
were not frustrated. The very children whose
lives were sought being safely guarded and kept
alive. The Evil Powers were foiled and the
powers of light were triumphant.
	In this, “The dispensation of the Fulness of
Times,” the evil powers seem to take a some-
what different stand, though evidently working
with the same object in view as in former times.
It appears now that their business is to ‘put it
into the hearts of wicked men” to frame and
seek to enforce laws to the effect that children

[Column 2]
shall not be born. The world does not want
them, and the few people who do want them
must not have them if their enemies can pre-
vent it.
	This latter scheme of the Evil Powers is with-
out doubt concocted in consequence of a knowl-
edge which they must have obtained of the fact
that within a limited space of time, all the re-
maining spirits which belong to this earth, and
are to receive earthly tabernacles, wi1 be born
of the flesh. That among them are many mas-
ter spirits, which have been reserved for the
great work of the latterdays. And that as soon
as these spirits have received their fleshly taber-
nacles, and are brought forth, “The end of the
world, which is the destruction of the wicked,"
will c[-]me.
	Is it any wonder that the Evil Powers are
striving so madly and so vigorously at this time
to do something to prevent the birth of pure
spirits in pure bodie? What else should they
be striving for, knowing, as they do, that “their
time is short?” Only to be faithful and diligent
remains for those who are looking forward to the
time when the evil powers will be bound, and

		JESUS SHALL REIGN.
Oh! the vain glory and wild speculation
	Which we now witness on every hand!
Oh! the dread doom of this proud generation!
	Why will they perish! Why not understand?
		Keep in the narrow path,
		And thus escape the wrath
Which is now sweeping the nations amain;
		Stand with the meek and pure,
		 They only can endure,		"
		And righteous crowns secure;
			Jesus shall reign!

Th’ trumpets are sounding, th’ seal a being broken;
	The plagues are abroad of destruction and dearth;
The wicked repent not; they heed not the token,
	And soon they’ll be swept from the face of the earth.
		Cease not, ye saints, to call,
		Save, or we perish all!
Help us, our Father, Thy laws to maintain;
		Oh! God of truth and light,
		Strengthen us by Thy might,
		Thine is the power, the right;
			Jesus shall reign!

Soon will the morn of the first resurrection
	Gladden the valleys and brighten the waves;
Parents and children, the friends and connections,
	Sweetly embrace as they rise from their graves.
		Father, our hearts prepare,
		In the great bliss to share,
More than requiting all sorrow and pain;
		Joyous the anthem then,
		Angels and saints again
		Echo the glad amen,
			Jesus shall reign!			LULA.
	S. L. City.


A DELIGHTFUL PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Thursday last Sister Julia Howe gave a
most enjoyable entertainment to the widows of
the 17th Ward.  Her parlors were thrown open
for their reception, and two long tables were set
in the dining-room, on which were placed the
substantials of the season, with many delicacies
abundantly garnishing the feast. Dinner was
served at four o'clock and the Sisters Reese,
Alder, Keetie Kimball and Miss Zina Hyde,
were the ministering spirits attendant upon the
tables. They greatly assisted, too, in the order
and satisfaction that every one preserved and
felt.
	Sister Hyde presided by appointment over the
assembly, and by her ever kind, affectionate, and
unassuming manners made all feel at home.
	After dinner, all adjourned to the large and
beautiful drawing room, where, after a time, the
guests were called upon to express their senti-
ments upon such subjects as they chose to


speak upon. Many arose and spoke in an inter-
esting and edifying manner of their experience
in life, of their happy associations and enjoy-
ments in social gatherings, of journeying across
the plains, etc. Songs and recitations were also
engaged in.
	All expressed their appreciation of Sister
Howe's kindness and benevolence in providing
search an entertainment for them, and called
down blessings upon her.
	At ten o'clock all returned to their homes re-
freshed and strengthened by "the communion
of Saints"
	Our Sister, in speaking, said President Taylor
o served at the last Conference that from that
time the widows should be blessed, and she be-
lieved that in this meeting that prophecy was
being realized.
				ONE OF THE WIDOWS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT TIME.
	On Monday, January 26th ult., a very enjoy-
able time was spent at the residence of Sister
Ware’s. Many sisters of the 19th and other
wards met together to celebrate her 79th birth-
day, it having been the custom to do so on that
occasion for the past ten years. The time spent
there together was profitable and instructive.
	The afternoon was spent in singing, prayer
and speaking of the goodness of God to His peo-
ple in days that are past and up to the present
time, when all bore a faithful testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. It was a time long to be
remembered.
	After the meeting was over all sat down to a
bountiful repast. The picnic was brought by
the sisters.
	I will just say I wrote a poem, the words of
which past through my mind the previous
evening, and I penned them down as they came
to me, and read them at the party.
						MARY CLARK.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The Ladies Semi-monthly meeting was held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms,
Satuaday, January 27, Mrs. M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, "Lord, Thou wilt hear me when
I pray." Prayer by Counselor Phebe Woodruff.
Singing, "Glory to Thee, my God." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Minutes
of Y. L. Associations from 20th 6th and 17th
wards, also minutes of P. A. from the 5th, 4th,
15th, 11th, 17th and 10th wards were read by
the reep[-]ctive secretaries.
	Prest. Horne then addressed the sisters.
Spoke of tha cultivation of our young people,
and thought we should all seek to learn those
things that would be for our best good and ad-
vancement. Said, we are living in a time that
requires us to be wise and humble, and when
we must live near to God and do His holy will,
if we would expect His blessings. The time
has come that our Prophet Joseph Smith spoke
of, when all the world is turned against us. Let
us try to be faithful and merit the Lord's pro-
tecting care, for we know not what may come
to us or ours. Let us also remember our breth-
ren who are being so tried, and offer up our
prayers in their behalf.
	Coun. Woodruff exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in the performance of every duty rest-
ing upon them. Wished those present to im-
prove the time in bearing testimony.
	Several of the sisters bore excellent testi-
monies.
	Sister Mc. Master spoke in the gift of tongues,
and Sister Lawson gave the interpretation.
Prest. Horne made a few closing remarks, in
which she gave a brief account of the trials the


Saints had to pass through in Missouri, and said
the Lord protected us then, and if we are faith-
ful He will protect us now.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Sister E. S. Tay-
lor.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Washington, 25.—Rev. Dr. Patten, Presi-
dent of Howard University, preached a sermon
in the Congregational Church of this city to-
day, on woman and skepticism, in the course
of which he spoke of the woman’s suffrage
convention held here recently, and expressed
the opinion that when women are given too
much liberty, they branch off into skepticism
and immorality. He said, among other things,
that the lives of such women as George Elliot,
Madame Roland and Harriet Martineau exem-
plified the truth of this assertion, and he re-
ferred to Victoria Woodhull as a representative
of the woman suffrage movement. Among his
audience were Miss Susan B. Anthony and
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and at the con-
clusion of the services they walked to the plat-
form and upbraided Dr. Patten for his utter-
ances. Miss Anthony said to him that if his
mother were living she would take him across
her knee and spank him, but Mrs Stanton in- 
terrupted her and said: "On the contrary, let
me congratulate Dr. patten. I've been trying
for years to make women understand the worst
enemies they have are in the pulpit. Now he
has illustrated it beyond question." Without
giving Dr. Patten time to reply the women has
tily left the church.
	To-night the Rev. Olpmpia Brown replied 
to Dr. Patten from the pulpit of the Univer-
salist Church.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The evening session  of Tuesday brought out
a larger attendance and there were several
members of Congress present. Matilda J.
Gage delivered an address on the political par-
ties of the country, showing they had been suc-
cessful or had failed according to their strict
adherence to or desertion of principle.
	Mrs. Stanton followed,speaking on "The
Disabilities and Limitations of the sex." She
glorified motherhood as the divinest function;
referred to Horace Greeley's limitation of
woman's usefulness, in which he said she could
neither navigate a ship across the sea, nor sing
bass in a choir, by stating that woman had
done both. She laid at the doctrine of celi-
bacy endless evils and ills, and asserted that
the religious devotees of the moral ages were
responsible for the darkness of that age. She
criticised St. Paul's strictures on marriage,and
condemned the practice and principle of celi-
bacy in pungent and unmeasured terms.
	Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon was the last
speaker. She gave a history of the work in
California together with an interesting account
of the contest over the admission of women to
practice at the bar. Women are now admitted
to all callings and professions in California, sex
being declared no disqualification by the Con-
stitution, by a clause which Mrs. Gordon had
herself drafted.
		SECOND DAY.
	The meeting was called to order by Miss An-
thony. She told her hearers not to be discour-
aged. There were but four bills in the Senate
ahead of the suffrage bill and that already the
friends of the measure were preparing their
speeches on it. She said if women were half
as sagacious as men they would note down
points in behalf of the bill and send them to
one of the senators favoring the measure, that
he might incorporate them in his speech.
	Dispatches were read from Helen M. Gou
gar and Mrs. Lockwood, and letters from Clara
Barton, Robert Purvis and Rachel Foster.
	Mrs. Perkins of Ohio then read a most able
and forcible address, quaint, touching and tell-
ing, showing full womanly and matronly in-
stincts, an unfaltering trust in the Creator, an
abhorence of intemperance and a resolute and
immovable conviction that the cause of woman
was just and should be secured.  “There had
been too many Jane Carlyles in the past,sitting
up all night to make bread  for a grumbling
husband. Victor Hugo had said the 19th cen-
tury belonged to women, and he, rather
than the bearish English philospher, should
be taken as the true representative of his
age."
	Caroline Gilkey Rogers then read a well-
prepared and interesting paper on the “Aris-
tocracy of Sex." In the course of her address
she gave a description of a speech made by
Old Sojourner Truth in a suffrage convention
years ago, by which the entire current of
thought and feeling was changed. "If de fust
woman that God eber made was strong ’nuff to
turn the worl" upside down," said the tall and
powerful ex-slave, "den dese heah women on
de platform oughter be able to set her right
agin."
	Miss Burr read an allegorical essay showing
the condition of a world where the distinction
of sex in the walks of life had been oblitera-
ted and that this world was surpassingly and 
painfully inferior.
		RESOLUTIONS.
	"Whereas a bill for an amendment to the fed-
eral constitution prohibiting the states from
disfranchising citizens on account of sex is now,
with reports for and against its passage, before
the Congress of the United States; therefore,
	Resolved, That we request our representa-
tives in congress to pass this bill, and submit it
to the legislatures of the several states.
	Whereas it is conceded to be the duty of
overnments to protect the persons and proper-
ty of their citizens against all aggressions by
land and sea; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is clearly the duty of the
United States, on this principle, to protect the
women of the several states, when robbed by
tyrannical custom or unjustlegislation of their
fundamental rights by extending to them the
rights of suffrage.
	Resolved,  That in the death of the Hon.
Henry Fawcett, Wendall Phillips, Senator An-
thony, Madam Mathilde Annekk, Frances D.
Gage, Sarah Pugh, Elizabeth T. Schenck,
Katherine Newell Doggett, Laura Giddings
Julian, Judge Folger, Bishop Simpson, and
William Heney Channing, the year 1884 has
been one of irreparable losses to our move-
ment, and as an association we would express
to their families and friends in England and
America our deep sympathy in their affliction
and our gratitude for their life long services for
the elevation of women.
	Resolved, That we note with great satisfac-
tion the growth of sentiment favorable to
woman suffrage in the W. C. T. U., and that
we thank them heartily for their recent memo-
rial to congress in behalf of the sixteenth
amendment.
	Whereas the dogmas incorporated in relig-
ious creeds derived from Judaism, teaching
that woman was an afterthought in creation,
her sex a misfortune, marriage a condition of
subordination, and maternity a curse, are con-


[Column 1]

trary to the law of God as revealed in nature
and the precepts of Christ; and
	Whereas these dogmas are an insidious poi-
son sapping the vitality of our civilization,
blighting woman, and laying their palsying
hand upon humanity; therefore,
	Resolved, That we denounce these dogmas
wherever they are enunciated, and we will
withdraw our personal support from any or-
ganization or person so holding and teaching,
and
	Resolved, That we call upon the Christian
ministry, as leaders of thought, to teach and
enforce the fundamental idea of creation, that
man was made in the image of God, male and
female, and, given equal dominion over the
earth, but none over each other. And fur-
ther, we invite their co-operation securing
the recognition of the cardinal point of our
creed that in true religion there is neither
male nor female, neither bond nor free, but all
are one."
	These resolutions, introduced the first day,
were read and adopted, save the last one, which
created an unusual sensation. Men and women
joined in the debate and the discussion took a
partly religious turn and threatened to result
disastrously. It was discussed pro and con
vigorously and was beginning to call forth
criminating attack upon special religious or-
ders, when Mrs. Stanton arose and spoke ear-
nestly, and conclusively in its behalf, and then
said further consideration would be postponed
till the morning following when a special ses-
sion would be held to consider it. The after-
noon meeting then adjourned.
	The evening session was devoted to ad-
dresses. Miss Hardman of Philadephia spoke
on the subject, "As the Rulers, so the People,"
stating that the only way to overcome mob
rule was to substitute virtue for vice, to give
the more moral half of the community—the
women—representation, and the result would
be attained. Women for the same work shoud
receive the same compensation, and yet the
only place where men did not cheat the women
was where women had the right to vote.
	Rev. Olympia Brown,for 20 years a preacher
in the Universalist Church, spoke to the text,
"All are created free and equal." The aris-
tocracy in power, she said, was that of the
moustache, whose insignia was the spittoon,
whose home was the smoking car, and whose
outward sign was the curling tobacco smoke,
and which was dependent upon an accident of
the body. 
	The concluding speaker of the evening was
Lillie-Devereux Blake. Her subject was the
"True Republic." She said the term "repub-
lic." was not fulfilled in this country. A young
woman here who desired to earn her living had
offered to her the alternative of starvation or
degradation. She hoped the Bartholdi statue
would never be erected until women had the
right to vote. 
	It was decided not to hold a morning session
to discuss the resolutions which created such a
tumult during the afternoon.

THIRD DAY.
	A fair sized audience assembled on the after-
noon of the third day. Miss Anthony again
called the meeting to order, calling attention
to the necessity of liberal contributions to ena-
ble the work successfully to be carried on, and
she was followed by a male member named E.
M. Davis, who made himself conspicuous all
through the convention for very bad taste. He
made a very painful attempt to coax and argue
those present into helping "us" in "our" work.
	Dr. Harriet B. Chapin, in a wavering voice,
reported the condition of the suffrage work at
Albany, New York.
	Mrs. Shattuck of Boston, a very womanly 
appearing and acting lady, reported the condi-
tion of the woman's movement in Massachu-

[Column 2]

setts. She read some very well compiled and
suggestive statistics, showing the virtue of
women in her state and the portion her sex
plays in the industrial and professional pursuits
of that State. Mrs. Shattuck is a very pleas-
ing, broad and reflective speaker, and must
prove a power in the cause because of her ap-
parent earnestness and conservativeness.
	Anna L. Diggs read a well-written, telling
and humorous account of the suffrage work in
Kansas. She was very attentively listened to.
	One of the most eloquent and powerful ap-
peals and addresses made was that of Mrs.
Clara B. Colby, Editor of the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Nebraska. She appealed to men to
make the cause of woman's emancipation their
own, as they had the cause of free government
in the early history of the nation, as they had
for the abolition of slavery. She told the early
Hebraic legend of creation: "Lillith was the
goddess and Adam the God; that they reigned
over all equally till Adam wished all control,
and Lillith, rather than npt enjoy peace, left
the garden. Then an Eve, subordinate and a
helpmeet only was created," and it was a fact
worthy of note that until this inferior and sub-
ordinate woman was made, no evil came into
the world. She wished Lillith to return, to
reign equal, and thus bring back the era when
sin should be unknown.
	Mrs. D. Stockman of Chicago made a report
for Illinois, while Rev. Olympia Brown report-
ed the movement in Wisconsin so active that
they had held two annual meetings within the
year in that State.
	The afternoon session closed by Mrs. Stan-
ton stating that it had been decided to lay the
last resolution over for one year, as the discus-
sion seemed to have given rise to some feeling;
but she wished women to read the Scriptu es
and take notes, so as to determine intelligently
whether there was not a grave discrepancy be-
tween the position assigned them by the minis-
ters and creeds of orthodox churches, and that
contemplated in the first two chapters of Gene-
sis and in the Gospel of Christ.
	In the evenng Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress, hitting hard those who were opposing
the work in Congress, while Mrs. Stanton
stated that in the forthcoming volume of the
"History of Woman Suffrage" she would paint
these men so black that their own sons and
daughters would be ashamed of them. Miss
Anthony gave some interesting points in her
early efforts in behalf of the cause. She would
not tell just now how many years ago that was
—but if she lived to be as old as Methusalem,
"whose oldest daughter I am said to be, I will
still advocate woman suffrage."
	Mrs. Laura deForce Gordon then delivered
an address on "Is our Civilization Civilized?"
Ar uing like a lawyer, as she is, decidedly in
the negative. The loss of courtesy by men
would be more than compensated by the fact
that she, would then be the equal of man. She
said she would rather suffer any amount of in-
dignity than that little jackanapes should be
able to insult her with the remark, "you can't
vote."
	Mrs. Stanton read a short closing address. It
was very important that the government should
be kept secular, and equally so that woman
should know the danger of ecclesiastical con-
trol, as they were so soon going to vote. She
wanted women to remember that under the
old Roman law women had far more liberty
than since the Canon law put its withering
hands upon their civil rights. Law and eccle-
siastical students read the degrading statements
and then preached or practiced on the inspir-
ation of the directions given to the Corinthians
or Phillipians. She demanded an exporgated
edition of Blackstone and the Canon laws, as
well as of the Bible. All the revisions of men
had been failures, and she wanted the next to 
be made by women.

[Column 3]

	The convention was then declared ad-
journed.

NOTES.
	During the debate on Wednesday on the
anti-church doctrine resolution, Mrs. Stanton
in her remarks tending to show that organized
religion had ever tried to keep woman in abase-
ment, asked what it was that bound the Hin-
doo woman on the funereal pyre of her dead
husband? "Religion! Religion it is that keeps
the harems of Turkey full; and what but re-
ligion could ever induce the Mormon women
to endure that abominable and destroying prac-
tice of polygamy?"
	The character of ladies who participated and
who were present was intellectual, at least in
appearance, if not in fact. There were many
young women present. There were not a
great number of men, but the number of males
increased each day. Mrs. John T. Caine and
Mrs. F. S. Richards of Utah were interested
spectators and listeners to a large part of the
proceedings.
	Several of the ladies who are attending the
convention have never attended the Washing-
ton convention before. Mrs. Gordon of Cali-
fornia makes her appearance here now for the
first time. Br. Chapin of Albany, Mrs. Fray
of Ohio, Miss Burr of Hartford, Mrs. Colby of
Nebraska and Mrs. Ellis of New York are also
here for the first time. Mrs. Halleck and Mrs.
Hull are Quakers, and there were several
other ladies from Maryland belonging to the
Society of Friends present to-day. Miss An-
thony is of Quaker ancestry; Mrs. Colby of
Nebraska is editor of a paper; Miss. Laura
White of Kentucky is sister of Representative
White of that state. She is a student of arch-
itecture, and proposes to make architecture her
profession. Mrs. Post of Wyoming is the wife
of Delegate Post. She has been the foreman
of a jury and served on a jury when she was
the only woman present.

EXECUTIVE SESSION.
	The first executive session of officers and
members was held in the red parlors of the
Riggs house on Tuesday morning, Miss An-
thony presiding. The unfinished business of
last year was considered and committees ap-
pointed for the work of the convention. Thir-
teen states were represented, one territory, and
the District of Columbia. The following are
the committees appointed:

COMMITTEES.
	Finance—Jane H. Spofford, Eliza T. Ward,
and Ruth C. Denison, District of Columbia;
Ellen S. Fray, Ohio; Mrs. Halleck, New York.
	Membership—Clara B. Colby, Nebraska;
Miss Laura White, Kentucky; Dr. Harriet B.
Chapin and Caroline G. Rogers, New York;
Caroline A. Sherman and Mrs. S. J. Messer,
District of Columbia; Mrs. A. M. Best, Mary-
land.
	Credentials—Mrs. L. D. Blake and Sarah
W. Ellis, New York; Harriet B. Shatluck,
Massachusetts; Frances Ellen Burr, Connecti-
cut; Mary E. McPherson, Iowa.
	Resolutions—Elizabeth C. Stanton and Ma-
tilda J. Gage, New York; Laura De Force
Gordon, California; Clara B. Colby, Nebraska;
Sarah M. Perkins, Ohio; Mrs. Diggs, Kansas.
	Press—Ellen Burr, Connecticut; Ruth C.
Dennison and Ellen H. Sheldon, District of
Columbia.
	Nominations—Susan B. Anthony aud Lillie
D. Blake, New York; Clara B. Colby, Nebras-
ka; Harriet R. Shattuck, Massachusetts; Matil-
da Hindman, Pennsylvania.

THE DELEGATES PRESENT.
	The following were in attendance at the ex-
ecutive session:
	Washington, D. C.—Mrs. Ruth C. Dennison,
Miss Eliza T. Ward, Miss Martha V. Johnson;


Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Miss Elizabeth Wil-
son, Mrs. Sarah J. Messer, Miss Frances B.
Andrews, and Miss Theresa Williams.
	Connecticut—Miss F. E. Barr. 
	Colorado—Margaret Bowen.
	California—L. De F. Gordon.
	Illinois—Dr. Alice B. Stockham. 
	Kansas—A. L. Diggs.
	Kentucky—Miss Laura White. 
	Iowa—Mary E. McPherson.
	Maine—Mrs. M.S. Carlisle.
	Massachusetts—Mrs. Sophia A. Forbes, Mrs.
Cora V. Smart, Harriet R. Shattuck.
	Nebraska—Clara B. Colby.
	Maryland—Amanda M. Best.
	New York—E. C. Stanton, M. J. Gage, L.
D. Blake, C. G. Rogers, Mrs. Halleck, Mrs.
Hull, S. W. Ellis, Dr. Harriet B. Chapin.
	Ohio—S. M. Perkins, E. S. Fray.
	Pennsylvania—Matilda Hindman.
	Wyoming—Mrs. Amelia P. Post.
	At the executive session held Wednesday
morning the Woman Suffrage Association elec-
ted the following officers: President, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton; vice-presidents at large, Susan
B. Anthony,Matilda Joslyn Gage, Rev. Olym-
pia Brown, Phoebe W. Cousens, Abigail Scott
Duniway; chairman of the executive commit-
tee, May Wright Sewall; recording secretaries,
Ellen H. Sheldon, Washington ;Eliza T. Ward,
Washington; Pearl Adams,Illinois; correspond-
ing secretary, Rachel G. Foster, Philadelphia;
foreign corresponding secretaries, England,
Caroline A. Page, London; Lydia E. Becker,
Manchester; France, Mme. Marguerrette Ber-
ry Stanton; M'lle Hubertine, Anclert, and
Charlotte B. Wilbur, Paris; Germany, Clara
Neyman, Berlin; treasurer, Jane H. Spofford,
Washington; auditors, Ruth C. Dennison and
Julia A. Wilbur, of this city. In addition to
these, honorary and regular vice-presidents and
members of the executive committee were
chosen to represent the different states and ter-
ritories. The honorary vice presidents for this
District are Rosina M. Parnell, Susan Edson,
M. D., and Ruth C. Dennison, the regular lo-
cal vice president being Ellen M. O'Conner.
The chairman of the executive committee is
May Wright Sewall, and the local members
Belva A. Lockwood and Caroline B. Winslow.
	The chairman of the executive committee
submitted a number of recommendations and
suggestions, including a proposition for the es-
tablishment of a national headquarters and a
paper to be the organ of the association; and
also the holding of conventions in the different
states. Mrs. H. R. Shattuck, of Massachusetts,
reported a plan for a basis of delegate repre-
sentation.		WANDERER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SNOWVILLE, Box Elder Co., Utah.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As I have never read anything in your val-
uable columns about Snowville (which I will
state for explanation is named in honor of our
beloved Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and not be-
cause we have any more snow than you do in
Salt Lake City), I thought I would drop you a
few lines concerning our ward. We are, the
most of us, striving to be Latter-day Saints.
Our Relief Society is in full force, with Sister
Mary Goodliffe as Prest. They look after the
poor in purse and spirit, and the sick also;
they have lots of wheat on hand, in fact the
Bishop says they are the richest people in the
ward, and if you want anything done without
fail, call on the Relief Society, and it is done.
	The Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. are in a most
flourishing condition; they meet conjointly
every Sunday evening. This is the Bishop's
plan to keep the young folks together, and a
most admirable and successful one it has


proved. Their meetings are conducted similar
to those in Salt Lake City; every one, without
exception, tries to do the best he can when
called upon. I have never yet heard but one
person ask to be excused when called upon to
speak.
	The Primary Association is not behind, but
is doing its best. The Presidency, M. A. Green,
E. Ballam and S. Hurd. are alive to their du-
ties and interested in the work, striving to do
all they can to teach, instruct and interest the
children. Truly the Primary work is a great
and glorious one.
	We have a nice Sunday School, which would
compare favorably with any, I think. Of
course we have many obstacles and drawbacks
which is consistent and common to all young
settlements.
	Last, but not least, we have a Bishop (A.
Goodliffe) and counsel that are up to the mark.
They are awake and doing. We also have
that element known as "Liberalism," which is
encouraging, though trying, and a cause many
times of sorrow to the true Latter-day Saint;
but the Lord has said that there must needs be
opposition, it is necessary to taste the bitter to
know and appreciate the sweet, and where the
work of God is, there is opposition, or Satan's
work, also.
	Before closing I will tell you about a sur-
prise gotten up on the Prest. of the Y. L. M.
I. A., Sister E. E. Goodliffe, it was her birth-
day and a few relatives, etc., had been invited 
to supper, when lo and behold! here comes a
whole party and literally stormed the place,
taking our beloved President at a decided dis-
advantage. It was indeed a most enjoyable
affair. There were speeches, in which one and
all bore testimony to the goodness and worth
of Sister Goodliffe, songs, dancing and lots of
pies and cakes, etc.
	Your paper is a welcome guest in our homes
and we say long life to "Aunt Em" and her
able staff and God bless you.
	Secretary.


[Column 1]
	All the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT in the city will please send their address,
name, street and number, to this Office, in or-
der to have their papers delivered by the mail
carriers.

	The Referee, an illustrated comic paper, has
been started in this city. It is always full of
smart and funny things, at least the three
copies we have received were. The editors are
Messrs. J. Rich and S. Kenner, both celebrated
for their originality and sarcasms, puns, etc.
If the Referee does not succeed, it will not be
for lack of talented and witty editors.

[Column 2]
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
		Z.    C.   M.    I.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTER AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
	AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	and an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
	grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES by
					MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
	Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[hand pointing right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.

Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY


The British brewers last year paid $45,000,-
000 in taxes, and exported more than $7,500,-
000 worth of beer.
	George C. Miln, after being in turn a clergy-
man and an actor, is about to become a lectur-
er. Mr. Miln would make an admirable front-
ispiece for the "Descent of Man."—New York
Graphic.
	Life is warfare, and those who climb up and
down steep paths and go through dangerous
enterprises are the brave men and the leaders
in the camp, but to rest basely at the cost of
others' labors is to be a coward, safe because
despised.—Seneca.
	Sometimes the "heaviest wheat of all" may
spring up from seeds dropped in an accidental
way. What a motive to the maintenance of
personal holiness! The accidental is a shadow
of the intentional. Influence is the exhalation
of character.—W. M. Taylor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1885	No. 19.


MUSIC! MUCH I OWE TO THEE!

Minstrell of an art divine—
God has blest that Soul of thine
With a gift directly given
From the chancery of Heaven!
Mode and method may be taught,
But the spirit must be fraught
With the affatus all divine,
To inspire, inflate—and shine
Into every craving Soul,
And o'er it throws a charm'd control,
That lifts the list'ning ear entranced
Into a region all enhanced
By whisp'rings, language cannot tell,
But which the co-mate knows so well.

Hug this gift with miser's care,
Gift exalting, gift so rare!
Pray the Giver to inspire
All thy Soul with holy fire;
Ask Him to direct thy hand
To strike the chords that shall command
Holy feeling—rapturous joy,
Crushing out life's base alloy.

Thy gift shall be a costly gem,
Eternal in thy Diadem;
Calm and chasten'd mayst thou be,
Walking in humility,
Walking in the blessed light
Which thine art shall o'er ignite;
Grateful to thy God—that He
A gift divine has sent to thee,
Hug it with a miser care—
Gift exalting—gift so rare!

	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, 1885.


BETWEEN THE YEARS.

Time's river flows without a break or bridge,
	The moments run to days, the days to years:
Strange how we pause on the dividing ridge,
	Which 'twixt Old Year and New our fancy rears!

With backward survey o'er the dark "has been,"
	With forward gaze into the dark "to be."
Summing the good and ill that we have seen,
	As if God's purposes stood plain to see—

As if 'twere man's to reach heaven's far off ends;
	To reckon up Time's harvest in the seed;
To write off gains of good and ill's amends—
	The balance of their books as traders read.

As thick a fold between us and the past,
	As e'er between us and the future lies:
The ills we grieve for may work good at last:
	Out of our seeming good what ills may rise!

Only one thing we know, that over all
	A wise and loving power holds sovereign sway:
This knowing, let us stand between the years,
	Bent but to do the duty of the day;

Speaking the truth and holding to the right,
	As we the truth can reach, the right can read;
Trusting the hand that steers, through dark and light;
	By His lode-star, not ours, to ends decreed.

Between our larger and our lesser worlds,
	Of self, home, city, state, or continent,
There is no variance of far or near,
	Of great or small, in that Guide's measurement,

Twixt strokes of policy that hit or miss,
	And sleights of skill that make or mar a cause.
Then, grateful, take his gifts, his strokes, submiss,
	And look to man for rule, to Heaven for laws.

		PUNCH.


THE PAST, THE PRESENT AND
THE FUTURE.

DEAR FRIENDS:
	Thinking that a letter from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, if not all, I take the liberty of writ-
ing.
	While I reflect on the past, gaze on the
present and look through the gloom into the
future, it causes many serious reflections to
cross my mind. What do those throughts bring
to mind—does it bring always pleasure? I
think not. Is it all sorrow? No, not by any
means; but I think it is necessary for us to have
these trials; in order to make us think, and to
think of the past as well as the future, for in
looking back over our past life we see, very
often, where we have done wrong, and if we
have a heart that desires to do right, we will
make an effort to do so; and let us not think
because we have done wrong that we can-
not do anything that is right in the future, but
let us, each morning that we rise from our beds,
see if we cannot do a little more good that day
and a little less evil, so that when that future
comes, that seems so far and is yet so near,that
we may have some good laid up to balance
against the bad. We call ourselves Saints, but
I fear some of us are not aware of what per-
fect beings we ought to be; I think that we
should live so that the word saint will not be
wrongly applied, for we do not want to estab-
lish anything that is false. Let us try and live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, for we know not
the day nor the hour that we may be called to
depart from this life, and it will then be our
painful duty to give an account of the deeds
done in the body, and of what use we have
made of the time that our Heavenly Father
has granted us.
	If our time and means have been spent for
good and the advancement of His cause and
the comforting of his children it will be well
for us, if not it will be very painful indeed to
our souls. I trust that all who claim to be
Saints may be faithful to the end of all right-
eousness.
	We have a Relief Society in working order,
also a Y. M. and Y. L. Association in a good
condition. There is a Primary Association,
but it has not done much for the past year. I
think it is going to be enlivened up soon; I
think it is the greatest thing for the benefit of
the children that has ever yet been in our day,
when it is strictly attended.
	May the blessings of God rest upon the
young, that their minds may expand.
	K. E. D.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	When I look back and remember the great
responsibility that rested upon my father as
first Bishop—his poverty and privations, and
the hardships that he had to endure, the accu-
sations of false brethren, the fault-finding of
the poor, and the persecutions of our enemies
—I do not wonder at his early death. And
when I remember his conversations with my
mother, and can now comprehend, in my ma-
ture years, his extreme weariness of soul, it

[Column 2]

brings to my mind a clause of his blessing,
which says, "Thou shalt stand in thy office un-
til thou shalt desire to resign it, that thou
mayest rest for a little season."
	I think it was the first fall of our stay in
Clay Co. that a slaughter yard was established
on the banks of the river not far from where
we lived: thousands of hogs were killed and
packed for the market, giving employment to
the Saints in that vicinity. The men killing
and cutting them up, and the women and chil-
dren cutting up and trying out the lard,having
a share of all they did, and in this way the
people were provided with meat and lard,which
was a great blessing at that time. I remember
of going with mother, and doing what I could
to help her, day after day.
	While we remained in Clay County the
brethren did all they could to regain possession
of their homes. They petitioned the Governor,
employed lawyers, and tried in various ways to
gain redress, but all their efforts proved to be of
no avail. The Prophet Joseph Smith manifest-
ed great anxiety concerning the Saints in Zion
He was constantly writing letters advising
them what to do, and sending words of com-
fort and encouragement.	Revelations were
given assuring the Saints that the Lord re-
membered them in their afflictions. A father
could not have manifested more love and anx-
iety if his best beloved son had been in deep
trouble, than the Prophet did in regard to the
Saints in Missouri and their persecutions.
	The following are extracts from one of the
letters that the Prophet sent to the brethren in
Zion: "I would inform you that it is not the
will of the Lord for you to sell your lands in
Zion, if means can possibly be procured with-
out. Every exertion should be made to main-
tain the cause you have espoused and to con-
tribute to the necessities of one another as
much as possible in this your great calamity;
and remember not to murmur at the dealings
of God with His creatures. You are not as
yet brought into as trying circumstances as
were the ancient Prophets and Apostles. Call
to mind Daniel, the three Hebrew children,
Jeremiah, Paul, Stephen, and many more too
numerous to mention, who were stoned, sawn
asunder, tempted, slain with the sword, and
wandered about in sheep' skins and goat's
skins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of
whom the world were not worthy. They wan-
dered in deserts and in mountains,and in dens,
and in caves of the earth; yet they all obtained
a good report through faith, and amidst all
their afflictions they rejoiced that they were
counted worthy to receive persecution for
Christ's sake. We know not what we shall
be called to pass through before Zion is deliv-
ered and established; therefore, we have great
need to live near to God and always be in
strict obedience to all His commandments,that
we may have a conscience void of offence
towards God and man. It is your privilege to
use every means in your power to seek redress
for your grievances of your enemies, and pros-
ecute them to the extent of the law; but it will
be impossible to render you any assistance in a
temporal point of view, as our means are
already exhausted, and we are deeply in debt,
and know of no means whereby we can extri-
cate ourselves. The inhabitants of this county
threaten our destruction and we know not how
soon they may be permitted to follow the ex-
ample of the Missourians. We learn by Elder
Phelp's letter that the brethren have surren-


[Column 1]

dered their arms to the enemy and are fleeing
across the river.  If that is the case, it is not
meet that they should recommence hostilities
with them[-] but if not, you should maintain the
ground as long as there is a man left, as the
spot of ground upon which you were located is
the place appointed of the Lord for your inher-
itances, and it was right in the sight of God,
that you contend for it to the last.
     "You will recollect that the Lord has said
that Zion should not be removed out of her
place;therefore, the land should not be sold,
but be held by the Saints until the Lord in His
wisdom opens the way for your return; and un-
til that time, if you can purchase a tract of
land in Clay County for the present emergen-
cies, it is right you should do so, if you can do
it and not sell your lands in  Jackson County.
It is not safe for us to send a written revelation
on the subject, but what is written above is ac-
cording to wisdom."
     The foregoing letter was written at Kirtland
on the 5th of Dec. 1833.  A letter was also
written dated Kirtland Mills, Ohio,Dec. 10th,
1833. 
	"Beloved brethren, E. Partridge, W. W.
Phelps, J. Corrill,J. Morley, and all the Saints
whom it may concern: This morning's mail
brought Bishop Partridge's, and Elders Corrill
and Phelps' letters, all mailed at Liberty, Nov[-]
19th, which gave us the melancholy intelli-
gence of your flight from the land of your in-
heritance, having been driven before the face
of your enemies in that place.  From previous
letters we learned that a number of our breth-
ren had been slain, but we could not learn from
those referred to above, as there had been but
one, and that was Bro. Barber, and Bro. Dib-
ble was wounded in the bowels.  We were
thankful to learn that no more had been slain,
and our daily prayers are that the Lord will
not suffer His Saints who have gone up to His
land to keep His commandments, to stain His
holy mountain with their blood.  I cannot
learn from any communication by the Spirit to
me that Zion has forfeited her claim to a Celes-
tial Crown, notwithstanding the Lord has
caused her to be thus afflicted, except it may
be some individuals who have walked in dis-
obedience and forsaken the new covenant; all
such will be made manifest by their works in
due time.
     "I have always expected that Zion would suf
fer some affliction, from what I could learn
from the commandments which have been
given.  But I would remind you of a clause in
one which says that after much tribulation
cometh the blessing. By this, and also others,
and also one received of late,I know that Zion,
in the own due time of the Lord, will be re-
deemed; but how many will be the days of her
purification, tribulation and affliction the Lord
has kept hid from my eyes;and when I inquire
concerning this subject the voice of the Lord
is, be still, and know that I am God:  All
those who suffer for my name sake shall reign
with me, and he that layeth down his life for
my sake shall find it again.
     "Now, there are two things of which I am
ignorant, and the Lord will not show them un-
to me, perhaps for a wise purpose in Himself,
I mean in some respects; and they are these:
why has God suffered so great a calamity to
ocme upon Zion, and what the great moving
cause of this great afflication is.  And again,by
what means He will return her back to her in-
heritance with everlasting joy upon her head.
These two things, brethren, are in part kept
back that they are not plainly manifest,in con-
sequence of those who have incurred the dis-
pleasure of the Almighty.
     "When I contemplate upon all things that
have been manifested, I am sensible that I
ought not to murmur only in this, that those
who are innocent are compelled to suffer for
the iniquities of the guilty; and I cannot ac-

[Column 2] 

count for this, only on this wise, that the say-
ing of the Savior has not been strictly ob-
served, 'If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it
out and cast it from thee; or if thy right arm
offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee.'
Now, the fact is, if any of the members o[-] our
body are disordered the rest of our body will
be affected with them, and then all is brought
into bondage together; and yet,  notwithstand-
ing all this, when I know that you, my breth-
ren, with whom I have had so many happy
hours, sitting, as it were, in heavenly places in
Christ Jesus, and also having the witness
which I feel, and ever have felt, of the purity
of your motives, are cast out, and are as stran-
gers and pilgrims on the earth, exposed to hun-
ger, cold, nakedness, peril, sword, etc. I say,
when I comtemplate this, it is with difficulty
that I can keep from complaining and mur-
muring against this dispensation; but I am sen-
sible that this is not right, and may God grant
that notwithstanding your great afflictions and
sufferings, there may not anything separate us
from the love of Christ. 
	"Brethren, when we learn your sufferings it
awakens every sympathy of our hearts, it
weighs us down, we cannot refrain from tears,
yet we are not able to realize only in part your
sufferings.	And I often hear the brethren say[-]
ing that they wish they were with you that
they might bear part of your sufferings: and I
myself should have been with you, [-]ad not
God prevented it in the order of His provi-
dence, that the yoke of affliction might be less
grievious upon you; God having forewarned
me concerning these things, for your sakes; and
also Oliver Cowdery could  not have lightened
your afflictions by tarrying longer with you,for
his presence would have so much the more en-
raged your enemies.  God hath dealth merciful-
ly with us.
     "O brethren, let us be thankful th at it is as
well with us, as it is, and we are yet alive, that
preadventure God hath la[-]d up in store great
good for us in this generation, and  grant that
we may yet glorify His name."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿ONLY A TRAMP.

	My husband, returning home from a short
walk one Sunday morning, related to me a lit-
tle incident that took place while absent. He
said:
	"As I was walking leisurely along, deeply
absorbed in thought, a tramp, as they are com-
monly called,suddenly came upon me unawares.
I saluted him wtth a pleasant 'good morning,
sir,' received a gruff answer in return, and as
we were both going in the same direction, we
both passed along together. The conversation
turned upon the topic uppermost in almost
every person's mind, that is, hard times. He
stated that he had just come from Idaho; had
been all through seeking work—he had rode
but a short distance, and had walked the rest
of the way to Salt Lake City, but the famine
for work being so great he had been so far un-
successful.
	He said it seemed as though there was
nothing but scoffs and jeers for him, and that
it was printed on every board, "There is
nothing here for you." And he also said: "I
shall not starve in a land of plenty. If I can-
not get means by honest labor I shall resort to
other ways!" With this, and other similar
careless and reckless speeches he left me.
	It set my husband to contemplating: Could
it be that we were driving a great many of
our fellow beings to destruction, simply by
giving them careless, cold, indifferent speeches,
when it would not take any more exertion to
give a few kind, encouraging words? for it is
far better to help a fallen brother up hill,than
to kick him down.
	While he was relating this incident a young
girl about twelve years of age, being in the

[Column 2]

house, commenced laughing and jesting about
an experience she, with some other playmates
of about the same age, had had with two
tramps.
	Coming home from school one night, and
seeing a couple of so called tramps ahead of
them; they immediately devised mischief to-
wards them; they threw stones at them, at the
same time calling them abusive names that were
entirely uncalled for.
	The said tramps turned upon them angrily,
thereby frightening them some, but as soon as
they resumed their way they immediately be-
gan their abuse again until they were beyond
their reach.
	Thus it was that two men, fellow creatures,
walking along, minding their own business,
were molested and abused, simply because they
were ungainly in appearance.
	To my question put to her, "Did those men
interfere with you in the first place?" she said,
"Oh, now!" "Then why did you interfere with
them?" "Oh, they were only tramps, and we
wanted some fun."
	Methinks it should be one of the first princi-
ples that parents should instil into the minds
of their children, to be kind to every one.
Never speak a harsh word, or perform a rude
act, just because their outward appearances
are ungainly. Strive to act the lady and
gentleman to all, to the rich and to the poor—
the poor are just as much deserving and some-
times much more.
	Remember that sometimes the fairest flower
has oft hidden within its bosom some subtle
poison, and those who inhale its perfume are
slowly imbibing death; and it is just so with
some people; they are dressed fine, have a
smooth, oily speech, and seem without tarnish
or taint, but notwithstanding all this, beneath
lurks some evil, venomous spirit; and some-
times the humblest flower has hidden some
kind, healing power, likewise with some people
whom adversity has frowned on too severely,
they have an ungainly exterior, but under-
neath all of this may beat a warm, true heart.
So remember and beware, if you scoff and jeer,
make sport of a poor, fallen creature because
of his ungainly attire you may be abusing
a diamond of the first water, for you know we
have to dig deep to find the finest diamonds, or
what would be far worse, this same one might
be one of God's chosen elect.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mary Howitt still lives in Tyrol. She is now
eighty-five years old.
	Miss Matilda Hindman makes her depart-
ment in the Pittsburg Commercial Gazette in-
teresting and useful.
	Rosa Bonheur's last painting, a cattle scene
in the Pyrenees, has been offered to a New
York dealer for $12,000.
	The Canada Citizen says that the municipal
vote of the women in the late electoral contest
decided the election of mayor in Fergus and
Belleville.
	In the Ecole de Médecine in Paris, there are
seventy-eight female students, of whom forty
six are Russians,fourteen Frenchwomen, eleven
Englishwomen, and seven Americrns.
	A bill for municipal suffrage for women has
been formally introduced in the Michigan Sen-
ate by Senator Belknap. It was given a first
and second reading by title, and referred to
the Committee on Judiciary.
	Mme. Patti telegraphed from America, in
holiday week, ordering that a tradesman at
Swansea should send three wagon loads of
blankets and flannel to Crag-y-nos for distribu-
tion among the poor in the neighborhood of
her country residence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY RECORD.

	BY ESTHER A. BENNION

All day long I have baffled with care -
	Go from my presence, thou restless sprite,
Leave me to rest in my old arm-chair,
Leave me alone with my thoughts to night.

Slowly rolls backward the backward the curtain of time,
	Bringing me back to my early youth;
Back to my home in my native clime,
	Where gladly I heard the message of truth.

I plainly remember the vows I made
	To serve my God with a faithful heart,
To seek to become a Saint indeed,
If strength sufficient He would impart.

Year after year has faded away;
	Joys and sorrows have come to me;
The hair of my head is sprinkled with grey,
	My step more feeble than used to be.

Have I been true to the vows I made -
	What is the record my conscience bears?
Have I been true to the light I had -
	instead of wheat am I sowing tares?

Come, little children, and plead for me:
	Have I not loved you with love untold?
Have I not taught you most earnestly
Truths that are better than silver or gold?

You that were lent to me, sons of my heart,
Will you not answer me frankly and just,
Have I not acted a true mother's part,
Have I not tried to be true to my trust?

Where are the aged and weary to-night,
Have I not striven to comfort and bless,
Have I not ever defended the right,
And held out a hand to help in distress?

I wish I oculd peep at the records above--
In courts of heaven--by angels kept,
To see if my name is written in love,
Or branded as one who "slumbered and slept."

Resting awhile in my old arm chair,
All alone, in the dead of the night,
With noe but God and my conscience near,
I fear my record is far from bright.

Ah me!  I have made so many mistakes;
Have failed so often my duty to see;
"The spirit is willing, the flesh is weak,"
	Father, I pray Thee, deal gently with me!
Feb. 17th, 1885.


TO THE GIRLS.

Be true to yourselves, girls, always be true;
Be honest, be upright, whatever you do;
Give heed to the monitor God placed in you
To guide you aright, girls—'twill carry you through.

Be true to yourselves, girls, be pleasant, be kind,
For in giving true friendship true friends you will find;
And for every good deed in your lives that you do,
Will be paid back ten fold in good deeds to you.

Be modest, be gentle, be helpful to all,
Let your tongue not speak words they would wish to
	recall;
Girls, keep no company not worthy of you,
For if you choose wisely, you've enough to pass
	through.

Speak kindly to mother—if you could but know
The pleasure you give, how it makes her heart glow—
By a sweet, loving sympathy sharing her cares,
Removing by kindness the hardships of years.

And now, dearest girls, of one thing take heed,
If you cannot see into your good parent's creed,
Are there things in their faith that you don't compre-
	hend,
Inquire of them kindly, and never contend;

For they have the knowledge, God gave, it to them,
Of the truth and the power of their faith, and to men
Who have proved it, and left all their friends for the
	cause,
'Tis hurtful to hear you make light of God's laws.

And oh! dear young sisters, in years that's to come,
When you look back and think of your childhood's
	home,


And know you were kind, and loving, and true,
It will comfort and cheer you all your life through.
		ANNIE FREE.
	Manuscript Paper, "Farmer's Ward Gazette."


[Column 1]

COLLEGE EVILS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is a serious question if the risks people
take in sending their children away from home
to be educated do not far out-balance the prob-
able good an education will bring. It is true
that evil is not necessarily evil associated either
with going away from home, or with an educa-
tion; and it is just as true that there is no neces-
sary association of what is commonly under-
stood by the word "greatness" with a college,
or a superior education. The object of life is,
or should be, perfect manhood and womanhood
—that perfection which embraces all the moral,
intellectual and social excellences known to
the age we live in, and to the strong and crav-
ing spirit of humanity.
	Education in its broadest sense implies all
knowledge, and all experience; so that to live
and to retain the power of intellect, is, in that
sense, ever to become better educated. But
special pursuits, special studies (and it is with
these we now deal), do not comprehend that
fuller education which comprises all things.
College education, nor any special education, is
not the great object.
	Like all other segregated fragments of a
grand and perfect whole, it is but one of many
equally important and essential attainments;
like all the rest, it is but a means to an end—
that end, human perfection. This fact does
not detract from the value of scholastic attain-
ments, for all knowledge is a power—but a
power, it must ever be borne in mind, equally
potent for good or for evil. The element of
goodness, or virtue, or moral excellence, is out-
side of scholarly erudition, it exists independ-
ent of it; wider knowledge simply widens the
scope for the exercise of those attributes which
are comprehended in the general term good;
consequently there is a possibility that exten-
sive, or even limited learning may be acquired
at the expense of those higher and nobler and
more desirable attributes or attainments known
as moral excellences, and it is often the case
that the little benefit which college pursuits
and experiences bring to young men are dearly
bought, particularly where the price is the
moral basis, foundation or intuition. That is
why the assertion contained in the introductory
sentence was made. "It is a serious question
if the risks people take in sending their child-
ren away from home to be educated don't far
out-balance the possible good an education will
bring."
	Young men, or boys, sent to college, leave
home at a time when character is forming. The
plastic condition of the mind and the suscepti-
bility of nature at that age, which render in-
struction so satisfactory and productive of such
lasting results—are not without dangers, for
the same mobility of mind and susceptibiliiy of
nature are as often to the influences of evil as
of good. The character is then a tender bud,
developing into the perfect flower, where the
conditions are congenial, but dwarfed, and
scraggy and unsightly if the surroundings are
adverse, or if the care is not uniform. It is
the most dangerous period in the life of man or
woman, the hour when most is needed the
watchful eye of the earnest parent. At that
trying hour the parent who sends his son away
from home influence, or permits him to leave
it, offers him as a bait to every temptation of a
vile and wicked world.
	The faculty of a college deal with the intel-
lect not with the moral nature of the pupil, for
three reasons: First, the parent does not want
the teacher to teach that branch; the faculty

[Column 2]

could not do it, and the student will not sub-
mit to it. The boy is social; he seeks compan-
ions who, like himself, want entertainment.
Study is work, and work, save to prodigies, old
or young, is irksome. To escape study is to
be free from work. They plan to be idle, not
meaning harm, and then begins the awakening
to that endless round of sin, to which the
vices and ingenuity of the wicked and the vile
have, for century upon century, been accumu-
lating. There is no loving, no watchful no
guarding eye. The boy is his own master. He
cannot appreciate the danger, and he tastes and
tastes again, until he drinks of the cup, filled
with what seems to be wondrously delicious
drafts. yet at the bottom of which is the poison
of disease and death. Is it a wonder that boys
fall? Money is sent them and they send it
as they will. Half—nay, three-fourths of the
boys who leave a college, depart from it little
if any the better, intellectually, for the time
spent there, and they are moral wrecks; their
consciences are inured to sin; the highest law
known to them is personal gratification with
such reasonable or unreasonable restraint as
they may determine from themselves. The
fact that all are guilty, or equally "free from
old fogy restraint," as it is put, serves only to
give them confidence, and the old sting is ulti-
mately realized if license in the man, which
begins with the boy, widens the mistaken idea
that it is liberty.
	I was in New York on Thanksgiving Day.
The college boys indulged in a holiday; there
was a brutal contest called "foot ball." At
night a friend asked me to go with him; we
visited several concert rooms, and they were
crowded beyond the power of words to express
with these college students, boys not yet out of
their teens, smoking, chewing, drinking and
drunken. They were swaggering and stagger-
ing about, displaying money, and were the easy
victims of vile men, and of the vile (I can
hardly say unfortunate) women, who crowded
about them like leeches, luring them to that
loss of morality which should be above all
price—that highest intellectual, moral, spirit-
ual and social attainment—virtue. I wondered
how much the mothers of these boys knew of
their college life; and it does not take me long
to decide that the probable benefits were not
sufficient compensation for the risks taken, for
the almost certain evil to follow. This is not
an unusual event; it is the rule where opportuni-
ty is afforded.
	If College education is the great desidera-
tum then send your boys away from home. If
it is only a means to an end I  believe the end
can better be accomplished. Of course this
evil is not a necessary attendant; boys go and
return pure, but the temptation is to all. Those
who resist it are few indeed.
	WANDERING BOY.


On Wednesday, January 28th, the direct ca-
ble was broken about 400 miles from the coast
of Ireland, and it is believed that it cannot be
repaired until spring. This makes the fourth
cable lost by the allied companies--the two
Gould cables, the French and the direct. The
Anglo and the Commercial are the only two 
lines in working order.

	Patents have been issued for the week end-
ing Feb. 3, 1884:
	Martha E. Boyd, Carthage, Ill., foot-warm-
er.
	Sarah A. Moulton, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
meat-tender.
	Margaret E. Knight, Ashland, Mass., spit
for roasting meat.
	Anna M. Rittenhouse, Philadelphia, Pa., ink-
well guard.
	Mary R. Walpole, Mayfield, Ky., wash-
boiler.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for tha price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines, of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m.to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1885


THE INAUGURATION OF CLEVELAND.

	An event of great importance to the people of
the United States is now just at hand. The in-
auguration of the Chief Executive of the Re-
public. To all who love their country and ap-
preciate the administration of law and justice it
will be a momentous time. It will doubtless
portend great changes in many places and in
different respects. The Democratic party have
been waiting long for an opportunity to show
their strength in the nation, and at the time of
the election of Rutherford B. Hayes in 1877, the
party felt sure of a complete victory, but were
obliged to submit with the best grace possible to
their defeat. This time there seems to be no
shadow on their cloudless horizon, but all is
clear, and every prospect bids fair to usher in
the President elect with all the pomp and cere-
mony a Republican form of government makes
admissible.
     Already grand and elaborate preparations are
being made at the Capital, and a gathering of
noted people from all parts of the country has
commenced in good earnest. Washington will
be fairly ablaze with splendor for one day at
least, and although Grovesnor Cleveland is said
to be a very plain and unassuming man in the
matter of display and eclat, yet on this one oc-
casion society and custom will compel him to
accept for the day at least the formal attentions
and homage of an enthusiastic and delighted
populace.  The very fact of the long time that
has elapsed since a Democratic President filled
the office most honorable in the gift of the peo-
ple, will serve to heighten in a very great de-
gree the exultation of the people over the vic-
tory, now successfully gained. It is but justly
due to the lofty position of the President of so
great a nation, that some formal steps should be
taken to make the occasion one long to be re-
membered, one significant in all its bearings of
the true spirit of Americanism. It impresses
the masses of the people much more forcibly
than the simple fact itself. They would almost
forget that such an even had taken place were
it not for the pomp and ceremony, the elaborate
display of flags and banners and the noise of
cannons and martial music. The common peo-
ple, plain as they may seem, glory in these out-
ward symbols of greatness. Besides, this is a
day of show and parade and festivities, gay col-
ors and ostentation, when everywhere we see
flaunting in the ranks of the civil and the mili-
tary the most elaborate display in style and or-
namentation. When men and women prefer
the sunflower to the violet, and aspire to aesthet-
icism no matter how insipid and insignificant
they may make themselves, what is the civi-
lized world to expect?
	But not to diverge from the inauguration,
there can be no doubt that everything will be
managed on a most magnificent scale.  It is the
American style to spend money profusely, and
when it is for the purpose of inaugurating a
Democratic President after so many long years
of weary waiting, no pains will be spared to
make it the event of the day in which we live.
	The dedication of the stupendous Washington
monument is barely over, when close upon the
heels of destiny comes a national event of the
greatest significance, either for good or ill to
every citizen of this commonwealth.
	To be sure, much depends upon other things
connected with the office; for instance, it is a 
well authenticated fact in history that it is often
the case, the power behind the throne is greater
than the power on the throne.
	It is thought now that the members of Pres.
Cleveland's Cabinet will be Bayard, Secretary of
State; Manning, Secretary of Treasury; Lamar,
Secretary of Interior; Garland, Attorney Gener-
al; Vilas, Postmaster General, with a probability
that Whitney will be Secretary of navy, and
Endicott Secretary of War.  It is well known
that three at least of these men are pronounced
antiMormon in thier views and will be likely to
approve and justify the harshest measures
against this people.  In view of the new admin-
istration we can see nothing to be hoped for as
far as Utah is concerned, except a change of
officers with decidedly opposite views, and
sometimes a radical change is a good thing, even
if no other benefit be derived from it than get-
ting in new people who are not initiated in all
the ways and means through which the present
officials and their helps have brought about this
religious crusade.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     ERRATA.--In the first paragraph of “Scenes
and Incidents,”in our last issue, a sentence was
omitted which rendered the remainder of the
subject almost senseless.  It was written in the
journal: “By Bro. Kimball’s request I went to
assist Shter Hyrum Smith to move up from the
river.”
	THE young ladies of Bear Lake Stake have is-
sued a small magazine entitled, “The Literary
Garland,” representing the Y. L. M. I. A. of
that Stake of Zion. Miss Libby Laker, Editor.
It is published at St. Chairles, Idaho, and bears
the motto, "Knowledge is Power.” The copy
shown us by a friend la No. 2, Vol.1, published
July, 1831, and contains 20 pages.  The editorial
is well written and contains excellent advice to
the young ladies.  The other articles of prose
and poetry are mostly from the young girls of
that Stake, and are a great credit to the Asso-
ciations.  It is a very commendable effort on
the part of the young ladies in that locality, and
we sincerely hope their enterprise will succeed.
The WOMAN'S EXPONENT offers congratulations
and would be glad to exchange.
	“THE NEW ERA,” successor to “Our Herald,”
is now  published in Chicago, Elizabeth Boynton
Herbert, well known to our readers and to the
public generally as one of the representative
women of America, is the editor.  It is in square
magazine form and contains sixty-two pages, is
published monthly.  The articles are all from
the pens of able writers; and we think it one of
the very best womens’ papers of the present
time, when there are many that are good.
These journals and magazines in the hands of
thoughtful and intelligent women are doing a
vast amount of good, more than we can enumer-
ate. They reach all classes of society and are
sowing not only in good ground, but broadcast,
much precious seed that will spring into bud,
blossom and fruit in due time for the advance-
ment of the human family.


WHAT ARE WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Having a few moments to spare I thought I
would jot down a few of my reflections upon the
reading of the minutes of the “Woman Suffrage
Convention, lately held in the City of Washing-
ton, D. C., and published in your issue of  Feb-
ruary 15, especially the following on page 150:
"Whereas the dogmas incorporated in religious
creeds derived from Judaism, teaching that wo-
man was an afterthought of creation, her sex a
misfortune, marriage a condition of subordina-
tion and maternity a curse."  And concluding
with the words, "that in true religion there is
neither male nor female, bond nor free, but all
are one."
     I am writing now not for the purpose of pro-
voking discussion with the estimable ladies of
the East who are so earnestly advocating and
working for the rights of their sex, but for the
women of Mormondom, who, above all the rest
of womankind, have need to understand correct-
ly the relation that man and woman, especially
husband and wife, sustain to each other; be-
cause their religion (which Mrs. Stanton after-
wards claimed had a debasing tendency) teaches
some principles which, if true, involve eternal
consequences, but if false, then are we most
grossly deceived.
     What are the facts?  Adam was the first man
and Eve the first woman;  no matter whether
she came in company with him or followed af-
ter.  We find the two together living in har-
mony and peace; we have no record of conten-
tion, jealousy, or distrust manifesting itself dur-
ing their entire residence in the Garden of Eden.
Although history is silent in regard to the time
they spent together in this happy state, yet it is
evident from records that some time did elapse,
also that they were familiar with the Almighty
and received visits from Him during that
period.
     But a change is wrought.  By whom?  By the
serpent.  First seriously affecting Eve, because
she yielded to his wiles, afterwards Adam, be-
cause he voluntarily partook; and through these
the entire creation involving consequences and
conditions that are beyond the power of argu-
ment to reason away or philosophy to disperse,
no matter how profound.
     The f[-]at of the Almighty (Jehovah) goes
forth--read the third chapter of Genesis from
the ninth to the nineteenth verses, inclusive.
Nearly six thousand years of our time has
elapsed since then, exhibiting humanity, in fact
all creation, in every possible phase and condi-
tion.  Tell me, has God's word as pertaining to
the earth, to the serpent, to Eve, to Adam,
failed in any one particular?  Does the serpent
crawl upon his belly; is there enmity between
him and man?  Does woman still bring forth
in sorrow?  Is the ground still cursed; and does the
thorn and thistle still grow spontaneously, in-
volving constant labor to keep in check?  Does
the sweat drop to-day from the brow of the hus-
bandman, and does man finally die, and woman
too?  All nature answers with one united voice,
"'Tis true."
     Now we come to one little clause contained in
the text: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband,
and he shall rule over thee."  Shall we patient-
ly submit to all the rest because we are unable
to alter and fight against, protest, ignore, and
finally defy the Almighty to pronounce these
words?  No.  We will accept of the penalty in
its entirety, for it is a penalty. We will submit
to the ordeal and thank God for the privilege,
because it is the road to life, immortality and
eternal glory.  But this rule of man, in what
does it consist?  Can its powers be defined?  Is
woman necessarily man's slave; is there left to
her no right to reason, no power of choice?


[Column 1]
﻿Because she was deceived by the serpent must
she be deprived of will power during her mortal
career? Mormonism inculcates no such princi-
ples, teaches no such doctrine.  If woman at-
tains to exaltation with man, it will be because
she merits in her own right that exaltation. If
she ever strives at a condition of glory it will be
because the elements necessary to such a condi-
tion dwell within herself.
   But can woman be advised, counseled and di-
rected by man, and yield thereto without sacri-
ficing in the least her womanhood?  Most cer-
tainly. As man can yield to his fellow man and
stlll retain his manhood.
   Can man attain to a fulness of exaltation
without woman?  No, verily.  For as the race
cannot be perpetuated upon earth without wo-
man, so the lives cannot be continued hereaf-
ter without her.  Then is she not necessary to
man, both here and hereafter?  Most truly.  As
woman would be utterly helpless without man
in accomplishing her destiny.
   Then instead of claiming"that in true religion
there is neither male nor female,” we assert
that, it is most essential that the sexes be pre-
served intact with their peculiar gifts, qualifica-
tions, endowments and rights, operating and la-
boring in their peculiar sphere to accomplish and
bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah in their
creation, and this labor should be entered upon
and continued harmoniously without jar or dis-
cord.  The man who is jealous of woman in the
exercise of all the powers that belong to her is
an object of pity; the woman who presumes to
perform the functions of man unsexes herself.
   But is woman man’s equal? This seems to be
the grand culminating point in all discussions
upon this subject.  Viewed from the woman’s
suffrage standpoint I would answer the ques-
tion, most certainly.  She should vote in com-
pany with man at every election untram-
melled and free, for if the sentiments of
Rev. Olympia Brown, as expressed in the Con-
vention, be true concerning man, then is woman
not only his equal but more than his peer.  But
from a Mormon standpoint I would answer the
question more fully.
   The fact of woman enjoying the right of fran-
chise in Utah for so many years past, and that,
too, a voluntary gift of our Legislature without
her asking, is a proof positive that we have no
fear of our wives and daughters, and we shall
fight most determinedly against any infringe-
ment in this regard  All who are acquainted
with Mormon customs know that from the first,
woman has had the right to vote in common
with men upon all public matters, and especial-
ly so in regard to the exercise of priestly author-
ity and rule, thus carrying out the will of the
Almighty that“all things shall be done by com-
mon consent.”
   But is man the head of the woman? Paul says
that he is, as Christ is the head of the Church.
There is no authority or office of the Priesthood
but man can receive of himself without the
woman, and exercise its powers and functions
independent of her.  Whereas, if woman ever
receives any degree of Priesthood it will be in
connection with and because of her relation to 
man. To use some familiar terms by way of il-
lustration: If a woman ever becomes a queen it
will be because of her relation to a king; if a
Priestess, because she is the wife of a Priest, he
having preceded her and received of himself his
authority, she following in possession first be-
cause of merit; second, because of right of in-
heritance by virtue of relationship to the man,
their union having been sanctified by the pow-
ers of heaven. Their increase inheriting all that
belongs to both father and mother.  Such a
union of man and woman perpetuating eternal
dominion in which is incorporated all the glory

[Column 2]
that is possible to conceive.  Child submitting
to parent, wife yielding to husband, man bow-
ing down to the Savior, and that Savior giving
up all to the Father, that “God may be all in
all.”  Each one while thus yielding, still retain-
ing their individual power and place unimpaired,
filled to a fulness according to their position and
calling, without one feeling of distrust or jeal-
ousy in regard to the other. Can man, woman
or child ask for more than this?
   While we sympathise, with the women of
Christendom in their earnest endeavors to ob-
tain their rights, and while we sense the wrongs
of which men are guilty and the terrible condi-
tion of the world viewed from every standpoint,
should we not be thankful for what we have re-
ceived of the true knowledge of God and the
principles of eternal life thst renders unneces-
sary any argument or contention in regard to
individual br sexual rights, for is not our calling
and election made sure?
						  J. E. TAYLOR,
   Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE. 

	This is a little word of only four letters, yet
how potent, how powerful, and with it comes
our liberty or bondage. If we love right, we
are free; free in our souls, pure in our hearts, let
come what may, though oft through surround-
ing circumstances and worldly influence we are
swerved from the right, not having the moral
courage to resist evil, or know for ourselves the
sad results of weakness and hatred until too
late.
	Love, not fear, prompts the Latter-day Saints
to take upon them this title of honor. God so
loved the world that He gave His Son as a ran-
som; and in all His life and attributes we find
nothing but the purest love and the greatest self-
sacrifice for us. Can we be ashamed to own our
Lord? Never.
	History gives but few exceptions where man
who held power loved his fellow man better
than himself, even science must see her advo-
cates give their lives for the self-evident truths
she blesses mankind with; and when once cus-
tom sets her foot in a certain channel, woe to
those who divulge therefrom, whether it be
right or wrong. From Abraham to Washington,
divine ravelation has told the Saints of these
men and their mission, end no where in this
fair land are Columbus and Washington appre-
ciated and understood as here in Zion. The
legacy of freedom given us by our noble ances-
tors in this goodly land, we prize and mean to
maintain, here where the oppressed can find a
refuge, here where a nation has grown from in-
fancy to manhood in so short a time, we would
naturally expect liberty to live a life of vigor
for hundreds of years, but we find feeble old age
has come all too soon in some portions of the
land, and poor Idaho is evidently letting her
standard of liberty sink into an untimely grave.
	Is it for the love of their fellow men that citi-
zens of the United States are declared slaves in
Idaho? Let the world read and judge what men
love to do with the rights of their fellow men
when ones their souls are fettered with hate in-
stead of love for those who are walking in a bet-
ter and purer atmosphere than their own easy,
downward road. Behold how crooked can they
make the straight and just way of constitution-
al liberty bond.
	Because the Saints believed that God had
spoken from the heavens again and in His love
for His children had revealed the truth were
they branded and driven. Again comes the
voice of our Father that there is a higher and
better law. Will we obey it? Yes; the noble

[Column 2]
men and God-fearing women would honor the
source of their being, would honor the cause of
social regeneration, and be the noble pioneers of
a higher and holier life; for this are they ac-
cused of crime, yet will they contend to protect
virtue and love to bestow all the rights the fair
daughters of Eve are entitled to through their
obedience to the laws of God.
	It has become popular to hate the Mormons,
but do those who revile know what the Gospel
we have embraced is? We answer it in two or
three words—a consistent life. We love the
truth and control ourselves, for this are we as-
sailed on the right and on the left.
	The men that love to defile the daughters of 
Eve are unworthy the name of men, and no
man has the right to lay the weight of his
hand on a woman, "except in the marriage re-
lation." Would to God the women of the world
had the same protection that we, the Mormon
women, have: the blighted lives and sad hearts
that are seen by our Heavenly Father caused
by the lust and inconstancy of lustful Mormon-
hating men is enough to cause the very heavens
to weep.
	Where can we find pure love? In the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; there ir sits enthroned.
If sorrow and death visit such a household there
is comfort and relief at hand. A friend of mine
was called to part with his first wife. When
she was dying he said, "Mother, what do you
wish to say about the children?" With a look
of love and confidence she replied, "Anna will
do just as well by you and the children as I."
And there are thousands of such instances that
prove our confidence in and love for each other.
Is this love or lust?
	Another instance--In conversation with a 
brother who has thirty-six children, he said not
one ever gave him a saucy or unkind word; his 
descendants, all told, number over one hun-
dred. Lust kills the evidences of its crime, love
saves, cherishes and rears them to become noble
men and women, and claims the wives and
children as his own wealth for time and all eter-
nity.
	Over 4,200 lovely, bright, intelligent children
partake of the Lord's Supper every Sabbath, and
there are over 3,200 little ones under eight years
of age in their dear native Utah. And when we
look around among our noble boys and girls,
who can help exclaiming, surely the Lord is
with His people. Proud might any nation be
of such treasures. Is this the sign of decay, of
degredation, of disloyalty to our government?
Not to any right-minded, reasonable person. Our
principles are perfect, and we will continue to
love them and strive to live them,God being our
helper, protest the rights of others, envy no
one, be pure in our daily walk in life and leave-
the result in God's hands.
Zina D.H. Young


MIND IN MEDICINE.
	I have just laid down a small book bearing
the above title; and think it would be quite as
appropriate to call it medicine in mind. I have
read it through twice, and dipped into it fre-
quently besides; I felt from the first perusal it
was worthy a study. The author is metaphysi-
cal, and his thoughts flow so rapidly that he tel-
escopes his ideas; consequently the book must
be read closely to read it understandingly, that
the reader may take in his original and unique
assertions. Much truth is embodied within its
leaves, which, without close attention, we
should fail to realize.
	A deep thinking mind is exhibited through
its pages, and I have read parts over and over
again to make myself sure that I comprehend-
ed the author's meaning. I feel that it contains


much that will benefit its readers if reduced to
practice. To those who read that they may be
edified and instructed, such writers as the author
are public benefactors, and such should be the
motive-power of all readers.
	He vividly portrays the effect of imagination
with regard to ailments and disease upon an
over-sensitive and excitable nature, fear produc-
ing the disease so much dreaded; as prophecy,so
called, has often been known to be the cause of
its own fulfillment. The author evidently pos-
sesses one of the greatest gifts of God, viz. com-
mon sense! and his book should lie on the writ-
ing table of all, that it may be taken up in
spare moments, and its ideas will be found to
have a fructifying influence, more or less, on all
who study its contents to be instructed, it is de-
cidedly a book of reference, a wise monitor whom
the wise will appreciate.
	Even the strong and well balanced mind has
clouds flitting over it at times. The sun itself
has its spots,and the brightest day its little float-
ers ranging over its glorious concave, hence a
friend as “Mind in Medicine” is a friend in
need.
	I will give a brief extract or two from his
unique ideas: “Is sickness a sin? Yes, often
through some of our antecedents—‘some one has
blundered that line of Tennyson’s is true of all
aches and pains! Every saint by his or her
sanctity cleanses themselves and their off-
spring.” “A healthy body is a sign of a holy
life."
	“Mental medicine is not only sure, but often
wonderfully swift; a ray of light from a kind
countenance, a conviction that you are dear to
somebody, gives an impulse of courage from a
Christ like reassurring WILL—a word may be a
medicine, a letter, a piece of paper thrown into
the mall, a white-winged messenger,more beau-
tiful than doves, flying thousands of miles on
its errand of love, across the continent, on the
mighty ocean; but it reaches me, I touch it, and
I feel the warm current of life rushing through
my heart and veins—It is a cordial, but from no
bin or flask—it is a comforter, but not of silk or
elder-down or wool.

[Column 2]
were perfectly at ease in their very difficult
parts. Their singing, their acting and their
witticisms all merited the enthusiastic applause
they received from the audience. Mrs. Leviberg
as Lady Jane sustained the part with all the en-
thusiasm of a professional. Her voice is good
and thoroughly cultivated. Both Patience and
Lady Jane received quite a number of floral of-
ferings. Angela, Birdie Cummings, and Saphir,
Louise Wells, both looked and acted their parts
with becoming grace and dignity. The sex-
tette, in which Edna Russell, Louise Wells and
Lucy Young, and Messrs. Pyper, Crawford
and Barnes sang, was one of the gems of the
evening Fred Clawson created considerable
enthusiasm whenever he appeared, and added
to the humorous character of the play. The or-
chestra played exquisitely and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Prof. Krouse has labored assiduously while
training the young people for Patience, and de-
serves great credit for the success of the per-
formance. Altogether it was quite a notable
event, quite as much so, if not more than Pina-
fore. The whole affair was very well arranged
and admirably managed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PLEASED WITH PATIENCE AND ITS
PERFORMERS.

EDITOT DESERET NEWS:
     I went to see Patience last evening, and was
amply repaid, as was every body else, I am sure,
who saw it.  One feature of the performance
was yery noticeable, and indeed, very enjoyable
to me, as it must have been to every person of
age and experience, who had the pleasure of
witnessing it. namely, that sweet, that inno-
cent refined look of purity that filled the stage
from the beautiful Mrs. Leviberg to the charm-
ing little Miss Thatcher—a feature, I am sorry
to say, seldom adorns the stage of to-day.  This,
Mr. Editor, to such as I who have traveled and
known the world for many years now, proved a
treat never to be forgotten, and on this account
homes and that same country which should
have protected them.
     Mrs. Sessions continues: “3rd. Bro. Brig-
ham took dinner with us.  Next day went
back three miles to where Parley P. Pratt was
camped, his wife had a daughter born.  On
the 4th, Independence Day, the Indians rode
out in style, came to the camp and danced for
us.  It was a war dance, and they were paint-
ed after their fashion.  6th. Crossed the Mis-
souri River; we are here situated between the
mountains, in the valley, no road cut yet, but
the men are at work making one as fast as
they can.  Wednesday, 8, the team has gone
back to fetch up Bro, Call, Tuesday, 14.
Eliza Lyman was taken sick, I was sent for;
she has a son; also on the same day Sophia
Dame with a daughter,”
“Thursday, 16.  A meeting in the morning
and counsel given to all who are ready, to go
on to Grand Island for the winter, others to re-
main."
     On the 20th she writes: “Peregrine put some
projection boards bn to our new wagon.” This
may not seem much of an item to the readers,
but if they had traveled as the saints at that
time did, and felt the inconvenience of narrow,
close wagons where one scarcely seemed to
have air enough to breathe, they would realize
what a luxury six or eight inches more in
width would be for the inmates. “Thursday,
23, Orson Pratt, his wife and children came
over the river and took dinner with us.  Fri-
day, 24, I start for Grand Island, go nearly all
he way on foot, found gooseberries and choke-
cherries.  27, the men have gone to work on
the bridge,” and so they continued until it was
completed.
     On Thursday she says the girls gathered
uantitiesof wild grapes with which-Sister
Sessions made wine.  On the 31st she speaks
of being very lonely, she says, “We are here
almost alone, only three tents,Holman’s, Ever-
ett’s and ours; and she adds, “I want to see the
rest of the company so much that I am quite 
discontented."
     Sister Sessions and family returned to the
camp at Winter Quarters in September, she


ary she had a few friends to celebrate her
birthday, and the afternoon was spent in a very
happy manner in blessing her, etc.  This shows
how the saints could enjoy themselves even un-
der the most trying circumstances and difficul-
ties.  "Sister Eliza called in the evening to in-
vite me to a little party, and when I told her
it was my birthday and wished her to bless me,
she said if I would go to the party they all
would bless me.  After going and attending
one of the sisters who had a child born, I went
to the party and had a good time singing, pray-
ing and speaking in tongues; but before the
party broke up I was called away to attend Sis-
ter Morse and from there to Sister E. A. Whit-
ney's, who was not well.  Friday, 5th, I went
to see Sister Joanna Roundy, she said it was
the last time I would ever see her in this world.
I gave her a message to carry to my children
who had died in their infancy and childhood.
In the evening I went to the party of the 'Sil-
ver Greys,' Sister Eliza went with us.  Sister
Joanna Roundy died this evening.  Saturday,
6th, attended to my household work and made
a quantity of soap.  Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney called
him "a child of promise," in answer to her
prayers to have a son born in the fulness of the
new and everlasting covenant.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
(Continued.)
	The same date Horace wrote, "This evening
Porter arrived, bringing Emmeline’s sisters and
brother,their mother having died on the way.”
	Emmeline, the present editor of the Ex-
ponent, was then the wife of Bishop Whitney,
and her liitle sisters and brother were received
and cared for, as were other members of his
family—being under the charge of Sister Em-
meline and Mother Whitney.
	“Saturday, the 21st.		*	*	This
evening Brothers Egan, Stephens and Gulley
came in from the army.  Brother Egan in-
formed me that they had been to Santa Fee,
and that most of the brethren in the army had
gone from there to California.  These brethren
came back for counsel.” The same day a
number of teams came in from St. Joseph with
goods.
	The next day, Sunday, Brother Woolley ar-
rived.  Meeting was held at the stand.  The
main subject, was the sending off of a lot of
men in the spring, also, a few families, and the
remainder to stay at Winter Quarters.  The
evening of the 24th Horace says: “Brothers
Kimball and Brigham met with two men
(mountaineers) from the Salt Lakes,where they
have been settled for sixteen years.  They
narrated their adventures and gave an account
of the climate, etc , which was quite interest-
ing.”
	The same day in speaking of the weather
he said, “There seems to be a particular dis-
position of Providence in our behalf, for al-
though we have,had several cold, frosty nights
the weather has been remarkably mild for win-
ter, and we have not, as yet, experienced the
first snow storm, as is usual in other coun-
tries." 
	The night of the 24th he speaks of experi-
encing the heaviest frost of the season.
	The next day he wrote: “Most of us, viz.,
Howard Egan, John Davenport, Dan Davis;
Jacob Frazier and myself engaged in cutting
and drawing wood from the bottom close by.
Brother Kimball cautioned the folks this even-
ing against using our wood lavishly, sitting up
late at night and keeping a fire burning, as, he
said, before the winter was out it would be
a very scarce article.” We had previously
learned that the Pottowatomie agent had for-
bid us to cut any more timber on the other
side of the river.  He wrote:
	Friday, the 27th.  This evening Brother E.
Benson got back from the eastern country,
where he has been on business.  I learned that
a brother who went with him, and who had
some pecuniary expectations from some of his
friends, was taken up for insanity, because he
belonged to the “Mormons,” and in order to
cheat him out of his property.”
	“Sunday, the 29th.		*	*	Meeting
was held at the stand, at which it was deter-
mined that every man should immediately turn
out and assist in making the race way, in
order that the mill may be finished speedily.
“Brother Kimball called his family together for
the purpose of giving them good instruc-
tion."
	The 1st of December there came quite a
change in the weather—the wind blowing
from the north.  That day Horace mentions
being at work with some of father’s boys, lay-
ing up the logs to Brother Wallace’s house.  A
day or two later they were engaged in putting
up another house for Sister Miller, how Sister
Finch, whose husband had died a short time
previous.
	On the 7th, Abigail Pond, a wife of Bishop
Whitney’s, died.  Two of her sisters had died
a day or two before.  They had lately arrived
from Nauvoo, and were still living in tents. 
Trading commenced at the store that day.
	“Wednesday, the 9th,” Horace wrote, “warm
day for the season.  This morning, early,
learned that during last night a party of'
Indians came from the other side of the river,
which they crossed on the ice, and attacked a
small party of the Omahaws, who are en-
camped near us, and severely, if not mortally
wounded two or three of their number, viz.,
“Big Head,” the chief of the nation, and his
squaw.  Mary, an Indian interpreter with the
Omahaws, says that it was the Iowas who com-
mitted the outrage.  The Omahaws being very
much frightened, to-day moved their encamp-
ment and pitched their tents near Brigham’s
house on Main Street.  The two invalids were
taken to his house to have their wounds dressed.
“Big Head” was shot through the head and
arm; his wife through the arm only, which is
considerably mutilated, and I understood that
it was the intention to have it amputated.
	On the evening ot the followirig Saturday
the Indians “had a great pow wow among them,
screeching and yelling in a horrible manner,
on account of their having just received the
intelligence that a large number of their war-
riors, who went on the hunting expedition a
short time since, had been killed off by the
Sioux.”
	Sunday, the 13th, being a fine day, meeting
was held at the stand.  Brother Luke Johnson
was present.  He had, just come on—had
buried his wife at St. Joseph.  There was 
quite a rejoicing among the old Kirtland
Saints, to see Bro. Luke Johnson among, them
again.  He stayed one night at father’s house.
His'sister, Marinda Hyde, who was living on
the river, came there with him.
	On the 14th Horace wrote, “Brigham, Heber,
E. Benson, Father Cahoon and Ira Eldredge
went down the river about eight miles to the
place where Sarpee used to trade, to make ar-
rangements for the building of houses for the
Omahaws; that being deemed a proper place
for them to settle themselves—it is so well
fortified by nature, that they can discern the
approach of an enemy at some distance.”
	“Sunday, the 20th,” he says, “meeting was
held at Bro. Kimball’s house. Bro. Joseph
Nobles, the Bishop of this ward, presiding, at
which arrangements were made to relieve the
poor, and for establishing a school, etc.”
	Friday, the 25th, was a most beautiful day,
and being Christmas, at evening we had a lit-
tle party at father’s, which, was very enjoyable
and passed off finely.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

	ALMA WARD, MESA CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Owing to our isolated situation we see but
few communications from this part of the 
country in your valuable paper, hence the
liberty I take in penning a few lines to you,
hoping you will be kind enough to give them
space in your paper.
	We were organized May 31st, 1883, under
the direction of President McDonald, with
Anna Klienman, President; Henrietta Stand-
age and Laureta Staples, Counselors; Sarah
M. Mullens, Secretary; Sophronia A. Standage,
Assistant Secretary; Hannah M. Stewart,
Treasurer. We have thrity-five names en-
rolled, with an average attendance of nineteen.
We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and have
a very good time. The sisters are trying to do
all they can in helping to roll on this great
work; they are ever willing to lend a helping
hand to those that are in want or distress, and
have a desire to do all the good they can, but
owing to the disadvantages and pioneer life of
the people, we have been unable to do as much
as we would like to do. The sisters are trying
to live their religion and serve God. The EX-
PONENT is read in our meetings, with other 
Church works, striving to render them a source
of benefit and mutual improvement.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPONENT,
I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	S. A. S.

	HARRISVILLE. 
	Minutes of a Primary Conference, held at
the east school house, the Primary Association
of West Harrisville meeting with us, com-
mencing at 1 o'clock p.m., Prest. Mary E. 
Taylor presiding. Singing, "In our Lovely
Deseret." Prayer by Bro. L. J. Taylor. Sing-
ing. Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved.
	The President made the opening remarks.
and gave some very good instructions. She
was then followed by the children, with songs,
dialogues, recitations and select reading, which
was very interesting to those who were present
There was a goodly number of the parents
present, who seemed very much pleased with
the exercises of the Primary children. Prest.
Harriet Daybell felt pleased with the children
of the Association; thought they manifested 
great interest in their meetings.
	The speakers were Coun. Wm. Rawson, L.
J. Taylor, T. Brown. N. L. Shurtliff, Jane
Rawson, Lydia Martin, Lovina Hegstead; each
one made some very appropriate remarks, en-
couraging the children in well doing; thought
it a great privilege for the children in these
days to have a meeting where they can be 
taught the principles of the Gospel. It was
also remarked that we should be thankful for
our comfortable homes, when there are so many
out in the world without homes such as we
have. We should live prayerful, and pray for
each other; the Lord will hear your prayers
just as quick as He will your parent's. You
should honor your fathers and mothers and be
kind to every one. There were many other
good instructions given.
	The President said she had been well edified
in listening to the exercises, also the good in-


structions given by our brethren and sisters
that were present, and felt like thanking the
parents for coming out to see us. 
	Adjourned the joint meeting for three
months, to be held at the west school house
Singing, "Lord, dismiss us," etc.  Benediction
by K. D. Brown.  
	ANNIE E. SHURTLIFF, Secretary, 
	MARY ANN TAYLOR, Asst. Sec. 

	SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, February 7th, Coun. B. W. 
Smith presiding.  Opened with singing. 
"Arise, my soul, arise."  Prayer by Coun. E. 
Howard. Singing, "Mid scenes of confusion, 
and creature complaints."  Minutes of last
meeting were read and accepted; also minutes
of P. A. of 21st.  11th.  4th and 5th wards. 
Counselor Smith made opening remarks; said
we want to live near to God, and follow what
Prest. Taylor said—"If we get into a storm, 
round up our shoulders and face it the best 
we can, for it cannot last forever."
	Sister Lula Richards said we all know that
God can inspire us; we want to be obedient
and try and sustain our brethren in their hours
of trial;  said she knew that the prayers of the
Saints availed much; exhorted the sisters to 
teach their children to pray, for their innocent
prayers would do much for this people. 
	Sister Bird expressed her gratitude that she
lived in this day and was numbered among
the Saints, and her desire to be ever faithful 
to the cause of truth. 
	Sister Ann Odell of Ogden, spoke of her
joy in being associated with the sisters; alluded
to her having been President of a Primary As-
sociation for six years, and felt grateful for 
that experience; exhorted the sisters to be 
faithful to God's cause and He would protect 
us to the end. 
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson gave good advice
to mothers in regard to bringing up their
children, and advised them to be wise and
cautious and watchful of what they said, and
pray for our brethren. 
	Sister Lawson bore a faithful testimony and
expressed her gratitude for God's care over the
Saints: Sister Friel also bore her testimony. 
Sister Richards related an anecdote that would
be well to teach the children. 
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said, we are truly liv-
ing in perilous times, and while I feel that the
Lord "doeth all things well," we must fit our-
selves to meet whatever may come to try us. 
We will each be tested that we may prove our-
selves before God.  Made many other good re-
marks. 
	Coun. E. Howard spoke of the word of wis-
dom, and urged the sisters to observe it. 
Thought we should be wise in our conversa-
tion; gave very good instruction to the young
girls in regard to truth and virtue. 
	Sister Smith, Sister Jones and other sisters
spoke a short time, and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.  Singing, "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," etc.  Benediction by Sister
Julia Howe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT: 

	As it has been quite a length [-]f time since
there has been a word from Manti, I thought
I wou[-]d improve the present opportunity of 
writing you a few lines. 
	The Saints, generally, manifest increased de-
sires to go forward in the great and glorious
work in which we are engaged, notwithstand-
ing our enemies are on the alert trying to bring
to naught that which our Father has decreed


He will bring to pass in the day in which we
live.  I often think how true was the saying of
our Divine Master to His disciples, and also
how true it is in our day, that if we were of the
world the world would love us.  But history
repeats itself, and it is the same now as it has 
always been when the Lord has had a people
on the earth.
	I sometimes think that it cannot be that we 
are living in this great and glorious Republic
—the land I have loved so well, the home of
my ancestors for generations past, even to the
earliest settlement of New England.  When I
was a little girl my greates delight was to hear
my grandfathers tell tales of the Revolution,
for they were both engaged in that great strug-
gle for liberty for their land; they also told me
of the great rejoicing throughout the land
when the war was over, for they fondly hoped
to leave the pricelss boon, for which they had
endured so many privations, to their posterity;
but to-day, when I reflect upon the situation of
my country, I feel that we, as mothers and
grandmothers, should tell the story of our
wrongs to our children and granchildren; yes,
let us tell them of our troubles in Missouri and
the sorrows of Nauvoo—how we were forced to
to leave our homes and the beautiful temple
which we had reared under such difficulties, as
only those who were there can realize or under-
stand.  Our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
had been massacred, and that, too, under the
promise of protection of the Governor of
Illinois. 
	We know and realize that the special care of
our Father has been over His people, and we 
have faith in Him for the future, that the
beautiful Zion which the old prophets had so
much pleasure in contemplating will be built
in her beauty and glory, when the oppressors
shall cease to oppress.	R. W.
	Manti, Feb. 21st, 1885.


OLD FOLK'S PARTY AT BLOOMING-
TON.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking a few lines from this part of the
country would prove acceptable, I will give you
a short account of our annual old folk's party,
which was held on the 4th of February; in the
Bloomington schoolhouse. As is usual with
these parties, it proved a decided success. At
2 p.m. seventy-five or eighty persons sat down
to an excellent dinner prepared by members of
the Relief Society under the direct supervision
of our much respected bishop, Wm. Hulme,
and our beloved president, Sarah Greenhalgh.
We were honored on the occasion with the
presence of the Presidency of Stake, Wm. 
Budge and J. H. Hart, also the Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, J. P. Lindsay, Elizabeth 
Collins and L. M. Hart.
	The meeting was opened as usual by singing 
and prayer, then a roll was called of those who
had attained the age of fifty years and up-
wards. Two, I am grieved to say, have de-
parted this life since our last gathering. Min-
utes of previous meeting were then read and
accepted, after which we had a very interesting
programme, consisting of songs, speeches and
dancing, we also had the pleasure of listening
to most interesting and instructive remarks by
the brethren and sisters of Stake Presidency,
also from our veteran brethren and sisters. I
think I should be correct in saying not one left
the house but felt blessed and comforted by the
meeting.
	With best wishes for the success of our pa-
per, I beg leave to subscribe myself, your sis-
ter in the Gospel.
	E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortmant of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!

Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road:

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1885.No. 20


A PRAYER FOR ZION.
Here on this humble mount, my God, to Thee
In humble, fervent prayer we bow the knee
To plead for Zion, bending ’neath the rod
In bondage on Thine own and freedom's sod.

The storm-clouds now doth spread this fair land o’er,
And lightning flash around from shore to shore;
In this dark hour we come, our God and friend,
To Thee, Thou canst with tempests, blessings blend.

We know the gold must be well purified;
We know the tares together Thou wilt bind.
O, give us now Thy Spirit’s strengthening power,
That we may truly stand the trial hour.

Forgive the follies of each passing day,
And help us now to put all sin away,
That nearer we may come, our God, to Thee,
Praying the time is near when Zion shall be free,

Her sons go forth from out the prison wall,
Proclaiming peace and liberty to all,
Bearing glad tidings of the Joys to come,
When all Thy chosen ones are gathered home.

Now for our leaders do we pray to Thee,
Even Thine own anointed, chosen Three
O, may their lives be precious in Thy sight,
For faithful do they stand for Thee and right.

They are tried and proven, even seven times;
They have testified of Thee in many climes:
Now in this hour, O Father, guard them well,
And from ten thousand hearts glad praise shall swell.

For Thine Apostles, messengers of life
To nations withering in sin and strife,
Yearning to save would they but heed the voice
Of truth and in Thy love rejoice.

Their words more precious far than glittering gold,
The hearts they touch not, must indeed be cold,
Where’er, their lot be cast on sea or land,
May they e’er have Thy power and guiding hand.

We pray for all now scorned for Thee and Thine
Appointed laws, most sacred and divine;
Be Thou their help in every time of need,
And with the bread of life Thy children feed.

Oh, may our prayer, O God, to Thee ascend,
And with the voices of the angels blend;
And may “Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done,”
When Christ and all Thy saints shall be as one.
									HOPE.
Tempe, Feb. 24, 1885.


TO THE YOUNG GIRLS.

	I love particularly to address myself to the
young girls, the sweet, fair daughters of Zion.
I wish to ask you, my young sisters, whether
you realize fully the blessings that surround
you and the importance of your mission here
upon the earth.
	Many of you have arrived at the age that
most girls are when they begin to think of
marrying, and many of you, without doubt,
have thought much on this subject, and serious-
ly, too; it is your duty to think about it.
	Marriage is one of the most important steps
a woman has to take in life, and she should
not seek to enter into this covenant without
first seeking the aid of her Heavenly Father
to guide her in her choice of a husband. More
than those of any other people in the world
should the women of Zion seek for the guid-
ance of their Father in this all-important step.
	You are the daughters of those who have
covenanted with the Lord to help to build up
His Church in righteousness, and you are heirs
by right to every privilege the Gospel of Christ
gives to man; and one of the sweetest and most
glorious blessings given us is the privilege we
have of being led by His Holy Spirit in all
that we do.
	We are told by the ancient prophet that at
the time of the coming of the Savior, it would
be with the people as it was in the days of
Noah, they would be marrying and giving
themselves in marriage. Now, the people for
generations have been doing this thing, which
is a sin before the Lord, or the prophet would
not have included it among the sins he names
that men would be committing in the latter
days.
	Then we want to be careful that we do not
give ourselves in marriage, for our Heavenly
Father, you see, forbids us to do this thing.
He is the one who should give His children in
marriage, and He will do this if we seek Him
for this favor.
	We are here to do our Father's work, to
raise up a people for Him especially; then how
necessary that He should dictate us in these
matters, and how necessary it is that we come
before Him and in humility ask His guidance
in this all-important step, the choice of a com-
panion, as well as in every other act of our
lives.
	We are our Father's, and our work is His.
The spirits that are entrusted to our care as
children, are His; they are only given to our
charge for a season; we are entrusted with the
noble mission of giving them bodies that they
may enter the school of experience on this
earth, and as they are wholly our Father's, how
proper and how right it seems that He should
direct through what lineage they should be
born.
	These are trying times for those who are de-
sirous to assist in building up the Church of
God by practicing the heavenly order of mar-
riage, and only those who have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide them will be able to stand
the test. In these times we should draw nigh
unto God with humbleness of heart if we would
have His guidance and protection; when we
know we have His approbation, then in equal
strength can we meet the attacks of the enemy
of righteousness.
	The Lord has called upon all who desire sal-
vation to come out from the midst of Babylon
and withdraw themselves from the ungodly and
the contaminations of the wicked. He com-
manded them to gather to these Rocky Moun-
tains that they might escape the plagues that
would fall upon the wicked and corrupt na-
tions. Another object also He had in view in
bringing His people to this asylum-- it was
that they, untrammeled by the traditions and
evils that envelop the world in a cloud of dark-
ness, might learn of His laws and be taught
His ways. Here they are taught how to purify
their hearts, their minds, and their bodies; the
latter He requires them to make pure that
they may be able to produce tabernacles that
will be fit receptacles for those noble spirits
which are to form a branch that will in
strength and purity be able to cope with Satan
and bear off God's Kingdom in righteousness.
	As I said, my young sisters, you are the
daughters of those who have obeyed this com-
mand to gather to these mountains; those who
have not only covenanted with the Lord to do
His will, but have fulfilled these covenants.
The Lord has now set to work to raise up that
righteous branch spoken of in the Book of
Mormon, therefore He has commanded His
people, and you are destined to become the
mothers of this great race of which I have just
spoken; therefore it is of the utmost importance
that you be guided by the Spirit of God in the
choice of one who shall be the father of the
bodies in which these spirits are tabernacled.
	Satan, anticipating the design of the Al-
mighty in this great work, has sought to frus-
trate these designs--he stalks abroad in the
nations, planting the seeds of evil in every
spot in the soil of human nature that will re-
ceive it; he says to man, "prostitute the woman,
destroy your manhood, seek for gold and riches
out of the earth and invest it in armies and
navies, and raise a carnival of blood and death,
invent infernal machines to hasten the depop-
ulation of the world." And man has listened
to his teachings. To the woman he said, "de-
stroy your offspring, make barren the fruitful-
ness of your womb, that thus coming forth
from the spirit world may cease; lay your vir-
tue at the feet of man and assist him in help-
ing me in this great scheme of mine," which
is to prevent the birth of those mighty spirits
which are to come forth in this dispensation to
enlist in the great struggle between truth and
error.
	Such great power has Satan over the hearts
of the people, that all and more than I have
mentioned of evil has been done. Woman
has destroyed and is destroying her offspring,
even before it is permitted to take its first
breath in this world; she has cast aside her
virtue and prostrated herself before the man;
and he, apparently, has lost sight of the exalt-
ed pillar upon which woman should sit, and he
smiles upon her debasement and descends to
bask in the pleasure of sin with the wanton
and the harlot. The power of Satan has such
possession of his soul that he cares nothing for
posterity, he avoids the responsibility that a
family would bring upon him and is deter-
mined to not marry while woman will yield
to him a satisfaction of the desires with which
Satan fills his heart; he cares nothing for her
honor and integrity, he would much rather
make her a prostitute than make her a wife;
or if he marries her he would rather prevail
upon the wife to prevent the birth of children
than be at the expense of supporting them.
	Has the Lord forgotten His children? Has
He no remedy for this prevailing evil? Will
His pure eyes look upon the degradation of
His daughters by those who boast that they
bear His image, yet have forsaken Him and
are ashamed of His laws and turned from them
and taken sides with him who is the prince of
evil, and not extend to them the hand that is
continually stretched  toward His own? I
think not. Among the sons of men are yet a
few, and they are indeed a very few compared
with the multitude of a nation, from whom a
love of righteousness has not departed, and
who still respect the virtue of woman and
honor the marriage rite by fulfilling the design
of the Almighty in bringing man and woman
upon this earth.
	With these few but tried and faithful ser-
vants He is doing a mighty work in the na-
tions, and through the principles given for
their guidance woman may arise and shake 
herself from the dust and cast off the
chains by which she is bound and stand in
honored equality with man, and by no other
means under heaven can she do it.
	The Lord has given unto these servants of
His a commandment to marry, honor, and pro-


tect those of His daughters who are desirous
to be freed from the bondage of sin, and by
them to raise up a people unto Him who will
fear and serve Him; and these noble women of
Zion who subscribe to these laws are destined
to become the mothers of this mighty and no
ble race; they will be the mothers of rulers,
governors, judges and law-givers, for out of
Zion will go the law-givers and-rulers to-gov
ern the nations.
	The emissaries of Satan have for years been
trying to decoy the women of Zion from this
work; they cry out “shame” to them because
they endure the "degradation” of polygamy,
and try to make them believe there is danger
in it; when persuasion fails they try to force
them from it, they take from them their liber-
ty, they drag them into court and there they
insult them with impunity; they throw their
husband's and sons, those men who are stand-
ing forth in mighty strength in the defense of
the rights of women by marrying them into
jail, and they are so zealous in this heinous la-
bor that they are tearing down the government
to deprive them of the right to do this thing
But will they do it? No; not while woman
values her chastity and desires to lead a pure
life they will never do away with the principle
of plurality of wives. While we remain pure
in our worship the Lord will pr[-]tect us in this
practice and no more will He permit the'cha
tity of women to be trodden down. 
	The time will come when not only will the
name of Joseph Smith be honored and revered
by the women of the nations for establishing
and putting into practice this principle for
their salvation, but also the names of those no-
ble women who were the early advocates of it
and laid aside their traditions and love of the
world to adopt and put it into practice for the
sake of their race and for the rearing of a pep-
ple for God, be had in honored remembrance,
and they will be known throughout all timp as
benefactors of their kind. 
	The time has come when the women of Zion
should live near to their God and depend en-
tirely upon Him for their strength and guid-
ance. Satan is determined that they shall hot
live and act in favor of this work of the Al-
mlghly if he can prevent it, and lie will try
every plan to hinder, them from assisting in
rearing this people of God. It is the glorious
privilege of every woman in Israel to have the
guidance of her Heavenly Father and His
Spirit to strengthen her at all times; with this
sweet comforter she is able to pass through
every earthly trial,and though she may be the
first wife of a man, or a second, or even the
tenth wife,if she knows that God not only sanc-
tions her marriage with that man,but has actu-
ally appointed or chosen him to be her hus-
band, a prison bed cannot seem hard, or the
insolence of courts make her falter, but she
will be able to bear these persecutions bravely,
because she knows that God is her friend and
that she is doing rights                           Mc.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	“I pray God in the name of Jesus that you
all may be kept in the faith unto the end, let
your sufferings be what they may; it is better in
the eyes of the Lord that you should die than
that you should give up the land of Zion, the
inheritance which you have purchased with
your monies; for every man that giveth not up
his inheritance, though he should die, yet when
the Lord shall come he shall stand upon it, and
with Job in his flesh he shall see God.  There-
fore this is my counsel, that you retain your
lands, even unto the uttermost, and seek, re-
dress of your enemies, etc.  And pray to God

[Column 2]
day and night to return you in peace and
safety to the lands of your inheritances.  And
when the judge fails you, appeal unto the
executive; and when the executive fails you,
appeal unto the President; and when the Presi-
dents fails you, and all laws fail you, and all
things else fail you but God above, and you
continue to weary Him with your importun- 
ings, as the poor woman did the unjust judge, 
He will not fail to execute judgment upon
your enemies and to avenge His own elect that
cry unto Him day and night.
	“Behold, He will not fail you!  He will
come with ten thousand of His saints and all
of His adversaries shall be destroyed with the
breath of His lips!  All those who keep their
inheritances, notwithstanding they should be
beaten and driven, shall be likened unto the
wise virgins who took oil in their lamps. But
all those who are unbelieving and fearful will
be likened unto the foolish virgins who took
no oil in their lamps: and when they shall re-
turn and say unto the saints give us of your
lands, behold, there will be no room found for
them.
	“Now hear the prayer of your unworthy
brother in the new and everlasting covenant:  O
my God!  Thou who hast called and chosen a
few, through Thy weak instruments, by com-
mandment, and sent them to Missouri, a place
which Thou didst call Zion, and commanded
Thy servants to consecrate it unto Thyself for
a place of refuge and safety for the gathering
of Thy saints, to be built up a holy city unto
Thyself; and as Thou hast said that no other
place should be appointed like unto this; there-
fore, I ask Thee, in the name of Jesus Christ,
to return Thy people unto their houses, and
their inheritance, to enjoy the fruits of their
labors; that all the waste places may be built
up; that all the enemies of Thy people, who
will not repent and turn unto Thee, be de-
stroyed from off the face of the land; and let
a house be built and established unto Thy
name; and let all the losses that Thy people
have sustained be rewarded unto them, even
more than fourfold, that the herders of Zion
be enlarged forever, and let her be established
no more to be thrown down; and let all Thy
saints when they are scattered like sheep and
are persecuted, flee unto Zion and be estab-
lished in the midst of her, and let her be or-
ganized according to the laws, and let this
prayer ever be recorded before Thy face.  Give
Thy Holy Spirit unto my brethren unto whom
I write; send Thy angels to guard them, and
when they turn their faces toward Zion and
bow before Thee and pray, may their sins never
come up before Thy face, neither have place in
the book of Thy remembrance, and may they
depart from all their iniquities.  Provide food
for them as Thou dost for the raven; provide
clothing for their nakedness, and houses that
they may dwell therein give unto them friends
in abundance, and let their names be recorded
in the Lamb’s Book of Life eternally before
Thy face. Amen.
	“Finally, brethren, the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ be with you all until His coming
and Kingdom. Amen.
	“JOSEPH SMITH, Jun.” 
	The following is an extract from a letter
written from Clay Co., Missouri, Dec. 15, 1833,
by Elder Phelps to the Prophet:
	“The situation of the saints as scattered is
dubious and affords a gloomy prospect.  No
regular order can be enforced nor any usual
discipline kept.  Among the wicked world, yea, 
the most wicked part of it, some commit one
sin and some another, (I speak of the rebel-
lious;for there are saints that are as immovable
as the everlasting hills)  and what can be done?
We are in Clay, Ray, Lafayette, Jackson,Van
Buren Counties, and cannot hear from each
other oftener than we do from you.  I know it
was right that we should be driven out of the

[Column 3]
land of Zion that the rebellious might be sent
away.  But, brethren, if the Lord will, I should
like to know what the honest in heart shall do?
Our clothes are worn out, we want the neces-
saries of life, and shall we lease, buy, or other-
wise obtain land where we are to till that we
may raise enough to eat?  Such is the common
language of the honest, for they want to do
the will of God.
	“I am sensible that we shall not live again
in Zion till God or the President rules out the
mob.		
	“The Governor is willing to restore u[-] but
as the Constitution gives him no power to
guard us when back, we are not willing to go.
The mob swear if we come we shall die!  If
from what has been done in Zion, we, or the
most of us have got to be persecuted from city
to city, from synagogue to synagogue we want
to know it!  for there are among us some that
would rather earn eternal life on such condi-
tions than lose it; but we hope for better things
and shall wait patiently for the word of the
Lord. Our people fare very well, and when
they are discreet little or no persecution is
felt."
	On the 16th of Dec. 1833, the Prophet
Joseph Smith received the following revelation
concerning Zion: “Verily, I say unto you con-
cerning your brethren who have beep afflicted
and persecuted,and cast out of the land of their
inheritance, I, the Lord, have suffered the afflic-
tion to come upon them wherewith they have
been afflicted, in consequence of their trans-
gressions; yet I will own them and they shall
be mine in that day when I shall come to make
up my jewels.  Therefore, they must need be
chastened and tried, even as Abraham, who
was commanded to offer up his only son; for all
those who will not endure chastening, but deny
me, cannot be sanctified.
	“Behold, I say unto you, there were jarrings
and contentions, and envyings, and strife, and
lustful and covetons desires among them; there-
fore by these things they polluted thieir inheri-
tances.  They were slow to hearken unto the
voice of the Lord their God; therefore the Lord
their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers
to answer them in the day of their trouble.  In
the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my
counsel, but in the day of their trouble, of ne-
cessity, they feel after me.	
	“Verily, I say unto you, notwithstariding
their sins my bowels are filled with compassion
toward them.  I will not utterly cast them off,
and in the day of wrath I will remember mer-
cy.  I have sworn and the decree hath gone
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of my indignation in behalf my of people;  and
even as I have said it shall come to pass.  My
indignation is soon to be poured out without
measure upon all nations, and this will I do
when the cup of their iniquity is full.  And in
that day all who are found upon the watch-
tower, or in other words, all my Israel, shall be
saved.  And they that have been scattered
shall be gathered, and all they who have given
their lives for my sake shall be crowned.
	“Therefore let your hearts be comforted con-
cerning Zion, for all flesh is in my hands; be
still, and know that I am God.  Zion shall
riot be moved out of her place, notwithstand-
ing her children are scattered, they shall re-
turn And come to their inheritance, they and
their children, with songs of everlasting joy,
to build up the waste places of Zion; and all
these things that the Prophets might be ful-
filled.


Mary Somerville lived to be ninety-two, and
Caroline Herschel to be ninety eight. Astro-
nomical studies do not seem to impair the 
health of women. May Maria Mitchel live
 o be as old as her illustrious predecessors!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SHELLS OF THE OCEAN. 

Shells of the ocean! beautiful shells!
Homes of the living that easily dwell
In your bright cavities glistening and warm,
Shining like gold, while rainbows adorn
Inside and outside of each little house;
Storms do not enter though often aroused.

Shells of the ocean! how varied in hue
That the bright waves bring forth to our view;
Many in form: each species distinct,
Still with each other there's always a link.
Tiniest, brightest, and largest together,
Lineth the beach like some fairy favor.
						EMILY B. SPENCER.


"DON'T YOU GLORY IN THE POST-
MAN'S KNOCK?"

The postman! Oh, the postman!
Name that long has blest the world,
Carrying hopes, and fears, and sorrows,
	Carrying scrolls to be unfurled;

Carrying secrets dear and sacred,
	Carrying whisper'd love and joy,
And alas, some 'whelming sorrow
Crushing in its base alloy.

"Men of letters" surely are ye
Bearing white-winged doves to all,
You are truly sent to bless us - 
Welcome, welcome is your "call."

Yes, I bless you, "men of letters,"
Knowing you are sent to bless,
I know none that are your betters
In relieving deep distress.

In bestowing daily pleasure,
	In dispensing joy below
In this nether world of ours,
	On your way rejoicing go.

Money is a meagre tribute
For the labors you dispense,
Heart-felt thanks we offer to you,
	Gratitude your recompense.

Yes, we bless you, "men of letters,"
For the healthy joy you bring;
We know none who are your betters
For the sunshine which you fling.

O'er the mother who in absence
Yearns to hear "about" her son-
For the token love dispenses
Through you to the treasured one.

Public benefactors are ye,
	True as needle to the pole.
Blessings on ye, "men of letters,"
Noble is your daily role.
						HANNAH T. KING.
March 7th, 1885.


[Column 1]
	HOME. 

	Home is the nursery of innocence and con-
tentment. All hearts beat in unison, and
contentment prevails. Father and mother are
happily mated, enjoying each other's pleasures
and sharing each other's sorrows. Both enjoy
the society of their children; they are pleased
and happy to see any improvement in their 
education, from baby Allie up to sturdy John. 
When father is away all miss him and are
anxiously awaiting his return. Hear the ex-
clamations of joy when the announcement is 
made, "Papa has come home!" or more com-
monly, "Here is papa!" All are anxious to 
greet him first and tell him every little inci-
dent that has happened during his absence. 
All these manifestations show in what degree
of love and respect he is held in his own home. 
So it is when mamma is away and returned, and
also with each of the children. Happy is the
home when all of its members are thus situat-
ted. 
	How we should strive to make home the
most pleasant place in the world; where per-

[Column 2]
fect confidence reigns; where all may come and
tell their joys and make known their sorrows, 
being sure to receive the sympathy and advice
so much needed in our journey through life.
	Fathers, talk to your wives and children; let 
them know you are their friend. Mothers, 
make your children your confidents, so they 
will, in return, make you theirs. Children, 
confide in your parents; take heed to their ad-
vice, for truer friends you will never find; no 
one will ever be more interested in your wel-
fare than they are. Honor, respect and love
them; thank God your Heavenly Father that
you were permitted to have such noble parent-
age as you have. 
	Men and women are worthy to be called of 
God in this day, to help to establish His king-
dom upon the earth for the last time; men and
women of much integrity to boldly stand forth, 
amid all the oppression and persecution, and
serve God in helping to establish the principles
of life and salvation where wickedness and sin
have so long held sway. Respect yourselves, 
as sons and daughters of God, born in the holy 
Priesthood, with power given to you to go forth
and proclaim the glad tidings of great joy to 
all the nations of the earth. Be willing instru-
ments in the hands of God in bringing the pure
in heart to a knowledge of the Gospel. You
should all rejoice in this knowledge. The more
persecution and opposition you receive the 
stronger your faith should be in the divinity
of the Gospel. 
	Home is the starting point for every man and 
woman on the earth. There we are born, learn
to walk, talk, then to take cognizance of things
near around, and then, as our abilities grow 
stronger, we learn to do small things, then sent
to school to learn the fundamental rules for 
forming an education as we journey through 
life, etc., etc. 
	Children are just like small plants springing
from the ground; the more they are cultivated
and kept in the proper shape the straighter 
and more useful they will become. They are 
pliable, while young, just like the plant, hence
the necessity of early training and strict obe-
dience to parents. "As the twig is bent, so will 
the tree grow."
	Home should be made a place so desirable
that the children will be contented and their
minds employed in something useful, or at ease. 
Music in a home has a great attraction for
children, as well as older people. It is an ele-
vating element of education; it draws out the
mind, softens the heart and gives loftier de-
sires to all. It seems to place us as near to 
heaven as anything earthly can. It is inspir-
ing in its nature, when it is of an elevated kind. 
It has a great tendency to cheer and soothe our 
souls; it makes us contented with our lot in life; 
it is comforting at all times and heavenly in 
its nature, hence it should be cultivated in the
homes of the Saints. When we go to church
on the Sabbath day and hear the solemn hymn, 
the heavenly tones of the organ, the many and 
sweet voices of the singers, how they thrill our
hearts—bring such contentment to our souls, as 
nothing else can, and prepare our hearts and 
minds for the inspired words of God, as they
fall from the lips of those who are appointed 
to feed the soul on this holy day. 
	Our home, or the home where we are raised
is very apt to be a model of the homes of our
children, and for this reason we should wish
our homes to be pleasant and agreeable. Pa-
rents, in the ideas of their children, are per-
fect. This is the court of justice to which they 
bring their difficulties to be settled. It is not 
a trifling thing to decide in justice to all. Wis-
dom and consideration should be used in such 
decisions, and thus early plant the principles
of right and justice in their minds. Solomon
said, "Train a child in the way it should go, 
and it will not depart from it."

[Column 3]
This is a model of our Mormon homes in 
Utah. This is the doctrine I have been 
taught from my earliest recollection. I was 
born and raised in Utah of Mormon parentage. 
I know but little of the world outside of our 
Church. I know the Saints are sincere in their 
religion, and will serve God rather than man, 
come weal or come woe. Our trust is in Him
whom we serve. 
	D. E. DUDLEY. 
Clifton, Idaho, Feb. 14th, 1885.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY. 

	On Wednesday, January 14th, a very pleas-
ant time was spent at the Aurora meeting
house. At 10 a.m. a number of the brethren
and sisters gathered, the sisters to spread the
tables and the brethren to assist in arranging
the seats; etc. 
	At 1 p.m. the brethren and sisters, to the
number of about one hundred and fifty, were
seated at the tables, which were loaded with
the good things of the earth. 
	Everything was just ready when our be-
loved President of the Relief Society, Sister
Lucinda Curtis, made her appearance, suppos-
ing she was coming to a Relief Society meet-
ing. When she entered the door she was so 
overcome by the sight that without the aid of 
her counselors, who were waiting at the door 
for her, she would have been unable to take
the seat prepared for her at the head of one of 
the tables, where her children and grandchild-
ren were seated. 
	Sister Lucinda was presented with a number
of presents from the Society during the day, 
it being her fifty-fourth birthday.
	After dinner the children engaged in the
dance for a short time, and in the evening
there was a dance for the adults. During the
evening there were songs and recitations, be-
sides appropriate remarks. 
	At the close of the party Sister Curtis ex-
pressed her thanks to the sisters of the Society 
for the honor conferred upon her, as she did
not consider herself worthy of so much atten-
tion, etc. 
	Ever wishing success to the EXPONENT, we
remain, 
	Your sisters in the Gospel, 
	HARRIET CURTIS, 
	LAURA HOLDAWAY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Blanche Willis Howard is said to have late-
ly dramatized her novel "Guenn." She is now
writing another. 

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is highly complimen-
tented by the New Orleans Picayune. It says: 
"She is the gracious and gentle woman, the
mother of a family, the woman whose life has
been dedicated to noble works, to the protec-
tion of home, the advancement and improve-
ment of her sex."
	
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is anxious to make
as complete a collection as possible of books
and pamphlets written by women for the New 
Orleans Exposition. She invites authors and
publishers throughout the country to send her
without delay, any contributions of women's 
literary work which they can make. 
	
	Dr. Sara Craig, of the class of '84, Michi-
gan University, now house physician in the 
Woman's Hospital at Detroit, is making an 
enviable reputation in that institution. Health
Officer Wight and other prominent physicians
speak in the highest terms of her sanitary im-
provements, urging other institutions of like
nature to adopt her system.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15,  1885


[Column 1]
	THE NEW ADMINISTRATION.

	The event that ushered in the Democratic
President is now passed; the nation awaited it
with anxious expectancy, many fearing that
after all there would be disturbance or disap-
pointment, but neither transpired, and Presi-
dent Cleveland was duly inagurated on the 4th
of March, and is now installed at the White
House with all due ceremony and state. What
sort of  administration it will be is yet to be
proven. The Democratic party are fully confident
that the government of this great nation will
be safe in his hands, that he is wise, judicious
and clever, and the wheels of state will soon
roll evenly along, and the country grow more
prosperous under the new administration.
	It may be so, and one cannot help hoping
against hope, that the Democrats are right in
their calculations, but the unsettled condition
of all nations at the present time certainly tends
to weaken confidence in the validity of any one
government, however propitious the outward
seeming may appear. There was no rejoicing
here on the day of the election, notwithstaning
the rumors circulating around to the effect that
there was quite a hurrah among the "Mormons,"
everybody seemed quite equal to the momentous
occasion and went on with their work as though
it was an every day affair.
	The republican party, much as they despise
the Democratic principles, are quite exultant
because President Cleveland mentioned in his
message to the people of these United States
that polygamy should be repressed. Let them
rejoice, the Saints can well afford it; they are
not looking for favors from either party, and
therefore cannot be greatly disappointed. It was
without any help or aid from the United States
government that the "Mormons" planted the
flag of their country in the vales of the Rocky
Mountains; they drove their own teams, made
their own roads and bridges, and pioneered their
own way through with poverty and privation
staring them in the face.
	They have made these mountain fastnesses
habitable, and the stranger, whether Jew or
Gentile, has been entertained within their gates.
Presuming upon the freedom extended to all, of
whatever creed or nationality, wicked and de-
signing men have sought to establish themselves
in the midst of an innocent and unoffending
people, and have, by political chicanery and in-
trigue, made a stepping stone of honest citizens
to lift themselves to place and power. The du-
plicity and cunning of these office seekers who
have gained a temporary advantage over the
upright and diligent laborer is too thin to cover
their wicked designs, and it cannot much longer
be hidden; but the people of Utah can afford to
wait, positive of the result that will follow. And
notwithstanding all the dark clouds that now
obscure the horizon and cast their gloomy

[Column 2]
shadows over these peaceful and happy vales,
making the situation appear melancholy and
forbidding at the present time, it will only be of
short duration, for so sure as there is a God in
heaven, He will make manifest His power in
the deliverance of His people from the snares
that are now laid to eatrap them, and Israel will
be freed from bondage and the clouds will roll
by and be lost in thin air, and the people will
rejoice and the waste places will continue to
grow fertile and Zion will extend her borders,
and her strength will increase, and no power on
earth can hinder its development.
	The nations of the earth are already strug-
gling with difficulties that will eventually bring
still more serious trouble, and the United States
government will, undoubtedly, yet be glad to call
upon the Rocky Mountain boys to come to its
assistance, and will be proud of those brave and
honest young men whom the masses of the
people now professedly despise.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE managers of the Deseret Hospital wish
to express their gratitude to S. P. Teasdel Esq.,
the genial and gentlemanly proprietor of the
Eagle House in this city, for a pair of handsome
lace curtains and thirty-three yards of carpet,
donated to that institution. Possibly there are
others who may follow this good example, re-
membering that the liberal man deviseth liberal
things and by his liberality he shall live, and
also "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord."
	WE attended the Relief Society Conference in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, March 12th,
Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding, aided by her
Counselor, H. C. Brown. On the stand were
Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith, Coun. Middleton, of
Weber Stake, and several Bishops and Presi-
dents of the branches of Relief Society in that
county. There was a good attendance, and the
reports from the several wards were good, show-
ing each society to be in a flourishing condition.
The address of Sister Eliza in the morning was
something to be remembered, both for the excel-
lent instruction it contained and the powerful
manner in which it was delivered. Minutes of
the Conference will appear in our next.
	ON Saturday, March 7th, a number of ladies,
intimate friends of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, met
at her residence in the 13th Ward, it being the
anniversary of the lady's birthday. The time
was spent in social converse, supper being an-
nounced at six p.m., when the guests repaired
to the residence of Apostle H. J. Grant, where a
sumptuous repast had been prepared for the oc-
casion. The table was handsomely set out, and
the viands were delicious. Mrs. Lucy Grant,
the amiable hostess, and her sisters, Mrs. Julia
Woolley, with Miss Maggies Ivins assisting,
waited upon the ladies in the most charming
manner, and everyone seemed to thoroughly en-
joy themselves. About ten o'clock the party
broke up. Many good wishes were expressed
for the lady, who is a great favorite with her
friends. May she live to enjoy many more
years of prosperity and happiness.
	ON Tuesday evenings, March 10th, we had the
pleasure of attending, by invitation, the Young
Ladies' Meeting in the 20th Ward, Mrs. Lula
Greene Richards presiding; her Counselors, Mrs.
Annie G. Sharp and Mrs. Elizabeth Stayner
were also present. After singing prayer was of-
fered by Elder Wm. Willis. Then singing again.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and ap-
proved, after which the roll was called by the
secretary, and many of the young ladies re-
sponded with a proverb or passage from Scrip-
ture, which was quite interesting. The pro-
gramme, which had been prepared for the even-

[Column 2]
ing consisted of songs, organ solo, readings and
recitations, all well rendered by the members.
Afterwards the meeting was addressed by Sisters
M. I. Horne, E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and
L. G. Richards. Coun. E. Stayner then asked
the young ladies who had kept the resolution
given at the last meeting to rise up; quite a
large number responded. President Richards
proposed as all had not kept it to have the same
resolution for the next meeting, which was de-
cided upon. The resolution was to be punctual
at the hour of meeting. Programme for next
meeting was read and meeting adjourned, and
after singing the benediction was pronounced by
Miss Celia Sharp.
	AT three o'clock on Monday, March 9th, a
group of ladies met at the residence of Apostle
Wilford Woodruff in honor of his wife, Sister
Phebe C. Woodruff, who, on the 8th of March,
attained to the age of 78 years. Sister Woodruff
had recently resigned her position as President
of the teachers of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, and the officers and members of that or-
ganization, wishing to recognize their apprecia-
tion of her valuable services, while she had
officiated in that capacity, tendered to her this
surprise, and presented her with a large and ele-
gant album. The afternoon was spent in the
most happy manner in social conversation and
remarks from several of the ladies including
Sister Woodruff herself, and her venerable sis-
ter, Sister Foss, who is now eighty-four years
old; Sister Woodruff is now seventy-eight and
bears her honors well. She is a new England
woman, from the State of Maine, one of the old
Puritan stock that "wears well", and may live
many more years. We ardently hope she may
live until she is satisfied with life and has filled
her mission here, and is prepared to enter into
the fulness of rest prepared for the faithful
Saints of God.


BORN AGAIN.

	We learn from our Savior's remarks to Nico-
demus, upon the importance of baptism. As
written, John iii; 6-7, Jesus said to him, "That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the spirit is spirit." 7th verse:
"Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be
born again."
	Looking at the subject in the true sense of the
word, how readily we can understand the reason
that the human family, in their natural state,
cannot comprehend the designs and purposes of
our Great Law-giver, the Savior of the world.
We can understand what tender care an infant
must have who has been born into this world—
without this care its faculties could not be
properly developed; but with it how soon you
see the fruits of your labor. Even while it is
fed upon milk it is susceptible of joy and sorrow.
At an early date it will laugh; and is always
ready to cry if hurt in the least. But with love
and tender care it will grow like a thrifty plant,
and eventually become like a sturdy oak of the
forest.
	Now, if that which is born of the flesh can
arrive at the perfection of manhood in so short 
a time, what might that which is born of spirit
do, providing it had the same tender care. I
often think this life seems to be a school. Our
Father sent us here:  we knew nothing when we
arrived. Our first lessons were gained from ob-
servation, and lovingly we were taught to lisp
the name of our parents, until we could not bear
to let them leave us, save as our attention was
taken by some other object. This shows how
ready we are to learn our lessons from objects,
and especially those that gratify and please the 
eye.
	We soon learn that we are surrounded by two


nfluences or teachers.  Now, since that which
is born of the flesh is flesh, and that born of the
spirit is spirit, what will be the result?  Well,
since all are born of the flesh, this being accom-
plished, what is the next lesson.  One teacher
tells us this is a fallen world and there are many
dangers to meet.  The wisest course to pursue
is to listen to those who by age and experience
have become acquanted with its dangerous pit-
falls and calamities.  We tremble to learn this.
The other teacher says this is a delightful world,
and the best thing is to enjoy it and throw aside
all fear.  This is quite pleasant news, and per-
haps we summon up the courage to try it.  Well,
now we learn our lessons by experience--it is not
necessary to tell how.  One class of society learn 
that to be truly happy you must be truly good.
This will lift and qualify you to fill places of 
trust, both in this world and the next, for our
term of school will soon close, and our Father
will call us home to give an account of how we
have improved and what advantage we have
gained while a sojourner here.
     We are also told that there has been a teacher
here, even the Son of God, who left rules, which,
if we live by them, will save us from ruin and
disgrace, and prepare us to come again into our
Father's presence.
     The other teacher says these rules are the
most dangerous of all, because He became a 
sacrifice for sin, and He requires all who listen
to Him to make sacrifices also.  Yes, to those
who love the world, and cannot get enough of
this world's goods, it would be a great sacrifice
to love their neighbors as themselves, "and do
good to those who hate, and to pray for those
who dispitefully use and persecute you."  No,
they could not do it, because it is only those
who are born of water and the spirit who can
have faith in these words.
     The question arises:  Now, after being born of
water and the spirit, how can we nourish and
cherish, or in other words, develop this spirit
until we are perfected by its influence?  The
Savior said:  "If ye keep my words as I have
kept my Father's words, ye shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ."
     St. John says, in his first epistle, iii; 20[-]30,
"Beloved:  now we are the sons of God, and it
doth not yet appear what we shall be; but we
know that when He shall appear we shall be 
like Him, for we shall see Him as He is; and
every man that hath this hope in him purifieth
himself, even as He is pure."
     How thankful we should be that the Lord has
again sent a prophet to prepare His way before
Him, even as John the Baptist was sent to pre-
pare His way the first time He made His ap-
pearance upon this earth.  But in His tender
mercy He sent again to show us that no one did
see or know what we were in the sight of God
our Father.  Truly we had the written word of
God, but who understood it, or kept His laws
perfectly, as they must be kept, to be ready to
meet the Savior when He comes again to earth?
Yes, there must and will be such a people, for
Jesus said, "My sheep know my voice and will
follow me."  The Lord said unto Moses, Leviti-
cus xix; 2, "Speak unto all the congregation of 
the children of Israel, and say unto them: ye
shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am
holy."  And Peter says in His first epistle, i;
15-16, "But as He which has called you is holy
in all manner of conversation, because it is
written, be ye holy, for I am holy."  And the
savior says, Matthew v; 48, "Be ye perfect,
even as your Father which is in heaven is per-
fect."
     Do you ask why all those sayings?  Remem-
ber St. John's epistle shows:  if ye are not holy
as He is holy and perfect, ye will not be like

[column 2]
Him, for no one can enjoy His glory without
possessing His perfections and holiness.
     This is the object and aim of our people, as
taught us by the prophet, yet we are called to
make sacrifices from time to time.  This proves
what spirit we cultivate, for we cannot serve
two masters; in trying to do this how many
stumble and fall.  The Savior said, Matthew
vi; 24, "No man can serve two masters: for
either he will hate the one and love the other;
or else he will hold to the one and despise the
other.  Ye cannot serve God and mammon."
Those are the words of the Son of God.  Our
Father sent them to be taught to all who would
listen and obey.  A free will offering to all.
None are compelled to come, for the Savior and
our Father, too, knows full well that those who
will not come to learn of them to-day will even-
tually, either in this world or the next, if they
do not commit the unpardonable sin, see their
error and come and be saved by the plan of re-
demption.  Jesus says after the destroyer has
killed the body this is all that he can do.  He
has no power to lead astray any longer.
     Is it not then most beneficial to study and
practice the rules our Father sent us to live by?
They are as essential as the four fundamental
rules of arithmetic, which, if we know, we can
solve all the problems in the book by the four
fundamental rules.  The same are the rules of
life given by the Savior--they will enable us to 
solve the mystery of godliness.
     Besides this He gives His Spirit to such,
which is the true riches; or the love with which
He loved the world.  The same love with which 
a mother loves her infant child--I mean a good
mother; for all are not good.  Some think it too
much of a task to be taxed with such a burden.
Such cannot know the height and depth of true
affection.
     These are our lessons; but the world say that
Mormon religion is only a farce, gotten up by
Joseph Smith to lead the people astray.  I would
ask, when will the world wake up to reason and
sound sense?
     I would here add, that with this spirit (which
our Savior taught Nicademus that he must pos-
sess before he was fit for the kingdom) we can
even live in plural marriage; because we feel a
confidence in our associates that they cultivate
its pure principles, and are saying to the tempt-
er, "Get behind me, Satan, for I am living for
true principles, as taugth by Jesus our Savior."
With this spirit it is not the same thing at all
which it would be without; with this spirit we
are truly happy under all circumstances, know-
ing this term of school is short at best, and we
are determined to do our best while we sojourn
here.  We feel the smile of an alwise Providence
rests upon us, and we shall hear Him say, "Well
done good and faithful servant," etc.  But let
the tempter come in and listen to him for an
hour and you are filled with hatred and disgust,
and sometimes with revenge, and ask, "Is this
the bottomless pit?"  If there is such a place.
If there is I think we make it when we do not
obey the God of heaven.  By doing this we 
learn the good and the evil, as our mother Eve
designed we should.  The evil is always appar-
ent; let us, then learn something of the good
before we are called home to give an account of
how we spent our time upon this earth.  Do
not be like the boy who, upon being asked what
he was doing in school, replied, "I wait for school
to be out.
     Look at those whose education and refine-
ment taught them to ignore the laws of God as
given in the Garden of Eden, because it brought
them on a level with the animals.  To-day the 
French nation will give a reward to those
who raise families.  Did not God our Father
foresee all this, and much more which will

[column 3]
come to pass in the own due time of the Lord?
I do not think our Government could afford to
give permiums to those who raise families here,
should they feel inclined to do so.  I motion
they give them to those parents who take par-
ticular pains to teach their children purity of
heart, uprightness, integrity and truth.  When
this is taugth, both by precept and example,
there is an effect produced which will show itself
either in this world or the next, for we must live
for both.
     Let us then be of that number who, when his
Lord cometh, shall be found watching, is the
prayer of 
Your sister in the Gospel,
MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
Feb. 22, 1885.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

     The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Feb. 21st, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horn presiding. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion," etc. Prayer by Coun. S. M. Kimball.
Singing, "Come, come ye Saints," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and accepted.
Minutes of Y. L. of the 4th and 20th wards, and
P. A. of the 21st, 4th, 5th, 15th, 11th, and 3rd 
wards were read.
     Prest. Horne spoke of the reports, and thought
that seeing so many present was an indication
that there was a desire among the people to do
right. Said the Saints were passing through
peculiar circumstances at present, and it was
good that the Saints could meet and worship
God and enjoy His Holy Spirit; and continued:
“For many years we have received counsel to
avoid trading with our enemies; I regret that we
have not always obeyed this wise counsel, for
we can now see that we have been preparing a
whip for our own backs. We should ask our-
selves, are we living our religion and keeping
God's commandments as we should do? We
want to be firm, for the time will come when
we will have to stand on our own faith.” Made
other good remarks, and spoke affectionately of
Sister Eliza, who then addressed the congrega-
tion.
     Sister E. R. S. S., after expressing her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters once more, gave a
brief account of the way in  which she had pas-
sed the winter, and encouraged the sisters to be
prayerful and faithful in the performance of
every duty and God would overrule everything
for the good of the true Latter-day Saint. His
Saints are dear to Him, and He will care for
them. "I feel proud of those brethren who are
imprisoned for the sake of their religion, for
they have shown themselves to be true and
brave. The principle of plural marriage is as
sacred to-day as ever it was, and I am proud of
those who have courage enough to obey it. If
we are such a people as God loves we will not
shrink or cower if every nation should rise up
against us; for He loves the noble and brave
and the righteous.” She then related a dream
concerning the ship of Zion, and earnestly ex-
horted the sisters to be firm and faithful, and
closed by praying God to bless all who desired
to do right.
     Sister E. S. Taylor made some preliminary
remarks, thought our persecutions were doing
us good and waking us up to a better sense of
our duty. Thought the Lord had a purpose in
permitting these trials to come upon His Saints,
and may we each be able to say, "Thy will be
done,"  is my prayer.
     Coun. S. M. Kimbal and Coun. B. W. Smith,
each mad a few remarks, expressing their ap-
preciation of the meeting and their desire to do
right, and Prest. Horne made a few closing re-


marks, and related a dream she had several
years ago, which foretold the Saints would have
persecution if they lived faithful.
	Sister Ellen C. Glawson gave notice of the of-
ficers meeting of the Primary Association, and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Now let us rejoice,"  etc.  Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant.
	
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Room, Saturday, Marth 7th, at 2 p.m., Mrs. M
Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing, "The time
is nigh," etc.  Prayer by Mrs. Hannah T. King
Singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, my
King"  Minutes of previous meeting read and
adopted.  Minutes of the Y. L.  from the 10th, 20th,
19th 17th, and of the P. A. from the 6th, 15th, 
12th, 10th, 11th, 16th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, said
she had a note from Sister Hines, who was
prayed for in our last meeting; she says she re-
ceived immediate relief, and wishes to thank us
for it.  "It is a great privilege to be instrumen-
tal in healing the sick. Thought our prayers
would avail much if we were as good as we
knew how to be; was thankful that there was
an awakening among the Saints to a sense of
their duty.  "The Lord is pleased with us when
we meet together and speak of his goodness and
try to sustain each other in our trials and afflic
tions. Let us recollect the incidents of Brother
Burton's trial some years ago, in which the
hand of the Lord was so plainly manifest."
Prest Horne then expressed a desire to have the
sisters bear their testimony, and felt they would
have a good time together. 
	Mrs. H. T. King endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Horne, and spoke of prayer meetings,
thought they would be a great benefit to the
Saints; referred to the blessings arising from
prayer.
	Mrs. Watmough bore a strong testimony, and
exhorted the sisters to be faithful.
	Sisters Norman, Fowler and several others
bore faithful testimonies. Prest. Horne made
aa few closing remarks and gave notice of the 
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, which would be held Friday,
March 21st, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. at that place;
also of the Primary Conference, March 22nd, at
10 a.m., and the Y. L. M. I. A. the same after-
noon at 2 p.m.  Singing, Doxology.  Benedic-
tion by Coun. S. M. Kimball.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TWO FAMILIES
	First, the Patriarchal father returns home
from work, or a long absence, and finds his
family well, happy and glad to meet him; he is
also happy, receiving their kind welcomings
home.  Now we will see them at the dinner
table-mothers father and children all surround-
ing the table with smilling faces;  he willingly
acknowledging the claims of all alike and
providing for each one equally, and loving each
child with the same fatherly love.  What harm
is there in this?
	Now think of a Gentile family, such as I have
positively known.  Think first of a bright home
of a newly married couple.  Two or three years
of happiness, love and enjoyment pass away;
a loving wife, always trusting in her husband's
love and faithfulness to her, always believing
and trusting every word that her husband
speaks, disdaining the very thoughts of any-
thing distrustful of him.  Time wears on.  Now
there comes troubles and trials one after another.
First he is absent in the evenings.  She waits
long for him.  Many lonely hours are spent
waiting for him.  When he returns and is asked,


"Why are you so late?" he answer, "Nothing
at all, dear, but I was detained on business"
	Time [---] passed on.  She still believes his
words to be true.  Night after night it is the
same until she gets weary of waiting in vain;
when suddenly it is whispered round of suspi-
cions that something was not right T[---]
reaches her ear.  She cannot; she will not be-
lieve her husband is false, until sorrow, remorse
and shame enters her home.  Finally the door
ball is rung; a young lady enters bearing a child
in her arms, and asking for mercy and shelter,
claiming this man, her husband, as the child's
father. Then the wife that has been so loving,
so kind and so good falls back in despair and
grief, her heart overflowing until she can con-
tain it no longer.  She calls to her husband to
find out the truth and he must acknowledge
his wrong. There is a broken-hearted wife, a
disgraced maiden and a desolate home.
     Looking at the two pictures, one keeping the
law of God as Abraham, Isaac and Jacob did,
the other transgressing all law, and plunging a
trusting wife and unsuspecting maiden into ut-
terdespair, himself a disgrace to allmanhood,
and percahnce the cause of[--]untimely death
to one [---] of those whose hearts [--]
broken [---]


[Column 1]
LAW—WHAT IS LAW AND WHAT
IS IT FOR?

	Law is a code of statutes drawn up and com-
piled judiciously and harmoniously to discrimi-
nate between good and evil, right and wrong;
to punish an offender if he or she has done
wrong, or committed an evil deed.  It was
never intended to wreak its vengeance on a
peacable citizen, who is pursuing a straight-
forward course, attending to his daily avoca-
tions of life, no disturber of the peace, temper-
ate, honest, upright in his dealings, and one
who is working for the public good, and re-
spected by his friends.  Has such a one no
right to dwell peacabley in his own dwelling by
his own fireside?  No right to walk abroad to
attend to the duties that devolve upon him to
maintain and support his family?  Was law
made to dog his footsteps to watch his home
and thrust him into prison?  Has the judici-
ary a right to enact such a law, and send men,
biased in their minds, to administer it, and that,
too, from a distance?  Are they competent to
judge of matters they have had no associa-
tion with, who seek not the welfare of their 
fellow creature, who judges not his merits, or
cares for his worth in the advancement of pub-
lic good? 
	All this his neighbor knows, and has to see
him shackled, and his usefulness brought to a
standstill, because his enemy, a "great-mighty-
republican-dollar-man, has a little authority
invested in him to transact business away from
home—one short month and then his career
comes to an end and he sinks into insignifi-
cance. 
	If this is republicanism I never want its as-
sociations, neither do I want to come in con-
tact with its unjust laws.  My progenitors
made good and wholesome laws, which said
that Congress should make no law to control
our religious rights.  Now these republican
men come here to Utah and dare to tell her en-
lightened people that if they believe what is in
the Bible they cannot have the right of fran-
chise; if our name is registered, if we are ever
so moral, virtuous, and good citizens, and if we
were born in America, and all our ancestors
before us, if we believe the word of God, they
shall not let us have any rights to their law—
one-sided only to condemn—which they have
made expressly for the poor ignorant, cast-off,
brow-beaten believers in the eternal truths,
written for our edification and salvation, which

[Column 2]
we have had the stamina to investigate, and
came out from the dogmas that are now extant
in the civilized world.
	"Now, if you Mormons will be infidels, as
we are, believe in a God that can't see what
you do, and mystify what the true and living
God has said about His servants, the prophets
and His apostles, and the Savior of the world,
then you can be justified by our Republican
law."
	This is Scripture; for all the law is fulfilled
in one word, even in this:  "Thou shalt love
thy neighbor as thyself."  I do not think these
holy (?) men would like to have the same
treatment as they are dealing out to us, if so
let some one go into their homes with a little
galvanized law in their pockets and pick and
pry into their family secrets and accuse them
of crime and call their children bastards.
	We want a local government.  Utah has
wise men, tried and proven.  We solicit no 
distant usurper to set us to rights, by bringing
us into bandage.  We are free born as well as
themselves, and will contend for our rights and
justice.  We have political and religious rights,
and we have been sustained in them by our
own local officers;we do not want men from
abroad to mind our business; we have been
taught to mind it ourselves, and we are quite
competent.  I should think if this people
kne how to locate a great Territory like this,
which has opened up so large an inland traffic,
bringing in resources to the government from
lands that would have lain dormant, and also
mineral wealth, they certainly are competent
of manipulating their own governmental af-
fairs.  Uncle Sam ought to be thankful to this
people, for no other people under the sun would
have settled here;  neither could we if we had
not been sustained and preserved by the out-
stretched arm of the Almighty, and He will
continue His preserving care until His king-
dom is established for ever, and He reigns tri-
umphantly.
	A great hue and cry is raised about bigamy
and polygamy away out here in Utah—a term
I never heard used until the Gentile courts set
here to try such cases.  I consider when a man
marries a wife she is his rightful and lawful
wife.  They twain become one flesh; if he
marries more than one they all  become his
own flesh and blood, and their offspring are
legitimate.  The marriage ceremony is the
same.  They enter into a solemn contract and
are under obligations to each other.
	The Latter-day Saints marry for time and 
all eternity, and that, too, by divine authority
from God;  He commanded them to do so; to
raise up a righteous seed unto Himself.  He
had spirits in reserve to enter tabernacles,
whose parents had not defiled themselves, who
had kept themselves from all others.  Such
are the men that have entered into this order
of marriage, and such are the women.  A small
percentage of the men of this Church have a 
plurality of wives, and they are those, many of
them, who were married men, who had never
cohabited with any other women but their own
lawful wives, virtuous, upright and honorable
to the very letter, and up to the present time
they would have clung to one wife only, had
they not know it was a divine command.
They acted under a religious conviction, and
had to stem the tide of civilized usage and
custom, which they could never have had the
courage to do without that knowledge that 
comes to God's people by revelation.
	There is a great responsibility resting upon
those who enter this order of marriage; they
must lead holy lives, be prayerful and circum-
spect, set good examples before their offspring
that they may become good, honorable men
and women, that they may walk in that
straight and narrow path that leads to eternal 
life, "For broad is the path that leads to des-


truction, and many there be that go in there-
at."
The monogamists of this community are
virtuous men; they cohabit with no other
women but their own wedded wives; but if they
believe what is written in the Bible about
Abraham and the Patriarchs having more
wives than one, they cannot set as jurors or
hold public office.  But God the Eternal
Father will appoint them judges to judge this
nation of their ungodly deeds, even as He ap-
pointed His servants the former day saints, to
judge.  I Cor. vi 2-3 "Do ye not know that
 the Saints shall judge the world, and if the 
world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy
to judge the smallest matter?"
"Know ye not that we shall judge angels?
how much more things that pertain to this
life?"
     So, you see that judges will be chosen from
the Lord's people, and not from those who
work iniquity.
     St. Luke xi; 52.  "Woe, unto you lawyers!
for ye have taken away the key of knowledge:
ye enetered not in yourselves, and them that
were netering in ye hindered."
     And in that day  they will begin to say,
"Have we not tried to bring to justice these
Latter-day Saints for breaking man-made
laws?  Have we not laid them under heavy bonds
and cast them into prison?  Have we not done
good to the community at large by making a 
stagnation of business? Inasmuch as we were
paid by Government and nothing came out of
our own pockets, we felt to do Uncle Same a 
great favor by spending a few thousand dol-
lars out of the treasury; if we let this people
alone they will become powerful in the land;
their industry must be checked; they are too
progressive, and they have a tendency to stand
at the head and lead out, by clinging to their
country and its laws; they are addicted to Bible
research and no others can confute the, they
believe all that is written therein is for learn-
ing and profit, which we cannot believe nor
countenance; they believe in its literal fulfill-
ment; which we spiritualize; they believe in the
true and living God, that can speak now as
formally, and we do here declare that he has
neither body, parts, nor passions, therefore, He
cannot hear nor speak, and yet He is one per-
son, the Father, Son and Holy Ghost.  Now,
this strange and outlandish people have dared
to differ from us and all other sects and people
throughout Christendom, and we will punish
them for it, as we did the prophets before them.
Mary Ann Merrill Pratt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. S., Y. L. M.  I.  A. & P. A. REPORTS

	BLUFF CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few lines from Bluff City
would not come amiss, we take pleasure in
writing that our Relief Society is trying to
keep along evenly with the rest of the branches
of the Relief Society as near as possible un-
der the circumstances, with a good spirit and
feeling at heart. 	
	We hold our testimony and teacher's meet-
ing once a month, and our working meetings
once in two weeks. We are few in number
but our meetings are well attended and our
desire is to do all the good we can in helping
to build up the Kingdom of God in this far
off land.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome visitor
to us, and is highly appreciated here; we also
have other Church works that are read with
interest.
	We have had a very pleasant winter, and
the health of the people is very good. There
has been no sickness nor death, for which we

[Column 2]
feel very thankful, and realize as a great bless-
ing. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion,
we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel, 
	JANE M. WALTON, President,
	IRENE HASKELL, Secretary.

	UTAH STAKE PRIMARY.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the business meet-
ing and conference of Primary Association of
Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Feb. 26th,
1885:
	The officers by invitation convened in the
4th Ward Society House at 10 o’clock a.m,
Prest. Annie K. Smoot presiding. Singing,
“Lord; we come before Thee now,”etc.; Prayer
by Sister Harriet Goodman; Singing, "I'll
praise my Maker while  I've breath" Roll
called and 22 wards and districts responded.
The financial report of the stake was then
read.
	Mrs. Annie K. Smoot was happy to meet
with so many of the sisters; made some very in-
structive and interesting remarks.
	Verbal reports were given by the officers of
the different associations.	 
	Prest. Louie Felt from Salt Lake City being
present gave some good counsel, and encour-
aged the sisters in the good work in which they
were engaged.
	Meeting was then adjourned until half past
one p.m. Benediction by Sister Sarah Roberts.
We then partook of lunch, which was provid-
ed by the officers of Provo. 
	Meeting adjourned to the Provo Tabernacle
for conference, Prest. Annie K. Smoot presid-
ing. Singing by the children, "A happy band
of children;" Prayer by Prest. David John;
Singing, "Am I a soldier of the cross." Prest.
John then put the names of the stake officers
before the meeting and they were voted in as
follows: Annie K. Smoot, President; Eliza-
beth Taylor and Sarah E. Cluff, Counselors;
Mary Stewart, Secretary; Grace Smith, Asst.
Sec.; Delia Maeser, Treasurer.	
	Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Programme was carried out with
songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., by the chil-
dren.
	Prest. Louie Felt made some very good re-
marks; told the children to try and learn some-
thing new every day. Closed by asking God
to bless all.
	Counselors E. Taylor and S. E. Cluff ex-
pressed their pleasure in meeting with Primary
Associations.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot thought the time
had been well spent; endorsed the remarks of
the sisters; prayed God to bless all the children
and all those interested in the Primary Asso-
ciations.
	Meeting adjourned for six months; Singing,
"Good night Chrous;" Benediction by Sister
Mary Duke.
	MARY STEWART, Sec.,
	GRACE SMITH, Asst. Sec.

	MORGAN STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Morgan Stake of Zion convened at
the South Morgan school house Jan. 21st,1885,
Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding. Service commenced
by singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, etc.;"
prayer by  Mrs. Ann Fry; singing, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation.” Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted, also
statistical and financial reports of the eight or
nine branches of Morgan Stake, which showed
that the good sisters of Morgan have not slack-
ened in their efforts to do good and provide
for the wants of the needy.
	Coun. Martha Tonks spoke of the duties of
the R. S., and the necessity of all being con-
stantly on their guard les[-] they be overcome by
temptation. Admonished mothers to be punc-

[Column 3]
tual in sending their children to their meet-
ings.
	Mrs. Susannah Heiner, Prest of Y. L. M. I.
A., and Mrs. H. M. Thackeray bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel and made some ex-
cellent remarks.
	Morning session closed by singing “Praise to
the man, etc.', Benediction by Prest. Sarah
Florence.	
	At 2 p.m. the conference again convened.
Opened by singing, "Great God attend while
Zion sings;" prayer by Prest. Fannie Taggar:;
singing, “May we who know the joyful sound.”
Prests. of branches then gave verbal reports of
their societies, after which Prest. W. G. Smith
made some very interesting and encouraging
remarks; spoke of the great blessings the Lord
has to bestow upon His saints if they will only
prepare themselves to receive them, he thought
the Lord was now blessing us all He could con-
sistently.
	Prest. Rich said she was much pleased with
the remarks made, and also the reports given.
Said there were many very good faithful sisters
here in this stake who are always at their
meetings, she always saw them when visiting
the branches and they were always on hand to
do all the good they could; she felt that the
Lord would bless and reward them for their
faithfulness. Urged the sisters to diligence
and punctuality in attending meetings and
other duties. Said it seems as though the
Lord blesses and multiplies the little means
donated to the Relief Society and they always
have somethiug to do good with, and so it will
always be if we are faithful. She felt to re-
member and sympathize with her sisters who
are so much tried in consequence of the per-
secutions of our enemies. Exhorted her sisters
to sustain each other and the Priesthood, teach
their children the principles of the Gospel, and
be saints at the fireside as well as elsewhere. 
	Mrs. Harriet Welsh, Prest. of Primary,made
some interesting remarks upon the duties of
wives and mothers, and the necessity of being
faithful; urged the sisters to send their children
to Primary meetings; said the associations were
organized to assist mothers in bringing up their
children.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith said that although there
had been great improvements made by the sec-
taries in getting up their statistical and finan-
cial reports, there was still room for improve-
ment, and thought it very important to have
them correct. Said this life is a school in
which we may learn by our own and each
others’exper[-]ence; bore testimony to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged, and
urged the sisters not to be discouraged in well-
doing but continue faithful to the end.
	Choir sang "Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing” Conference adjourned for three months.
benediction by Coun. M. A. Simmons. 

	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held in the meeting
house. Provo City, February 27th, 1885, Presi-
dent Mary John presiding. Counselors Rhodo
Lyman and Emily G. Cluff were present, alsa
Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Lucy W. Kimball.
Opened with singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, and also statisti-
cal and financial reports of the county.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith the first speaker, said
she was pleased to behold the faces of the sis-
ters of Utah County; was interested in hearing
the reports. The labors of the sisters are as-
tonishing. and the amount of money they han-
dle. We are persecuted, but we are not
alarmed; we have been through persecution be-
fore; we are used to it. There is no justice for
us. Satan is trying to destroy the government
of God from off the earth; he knows his time
is short. We are in a school, being educated 
for the presence of the Lord. We need to ex-


amine ourselves, to see if we are obeying all
the commands of God.  If we wish to be
crowned we must be faithful.  I had rather
my life would be taken than deny one princi-
ple of our faith.  I feel to bless you, for you
are blessed.
  After singing, and benediction by Sister Ly-
man, conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
  Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer.
  Sister Emily G. Cluff made a few remarks,
and was followed by Sister L. W. Kimball,
who said she would much rather listen than
speak, but felt to respond to every call.  If we
did not know that God was at the helm we
would feel discouraged.  I feel the loss of our
beloved president, Ma Smoot, her genial smile,
her kiss of welcome.  But the Lord is just as
able to endow Sister John, and she has borne
the burden alone for a long time.  I pray the
Lord to bless each and every one with His
Spirit.
  Sisters Tanner and Bringhurst followed with
remarks appropriate for the occasion, and they
were followed by Mother Duke, saying, it is a
pleasure, my sisters, to behold your faces once
more; my soul rejoices.  Spoke of attending
the young people's conference; said the Lord
was working with them.  Reviewed our posi-
tion at Nauvoo, of the grief of the saints at
the death of the Prophet and Patriarch; of our
being driven from our homes, but said we
were in the hands of our Father; they can only
kill the body.  This may be the last time that
I shall meet with you, but if so, all is right. I
am in the hands of Father.
 Sister Snow Smith said, When we arise to
speak we need not say we feel weak, it is nat-
ural; we should not boast of our strength.
These Societies will be glorious.  We stand as
helpmeets to the Priesthood.  What sort of
people should we be?  At the head of all wo-
mankind; it is enough to humble us to the
earth.  I feel as though I wanted to bow at
the feet of the Savior.  I feel to mourn over a
sister that goes astray, and I ask God to shield
me from every spirit except the Spirit of God.
The hand of the Lord is apparent in these per-
secutions and He will overrule them for our
good; our greatest trials often become our
greatest blessings.  Let us pray without ceas-
ing, we can lift up our hearts to Him in prayer
while at work.  We want to educate our chil-
dren spiritually, mentally and morally, that
they may become men and women of God, etc.
  Sister Lyman made a few remarks, then Br.
John said, I can truly say that I have been
pleased with the remarks of our aged sisters.
Said we should never cease to learn, but keep
on progressing.  Let us keep our covenants.
We do not know how long the Lord will suffer
this cloud to hang over us; but there is light
beyond the clouds.  The city of Enoch was
composed of those of one heart and mind, and
we cannot be like them until we are more uni-
ted.  The devil is raging because we are trying
to build up the kingdom of God.  Be firm; we
will not give up one principle of our faith. We
are in the hands of our Father.
  Choir sang, "How firm a foundation, ye
saints of the Lord."  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Benediction by Prest.
David John.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.'


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
RICHMOND, Feb. 10, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
    Many times have I resolved on writing a few
lines about our Relief Soriety, but as procras-
tination is the thief of time so it has been
my bane in this regard.  Not because we have
no regard for our valuable paper, in which are
so many good things, all tending to the one


great object, as helps to build up the kingdom,
manifestatious of God’s goodness to His people,
strengtheners of our faith in His holy com-
mandments, knowing, learning that when He
says as thy day thy strength shall be, ’tis not
said in vain; every day, nay, every hour, He
shews forth to His people, if they will lean on
Him in the hour of distress, He is there, and
that for to bless, comfort and cheer. The
communications we read in our paper all tend
to make our hearts glad, knowing that our
God is no respecter of persons, but all who
will learn of His ways and walk in His paths
shall partake of His loving care.
	I will relate one circumstance of my life:
Soon after I joined the Church in England, be-
ing the only one of my family that had joined,
afterwards my aunt and mother yielded obedi-
ence to the truth, I was the only girl of a fam-
ily of boys, who were very much put out at
my joining the Latter-day Saints.  Polygamy
was not taught then.  I heard that it was to
be taught the next week, it was a great shock
to me, for I felt it was opposed to my feelings
and how could I face my brothers at such a
time. The members of the Church talked to
me,but 'twas to no purpose; they at last told me
to ask the Lord and He would give me a tes-
timony.  Very earnestly I prayed that if the
doctrine was true He would convince me of it,
for I could not fight within and without.  In
two hours from that time the knowledge was
given to me that it was true.  That was over
thirty years ago, I have never doubted that
principle, but came to Zion and lived in it,and
had my varied experience; ’twas true then, ’tis
still true, and God will fight our battles if we
live near unto Him.  He has promised that
He will make the wrath of man to praise His
holy name; the rest He will restrain.
	Let us lift up our hearts  continually in
prayer that God will hasten the time when
righteousness shall reign and wickedness cease.
God bless all Israel.
	Yours truly in the covenant,
					B M. B.
P. S. Our Relief Society as a whole is
doing well.  Our president and her aids strive
to co-operate together for the best good of the
whole, if any suffer it is because they do not
make their wants known.  Our reports were
considered satisfactory.  We are having rather
dull times here; cash very scarce, but we are
striving for our course, to be upward and on-
ward.


﻿On Tuesday, Feb. 24th, the chair laid before
the United States Senate a memorial from the
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association
praying that Congress may take steps to pro-
hibit the disfranchisement of citizens of the
United States on account of sex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Fremont, Piute Co., Utah, Augusta L. Tay-
lor, dughter of James A. and Lousia Taylor, Feb. 10,
1885, aged six years, six months and fifteen days. At a 
meeting of the Fremont Primary Association the fol-
lowing resolutions of respect were adopted:
	Whereas, by an irrevocable decree of an alwise provi-
dence, our worthy young sister, Augusta L., has been
taken from our midst,
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family
and friends, in the loss of their dear one, not, however,
without the consoling reflection that she will come
forth in the morning of the first resurrection. 
	Resolved, That this be made a matter of record in the
Primary Association, and a copy be presented to the
parents of deceased, and also sent to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT for publication. 
	And, whereas she was always a willing and active 
member of our Association, we, the members of the
same, feel to make and accept these resolutions of re-
spect and condolence.
				MARGARET J. TAYLOR, President,
				SARAH A. ALDER, Secretary.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868
Z.C.M.I
﻿SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENS WARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,  
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND FEWEST DESIGNS. 
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
-----------------------------------------
Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
				    in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses', and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116,118 East Temple Street.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS’ Prices, by
					MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road:
------------------------------------------------------------------
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address, David James 806 Salt Lake City.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1885.			No. 1885.


[Column 1]
GIVE US JUDGMENT, O LORD!

[LINES, SUGGESTED BY CHRIST’S COUNSEL TO THE LEPER.]

"Wisdom is justified of her children.”—JESUS

Shut off from the world by a fearful disease,
From refinement and friends, from enjoyment and ease;
Lo! a poor loathsome leper, his wretchedness brought
TS the gracious Physician (by multitudes sought)
And implored His compassion, with suppliant mien,
“Lord, I know if thou wilt, that thou canst make me
 clean.” 

And He, who was humble enough "to fulfill
All righteousness,"answered the pleader, " I will."
Oh! blest transformation, miraculous sight!
In an instant the leper was purified quite:
“Made whole ev'ry whit," and by gratitude bound
To publish his cure in the regions around.

But Christ, never eager to add to His fame,
To blazon His deeds, or to trumpet His name,
Strictly cautioned him, “Tell it to no man, but go,
And as Moses commanded, an offering bestow
For thy cleansing, and thus thou a witness shalt be
To the priests of a miracle wrought upon thee."

Was Jesus ashamed of the good He had wrought,
Or cared He so much what the Pharisees thought?
Or was it a crime to bestow strength and health;
A blessing  greater than all the world's wealth?
Wherefore wish a beneficient act to be hidden 
Like something unlawful, unwise and forbidden?

Was Jesus afraid? Can we even suppose
Christ stood for one moment in awe of His foes?
He knew that His Father could instantly send
Countless legions of angles His Son to defend;
But He chose not to ask Him, and taught us,"Tis
well
To avoid much display and to weigh what we tell.

Surrounded by spies, Jesus guarded His speech;
Oft in parables spoke, and endeavored to teach
Truths exalting and deep, in so simple a way,
That the Gospel of goodness the meek might obey,
But with language that glow’d like a torrent of fire,
He silenced the scorners who kindled His ire

Christ reproved their conceit and their covetous ways,
Whoso broaden’d phylacteries courted men's praise:
Who censured in others the tiniest flaw,	
And neglected the weightiest points of the law;
Selfish priests, pompous hypocrites, else had they ne'er
Dared to make a thieve's den of the temple of prayer.

Alas! for a people so blest and so blind,
Who were looking and waiting a monarch to find,
Who thought that their King should have enter’d in
	state,
And shown Himself truly Messiah the Great!
"He came to His own," but they scorn'd to endure
The presence and precepts of one so obscure.

With proof upon proff of an era divine,
The Pharisees tauntingly call'd for a sign;
Blam’d Beelzebub, even, for all that Christ done,
And counted Him only “the carpenter,s son"
Yet with all, Jesus stem’d envy’s turbulent tide
From the hour of his birth to the day that He died.

The pious elite, the select “uppcr ten,"
Look’d down from their height on the Savior of men; 
But their jealousy sensed and it nourished their spleen,
That a wonderful man was the strange Nazarene;
Still they questioned, while hating him all, that they
	could,
“Can there comdont of Nazareth ought that is good?”

“The Kingdom of Heaven comes without observation.”
A Christ couldn't please a perverse generation,
Or force them to welcome the dawning of light,
Whose deeds were all evil, befitting the night;
“If a prophet had risen, indeed, from the dead
Such a people would ne'er have believed what he said."
[Column 2]
And wherefore should Jesus from bondage redeem
Such an Israel, and crown them with glory supreme?
Why wrest from the Romans, a bigoted brood,
Or exalt the self-righteous who thirsted for blood?
Not for this came the Christ, at so fearful a cost,
But to seek and to ransom the humble and lost.

Oh! merciful Christ; for humanity's sade-
If no reputation Thyself didst Thou make,
Or seek for applause, or a recompense ask,
So holy Thy alms and so hard was Thy task
The highest on earth, yea, a God in disguise: 
“Prince of Peace" Thou wert humble, and patent and 
	wise.

Lord! we fain would remember Thine own it behooves
To “be wise e'en as serpents, and harmless as doves.”
Though 'tis needful to suffer for righteousness' sake,
May we needlessly never an enemy make;
Give us judgment, O Lord! make us wise as obedient, 
For prudence is power and 'tis often expedient.
					EMILY H. WOOD MANSEE.
S. L. City.


EPISODE 1.
THE GIRL—HER SERlOUS MEDITATION ON
	HER APPROACHING BIRTHDAY.

	This is the last Wednesday I shall ever see,
in my fifteenth year! Four days more will
make me sixteen! How swift time flies! Twelve
months have rolled round since I last saw this
day, and it seems, as it, were, but yesterday;
every day, nay, every hour and minute brings
us nearer to our latter end.  A few years more,
and I shall have passed the meridian of life; 
every appearance of youth will then be for-
ever fled, if it should please heaven to spare
me to that time. There is something very
solemn,to me,in seeing or doing a thing for the
last time! I shall never see this day again, but as
I grow in years, and The cares arid troubles of
this life come upon me, may heaven grant that
I may grow in grace; may I be enabled to do
my duty in every station of life in which it
shall please God to place me; may I do my duty
to my dear father and mother, and also to him
who seems destined as the companion of my
life. If voluntarily and deliberately I choose
to make him such,I am bound by the strongest
ties do fulfill so sacred am engagement; may
God in His infinite mercy assist me in this
most essential part of my duty. In adversity
and affliction may I look up to my Heavenly
Father for comfort and support; and in pros-
perity may I never forget my duty. To be
virtuous is my heart’s desire. "May God, who
knows my heart, grant that I may be so; may
I be willing and even desirous to leave this
 world when God, in His infinite goodness,
 shall see fit to call me, may I be prepared to
quit this world, that I may meet death with-
out fear or amazement; may I be admitted in-
to that heavenly kingdom, where only the vir-
tuous can be admitted, there to dwell forever
in blest eternity. Make me, O Lord, to know
Thy will, and guard me from the road to ill.
Teach me Thy ways, and grant that I may 
never on myself rely, nor think my wisdom
will suffice to guard me through this world of
vice. No, let me ever, ever pray for Thy pro-
 tection night and day.


EPISODE 2.
THE WOMAN REVIEWS AND JUDGES THE GIRL.

Girl I bless thee! as I gaze upon the features 
which thy miniature presents to me the fifteen

﻿
summers had revolved above thee; I feel to
draw a pen picture of thy early days, for sure-
ly they were not the days of common child-
hood; thy spirit was born mirthful, playful,
gay, yet thoughtful, pensive often sad, the ef-
fect of organization and temperament; over thy
early youth hung a dark cloud, arising from a
too precocious mind, that fed too much upon
its own vitality, and in a too secluded life; none
knew those mental trials—you trembled lest
any one should discover them; they were entire-
ly between thyself and thy Father, God. How
often hast thou risen in the silent watches of
the night to pray that the dark cloud might be
lifted off thy soul, that faith and hope and the
light of heaven might beam upon thee. Strange
a very child should be so tried, and all so Silent-
ly; that life, present and future, should appear
a blank! She felt happiness was not for her,
yet how she yearned for that which she felt to
be her native element, and feeling herself so
capable of enjoying it, but she decided in her
childish code that she would strive to be good,
and would do her best; that she might have
peace. Strange decision for a girl with just her
thirteen years.
	Never ceasing time rolled on. Months, years
passed; Womanhood,Wifehood,Motherhood,yet
through all brooded still that dark and heavy
shadow. Prayers seemed of no avail, yet still
she never ceased to pray, but with a differ-
ence.
	Years rolled on, and then silently, almost
impreceptibly, this cloud was gradually lifted,
and silently, almost impreceptibly, peace and
happiness grew upon her; the morbid feelings
seemed to evaporate,and she realized an exceed-
ing great reward was given to her, and then
the knowledge came that the hand of God
had been upon her for good, that He
held her firmly, but yet gently and lov-
ingly, giving her strength to decide as did
holy Job, ‘’Though He slay me, yet will
I put my trust in Him.” The woman, in
this her hour of judgment, asks herself, “Has
the mature life done justice to the girl? Again
she looks upon the silent miniature and solilo-
quizes: Girl, I bless thee! The woman blesses
thees gazing on thy painted image with its
fifteen summers now before her. 

She feels almost thou art her peer, 
She feels below the promise of her youth; 
Forty long years, and great experience,
She can in judgment sit upon her youthful type,
Call in the witnesses and justly weigh
The being now beneath her scrutiny;
And memory rises up and shows how 
Good, and pure, and honorable thou wert,
With just thy fifteen summers o’er thy head
No craven In thy soul wert thou, 
But high horn in thy heart and Brain;
And though so long beneath that heavy cloud,
And though thy prayers appear’d as though unheard,
Through all the scenes that should be sunny youth,
	Thy soul still served by waiting for thy Lord;
And looking back at this late period
The woman knows fall well that God was there,
Preparing thee in His high school for that
Momentous time when He would call, and thou
In meekness should respond, Father, “lo, I come”
To be enrolled with Saints of Latter-days,
And be a member in the First born's Church.

	May the child be mother to the woman
	 March 16 1885.			JUSTITIA..


Queen Victoria expected to leave Windsor
for Germany on the 30th of last month and
remain on the continent three weeks.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.)

	My husband wrote:  "Saturday, 26th. This
being mother's birthday, father this afternoon
procured his large glass, which has been in the
family for years, and each one of the family
was called upon to give some sentiment or wish
in favor of our mother.  The "union" or meet-
ing did not last above an hour, but it was the
most satisfactory festival that I ever recollect
to have spent in that brief space of time."
	The circumstance above mentioned is very
fresh in my memory, as is also the following, 
which transpired on the evening of January
1st, 1847:
	"This evening Bro. Kimball again gave up
his room for the purpose of dancing.  Brigham
and some of his family were present, beside a
numerous assemblage of brethren and sisters. 
This evening, like the Christmas one, passed off
finely under the direction of O. P. Rockwell, 
and every one departed to their homes about
one a.m., apparently well pleased and gratified
with our scene of festivity."
	Sunday the 3rd.  By invitation my father
went and preached at Bro. John Scott's house, 
in Bishop Evan's ward, a number of his family
attending. 
	On the 5th Horace, Wm. and Porter started
on horse-back for the rush bottoms, in com-
pany with three other brethren who were going
with wagons to Bro. Lathrop's camp (who was
there to take charge of the cattle that were sent
to the rush bottoms) with provisions.  Our
boys went for the purpose of driving back some
beef cattle - cows and calves, etc., but the weath-
er was so excessively cold that they conclud-
ed to return without them.  
	Horace says: "The only house there, we
stayed in, which was a miserable hovel indeed, 
our bones the next morning feeling the effects
of the unevenness of the puncheon floor. *
Having breakfasted as we had supped the
night before, in the open air, we started for
home, where we arrived towards evening."
	By this time there was considerable snow on
the ground, and "Thursday, 7th,' wrote Horace, 
"was by far the coldest and most snow of the
season.  We could chop wood at the door
scarcely five minutes without freezing."
	He wrote on the 13th, "This evening had
quite a convivial party at Bro. James
Smithies', consisting of all the male members
of the family."- Meaning my father's family. 
	Monday, the 18th, he speaks of making out
a "list of the members intending to travel in
the 2nd company, under H. C. Kimball, in the
ensuing spring.  John Pack and myself went
round to warn them to meet at the Council
House to-morrow night for organization.  The
first company, under Brigham Young, meet
there this evening for the same purpose, This
evening a fire was discovered under the hearth
in Bro. Kimball's room - we took down the
better half of the chimney in order to get at
the fire, which we  put out and then rebuilt the
chimney, this taking till half past four in the
morning.  Brother Kimball felt very thankful
that the fire did not occur in the night when
we were all asleep, as there were five or six
pounds of powder in a chest near the fireplace, 
in addition to the danger incurred by the fire
otherwise. 
	"Thursday, 19th. * * This even-
ing, pursuant to agreement, a large number of
those who had attached themselves to the sec-
ond company under H. C. Kimball, met at the
Council House on Main St. Bro. O. Pratt
first rose and read the names of those who had
already given in their names, which were 200
in number.  Bro. Kimball then arose and said
that he had not called them together exactly

[Column 2]
for the purpose of organization, but to give
them some instruction, and to let them know
by what rules they must abide if they wished
to go in his company.  He then proceeded to
state that those who wished to go with him
must prepare themselves to obey the laws of
God, and forbear from stealing one from an-
other, also swearing and other things prohibited
by the Celestial Law, and those who could not
make up their minds to abide by the precepts, 
had better never start from this place, but go
into Missouri where they belong. 
	"A revelation on the will of the Lord was
then read by O. Pratt, as received through
Prest. Young, pertaining to the rules and reg-
ulations by which we are to be governed during
our journey in the ensuing spring.  There are
to be companies of tens, fifties and hundreds, 
each company with a captain at its head, and
these to be controlled by a president and two 
counselors. 
	"The revelation embodied or contained the
remarks made by Bro. Kimball and the others.  
A vote was then called whether the people
would covenant to obey the precepts therein
laid down, which passed unanimously.  Prest. 
Young also made some few remarks substan-
tiating what Bro. Kimball had said.  Another
thing spoken of was that every individual who
went on the journey should to the utmost use
his influence in assisting the widows and wives
of those in the army, also to remove, lest their
cries should ascend up to Jehovah against us. 
After some other business of minor importance
being transacted the meeting was dismissed
with a benediction by Bro. Kimball."
	"Wednesday, the 20th.  Fair weather with
"sunshine clear."  The Twelve held a council
at Wm. Kimball's room to-day."  Thursday
he speaks of being busied in taking the names
and list of the property of those who had at-
tached themselves to Bro. Kimball's company."
And for two or three days after he was en-
gaged "writing on the list of company 2nd."
On the 23rd he makes mention of his wife's
sickness, which prevented him from attending
meeting at the Council House.


LETTER FROM A GENTILE.

MRS. WELLS:
     I take several papers, but none that I read
with more interest than the EXPONENT. I am
watching with great interest your people strug-
gling for existence, surrounded by enemies as
they are, and what the result will be I cannot
yet tell; but my opinion is that riches and self-
ishness will be the greatest enemies your peo-
ple will have to contend with. This was the
great moral disease that Jesus Christ found in
the world and prescribed for; and so long as
your people follow His directions closely and
attentively they will live and grow and prosper;
but when riches, pride and selfishness grow up
among you, then you will have only a form of
godliness without its power, as the religious
orders of this country, and the spirit of the
world in all of them and the spirit of Christ
not found in them.
     Your system of plural marriage I regard as
one of the great and God-given remedies for
the evils of the world, and to elevate woman
to her proper sphere, and give her a chance to
love and be loved by some good and worthy
man; the sum total of life's pleasures, the fruit
of existence, the great natural balm for the
troubles of life. No great revolution was ever
accomplished in the world without great effort
and opposition from the ignorance and preju-
dice of the world.
    Fight along, you are right, and I glory in
the spirit manifested by the people. If this
should be of any interest to your readers you
are at liberty to give it to them. 
					JOHN M. RUSSEL.


Y. L. M. I. A. ANNUAL MEETING.

     An annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Sister Julia Howe, Friday, Feb. 20th, 1885.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, E. S. Taylor, Nellie
Colebrook, H. T. King and other visitors were
present. The President of the Association,
Sister Julia Howe, presided over the meeting.
After the usual opening exercises were over an
interesting report for the year ending Feb. 20,
1885, was ready by the secretary. A short and
varied programme was then rendered, which
was listened to with interest.
     Sister Howe stated the object of the meet-
ing, which was the election of officers, at the
same time tendering her resignation as Prest.
of the association. This resignation was not
accepted.
     A motion was then made and put to the
members of the effect that Sister Howe be re-
tained as President of the Association. The
motion was unanimously carried by the uplift-
ed hands and smiling faces of the members,
showing that their hearts went with their votes.
The other officers also remaining the same, the
association now stands with Sister Julia Howe
as President, Sisters Emily Richards and Sadie
Howe as Counselors, Ella Dallas as Secretary,
Vickie Clayton as Assistant Secretary and
Lizzie Barnes as Treasurer and Librarian.
      The meeting was then addressed by the visit-
ors, and much good advice, instruction and
encouragement was imparted to the members
and to all who listened.
    Sister Eliza gladdened the hearts of all by
her presence and with the words of counsel
which she gave, commending all that was
praiseworthy, and giving suggestions, in her
characteristic way, on points where the Associa-
tion was deficient. She particularly stated
that she had yet to be converted to the idea of
annual reorganizations. Stated that she had
also to be converted to the idea of adjourning
the Associations during the summer season;
thought that where these plans were adopted 
they would prove a great drawback to the As-
sociation.
     All felt to ask God to bless Sister Eliza and
grant every desire of her heart. All the
speakers felt to congratulate Sister Howe for
the love and esteem in which she is held by the
young people with whom she is associated.
    One item that was broached by a number of
the speakers, and that should be particularly
mentioned, and that is, that we should not
patronize our enemies in any way. This was
afterwards put before the meeting in the form
of a resolve, and was unanimously adopted.
     After the closing exercises the company ad-
journed to the dining room, where a bounteous
repast was spread, of which all partook with
enjoyment; the many good things, with which
the tables were laden, being well seasoned with
pleasant conversation.
     The evening was spent in social chat and in-
terchange of thought. All passed off well,
and everybody went home feeling in good
spirits and benefited by partaking of the good
things, spiritual and temporal, that were freely
given to them. All felt to say that it is good
to mingle where all are of one heart and on
spirit.
ELLA DALLAS, Secretary.


Emily Pfeiffer of London, who visited Salt
Lake City with her husband last October, has,
in the March number of the Contemporary
Review, an article upon Woman Suffrage, said
to be an exceedingly able argument in its favor.
The lady is a very graceful and popular writer,
and her articles in prose and poetry are very
highly complimented by members of Parlia-
ment. She was a friend of the late George
Elliot and of George Henry Lewis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PARAPHRASE OF THE TWENTY-
		THIRD PSALM.

	FOR THE PRIMARIES.
My Lord!  my glorious Shepherd--King!
	My wants He doth supply--
In pastures green He laid me down,
	Where gentle streams ran by.

He bindeth up my wounded soul,
	He guides my wandering feet,
In paths of righteousness He leads
	To happiness complete.

Yea, though death's shadow oft has bowed
My shrinking soul to ill,
Into his valley dark and drear,
Yet Oh! no evil will I fear,
For thou art with me still;
Thy rod I hold, Thy staff I grasp,
And they shall comfort me.

A table in the wilderness
	For me has oft been spread,
Where I, with loving guests, have sat,
	And all been richly fed.

Yes, truly this has often been
	In presence of my foes--
My head Thou hast anointed, too,
	My cup--it overflows! 

Surely Thy goodness and Thy love
	Shall tend me all my days,
And in the house of God I'll dwell
	With everlasting praise.
					HANNAH T. KING.
	March 25th, 1885.


AN ADDRESS TO THE LADIES'
		 CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
	There are so many at the present time that
take an interest in Utah. So much has been
written and said  about us as a people, it almost
seems superflous to write or say any thing more;
in fact we are become as a city set on a hill
that cannot be hid; and we can, no longer be
called the isolated Mormons.  And if those
who make it their business to write and talk
about us would only do so with a spirit devoid
of prejudice and a desire to investigate our
principles and speak of them truthfully, we
would court such investigation and they would
know us better as a people, for our desire is to
let our light so shine before men that they, see-
ing our good works, may cease to traduce, and
perchance find something that even the would-
be-reformers of the age may consider worthy
of praise and imitation.
	But instead of an impartial investigation of
our principles, we are continually maligned
and misrepresented, and our rights are taken
from us.  At one time the cry is, the poor, de-
luded, suffering women of Utah; let us set them
free and they will gladly leave husband, broth-
er and father and come to us, no matter how
steeped in vice we may be; no matter if we are
drunkards or gamblers or how impure our lives;
they are ready to break asunder every tie that
binds them and come to us, if they can only es-
cape from the thraldom which binds them to
their oppressors.
	Civilization came into our midst and women
have plenty of opportunities to leave the ranks
of Mormonism and embrace the Sectarian re-
ligionsof the day; but unfortunately for this
grand scheme the women of the Church of
Latter-day Saints are, for the most part, pretty
well informed as to the merits of the different
religions of the day, for have they not, many
of them, come from their midst, and they are
well acquainted with the workings of the sys-
tems of so-called Christianity.
	They were also given the right of the ballot,
which they knew how to use for their own best
interests.  And so the cry is changed, and in
place of the sympathy there seemed to be a
disposition on the part of our Christian friends
to persecute and to even incarcerate them in
prison for being faithful to their covenants,
their husbands and their God.  Call the present
state of things by what name you will, it is
nothing more nor less than a religious persecu-
tion.  Christian ladies’ associations are formed
that fan the flames of intolerance and persecu-
tion, and raise the hue and cry against the
dreadful state of things said to exist among
the hated Mormons, when their greatest crime
consists in seeking to obey the commandments
of God and striving to raise the human race
from the pit of infamy and degradation into
which so many of them have fallen.  Surely
there is work enough for all philanthropists,
and for all the Christian Ladies' Associations,
and for all those ministers who profess to be
the followers of Him who went about doing
good; who condemned not, but said, “Let him
who is without sin among you cast the first
stone."  Yes, you may safely leave the women
of Utah in peace to raise their children in the
paths of honesty and virtue, and betake your-
selves where you are needed—to the haunts of
vice and misery in the great cities of the east,
where thousands suffer and die every year in
the lowest depths of misery and woe, with no
kind hand or voice near to lift them up or
smooth their dark passage to that bourne from
whence no traveler returns. Where innocent
children are continually destroyed to cover
the shame of the authors of their being, or
perhaps to escape the responsibility of matern-
ity other means are resorted to which are a dis-
grace to this Christian land.
	Now, in no way is the downfall of a nation
brought about so quickly as in this, and little
children are forsaken and thrust out into the
cold world, and often have no place to lay
their heads, until they become so familiar with
crime that they are fit subjects for the reform
school or the felon’s cell.  Yes, seek them out;
save the little children from a life of degrada-
tion and sin.  And if any of the fallen Magda-
lenes of society should desire to return to the
paths of virtue, do not pass them by and say,I
am more righteous than thou; but lend them
a helping hand and teach them a better way.
Then will you indeed perform a good work,
and the blessing of them that were ready to
perish will come upon you, and: when you shall
stand before the judge of all the earth these
things will be remembered, for He has said
He will judge every man according to his
works.
	We, the women of Utah, wish to be a band
of reformers.  We set our faces against the de-
moralizing and degrading vices of the age, in
whatever form the hideous monster may raise
his hydra head, whether it be in the gilded
palaces of pleasure of the rich and great where
o hides his frightful mien under silken cur-
tains and garlands of flowers, or whether it be
in the habitations of the lowly where he sets
his snares to betray the innocent and the con-
fiding.  And vice is dressed in its softest and
most insidious garb, and too often takes advan-
tage of the best affection of his victims to over-
come their virtue and lead them to their de-
struction; and when she learns too late the na-
ture of the monster she has cherished in her
bosom, the unfortunate victim is often led to
commit other crimes.  And alas!  she is fallen
indeed.  Shall we follow her in her
downward path and trace her step by step un-
til she reaches the last depths of misery and
sin?
	Oh, we would not willingly know any of
these things.  We would rather close our eyes
and shut out the dreadful sight; but our duty
compels us to raise our voices that the blood of
this generation be not required at our hands.
To save the fallen, to comfort the afflicted, to
teach the erring the way of life and salvation,
is the peculiar work of the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints.  Therefore be-
ware how you fight against this thing called
Mormonism, lest you should be found fighting
against God.
					PHEBE C. YOUNG.


SHORTHAND
	To me it is rather suprising that more ladies
do not admire short hand sufficiently to make
it a study; it is much more easily acquired than
music, and with very little expense.  I took
seventeen lessons, after which I could under-
stand any printed instruction on the subject.
	The system I am learning is Isaac Pitman’s.
It is a pleasant study, and when once acquired
would aid in acquiring others, especially those
taught by lectures, while so much depends on
memory it invariably strengthens that organ.
	The objections to it made by persons who do
not have much copying to do, is, that they
write, so little they would forget it; although
practice is indispensable to gain speed in writ-
ing, a knowledge of it can be retained by
reading books printed in short hand.  Those
in the reporting and corresponding styles are
both interesting and instructive;  some of them
contain foot notes in common print, which the
beginner will find useful.  Mr. Pitman’s week-
ly publications, The Phonetic journal, also
contain some pages in short hand.
After learning the Alphabet, by reading
alone, I learned to write fifty-eight words a
minute. At last the only opportunity I had
or practice was once a month at the Relief So-
ciety meeting; at first I could only insert easy
words, such as the, and, to, etc. but for some
time, though with no other practice, I have
taken down in short hand all I wrote, which
was about one third that was said.  This, no
doubt, seems but little to one that never
tried it.
	Many give up the study when about half
through the most discouraging part. I con-
sider it is a fine accomplishment, even if we
never quite reach the coveted end, verbatim
reporting, and may be acquired with a little
perseverance; an hour devoted to it each day
will soon unfold pleasing results.
	It is also claimed that it induces studious
habits, and has a tendency to improve composi-
tion and penmanship; of the latter art it;may
be considered a branch. While professional
excellence as either penman, reporter or author
is a goal almost too dazzling to think about, it
is probably within, the possibilities for even or-
dinary mortals to acquire one or more of these
arts by home study, after reasonable applica-
tion, and the time devoted to it would scarcely
be missed.
						ANNIE FELLOWS.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Jean Ingelow's new volume of Poems
is about to be published by Roberts Brothers,
Boston, Mass.  Her first volume appeared
eighteen years ago.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Miss Susan B.
Anthony spoke before the Waman's Club in
New Orleans on Monday, March 9th.  Mrs.
Sewall's subject was the home, and Miss An-
thony's was woman suffrage.
	Women vastly outnumber men everywhere
in Massachusetts except in her prisons.  On
the first day of October there were 4,389 con-
victs in that State, of whom 3,586 were men.
The "superfluous" women of the old Bay State
pay their proportion of taxes to convict and
punish this large number of criminals who are
their political superiors, and year after year
their prayer for equality in political matters is
denied by legislators whom the criminal class,
before their incarceration and after their dis-
charge help to choose. - Evening Telegram


164	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
	FASHION, FOLLY, WISDOM.

	I am more than pleased at the action that has
of late been taken by the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Associations throughout Zion to
discountenance the spending of money with
those that are not of us; even for the necessary
articles of clothing, but more especially the dis-
pensing with those articles that may be classed
among the useless; commonly termed gewgaws,
but yet are extensively indulged in as a sort of
vanity.
	The Lord has been pleased to reveal Himself
upon every matter that pertains to cur conduct
upon the earth; He has taught us not only in
relation to that which we should eat and drink,
but has spoken very definitely in regard to our
dress. Here is His language: "Thou shalt not
be proud in thy heart; let thy garments be plain
and their beauty the beauty of the work of
thine own hands." While I would be sorry to
suggest anything that should in the least tend
to destroy in my sisters the love of the beauti-
ful, or that inclination to the legitimate adorn-
ment of the body, which I view to be a gift from
God, yet would I warn the daughters of Zion
against imitating the fashions and follies of a
corrupt world, whose style of dress, and the or-
namentation accompanying the same, do not
originate with the chaste and pure of woman-
kind, but are furnished by men who are paid
fabulous sums of money to invent styles and
fashions that pander to the most vitiated tastes
and wanton desires. Fashions that grati'y vain
and wicked ambitions to-day, and after accom-
plishing their purpose are speedily cast aside to
by replaced by others that have their origin from
the same source.
	The Lord has told us that He is not pleased
with the world nor their practices. He told
Joseph Smith to leave their religion alone, for it
was all wrong. In short, there is hardly a
practice of Babylon to day, but when criticised
and scanned by the light of revelation, would
reveal a wrong somewhere; even those practices
that pertain to the higher walks of life that are
by them considered perfect. We have been told
to "come out of her." What for? "That ye be
not partakers of her sins," etc. Was it our bodies
merely that we were to bring out of Babylon,
and yet retain her customs, her habits and her
practices? I think it meant an entire withdraw-
al, a complete separation. I find among the
many lamantations that will be heard concern-
ing her, when she shall be destroyed, the fol-
lowing: "Her that was clothed in fine linen and
purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and
precious stones and pearls, for in one hour she
is come to naught." Then the command is
given, "Rejoice over her thou heaven, and ye
holy apostles and prophets, for God hath
avenged you on her; for in her was found the
blood of prophets and of Saints, and of all that
were slain upon the earth."

[Column 2]
	Now, tell me there is nothing that per-
tains to Babylon that is worthy of salvation, but
all must be destroyed? Can there possibly be
anything in her that is worthy of imitation by
that people whom God has expressly command-
ed to "come out of her?" On the contrary
wherever Babylon is found to exist in any one
particular there is danger of "plagues," for God
has sworn to destroy her, and that, too, so utter-
ly, that "no place shall be found for her."
	Isaiah had a view of the daughters of Zion in
a day when the poor should be neglected, while
they themselves would be "haughty and walk
with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes."
A day when the Lord should smite them and
"shall take away their changeable suits of ap-
parel, the fine linen, the hoods and the veil,
the bonnets, mufflers, chains, bracelets," as well
as every other article of ornamentation, and
leave them girded in sackcloth. Remember
these were the daughters of Zion who were to
be thus treated. And why? "Because the
daughters of Zion were haughty," etc.
	The tendency to a departure from correct
principles and practices that God has revealed,
involving as it does the most serious consequen-
ces, is deeply to be regretted, and yet it is not
surprising when we consider the temptations
and allurements that surrond us to day. But
are we not responsible in a great degree for the
existence of these things in our midst? Have
we not invited them hither? Have we not
brought them to our very doors, and given them
a place at our firesides? Have we not nourished
and sustained their being until they have grown
strong and powerful, and almost dare us to dis-
place them? Have not our youthful daughters,
in too many instaces, been permitted—nay,
even taught by us to sacrifice, at the shrine of
vanity and foolish fashion, and have they not
learned their lessons so well that they really ex-
cel in these Babylonish accomplishments, tastes
and desires?
	The prudent and thoughtful among us cannot
help but have very serious misgivings in view
of future consequences, for it is a fact that to
the extent that we depart from correct princi-
ples, so are we proportionately in danger.
	God has multiplied blessings upon his people
in these mountains, until they have become
wealthy, and there are not wanting those who
desire to possess themselves of it, and who are
more than ready to bring to us all that is pleas-
ing to the eye and gratifying to the taste, nor do
they stop here, but they also spend much
time and labor in trying to cultivate and im-
prove our taste; but with just the one object in
view, viz., to secure a ready sale for the "latest
fashions;" goods that they have brought at great
expense—especially for our use. Thus the
"lovely dress," the "handsome mantilla," the
"superb cloak," the "charming bonnet," the
"exquisitely fitting shoe," with the very neces-
sary accompaniments of chain, bracelet, breast-
pin, earring, etc., etc., adorn our bodies and
gratify our vanity, and for the time being we
are satisfied. But question, were they not pro-
duced in Babylon—material, labor, everything?
Oh, yes, but "aint they lovely?" But the Lord
says that "our garments should be plain, and
their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own
hands." Oh, that is all very well for religious
people, but then, you know I was never very re-
ligious, and these things are here nd I don't see
why we should not enjoy them; besides they are
much more fashionable, and a great deal cheaper
than anything that could be made here, conse-
quently it is a saving, as well, don't you see?
Thus do we justify ourselves one to another; but
are we justified of God? I answer no, we are
not, for there is not one word contained in the re-
velations of God to His people, written or spoken,
whether it be by way of command, or counsel

[Column 3]of wisdom that we are justified in ignoring, and
before we can be acceptable to our Father we
will be found observing all that He has com-
manded us.
	I have written thus plainly to show my si[-]
ters the magnitude of the work that lies before
them. It will require much faith, much pa-
tience and much prayer, as well as considerable
time to correct these evils that have been pre-
sented, as well as many others that might be
named, for have they not permeated our [-]ntire
society? Showing themselves generally in pro-
portion to our ability to gratify these vitiated
tastes and desires. Nor do we stop here. Some
venture beyond their means, while a few plunge
hopelessly into debt rather than be outdone by
their near acquantices and friends. Thus
may be traced evil after evil growing out of a
desire to do that that the Lord has forbidden;
for we cannot wander in any degree from the
path that He has marked out, and continue so
to do, but other evils will be the result.
	The sustaining of our enemies by our continu-
ous patronage is a wrong so apparent that it
needs no comment; but in view of the tempta-
tions to which we are liable, because of our past
practices, we will have to closely guard ourselves,
and in many instances we will be compelled to
forces ourselves to make the sacrifice. Let us
then, hereafter, not dwell so much upon what
is past, nor elaborate upon the wrongs that have
been, but straightway teach ourselves, and then
teach others correct principles in regard to our
future conduct, and thus step out from the th[-]al-
dom and bondage we find ourselves in to our
enemies—enemies that we have created through
our liberal patronage in gratifying our foolish
vanity.
	Our daughters must be taught these lessons of
wisdom and understadning in regard to their
physical being, as well as the lessons that per-
tain to domestic life, so strongly that when they
marry they are prepared to enter upon the du-
ties of wifehood, and exhibit that vitality of
body, as well as that industry, thrift and econo-
my so necessary to make home happy. Such a
woman will also assume the cares of maternity
with a grace that will stamp her as one that it
in every way worthy, not only to fill the posi-
tion of wife, but that of mother also. 
	Will not the mother who gave broth to such a
daughter be justified in being proud of her?
While her husband (perhaps unconsciously to
himself) will feel the bonds of their union be-
coming stronger as time shall more fully develop
that true womanhood of which she is so fully
possessed. In connection with this there must
also exist that love of God and for the principle
of His holy Gospel, that shall form around her a
bulwark of such strength that in the day of
sore trial and affliction she will stand un-
moved. 
	Let such a foundation be firmly laid in our
daughters; we shall them see exhibited by them
such a strength of character that will be all pow-
erful to resist those encroachments that have
made so very necessary the employment of the
reforming agencies that are now being used to
correct these existing evils.
	Let the daughters of Zion, as well as the sons
of Zion, cease entirely to sustain our enemies;
let them labor from this time forth to build up
Zion in the way that God has appointed; let
them sustain one another, foster the industries
that are already established in our midst, and
make it possible for others to be created; that the
elements around us may be utilized, and made
to produce all that we want to eat, drink and
to wear. Let us leave Babylon, with her follies
and sins, entirely alone, for in this way only
shall we escape her plagues. In proportion as
we do this so will we obtain power over our ene-


mies, and be left free to establish the Kingdom
of God upon the earth.
						J. E. TAYLOR.
Dixie, March 11,1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Conference of the Church will
be held this year in Logan, instead of Salt Lake
City. This is the second time only that the
General Conference has not convened here.
The other instance was in St. George in April
1877.
	THE article on Fashion, Folly, Wisdom, occu-
pies the editorial columns in this issue. These
are very important matters, and the subjects
are forcibly handled. No one can read it with-
out realizing the truths it conveys, and especial-
ly should the daughters of Zion and mothers in
Israel take heed to the wise counsel herein
given.
	SEVERAL articles which have been received,
are laid over for the next issue. Reports of
conferences from Ogden, St. George and Snow-
flake; also Correspondence and an article from
the pen of E H. B., and A Reign of Peace, by
M. E. Kimball, all acceptable and will appear in
good time.
	THE decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the cases of Mary Ann Pratt
and Mildred Randall, determined some points 
that the Commissioners had previously decided
against in their own way; and thus it will be
seen that the votes of many widows, citizens in
their own right, cannot be challenged, and their
names may be registered when the time sh ll
come round for registration again. These ladies
should avail themselves of the privilege, and we
trust will consider it a duty, and not lose the op-
portunity now open to them to exercise the
gift of franchise.
	WE had the pleasure, in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, of visiting the Young Ladies' As-
sociation in the Sixteenth Ward. Miss Emma
Finch, the President, seems in every respect a 
capable and efficient person for such a responsi-
ble position. We were gratified to hear one of
the young ladies offer the first prayer. Judging
from appearances the Association seems to be
in a good condition, and to have a good attend-
ance of intelligent young girls. After the pro-
gramme had been rendered, Miss Finch made
some very apt and timely remarks, and was
followed by the visiting sisters. Bishop Kesler
pronounced the benediction.


AN INTERESTING BOOK.

	Jos. H. Parry & Co. have just published the
third edition of "History and Philosophy of
Marriage, or Polygamy and Monogamy Com-
pared." The book is from the pen of a "Chris-
tian Philanthropist," who, having been strictly
brought up in New England, resided for many
years abroad in foreign countries, and had the
best opportunities of seeing and comprehending
the subjects and practices of which he has so
ably written.
	The careful reading of this book cannot offend
the most delicate or sensitive student of human
nature, or enquirers into the laws of cause and
effect. It is a work of 274 pages, and is written
in a purely conscientious and high, moral tone.
The late publishers have had the copyright
transferred to them, and have issued an edition
of five hundred. At the present time it should
be in every household of the Saints, that they
may have the opinions and testimony of men of
the highest intelligence in this enlighteded
nineteenth century for reference upon a princi-
ple which now involves so much, in the presen


crusade against the people called "Mormons"
	The book contains many historical and philo-
sophical facts with which every individual, who
is interested in the search of truth, should be in
possession and familiar with; that one may
reason intelligently upon vital subjects it is
necessary to be well armed with powerful argu-
ments, facts and figures. Every library should
contain one of these books. Price, $1, for sale
at Jos. Hyrum Parry's book store, Main Street,
opposite Z. C. M. I.


[Column 1]

PRESIDENT CLEVELAND'S INAUGU-
RAL ADDRESS.

 	I must say, for one, that I was pleased and
gratified with President Cleveland's Inaugural
Address (with only one exception. This I can
well understand, having looked upon the sub-
ject in the same way myself at one time), and
expecially the reverence he manifests to his pa-
rent, and also to the sacred volume upon which
he took his oath of office. I always feel to honor
and respect a person who will be controlled by
the rules given in that sacred volume. I feel a
confidence, if they are governed by those laws,
they will make righteous rulers. This book
tells us "When the wicked rule the people
mourn."
	My sincers desire is, that not only President
Cleveland, but also the Senate and Representa-
tives of Congress, will heed and seek the spirit
of inspiration, by which the Bible was written.
Too many throw it aside as a mass of contra-
dictions, because they have no other spirit but
that of the world to read it by. Those who ig-
nore the one will most assuredly deny the other,
because they pride themselves so much in the
powers of mind which they possess, and forget
the kind Providence who endowed them with
this power, and who will call them home shortly
to give an account of how they spent their time
in this school, or probation, as one may choose
to call it. Do they believe all the wicked will
be turned into hell, or make one with all the na-
tions who forget God?
	In reading the History of Benjamin Franklin,
we learn that he recommends prayer to God,
who will assist to settle all questions more per-
fectly. Such men are wise Senators, because
God rules our destinies. But you ask, is not
Congress pursuing the same course, and are we
not serving God when we crush plural marriage
out of the land? Well, I will answer: Plural
marriage has been a severe test in proving who
is a Saint and who is not; and you know the
Scripture tells us that the Lord will have a tried
people. We must prove ourselves worthy of
Him if saved by Him. You will remember
what our Savior said, John xiv 16-17, "Even the
spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive,
because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him;
but ye know him, for he dwelleth in you, and
shall be in you."
	Now allow me to tell you—some of us have
learned that when we are in possession of this
spirit, we are not the same persons that we are
without it. It may truly be called the Comfort-
er, for it heals the wounds which sacrifices make
—wounds that would not be, if we all possessed
this spirit. It seems if all were in possession of
this good spirit there would be no sacrifices.
	We learn from St Paul, Galatians iv 29, "He
that was born after the flesh persecuted Him
that was born after the spirit; even so it is now."
So Paul ought to know, for he served the first
faithfully, before receiving the latter. Accord-
ingly we learn both lessons, as our Mother Eve
designed we should.
	We must possess great nobility of character
to keep the higher law, even that of our Savior,
which will bring a reign of peace on the earth,
because the one who possesses this good spirit

[Column 2]

will sacrifice, in a measure, as far as circumstan-
ces will permit, to one who is ignorant of the
same, hoping that someday he will see his own
errors, when standing before his Maker.
	We are a self-sacrificing people. Did not the
Lord say, "Gather my people together, those
who have made a covenant with me by sacri-
fice?" For what purpose was this? To bring a
reign of peace upon the earth.
	This is to be our Savior's mission when He
comes again. There must be a people prepared
to meet Him. Who will be prepared if there
are none who strictly obey His laws? Are the
whole world becoming infidels? Do none of the
churches of Christendom believe in the Savior's
rules, which will bring a reign of peace on the
earth? Must we be always afflicted, because we
do believe this and are trying to govern self
under all circumstances, according to the laws
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. This
must eventually produce a reign of peace, while
those who do not apply their minds to this rule
cannot expect peace, or the smile of an allwise
Providence. This may well be called the high-
er law—So high that only a few try to reach it;
but those who do find by its precepts they ob-
tain the spirit which gives them more nobility
of character than they could otherwise possess.
	Much may be said upon this subject, but a
hint to the wise is sufficient. I do not counten-
ance infidelity Let us have fidelity to God,
fidelity to our parents, and also to all who
bear rule in righteousness, and no infidelity at
all. These are my sentiments—a few simple
facts given in simplicity.
	M. E. KIMBALL.
March 12, 1885.

QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Relief Society Quarterly Conference, Salt Lake
Stake, was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-bly Rooms, Friday, March 20th, 1885, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horns presiding. Her Counselors, El-
mina S. Taylor and Helen M. Whitney, were
both present in the morning. After the usual
opening exercises and reading of minutes of
previous Conference, reports were read from
thirty-seven branches, showing all to be in a
prosperous condition.
	Prest. Horne gave counsel to the Relief Society
in regard to their duties, and urged them to be
energetic and persevering; take care of the poor,
comfort the distressed, alleviate sorrow and heed
the commandments of God. Advised the sis-
ters to give to the Deseret Hospital, and in all
things to observe strict economy, remembering
God had made every economy in nature so that
there should be no waste. She also urged the
secretaries to take pains to prepare correct re-
ports, and that it was expected each branch so-
ciety should be represented in the Conference; if
not convenient for the President, one of her
Counselors, if possible, that they might hear the
instructions given for their benefit and help.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney addressed the meeting:
Alluded to her absence from the meetings be-
cause of sickness, but her desire was to be with
them and do her part; referred to her recent
visit to the Tooele Conference, in company with
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball, and spoke of some
of the instructions given there by Apostle
Lyman. She spoke upon charity and forgiveness
towards one another, and upon the principle of
plural marriage, relating an incident in her own
experience. Made other good remarks.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Rachel
R. Grant.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises, when the meeting was addressed by
Counselor E. S. Taylor.


[Column 1]

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Phebe W.
Woodruff, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carrington, Mrs. H.
T. King, Mrs. Grant and Mrs. Horne each
spoke upon subjects calculated to impress the
minds of the sisters with a due sense of the ob-
ligations resting upon them as Latter-day Saints
the momentous events now transpiring with
this people, the need of becoming more self-sus-
taining, and of withdrawing our patronage
from those who were seeking to deprive us of
our rights and privileges, and to bring upon us
desolation and misery, because of our religious
belief and practice, the training of the children
of Zion and the education of the mind and
heart in the principles of the Gospel and in
everything pertaining to our life and well being
here upon the earth, and our exaltation in a fu-
ture state.
	At the close of the meeting Conference ad-
journed for three months.  Singing, "Haste,
glorious day," etc.  Benediction by President
Horne.

	The Primay Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday, March 21st, 1885,
commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. Singing, "Come, children come,"
etc. Prayer by Sister R. M. Carrington. Sing-
ing, "Jospeh Smith's first prayer." A little
girl from the Third Ward sang a song. Minutes
of previous Confernece, and reports from the
several Associations, were read by the Secretary,
Miss Bessie Deane. Several little girls from the
Thirteenth Ward sang "Our Father in heaven,"
etc.; a little girl from the Fourth Ward read a
manuscript paper, entitled "The Children's
Helper;" Recitation, by little Minnie James of
the Seventh Ward; Dialogue, "The Deacons,"
by two boys from the Fifth Ward; a flute solo,
by a little boy, seven years old, from the
Twelfth Ward. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleausre at the number of reports received, and
also that the exercises had been so well rendered,
and spoke of her intention to have a Fair for this
Stake the coming summer. A little girl recited
a piece, entitle "False Alarms."
	Sister M. L. Horne addressed the children on
keeping the Sabbath day holy, speaking the
truth and other important matters. A little
girl from the Seventeenth Ward sang a song
entitled "Charity."
	Sister Carrington spoke upon prayer—had
great faith in the prayers of the children; urged
them to pry for the authorities of the Church
and those in trouble at the present time, and
made other remarks.  An organ solo was then
given by a little girl from the Twentieth Ward.
	Coun. Lydis Ann Wells rejoiced at the large
attendance, adn the improvement manifested
in the children; told them to try and learn some-
thing every day; exhibited some very interest
ing charts; thought every Association should
have them, as they would be very instructive.
Gave notice that the officers meeting would be
held the last Thursday in every month, at the
residence of Prest. Clawson, and exhorted the
officers to attend. Recitation, by Eva Barfoot,
and a song by three girls of the Twenty-first
Ward; a little girl from the sixteenth Ward
gave a recitation, after which Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Lord,
dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Sister E. B.
Wells.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Conference—On Saturday, at
2 p.m., the Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
Salt Lake Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms. There was a large at-
tendance, the hall being crowded. Counselor
Mrs. ria Y. Dougall presided. After the usual

[Column 2]

opening exercises, Stake Secretary, Augusta J.
Crocheron, read the minutes of previous Con-
ference, and Assistant Secreatary, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, read reports from twenty associations,
which made a very satisfactory showing. Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougall, Elmina S. Taylor, M. I.
Horne, Minnie H. James, and Elders George H.
Taylor and S. Hill addressed the conference;
their remarks were instructive and encouraging,
and general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister E. S. Taylor in her remarks referred to
the reading of the Christmas Idyl in the Logan
Conference of Y. L. M. I. A., and said it was
pleasure to hear a young lady read so grand a
poem with such a true idea of its merrits and
force.
	The following resolutions were presented and
unanimously adopted:
	"Whereas, there is being carried on in this
Territory, by a clique of despicable schemers, an
inhuman warfare against the peace and liberties
of the Latter-day Saints, in conducting which
the rights of its victims and common decency
are trampled under foot; and,
	Whereas, We view the course of these con-
spirators against the rights and privileges of our
relatives nad friends with abhorence; there-
fore,
	Be it resolved, that from this time forward,
we will abstain from giving any business pat-
ronage to the promoters of, and active partici-
pants in, the crusade against the Latter-day
Saints, and all those who assist it or give it their
sympathy; also,
	Be it further resolved, That we will in future
make our purchases from our friends only, and
so far as lies in our power, give home manufac-
ture [-] goods the preference over those imported,
and use our best endeavors to sustain such
manufacture."
	The Conference then adjourned for three
months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"And, behold, there is none other place ap-
pointed than that which I have appointed, nei-
ther shall there be any other place appointed
than that which I have appointed for the work
of the gathering of my saints until the day
cometh when there is found no more room for
them; and then I have other places which I
will appoint unto them and they shall be
called stakes, for the curtains or the strength
of Zion.
	"Behold, it is my will that all they who call
on my name and worship me according to my
everlasting Gospel, should gather together and
stand in holy places, and prepare for the revel-
ation that is to come when the veil of the cov-
ering of my temple in my tabernacle which
hideth the earth shall be taken off, and all
flesh shall see me together. And every cor-
ruptible thing, both of man or of beast of the
field, or of the fowls of heaven, or of the sea,
etc. Behold, here is wisdom concerning the
children of Zion, even many, but not all, they
were found transgressors, therefore, they needs
be chastened, etc."
	Now, in the revelation are some very great
promises to that little handful of exiled Saints,
and to their children, who had been driven
from their homes and scattered hither and
thither, wandering among strangers, without
shelter, and destitute of food and comfortable
clothing, threatened, at every turn, with death,
and suffering many afflictions because of their
religion. This is the kind of a people the
Lord is going to restore to their inheritances in
the land of Zion, including all the faithful, and
no other people need think to intercept them,
for the promise is to them and their children,

[Column 2]

whether they live or die, if they are faithful.
And I see no promise to any people inheriting
that holy land and building up the Zion of our
God, who have not suffered persecution. (I
understand the Josephites are gathering to In-
dependence, Jackson County, with the inten-
tion of building up Zion.)
	"The scattered Saints in Missouri commenced
the year of 1834 with a conference, which they
held in Clay County, on the first day of Jan.,
at which Bishop Partridge presided. After
transacting much business, relative to comfort-
ing and strengthening the scattered members
of the Church, it was resolved that Lyman
Wight and Parley P. Pratt be sent as special
messengers to represent the condition of the scat-
tered brethren in Missouri, to the presiding
Church in Kirtand, and ask their advice.
	The following are extracts of letters written
by the Presidency in Kirtland, on the 22nd of
Jan., 1834:
	There is a prospect of the eastern churches
doing something pretty handsome towards the
deliverance of Zion, in the course of a year, if
Zion is not delivered otherwise.
	Though the Lord said, this affliction came
upon you because of your sins, polluting your
inheritances, etc., yet there is an exception of
some, namely, the heads of Zion, for the Lord
said, your brethren in Zion begin to repent,
and the angels rejoice over them, etc.
	You will also see an exception at the top of the
second column of this revelation; therefore this
affliction came upon the Church to chasten
those in transgression, and prepare the hearts
of those who had repented for an endowment
from the Lord.
	We shall not be able to send you any more
money at present, unless the Lord puts it into
our hands unexpectedly.
	There is not quite so much danger of a mob
upon us as there has been. The hand of the
Lord has been stretched out to protect us."
	"You purchased your inheritances with
money, therefore, behold you are blessed; you
have not purchased your lands by the shedding
of blood, consequently you do not come under
the censure of this commandment, which says,
'If by blood lo your enemies are upon you,
and ye shall be driven from city to city, give
yourselves no uneasiness on this account."
	The following revelation was given Feb. 29,
1839, concerning the redemption of Zion,
which can be read in the Doctrine and Coven-
ants, but is too good to be entirely left out
here:
	"Verily I say unto you, my friends, behold I
will give unto you a revelation and command-
ment, that you may know how to act in the
discharge of your duties concerning the salva-
tion and redemption of your brethren who
have been scattered from the land of Zion, be-
ing driven and smitten by the hands of mine
enemies, on whom I will pour out mine wrath
without measure, in mine own due time, for I
have suffered them thus far, that they might
fill up the measure of their iniquities, that
their cup might be full; and that those that
call themselves after my name might be
chastened for a little season with a sore and
grievous chastisement, because they did not
hearken altogether unto the precepts and com-
mandments which I gave unto them. But
verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a
decree,which my people shall realize inasmuch
as they hearken from this hour unto the coun-
sel, which I, the Lord their God, give unto
them.
	Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, be-
gin to prevail against my enemies from this
very hour; and by hearkening to observe all
the words which I, the Lord their God, shall
speak unto them; they shall never cease to pre-
vail until the kingdoms of the world are sub-
dued under my feet, and the earth is given
unto the Saints to possess it for ever and ever.


[Column 1]

	But inasmuch as they keep not my command-
ments, and hearken not to observe all my words'
the kingdoms of the world shall prevail
against them; for they were set to be a light
unto the world and to be saviors of men, and
inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men
they are as salt that hath lost its savor, and is
therefore good for nothing but to be cast out
and to be trodden under the feet of men.
	But verily I say unto you, I have decreed
that your brethren, who have been scattered,
shall return to the land of their inheritances
and build up the waste places of Zion, for after
much tribulation, as I have said unto you in a
former commandment, cometh the blessing.
Behold this is the blessing which I promised
after your tribulations, and the tribulations of
your brethren, even their restoration to the
land of Zion, to be established no more to be
thrown down. Nevertheless if they pollute
their inheritances they shall be thrown down,
for I will not spare them if they pollute their
inheritances.
	Behold, I say unto you, that the redemption
of Zion must needs come by power, therefore
I will raise up unto my people a man who
shall lead them like as Moses led the children
of Israel; for ye are the children of Israel and
of the seed of Abraham, and ye must needs be
led out of bondage by power with a stretched
out arm; and as your fathers were led at the
first, even so shall the redemption of Zion be:
therefore, let not your hearts faint, for I say
not unto you as I did unto your fathers, mine
angel shall go up before you, but not my
presence; but I say unto you mine angel shall
go up before you, and also my presence, and in
time ye shall possess the goodly land."	*	*
	Joseph continues: "Thus while the press
was mourning, the work prospering, the Saints
rejoicing in the east, troubles changed and mul-
tiplied in the west, as may be seen by the fol-
lowing letter, written by W. W. Phelps:
	Clay Co., Mo., Feb. 27, 1834.

DEAR BRETHREN:
	The times are so big with events, and the
anxiety of everybody so great to watch them,
that I feel somewhat impressed to write often-
er than I have done, in order to give you more
of the "strange acts" of this region.
	I have just returned from Independence, the
seat of war in the west. About a dozen of our
brethren, among whom were Bishop Partridge,
Elder Corrill and myself, were subpoened in
behalf of the state; and on the 23rd of Feb.,
about twelve o'clock, we were on the bank op-
posite Everetts' Ferry, where we found Cap-
tain Atchison's company of "Liberty Blues,"
near fifty, rank and file, ready to guard us into
Jackson County. The soldiers were well armed
with United States Muskets, bayonets fired, etc.,
and to me the scene was "passing strange"
and long to be remembered; the martial law in
force to guard the civil. About twenty-five
men crossed over to effect a landing in safety,
and when they came near the warehouse they
fired six or eight guns, though the enemy had
not gathered to witness the landing. After we
were all across and waiting for the baggage
wagon, it was thought most advisable to en-
camp in the woods, and the witnesses, with half
the company, marched nearly a mile towards
Independence to build night fires, as we were
without tents and the weather cold enough to
snow a little. While on the way the Quarter
master and others, that had gone on head to
prepare quarters in town, sent an express back,
which was not very pacific in appearance.
Captain Atchison continued the express to Col.
Allen for the two hundred drafted militia, and
also to Liberty for more ammunition; and the
night passed off in warlike style, with the
sentinels marching silently at a proper distance
from the watch fire.

[Column 2]

	Early in the morning we marched, strongly
guarded by the troops, to the seat of war, and
quartered in the block house, formerly the
tavern stand of S. Flournay. After breakfast
we were visited by the District Attorney, Mr.
Reese, and Attorney General Mr. Wells. From
them we learned that all hopes of criminal
prosecution was at an end. Mr. Wells had
been sent by the governor to investigate, as
far as possible, the Jackson Co. outrage, but
the bold front of the mob, bound even unto
death, (as I have heard) was not to be pene-
trated by civil law, nor awed by executive in-
fluence. Shortly after Captain Atchison in-
formed me that he had just received an order
from the judge that his company's service was
no longer needed in Jackson County, and we
were marched out of town to the tune of Yan-
kee-doodle in quick time, and soon returned to
our camp without the loss of any lives. (This
order was issued by the court, apparently, on
account of the speedy gathering of the old
mob, or citizens of Jackson County, and their
assuming such a boisterous and mobocratic ap-
pearance.) In fact much credit is due to Cap-
tain Atchison for his gallantry and hospitality,
and I think I can say of the officers and com-
pany that their conduct as soldiers and men is
highly reputable, so much so knowing as I do
the fatal result had the militia come, or not
come; I can add that the Captain's safe return
refreshed my mind with Xenophen's safe retreat
of the ten thousand. Thus ends all hope of
redress, even with a guard ordered by the
governor, for the protection of the court and
witnasses.
	Before a crop is harvested it becomes ripe of
itself. The dreadful deeds now done in Jackson
Co.. with impunity, must bring matters to a
focus shortly. Within two or three weeks
past some of the most savage acts ever wit-
nessed have been committed by these bitter
branches. Old Father Lindsey, whose locks
have been whitened by the blasts of nearly
seventy winters, had his house thrown down,
after he had been driven from it, his goods corn,
etc. piled together and fire put to it, but for-
tunately, after the mob retired, his son extin-
guished it."	*	*	*	*


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

FREMONT, PIUTE CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few words from this part of
the vineyard would not be amiss we send a few
words to let you know that we are alive to our
duties and striving, to the best of our ability
to serve the Lord and teach the young in the
ways of truth and righteousness.
	Our association is in a good condition, and
the members are always ready, when called
upon, to respond to their duties. If you think
this worth space in your columns please pub-
lish. We are, as ever, the well wishers of the
cause of truth.
	MARGRET J. TAYLOR, President,
	SARAH A. ALLRED, Secretary,
	ANNA S. TAYLOR, Ass't Sec.

BEAVER	STAKE.
	On Friday, March 6th, a conference of the
ladies Relief Society of Beaver Stake was
held here, of which the following is a synopsis:
Called to order at 10 a.m. by Prest. Lucinda
Howd.
	After the preliminary exercises the Prest.
called for reports from the various wards, all
of which were eminently satisfactory, showing
the societies to be under able management and
the members of each fully alive to the import-
ance of the times, and to the necessity of minis-
tering to the wants of the poor and needy.
	A number of the ladies spoke and the in-


structions were of a nature tending to elevate
and refine the hearers, if put into practice.
Much good instruction was given to mothers
on the training of children. Some remarks
were made on the proceedings in the District
Court—nothing but faith and firmness will bear
us through this time of trial.
	In the afternoon the statistical and financial 
reports of the wards were read, and the local
authorities unanimously sustained; after which
several of the brethren spoke at some length,
showing that the times in which we live are
calculated to educate us in the ways of the
Lord, and as we have no friend but our Hea-
venly Father, we must look to Him alone for
protection.
	The general spirit of the conference was im-
provement in all good works, and diligence in
the cause of the Lord.	E. A. F.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	NUTRIOSO, Arizona, Feb. 13, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking perhaps a few words from far away
might be interesting is why I write.
	We left St. George the last of June 1883,
and after an agreeable visit to Panguitch Lake
and various settlements we returned to St.
George to the fall conference and soon after
bade adieu to our much cherished home, and
the Temple and its pleasant associations. We
had a very prosperous journey of 500 miles
through an indescribable wilderness of sterile
barrenness, and came to this place in good
health and spirits, although tired, worn and
weary. We here found most of our family in
peace, comfort and reasonably prosperous in
the midst of the saints.
	This is a pleasant, fertile, but small, valley,
truly in the tops of the mountains, with beau-
tiful scenery of low hills and openings of tim-
ber for farms, with the necessary water, this be-
ing a rainy climate. We have here the best
built and finest little town in Arizona; the
dwellings of frame painted white, with good,
substantial frame barns and outhouses; a co-op-
erative store in healthy and prosperous condi-
tion. We have a good frame meeting house,
also white, which is also our school house. Our
meetings are well attended, also our day and
Sunday schools, not forgetting the prosperous
condition of our Primary and Relief Society.
	The Brown brothers have a steam saw mill
in successful operation, to whose enterprise and
energy much of the prosperity of this little
town is to be credited.
	Yours respectuflly,	T. C.

	LOA, Piute Co., Feb. 15, 1885.
DEAR AUNT LULA:
	Your kind, good letter was received in due
time. I thank you for all your kind, comfort-
ing words; do not know whether I will be able
to come up there this summer, but I do know
that I improve all the time, although it is
slowly, but it is better slowly than not at all,
and I thank and praise the Lord for His good-
ness.
	I have written a little poem for baby Evan.
It is just an imaginary picture, not so good as
I should like. Sometime I may write him a 
better one.

BABY EVAN. 

I see his bright and heavenly eyes,
Tender and blue as yonder skies;
His softly floating golden hair
Hangs o'er his brow so pure and fair.
	Baby Evan!

His little hands, so plump and white,
to Willie's gown are clinging tight,
And coaxing him to play bo-peep
Around the crib where Lee's asleep.
	Baby Evan!


O artist! paint that picture true!
The golden hair and eyes of blue;
The rosy lips, half open now
To steal a kiss from Lee's fair	brow.
	Baby Evan!

Lee starts, and opens wide his eyes;
The others look with pleased surprise.
Oh, be those spirits pure and fair
When men as now I see them there!
	Sweet children!

COUSIN HATTIE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Remembering the great interest and sympa-
thy you expressed for my little afflicted niece,
Hattie Young, after you saw her two or three
years ago, I feel sure you will be pleased and
gratified to see the foregoing letter and poem
from her pen. If you think proper you are at
liberty to publish them.	LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Miss Helen Gladstone's engagement to Prof-
essor James Stuart has been announced
through the papers. Prof. Stuart has been
lately elected to Parliament in place of Post-
master General Fawcett deceased. Miss Glad-
stone is the daughter of the Premier of Great
Britain.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at her residence, in Wilson Ward, Weber Co.,
Utah, January 26th, 1883, aged fifty-three years, ten
months and five days, of dropsy, Pettra Nellie Nielson,
beloved wife of L. H. Nielson, born in Sweden—bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints March, 1856; has passed through persecutions and
imprisonment in the old country for the Gospel's sake,
also many trying scenes in the Church and while cross-
ing the plains, but has ever been true and faithful,
never doubting the truth of the Gospel.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the members of the Wilson Ward Relief Society,
of Weber Co., Utah, unanimously adopt the following
Resolutions:
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death our much loved and
worthy teacher, and,
	Whereas, Her labor in our Society has been faithfully
performed, we feel that some respect due her virtues be
recognized among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of our
sister, Pettra Nellie Nielson, the loss of an able, effic-
ient and faithful teacher in our Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and emula-
tion of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children, relatives and
friends, in the loss of a loving wife, affectionate mother
and true friend.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
record, that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved
husband, and also that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
	GENET BINGHAM, President,
	AMANDA M. BINGHAM, Secretray.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved President and respected friend, Mary A. Shaffer,
who departed this life March 7th, 1885. She was the
wife of William Shaffer, and daughter of Thomas and
Hannah Hobson Bradshaw. Was born October 9th,
1844, Yorkshire, England. Her life to us seems but
brief, but has been spent in usefulness.
	She was President of the Relief Society of Ashley
Mill Ward, in which her labors were appreciated; was
also Secretary of the Primary, where she will at the
present time be greatly missed. Her earnest desire was
to understand the principles of her religion, and to live
them; and at no time was she heard to raise her voice in
objection to any principle. Her teachings and wise
counsels will long be remembered by the little ones of
this place.
	During her hours of sickness she was tenderly cared
for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her every
possible assistance, but God, in His inscrutable pur-
poses, has a greater work for her behind the veil, where

[Column 2]

she has gone to prepare the way for those she leaves
here.
	The funeral services were held at the school house
Sunday, March 8th, being the largest assembly of the
kind in this place. Remarks of consolation were offered
by Bishop Hatch and Counselor Clark, after which the
procession moved to the burying ground, where, with
the dedicatory prayer, the remains of our sister were
consigned to their last resting place, there to await the
resurrection of the just.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary A.
Shaffer, by the Relief Society of Ashley Mill Ward.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst, by the hand of death, our beloved sis-
ter, we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy
member of the Relief Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors, and
devotion to duty, as worthy the fellowship and highest
esteem of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of an affectionate wife and a
kind friend.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
record, and a copy of the same be presented to the be-
reaved family, also the EXPONENT for publication.
	MELISSA REYNOLDS,
	ELLA REYNOLDS, Secretrary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It becomes our painful duty to transmit to you the
sad intelligence of the death of our beloved sister, Lois
Barnes Pratt, wife of Bishop John Hunt, who departed
this life, through an accident of being burned, March
9th, 1885. Sister Hunt was born March 6th, 1837, in the
Town of Ripley, Chatauqua Co., New York. She was
baptized when eight years old in the Mississippi River.
When quite small her father, Elder Addison Pratt, was
called on a mission to the Society Islands, and was ab-
sent several years. Her mother, Louisa B. Pratt, with
her four little daughters, passed through all the persecu-
tions of the Saints, without her husband's help, while
he was away laboring as a missionary, and crossed the
plains, driving her own team, with the assistance of a
small boy, and arrived in the valley among the first, in
President B. Young's company.
	When in her thirteenth year Sister Lois Hunt went
with her mother and sisters to join her father on his
second mission to the Society Islands. They remained
there one year and a half. She could talk and sing in
the Tahitian language. When they returned from their
mission they remained in California, where she became
acquainted with and was married to John Hunt, July
4th, 1857, by Wm. J. Cox.
	She was the mother of eight children, six daughters
and two sons, all of whom are still living. She was
chosen Second Counselor to Sister Willmirth East,
Stake President, July 12th, 1880. When Sister East
moved away she was chosen First Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Emma S. Smith, Septembe
18th, 1883.
	She was a noble, generous woman. She could truly
be called a leader among us; especially, by her example,
influencing us to be punctual and prompt at our
meetings, encouraging us to be faithful in looking after
the sick and needy, teaching us to be charitable to each
other; always a peace maker, and was one who could
always see some good in every one. As her husband
was our Bishop and father, she was also our mother.
	The following Resolutions of Respect we feel to unani-
mously adopt.
	That, inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has seen fit
to take from our midst our dearly beloved sister, who
was ever faithful and true,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society,
do deeply mourn our beloved President, and that we
condole with her husband and daughter, who are absent
at this time, and with every member of the family, in
this their great loss: but while weeping together, we feel
to look beyond this vale of tears to the happy home
above, and to the time of rejoicing when the faithful
will all be reunited again. And, be it
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the mourning family, that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT, and also that a copy be preserved in our Stake
Record.	(Signed)
	EMMA S. SMITH,
	MARY J. WEST,
	LUCY H. FLAKE,
	JANE FREEMAN,
	PHEBE KARTCHNER.
Snowflake, Apache Co., Arizona, March 13th, 1885.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT’ CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And	an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 1l4, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains. Brocaded and Plaia Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at Manufacturers’ Prices, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Ecx 906, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1885.	NO. 22.


ADIEU FOR A SEASON.

BY M. J. TANNER.

I have longed from my nest to go forth,
	From my perch in these mountain tops free;
To travel new paths of the earth
	The grandeur and beauty to see.

For lo, there's a voice from the cast,
	Where the glow of the sunrise is seen,
And it reaches these valleys of peace
	Where the myrtle and ivy are green.

And a voice lingers oft in my dreams,
	'Tis the voice of affection and love.
And so sweet is the echo, it seems
	That my heart is quite willing to rove.

As the dove that set forth from the ark,
	Its foot on the mountain to try,
May I ever return to my bark
	With the olive-leaf waving on high.

I have dwelt in these valleys so green,
	And my feet on the mountains have trod;
On the heights and the depths I have seen
	To impress of nature and God.

The strom king has raged fierce and wild,
	And the torrents have foamed in their wrath;
But the sun on the morrow has smiled
	And shone on the desolate path.

And 'tis thus with the passions of man;
	They may rage for awhile fierce and free,
But his spirit will long for a calm,
	Though the track of the tempest we see.

And the strength of his might will go forth,
	And the sound of his voice will be heard,
And his genius will cover the earth,
	Nor shrink at the might of his word.

But oh! there's a power on high,
	Omnipotent, steadfast and true;
The strength of his will to defy,
	And the might of his hand to undo.

I will trust that Omnipotent power,
	Which doeth all things wise and well;
He will guard o'er my steps every hour,
	And hold my frail life with His spell.

I will go from the rock and the glen
	That shadowed the home of my youth,
Where the home of my childhood has been
	In the shelter of honor and truth.

And while in the world I would roam,
	Like a bird that has flown from her nest,
My heart lingers still with my home,
	And I carry its love in my breast;

For I know that wherever I go,
	And whatever my calling may be,
I know that a voice, soft and low,
	Will ever be whispering to me.

And the sound of its echo will last
	When the voice that I list for has fled.
When the heart in its silence has passed
	Through the shadows that close o'er the dead.

Then let me go forth if I will,
	With my feet amid strangers to stray,
My heart will return to you still,
	To the friends that I love, far away

And then when my steps shall return,
	These green, sunny valleys to view,
My heart with emotion will burn,
	And my spirit will ever be true.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	Bro. Joseph and the brethren in Kirtland
were making efforts to raise volunteers, to go
up to Zion to assist the Church in the west.
They traveled through different branches of
the Church, and stopped at Bro. Nickerson's.
Joseph says: "We called the Church together
and related unto them what had happened to
our brethren in Zion, and opened to them the
prophecies and revelations concerning the
order of the gathering to Zion, and the means
of her redemption; and I prophecied to them,
and the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon
them, and with all readiness the young and
middle aged volunteered for Zion."	*	*
	The great burden that seemed to rest upon
Brother Joseph at this time was the welfare
and deliverance of Zion. His prayers were
offered up to his God continually in behalf of
her children, who were afflicted, and wander-
ing as outcasts from their homes in this boasted
land of freedom.
	While the brethren in Kirtland were trying
to raise a company to go to Missouri to deliver
Zion, the Saints in Zion were writing and re-
ceiving communications from the governor and
other officers of the State to obtain redress for
grievances; but, as the sequel shows, it availed
them nothing.
	Although the Saints, or most of them, had
left Jackson County, persecution did not en-
tirely cease. Joseph, with Zion's camp, was
now on his way to Missouri.
	"Monday, June 16th, 1834. The citizens of
Clay County, to the number of eight hundred
or a thousand, among whom were the brethren,
assembled at the Court House in Liberty
agreeably to the request of Judge Ryland, and
a deputation from Jackson, who presented the
following;
	"Propositions of the people of Jackson County
to the Mormons. The undersigned committee,
being fully authorized by the people of Jack-
son County, hereby propose to the Mormons
that they will buy all the land that the said
Mormons own in the County of Jackson, and
also all the improvements which the said Mor-
mons had on any of the public lands in said
County of Jackson, as they existed before the
first disturbance between the people of Jackson
and the Mormons, and for such as they have
made since.	*	*	(Read in Joseph
Smith's History.)
	On presentation of the foregoing Samuel C.
Owens made a flaming war speech, and Gen,
Doniphan replied on the side of peace. The
Rev. M, Riley, a Baptist Priest, made a hot
speech against the Mormons, and said, "The
Mormons have lived long enough in Clay Co.,
and they must either clear out or be cleared
out." Turnham, the moderater of the meet-
ing, answered in a masterly manner, saying,
"Let us be Republicans; let us honor our coun-
try and not disgrace it like Jackson County.
For God's sake don't disfranchsie or drive
away the Mormons. They are better citizens
than many of the old inhabitants."
	Gen. Doniphan exclaimed, "That's a fact;
and as the Mormons have armed themselves,
if they don't fight they are cowards. I love
to hear that they have brethren coming to thier
assistance. Greater love can no man show

[Column 2]

than he who lays down his life for his breth-
ren."
	At this critical instant the cocking of pistols
and jingle of the implements of death, denoted
desperation. One motioned "adjourn!" another
"go on!" and in the midst of this awful crisis a
person bawled into the door, "A man stabbed."
The mass instantly rushed out to the spot, in
hopes, as some said, that one d—d Mormon
had got killed; but as good luck would have it,
only one Missourian had dirked another. (One
Calbert, a blacksmith, had stabbed one Wales,
who had previously whipped one Mormon
nearly to death, and boasted of whipping many
more.) The wound was dangerous, and as if
the Lord was there, it seemed as though the
occurrence was necessary to break up the meet-
ing without further bloodshed, and gave the
Saints a further chance to consult what would
be most advisable in such a critical instant, and
they immediately penned the following answer
to the propositions from Jackson County, pre-
sented by Owens, etc."
	"Gentlemen: Your proposition for an ad-
justment of the difficulties between the citizens
of Jackson County and the Mormons, is be-
fore us, and as explained to you in the Court
House this day,we are not authorized to say to
you that our brethren will submit to your pro-
posals; but we agree to spread general notice,
and call a meeting of our people in all, the
present week, and lay before you an answer as
soon as Saturday or Monday next. We can
say for ourselves, and in behalf of our breth-
ren, that peace is what we desire, and what we
are disposed to cultivate with all men; and to
effect peace we feel disposed to use all our in-
fluence, as far as would be required at our
hands, as free born citizens of these United
States; and as fears have been expressed that
we designed hostilities against the inhabitants
of Jackson County, we hereby pledge our-
selves to them, and to the hospitable citizens of
Clay County, that we will not, and neither
have designed, as a people, to commence hos-
tilities against the aforsaid citizens of Jackson
County, or any other people."	*	*	*
	It may be be thought, at first view, that the
mob committee made a fair proposition to the
Saints in offering to buy their lands at one
hundred per. cent, in thirty days, and offering
theirs on the same terms; but when it is under-
stood that the mob held possession of a much
larger quantity of land than the Saints, and
that they only offered thirty days for the pay-
ment, having previously robbed them of nearly
everything, it will be readily seen that they
were only making a sham to cover their previ-
ous unlawful conduct; but the tempest of an
immediate conflict seemed to be checked, and
the Jackson mob,to the number of about fifteen,
with Samuel C. Owens and James Campbell at
their head, started for Independance, Jackson
County, to raise an army to meet me (Joseph)
before I could get into Clay County. Campbell
swore, as he adjusted his pistols in his holsters,
"The eagles and turkey buzzards shall eat
my flesh if I do not fix Joe Smith and his
army so that their skins will not hold shucks,
before two days are passed." They went to
the ferry and undertook to cross the Missouri
River, after dusk, and the angel of God saw
fit to sink the boat, about the middle of the
river, and seven out of twelve that attempted
to cross, were drowned. Thus suddenly and
justly went they to their own place by water.
Campbell was among the missing. He floated


down the river some four miles, and lodged
upon a pile of drift wood, where the eagles,
buzzards, ravens, crows and wild animals ate
his, flesh from his bones, to fulfill his own
words, and left him a, horrible looking skeleton
of God's vengeance, which was discovered about
three weeks after by one Mr. Purtle. Owens
saved his life only after floating four miles
down the stream, where he lodged upon an
island, swam off naked about daylight, bor-
rowed a mantle to hide his shame, and slipped
home rather shy of the vengeance of God."
	"We (Zion's camp) were threatened that we
should not pass through Richmond, and it was
reported that an army lay in wait to intercept
us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	The incidents copied from my husband's
journal will probably call up many a reminis-
cence in the minds of those who took part in
the scenes that were dotted down during the
journey and sojourn of the Latter-day Saints
in the wilderness. The following he wrote:
	"January 26th. A meeting of the second
company, under H. C. Kimball, was held at
the council house at 10 p.m.. I arose and
read the names of those who joined the com-
pany, also those who had given in a list of
their property. President Young then moved
that Bro. Kimball nominate his own officers,
which he proceeded to do. After reading the
names of those who were elected unanimously,
each named individual spoke, returning their
thanks to the brethren for the honor conferred
upon them—stating their intention to magnify
their office. The captains of fifties were en-
joined to organize their companies and appoint
captains of tens.
	"Afterwards Bro. Kimball spoke at some
length, using the parable of a vessel being
cracked and remoulded into its proper shape
by the hands of the potter. "Every one has got
to take an equal share of the burden of taking
on the poor, etc. I want those who constitute
the officers in my company should act as
fathers in Israel, and accomodate themselves to
the minds and wishes of the people. I feel,
sometimes, as though, like a barrel, I should
burst with care and anxiety for the brethren,
and would like an additional band fastened to
me. There has got to be a pioneer company
to start from here, and those who can stay will
stay, and this to be subject to the decision of
the presidents. Those who stay will remain to
cultivate the ground. It is necessary for
every one to prepare himself with axle trees to
their wagons, etc, inasmuch as there is no tim-
ber for a long way after we leave here."	*	*
Meeting adjourned.
	He speaks of a party, including a part of
the quorum of seventies, which came off at the
council house the same day, commencing at
three o'clock p.m., and continuing till nearly
morning. Another one was held Wednesday
evening by others of the seventies, and on
Thursday evening, the latter, Horace speaks of
attending and most of my father's family.
There were many parties held there during the
winter, and a dancing school was started about
the 8th of February. In all these I had no
participation, being prostrated by sickness
from the middle of January until spring.
	On the 29th Horace mentions a meeting
held at my father's house pursuant to agree-
ment, at 10 a.m. "The first thing taken into
consideration was to appoint a clerk Brother
James Sloan was elected to that office. An-
other thing stated by Bro Kimball was, that
those upon whom the duty principally devolved,

[Column 2]

i e, the Presidency and authority should travel
as nearly together as possible in one company,
in order that everything might be more con-
venient when they were obliged to assemble for
counsel.
	Brother Harrison Burgess came in and stated
that he had a line for Bro. Kimball, which
was the resignation of Bro. R.——of the office 
of captain of fifty. Bro. Kimball gave the
article of resignation to Father Cutler for his
disposal. Father Cutler observed that it
would be at the disposal of the captains of the
first company, where to place his men, and in
what order. Bro. Henry Herriman was elected
to the office of captain, first company. It was
concluded, through Bro. Kimball's suggestion,
to entitle our body "The Second Division of
the camp of Israel.	*	*	He said,
"It makes no difference where we are placed,
whether in the first, second or third company,
and that when he made the nomination of his
officers, he looked for those who would act as
fathers in Israel; and he wished them to treat
this people as a child, and nurse them and be
careful of their feelings." He told the breth-
ren it was their duty to get all the names they
could and just as soon as the hundreds filled
up, that there should be at least thirty men
drawn out of each for pioneers. Bro Kimball
observed that we need not depend on any regu-
lar order till we get organized in fifties, because
there would be draughts upon them for
pioneers, artillery, hunting, etc.
	After the officers had each chosen their cap-
tains of fifties, he says, "Bro. Kimball said,
'In traveling we should generally be governed
by circumstances,' and that he intended to imi-
tate President Young in his order of traveling,
and that it would be a long time before we
would be governed by any definite rule.	*	*
He knew the people were more tired on this
last journey than they ever were before, and
quoted the Carloss Granger story as illustrative
of the idea."
	Bro. Kimball observed that the reason of
Bro. R——'s resignation was that he had a
"calf" in the east, and that was hitched to
$1,500, and he wanted to go back and get it, and
take his family with him, because he is dis-
couraged, etc.; and he (Bro. Kimball) wants to
have the brethren hang on to him by the
prayer of faith. He proposed that we all, with
Father Cutler, bow down before the Lord—
touching the case of Bro. R—that he may be
tied up in his designs to go east and take his
family with him, which was accordingly done,
and the meeting was dismissed.


[first column]﻿
		CORRESPONDENCE.
		Pima, Arizona, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	I thought that I would write a few lines to
your little paper, thinking that it might be of
interest to some of my old friends that I have
not seen for a long time.
	I am living on the Gila River, in the far
south.  This is a lovely climate and the peo-
ple are doing well, and the most of them are
striving to live their religion.  The Relief So-
ciety, Mutual and Primary are in a flourishing
condition, and we have a good Sunday and
day school.  There are about one hundred
families in this ward, and there is room for a
great many more.
	Of course we are persecuted by our enemies
for the Gospel’s sake, and some that are keep-
ing the commandments of Go I have had to
leave their homes and cross the line;but we feel
to say, “God forgive them, for they know not
what they do.”
	The health of the people is good, and we
look for a good harvest this year.  The flowers
are in bloom and the fields look green and
everything is flourishing.
[second column]
Hoping, that through these few lines in your
paper, I may hear from some of my old friends,
that I often think have forgotten me, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					AGNES CROOKSTON.

		PITTSBURG,, Pa., March 12, 1885.
DEAR SISTER;
	I had intended writing sooner, but while
reading of the persecuting of the Saints it has
borne very heavily upon my mind, and I did
not feel like writing.
	The encroachment scheme is made a power-
ful engine for the destruction of happy homes.
When reading of the image set up to worship
by Nebuchadnezzar, and the people compelled
to worship the image, I wondered if Nebuchad-
nezzar came from Vermont with his encroach-
ment law.  Those who would not worship the
image had to suffer.  What are true-hearted
and loyal Saints placed within a felon’s cell for
to-day? The sequel will answer.  Do not good
men, holding the Holy Priesthood, leave their
peaceful, happy homes, their lovmg wives and
children to lift their warning voice of the im-
pending judgments that hang perpendicular
over the nations, and pointing out a way of
escape; and what follows then? We find, often,
that soon there is a Reverend, a live-blood-
hound, on his track with a mob, to slay him;
and he has to hide and run, sleeping in barns,
or hay mows, or anywhere he can. 	*     *
What tongue can tell the condition the Elders
are placed in while on their heavenly missions!
While I have been meditating on these matters
of late it has weighed very heavy on me; I
could not feel happy when men who are as good
as I, and having all the feelings of a true phil-
antrophist, who know what home, wife and
children are worth, and lay all aside to obey
the mandate of heaven, in the face of persecu-
tion, mobs, fires, swords, bayonets, shot guns,
cold-blooded, cruel, inhuman butchery and
death for the Gospel’s sake.
	How with those at home—those who are
loyal to the Constitution—dragged from their
homes and thrust into a gloomy cell; their
money taken from them without an equivalent
given for the same; and what for?  They don’t
want to worship the image Nebuchadnezzar
has set up, while wives and tender children
have the arm that was their protector and pro-
vider taken away from them and left to need
the comforts of life. What wrong have the
wife and children done that they must suffer?
Do they not suffer in the wrong, or is it justice
to punish innocence?' Surely not.  Do not
these things cry aloud for vengeance?  Has not
the cry of persecution reached the throne?
	The condition of affairs now practiced on
the Saints will merit the sovereign condemna-
tion of every honest man.  Sacrifice and obe-
dience bring forth honor and immortality.
My prayers are for suffering Zion.  I feel my
happiest hours would be to visit my suffering
brethren, and talk with, and try to comfort
them in a felon’s cell.
	May God bless their loyal hearts; ’tis no dis-
grace to be placed there for a righteous cause,
were it not for their sorrowing families, who
are left without a protector, which will harrow
their feelings more than tongue can tell.  I do
pray that the dark clouds may soon pass away,
and those who have taken another lesson in the
school of experience may profit by the same,
and listen to those who hold the Holy Priest-
hood. 		*	*	*	*	*	
						H. M. W.


Errata.—In the last number of the paper,
in the Autobiography of Mrs. Emily D. P.
Young, in the second paragraph of the letter
of W. W. Phelps,the sentence fired their guns,
should have been fixed their guns.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GOLD OF HOPE.

Bright shines the sun, but brighter after rain;
	The clouds that darken make the sky more clear;
So rest is sweeter when it follows pain,
	And the sad parting makes our friends more dear.

'Tis well it should be thus: our Father knows
	The things that work together for our good;
We draw a sweetness from our bitter woes—
	We would not have all sunshine if we could.

The days with all their beauty and their light
	Come from the dark and into dark return;
Day speaks of earth, but heaven shines through the
		night,
	Where in the blue a thousand star-fires burn.

So runs the law, the law of recompense,
	That binds our life on earth and heaven in one;
Faith cannot live when all is sight and sense,
	But faith can live and sing when these are gone.

We grieve and murmur, for we can but see
	The single thread that flies in silence by;
When if we only saw the things to be,
	Our lips would breathe a song and not a sigh.

Wait then, my soul, and edge the darkening cloud
	With the bright gold that hope can always lend;
And if to-day thou art with sorrow bowed,
	Wait till to-morrow and thy grief shall end!

And when we reach the limit of our days,
	Beyond the reach of shadows and of night,
Then shall our every look and voice be praise
	To him who shines, our everlasting light.

		HENRY BURTON.
	Sunday Magazine.


[Column 1]

SOME SOCIAL RELATIONS OF
WOMAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Taking it for granted that observations and
reflections respecting the social and moral atti-
tudes of the women of the world will not be
unacceptable from a Mormon boy, who has
ventured into the world to promulgate the
Gospel in pursuance to a call to fulfill a mis-
sion abroad, I feel free to express my views, and
give my reasons for their existence.
	Born and raised in the valleys of Zion, and
as a consequence accustomed to the marital
relations of God's people, I often wondered
how it was possible for the world to infute such
impure motives to my father and mother who
had ever been cautious to teach me the princi-
ples of strictest virtue and integrity. Besides
the authorities, whose recitude and virtue I
knew from my earliest boyhood was impeach-
able, had been denominated lecherous, because
of their family relations. I had read of the
wickedness of the women of the world, and
when defending our marriage system at home,
by comparing situations, I have been frequent-
ly told that I must not believe all I read or
heard, but that when I traveled abroad my
opinions would entirely change.
	The opportunity came, and true my opinions
are somewhat modified, but only to increase
my contempt for those who cry out against my
people.
	At New York I felt somewhat anxious to
make inquiries, for the purpose of learning the
moral status of that city. To a publisher of
wide reputation I remarked, That after rend-
ing such books as the "Secrets of the Great
City," I did not see or hear anything in them
that would offend the most aesthetic individual.
With a good natured smile he wanted to know
how I had been occupying myself in the city,
and remarked that I must go "slumming."
I had never heard the word, or had forgotten it
on further inquiry I learned that it was a fa-
vorite pastime with many to take a guide and
visit at night the slums of the metropolis and
miserable dens of iniquity to be found in
Water St. and other places of carousal. The
gentleman further informed me that sin, in

[Column 2]

New York was so well regulated that no one
needed to be shocked by immoral women; peo-
ple could go where these evils were or stay
away and be perfectly retired.
	Not being able to reconcile myself to such a
course, I sought to visit Blackwell's Island,
notorious for its correctional institutions. Se-
curing a letter of introduction, which enabled
me to acquire reliable information, I set out
for the ferry boat. There were on the boat
sixteen female prisoners. It was the third
boat load, and that morning fifty-five female
prisoners had been conveyed to the house of
correction. The conduct of the officer toward
them, two in particular, somewhat aroused my
sympathies, and I ventured to inquire the rea-
son for such severe discipline. He told me then
that a depraved woman was far more vicious
and more treacherous than a depraved man,
and that his experience had taught him to be
somewhat severe toward them.
	The picture to me was a horrid one, and I
have not enough morbid curiosity to ever want
to see another such. There were in the institu-
tion at the time about eight hundred. The
officer I met on the island was very courteous,
and escorted me through the hospital, where I
beheld the most pitiable objects human concep-
tion is capable of producing. Here I procured
lengthy statistics; so far as they were obtainable
by the board, and as they are at present not
materially different from those published by
Dr. Sanger in his "History of Prostitutes," I
will not quote them here. The doctor re-
marked that 30,000 prostitutes swarmed the
cities of New York and Brooklyn, and the
modified forms of prostitution have sent their
ranifications into the very heart of society. "I
suppose," I remarked, "you could not find a
thousand men in these two cities but what look
upon such a condition of society with perfect
horror, and would be willing to vote for the
banishment of every such woman from the
state." "No doubt," replied the Dr. good na-
turally, "the men are very innocent in the
matter, but I am afraid if the question came
up for a vote it would be laid on the table.
Still there seems to be a growing feeling for
the necessity of such institutions, and more or
less advocacy for their existence under proper
regulations." The moral conditions of woman
have, in past ages of history, been taken as a
social thermometer to determine the virtuous
temperature of society, in which man figures
as an airy, invisible, innocent creature. Con-
tinuing the conversation further, I remarked,
"Of course such conditions and institutions
among women are the best indications we have
of social and family disintegration." "No,"
replied the Dr., "they are of course great in-
dications, but social disintegration in general
and family disintegration in particular, are
best indicated in the tendency to prevent and
destroy offspring. Such conduct is unnatural,
and consequently impure. The physical na-
ture is perverted, and the moral, of course,
must correspond. With these material condi-
tions, unnatural as we know them to be, so
sensitively connecting the moral senses, it is
evident that a new moral code must spring up,
and people's notions of purity, virtue and
aesthetics may, in the next generation, present
an entirely new phase. As long as the laws of
nature are treated as vulgarities, and vulgari-
ties as virtue it is evident that the two must
change their base of operation, and whither
such tactics will drive us, heaven only knows."
	These remarks were impressed more firmly
upon my mind when, in company with an En-
glish gentleman and lady, on our way to Mt.
Vernon. English and American patriots was
the topic of conversation. The lady affirmed
that England never had a better monarch than
Victoria, but that the vulgarity she exhibited
in such a multitude of children was a standing
disgrace to the English people.

[Column 3]

	I could have tumbled into the river, but I
reached England, only to hear the same views
expressed time and again. There is nothing
more certain than that the conception of
morals, as expressed by the Latter-day Saints
and the world are diametrically opposed. To
integrate with the world we not only need to
throw away our marriage system, but throw
away our whole religion. When I have heard
men advocate certain immoral conduct, or de-
fend impure systems, I have often thought of
the anecdote of George Francis Train. He
said he had been educated and brought up by
his grandmother, and that she had taught him
to be strictly truthful and honest; but when he
came to America and saw how American Con-
gressmen did things, he began to wonder if
"grana" hadn't cheated him.
	The fathers and mothers are not cheating
the sons and daughters of Zion, and whatever
the world may say, they would better accept the
wise counsel and moral teaching of their pa-
rents.	J. M. T.


ST. GEORGE.

	St. George, at this season of the year, pre-
sents a most charming appearance. Let us
stand on an eminence and look down upon it,
that we may fully admire and enjoy the beauti-
ful scene, which is embraced by the warm,
balmy air and bright sunshine of an early
spring day.	
	There lies the little town—not so very small,
either—nestled among the rugged, red sand-
stone and black volcanic hills. The most strik-
ing object of interest is that sacred edifice, the
Temple,whose pure,white walls are such a strik-
ing contrast to the red soil which surrounds it.
Then there is our Tabernacle—built of red
sandstone, beautifully finished and furnished,
surrounded by a white picket fence, which en-
closes a well kept garden of various kinds of
trees, shrubs, flowers and lucern beds.
	Next comes our court house, stores, etc., and
many neat, fine looking, substantial dwellings,
which would do credit to a larger city. There
are the broad streets, whose sidewalks are de-
fined by a stream of running water, fringed on
either side with fresh green grass and a row of
shade trees, cottonwoods predominating.
	Spread out before us is the newly planted
gardens, laid out in straight rows ready for ir-
rigating, with here and there a fresh green
patch of lucern, and the early vegetables look-
ing temptingly suggestive of future feasts.
	The pears and plum trees have put forth
their delicate white blossoms, and the apple,
peach and almond have put on their gayer
garments of pink of different shades; the sweet
scented lilacs, with their wealth of bloom, and
even the lovely currant bush, modestly opening
its tiny yellow petals, as if doubtful of receiv-
ing any notice among so many gay compan-
ions.
	What a beautiful spot to be found in such
a wild, uninviting country, telling in the most
emphatic language of the patience, persever-
ance and industry of its inhabitants, and
above all, of the blessings of God upon their
labors. Showing what the united faith and
works of the Latter-day Saints can accomplish,
and this is but one of many of our thriving
cities and towns in Utah and elsewhere.
	Truly this mission seems to be to beautify,
adorn and redeem the waste places, as well as
to labor for the salvation of their fellow men.
	MARGUERITE.


Ristori, the celebrated Italian actress, visited
our city last week and played Elizabeth of
England and Mary Queen of Scotts. She still
possesses a wonderful power of fascination
over her audiences, holding them as though
spell bound. To see her once is to remember
her always.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
everyday, except Sunday.
	Address alll business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

APRIL CONFERENCE IN LOGAN.

	Another General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ has been held; this last time in
Logan, Cache County, where a holy temple has
been erected and dedicated to the Most High.
It seems perfectly proper that the great body of
the Saints should convene there in a general as-
sembly at such a time. In the absence of the
First Presidency of the Church, Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards presided over the Conference.
The meetings were crowded, large numbers of
people having come from various parts of the
country to attend. The speakers were earnest
and eloquent in their appeals to the people to
live their religion, to trust in God, to maintain
their integrity and work righteousness, to sus-
tain home manufactures and industries and
build up Zion instead of her enemies. A good
degree of the Spirit of the Lord was manifest
through the several days of the Conference.
	During the Conference an Epistle from the
First Presidency of the Church was read, in
which these brethren presented, in strong and
and forcible language, the wrongs under which
this people are suffering at the present time, and
the only safe path to pursue to obtain the
promises held out to the faithful.
	After the Epistle, which seemed to include
and embrace every point in which the people at
the present time are so deeply interested, had
been read, Apostle H. J. Grant offered the follow-
ing resolution:
	"In view of the statement in the Epistle that
we have heard read, that the proportion of the
male members of our Church who are living in
the practice of plural marriage is but little, if
any, more than two percent of the entire mem-
bership of the Church, and the injustice done
to the great majority of this community by the
action of the Federal officials, I move that a
committee be appointed by this Conference to
draft a series of resolutions, and a protest to the
President of the United States, and to the na-
tion, in which the wrongs the people of this
Territory have suffered and are still suffering,
from the tyrannical conduct of Federal officials
shall be set forth specifically and in detail, and
asking in respectful language for the same treat-
ment to which other citizens of the United
States are entitled, and report the same to a
mass meeting which shall be hereafter called."
	The resolution was unanimously adopted, and
the following named persons were nominated by
the President of the Conference to compose the
committee: John T. Caine, Wm. Jennings,
Feram[--]z Little, James Sharp, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Orson F. Whitney, John Q.
Cannon, J. F. Wells, Chas. O. Card, Abram
Hatch, Wm. W. Cluff, Willard G. Smith, Lewis
W. Shurtliff, Oliver G. Snow, Thomas G. Web-
ber, Franklin S. Richards, Samuel R. Thnr[---]an,

[Column 2]

Joel Grover, Rees R. Liewellyn, B. H. Roberts
Joseph Kimball.
	The committee have since held a meeting and
sub-committees there appointed are now pre-
paring the resolutions in view of presenting
them to the people in the mass meeting, which
will be called in due time. 
	This seems to be a timely step, for unless
some specific measures are taken to present the
grievances of the people in a proper light to the
President and people of the nation, nothing can
be expected in view of the misrepresentations
and burden of evil and false statements made
by those whose sole occupation seems to be to
traduce, vilify and temporally destroy those who
have striven to build up the waste places and
protect all in their rights and in the enjoyment
of that freedom so dear to all who are entitled
to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Constitutional Convention met as per
adjournment on the 7th inst., in the City Hall
and adjourned without transacting any business, 
until the evening of October 7th, at the same
place.  
	THOUGHTS, Y. L. Conference of Cache Stake, 
Woman's Voice, E. H. B., The Primary and Y. 
L. Conference, Juab Stake, Notes and Comments
after reading the Life of George Eliot, Notes
from Riverdale and other matter, all gladly ac-
cepted, and will appear in due time. 
	THE recent variety entertainments in the
Theatre, for the benefit of the Deseret Hospital, 
proved not only very enjoyable, but quite suc-
cessful. The nett proceeds exceeded three hun-
dred dollars. The Unity Club took charge of
the lunch stand, and managed that part of the
affair admirably. 
	THE announcement of Dr. Maggie C Shipp's 
class in obstetrics appears in this number of
our paper, and in regard to the matter we are
pleased to say that as a lecturer and teacher she
possesses the necessary adaptability as well as
the education essential to the performance of the
duty. She graduated from the Woman's College
in Philadelphia as physician and surgeon, and is
well posted in matters relating to the subjects
she proposes to teach. Since returning home
she has spent the greater part of her time in
teaching in the country, giving lectures and
practicing as opportunity offered. She intends
now to remain in the city, where she will teach, 
lecture and practice in the profession she has
chosen, and for which she seems specially well
adapted. Her lectures here in the city are very
highly spoken of by those who have listened to
her.  As there is great need of able help in this
field of woman's usefulness, we hope and trust
the sisters in the country, as well as here at
home, will avil themselves of the very liberal
terms offered by Dr. Shipp, and prepare them-
selves to fill positions of trust in various parts of
the country, where competent and skillful prac-
titioners are so much needed. Any additional
particulars may be obtained by letter if directed
to her residence as published in the advertise-
ment.


A REIGN OF PEACE.
	I would ask, Why did we settle in these val-
leys?  Why, as a people, did we ever gather to-
gether and make a settlement anywhere?  I will
answer, It was because we believed there would
be a reign of peace on the earth.
	This peace would be accomplished when all
could see and understand our Savior's mission.
This they will learn by doing His will.  Did not
He say to the Jews, "How oft would I have
gathered you together as a hen gathereth her
chickens under her wings, but ye would not.'
Accordingly you see that none are compelled to
come, but have their agency to act as they
please.
	Again, other reasons are, when the message
caome to prepare for His second coming to earth,
some saw the propriety of this preparation, and
others did not.  Those who did not despised
those who did, and thought us lowilved, con-
tenptibe beings; cried, "False prophet," eetc.,
etc, :Away with them out of the land."  Ac-
cordingly we were glad to settle together, that
we might strengthen each other by our faith in
living more perfectly to the laws of God.  All
the sects believe in part, and are so proud of the
little they cling to, and the attainments they
have arrived at in the arts and sciences, that
they are not humble and cannot give room in
their hearts for the Spirit of God to make them
pleasing in His sight; while many doubt that
there is a God.  They have no time to think of
this; they are so anxious to arrive at the pinnacle
of fame in some grand pursuit.
	But what did the Savior say-"Father, I thank
thee that thou hast hidden these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them
unto babes.  Even so, Father, for so it seemeth
good in Thy sight."
	We find in all the churches of Christendom
some sincere believers in Christ.  Such will
eventually believe the teachings given in
Matthew v, vi, vii, and believe in applying our
minds to this law, which will prepare us for a
reign of peace on the earth.  Nor is this all, for
it is here written that not one jot or tittle of the
prophecie shall fail.  What have the people to
fear from those who live to these rules and for
this purpose?  But they talk as the wolf did, in
the fable, to the lamb; asking, "How dare you
drink at the stream while I drink?"  The lamb
replied, "The water runs from you down to me,
so I could not roll the stream."  But how many
roll the stream for us? They say there are fam-
ily broils that ought not to exist.  Well, why do
they exist?  It is because they lack the good
spirit they covenant to obey.  They have not
learned their lesson perfectly, which is,"Blessed
are the pure in heart, for they shall see God;
blessed are the peace makers, for they shall be
called the children of God;blessed are the meek,
for they shall inherit the earth;blessed are they
which hunger and thirst after righteousness, for
they shall be filled."
	In keeping these laws in good faith, we feel
benefitted by them.  But are Mormons the only
ones who have family brolls? I think ours are
few in comparison to the mass of the human
family.  Those will disappear as fast as we be-
come Saints, and live by faith.  It is written
"the just shall live by faith"  It is also said that
faith is a gift from God.  Who will He bestow
this gift upon?  Only the just and upright.
None other need apply; until they make up
their minds to be just and true; with the opposite
class God is not pleased, because He could not
bring to pass a reign of peace with such instru-
ments.
	But you ask, If God is your friend why does
He permit you to be so often afflicted by your
enemies?  The only reason I can see is because
we are so dilatory in learning our lessons.  He
has blessed us with this world's goods to a great
extent, taking all things into consideration, and
we are so well pleased and gratified that we
spend too much time in arranging, and almost
worhsip them instead of the giver.
	I think the government can testify that we
have been no disadvantage to them.  How much
we have given into the treasury they very well
know, which has been the result of our prosperi-
ty; and in return have not we been careful to 
ask their permission in any important move we


have made while in times of peace.  When
leaving Nauvoo a letter was sent to the governor
of Iowa, asking permission to pass through their
country, and also to permit those who had not
provisions to stop and earn means to go further.
This you will read, letter and all, in Professor
Tullidge's writings, called Brigham Young's
History, or the Pioneers of Utah.  Also the ac-
count of Bro. Jesse C Little, who want to 
Washington, asking the President's permission
to settle in the far west, or valleys of the moun-
tains.  This was granted by testing us in send-
ing five hundred volunteers to the Mexican war.
The government was good in appointing Prest.
Young to govern our people, and many time in
changing our officers.  Government has no
time or dispositon to look after any one's re-
ligion, but they must maintain morality and
good order.
	This being our motto also, I expect all will be
right when we are perfectly understood by the
rulers of the nation.  I believe they want to do
right by all under their care.  Is not this coun-
try called the asylum for the oppressed?  It has
been, and always will be if they will govern by
our Savior's golden rule; but the preachers of
the sects see their craft is in danger, and fear to
investigate true principles.  Did they know the
result they would fear no danger.  They will
see the day when they will be willing to have a 
reign of peace on the earth; and all who love the
truth will help to make it too.
						M.E. KIMBALL.
March 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRUE POSITION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel to say, as Paul did, I cannot hold my
peace any longer, but must express my feelings
in regard to this unholy crusade, which is being
inaugurated against this people, or I shall burst
with indignations.
	It seems a difficult matter to exercise the
patience and forbearance that should mark the
conduct of a Saint of God, when they see fam-
ilies torn asunder, faithful, honest, God-fearing
men driven from their homes, leaving helpless
familes, in a great many instances, with no ap-
parent means of providing for themselves, de-
pendent upon the charity of those who are for-
tunate enough, thus far, to escape the shafts of
the enemy.  
	This spirit is particularly pointed at our little
berg at the present time.  Marshals and their
deputies are on the war path serving subpoenas
for the polygamists' trials, which are to come off
at the next term of court, which convenes the
6th of April. Now, to appear before these
courts is not a very desirable position to be
placed in, consequently there are games of hide
and seek being carried on pretty extensively,
and it is not often the seeker finds-they fall in
a great many instances.
	Among those who are the most prominent
and malicious of our persecutors is one Riley
Morse from Filmore an apostate, who is pre-
paring himself to be a son of perdition.
	Some of his relatives are faithful Latter-day
Saints, who are deeply grieved and mortified at
the course he is pursuing.  He seems well
posted in the history of every family in the
place; also who would be the most competent
wilnesses, etc.  He has succeeded in breaking
up his niece's family, causing her husband to
flee from his home, leaving her with a family of
four helpless little ones on her hands, without
any means for support, as he was dependent on
his trade (plastering) for support.  And this is
the condition of affair throughout Utah, if re-
ports are true.
	What a record our persecutors will have to
[---]
meet at the judgment seat of God, when they
will be brought to face the record of the deeds
done in the body.  I often wonder if they ever
think of this, but I suppose they are so blinded
by the evil one that they never consider the
consequence of their wicked acts; but there is  a
God in heaven, and they will then realize to
their sorrow the terrib;e consequences of fight-
ing against God, and against a God fearing po-
ple, who are striving to carry out the commands
[--] Jehovah.  For this we are persecuted; for
this the peace and happiness of the family circle
is broken up and destroyed; for this God fearing,
upright, conscientious men are obliged to leave
their homes and helpless families, or suffer the
alternative of going behind prison bars.  Wives
are forced to appear before courts to testify
against their husbands, children against their
parents, and all for exercising their constiution-
al rights, which guarantees protection to every
person in the exercise of their religion.  But can
we afford to forsake any one principle of our
holy religion?  No; God forbid.  Come life, come
death, let us be firm and steadfast, and cling to
every principle revealed by the God of heaven
for the guidance of His Saints, to prepare them
to meet the Savior.  
	Then let us be true to our brethren and sisters,
true to our religion, and above everything let us
be true to our God, and then He will not forsake
His Saints.  The Lord has said, in one of His
revelations to the Prophet Joseph, "Cursed is
he who lifts his heel against mine anointed, and
shall say he has sinned, when he has not sinned, 
but is obeying my commandment, which I have
commanded him to perform."
						S. M. POMEROY. 
	Mesa City, March 29th, 1885.


A PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
				[line break]
	On the 4th of March the Primary Associa-
tion of the 5th Ward presented a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the meeting house,
the proceeds of which are to be used for the
benefit of the Association, in purchasing books,
material for work, etc. The programme was
quite extended, and the principal pieces were
rendered by the children themselves. Selections
by the Mutual Glee Club and Tonic Sol-Fa Sing-
ing class, who kindly volunteered their assist-
ance on the occasion made a very pleasing va-
riety in the exercises. The songs and choruses
by the children were given in excellent time,
and with a brightness and crispness that was
especially noticeable, while the recitations by
the little ones deservedly received hearty ap-
plause.
	When all did so well it would seem almost im-
possible to make any distinction, but es-
pecial mention certainly ought to be made of
the dialogue, “The Deacons" by Archie Bu-
chanan and Roy Palmer, the spirit and render-
ing of which were as near perfection as possible,
and also of the "Peek-a boo” song of Effie Palmer,
a tiny miss of four years of age, whose cuteness
gained her a hearty encore. After the musical
portion of the programme was concluded a Fairy
Drama was presented, with Miss Lottie Self as
the Fairy Queenl; Miss Lizzie Palmer, the Genii;
Miss B. Ricketts, the Earth Child and Misses
E. Miller, E. Durrans, Jones, Marsden and
Appleby, as Fairies. The costumes were ap-
propriate and pretty, and the dance of the
fairies at the close with colored lights was as
lovely a scene as any one would wish to wit-
ness.
	The meeting house was crowded, and every
piece was heartily applauded, while a unani-
mous request for a repetition of the entertain-
ment showed the sincere appreciation of the au-
dience.


On the 18th of March the entertainment was
repeated, with a few unimportant changes in
the programme, another large audience greeting
the second appearance of the little ones. It is
very pleasing to see the talents of the children
utilized in this direction, and too much praise
cannot be given to the officers of the Associa-
tion, President E. Clark and her Counselors, to
whose persevering and untiring efforts the suc-
cess of the entertainment is due.
							E. B. F.


AN OVATION.
	A meeting of the -Young -Ladies’ and Primary
Associations of Juab; Stake convened in the
Nephi Relief Hall, March 23rd, 1885. The hall
was crowded, there baing representatives and
others present from the branch associations of
the stake.
	The gathering was in honor of Sister Hannah
Grover' sixty second birthday; also to express
the appreciation and gratitude for her labors, for
Sister Grover has been connected with the presi-
dency of the Y. L. and Primaries for a period of
ten years, being placed to act as superintendent
for the Y. L. at its first organization by Sister
Eliza, after which she was called to act as Stake
President over the Primaries, and acting at the
same time as First Counselor to the Stake Presi-
dent of Y. L. M I. A.
	The meeting commenced by singing. Prayer
was offered by Sister Grover. Singing. Prest.
M. A. Caz er mtde the opening remarks,followed
by an address from Prest. M. E. Teasdale, who,
In behalf of the Y. L. and Primaries, presented
Sister Grover with two beautiful presents, a
photograph aud autograph album. She ex-
pressed the regrets felt by all in having to part
with Sister Grover, for she had won the respect
and esteem of all with whom she ahd been asso-
ciated,
	Sister Grover was much affected when she
arose to -thank her friends for their tokens of
remembrance and regard shown her.
	The remaining time was occupied by short ad-
dresses from the ladies, and songs, and recitations
principally from the children. This enjoyable
meeting was closed by singing "Love at Home."
Benediction by M. E. Teasdale.
						L. A. CAZIER.


A HAPPY PARTY.
			       -----
   As the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. is in-
intending to leave the Eighth Ward, the officers
and members gave her a pleasant surprise, Fri-
day evening, April 3rd, in the meeting house of
that Ward.  It was in the form of a picnic and
meeting.  After meeting the Secretary present-
ed her with a nice center table and handsome
cover, in behalf of the Association, showing
how her actions have endeared her to us.  We
all feel sorry to lose our President.  As it was a
complete surprise to her, she could only ex-
press her thanks and good wishes.
    Our Association being in a very good condition
we intend to hold our meetings regularly until
we have another President chosen.  We meet
every week.
			S. H. HAWKINS, Secretary.


A GENTILE JOURNALIST.
				  ------
MRS. H. M. WHITNEY:
   Yours of the 13th, the papers, etc, at hand. I
deemed your letter of sufficient interest to
warrant publication, and therefore sent it to
Colonol C. T. Nixon, the editor of one of our
popular journals, and it will appear  week. I
trust the act will meet your approbation.
  I am now in an adjoining county, but will re-


turn home in a few days, and will write you at
greater length, and perhaps refer briefly to the
marked articles in the News and Herald. Any
papers or written messages from you will always
receive due attention, and will be used in the in-
terest of your people, who seem, just at this
time, to need the sympathy and assistance of
every person who possesses any conception of
honor and justice.  I am heartily disgusted at
the cruel and unjust course of our Government
towards the Mormons, and I should always op-
pose it to the bitter end.
			In haste, your friend,
							W. H. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿------------------------------
		MRS. HARRIET GRAY.
			     -------
   The following interesting death notice and
obituary appeared in the P[-]terboro paper, and
we republish it in honor of the aged sister, and
for the sake of her many friends who reside in
Utah.
   In July, 1871, being then 82 years of age, she
paid a visit to Salt Lake City, Utah, and accom-
plished a work for her dead in the house of the
Lord, which she had been very desirous to do
for many years.  On the occasion of her "depart-
ure from Zion," a messenger handed her a poem
in manuscript from the pen of the “Mormon
Poetess,” which was afterwars published at the
request of many friends, in the Pe'erboro,(N. H.
Transcript.) Sister Eliza R Snow, the author,
published it afterwards in her second volume of
poems, and we reproduce it below here, as it
seems very appropriate in connection with the
notice of her demise. —ED. 
   "In this town, January 23, Mrs Harriet Gray, aged 92
years, 5 months and 29 days.”  
				OBITUARY.
				   ---------
   “Yesterday afternoon, at 2 30 o’lock, Mrs. Harriet
Gray, universally known as "Aunt Harriet," died at her
residence on Concord Street, at the ripe old age of 92
years and a half.  Until within a year past, she has al-
ways enjoyed very good health, and retained her mental
faculties to a remarkable degree.  Five months ago she
had a shock of paralysis, from which time she failed
rapidly, and during the last six days of her life was
totally unconscious.  Mrs. Gray was a native and life
long resident of the town.  She was a daughter of the
late Hon. John Scott, and one of a family of nine child-
ren, one of whom, Mrs. Nancy Cobb of Hancock, is still
living.  In 1811 she married William Gray, by whom
she had eleven children.  Four daughters and two sons
survive her, and all but one son were present and minis-
tered to her wants during her last illness.  A few weeks
since, daughters, granddaughters, a great-granddaughter,
and a great-great-granddaughter stood by her bedside—
five generations being thus represented.
   For many years she lived upon the farm now owned
and occupied by her son, James S. Gray, where all her
children were born.  When the youngest child was
two years old, the family removed to the village, where
by untiring industry Aunt Harriet succeeded in lifting
a mortgage from the farm and accumulating a few hun-
dred dollars, after she had reached an age when people
are generally supposed to retire from the active duties
of life.
   Although differing in her religious belief from the
faith commonly held in New England, her upright and
unselfish life was proof that she was actuated by a true
Christian spirit, and the zeal and fidelity with which
she performed her life work are worthy of emulation by
all who know her.
   Funeral from the house tomorrow (Friday) afternoon,
at 1.30 o’clock.”
				   ---------
	"Fare you well, beloved mother:—
	   While your homeward way you wend,
	God, our Father, will protect you
	   Safe from dangers that impend.

	Fare you well, much honored lady,
	   Go in peace and be you blest;
	In the far off East remember
	   Those who loved you in the West.

	In the valleys of the mountains,
	   Hearts to God and country true,


Will, in holiest bonds of friendship
Known on earth, remember you.
When you've filled your earthly mission,
And resign your "dust to dust,”
You will have “abundant entrance
Into mansions of the just."


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		EASTER ARIZONA.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, the Young Ladies and Primary Associa-
tions was held at Snowflake, March 6th, 1885,
President Emma S. Smith presiding. After
the usual opening exercises the minutes of the
last quarterly conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports were
read, which showed the condition of the
branches to be very good. The verbal reports
of the presidents of the several societies were
very satisfactory, and showed much good had
been accomplished by the sisters during the
quarter.
	Sister Emily Lewis felt we were blessed in
meeting together, and said, The persecution we
are receiving is in fulfillment of prophecy.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake felt desirous to work
for the advancement of the kingdom of God.
	Coun. Lois Hunt said she felt well satisfied
with everything that had been said and done
during the conference. and in her usual cheer-
ful manner felt to bless all the societies,
	Financial and verbal reports of the Young
Ladies and Primary Associations were then
given in, showing both to be progressing rapid-
ly in the great work.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith felt well pleased with
the reports of the different wards, and gave
some instructions to the secretaries in regard
to making out reports. Said the persecutions
the Saints recieve will tend to make them live
their religion better. The mothers in Israel
should teach their children to pray as soon as
they are old enough to talk. Hoped we would
live so as to merit the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by Albert Minnerly.
		Della Fish, Stake Secretary.
		St. George Stake.
	The Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association held their
quarterly conference at the Lyceum,St. George,
on the 13th inst., and all felt it to be a time of
rejoicing. The hall was well filled, and the
reports from all the settlements in the stake
were most encouraging. The sisters appear to
be waking up to a sense of their duty, and a
greater union exists between them than in times
past; also a deeper interest is felt in each
other's welfare, and a desire to obey those
principles which have been revealed from the
heavens.
	Words of instruction and counsel were give
by the brethren and sisters who presided, which
we will do well to remember. It was asked
that those sisters in the meeting who were liv-
ing in obedience to the law of the celestial mar-
riage, and also those who were at present not
in  position to practice it, but who honored it
in their hearts, would rise to their feet. Im-
mediatley every sister in the house rose, thus
manifesting their faith in that divine revela-
tion.
	During the last quarter the Society has
been active, both in donating and in minister-
ing to the wants of the needy and the sick,and
the blessings of the Lord has followed their ad-
ministrations.
	The Primary Conference was held on the
14th. There was a good attendance. The
little choir sang sweetly, and the bright and
happy faces of the children showed plainly
that they took an interest in what was said to
them.
	May the Lord bless these Saints of His flock,
and expand their minds, that they may com-
prehend the principles of the Gospel which are
taught them, and also bless all the officers of
these associations with the spirit of their call-
ings, that they may be able to instruct them in
the ways of life and salvation.
			Your's respectfully,
		M. A. G. BAKER, Cor. Secretary.
			BOX ELDER STAKE
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake, held March 10th,
1885, in the Tabernacle of Brigham City,
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of previous conference, etc.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, It is hard times,
but so much more do we need to meet together
and exchange thoughts and feelings, to comfort
and build each other up. Encouraged the
sisters to make up useful and ornamental arti-
cles for the fair in June "We should make it
bright and cheerful around us; a happy, cheer-
ful disposition will overcome obstacles, where
one otherwise would droop and be overcome.
	Secretary Mary E. Snow read the reports
from the different wards for the last six
months.
	Sister Hubbard, Prest. of the Relief Society
of Willard, said, I am happy this morning for
the privilege to meet with my sisters. I often
think, for all the teachings we receive from
time to time, how much we need to learn yet.
When I reflect and contemplate on the many
blessings we have and still are enjoying, I feel
to lift my voice in praise to my Father in hea-
ven. Sisters, if we strive to be faithful we
shall be preserved. We go home refreshed
after hearing each other express our sentiments
in humility and faith. The sisters of Willard
are a faithful band of co-workers.
	Miss Fanny Graehl, Treasurer of Stake,
read the accounts for the last six months.
	Sister Terry, Prest. of Relief Society of
Three Mile Creek,said,"I am pleased to be here;
this year has been a peculiar one, both among
us and among the nations. Do we realize yet
all of our duties? We are bound to suffer if
these our sisters who have passed through
great trials and stood faithful. When we are
as well as in our spiritual afffairs, then the Lord
will fight our battles; but we never will be one
until we do. We have many widows in our
ward, and they are liberal with their dona-
tions."
	Sister Albertston, Prest, at Bear River City,
said she could not speak as fluently as the sis-
ters before her on account of the language.
"We have had much sickness in our place this
winter, and a great deal to think about; one
poor sister, in particular, has laid very low for
a long time. We are striving to do all the
good we can."
	Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. Minnie
J. Snow. "I have been thinking while looking
at the faces around me, I wonder how long we
will be permitted to meet in peace together.
Referred to the many who apostatized during
the former trials of the Saints. We who are
here in peace ought to be prayerful and remem-
ber those who are away from their homes."
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks. After singing,"The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," and benediction by Emilia
D. Madsen, conference adjourned until two
o'clock.
	Afternoon Session. After singing prayer
was offered by Sister Terry, Coun. Susannah
Booth, Prest. of Relief Society 1st Ward of
Brigham City, said, "I hope and trust we may
always have the privilege of meeting to-
gether to comfort and cheer each other. We
have the promise if we seek the Lord and live


near unto Him, He will aid and assist us.  There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
mothers, also as members of these associations.
Praised the Society of the 1st Ward, hoped we
might be able to set a good example before
each other and the world; never felt a stronger
desire than at the present time to press on-
ward and be faithful.
     Secretary M. E. Snow read the condensed
report of the Stake.
     Coun. Mary Stark, Prest 3rd Ward, Brigham
City:  "It is a difficult position to rise before
the elderly sisters of much experience.  Spoke
of the trials of those who strive to serve the
Lord.  Repeated the words of Brigham Young:
"Never teach your daughters against the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, better you had never
been born."  I think it the grandest principle
of our religion.  Encouraged home industry;
thought the reports from the different associa-
tions were wonderful, and a testimony of God's
favor and blessing upon this people."
     "Sister White, from Three Mile Creek:  I
never felt better in my life, never felt more
anxious to live my religion that at present.  I
cannot say I have no trials, I have a few, not
so many as some, but I sometimes think that
trials are good for us.
     Sister Dewey, Prest. of  Relief Society,
Deweyville, felt thankful that she was living
in this day and age, and for the knowledge
that the Lord will sustain us if we are true
and faithful, true to each other and to our-
selves.
     "Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. at Honeyville:
We live in a very important day; the Lord
wants a tried people.  In Honeyville we are
but few in number, but generally a good feel-
ing prevails; it requires an effort on our part
to serve the Lord and carry on this kingdom."
     Sister Keller, Prest. at Mantua:  "I feel will-
ing to do what I can; feel to be united with
those placed over me; consider it a duty to en-
courage and help each other."
     Emilia D. Madsen felt the great necessity of
trusting in the Lord, and praying for the
spirit of discernment, that we might compre-
hend the influences surrounding us.  Spoke of
the great responsibilities of mothers who are
raising a family in these latter days.
     Sister Watkins, Prest. of the 4th Ward,
Brigham City:  "I have been among the sick a
great deal lately; I feel that we should seek to
live near to the Lord daily.  We have  good
sisters in our ward."
     Sec. Mary E. Snow, Prest. of the 2nd Ward,
Brigham City, wished all the sisters to study
the circular, that the reports might be made
properly; believed it much easier for some to
speak than others.
     Patriarch Box:  I have listened with great
attention, and felt the good spirit.  Spoke of
the good results of these organizations; had
been acquainted with them from the beginning.
Those who have young boys should teach them
to honor the Priesthood; those who have a
right to teach.  Spoke of  hard times in
Nauvoo.
	Prest. Harriet Snow felt happy to see the in-
terest manifested in the sisters everywhere, to
live their religion.  May the Lord bless all the
sisters, be faithful and prayerful; never let fear
enter into our hearts; God is mightier than any
nation on earth.
     Singing, "Lord, when iniquities about."
Benediction by Father Box.  Conference ad-
journed for three months.
EMILIE D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

WEBER COUNTY.
     The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber County was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March 13th,
1885, Prest. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.  Sing-
ing, "Lord, we come before the now." Prayer by
Bishop McQuarrie. Singing, "Once more

[column 2]
we come before Thee."  Minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
     Prest. Herrick made opening remarks; said,
We do not know what position we may be
called upon to fill; then let us try to prepare
ourselves with useful knowledge.  We should
be charitable one with another, and try to do
good while we dwell on the earth.  Was pleased
to have Sisters Snow, Taylor and Tingey pres-
ent, etc., etc.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith was always pleased
to meet with the daughters of Zion.  When the
organization of these associations was given it
was by the spirit of prophecy, and was testified
to by those in authority.  Had watched their
growth and advancement ever since.  Wished
the young ladies could understand the position
they hold to-day, that they would prepare for
the positions of the future.  You stand at the
head of all the young ladies of the world,
placed there by God, and have been reserved
by Him to assist in the greatest work ever
given to mankind.  Improvement is our mott,
perfection our aim, and what course must we
take to gain perfection?  That which leads
downward?  No; but each one must form a
well balanced character, cultivate yourselves
mentally and physically to have a strong spirit
and a strong mind, for they cannot work in a
weak and sickly tabernacle.  The Lord says
go to bed early and rise early, that thy bodies
may be strengthened and invigorated, and
what God gives us we should regard.  Next
mental, moral and physical culture will consti-
tute us as near perfection as can be reached on
earth.  The spiritual should be above all, that
which communicates with God, and these consti-
tute a Latter-day Saint, etc.
     Coun. Tingey desired the Spirit of God, that
she might speak so that we would be mutually
benefited.  Gave many excellent and beneficial
instructions to the associations, exhorting the
young ladies to seek the ways of the Lord and
prepare themselves by study and thought that
they might understand the principles of the
Gospel, for it embraces all good.  Closed her
interesting remarks, asking God to help us to
grow up  a united fold in His kingdom.
     Prest. Taylor could see improvement by the
reports.  The organization of these associa-
tions have prompted many to study the princi-
ples of the Gospel.  This is a time when the
disciples of Christ are persecuted as they were
of old, which is a strong testimony of the
truth of the work, for God has said, "If ye are
of the world, the world will love you;" by this
we may know the end draweth nigh.  She
spoke of the privileges we enjoy, and said they
should be used with wisdom.  The paths of
God are paths of pleasantness; then let us per-
form the things of God that Satan may not
gain power over us.
     Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"How will the Saints rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Bro. Middleton.
     After noon session:  Opened by singing,
"Sweet is Thy work."  Prayer by Bro. J.
Stanford.  Singing, "The great and glorious
Gospel light."
     Prest. E. S. Taylor gave instructions to the
presidents concerning their duties, the way
they should conduct their exercises, and what
they should consist of.
     Coun. M. H. Tingey exhorted the young sis-
ters to sustain their presidents; to be diligent
in performing their exercises and in building
up the kingdom of God.
     Two of the associations were verbally re-
ported as being in a prosperous condition.  The
presidents made some excellent remarks, and
desired to do all they could to build up the
kingdom of God.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith gave some brief in-
structions to the secretaries, followed by some
excellent instructions concerning the writing
of essays, articles, etc., and closed her remark

[column 3]
by exhorting all to diligence in the perform-
ance of their duties.
     Sister Taylor presented the names of Sister
M. R. Burton to fill the vacancy of secretary,
and Sister E. M. Stanford as assistant.  These
sisters were unanimously sustained.
     Prest. Herrick referred to the resignations of
Coun. Josephine West and Secretary Rosalthe
Canfield, and in consequence of the faithful
discharge of their duties, had resolved to pre-
sent them with a token of respect.
     Resolutions of Respect to Mrs. Josephine
Richards West:
     Whereas, Our beloved sister, Josephine R.
West,has been called to preside over the Prim-
ary Associations of Weber Stake, which neces-
sarily demands her undivided attention andtime,
and desiring, as she does, to adapt herself more
fully to the capacity of the little ones, thus
making their meetings more interesting and
attractive, she has tendered her resignation as
Coun. to the Central Board of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and,
     Whereas, We feel to regret the loss of her
agreeable company and excellent counsel,
which ever tended to elevate the mind to noble
aims and laudable ambitions in life, still, we
feel to acknowledge the Divine wisdom in se-
lecting one so worthy, whose unblemished
character is well known throughout the coun-
ty, to preside over the all-important Primary
Associations, feeling that the loss of the present
young ladies will be the gain of the future
men and women, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That we tender unto our esteemed
sister our heart-felt thanks for the excellent
method she ever exhibited in leading the mind
on and on in the paths of purity and honor,
assuring her that this is but a faint echo of the
sentiments of the high regard in which she
is held, not only by the Board, but by the young
ladies of the associations.
     Resolved, That she has inspired nobler views
of life, and won the confidence and love of the
young ladies, who will follow her not only to
her home, but to her labors in the Primary As-
sociation, with their earnest prayers that God
will bestow His blessings still more abundantly
upon her, that she may be better able to direct
the little ones to Him, that they may grow up
bright and shining lights in Zion, and be a
people that He will delight to own and bless.
     Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the Ogden Herald and the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and that a copy be presented to
Mrs. West.
SARAH A. HERRICK,
RUTHINDA E. MONCH,
ELIZABETH T. STANFORD.

THE LITTLE ONES.

DEDICATED TO MRS. JOSEPHINE R. WEST,
BY RUTHINDA E. MONCH.

O, feed my lambs, the Savior said,
In ages past and gone,
To Peter, whom He dearly loved
And placed this trust upon;
Take care of them, the little ones,
And feed them day by day
On precious truths, eternal truths,
That none may go astray.
Yes, give them sips, refreshing sips,
From fountains from above,
And bind them to the laws of God
By silken cords of love;
Of such as these, the "little ones,"
The kingdom yet will be,
Around the throne of God they dwell
In peace and harmony;
The children then in robes so fair,
Or in their tattered gown
Were taken in His arms and blessed--
On none did Jesus frown.
His heart was filled with love for them,
And were they rich or poor,
The charge to Peter was the same--
To feed them ever more.


[Column 1]
And did the Savior of the world
Notice the children then?
Oh! yes, for well He knew the boys
Would shortly be the men;	
And were they trained in righteousness
Most noble ones they’d be,	
And Peter was the chosen one 	
To teach them purity,
Now thou art called as Peter was
The little ones to train
In paths of virtue, truth and love,
Thy mission's much the same.
So, sister, may the grace of God
Henceforth your work attend,	
That Zion’s youth may rise in power
And Zion’s cause defend, 
That when He comes on earth to reign 
He’ll find a noble band,
Worthy in thought; in word and deed
To stand at His right hand. 

   The following testimonial was presented to
Sister Rosalthe Canfield:			
		A TESTIMONIAL 
Of love and respect to Sister Rosalthe Canfield in
	behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Co.,
	March 13th, 1885.
<ae z="" l.="" m.="" la.="" bfimerlcz.="" f="" march="" izih,="" 1885.="" "="" dear="" sistep="" 1="" we="" desire="" to="" present="" you="" witli="" a="" slight="" tribute="" and="" testimonial="" of="" our="" love="" respect="" for="" you,="" appreciation="" your="" valu-="" able="" services="" the="" benefit="" building‘.up="" these="" associations,="" thauk="" cordially="" faithful="" labors="" in="" behalf,="" hoping="" trusting="" that="" good="" works="" enno-="" bling="" infllittlee="" may="" continue,that="" be'="" bright="" shining="" light="" through="" many="" future="" years="" happiness="" prosperity,="" pathway="" be="" strewn="" with="" blos-="" soms="" faith,="" hope,="" friendship="" aflection,="" will="" entwine="" fadeless="" wreath="" im-="" mortal="" flowers="" bloom="" forever,="" while="" pleasant="" memories="" past="" associations="" linger="" u3="" come,="" together="" hopes="" shall="" all="" meet="" glorious="" re?="" union,="" beyond="" shade's="" time;="" when.we="" see'as="" are="" seen,="" know="" as="" known,="" when="" mists="" obscure="" vision="" hero="" have="" rolled="" away="" beneath="" rays="" celestial="" [="" sun="" rise,="" it="" enfolds="" earth="" its="" radi-="" ant="" glory,whilo="" sweet="" echoes="" songs,="" praise="" from="" immortal="" lips="" float="" over="" happy'in-="" mates="" .a="" world="" redeemed.="" hay#="" labored="" well,="" 8hter,="" :="" cause="" jove="" truth,="" ...="" ,="" youhavo="" been="" brave="" enlister="">DEAR SISTER:
	We desire to present you with a slight
tribute and testimonial of our love and respect
for you, and of our appreciation of your valu-
able services for the benefit and building up of
these associations, and to thank you cordially
for your faithful labors in our behalf, hoping
and trusting that your good works and enno-
bling influence may continue,that you may be
a bright and shining light through many future
years of happiness and prosperity, and that
your pathway may be strewn with the blos-
soms of faith, hope, friendship and affection,
that will entwine in a fadeless wreath of im-
mortal flowers to bloom forever, while pleasant
memories of past associations will linger with
us in years to come, together with the bright
hopes that we shall all meet in a glorious re-
union beyond the shades of time; when we shall
see as we are seen, and know as we are known,
when the mists that obscure our vision her[-]
have rolled away beneath the rays of celestial
sun rise, when it enfolds the earth in its radi-
ant glory, while sweet echoes of songs of praise
from immortal lips float over the happy in-
mates of a world redeemed.
	
	You have labored well, dear sister,
		In the cause of love and truth,
	You have been a brave enlister
		To improve the minds of youth.

	Many years you’ve labored fruitful
		In the place you’ve now resigned,
	And your labors hav[-] been faithful,
		Bearing fruit each step you’ve climbed.

	[-]t were vain to wish you pleasure,
		Riches, beauty, fame of earth,
	God will meet you out your measure, 
		He will pay you for your worth.

	Diamonds, pearls and gold may glitter,
		Shedding beauty rich and rare;
	But pure gems of thought are fitter
		For God’s faithful ones to wear.

	We would wish thee all earth’s pleasures,
		All its beauty, wealth and dower,
	But we know for thee there’s treasures 
		Laid beyond man’s feeble power.

	Treasures to thy heart far dearer
		Than the richest earth can give,
	And thy labors draw thee nearer
		Every day white her[-] you live.

	Then we’ll but ask God to bless you
		With the crown you have won here—
	Of eternal wealth and honor,
		All the hopes you hold most dear.

	Still[-]progressing may you ever
		Keep in view the noble aim,		
	Ever trusting, doubting never,
		Till eternal rest you gain.

[Column 2]
	The retiring sisters were each presented with
a beautiful writing desk, and after a few very
interesting and instructsve remarks by Bro.
J. Stanford, Sister J. S. Richards and Prest.
Herrick, meeting was adjourned for three
months, Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Bro. W. G. Child.
		M. R. Burton, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW JOTTINGS FROM WEST
WEBER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Like other wards throughout this Territory
we have acted upon the wise couusels of our
late President Brigham Young, and have our
Mutual Improvement Associations of both
sexes in good running order, and much good
has been the result.
	Last fall the young men began operations
towards purchasing a library, and invited the
young ladies to unite with them, and thus be
joint owners in the same, which offer they glad-
ly accepted, and we now have a good library.
	The 12th of February being the 30th anni-
versary of the birth of our President, Sister
Sarah Ann Hart, the members of our Associa-
tion arranged a very pleasant surprise for her,
and presented her with a handsome easy chair;
in recognition of her labors in the cause of im-
provement. A sumptuous repast was provided
by the Association, and the evening was spent
in songs, speeches, recitations, etc., and every-
one seemed to enjoy themselves. Much good
instruction was given by the Bishop to the
young, and the party dispersed at an early
hour.
	JESSIE ROBB, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Grand Jury for the April term of the
Third District Court has been impaneled.
	Governor Pierce has brought down upon
his devoted head much righteous indignation
from the advocates of Woman Suffrage, not
only in Dakota, but everywhere throughout
the land. The Woman Suffrage bill passed
the House by a vote of 29 to 19, and the
Council by a vote of 14 to 10, but was vetoed
by the Governor. The New York Woman suff-
rage Party State Executive commitee have
written a letter to President Cleveland, asking
the removal of Governor Pierce, of Dakota,
for vetoing the woman’s suffrage bill, passed
by the Legislature.
	It has been arranged that Princess Beatrice's
wedding should take place in Whippinham
Church next July, during the Queen's summer
residence at Osborne. An additional item is
that the honeymoon will be passed at Quarr
Abbey,Lord Cochrane's place between Osborne
and Ryde. The precise day of the wedding
will not be fixed for some months to come, but
it will be either July 22nd, 23rd; or 24th—
most likely the 24th. The "Order of Cere-
mony" has not yet been drawn up,but we un-
derstand that it is the intention of the Queen
to give the Princess away herself, and, as at
present arranged, the bridesmaids will be mem-
bers of the Royal Family.


A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885,
a term consists of ten weeks.  Two lectures every day, 
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term, $10.00. Books, $13.00.
Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fants Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made-Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at Manufacturers’ Prices, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road
F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1885	No. 23.


For the EXPONENT:
		SPRING RAIN.

Oh, list to the voice of the pleasant spring rain,
	Which trickles and tinkles in cadences sweet,
As lutestrings and elf horns, or merry refrain
	Of sleighbells and hoofbeats, so faint and so fleet—
Or the whisper of zephyr from over the hills,
	His deep secrets telling to leaves of the trees—
The warble of birds, the gay ripple of rills,
	The laughter of childhood, the humming of bees:—

Oh, every glad voice of earth, ocean and air,
	Subdued to the key of a happy heartbeat,
Seems mingled and blended in harmony rare,
	So joyously tender, so hopefully sweet,
My heart can interpret the musical tone,
	And sings in accord with the beautiful rain
As seashells forever in soft undertone
	Breathe choruses learned in the choir of the main

It murmers glad tidings through all the soft air,
	The herald of summer, proclaiming before
O trees of the woodland, so brown and so bare,
	Your green robes and blossoms must deck you once
	more.
They start with a quiver of life in each vein,
	Sweet impulses tingle from rootlet to bough,
Of up and be doing; they scarce can complain
	The sweet tides of ecstasy thrilling them now.

It calls to the grasses, the lowly of earth,
	Dear little ones, hark! I have tidings at last,
Your lances present, ’tis the season of mirth,
	And wave your wee banners for winter is past.
All nature's dear children, the great and the small,
	On mountain and valley, in meadow and dell;
It greets, and they joyously answer the call,
	And their hearts at its coming in rapture swell.

Oh, think of the joy of the sprouting things
	That waken and stir in their dark loamy beds,
And thrill with delight at the song it sings,
	While tripping and dancing above their heads.
Little sisters and brothers, awake! it cries,
	Queen summer is coming across the bright main;
I bring her fond message: my darlings arise!
	I'm longing to kiss your sweet faces again.

Soon all the brown meadows will laugh into green
	The stately trees rustle in richest array,
The winter-bound brooks burst their icy cold chains,
	And merry birds twitter from each leafy spray.
Bless God for His goodness, His mercy and love,
	The fair face of nature, hill, valley and plain,
All blessings and wonders, below and above,
	And thanks for the beautiful, beautiful rain.
			LU DALTON.


IN MEMORY OF CLARA J. YOUNG.

DEDICATED TO ALL WHO LOVED HER.

Adorn the dead with robes of white,
	Symbol of purity and peace,
With anthems sweet, and flowers most bright,
	Proclaim our sister's glad release.

A radiant rose, without a thorn;
	A type of queenly beauty rare—
I knew her in life's early morn,
	When all her future looked so fair;

Yet, clouded oft her days have been;
	A long and lonely path she trod;
Nor doubt we that she learned to lean
	For strength upon the Lord, her God.

No more for her such pain and strife,
	Conflicting fears, and hopes defer'd
The clashing cares of mortal life,
	By which the tenderest hearts are stirred.

No more for her the daily cross,
	That God's peculiar people bear—
The world's contempt, who count as dross—
	E'en Zion's daughters pure and fair.


A vile opprobrious outcast name,
	The royal badge of Saint's indeed;
A heritage of scorn and blame—
	This dower "the Christ" His own bequeath'd

Children of Zion, need ye weep
	For one who honored heaven's behests?
Nay, for a record angels keep
	Of all who stand the fiery test.

What if the world's reproach must be
	The need of all who're faithful found—
The just shall wake to ecstasy
	Soon as "the quick'ning trump" shall sound.

Rejoice! for with the dead 'tis well,
	Who nobly lived and faithful died;
Rejoice! that in God's crucible
	Even as gold the best are tried.

Heaven help us to be true and pure,
	To keep "the faith" what e'er befall,
And for the crown the cross endure,
	As did the mighty Lord of all.

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, April 27, 1885.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS.

MY DEAR SISTERS, THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION:
	I would that ye incline your ears to what I
may write unto you. Engrave the same upon
the tablets of your inmost soul, unto the day
of your great rejoicing, by obeying the coun-
sels and instructions given you continually by
the Priesthood, at the Mutuals, Primaries, by
your parents, in short by all who hold the
soul's salvation of the young dear. If you do
otherwise great will be your sorrow and re-
morse; aye, that sorrow and remorse which
comes of a conscience not void of offense to
God, which passeth the comprehension, save by
that sad, bitter experience of those disobedient
to our Heavenly Father's laws.
	Would that we could all see with the eyes
of our elder brethren and sisters, or in other
words, be counseled, led and directed by their
inspired wisdom, how much misery and woe of
the direst form might we escape if this were
our course.
	Do not associate yourselves with any but
Latter-day Saints, not even the half-hearted
amongst us, for therein lies safety, and only
therein; no matter how nice or fair they may
seem, or of what relation they may be, if they
are not of our faith shun them; should circum-
stances throw you into such society treat them
with such civility as becometh a Latter-day
Saint, but let it be of such a nature that is
born of polished dignity, and that forbids any
intimacy, and you will one day see and feel
forcibly the wisdom of such a course and the
blessings attached. Some will doubtless say,
"Oh that is too straight laced for me! Why
such severity?" Listen. Do you believe in
God? If so, do you believe He means what
He says? You do? Very good, then; He
tells us "that those who are not for us are
against us." Can anything be more tersely
put? "But then," says another, "they are so
nice, so polite, so gallant, so—so"—yes, yes, my
dears, I know they are; Satan himself, I have
heard, is a gentleman. This niceness, gallantry,
etc., is generally a mere polished exterior, or
acquired from force of habit, covering an in-
ward corruption and vice of such a d——g
nature your very souls would revolt with hor-
ror could you discern it. They are verily
"whited sepulchres," instruments of the infer-
nal regions, sent to allure, pollute and destroy

[Column 2]

our young sisters. Oil and water cannot mix,
does not unite. So it is with the Latter-day
Saint girl and the Gentile marriage; hence the
"straight laced ideas," as some may term them.
It is displeasing in the sight of God for the
sons and daughters of Zion to marry with the
ungodly, or the children of men. Read your
Bible, Book of Mormon, etc.; con well their
precious pages, and learn the judgments of an
outraged God through the sons and daughters
marrying the children of men.
	I bear my testimony to all the daughters of
Zion, that no girl can be happy, or have even
the shadow of happiness, who commits the
grievous error of uniting her fate with an
unbeliever, grievous to none more so than
herself, in the end. No matter what the
circumstances, with what wealth, or other se-
ductive pleasures they may be surrounded, nor
how loving and devoted the husband may
seem to be, all this is a hollow mockery and
the soul yearns after something better and
holier, beyond his power to bestow; there is a
void, a dreary, aching vacuum that cannot be
filled; children only add to your soul's misery;
you are engulfed or surrounded by a perfect
sea of doubts, fears and awful anxieties lest
something should happen and your treasures
be taken from you, knowing that death severs
all ties between you. The mental tortures,
sleeping or waking, endured under these cir-
cumstances, are terrible, maddening, relentless
and unceasing; truly "the wages of sin is
death—" in this case a living one.
	Do not be deceived by cases of those who
marry thus and seem to be happy, for 'tis but
seeming at best. Could you but look into the
recesses of their hearts your souls would sicken
at the sight. They would gladly exchange
places with the veriest menial. True there
may be some who enjoy a moderate degree of
happiness, etc, but, then, their day of judg-
ment is to come; they are not suffering the ef-
fects of their transgressions on this earth, and
hence will have to hereafter. Then who would
envy them or their earthly happiness? We
are not here for this life alone, must be borne
in mind, that our fleshly desires overcome us
not, but to earn happiness, joy, rejoicing, king-
doms and exaltation in the presence of our
Lord throughout the endless ages, or "weeping,
wailing," etc.; which ever we sow we reap, for
the Lord says, "The laborer is worthy of his
hire, and it is safe to say will be rewarded by
the master he listeth to obey." Let us, then,
be found laboring in the Lord's vineyard. Fools
are known by their folly; let us rather be known
by our wisdom, by our obedience to the Priest-
hood at all times, and there will be no fear of
our marrying a Gentile. They would have to
seek wives amongst their own.
	Now, my dear sisters, be warned in time. If
this should meet the eye of one about to take
such an awful step, pause, reflect ere you take
that terrible step; pause upon the verge of the
precipice whereon you stand, and pray to God
for strength, power to comprehend and save
yourself for a "more glorious purpose," and
wait patiently for a husband of the kingdom
of God; when you will learn the meaning of
husband and wife in their holy and eternal
significance.
	That this article may be the means of caus-
ing my young sisters to reflect and choose the
better part, is my greatest desire.
	Before closing I wish to call attention to the


sad, but  true story, "The Moth and this
Flame." What a beautiful picture she has
drawn of celestial marriage---how heavenly is
the sight. This is a story, some may say. Yes,
but I have seen more than one such family in
every day life, that are true examples, practi-
c[-]l of her picture. Who would forego the
calm, sweet heavenly joys and peace of that
young wife, Mary Edna, in the fore part, for
the pomp and misery, gilt and tinsel of poor
mistaken Eulalie? How my heart ached---
bled afresh over her silent sorrows that none
but God knew[-] and those who have trod the
same thorny path.
	I could rehearse to you a tale of such utter
woe, misery, heart ache and deception, that
would chill your warm young blood and make
such an impression as would not be forgotten[-]
If it is the Lord's will I will write this tale; i[-]
shows up another phase of experience of marry[-]
ing a Gentile, of which the writer of this was
the sufferer; an experience which should con-
vince the most liberal that the daughters of
Zion should not marry with the unbeliever.  I
would exhort the young to study the principles
of the Gospel; seek a testimony thereof, and
never raise your voice against God's anointed,
or any principle of the Gospel.
							LIZZIE B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WHAT CAN A WOMAN DO?

	No doubt many members of the Institute
have wondered what vocation in life they
should adopt by means of which they  could
earn their own livelihood, thus promoting self-
reliance and the ability to do something suffi-
ciently renumerative to enable them to fight the
battle of life single handed, if necessity re-
quired it, or circumstances compelled them to
do so.  As there is always a possibility that re-
verses may come to all of us - is it not wisdom
to give some consideration to this subject?
	It would be impossible to define just what
course any member should follow to become
entirely successful; in this matter, as in many
others, we must be our own judges.  One thing
I can say with certainty, and that is this:
In making up our minds we should not adopt
any kind of labor in the slightest degree de-
grading.  Whatever we try to do, let it be the
labor we love; something we can do enthusiasti-
cally. People are rarely successful who work
mechanically.
	Some persons have thought, and do so now,
that the only labors a woman should perform
must be of a domestic character; that to be a
household drudge is all she is capable of be-
ing; but such persons must be told that at the
present time there are hundreds of ladies in
the civilized world making themselves famous
as authors, physicians, surgeons, public speak-
ers, painters, sculptors and lawyers. The ad-
vanced situation of the women of to-day grants
to her all the privileges she may seek to enjoy;
and if for any reason she does not choose to
marry, there is no law to compel her to do so.
This being the case she should know how to
take care of herself, and earn her own living.
	No successful result in any branch of study
or labor can be gained without commencing
with the menial duties connected with a work-
shop or the office.  The great fault of learners
generally is that they want to reach the top of
the ladder without first commencing at the
bottom. A great man once said that no one
could attain eminence as a lawyer without
first starting as errand boy, and sweeping out
the office as his first lessons.  In this city to-
day there are scores of ladies trying to paint
pictures without having first learned to draw.
The result is that they can never show marked
superiority; their productions will never be first
class, and what is more, cannot have a com-
mercial value, their time, paint and other ma-

[Column 2]
terials being literally thrown away. Here
then, is a point for our consideration. If we
would be artists let us start aright.  Find out
what you love to paint, and make a special
study of that particular branch of art study
you adopt.  Copy nothing, when once you
have mastered the rules, but nature, whether in
landscape or figure painting. Copies of any
other person's work have very little value.
Original efforts are the only paying ones.
	Prang of Boston, Goodall of London and
many others pay immense sums to ladies for
original designs in flowers and landscape
studies that are used in the production of birth-
day, Christmas, Easter, and New Year's cards.
They never ask the question as to where a lady
lives whose productions are acceptable.
	Coloring photographs in the styles now in
vogue brings good remuneratives to all who are
capable of doing good work, and who are de-
termined to succeed. Retouching photograph
negatives employs thousands of ladies in the
United States and Europe. Wages are gener-
ally good.
	We have in Utah to-day many ladies who
are making a good record as physicians, and
although this is a very arduous and difficult
vocation they are equal to the task.  There is
room for many others to obtain the same ad-
vantages. Each town and village can employ
a lady physician, and if they are not fully oc-
cupied as such why should they not learn den-
tistry? As we are fast becoming a toothless
generation the opportunities seem very flatter-
ing to all that will study the art.
	Notably among the Catholics many of the
female portion deny themselves earthly pleas-
ures and devote their lives to doing good, ever
ready to meet death and to face human misery
in every form, whether in homes or hospitals,
or in the midst of the terrors of the yellow
fever, cholera and other contagious diseases.
Cannot my sisters, without becoming nuns,
learn to be good nurses, if they cannot be-
come physicians? There are very few, good
nurses to be found.
	Photography is practised by many ladies.
There is one in Utah to-day that is doing real
well.  It is easy to learn in some branches, and
generally pays industrious devotees well.  I
would hardly recommend barbering to ladies,
but there are plenty of the fair sex that make
their living by practising the tonsorial art. As
Telegraphers women have proven very success-
ful. Thousands are now employed in the dif-
ferent branches of labor developed by the
uses of electricity, and there is still room for
more.
	There is a wide open field for school teachers,
and if a lady is strong physically and endowed
with patience and a lover of children, is perse-
vering and ambitious, what should hinder her
from making a financial success of this very
important employment.
	Every woman should know how to make a
dress for herself, and why should she not be
able to make them for others? As a matter
of course to be successful she must have a good
eye to make them fit like a glove, must be fa-
miliar with the rules of cutting out and fitting
other than well formed persons, all of which
requires close study.  Good dressmakers are
rarely in want of a job.
	Some of the gentler sex like to work in
factories; some do well as book-binders, and
hundreds find employment in stores. None
other than ladies can be expert milliners. The
making of artificial flowers is an undeveloped
industry in Utah. Years ago our pioneer
women used to weave and spin. There were
very many good tailoresses then; why are there
so few at present? Type setting employs a
goodly number of girls.  Then again who can
cook better than our mother's sex? Far better
to have cooking classes in our wards than waste
time on useless amusements. There is always

[Column 3]
sure work for girls as domestic helps, and when
they are well treated, I have no objection to
this kind of occupation, although some think
it menial. The result is the same, whether you
teach a scholar or make a pie - it is so much
labor for so much money. Idleness brings no
return, but labor a sure reward. To work
dignifies a man or woman. Nothing is more
degrading than laziness.
	Should any of my lady friends be so fortun-
ate as to learn to play the piano or organ, and
to perform the task well, they will find music
teaching renumerative in civilized communi-
ties. Many high born ladies, that have met
with reverses, find a knowledge of music very
advantageous. Very many large establishments
employ ladies as book-keepers, and there is no
reason why any women, who will study well
the art, should lack employment as such.
	I might go on and enumerate many other
sources looking to the dependence of women,
but space will not permit. Whatever vocation
we may decide upon as the one best suited to
our tastes, we must do with our whole heart,
determined to be  first class in everything. No
business can prove a paying success without
being understood theoreically and practically.
If we determine to know  those details of social
life that always make a woman attractive -
namely, how to manage a home; general knowl-
edge always comes into play.  No position that
a woman can fill is more ennobling than to
know how to preside over a home. A man
may be attracted by a woman when well
dressed and on parade, but he is won by her
domestic accomplishments. Self-culture will
make her an agreeable companion, and a
knowledge of domestic duties a helpmate -
without which  home has no charm, and married
life no fascination. To my mind any vocation
that leads a young woman to be fully prepared
for the duties of wifehood is always safe to fol-
low. Should any of my young lady friends
not succeed in any of the lines of labor before
named, but prove a success as a wife, she will
have accomplished one of the principal aims of
a woman's life.  Some one else will be the
happier for knowing her, and this is success
enough.					C. R. S.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	One of the most enjoyable affairs that ever
happened in Deseret came off on the 2d of April
in the form of a surprise party in honor of the
Prest. of our Society at the Relief Hall. Sister
Eliza Whicker has been president of this socie-
ty for seven years, and is a noble and well
respected sister.
	The tables were spread with a sumptuous
repast and the company seated when our be-
loved President arrived. After dinner the
ceremonies were continued by presenting Sis-
ter Whicker with a neatly gotten up and ap-
propriate address in a suitable frame, and
several other presents by the sisters, followed
by a programme, consisting of speeches, songs
and recitations.
	Sister Whicker addressed those present for
a short time, thanking the sisters for their kind-
ness; said she prized the address more than
gold or silver. A vote of thanks was then re-
turned to the committee for their exertions,and
the entertainment closed with singing and
prayer.	Respectfully,
	MARY A. BISHOP, Secretary.
Deseret, Millard Co., April 8th, 1885.


"Mrs. Elizabeth L. Saxon, of Louisiana, has
been engaged in the W. C. T. U. work in Ten-
nessee during the past year. There were but
four unions a year ago; since then Mrs. Saxon
has organized forty-eight unions with 1,560
members."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IMPROMPTU.

ADDRESSED TO A LADY SHEDDING REAL TEARS FOR
	THE DEATH OF HER PET DOG “BEAUTY.”

“Beauty,” of dogmatic race,
	Thy mistress weeps thy doom[-]
That cruel death should thus displace
	Thy loving form so soon.

Thou wert dogmatic in thy love,
	Devoted, fond and true;
And all her acts did fully prove
	She estimated you.

I pray another dog may find
	A niche within her heart,
As faithful, loving and as kind
As him she’s seen depart.

I own he was a pretty dog
	As e’er a dog could be,
One fit to hold in memory’s “log,”
	A cenotaph for thee.

But yet I own my love goes o[-]t
	Never to dog or cat:
I like to see them run about
	The house and grounds, “and that,”

But give me ever human love,
	Intelligent and kind,
Inflated richly from above,
	And interchange of mind.

The dogs I leave without the wall,
	Where Scripture says they’ll be,
When that grand order rests on all—
Eternal entity!

“Beauty” is still upon the earth,
	Where’er you turn your eyes;
Beauty has daily, hourly birth
	For votive sacrifice:

Then, dearest lady, look around
	And dry those eyes of thine,
For love like thine is bliss when found
	By those your sea[-] says—Mine
		HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

NOTES ON THE LIFE OF GEORGE
ELIOT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend: I have, an hour ago, finished
"The Life of Goerge Eliot;" thanks, ever so
many, for the loan of it. And now I suppose
you will open your eyes when I say that I am
disappointed! The fact is, I anticipated too
much. I cannot think she ever dreamed of
the letters being published; the sole material
is George Eliott i. e., her manuscripts her eternal
headaches, and ditto illnesses, through which
was displayed "the miraculous affection that
has chosen to watch over me." These are en-
tirely her own words, and it seems to me this
idolizing affection and attention in a degree
enervated her. Her journeyings and foreign
travel seem to have amounted to a perpetual
motion! Another singular feature in her daily
life is her often depression, even though sur-
rounded by bright and wonderfully superior
intellects; ministering to her and feeding her
mind with food, "convenient for it," and assist-
ing her in her literary labors. Again her
want of confidence in her own ability to ac-
complish another work, even when she had
world of admirers at her feet, for what she had
written, besides realizing a handsome fortune
by the same, were it any other than George
Eliot, I should exclaim, "What gross affecta-
tion!" A doubt of one's self is well known to
young authors, or to those who experience a
paucity of commendation, and simply "cast
their bread upon the waters—" and just sing
the song that nature impels, or inspires them
to send forth. There must have been some
chords in that fine soul of hers that had not
been drawn to a harmonizing tension, to occas-

[Column 2]

ion such a serious lack of rhythm in the noble
instrument.
	Her soul and inner life is almost excluded
from her letters; it is her literary business that
fills them. Her letters to friends are simply
the common words and wishes of common
epistolary correspondence; it is seldom a new
or startling idea presents itself; it is true they
abound in love and friendship to those she is
addressing, and who does not use the same that
has any realizing sense of those beautiful at-
tributres? I am so disappointed that I must
have a target, and I think Mr. Cross shall
stand for that, and I will say I think he is not
a suitable biographer, and that another should
have been selected for such a complex office; it
is a very delicate position for the one nearest
and dearest to the departed to attempt its de-
lineation, as they would be very apt to draw
the picture through the lens of the admirable
and the beautiful that existed in the character,
forgetting that which every artiste remembers
and understands, the shading of the picture!
Mr. Cross probably realized all this and hence
he gave her letters that she might speak for
herself, and that would have been a just idea
had she developed herself in them. I say this
in no spirit of fault-finding or caviling, but
because I have so loved the works of George
Eliot, that I wanted to see her beautiful soul
in the "inner chamber" of her life; this we
scarcely get a glimpse of, and we lay down the
book and feel we have not seen the "lifted
veil."
	Especially had I hoped that I should read
some few words of her own upon that vital
epoch of her young life, upon which she en-
tered with such a silent; grand audacity, that
amounts almost to the sublime! This is no in-
flated language when we know her origin.
Her father was a strictly religious, conscien-
tious man, a sedate, respectable character,
honored and respected, by the high and noble
in rank and position, and by all whom he as-
sociated with; that his house was one of "order,"
that he reared his family in a strictly religious
training, that this child was especially of a de-
vout, deep-thinking mind, deeply imbued in
religious tenets, strictly virtuous, that all this
early training is developed in her works; the
beautiful prayers and aspirations they contain
exhibit the living principle in her through life.
Mr. Cross says her mind was ever religious.
This is also shown remarkably in her poems:
but at an early age she became associated with
minds of another caste, with regard to religi-
ous views, and soon after with Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes and others. Grand and
great as were the minds of these men, their re-
ligious principles were of the Comte school, and
the contagion was inevitable. Still that home
religion could not be entirely extinguished in
her adhesive soul, and we can well imagine the
exquisite throes that agonized it, before she could
bring herself to take so bold a step in defiance
of the law of her country, and of the church
that had been her "nursing mother."
	Apropos of this said law of England! I bold-
ly declare it to be iniquitous! I mean the law
that refuses a divorce under circumstances in
which it is sin to oblige antagonisms to amal-
gamate. By such a law was G. H. Lewes bound
as well as many others. Let the law-makers
take the responsibility of all the misery they
have caused to many pure and virtuous souls.
It is upon this soul-thrilling subject I so
wished for a few words from the clear-headed,
religious-minded, strong-principled George
Eliot; but silence is her only commentary, and
here, I think, she erred; for was not the step
e took a public one? Did she not belong to
t Imperial Public? I am proud to say she
did and that I am a unit of the same, and
tha[-] the public have dealt nobly and under-
standingly with her, showing their rich ap-
preciation of her grand ability as an author

[Column 3]

by the handsome fortune it laid at her feet by
the purchase of her works.
	England and America have united in being
a nursing mother to her, and her name is
blended on the emblazoned scroll with their
literary immortals!
	Her poems most agreeably surprised me.
They are grand! "The Death of Moses,"
"Armgart," "How Lisa Loved the King," are
all filled with thoughts, words and deeds that
ennoble the author. "The Spanish Gypsy" is
also a wonderful painting of the awful beauty
and grandeur of savage life and character.
The origin of the Gypsies has ever been in-
volved in mystery; certainly they are a distinct
race from a noble source, denoting in their
form and features a grand type of humanity;
yet they are wanderers upon the face of the
earth, and no government could make them
otherwise; the earth is their eternal stage, and
the blue firmament their curtain, they ask no
other, they would accept no other. Fedalma,
in the beautiful palace in which she had been
reared, yearning for the outer world, as a
caged bird, is a graphic picture of the genuine
Gypsy.
	All George Eliot's characters, in whatever
form they appear, are drawn miraculously true
to nature, and herein she shines as the true
artist, and displays, throughout her works, her
own wonderfully observant, intuitive and in-
stinctive soul. She is gone! and we shall read
her no more, see her no more, till we hehold—
and hear her, in her own heavenly words, in the
choir invisible, "Whose music is the gladness
of the world."
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 6th, 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Mason, once the wife of Charles Sum-
mer, has taken up a permanent residence in
Rome.
	The Empress Eugenie has written a book up-
on the various recollections of her life, which
will be issued immediately.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar will contribute an
article to the New Era for May, descriptive
of her recent journeyings in Cuba.
	A son of Charles Dickens is a captain in the
Canadian mounted police, and is in command
of a post threatened by Riel's rebel forces.
	The "Woman's Realm" department of the
Pittsburg, Commercial Gazette, ably edited by
Matilda Hindman, is widely quoted with friend-
ly comments.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Bishop
Spalding debate in the May number of the
North American Review the question "Has
Christianity Benefited Woman?"
	Mrs. Rosa H. Thorpe, the author of the popu-
lar "Curfew Must Not Ring To-Night," resides
at San Antonio. Texas, and talks of going to
California to live.
	Jenny Lind has made a conditional promise
to give a concert next summer in Norwich, Eng-
land, in aid of the Children's Infirmary there,
of which she is the founder.
	The Ohio Hospital for Women and Chil-
dren at Cincinnati was established three years
ago, through the efforts of two women physi-
cians, Ella N. Kirk and Martha May Howells.
	"In 1882 there was a majority of five against
the woman suffrage bill in the New York As-
sembly; in 1884, a majority of four. This year
there was a majority of one in its favor, but
it did not receive the 64 votes necessary to pass
any bill."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

THE LAST DECISION.

	Of late there has been great anxiety in the
community in regard to what the decision of the
court would be in the case of Angus M. Cannon,
President of this Stake of Zion. It has been
looked upon in the light of a test case, and
therefore eager attention has been directed to-
wards the anticipated result.
	President Cannon employed the most eminent
lawyers in the city, and everything that could
be done to give the case prestige was accom-
plished, but it proved all to no purpose, for when
the trial came up, and the case was argued, all
the sublime eloquence of the most powerful
speakers counted for nothing, and the District
Attorney and Judge construed or defined the
term cohabitation according to an entirely new
idea, in order to secure, as it would seem, the
conviction of the accused, although the defend-
ant had, as was proven, kept the Edmunds law
as it had previously been interpreted in the
courts. One cannot help thinking that the mind
of the Judge and Prosecuting Attorney have
undergone a radical change since the case of
Rudgar Clawson was decided, and even since the
decision was given in another notable case—that
of Orson Arnold. Cohabitation means some-
thing different now, and judging from past ren-
derings no man will be able to tell how cohabita-
tion may yet be defined in the near future.
	The rare jewel, consistency, is absolutely left
out of the trial in the Cannon case, and the
Judge delivers his opinions as much like an
oracle as though he was seated on the bench of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
	It is rather surprising to hear men acknowl-
edge that the Edmunds law is not for the crime
of adultery and similar offences against morality
and decency, and yet it has been apparent all
the time that it was not; however it is plain to
be seen that in these matters Congress does not
intefere. Sin and vice abound and grow more
and more bold every day, and very little heed is
given to the entreaties of those zealous reform-
ers who are exercised over the matter, but when
it is affirmed by the judiciary that the Edmunds
law is to protect monogamic marriage, it is al-
most too much. It makes one sick at heart who
is acquainted with facts in relation to the safe-
guards that the very strenuous and scrupulous
people, who discuss these subjects in public,
throw around marriage to protect its sanctity.
To enumerate instances of abuses of this form
of marriage would be too extensive, unless one
could publish volume upon volume.
	In monogamy when men tire of their wives
they find an excuse to divorce them, or leave
them until the law acknowledges the separation,
if, indeed, they consider law in the case. There is
an abundance of instances in these United States
where men have had four or five or more wives
in this way, and all living; but that practice is

[column 2]

considered legitimate and within the pale of law,
although there had been all the solemnity of a
marriage ceremony in each case, that ought to
have been binding on both parties throughout
all time at least.
	It seems incredible to think that judges will
resort to such weak excuses to punish Mormons,
when there is no shadow of evidence to prove
even the appearance of having broken the law
in question. The whole proceedings are simply
a form without any meaning, except to convict,
a hollow mockery so far as the defendant is con-
cerned, and yet intended to force men to utterly
abandon those whom they have made the most
solemn covenants before God to cherish and pro-
tect.
	But these men, judges and officials, will fall
far short of accomplishing what they have un-
dertaken, however zealous they may be in
prosecuting and convicting, they cannot stop
the progress of the Kingdom of God upon the
earth. "Man proposes, but God disposes," and
they are only helping to fulfill the prophecies
concerning the last days.
	There will certainly be a diversity of opinion
even among those who discountenance the
practice of plural marriage, in regard to
Judge Zane's ruling in the Cannon case. The
interpretation the Judge gives of the word co-
habitation is so purely original that it will be
questioned as doubtful on all sides. A man's
liberty hangs by a very fine silken gossamer
thread, when it can be balanced against the
definition given to one simple word.
	It is pretty plain to see that the keeping of the
Edmunds law does not save men from the pun-
ishment determined upon, viz, fine and imprison-
ment, and, therefore, what inducement is there
to keep the law at all? By and bye, perhaps,
after innocent men have been made to suffer, or
another sort of case comes up which needs an-
other stretch of conscience, the term cohabita-
tion may have another construction put upon it.
Meantime the people will go on with their vari-
ous pursuits—preaching the Gospel, gathering
the poor, subduing the earth, beautifying and
improving Zion, teaching industry, economy
and virtue, and encouraging the people to con-
tinue in keeping the commandments of God.
This people are in the hands of that God whom
they have covenanted to obey, and He will
overrule all things for good, and no power on
earth or in heaven can hinder the growth and
spread of the work He has set His hand to do.
Things may look very dark and gloomy, men
may be in prison and in bonds, and Satan may
have power to afflict the Saints, but they will
always have the strength and courage to endure
if they live faithful and keep the Spirit of God
in their hearts, and when their integrity to God
and His Kingdom is sufficiently proven He will
come out of His hiding place and manifest His
power in the deliverance of His chosen people.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Primary Association of the 15th Ward of
this city was reorganized Oct. 16th, 1884. Mrs.
Lucy Pratt Russell had resigned the position,
on account of increased family cares, that re-
quired her whole attention, after having held
the office, which she ably and honorably filled,
a number of years. The Bishop of the ward se-
lected Mrs. M. Lois Morris to fill the vacancy, and
the organization was completed with the follow-
ing officers: M. Lois Morris, President; Susannah
Waterfall and Hortensia L. Jones, Counselors;
Vennie Luffkin, Secretary; George L. Morris,
Treasurer. The Bishopric of the ward and Sis-
ters E. C. Clawson, L. A. Wells and S. M.
Kimball officiated in the organization, and made
suitable remarks to those assembled. We un-

[Column 2]

derstand the Association to be in a flourishing
condition at the present time.
	THE Annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Twelfth Ward was held on Wednes-
day, April 22nd, in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson presiding. The weather was
very unfavorable, yet there were over sixty
children present. The minutes of previous an-
nual meeting were read and approved, also the
statistical and financial report. Singing and
other exercises were well rendered, and reflected
great credit upon those who have so arduous
though pleasant a labor in teaching the young
the ways of the Lord. After the programme
had been carried out remarks were made by Sis-
ters E. B. and L. A. Wells, Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, M. G. Wells and Eliza Lyon. President
Clawson made closing remarks, and after singing
the benediction was pronounced by Master Alex.
C. Pyper. After the close all present were
served with delicious refreshments.
	ON Friday, April 24th, the annual meeting of
the Primary Association of the Thirteenth
Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
L. A. Wells presiding. There were quite a large
number of children and several visitors present.
The minutes of the previous annual meeting and
report for the last year were read, and a pro-
gramme carried out, consisting of songs, organ
solo, accordoon solo, recitations, dialogues and
essays, questions answered and so forth. The
choice of the pieces given was particularly good
and worthy of mention, and excellent order was
observed by the little folks. Brief remarks were
made by Sisters E. C. Clawson, E. B. Wells, R.
Standring of Lehi, Bishop Milien Atwood and
Coun. Francis Platte. Prest. Welles also made
suitable concluding remarks. After singing "Our
Father in Heaven," etc., the meeting was dis-
missed with prayer by Tommie Sloan, who had
formerly been a member of the Association.
	WE had the pleasure of attending the annual
meeting of the Relief Society of Davis Stake,
held in the Farmington meeting house, Friday,
April 17th, Coun. Mary S. Clark presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes and annual report, Sister Clark called
upon the Relief Society Presidents to report the
condition of the branch society over which they
presided. The reports were very good though
brief, and each one spoke as though earnestly
engaged in the duties pertaining to her calling.
Sister Phebe W. Woodruff of this city then ad-
dressed the congregation, giving some of her
experience in the Church for over fifty years,
imparting most excellent and wise instruction
pertaining to the times in which we are living.
Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden followed in a
similar strain, dwelling upon the duties of
mothers, and the care of children and family,
giving excellent spiritual and practical advice
and urging the sisters to persevere in the path of
duty and obedience, and never be weary in well
doing. Counselor Hesse then occupied a short
time, in which he spoke most encouragingly to
those engaged in the Relief Society, and gave
excellent advice to old and young. In the after-
noon others of the Presidents reported the So-
ciety over which they presided, after which
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the congregation,
dwelling, in the course of her remarks, upon
home industries, manufactures and literature,
the storing of grain, the Deseret Hospital, its
aims and needs, and other general matters.
Sisters Woodruff and Richards each spoke upon
subjects of special interest, and Sisters Leonard
and Barkdell occupied a short time, and Coun.
Clark spoke very earnestly and impressively
upon the signs of the times, and exhorted all to
keep the commandments of God. The confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing.
Benediction by Bro. Ezra T. Clark.


IN company with Sister Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, we visited Morgan to attend the confer-
ence of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., held
there on Saturday and Sunday, April 26th and
27th. The Relief Society Conference on Saturday
held two sessions, Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding.
Prest. W. G. Smith and Counselor Samuel
Francis were present. Reports from all parts of
the Stake were given by the sisters who repre-
sented the several branches in the Stake. In-
teresting and Instructive remarks were made by
Sisters J. S. Richards, E. B. Wells, President
Smith and President Rich. The Second Coun.,
Sister Mary Jane Tomar, resigned her position
on account of having moved away, and Sister
Mary Ann Simmons was chosen by Prest. Rich
to fill the vacancy, and the name was presented
by Prest. W. G. Smith, and she was unanimous-
ly sustained. On Sunday the Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference convened in the new Stake Taber-
nacle, Sister Susannah Hiner presiding. There
was a very large assembly, and after the usual
exercises, minutes were read and the young
presidents gave in reports of the several Asso-
ciations. A quarterly manuscript paper entitled
"The Young Ladies' Journal," was read by Mrs.
Mary H. Welsh, which was a very pleasing
feature of the conference. The articles, which
were from all parts of the Stake, were very good
indeed, and reflected great credit on the several
contributors, and spoke well for the literary ad-
vancement of the young people. Addresses
were made by Prest, Hiner and Sisters E. B.
Wells and J. S. Richards, in which the young
girls were given motherly advice and instruc-
tion, and exhorted to purity of life and character,
and to preserve themselves in the paths of vir-
tue and holiness; to study the human system
and obtain knowledge from all good books, and
above all to cultivate the Spirit of God and as-
sist in the great work of the last days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on
Saturday, April 17th, at 2 p.m., as usual, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing. Prayer by
Counselor B. W. Smith. Then singing. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved; also
minutes from the P. A. of the 21st, 15th and
16th Wards.
	Remarks by President Horne, who expressed
her regret that there were no minutes of the Y.
L. M. I. A. Referred to the trials which the
Saints are now experiencing, and the necessity
of keeping the commandments of God. Ad-
vised the sisters to exercise charity and bear
with each others faults and shortcomings, and
be comforters to all. Be sure and obey counsel,
as it was the only path of safety.
	President Horne called upon the Presidents
of the several branches of the Relief Society
present to express themselves, beginning with
Sister M. Chase of the First Ward, who had just
recently returned from Vermont, where she had
been for some months on a visit to her relatives.
	Sister Chase made a few remarks; said she
had been absent one year. Gave a brief account
of her visit, and expressed her desire to be faith-
ful and true to God and the principles of the
Gospel.
	Remarks calculated to strengthen and en-
courage the sisters were made by Sisters Rhoda
Fullmer, Jane Lawson and Sinah Bishop; the
last named recited a poem of her own composi-
tion. Sisters Player and Louisa Horne made a
few remarks, and one or two other sisters. Dr.
E. S. Barney spoke a short time, and endorsed
the remarks which had been made by the sis-
ters.
	Sisters Norman and Watmough bore their
testimonies, and then President Horne made


concluding remarks, exhorting the sisters to be
wise and obedient, and remember all clouds have
a silver lining. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, "Wake, O wake, the world from sleep-
ing!" etc. Benediction by Sister E.S. Taylor.


THE OTHER SIDE.

	O consistency, where hast thou hidden thy
face? Hundreds of widows were excluded from
voting at the polls on account of their belief,and
the Edmunds act, Section 9, reads thus: "Pro-
vided said board of five persons shall not
exclude any persons, otherwise eligible to vote,
from the polls, on account of any opinion such
persons may entertain on the subject of bigamy
and polygamy, nor shall they refuse to count
any such vote on account of the opinion of the
person casting it on the subject of bigamy or
polygamy."
	Question, to the law and the testimony. Can
a widow commit a crime without a man, bigamy
or polygamy? If not must she be punished by
the Edmunds law? And now I think it no
more than right that we get redress for being
wronged and deprived of our right of franchise
for three successive years, for by losing that
number of votes, unlawfully, the commissioners
thought to turn the balance of power into their
own hands and give the predominant party rule;
and they are our most bitter enemies. We
would like to have our case go before the public,
and see if their expression would not be, Give 
Utah's widows as much right as the Edmunds
law will allow, as well as to have it all on their
side to punish whom they please and how they
please, and we have the right to sue those par-
ties for damages, according to the letter of the
law, for they have broken it themselves, and
now they spit out their spite on one poor lame
woman for contempt of the law, because she
voted ignorantly, not knowing that the law
passed in March, and had cast in her vote, and
has to be put in bonds for perjury. What no-
bility of character! What magnanimous con-
duct! What a refining element has come into
our midst! The widows will soon get converted
to monogamy, these monogamist men are so
philanthropic in piecing out the law to Utah's
subjects.
	Now, if Mr. Edmunds will amend Sec. 9 and
make it read, Send all the Latter-day Saints to
prison without a scratch of the pen to prove
them guilty, or proper evidence.
	I should like to know how the law can prove
a marriage without a certificate of date and an
agent of ceremonies; and as the law was made
to punish offenders in this Church, married men
and women, how, in the name of common sense,
can unlawful cohabitation be proven without
seeing a man and his wife together? If this
law was made for the rest of Uncle Sam's
children, these very tenacious, overreaching,
virtuous, far-seeing, evil-minded men would
commence to cleanse and purify the element in
their cities, towns, villages and hamlets. This
would cost the government far less, and do
more good. The word says, "First clean the in-
side of the platter." We are on the outside. No
one need to suppose for a moment that anyone
outside of this Church can have the benefit of a
higher law of marriage, for no one holds the
authority but those whom God has appointed;
the same as Nathan, the Prophet, had a divine
right to give, or take wives to or from favored
men of God, that we all can read about in the
good old Bible, which we all have read a great
deal. Our sectarian friends, fearing we did not
read and comprehend the Bible, sent so many
to us, that we might be converted to its sublime
truths; we greatly admire such characters
as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Samuel, Elkanah,
Hannah, David, Solomon, John the Revelator, who


writes about twelve names on the gates of the
new Jerusalem.
	A LOOKER ON.


COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.

	Recently Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in mid-
wifery assembled at her office, No. 18, Main St.
A number of these students had attended a
complete course of study, and complied with all
requirements necessary for a final examination,
which was conducted by Drs. H. J. Richards
and A. S. Bower.
	The following named ladies passed successful-
ly and received certifitates of study in this im-
portant branch: Mrs. Martha Geddes, Plain
City' Weber Co., Julia A. McDonald, Mesa
City, Arizona, Cally Justeson, Spring City,
Sanpete Co., Lizzie H. Shipp and Jennie Jacob-
sen, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Elizabeth Kieser and
Mary Olsen passed their examination Dec. last.
	After these preliminary exercises refreshments
were served, followed by social conversation,
speeches, songs, etc., closing with an address
by Dr. E. R. Shipp to the young accoucheurs,
who were about to depart for their homes--some
to distant parts.

	After months of such intimate association in
the investigation of a science in which we, as
women, are so particularly interested, it is but
natural that we should become more than or-
dinarily interested in each other. The ties of
friendship become more firmly wedded by a
knowledge of each others mental capacitie[-], and
by intellectual interchange of thoughts and
ideas; indeed, I think that in our future lives we
will each have many pleasing reminiscences of
these instructive interviews.
	As the hour of separation approaches my
thoughts and feelings go forth to you with a
species of maternal solicitude, and I feel I can-
not let you pass from under my earnest tute-
lage without a few parting words.
	I trust the principles that have been inculca-
ted in your minds may remain with you and
serve you faithfully in case of every emergency;
and I would suggest that the completion of this
course of study be not the finale of your investi-
gations, but as your knowledge increases, and
judgment improves with practical experience,
that you keep your minds bright and active by
continued research—study the latest and best
works, and keep posted in the medical literature
of the day, particularly that pertaining to your
special branch. Without constant study we
are liable to grow dull and rusty and out of date,
and lose the benefit of the wonderful advance
made in science from year to year.
	Your woman's intuition will naturally teach
you many of your duties as obstetricians, your
own sensitiveness and delicacy of nature will
tend to gentleness and refinement in the man-
agement and treatment of those requiring your
services.
	Often the medical attendant, becomes the re-
cipient of confidences, frequently of the most
delicate and private character. Forget not this
sacredness—never make them the subjects of
gossip, and under no circumstances repeat them
to the annoyance of your patients and to your
own lasting discredit.
	The life of a physician is proverbially one of
hardship and anxiety, but to the thoroughly
educated and conscientious practitioner there is
much satisfaction and pleasure mingled there-
with; we experience a sweet recompense through
every day of our lives by the consciousness that
we have relieved suffering, soothed pain, and
perchance prolonged or saved life.
	Never allow personal interest, comfort, inclina-
tion or convenience to sway you in your duties
to your patients. If circumstances prevent your


giving that attention it is your duly to give, let
some one else take the case. Remember the
words quoted by our mutual favorite, Dr. F.
Barker. "There are moments that are worth
more than years. A sick man may have the
unwearied attendance of his physician for
weeks, and then may perish in a moment, be-
cause he is not by."
	Somewhere I have read that the great Jennie
Lind, renowned as well for her sweet and affable
nature as for her gift of song, has been said to
have made "a conscience of her art." She al-
ways did her best; was just as desirious to excel
and please when singing to a few poor peasant
children, as when performing before the im-
mense audiences of the world.
	If there is any profession on the earth who
should make a conscience of their art, it is most
assuredly the one you have chosen. Think of
the sacred charge submitted to our care—human
lives! To the Great Author of this mortal ex-
istence, one life is just as precious as another.
He prizes the life of the poor and the lowly as
much as that of the rich and affluent. Then let
us never be influenced in our profession as medi-
cal attendants by the wealth or position of our
patrons.
	While lingering on the last good bye, I would
fain express to you the depth of my affection
and interest, and my earnest desire for your fu-
ture success and prosperity. Wherever you
may sojourn my sympathy and love, my sincere
faith and prayers will accompany you.
	As a last admonition I would say, Be true to
what your own hearts tell you is just and right,
be faithful in the discharge of every duty to
your fellow creatures, and ever loyal to your
God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MESA, ARIZONA.
	Our Relief Society Stake Conference was
held to-day in the Relief Society Hall, in Mesa,
President E. G. McDonald presiding. After
the usual opening exercises a report of the
various branches was given, showing consider-
able improvement in good works since our last
conference. Quite a number of the sisters
were called upon, who cheerfully responded,
encouraging all to work works of righteous-
ness.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald then instructed the
conference in their duties as teachers, mothers
and Saints, after which the statistical and finan-
cial reports were read.
	Prest. Chas. I. Robson, Bishops Pomeroy and
O. M. Stewart and Elder J. M. Lewis were
called upon, all of whom encouraged the sis-
ters in their work of charity.
	The subject of the silk industry was dwelt
upon, which was of great importance to us, as
a number of the sisters propose engaging in
that pleasant and profitable labor this season.
	An excellent spirit prevailed during our
conference, and all felt well paid for attending.
		ADDIE PASSEY, Secretary.

CACHE STAKE.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Cache
Stake was held in the tabernacle, March 7th,
1885, Prest. Carrie M. C. Smith presiding
There were present on the stand Counselor Ida
T. Langton, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Howard
and Mary Freeze.
	In the forenoon the Presidents of the vari-
ous wards gave verbal reports of their associa-
tions, all of which were highly satisfactory,
after which Sister Freeze said: "There are
enough sisters present to sow the good seed in
every association. There is no happiness out-
side of the Gospel. Be obedient and prayerful,
and learn in youth that the Spirit of God
brings happiness."

[Column 2]

	In the afternoon the financial and statistical
report was read by Sister Martineau, after
which were some exercises indicative of the
work done during the winter. The following
exercises may be mentioned: The Prophecy
of Samuel the Lamanite, from the Book of
Mormon, was very well rendered. O. F. Whit-
ney's "Christmas Idyl" was excellently recited,
and a very good manuscript paper was read.
	Sister Taylor said she was pleased with the
reports and exercises; could note an improve-
ment since last conference. "In your meetings
bear your testimonies, and respond to every
call. Learn to think and write your thoughts
for your manuscript papers; sustain home in-
dustries; obey counsel; seek for excellence. All
our Mutual Improvement work must be found-
ed on the spiritual.
	Prest C. O. Card said he had enjoyed the
time spent in the meeting. "The sisters have
duties to perform as Latter-day Saints, and
they should not shirk them, thinking they can
do nothing outside of home. Be willing to as-
sist in any public labor, and do not wish to re-
sign if called to assist in the Young Ladies'
Associations, or Relief Society. Attend
meetings and be faithful, and you will be
blessed in your homes and in your lives.
	After the reading of the following resolu-
tions, by the Prest., the conference was ad-
journed:
	Whereas, the day is now at our doors when
the enemies of Zion are arrayed against her,
and boldly declare their intentions of forcing
us, as a religious body, to relinquish that
which is dearer than life itself, depriving the
children of holy wedlock of honorable paren-
tage, and our parents of those inherent rights
that were given by God to His children—
	Therefore, We, the daughters of these noble
men and women, emphatically affirm that we
are.
	Resolved to prove ourselves worthy of our
parentage and cause, by patronizing, conscien-
tiously and disinterestedly, our home industries
and institutions, thereby proving our faith by
our works.
	Resolved, That we will endeavor to further
the interest of our own cause by curtailing our
needless wants, and strive, by industry and
economy, to bring prosperity again to our doors,
and become a self-sustaining people, as we have
been counseled from the earliest period of our
history in these valleys.
	Resolved, That as members of the Y. L. M.
I. A., we will try to set an example worthy of
imitation, endeavor to have our adornings the
workmanship of our own hands, and ever bear
in mind, that to obtain the blessings we desire,
we must merit them by keeping the command-
ments of God.
		ELLEN BARBER, Cor. Secretary.

JUAB STAKE.
	The Primary and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions of Juab Stake held their confernece in
the meeting house, March 15th, 1885. The
Primaries occupied the morning meeting, Stake
Prest., Hannah Grover, presiding. The Sab-
bath School choir sang the two opening hymns.
Prayer was offered by Bro. Chas. Sperry. The
minutes of the last conference were read and
approved, also the financial and statistical re-
ports of each of the associations.
	A programme, consisting of recitations, songs,
etc., was successfully executed by the children.
Following these exercises Sister M. E. Neff
represented the First Ward of Nephi as being
in a healthy condition both temporally and
spiritually; also spoke of mental and moral
culture. This was followed by A. C. Bigler
reporting the Second Ward of Nephi, and
Esther Gardner that of Levan. Then Prest.
Paxman announced that Prest. Hannah Grover
had been called to labor in another field, and

[Column 3]

as a consequence would resign all of the offices
held by her here.
	Sister Grover gave a valedictory address—
said it was hard for her to resign her offices, be-
cause she had taken so much pleasure in her
labors and associations with the Primaries.
Gave some good instruction to the children, and
ever prayed for their welfare.
	The Stake Presidency is now as follows:
M. A. Cazier, Prest., Lizzie G. McCune and A.
C. Bigler, Counselors, L. A. Cazier, Secretary
and Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, Benedic-
tion by Bishop John Haws of Mona.
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Associa-
tion occupied the afternoon, meeting commenc-
ing at two p.m., Stake Prest., M. E. Teasdale,
presiding. After the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved; also
statistical and financial reports of the county.
During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang a few appropriate verses. The
programme consisted of the reading of the
Young Ladies' Journal, songs and addresses,
all of which were given in an intelligent man-
ner by the members.
	Prest. Paxman then spoke of Sister Grover
being called to labor in the Temple at Logan,
therefore making it necessary for her to resign
her position as Coun. to the Stake Prest. Ex-
pressed his regret at having to part with so
earnest and zealous a laborer as Sister H.
Grover had been in this position.
	Sister Grover then tendered her resignation
and made a few appropriate remarks relative
to her association with the young people of
Juab Stake. Expressed her regret at having
to separate from them, and closed her re-
marks by blessing them and wishing them to
still keep her in remembrance and be her
friends.
	Prest. Teasdale gave the spiritual report of
the branch Associations. Testified to the good
works of sister Grover, and felt that she could
not say enough in her praise.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks,
containing an exhortation to the young to im-
prove themselves mentally, physically and
not to engage in the service of the adversary.
	Miss Kate Love was then chosen as First
Counselor to Prest. Teasdale, and Miss Mary
Linton as Second Counselor to fill the vacancy,
caused by the removal of M. A. Cazier. to the
Stake Presidency of the Primaries. The officers
of the Associations were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "Come we that love the Lord," etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Warner of Nephi.
	 M. E. ORD, Stake Secretary,
	 L. A. CAZIER, Secretary of Primaries.

WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake was held in the Taber-
nacle, Ogden, Thursday, March 12, 1885,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m., Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. Singing, "On the moun-
tain tops," etc. Prayer by Elder W. S.
Childs. "Singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray,"
etc. Minutes of previous conference and re-
ports from nearly all the branches in Weber
Co. were read,showing the healthy condition of
the entire Society in that stake.
	Prest. Richards made a few encouraging re-
marks; alluded to the angels taking notes of
our good deeds, and our meeting together, and
of all things transpiring in our midst; urged
the people to look on the bright side and be
full of hope and joy, and remember that God
will over rule everything for the upbuilding
of His kingdom upon the earth. She desired
that we might have humility and faith to en-
dure all the trials necessary for our exalta-
tion.


Sister Eliza R. S. Smith made a most elo-
quent and stirring address, in which she inclu-
ded every blessing, duty and privilege in the
life of a Latter-day Saint, and earnestly urged
all to devote every faculty and all the means
they might accumulate to the upbuilding of
the kingdom of God, to have no selfish inter-
ests for come life or come death, to fulfill the
will of our Heavenly Father was the most im-
portant work in which any one could be en-
gaged.  Said when asked the question "Sister
Eliza, what do you think of the times?" she re-
plied, “I think they are glorious!” I am proud
of those who are worthy to suffer for the Gos-
pel’s sake, not counting their persecutions dear
for Christ’s sake; Said this is only the begin-
ning; we may round up our shoulders and bear
it, for there is a purpose in it.  Do our ene-
mies do more to us than they did to Jesus?
Will we be called to suffer any more than He
did—is there any fear of it?  He will have a
tried people, and He has to make use of some
very rough tools to refine and polish us; we
have got to be in a different condition as a
people before He can come out in judgment as
he has predicted.  Every one that maintains
his or her integrity to the kingdom of God will
see the most magnificent blessings will be
poured out upon the Saints.  Made some state-
ments in regard to the persecutions in Kirtland,
Missouri and Nauvoo, and how every trial had
proved a blessing in the end, though it was
not apparent, while passing under the rod, and
made many other references to the conditions
which brought about persecution; said she
wanted to see Zion independent, grow and put
oh her beautiful garments; the kingdom of
God will protect all good citizens, shield and
protect virtue, innocence and righteousness.
Had thought in the past these things would not
be in her day, but rejoiced that she had lived
to see the events now transpiring. Exhorted
all to purify their own hearts and live as be-
come sons and daughters of the Most High,and
gave much special instruction for the benefit of
those who desire to live lives of purity and
holiness, and alluded to her once having had a
foretaste of the blessedness and happiness the
Saints will enjoy when they become as one.
	Singing, "O! ye mountains high," etc. Bene-
diciton by Bro. Wm. Middleton.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Singing,“Come all
ye sons of Zion.” Prayer by Bishop McQuarrie.
Singing, “The trials of the present day,” etc.
	Sister E. R. S. S. spoke appreciatingly of
the efforts and labors of the secretaries, and
blessed those who were willing to come for-
ward and act in that office; she also spoke of
the study of obstetrics, and the need of compe-
tent help in this profession, and advised the
young sisters to study and inform themselves
for their own benefit, if even they never should
be called to practice; said an excellent offer
had been made to those who wished to study,
by one of our sisters in Salt Lake—Maggie C.
Shipp—her terms were, two lectures a day for
ten weeks, $10.  Made some other remarks re-
lating the circumstances now surrounding
the people, and the terrible events transpiring
in the earth.
	The meeting was afterwards addressed by
Coun. C. F. Middleton,Coun. Hattie C. Brown,
Sister Sarah Herrick, Prest. of Y. L. M. I. A.
of Weber Stake, Sister E. B. Wells of Salt
Lake City, Martha Critchelow, Prest. R. S.
First Ward, Ogden, Nancy M. Tracy, Prest.
R. S. Huntsville, Bishop McQuarrie, Bishop
Wallace and one or two others, upon subjects
of vital importnace to the Saints. 
	[-]rest Richards made some excellent re-
marks at the close, thought there had been a
feast of good things during the meetings.
	Adjourned the conference for three months.
Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion!"
Benediction by Coun. Middleton.
	E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	MANASSA, Colorado.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is spring of the year, and all hands are
busy putting in crops and gardens; the young
trees and plants are budding, and nature has
just begun to put on her robe of green, which
makes times lively and every one to feel to
welcome the spring of the year.
	Some of us went to Utah last fall—rather on
business than pleasure—were much delighted
with our visit, and pleased to see the temple
and many other places of interest to the Lat-
ter-day Saints, but upon returning home were
glad to see this beautiful valley, and felt like
we were coming home, and felt satisfied with
our home in this new country, and believe, if
we will persevere, we can yet make it to blos-
som as Utah does, but then, perhaps, our ene-
mies will be more anxious to take it away from
us. As yet they do not seem to be very
greedy; it may be because this is such a large
valley and so much land laying idle just as
good as ours.
	It does seem as though we have been special-
ly favored thus far—more than some of our
brethren and sisters in other localities, for
which we feel thankful. I refer to those who
have been persecuted for the sake of their re-
ligion, and have been tried and imprisoned for
adhering to the principle of Polygamy. One
of our brethren had been tried, but those who
had made such a loud noise, crying, "adultery,
fornication," were not able to prove anything,
therefore the case was thrown out of court,
and we are left once more to attend to our own
business in peace, which we can do without
help from our enemies.
	It seems that our worst enemies here are
those who have once borne their testimony to
the truth, but have forgotten their covenant
and have turned away, and are now making
willing tools of themselves in the hands of the
devil to accomplish his purposes. The Gen-
tiles by whom we are surrounded have thus
far treated us very kindly. The Saints are
becoming more united. our Sunday Schools,
Young People's Associations and Relief Socie-
ty are doing well. Sister Eliza M. Smith is
Stake President of our Relief Society—we
have great faith and confidence in her ability
as an energetic leader and faithful Latter-day
Saint. Sister Hannah Christenson is Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this ward under
whose management it is doing well. The sis-
ters all seem to be alive to their duties, and 
can always find plenty to do, for it seems to
fall to our lot to have a great many needy
among us continually, and can always find an
object on which to bestow our charity.
	S. T. B.

	MT. CARMEL, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very small and remote settlement,
nevertheless the Saints manifest a desire to
press forward in the great and glorious work
in which we are engaged. I have read of
many troubles experienced by our old ances-
tors of this Church, and they make my heart
bleed, but what cares the enemy for that? The
persecution that has been and is, to all appear-
ance, likely to be again, in part, lest the un-
seen, but ever confiding hand of God, inter-
feres, brings forcibly to my mind, we are the
chosen people of the Lord, for if we were of
the world, the world would love us; but just the
reverse, we are not worldly and we care not
for the world; we trust in God for protection,
for He has called us out from Babylon, and if
the whole world turn against us we will not
go back nor follow her ways. We have every
evidence needful, that an honest heart can de-

[Column 2]

sire to substantiate the fact that this is the 
Kingdom that Daniel saw many hundred years
ago. See its advancement and prosperity, not-
withstanding the many severe trials the Saints
have had to pass through. It does seem to 
me that every hard blow the enemy makes is
only adding fuel to the fire. It may not seem
so to all. These troubles are not very desirable,
but perhaps necessary to stir up and make us
know who we are. It has been said that afflic-
tions, though they seem severe, in mercy oft
are sent. They stopped the prodigal's career,
and caused him to repent.
	This long while the wheat and tares have
been growing together; perhaps the Lord de-
signs a separation, and He is permitting the
enemy to do the work, or rather commence it;
we know our Father can do his own work, and
in His own due time He will accomplish His
great design.
	Satan has much power, and yet it is limited
in comparison to that of our Heavenly Father.
Oh! ye foul ambassadors of Satan, stop and
think before too late. Know ye not that this
earth and the fulness thereof is the Lord's?
Will ye not understand He has spoken from
the heavens in these last days, and commanded
His people, and they will obey His voice? If
not, it is because ye are straining at a gnat and
swallowing a camel.
	Go on ye Saints of the Lord! God is our
shield, director and protector; in Him we
trust, and while we live, we live unto Him, and
when we die, we die unto Him.
	M. E. B.


EXTRACTS.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking the following items might be read
with interest, I send them to you:
		L. G. R.
	OAKLEY, Cassia Co., I. T., March, 1885.
MY DARLING LULA:
	I write in answer to your's received the 1st
inst.		*	*	There is some very excel-
lent land in this part of the country; fiin, sandy
loam, no rocks in it; if there were plenty of
water for it nothing could be better. It looks
as though to put the seeds into the ground
would be all that was necessary to have a good
crop; and it would be, with sufficient rain fall,
but that does not come, and when the sun gets
hot and the weather dry, the vegetation would
wither and die. But it will not be many years
before the Lord will bless the land for the
righteous' sake; yea, all the land, as He has al-
ready blessed portions of it, and He will send
the rain in the season thereof; all we need is to
know that we are worthy before the Lord, and
all will be well with us.	*	*	I do not
know what the wonderful (?) works of the
late Legislature in this Territory will amount
to.
	The men folks are plowing their land, work-
ing in canyons, etc., as if nothing unusual had
happened. Well, there are good, honest, vir-
tuous Latter-day Saints here, as well as in
other places, and doubtless they need stirring 
up the same as the rest, that they might awake
and put on the armor of righteousness, repent
of their follies and carelessness and be sure
that their lamps are trimmed and burning.
	It is quite a long way from here to where 
our meetings are held, and I cannot go very
often. I miss the meetings very much, and
the society of my dear sisters there in the city,
although we have kind, agreeable and very
hospitable neighbors here. I enjoy the quiet of
my snug little room, out would feel all the
more contented if all my beloved children
were near enough that I could see them often;
but the peaee of God abides in my heart, and I
am blessed, no matter where my lot is cast,


When the Lord blesses us so greatly with His
peace and love, we can afford to wait for a ful-
ness of joy and blessings in the eternal world,
which we never could obtain in this.	*	*
	I am so weak and trembling, I have been
fearful that I should have to give up writing
altogether, which would seem a great trial to
me. There are many of my friends whom I
should like to communicate with by letter, but
I am not able to do so.
	You will please present my kindest love to
our dear Sisters Show and Wells, and all the
rest, when you see them. The sisters of the
Twentieth Ward are always remembered.
	That you and all my dear children may be
ever faithful to the cause of truth, is the con-
stant prayer of
	Your affectionate mother,
		S. K. GREENE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS.

	Whereas, It becomes our duty to part with
and accept the resignation of our esteemed
friend, Mrs. Moody, who has acted as President
of the Thatcher and Layton Wards during the
past year, and who feels the task too great to
do justice to both places, in her stead have
been placed Mrs. Layton, as President, Mrs.
Monteath and Mrs. Madsen, as Counselors.
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Lay-
ton Ward, esteem her as a good president and
wise counselor, and that we will ever appreciate
her kindness, and endeavor to practice her
good teachings. We are pleased to present to
her a beautiful picture of our much loved
Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith. And now, dear editor, if you will be
patient with us for a few moments and follow
us in your mind's eye we will escort her to a
neighboring house,and when the door is opened
judge of her surprise and pleasure at beholding
a table spread with the good things of the land,
among which can be seen a dish of nice home
produced honey-comb, which, in this desert
land, is not only very pleasing to the eye, but
to the taste also.
	We will leave them to enjoy the surprise,
with a bevy of beautiful girls to wait on them.
		MRS. ROXANA WALKER,
		MRS. NANCY PEEL,
		MRS. HARRIET WARNER,
		MRS. ANNIE PACKER.
	Layton, Arizona, April 2nd, 1885.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her residence, in Payson Ward, Utah Co.,
U. T., Fanny Coombs, wife of Isaiah M. Coombs, March 
14th, 1885, aged forty-two years, nine months and eight 
days.
	She received the Gospel at Cincinnati, O., where she,
with mother and sisters, were baptized by Elder John
Banks, April 24th, 1855. Deceased was married to
Isaiah M. Coombs July 23th, 1858; was the mother of 
fourteen children, all living except three, who died in
infancy. She embraced and lived up to every principle
that God has revealed for the exaltation of woman
Was endeared not only to her family, but to all who
knew her. Had strong faith in the ordinances of the
Church, and when in the agonies of death sang, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We, the members, of the Payson Ward, Relief Society,
Utah Stake, U. T., unanimously adopt the following:
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death our much loved and 
worthy Secretary, of the 3rd District, and,
	Whereas, Her labors in our Society have been faith-
fully performed, we feel to recognize and respect her
virtues among us; therefore, be it
	Resovled, That we do recognize in the death of our
sister, Fanny Coombs, the loss of a faithful member in
our Society.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize

[Column 2]

with the bereaved husband, children, mother, sisters,
relatives and friends.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records, that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved
husband, and also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		J. B. SIMONS,
		AGNES DOUGLAS,
		M. A. HARDY.

	It now becomes our painful duty to announce the
death of our beloved associate, Sister Sarah Mariah
Wadsworth, who departed this life March 5th, 1885,
after a brief illness of twenty-four hours. She was the
daughter of Thomas S. and Eliza J. Terry, born at
Hebron, Washington Co., September 13th, 1865, and
was married to George William Wadsworth November
16th, 1882.
	She was Second Counselor in the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association of Panacca, which posi-
tion she faithfully filled for one year. She was one of
the most amiable of her sex, and was beloved by all
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
	The deceased was a loving wife and mother. She
leaves a husband and two children, the youngest but
one day old, and a host of friends who deeply mourn
her loss.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister
Sarah Mariah Wadsworth, by the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association of Panaca.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sis-
ter, we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy
member of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records, and a copy be presented to the bereaved family,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
		MARY JANE LEE, President,
		CHRISSIE ZYPUS, Secretary.
	Panaca, Nevada, April 10, 1885.

	In a recent meeting of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association of Goshen a committee was ap-
pointed to draw up resolutions of condolence to the
memory of Miss Rosetta Cole, daughter of Benjamin and 
Mary Cole, who departed this life on the 10th inst., at 
the early age of sixteen. The following is a copy pre-
sented for publication.

		  RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE.

	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause
of truth, to finish the labor so nobly begun on this earth
in a higher sphere, we, the members of this Association,
offer our heart felt sympathy to the bereaved parents
and freinds of the deceased, and although her loss is
keenly felt, both as a faithful member of the Associa-
tion and a devoted daughter, we trust the parents will
feel reconciled, knowing that she was taken from a
world of sorrow by a just and merciful God.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolntions be placed
upon the records of the Association, and that one be
presented to the bereaved parents.
				M JAMESON,
	Committee.	M. A. MADESN,
				A. M. NELSON.


[Column 1]
	Special Notice.

	In order to accomodate a number of persons who
desire to joing my Obstetric Class, but cannot commence
in May, I have concluded not to start my Class until
later, when due notice will be given.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY

Dr. Maggie [-] Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885;
a term consists of ten weeks. Two lectures every day,
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term; $10.00.	Books, $13.00
	Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.

[Column 2]
		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
	SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

	Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gro[-]-
	grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
	Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
	MRS. B. P. MUSSER.
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
	Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on  short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306 SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1885.	NO. 24.


TRUTH.

SUGGESTED BY SEEING THE FIGURE OF TRUTH
HOLDING THE LAMP ABOVE HER HEAD, AND
IN HER LEFT HAND A MIRROR.

Truth! thou pure and heavenly maiden!
	Daughter of a sire divine
Of a mother gospel-laden,
	Of a long, unsullied line.

By thy robe of purest whiteness,
	By the lamp above thy head,
By the mirror in its brightness—
	By all these may I be led
Through the oft bewildering mazes
	Human footsteps have to trace
Through the wondrous varied phases
	Met within life's complex race.

"What is truth?" was Pilate's query,
	Man of half awaken'd soul,
Little ken'd he one so dreary,
	He just pass'd His earthly goal,
Could be truth personified!
	The Son of man to whom the world
Yet should own Him deified
	By the motto He unfurled.

Truth!—how few its power defining
	Have the wisdom or the will—
Crowds we see it oft declining,
	Fondly nursing error still.

In this word, that has no equal,
	What a volume lies unread;
Eternity contains the sequel,
	By heavenly oil its lamp is fed.

Oh! may truth, by God's own Spirit,
	On my heart, my lips, my brain,
Be impressed by its own merit,
	And all its wealth may they retain.

Truth, God's motto, is eternal
	As the heavens eternal are;
Blooming bright, and ever vernal
	Like yon glorious Polar Star!

Let us guard it as the jewel
	That shall blaze around our crown
When we pass a life renewal,
	When we lay the earthly down.

		HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 4th, 1883.


MY SHIP.

As I stand by life's ocean its waves kiss my feet,
And its murmuring music falls softly and sweet
On my ear, that has listed its wild, stormy roar,
Bringing peace to my soul, for the conflict is o'er.

Oh! wild was the storm when I stood here before,
And watched for the barque which the waves drove
	ashore,
The barque I sent forth in the balmy spring time
To gather me treasures in love's sunny clime.

I gazed on the wreck, now washed by the tide,
And then at the ocean, dark, treacherous, wild,
'Til faint-hearted and weary I sat down to weep
O'er the ruins wide strewn on the shores of the deep.

Then unto my spirit a voice whispered low,
Examine this wreck, that you better may know
How to build a staunch ship that can brave every gale,
Nor e'en before treachery's fierce dart will fall.

This one you sent forth in the morning's calm hour,
Not knowing the day would bring wild winds and
	shower,
Not knowing that shoals lie beneath the calm wave,
Or where reefs and wild rocks hide the poor seaman's 
	grave.

You built all of rosewood, with colors most fair,
With gems and with jewels so costly and rare.


You gave, freely gave of your heart's richest store
To build this fair barque whose brief voyage is o'er.

The clime that you seek beams with radiant light,
But by clouds lowering dark 'tis oft veiled from the
	sight;
And its diamonds gleam brightest with shadows around,
Its flowers oft sweetest in dark, stony ground.

Then seek out each part that has stood this hard test,
Find what is enduring, trustworthy and best,
And build from this wreck of thy once happy dream
A ship that will bear you o'er life's darkest stream.
		HOPE.
	May 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	The age in which we live is one of much
speculation in reference to woman's proper
sphere, her privileges and rights as a citizen
of the world, and considerable jealousy has
been exhibited by some of the lords of creation
in view of her growing influence, and much
uneasiness is felt by this class in beholding her
hitherto latent powers and capabilities making
themselves manifest in the counting room, in
the management and direction of educational
institutions, in the proficiency and throughness
that she exhibits in the practice of medicine
and surgery, as well as in her adaptability to
successfully fill other places of equal responsi-
bility, that men only have heretofore occupied.
Many cowardly thrusts are made at women
because of these aggressions upon the usages
and customs of society that have become venera-
ted by age. The idea of women voting at the
polls, and perhaps, thereby, determining the
result of an election, is viewed as dangerous in
the extreme; and despite all her efforts to se-
cure this privilege sustaining her rightful claim
thereto, by arguments that are unanswerable, and
supported by reasons the most conclusive, yet
her success thus far has been very meagre com-
pared with her untiring efforts—efforts that are
worthy of the bravest men, and will, by and
by, be rewarded beyond her present anticipa-
tion; for if I estimate her rightly she will never
yield until the object sought for is attained, and
as the barriers that stand in the way of her ad-
vancement and promotion are thrown down
one by one, her ingress into places and posi-
tions, now denied her, will be rendered more
easy, and thus, almost without effort, will she
step into and occupy the sphere that by nature
and endowment she is qualified to fill.
	In making these statements I do not wish to
be understood as agreeing with many of the
sentiments of the extreme class, who assert 
propositions, establish hypothesis, and make
deductions therefrom that cannot be sustained
by sound, philosophic reasons, but are in direct 
opposition to all true and correct principles.
Our fitness and adaptability for the various
positions of life is determined by and is in per-
fect harmony with our physical organizations,
as the mental powers are in harmony with and
not adverse to our physical structure. If they
were not disaster and destruction would neces-
sarily follow, and life cease to be. If the world
of mankind, and womankind, too, understood
this principle correctly they would know that
our right to the occupancy of place and posi-
tion, in short, that our true sphere is deter-
mined by our powers of creation.
	This idea, novel as it may be, will bear the
closest scrutiny and the severest criticism; be-
cause it is founded in truth, and is a full and
complete answer to all the theories that are ad-

[Column 2]

vanced upon the much vexed question of
"woman's rights." But as I am only writing for
the women of Mormondom I need not enlarge
upon this point, because there is no serious
discussion among our sisters upon these ques-
tions that are so universally agitated in the
outside world.
	The influence of women upon society at
large is recognized as very powerful, but more
directly is this felt in the home circle, whether
as daughter, sister, wife or mother. There are
among women, as among men, leading spirits;
those who possess minds filled with progressive
thoughts and ideas, and if circumstances de-
prove them from the legitimate exercise of these
natural endowments, then is society not only 
the loser, but these individuals are apt to
chafe and fret, dissatisfied alike with them-
selves, as well as the world at large, and yet,
perhaps, unable to assign a cause for their dis-
satisfaction. On the other hand there are some
who are full of vanity, conceit and foolish
ambition, who force themselves into places they
are totally unfit to fill. Such are the anomal-
ies that are presented in this life, and never
will be fully corrected until God reveals the
true order of things as relating to both man and
woman.
	But it is the influence of women upon society
in the midst of the Latter-day Saints to which
I desire to call special attention. There are
many evils that exist among us that I believe
women are capable of correcting, and to a
great extent are capable of removing. I would 
go further still, and say there are many evils
that their influence might prevent, which is
far better than to correct those which already
exist.
	Woman, as a mother, may be said to have
reached the goal of her earthly existence, for
here, it seems to me, is the place where she has
ample scope for the exercise of those latent
powers which develop and draw out the full
force of all her endowments, both physical and
mental, and in the exercise of which her joy is
made full and complete. As a mother she is a 
more considerate and tender daughter, and her
parents are robbed of no part of her affection
by herself becoming a mother; whereas to-
wards her husband, that intense feeling of love
which rewarded wedlock brings, never would
have exhibited itself had offspring been denied
her, and duty to a husband is not forgotten by
any true woman because of the extra care that
children brings. Here is the true foundation
of society—the state—the nation; and here,
also, is determined its quality, be it good or bad.
Wise statesmanship, necessary in all good gov-
ernments; integrity and honesty in business;
ability, and all the virtues that adorn man and
woman in all the various positions they occupy,
can be traced to, and is the result of the care
and training of good, wise, prudent and loving
mothers. This being the case, even in the out-
side world, what course should the mothers in
Israel pursue who are entrusted with the care
and training of the future children of Zion,
who have been born legal heirs to the Priest-
hood, and in whose lives should not only be
perpetuated the powers, but the righteousness
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and their wives
also, in whom all the kingdoms of the earth
will be blessed.
	Women, favored of God as ours are with
such precious jewels, have no need to spend
their time in unprofitable controversy upon the
securing of rights which the heavens will most


[Column 1]

assuredly secure to every faithful mother in
Israel; but rather should she devote her time
to the proper culture and correct training of
her offspring, and thus secure her future happi-
ness as well as her present enjoyment in the
honorable representation such children will
bring her.
	I pity the woman that feels that the care and
training of children is a burden, an irksome
task, and who gives into the hands of the
stranger that labor to be performed, which
should be the greatest joy of her life. In pro-
portion as this duty is neglected, so will
mothers feel condemned when they see the re-
sult of such neglect in their unworthy children.
But should such neglected children develop
worthy traits and honorable lives the reflection
must come to her that it is the result of other
causes than her motherly care and judicious
training. On the other hand, should any of
her children prove recreant and unworthy she
will still have the satisfaction of knowing that
she has done her duty, and this reflection will
assuage her grief and soothe her disappoint-
ment.
	Those mothers are indeed to be pitied whose
entire time is spent in providing,what we term,
nice food and fine clothing for her children,
and have no spare moments in which to im-
prove their minds and teach them the princi-
ples of eternal life. They may plead as an
excuse that society demands the former at their
hands, thus leaving no time for the latter.
	Then here it is that we would ask that
woman's influence be brought to bear to correct 
a grievous wrong, and let that influence be
universal, for we cannot afford to sacrifice such.
God-like traits at the shrine of the very fashion-
able demands of society; let us rather return
to simple food and raiment, both of which are
more healthful and more pleasing to our Hea-
venly Father.
	Women and children are slaves to society,
and the slavery is becoming more intolerable
every day. Luxurious tastes and habits are
evils in more ways than one. How many
young people are deterred from marrying be-
cause they cannot commence life with as good
a showing as to home,furnishings,appointments,
etc, that are at least the equal, if not the su-
perior, of their friends and acquaintances. To
start out in life as her mother did would be
humiliating in the extreme, for if the bride is
a competent housewife, (which, however,is not
always the case) still society demands that she
employ a servant to do her work. Instead of
her home being rendered doubly dear by fur-
nishing and embellishments as the result of her
own handiwork,the upholsterer and others have
supplied every necessary, except a few trifling
nick-nacks. Too often the time of a young
wife is spent in unprofitable visits, or in the
pursuit of pleasures and enjoyments that she
must provide in return, no matter at what cost
or sacrifice, and all to satisfy the demands of
society.
	We have our progressive Euchre and fashion-
able card parties, as well as other gatherings
that are not at all remarkable for their sim-
plicity, or their intellectual enjoyment. Some
excuse themselves for these indulgences be-
cause dancing now-a-days is too tame, shorn, as
it is,of the fashionable (but health-destroying)
waltz,polka and schottische,which excuse means
that we are determined to copy after the ways
of the world, and should it be forbidden in
one thing, we will introduce another.
	All these things have their tendency to evil,
and woman's influence can be used, if she so
desire, to check the growth of many of these
practices, and thus save much heart sorrow in
the future.
	While I believe we should seek to make
home the happiest and most desirable place on
theearth, by furnishing every legitimate amuse-
ment and pleasure, yet it is at home, also, where

[Column 2]

God should be taught, as well as the principles
of our holy religion. This labor should not be
left exclusively to the Sabbath School, the Prim-
ary Association, or the preacher upon the
Sabbath day, but let parents, in the after life
of their children, receive the credit due for a
faithful performance of their duty in this re-
gard. We need not be afraid of our children
becoming too religious for the tendency is in
the opposite direction, and an unceasing dili-
gence on our part will secure to them no more
of this element than they will absolutely
need. 	
	We might continue this subject, and I think
profitably, to a much greater length, but this
is enough for one article, and the writer hopes
it may receive the consideration which its im-
portance demands.
	JOSEPH E. TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	St. George, Utah, April 20th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At two o’clock to-day the officers and mem-
bers of the Third Ward Relief Society met at
the residence of Father Edson Barney, in honor
of his wife, Sister Lillis Barney, attaining to
her 80th Birthday.
	Mother Barney, with her husband, was bap-
tized into the Church in 1831, and have passed
through all the persecutions and have shared
in all its arduous labors and privations up to
the present day, and have assisted in the con-
struction, dedication, and in ministering in the
Temple at Kirtland, Nauvoo and St. George.
Sister Barney’s children, with grand and great
grandchildren, number over seventy.
	Our social gathering was honored by some
of our aged and most respected veterans, of
whom were Fathers Barney, Hardy, Empy and
Patriarch Johnson.  Our meeting was opened
by singing, and prayer by the Patriarch, after
which Mother Barney addressed the meeting
in a feeling and touching manner, showing her
appreciation of the honor bestowed upon her,
and how much she desired to bless and comfort
all her sisters.  She was followed by Father
Barney, who spoke in an earnest and feeling
manner of his experience in the Church in its
earliest days, after which Father Hardy, Empy
and Johnson bore their testimonies, and by the
Spirit of the Lord, with which they seemed
filled, spoke many things to edify, cheer and
comfort our hearts, and to pronounce blessings
upon our heads.  They were followed by near-
ly all the sisters present, who made spirited
and feeling remarks, and the Spirit of the
Lord seemed to rest upon all present in rich
abundance.
	The table was then spread with everything
that would please the eye and cheer the heart,
and all partook until they were satisfied, after
which we indulged in singing hymns, songs,
toasts and recitations, followed with a closing
address by the Patriarch, and all seemed to
feel with Sister Barney, that it was a time long
to be remembered.  All joined in wishing that
she might live to realize the fulfillment of the
promise made to her by the Patriarch Joseph
Smith Sen.—that she should live to see the
coming of the Son of man upon the earth, in
which she has abiding faith,
	HANNAH NIXON, President,
	AGNES McQUARRIE, Secretary.


TO THE Y. L. M. I. A., BURNHAM.

To the Y. L. M. I. A. of Burnham Ward, New
Mexico.
DEAR GIRLS:
 	Having a feeling of love for you, and a de-
sire to be remembered by you, I endeavor to
write a few lines, which will be but little,


nevertheless we often show our true characters
by little acts, and our life is made up of little
things, therefore we should attend to all our
little duties promptly and faithfully, for the
little acts are the elements of true greatness,
and if we have any good acts they are gifts
from God, and should be cultivated, no matter
how small they are. Even a smile or a kind
word often heals a wounded heart; and remem-
ber, one unkind word often wounds a heart.
We should study never to speak one word to
hurt or injure another, and always try to speak
well of every one, and be not too hasty to
credit evil reports; wait and learn the whole
truth before you decide, and remember, an in-
jurious rumor originated, perhaps, in sportive
gossip, once attached to a person’s name will
remain beside it a blemish and a doubt forever.
But it is too much the nature of all to speak
and believe evil of another, and thus we go on
day after day throwing stones at each other.
	Then let us each one, as daughters of Zion,
shun such a principle, and if we have evil
spoken of us walk lightly by it, and try to
prove to the world it is not true; and let us
remember we make our own character, and
we should ever be ready to cultivate the facul-
ties God has given us.
	There are girls who choose truth and honesty
as a soul companion, and their words and
actions proclaim it, and their feet tread the
paths of virtue; it makes them pure and noble,
and they are loved by all who know them; and
when God looks around for His jewels they
are the girls His eyes rest on. From your
	Friend and Sister,
		CLARA.
Logan, April 17th, 1885.


A WORD FROM WEST WEBER.

	April the 1st the members of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary Associations,
 and a number of the brethren of the West
Weber Ward, met at the school house to pre-
sent Prest. Mary Douglass with a small token
of respect.
	Almost the entire company were there at the
appointed hour, which made it quite a surprise 
to her, not having the slightest idea of the pro-
ceedings. A beautiful easy chair was presented
to her by the sisters, and the following lines
were composed and read by Bro. Archibald Mc-
Farland:
To our honored President and fellow laborer, Sis-
ter Mary Douglass.
	We, The members of the Relief Society,
take pleasure in expressing goodwill toward 
you on this occasion, and request your accept-
ance of a small token of our confidence and es- 
teem, in which we trust you may often enjoy
the rest so justly due one as efficient in every
good work as you have ever been.
	Sister Mary Douglass returned her thanks
to the sisters for the handsome present, and
their goodwill toward her.	
	The West Weber Brass band was in attend-
ance, and played some lively airs. The tables
were spread with the good things of the earth,
and a bounteous dinner was partaken of, which
added much to the pleasure and comfort of the
party.
	After the dinner tables were cleared away,
Bishop J. I. Hart and Counselor James F.
Hunter and Bro. A. McFarland made some
excellent remarks, suitable for the occasion.
	After the speakers were through the Primary
children engaged in a dance. At seven o'clock
in the evening the aged brethren and sisters
convened in a dance and songs.
	A good spirit prevailed, and all enjoyed
themselves. In conclusion it was a day long to
be remembered by all present.
		PUAH S. HART, Secretary,
		FRANCIS C. HART, Ass't Secretary.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	Nellie Johnson, daughter of Heber F. and Lizzie
Johnson, was born May 13th, 1884; died March 17th,
1885.
	LITTLE NELLIE.
Tiny little fingers, but oh! so strong their hold,
Little waxen fingers now so still and cold;
Fold them very gently, for their work is done.
Her earthly sojonrn's ended, her heavenly home is won.

Just for one little moment sent from God above, 
Bringing a gleam of sunshine, lighting hearts with
	love;
Pure as any snowdrop, and as fleeting was her stay,
But her coming brought sweet flowers to life's weary.
	way,

To be remembered often, for their fragrance ne'er will
	die,
And she's waiting for her loved ones in that blessed
	home on high,
Beyond the grave’s dark portal, where all parting will
	be o'er,
Waiting in joy to greet them on the bright golden shore.

So lay it very gently, her little form to rest, 
The germ of life immortal is now with heaven's blest.
"Suffer the little children," said Christ, "to come to
	me,"
And we, too, must be like Him if His kingdom we
	would see.

Lay away the little tokens of her short life on the earth,
Think and speak about her often, as ye gather round
	the hearth,
For 'twill bring pure thoughts and feelings, turning
	them to God,
And His Spirit’s power will help you to bow beneath
the rod.

Ah! there are many households who have lost their
	treasures thus—
But no, not lost! in heaven there’s neither moth nor
	rust.
So dry the scalding teardrops, repress the weary sigh,
And prepare to meet the loved ones in the “sweet bye
and bye."		S. E. R.


LINES

ADDRESSED TO THE CRUCIFIXION VINE, OR PASSION-
FLOWER.

Curious flower-vine of sacred love,
Giving a history of one above;
Teaching a lesson of wondrous truth
To the aged, as well as the youth—
You teach that nature is truly kind,
Though false and wicked are mankind.
She gave a witness, who saw Him slain,
She sympathized with our Savior's pain.
Yes, little flower, you are a living proof,
A silent witness of eternal truth;
You show the nails that held His hands and feet,
And the hammers that drove them complete;
Also the blood veins so gory red,
With the thorny crown that bound His head;
And the long sharp spear beside,
Which pierced so deep His bleeding side.
The three days that He laid in the tomb,
Before He went to His heavenly home,
Are also numbered quite true by thee,
Sweet Floria's history of that tree.
And the twelve apostles we count in thy leaves,
That form the crown for which nature grieves;
And the grave we can find, also,
Among the leaves that round the cross do grow.
Sorrowfully up that cross you did climb,
To witness that awful deed of crime;
And though they killed the body dear
You ever live trusting souls to cheer;
Full of life, thou eternal evergreen,
Like His Spirit you so surely seem;
Ever with your green hand pointing above,
Where ever lives One who died for love.
"Passion-flower" is thy beauteous name,
Great and worthy is thy sweet, fair fame;
Among all the children of all men
You are the Great Author's pen.
Ah! how simple, how easy, how plain
To read Thy words of suffering pain,
How great thy mission, little vine—


How grand, how gloriously sublime!
Oh! who can doubt, when they gaze on thee,
That Jesus died for us upon that tree.
	M. O. KELTING.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"Thursday, the 19th. We passed through the
town as soon as it was light, and before the in-
habitants were risen from their slumbers, meet-
ing with no opposition, but we had not proceed-
ed many miles before one wagon broke down,
and by the time that was repaired wheels ran
off from others, and such like incidents con-
tinued through the day to impede our progress.
When we started in the morning we intended
to arrive in Clay County that day, but in vain.
At a seasonable hour we encamped on an ele-
vated piece of ground between two branches of
Fishing River, having traveled about fifteen
miles. Fishing River, at this point, was com-
posed of seven small streams,and those between
which we encamped were two of them. As we
halted and were making preparations for the
night, five men, armed with guns, rode into our
camp, and told us we should see hell before
morning,and their accompanying oaths partook
of all the malice of demons. They told us
that sixty men were coming from Richmond,
Ray County, and seventy more from Clay Co.,
sworn to our utter destruction. The weather
was pleasant at this time.
	"During this day the Jackson County mob,
to the number of about two hundred, made
arrangements to cross the Missouri River,
about the mouth of Fishing River, at Williams
Ferry, into Clay County, and be ready to meet
the Richmond mob near Fishing River Ford,
for our utter destruction; but after the first
scow load of about forty had been set over the
river, the scow, in returning, was met by a
squall and had great difficulty in reaching the
Jackson side by dark.
	"Soon after the five men left the camp,swear-
ing vengeance, we discovered a small black
cloud rising in the west, and in twenty minutes,
or there abouts, it began to rain and hail, and
this was the squall that troubled the Jackson
boat. The storm was tremendous; wind and
rain, hail and thunder met them in great wrath,
and soon softened their direful courage, and
frustrated all their designs to "kill Joe Smith
and his army." Instead of continuing a can-
nonading, which they commenced—the sun
about one hour high—they crawled under
wagons, into hollow trees, filled one old shanty,
etc., till the storm was over, when their ammu-
nition was soaked,and the forty in Clay County
were extremely anxious, in the morning, to re-
turn to Jackson,having experienced the pitiless
peltings of the storm all night; and as soon as
arrangements could be made this "forlorn
hope" took the "back track" for Independence,
to join the main body of the mob, fully satisfied,
as were those survivors of the company who
were drowned, that when Jehovah fights they
would rather be absent. The gratification is
too terrible.
	"Very little hail fell in our camp, but from
half to a mile around the stones, or lumps of
ice, cut down the crops of corn and vegetation
generally, even cutting limbs from trees; them-
selves twisted into withes by the winds. The
lightning flashed incessantly, which caused it
to be so light in our camp, through the night,
that we could discern the most minute object;
and the roaring of the thunder was tremendous.
The earth trembled and quaked, the rain fell
in torrents, and, united, it seemed as though
the mandate of vengeance had gone forth from
the God of battles to protect His servants from
the destruction of their enemies, for the hail

[Column 2]

fell on them and not on us, and we suffered no
harm except the blowing down of some of our
tents and getting some wet, while our enemies
had holes made in their hats, and otherwise re-
ceived damage, even the breaking of their rifle
stocks, and the fleeing of their horses through
fear and pain.
	"Many of my little band sheltered in an old
meeting house through this night, and in the
morning the water in Big Fishing River was
about forty feet deep; the previous evening it
was no more than to our ankles, and our ene-
mies swore that the water rose thirty feet in
thirty minutes in the little Fishing River.
	"Friday, the 20th. We went five miles on
the prairie to procure food for ourselves and
horses, and establish ourselves for the moment
in some secure place where we could defend
ourselves from the rage of our enemies, and
while in this situation, on Saturday, the 21st,
Col. Sconce, with two other leading men from
Ray County, came to see us, desiring to know
what our intentions were; "For," said he, "I
see there is an an almighty power which pro-
tects this people, for I started from Richmond,
Ray County, with a company of armed men,
having a full determination to destroy you, but
was kept back by the storm, and was not able
to reach you."
	"When he entered our camp he was seized
with such a trembling that he was obliged to
sit down and compose himself; and when he
had made known the object of their visit, I
arose, and addressing them, gave a relation of
the sufferings of the Saints in Jackson County,
and also of our persecutions generally, and
what we had suffered by our enemies for our
religion, and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them
clothing etc., and to reinstate them upon their
own lands, and that we had no intention to
molest or injure any people, but only to ad-
minister to the wants of our afflicted friends,
and that the evil reports circulated about us
were false, and got up by our enemies to pro-
cure our destruction.
	"When I had closed a lengthy speech, the
spirit of which melted them into compassion,
they arose and offered me their hands and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us, and they wept when they heard of our
afflictions and persecutions, and that our inten-
tions were good. Accordingly they went forth
and rode among the people, and made un-
wearied exertions to allay the excitement.
	A revelation was given while they were en-
camped on Fishing River, in Missouri, June
22nd, 1834.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Women are soon to be employed as telegraph
operators in Japan.
	This year's vote on the municipal woman
suffrage bill in the Massachusetts Legislature
is 61 ayes to 130 noes, and 7 pairs. Last year
it was 50 ayes to 144 noes, and 11 pairs.
	The Austrian Ladies' String Band is giving
concerts in London under the direction of
Mme. Leopoldine Auer, of the Conservatoire of
Vienna. The twelve performers are all ladies
and prize medalists. The orchestral entertain-
ment they afford is varied by several songs,
contributed by Miss Hochheimer.—Ex.
	The London Daily News of April 11 con-
tains a graphic and picturesque account of the
ceremony attending the bestowal of degrees
upon the Prince and Princess of Wales by the
Royal University of Ireland. The Prince re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Laws, the Prin-
cess that of Doctor of Music.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00.  A liberal discount to
reular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of 
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROTEST!

	That these are momentous and eventful times
are only weak terms of expressing what is now
transpiring in the midst of this people. It is
frequently remarked that these things have
been anticipated; they are in fulfillment of
prophecy, but does that make the situation less
important, and is it not our duty to protest
against injustice and wrongs, against those who
seek to take away our place and despoil us of
our inheritances, as much as though these
prophecies had never been uttered? Certainly.
The Lord has said importune for your rights, lay
your grievances before the chief men of the na-
tion, and petition for redress of your wrongs.
And so, after having borne insult and injury,
the brethren having been condemned to prison
without testimony, and many obliged to flee to
avoid being entrapped in snares set to catch
them, after having suffered these, and many
other grave indignities, the people, acting upon
the suggestion of leading men, who are presumed
to be influenced by a higher power than the
Territorial courts, suggested a way, by means
of which the people could give expression to
the grievances under which they were suffering,
and protest against the wrongs that were being
inflicted.
	Accordingly, a committee of twenty-two in-
telligent and representative men from all
parts of the Territory were appointed at
the General Conference in Logan, April,
1883, to draft a series of resolutions, and a 
protest, to be sent to the President of the
United States, asking for redress or investigation,
and protesting against further inhuman pro-
ceedings until a special report could be made.
This Declaration of Grievances and Protest were
carefully prepared, and every point now under
discussion made specific and clear, and presented
in the most respectful manner so that there
could be no offense taken, even in the wording
of the document; and after the committee had
completed the work, a mass meeting was called,
to convene in the county town of each Stake of
Zion, on Saturday, the 2nd of May, to ratify in
general assembly the Declaration and Protest,
and to give expression to the feelings and senti-
ments of the people on the subject, which, at
the present time lies nearest their hearts.
	The mass meeting held in Salt Lake City
convened in the large Tabernacle at one o'clock
p.m., on the day appointed, and was a large and
an enthusiastic gathering of a multitude of peo-
pel. Hon. Wm. Jennings called the vast assem-
bly to order, and nominated Hon. John T. Caine
as chairman. The motion was seconded and
carried unanimously. Heber M. Wells was
elected Secretary, and proceeded to read the call
for the meeting. Masers Wm. Jennings, T.
G. Webber, E. A. Smith, C. D. Brinton, and
Miss Mary E. Cook and Dr. Romania B. Pratt

[Column 2]

were nominated and sustained as Vice Chairmen,
and Mr. Wm. M. Stewart and Mrs. Cornella H.
Clayton as Assistant Secretaries. The choir
sang, "O say what is truth?', Prayer was of-
fered by Apostle H. J. Grant. Music by the
S. S. Union brass band.
	The Chairman then stated briefly the object
of the meeting, and made the opening speech,
in which he gave a graphic description of some
of the persecutions and hardships bravely en-
dured by this people, and related something of
their history since the first settlement of 
Utah.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney then read, in a power-
ful and forcible manner, the Declaration of
Grievances and Protest, to the President and
People of the United States. The reading was
greeted with frequent bursts of hearty and pro-
longed applause. Hon. James Sharp, Mayor of
the city, moved the adoption of the Declaration
and Protest. Seconded.
	Bishop John. Q. Cannon made a short, but
strong and forcible speech, in which he stated
that this protest was not made with cringing or
shrinking, but with an unflinching determina-
tion to maintain the right. "The causes which
impel us are mighty. The only parallel in
American history was at the commencement of
the Revolutionary war." At the close music by
the brass band.
	Junius F. Wells Esq. delivered a telling
speech on the situation at the present time, and
illustrated his arguments by positive testimony
of facts, which are beyond contradiction. Music
by Fireman's band.
	Hon. F. S. Richards made the most purely
logical speech of the day. Referred to the Utah
Commissioners and their work, the test oath
they had introduced, and closed by saying that
whatever might be the result of this appeal to 
the American people, "History will do us
justice, and we will be vindicated in the protest
adopted here to-day."  Prof. J. J. Daynes per-
formed a solo on the grand organ.
	B. H. Roberts Esq. was the last of the speak-
ers. His manner was very earnest and impres-
sive, and he spoke feelingly of the homes of the
people and the rights of freemen, and denoun-
ced unsparingly the official acts of the Governor
and the courts in dealing with "Mormons."
	The speakers, with the exception of the chair-
man, are all young men born and reared in
Utah, and they have shown pretty well of what
mettle they are made. And there are thousands
like them in these mountain vales.
	The Declaration of Grievances and Protest
were ratified and adopted with all the enthu-
siasm of a people whose souls were inspired with
zeal for the cause they represented. Messrs
John T. Caine, John W. Taylor, John Q. Can-
non were unanimously chosen as a delegation to
proceed to Washington and present the docu-
ment to the President of the United States.
	The choir sang the national anthem "America."
Adjourned sin[-] die. Benediction by Bishop O.
F. Whitney.


[Column 1]

SOME IMPORTANT MATTERS. 

	Since the last issue of our paper, on the 1st of
May, several events of great importance to this
people have transpired. Four of the Elders of
Israel have been sentenced to the Penitentiary
for obeying a vital principle of the religion
which is a part, as it were, of their very life.
	Persecution seems indeed a portion of the
heritage bequeathed to the Saints of God, and
can those who live in the last dispensation of
the fulness of times expect to escape it? It
"must needs be that offences come," said the
Savior, "but woe, be to them by whom they
come!" And to-day it is our firm conviction
that those brethren who are imprisoned for the

[Column 2]

Gospel's sake are happier in their prison than
those who were the means of sending them to
that miserable place, built solely for persons who
are guilty of actual crime. These brethren are
innocent of evil, but a law has been made to
make a crime of that which is not sin in the
sight of God. In fact of what God himself has
positively approved,if one believes the Scriptures.
How many more must yet pass through this try-
ing ordeal is not known; but what Latter-day
Saint can help rejoicing in the heroism and
integrity of those valiant men. Is it not a testi-
mony to all the world that they are not ashamed
of the Gospel of Christ which they have es-
poused, and that they are willing to suffer rather
than deny a principle revealed for the salvation
and exaltation of the human family?
	The opposing influence and powers of dark-
ness may be, and perhaps are strong against
this people at the present time, but they cannot
break asunder the bonds that bind the Saints
together, the covenant people of God, nor can
they hinder the increase of His people through
the channel which He has appointed, viz, "the
marriage relation," which they specify and lay
such stress upon. They may have power to
break up some homes, temporarily, and scatter
the families, but though separated from each
other, God will be with them and will bring
them together again, for their trust is in Him
who holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and who can command even the waves of the
sea, and say, "Thus far shalt thou go and no
farther," and here shall thy proud waves be
stayed.
	The Latter day Saints have nothing to fear if
they are only faithful and true to the covenants
they have made to God and to each other. The
Scripture says, "Fear not those that can kill
the body, but rather fear Him who can cast both
soul and body into hell." But while we watch
and pray that we may be preserved from evil in-
fluences and the powers of darkness, and from
wicked and designing men, who rejoice when
the servants of God are betrayed into their hands,
let us watch, as well as pray, and guard our-
selves from all foes within and without, and be
wise and prudent in all we do or say, and "re-
member them that are in bonds as bound with
them." They are suffering for a principle, one
that is repugnant to the world because of its
purity, for the world loves its own. The very
men who condemn the Latter-day Saints for the
practice of a pure and holy principle, which
they themselves acknowledge to be a part of the
religious faith of the "Mormon" people, have,
during the recent trials, admitted that the Ed-
munds law was made specially for those who
entered into the marriage relation, and not for
those who were guilty of adultery and similar
offences against good order and decency.
	So much for so much; those who are thus as-
sociated should look upon this as an honor,
though unwittingly rendered; thus, even these
officials, who are seeking to bring this people
into bondage, are bound to acknowledge a cer-
tain superiority in the Latter-day Saints. And
did not Judge Zane admit, in his answer to Bro.
Musser's questions, that the wives were equal,
when he said he might take either one of them
as his wife, but only one?
	It is plain to see that every now and then they
get beyond their level, and make the rulings of
the court a jest and a byword. But the Lord
will confound them, by and by, as completely as
He did the people who tried to make a tower
that would reach unto heaven, if not in the
same way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the the an-
nual meeting of the Relief Society of the 19th
Ward of this city, on Tuesday, May 5th, at two


p.m., Mrs. Rachel Whipple presiding. The
minutes and annual report were read and ap-
proved, and the meeting was addressed by Sis-
ters E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, E. B. Wells,
M. I. Horne, L. W. Kimball, C. C. Raleigh,Ann
Player, H. P. Fulsom J. McKinny, Bishop
Watson, Bro. Bowman and Prest. Whipple. It
was an interesting meeting, and a good spirit
prevailed throughout. The Society have a very
good and comfortable building of their own, and
have done an immense work for the needy in
the ward, which is a very large one, and their
labors are greatly appreciated by their Bishop,
with whom they work in the most complete
harmony.
	THE recent decision of the Supreme Court of
United States in the Utah cases is certainly a
very important ruling, and should be carefully
read and studied by the people of Utah—women
as well as men, because much is involved in the
interpretation of its proceedings that is of vital
interest to this people. The part which relates
to the registration and elections is one that de-
mands immediate attention, as it gives to some
that were heretofore excluded from the polls, the
right to register and vote, but there are certain
rules and regulations which have a special
bearing upon this matter, which render it posi-
tively necessary that every person should under-
stand intelligently whether he or she is entitled
to register or not. It is such a complicated
matter that it would be very easy for a person
to make an innocent mistake, which might have
a very serious result. In view of the doubtful
points to those who are unsophisticated in such
matters, yet anxious to exercise the right of
franchise, it seems wisdom to say, "Be sure you
are right, and then go ahead." There is cer-
tainly need of every vote that can legally be cast,
but let all things be done in accordance with the
regulations given to govern these matters, so
that there can be no "after-claps."
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT has now completed
its thirteenth volume. It was established on
the first day of June, 1872, and has been issued
twice every month from that day until the
present time. It has most certainly been a
blessing and help to the women of Zion, and has
also been the means, in many instances, of as-
sisting, indirectly, to proclaim the glad tid-
ings of salvation. The opinions, views and
sentiments of the women of Zion have been ex-
pressed to the world through its columns, and
their organizations well represented. It has
been the earnest and careful endeavor of those
engaged in the labors connected with this jour-
nal, to make it representative and reliable, as a
religious paper, and the greatest attention has
been given to keeping its pages free from any-
thing that would have the slightest tendency to
evil of any name or nature. It gives the oppor-
tunity for "Mormon" women to express their
feelings on any matter connected with woman's
work, and has been the promoter of literary cul-
ture, as can be proven, when we refer to the
crude articles from the pen of some of its con-
tributors, who to-day can express themselves in
the most able and eloquent manner, and whose
articles, graphically written, and possessing the
elements of literary strength, are attracting the
attention of all the Latter-day Saints. The
WOMAN'S EXPONENT does carry joy into many
a household, and the sisters, in their country
homes, many of them, testify that they look
forward to its coming as to the face of an old
and dear friend. Homely it may be, but genuine
in character and staunch in integrity to the Gos-
pel and its principles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SENSIBLE TALK.

	A talk with wise judges and law-makers, and
he who kissed the lids of his mother's gilt edged 

[Column 2]

good old Bible. We will open and read on its
sacred pages and kiss the leaves within, where-
on is written and stamped, that God blessed
men and women who entered into the marriage
relation as the Latter-day Saints are practicing
it now. That divine law was given to the an-
cients by the great Law-Giver, who rules the
destinies of kings, presidents, potentates, and
the destinies of nations; who will turn and over-
turn all things to suit His own purposes; who
has power to set up kingdoms and overthrow
the mighty powers of the earth; and if the in-
habitants of the earth will not hear and listen to
the last message sent to them through prophets,
revelators and ministers who hold divine au-
thority to preach the everlasting Gospel to the
nations of the earth in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times, the great God will come
out of His hiding place and vex the nations with
a sore vexation. Already war and devastation
is stalking abroad in the land, and thunderings,
earthquakes, fire and vapors of smoke will arise
with a louder and more stupendous voice than
a man can utter, but their testimony will stand
and live forever, for their words are eternal
truths that cannot be altered.
	No man on earth can change the decree of the
true and living God, who has called upon all
mankind to repent of their sins and turn to
newness of life, and fill their bottles with new
wine and have oil in their lamps, which is the
Holy Ghost, "To lead them into all truth, show
them things past, present and to come," which
power, authority and knowledge is given to men
who are now persecuted, fined, imprisoned and
harassed for the word of God and the testimony
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It says in
sacred writ "that every word shall be established
by two or three witnesses." How much more,
then, will the testimony of thousands of Latter-
day Saints be established, who have reiterated
and declared that the kingdom of God is again
set up on the earth, no more to be thrown down
nor given to another people. That these things
of which we speak have been done by divine
command, by holy messengers who have been
seen and conversed with at different times.
God says in Isaiah "that he will do His work,
His strange work, and bring to pass His act,His
strange act, a marvelous work and a wonder,"
etc.
	I will quote from Psalms, as the language
shows God's power over all things: "The Lord
hath prepared His throne in all the heavens,
and His kingdom ruleth over all. Bless the
Lord, ye, His angels, that excel in strength,that
do his commandments, hearkening unto the
voice of his word.
	"Bless ye the Lord, all ye His hosts, ye minis-
ters of His that do his pleasure.
	"Bless the Lord, all his works in all places of
His domain; bless the Lord, O my soul!"
	The Latter-day Saints believe that God has
all power in heaven and on the earth; that He is
the same yesterday, to-day and forever; that He
will gather all things into one, both things in
heaven and on the earth, and that He has set
His hand again to accomplish His work, to
make an end of sin, and bring in a reign of
righteousness.
	If the President will turn to Romans, iv; 13,
and read—"That Abraham should be heir of the
world through the righteousness of faith." That
he is the heir, and cohabited with Hagar and
Sarah, and of these two wives had Ishmael and
Isaac, and God talked with Abraham face to
face. Did God accuse him of committing a
crime? No, indeed, but blessed his children of
both wives, and said to him, "I know him, that
he will command his children and his household
after him." So Jacob must have been command-
ed of his grandparent to marry plural wives, for
unto Jacob the promise was made, and he ac-

[Column 3]

knowledged unto Esau, "The children God hath
so graciously given thy servant," Genesis
xxxiii; 5.
	Do our law-makers think God will approve of
these unlawful proceedings, when it is most
natural and consistent to believe that God wil
choose a people that are willing and obedient, to
raise up seed to Abraham. How can these men
stand in the presence of the great patriarch and
the Savior of the world, who justified them and
said their seed should be as numerous as the
stars in the firmament? And Jacob was called
Israel became of his numerous posterity, and
the names of his twelve sons, making the
twelve tribes, should be written on the twelve
gates of the New Jerusalem. How can they
enter through those gates? John says there are
twelve angels there at the gates. When they
fine and imprison the very men and women
that God has commanded to practice this order 
of marriage, and says this is the only law of
marriage that He will acknowledge in time and
eternity; but eternal life is a free gift to all who
will obey His word and enter in at the door. If
we try to climb up any other way than that
which has been appointed by the Savior we shall
be accounted thieves and robbers. Will the au-
thorities of the land make the Latter-day Saints
climb into the kingdom of heaven as thieves
and robbers, when the good Shepherd has made
the straight and narrow way so plain "that a
poor way-faring man need not err though a
fool?" The cry of our enemies is, only two per
cent who practice plural marriage can be saved.
A President stands at the head of a nation, and
Abraham and his children stand at the head of
nations; for he that abideth a celestial law shall
have a celestial glory. There is no private inter-
pretation put upon Scripture. He says to all
follow me; I am the life and the light; keep my
commandments by your works or your faith is
dead.
	The God of heaven gave the ten command-
ments; He gave laws to the house of Israel; the
Savior gave commandments in the Gospel plan
of salvation to His servants to establish His
kingdom and save mankind, and He changed
them not. In the last times in which we live
He has given authority to men to establish it
for ever. The invitation is to all. "Go ye into
all the world and preach the Gospel to every
creature; he that believeth and is baptized, re-
penting and forsaking his sins, shall be saved,"
etc. Read last chapters of St. Matthew and
Mark. Read all Scripture and you can get a
correct understanding of the Gospel as our
Savior taught it when He was on the earth. We
must obey the law of the Gospel and its ordin-
ances, to be benefited in this life and the world
to come. Though the world spurn these things
they are verily true. The door into the kingdom
of God is baptism for the remission of sins. The
Savior says He entered in by the door, and the
porter must hold the keys of the holy Priest-
hood to open the door to believers. "For no
man taketh this honor to himself; he must be
called of God as was Aaron." By men taking
this honor to themselves, they have changed
the ordinances and broken the everlasting cove-
nant, and preached for hire and divined for
money; but what little good has been done in
the religious world, has been by the divine
teachings of our Savior, which should be em-
bodied in all things; but the time is now when
they are legislatured against us, and the cry is
"Great is the goddess Diana of the Ephesians."
And an inscription is raised to the unknown
God, and if we do not worship at these shrines
we must be imprisoned. We do not want to be
packed in their peck measures, nor deny the
sacred word which we revere. We do not want
our sons and daughters to become infidels by
swearing against a principle that is the very


foundation of Bible doctrine. The mothers of
these children have labored hard to teach them
that what is written in the Old and New Testa-
ment is true and will have a bearing on their
eternal destiny; and that they sprung from these
plural marriages away back to the Patriarchs,
and that they must not deny their original an-
cestry, but keep an eye to the mark; that they
must do the works of Abraham to become his
children; and according to the New Testament
he did the works of righteousness.
	Our motto is reform and regeneration, to cease
from all evil, lead pure and holy lives, that we
may be prepared to meet our Savior at His
second advent to the earth, for it reads, “This
same Jesus whom ye saw ascend up into heaven
shall in like manner descend from heaven;” and
He will come in the clouds of heaven, with all
the holy angels with Him, and every eye shall
see Him.
	Why cannot the Latter day Saints be left
alone to enjoy their mountain home, that they
have so diligently labored for, and left to read
their Bible and understand it as God is its inter-
preter.
	“Know this, that every man is free
	To choose his life, or what he’ll he;
	For this eternal truth is given,
	That God will force no man to heaven.

	He'll call, persuade, direct him right,
	Bless him with wisdom, love and light;
	In nameless ways be good and kind,
	But never force the human mind.”

	We pray that He may enlighten our minds,
enlarge our understandings, that we may learn
more fully of His ways and walk In His paths.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF THE MOMENT, WITH
SELECTIONS.

	How dreadful and depressing it is to any 
thinking mind to dwell, even for a moment, on
the battle field of nations, and the destruction
of human life in consequence, the mighty mass
of men sent into eternity, unknown and unre-
corded. Such is human passion, and such is
war! Yet the world has deified its great warriors
and starved its benefactors. What sort of pro-
portion is there between the benefit conferred by
the English nation upon the Duke of Marl-
borough in the victory of Blenheim, and that
bestowed upon England and the world by John
Milton in the gift of "Paradise Lost?" None at
all. The work done by the poet is so infinitely
superior to that accomplished by the warrior,
that a comparison can scarcely be rendered.
And yet the Parliament and Queen of Great
Britian bestowed upon the Duke,after the battle
of Blenheim,a royal diadem with royal revenues
besides devoting five hundred thousand pounds
sterling to build a palace fit for so great a warrior
to live In! While John Milton was obliged to
sell the copyright of his great poem for ten
pounds, and died comparatively unknown and
poor.
	By that great poem thousands of people have
been literally gaining a subsistence in England,
and making their fortunes, to say nothing of the
tens of thousands whose minds have been in-
vigorated and enlarged by feeding on it; while,
by the great victory, and the magnificent re-
ward of its revenues, that might have supported
thousands, have been devoted exclusively of
the luxury and splendor of a single family! This
grand residence bears the name of "Blenheim."
	H. T. K.


TRIED AS BY FIRE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	I look around me daily and see the workings 
of wicked and designing men, who are striving


hard, but in vain, to overthrow the work of God.
How little do they understand what will result
from their present labors.  My heart bleeds for
them.  I do sincerely pity them, for they know
not what they do.  They are groping in utter
darkness, while we have the blessed light of
revelation, which is brighter than the sun at
noonday.
	Thus, looking at the trying picture, I feel to
wait patiently till the time of God arrives, when
all men shall have their just due.  We now can
appeal to only one more court on this earth for
justice, and if that right is refused us, which
God has given us—to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences—we can
then appeal to a higher court, where justice is
given to all men.
	Then woe to the nations of the earth! for
God has decreed its destruction, and His judg-
ment must come.  They cannot rule the courts
of heaven, therefore, they must, without doubt,
reap the reward of their labors; yet I do not
wish them harm.  No; I would to God they
could see the folly of their ways, and the final
result of their wretched doings.  They have
caused families to mourn and be left without
their leaders and protectors, left to protect them-
selves the best way they can.  But the families
that to day mourn the absence of those they hold
dearer than their own lives, are firm, and with
the aid of God Almighty, will bear it all, even
unto a most cruel death, for their holiest of re-
ligions, which was given personally from God to
man.
	Though being a member of the family of one
of those brethren that have been unlawfully
sent to that far off Detroit, I feel to acknowledge
the hand of Providence in all our circumstances.
Though bereft of our leader—through prayerful-
ness, and continually striving to follow his
teachings, in obeying the commands of God, we
find comfort in the loneliness we endure. Within
our home is a happiness that the world cannot
dream of.  They cannot comprehend the true,
honest love that exists in our happy home, as
we gather round our hearth and converse upon
the goodness of God, and His loving kindness
towards His people.  Could they but under-
stand they would at once say, There is a happy
home.  Look how cheerful the faces of those
women and children are; they are united in all
good.  How tidy and cleanly the rooms are!
There, on either side of the bright burning fire,
are the chairs of the mothers, which, when the
evening task is performed, are ready to receive
them.
	Each Sabbath finds them fasting and praying
for the Saints of God, for all those who are in
trying circumstances.  Thus, in our comfortable,
but not richly decorated home, we find ourselves
enjoying the comforting spirit of peace, and are
contented that the will of God be done, and the
beloved absent one be returned in His own due
time; while he, in his far away prison home, is
content with his lot until the Lord sees fit to
grant it otherwise, and feels to thank God that
prison doors have been closed upon him for
serving Him who is greater than all.
	Feeling that I have written enough, I desire
the blessing of heavenly comfort to abide in the
habitations of all the Saints.  I remain,
	A sister in the Gospel of truth,
	GRACE.
Omer, April 20th, 1885.


A QUESTION, OR WHY IS IT?
				------
   Why did our Savior teach His disciples to
pray, saying, "Our Father who art in heaven,
Hallowed be Thy name.  Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done in earth as it is heaven,” etc.
	Would He have taught them to pray for
this if it would never come to pass?  For He


certainly had a prophetic view of the future.
Now, if this is to be, how will it be brought
about? Is not Christ's sermon on the Mount
the first stepping stone? Those who apply
their minds strictly and faithfully in observ-
ance of its mandates, will always find a happy,
peaceful spirit attending their efforts; also a
feeling of charity, a light and intelligence
which they did not perceive before, called the
good Spirit.
	This good Spirit will expand the mind and
enlarge the soul, if cultivated and exercised, as
it certainly will be by applying our minds to
learn this one, and great lesson. It is
such an important lesson that we cannot ad-
vance to any perfection without it; as also its
spirit attending our efforts.
	This sermon has had some attention given it
by the churches—just enough to hold society
together. But this will not be sufficient in our
day. Do you ask why? Because the day is
far spent, and the time is at hand when the
Bridegroom is coming to reign on the earth.
He has sent a message to this effect. We, as
a people, have received it. Those, who in the
sincerity of heart, believe in the Gospel of
Jesus Christ, are benefited by its precious
truths, and do realize that every word which
He has spoken is true and faithful. There
were some who followed because of the loaves
and fishes. They are doing the same to-day.
But such have not much depth of root, and
when the heat of the sun is felt they wither.
	Let us be faithful in learning this important
lesson, as also those given for this dispensation;
remembering, though heaven and earth pass
away, not one word which He (the Savior) has
spoken, shall fail.
	M. E. KIMBALL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	ALMO, CASSIA CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Thinking that a few lines from Almo would
not be out of place, we take pleasure in writing
you.
	Our Relief Society is trying to do the best
it can under the circumstances, owing to our
much scattered condition. Some having to
come from two to four miles to meeting, we
thought it advisable not to hold our meetings
through the winter season; but since warm
weather has come we hold our meetings regular.
We have twenty-four members enrolled. The
average attendance is about fifteen. We enjoy
a good spirit, and all seem willing to do their
part the best they can. We hold our testi-
mony meetings once in two weeks, and our
working meetings once a month.
	We are all young and inexperienced, but
we don't feel to be behind in working for the
cause of truth. The EXPONENT is an ever
welcome visitor to us, and we read it with in-
terest.
	We have had a very mild winter, and the
health of the people, in general, is good, for
which we feel very thankful.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we
are, respectfully,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARY A. WAKE, Prest.,
		MARGARET E. WARD, Sec.

	MEADOWVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	For two years the Relief Society of this
place have not been holding meetings, having
no poor to attend to, until September 28th,
1884, Prest. Julia Lindsay, with other sisters
and brethren, also Bishop J. Kimball and
Counselors met with the members of the So-
ciety and advised them to resume their meet-
ings, since which time we have held meetings


monthly, on fast day, at two p.m. The Society
is presided over by Sister Ann M. Eldredge,
who is a good, faithful, energetic woman, and I
believe we fully appreciate the privilege of
living in this "out of the way place," and being
"nobody in particular.”
 We enjoy much of the Spirit of the Lord in
our meetings, and pray the Lord to bless those
of our brethren and sisters who are being per-
secuted for righteousness' sake, and hasten the
time when Zion shall be free.
  Wishing every success to your welcome little
paper we remain with you in all good works.
SECRETARY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES FROM RIVERDALE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Permit me, through the columns of your
paper, to say a few words about the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
Riverdale. Our Association is in a prosper-
ous condition. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and of late have had a very good at-
tendance.
	Our president, Sister Maria Russell, with
her counselors, Sisters Nancy Bybee and Lu-
cinda Bingham, attend their meetings very
regularly, and take a great interest in the wel-
fare of the young ladies, and do all in their
power to make the meetings instructive and
interesting. Owing to the day school being in
seesion during the week, we are deprived of
having the school house to meet in, and hence
we are obliged to meet at some private resi-
dence. The exercises of our meetings consist
of select readings, essays, songs, lectures and
speeches; we also have one of the first princi-
ples of the Gospel given to us for a subject; we
prepare ourselves to speak upon this subject
for the next meeting,
	We have a very good list of teachers in our
Association, who visit the ward monthly, thus
doing much good toward bringing the sisters
out to meeting.
	At our last meeting the President spoke to
some extent to the mothers, as there were quite
a number present, showing them the necessity
of urging their daughters to attend their meet-
ings regularly, and also said that the mothers
should meet with their daughters and speak to
them and encourage them in the work that
they were engaged in.
	Let me urge all my young sisters to attend
faithfully to all their duties and meetings, for
we can plainly see that they are productive of
much good, and the Spirit of the Lord will
dwell in richer abundance with us if we will
unite one with another in doing all the good
that we can in trying to roll on this great
work, and strive to carry out the good instruc-
tions that we hear from time to time.
	At the Young Ladies' Conference, held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Friday March 13th,
there were a great many good instructions giv-
en and a good spirit prevailed. Some of the
instructions were brought to our meeting for
the benefit of those who were not able to at-
tend the conference.
	Hoping that you will reserve space in your
paper for these few lines, I am,
	Yours Respectfully,
		ELIZA W. CHILD.
Riverdale, Weber Co., March 25th, 1885.


SANPETE PRIMARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On our late visit to the Primaries of this—
Sanpete Stake of Zion—we found the children
progressing very satisfactorily; indeed it seems
as if it would be impossible for such as those
we met with to do otherwise; blest as they are
by being born of parents who serve the Lord,


and shielded as they are from contaminating
vices of the world, taught no false doctrines,
but taught true principles, to keep the laws of
God, and yet with enough evil around to make
an unmistakable contrast to good; and with
such facilites as they have for learning, in
schools and associations, blest with healthy
bodies and pure minds, we naturally look for
no small results from such a combination of
causes.
	We found the sisters in charge of laboring
assiduously to improve the hearts and intellects
of the little folks. There is a notable im-
provement in the selection of their exercises,
and we were often touched to tears during the
rendition of them. Children but three years
old took part in the programme in a way that 
drew tears of gratitude, to the Giver of all
good gifts, from the eyes of the older ones.
	Presidents Peterson and Maiben encouraged
us with their presence and kind words, as also
a number of the bishops.
	The Primary Associations take a pride in
adding their mite to help build the Temple at
Manti. We were shown a counterpane, which
had been  bought at the Temple store, of which
the owner was justly proud. It was under-
stood to have been donated by one of the P.
A. of this stake, At Fountain Green Sister
Collard, the Prest., told me that the P. A. of 
that place, last harvest, turned out enmasse and 
gleaned wheat enough to buy the cotton; each
able girl member patched a block exactly the
same size and pattern. The blocks were then
joined and beautifully bordered with a deep,
heavy fringe.
	Of the nineteen Associations of this stake
fifteen have held  fairs, several of them two or
three. These fairs, besides their industrial ad-
vancements, are also of some financial benefit,
as they enable the Primaries to supply them-
selves with the necessary books, help build the
Temple, and in some instances we are informed
they have donated to the Deseret Hospital.
The dear little souls are so anxious to do, that
if they are only led and directed with love and
care they will ultimately be men and women
of faith, virtue and integrity, making the
world better wherever they go.
	We were received with the most cordial wel-
comes wherever we went, and enjoyed our
visit with our little friends, as well as with the
older brethren and sisters with whom we met.
We were favored with having our much es-
teemed and beloved sister, Mary A. P. Hyde,
join us at Spring City and accompany us to
Mt. Pleasant, Fairview and back. A severe
snow storm prevented us from visiting Indian-
ola Primary, which we regretted exceedingly.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	HELENA MADSEN,
	LUCY BERGLAND.


[Column 1]

PRIMARY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Primary anniversary meeting of the
20th Ward convened in the school house on
April the 24th, 1885. Present on the stand:
President Emma Toone, Sisters H. T. King,
M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor and
Dr. Ferguson. Of the brethren, Counselor
Dunbar, George A. Romney and Wm. Willes.
Bro. Lewis is the oldest man in the ward, and
it was his eighty-seventh birthday.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Never too late."
Prayer by George Romney Jun. Singing
"Haste to the Primary." Organist, Miss
Savage. Minutes of the last meeting read
and accepted. Then followed songs and reci-
tations by twenty-five of the boys and girls; all
were good, but I must especially name a very
little lady—Kate Romney—her manners and
appearance were sweet, and her organ solo was
beautifully rendered; her time excellent. There
were others I would like to speak of especially,
but indeed all were good, and the order and

[Column 2]

good manners of the children did ample credit
to their President and her assistants. Their
labor must have been great and unsleeping.
	After the children were through with their
programme Sister Toone said she could only
give two or three minutes to each speaker as
the time was so advanced. She then called on
Bro. Dunbar, who said he was glad to be pres-
ent, that he had admired the order of the
children, and in the name of the parents he
felt to express his feelings of satisfaction to
Sister Toone for all that he had seen and
heard.
	Bro. Romney said he had attended all the
meetings, and he saw a great improvement in
the children from time to time, and great merit
was due Sister Toone; he wished the parents to
send their children all the time, and not only
at the anniversary; and he thanked Sister
Toone in his own name aud in behalf of the
parents.
	Bro. Savage gave a riddle: What were we
all doing at the same time?—(Getting older.)
Called on the children to pray for long life to
Sister Toone. This Association was a prepara-
tion for the upper room. Felt the Spirit of
God was present, and desired the children to
carry home the influence they felt here.
	Bro. Richards had attended every meeting.
"Children, remember all you have heard here
this afternoon." Proposed a vote of apprecia-
tion to Sister Toone, which was unanimously
responded to.
	Bro. Lewis asked the choicest blessings on
Sister Toone.
	Sister Horne had been highly edified this
afternoon; the children would do well to apply
the essays and recitations that had been given.
She was present when the society was first
formed, and she was impressed to name Sister
Toone as its president. Would have liked to
have seen the boys brought forward. Endorsed
the recitation of a little boy—"Give the boys
a chance." Wanted them to pray for Sister
Toone.
	Sister Taylor was delighted with all she had
heard and seen; everything had been of a re-
fined and elevated caste. "Pray for Sister
Toone."
	Sister B. W. Smith was glad to see so many
more children than formerly. "Children, you
have been well instructed, and bless and pray
for your teachers and your President.
	Sister Ferguson: "You good boys and girls,
I have been delighted with you all this after-
noon; I see you are so much improved. The 
last days are truly upon us, and much devolves
upon men and women. I hope you will all re-
member that essay read here on faith, and ap-
ply it to yourselves, each one; I hope you will
have it when you need it."
	Sister Clarke felt enough had been said, but
she was delighted with all she had heard and
seen.
	Meeting was then adjourned for one year.
Singing, "Hope of Israel." Bro. Geo. Romney
Jun. spoke a few words, and closed the meet-
ing by a benediction.	H. T. K.


﻿PRIMARY, EAST BOUNTIFUL 

EDITOR EXPONENT:		
	I thought I would write a few lines to our
much esteemed paper,so that the other Primary
Associations may have the opportunity of
knowing how we are getting along in East
Bountiful.
	We held our sixth annual meeting April
18th, 1885, in the Tabernacle.  There were
present one hundred and seventy-five children,
and quite a number of their parents, and of
course that was very encouraging to those who
preside.  We had a very good programme, con-
sisting  of  songs,  dialogues,  questions and
answers from the cards.  One dialogue,  by
seven little girls, the title  “When we are


women,” was very good indeed; and one by
eighteen boys and fifteen girls, entitled, "How
to build up a new Territory,” was also excel-
lent, and a good spirit prevailed.
	President of Primary, Sister Porter, and sis-
ter Randall were present from Centreville, also
Sister Howard and Counselors from the Hot 
Springs—Primary Assistants.  All spoke very
encouragingly to the little ones; also Sister 
Holt, President of the Young Ladies’ of East
Bountiful, talked to the children very kindly.
At the close of the meeting the children were
made glad with oranges and candy.  All went
away with smiling faces.
	At Christmas we had a good time.  We had
two trees with quite a lot of nice and useful
presents upon them.  We had recitations,songs
and solos; our programme was short, but good.
After the children had received their presents
from the tree Brother Thurgood’s store keeper
brought over to each child a sack of candy;
one hundred and sixty present, also Brother
Anson V. Call, from the co-op, brought the
children—each of the large boys very nice
whistles, the small boys a smaller kind of
whistle and some candy.  To each of the large
girls was given a very nice breastpin, to the
smaller ones a string of beads. These, were 
given on New Year’s day, and were much ap-
preciated by the children.
	We feel to say God bless the children of
Zion, for we see and know there are noble
spirits among the children of the Latter-day
Saints, and we trust our labors will not be in
vain and we feel assured they will not, for 
there will be a mighty host rise up among
them that will stand true to the cause of the
Most High.
	ANN DUSTIN, President,
	SARAH L. DAVIS, Secretay.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A lady in Boston has submitted to the mayor
the plan of a novel charity, toward starting
which she proposes to contribute $50,000. It
is to create a fund, the income of which shall
be used annually for the care of the teeth of
children in the Primary schools whose parents
are unable to pay dentists' bills.—Ex.
	Mrs. Robert E. Lee was the only child of
George Washington Parke Curtis, who was
the only son and heir of Martha Washington.
It was from George and Martha Washington
that Curtis obtained Arlington, which at the
opening of the war was one of the finest pieces
of country property in the South. It is de-
scribed as "the ideal Southern homestead."—
Ex.
	The Dowager Lady Airlie was returned at
the head of the poll, recently, as a member of
the Lintrathen School Board. This is, I be-
lieve, the first instance of a lady of rank
having aspired to such a position. It affords,
however, an example which a good many other
dowagers, who are not as a rule overburdened
with work, might follow with great advantage.
—Ex.

	The exhibition of Decorative Art work at
Young Bro's on Main St., which commenced
on May 12th, and has been continued since up
to the present, is something wonderful in the
way of ornamentation, and requiring less na-
tural ingenuity; it would seem,than embroidery
done by hand. Everything, large or small,
can be executed on the Domestic machine, on
satin, silk, plush, felt, canvas, etc, with
chenile, arrasene, crewels, embroidery silk,
tinsel, applique, mosaic and etching. Crowds
of people were attracted every day to see the
handsome and elaborate display of embroidered
goods, and to watch those who were engaged
in running the machines, doing all sorts of
fancy ornamental work of different varieties
and patterns with the people looking over in
wonder and amazement. Surely this is some-
thing under the sun.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Mount Carmel, Kane County, Utah, on the
morning of May 1st, 1885, Brittanna E. Mage Jolley,
supposed to be born in the year 1814, in Pitt County, N.
C.; married to Henry B. M. Jolley October 31st, 1833, in
Weakly County, Tennessee. Moved to Illinois in the
year 1842; was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in the year 1842; arrived in the
Valley of Salt Lake 1852. Was the mother of ten
children, seven sons and three daughters, and two sons
dead; grandmother to thirty-eight living and five dead
grandchildren; was great-grandmother to thirty-one
living children and three dead, making a grand total of
one hundred and nine children. Was a faithful member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
esteemed and loved by all her friends.
	R. M. ENGELSTEAD.
Mount Carmel, May 4th, 1885.

	DIED, at her residence, in Vermillion, Severe County,
Utah, on the 13th of March, 1885, of heart disease,Anna
Maria Berg Dastrup, aged sixty-five years. Sister
Dastrup was born on the 22nd of January, 1820, in
Welsbek, Clesvig; came to Syalland, Denmark in June,
1828; was married to H. L. Dastrup October 16th, 1841.
She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1853. Was baptized by Elder H. I. Lund.
Came to St. Louis on the 9th of March, 1856, and started
for Utah July 3rd,1859, and arrived In Salt Lake City in
Dec., the same year.
	Sister Dastrup was a good Latter-day Saint, and a
faithful worker in the Relief Society, having been secre-
tary for several years. She was living in the celestial
order of marriage, and died in full faith of a glorious
resurrection.
	She leaves a husband,one son and eight grandchildren
and many friends to mourn her loss.
		REBECCA NEBEKER, President,
		VIOLET IVIE, Secretary.
	DIED, at Smithfield, Cache County, Utah, March 26th,
1885, Maria F. Smith. She was born October 13th,
1822, in the State of Florida. Was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1849.
Emigrated to Utah the following year.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Saint, true to
every principle of her religion, prompt in the discharge
of every duty. She has gone to reap the reward of the
righteous, and though we now mourn her loss, we know
it is her gain, and we who are left live in the hopes of a
glorious meeting at the resurrection morn.
	COM.


A QUESTION.

	SNOWVILLE, Utah, May 4th, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Can any of your readers or contributors tell me how
to kill green bugs on plants? They first come on daisies
then went from them to pinks. They do not trouble
geraniums nor violets, though side by side. Tobacco
water seems to be of no avail; the plants die if not kept
down. Also is there any remedy for fleas? If some of
your contributors would answer the above queries they
would greatly oblige,

	E. BALLAM.


SPECIAL NOTICE.
	In order to accomodate a number of persons who
desire to join my Obstetric Class, but cannot commence
in May, I have concluded not to start my Class until
later; when due notice will be given.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885
a term consists of ten weeks.  Two lectures every day,
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term, $10.00.	Books, $13.00.
	Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z.C.M.I
			SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
			Dry Goods,Notions,Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS;
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more, complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
	AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
	MRS. B. P. MUSSER,

Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Sprint and Summer Goods
 AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS,
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to:
	Address, DAVID JAMES,Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

