
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JUNE, 1906						No. 1


CONTENTS.
Passing Thoughts......... Annie Wells Cannon	1
Woman’s Voice...................... B. S. Goodwin	2
Relief Society Reports—Box Elder Stake......	2
In Memoriam..................................................	3
Memorial Services........... Annie Maria Allen	3
General Relief Society Conference................	3
Mothers’ Work................................................	7
Relief Society Reports — Maricopa Stake —
	Tooele Stake............................................	8
Underground Water of the Valleys of Utah
	Lake and Jordan River, Utah...................	8
Editorial—Prosperity and Progress—Visits of
	Missionaries.............................................	4
	Daughters of the Revolution....................	5
Poetry—A Rondeau............................ E. B.W.	1
	The Awakening...........Grace Ingles Frost	3
	Homeless............. Maud Ellen Baggarley	3


A RONDEAU.
When May-time comes, and lilacs are in bloom,
And blue-eyed violets waft their sweet perfume,
And lilies nod along the limpid stream,
Then poets wander in an idle dream,
And weave bright fancies in kind Nature’s loom,
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes the apple blossoms sweet,
Pale pink and white are flut’ring at our feet;
The song-bird building high its pretty nest
In swaying tree-top coo's its mate to res[-];
Fond lovers too, think then their bliss complete,
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes young life is all aglow,
True lovers whisper secrets soft and low,
They hie away to s[-]me secluded nook
Their voices mingling with the murm’ring brook
And plight their faith. Ah, me. ’tis ever so!
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes I sit in moonlight’s glow,
And watch the flitting shadows come and go;
I see the mists of beauty fade away
From the far bills where silv’ry moonbeams stray
Among the pines that sing so soft and low
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes one mem’ry ever dear,
Float’s o’er my soul its music soft and clear,
Thrilling my pulses e’en to finger tips,
While tender words are trembling on my lips
And visions of the loved and lost are near
When May-time comes.
E. B. W.
May 16, 1906.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	Yes, we went to Calder’s Park—the
daughters of the Pioneers and their friends
—and it was a great day. Full of present
enjoyment and rich in reminiscences.
	A right loyal little band are the daugh-
ters, and they love to recall the great work
of their fathers and mothers in building
up this Western empire; they love to honor
those, who yet are with us, who made that
memorable journey across the plains and
who toiled in the early days as only pion-
eers can toil whether men or women, in
the breaking up of new soil, the early
planting and building, the making their
own soap, candles, rush lights, clothing,

[Column 2]
the living in log cabins with mud roofs,
the very fighting with the elements for a
mere existence, and yet who never com-
plained but with prayer and song praised
the great Giver and with cheerful hearts
still toiled bravely on; to honor those,
who are left and the memory of those
gone before, The daughters of the Pioneers
exist in an organized way and some times
have occasions rich in reminiscent ex-
pression. Such was the day at Calder’s.
The girls appeared in old fashioned cost-
umes, some of them, in dresses their
mothers wore, others copied from old
miniatures with old fashioned laces and
jewelry for decoration and they looked
perfect pictures of the long ago. It did
not seem long, though in fact ’t was more
than two hours we stood listening to the
dear old hymns of “Babylon O Babylon
we bid thee Farewell,” “Hard Times
Come Again no More” and “Come Come
ye Saints” sung by some of the sweetest
of Zion’s singers and the stories of “How
one Woman Crossed the Plains”, “Early
Industries” “Pioneer Education” “Early
Theatricals” as told by President Smith,
Governor Cutler, Bishop Whitney and
Miss Adams. ’Twas all so good, so true,
and brought to our minds so many me-
mories of the past. And what a setting
—a perfect day at Calder’s Park. You
know any amount of money does’nt
change Calder’s much. It still lies at the
foot of the Wasatch Hills. The same
cool, dangerous spring feeds the lakes
where we love to boat ride, and the same
old apple trees are there, which afforded
us shelter twenty years ago. Modern
amusements of course make some changes,
we dance the two step now in a pavilion,
where once we danced the schottische in a
bowery. The boys play bass ball on a
chalked diamond, where town ball across
a line was the old form. The girls play
basket ball and Tennis where Copenhagen
and croquet used to reign, and our hearts
go in our mouths and we close our eyes
and stop breathing, while the young folks
dash into the water down a shoot the
chute, while the old fashioned swing or
moonlight boat ride used to be sufficient-
ly exciting. But its still the same old place
where for over thirty years the schools
and Sunday Schools have held excursions
and the dancing and the picnic and the
boat rides and the meeting of friends
brings the past into the present and
though time has streaked our hair with
gray and our faces lined, our hearts seem
young when friend meets friend on such
a day.
	There were tears in many eyes when
President Smith related the brave journey
of his mother with her family of little chil-
dren, bereft as they were by the cruel
savagery of a mob, of the father and pro-
tector, but mingled with the tears was ad-
miration for such undaunted courage.
There was smiles and laughter as Bishop
Whitney so delightfully related his early
school experiences for many were in the
audience, who also recalled Bro. Peck and
Dr. Doremus and other pedagogues of the
“Village School.”

[Column 3]
	Much interest was felt in the early at-
tempts at home manufacture as told by
Governor Cutler and many smacked their
lips at the remembrance of Bro. Goddards
cider.
	With great expectation we greeted our
old favorite Asenath Adams, waiting for
what we knew she could give us a rare
treat of early theatricals, but great, also
was our disappointment for with brief
mention of our old historic theatre and
the men and women who played there,
who by the way some were present, Hi-
ram and Margaret Clawson, Phil Margetts
Nellie Colebrook, and many asked where
is John T. Caine and David McKenzie,
gave us a long talk on Patriotism and a
promise if “we do right” Utah may yet
be a great state.” Well all this is good
enough but quite superfluous to the daught-
ers of the Pionrees for it is our very loyalty
that has caused us to exist and our pa-
triotism is beyond a question. So we ask-
ed Miss Adams because we are loyal to
her as a Utah woman to give us personal
reminiscences of the early drama in Salt
Lake. What a field for a fine talk. The
dear old theatre, built long before the
railroad, on whose boards the greatest
men and women of Thespian Art have
trod. Could’nt she remember the wonder-
ful presentations there given of Shake-
speare’s plays, when John McCullough and
Edwin Adams and Paunceforte assisted by
our own stock company, she herself the
star educated in young Utah the taste for
the classic drama. How refreshing would
have been a description of the presen-
tation of Macbeth when the daughters of
President Young and Squire Wells and
other “society girls” togged themselves
up for witches and under the training of
Prof. Careless, sang the original Music of
that great play, when Brother Geo. Teas-
dale as Hecate descended from the clouds
in a mist of blue gauze and Phil Mar-
getts, Harry Bowring, and John C.
Graham stirred the boiling cauldron as
the three witches of Endor. ‘T would
doubtless be a pleasant reminder of old
times to recall Edwin Adams’ finished
portrayal of Hamlet, with Nellie Cole-
brook as Ophelia, or the notable Rip
Van Winkle of Joseph Jefferson, not for-
getting that later, in company with Mrs.
John Drew, we saw him in his great part
of Bob Acres to her Mrs. Malaprop, in
Sheridan’s fine old play “The Rivals.”
	Would it be out of place to recall East
Lynne and Uncle Tom’s Cabin, where
little Edith Clawson first gave promise of
histrionic art in the touching part of Eva,
and “The Octoroon,” where John T.
Caine’s Indian, David McKenzie’s Mc-
Closky and the Yankee of John C. Gra-
ham, were so well portrayed as never to
be forgotten.
	A little reminder of the old “Green
Room,” where actors and actresses meet
in a social way between the acts. How
many scenes of personal encounter its
walls could tell of, if only walls had tongues
as well as ears.
	In e[-]ery profession there are ups and
downs and the theatrical doubtless has


more of these, especially the “downs”
than any other. No one escapes it, and
it once happened when Miss Adams her-
self felt especially down, in Salt Lake, a
fine presentation of the two Orphans was
given for her benefit by some amateur
talent. It was then that Keetie Heywood
Orson Whitney, John Spencer, H. M.
Wells, Lottie Claridge and other young
people came to the front in her support,
and out of this presentation probably
grew that delightful company known as
the “Home Dramatic Club.” Well these
are just two or three out of the hundreds
of reminiscences we might haye heard of
early theatricals.
	Memory takes me back and I well re-
member as a little girl, sitting entranced
with Miss Adams’ sweet voice and grace-
ful acting. The old theatre is the same,
and even now it is the best playhouse in
the West, and we wish she had not for-
gotten.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE
	I have just been reading the May number
of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and enjoyed
it, it is full of good things; the piece
written by Louisa Gray on the “Life of
the deceased Jane M. Baxter”—interest-
ed me very much; we traveled together by
sea and land, we cooked our scones over
the same fire, and we slept in the same
tent, and part of the time pulled the same
hand cart; and when I read it, it brought
back incidents of that memorable journey
that I almost had forgotten. I remember
well the incident of “the candle” I have
heard my mother and Sister Baxter talk
it over with thankfulness that it lasted
while he lived, her dying husband.
	My mother sat with her and the silent
dead until the grey dawn of the Morning.
Well “blessed are the dead that die in
the Lord for they shall find rest.”
	We had a very enjoyable time at our
last Relief Society Conference in Beaver.
Sisters’ Caine and Dusenberry gave us
many good instructions, I enclose a piece
of poetry that I composed on the Fiftieth
Anniversary of our leaving Scotland.
	I wrote it thinking it might be interest-
ing to my children or grand children when
I have passed away and others may like
to read it.
					B. S. GOODWIN.
	Beaver, Utah.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake, convened in the Tabernacle
Brigham City, June 12th, 1906. On the
stand besides the Stake Relief Society
Officers were Counselor Annie T. Hyde
and Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the
General Board, and Elder W. C. Horsley
of Stake Presidency. President Susannah
P. Booth presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Booth made an address of welcome
in which she said it was our duty to go to
our meetings and receive spiritual food,
if we put our trust in the Lord, he will
help us, and bless us in our labors, spoke
on punctuality, hoped the spirit of the
Lord would be with us in our conference,

[Column 2]
and that we would have a time of rejoice-
ing together.
	Lydia E. Watkins, President of Beaver
Ward Ass’n. reported they had no poor,
but were able to do some good. Urania
C. Nelson, President of Thatcher Ass’n:
reported they had not been able to hold
meetings regular, on account of sickness,
their teachers visit regularly. Sister Julia
P. M. Farnsworth said this was the first time
she had visited Brigham City in the cap-
acity of a society worker, but knew from
reports we were a prosperous and energ-
etic people; said there were more ways
than one, to aid and assist one another,
thought there were not another set of
women any where who had the freedom
and privileges of the women of Utah,
made many other good remarks.
	The congregation sang, Glorious things
are sung of Zion,
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said she felt
blessed this morning in being one with
the sisters, said it was woman’s sphere on
earth, to raise a posterity, and if we love
the Lord and put our trust in Him he will
help us, felt we were entitled to the bless-
ings of the Lord to direct us and we have
to make ourselves as one with our chil-
dren, and teach them the principles of
the gospel, spoke on patience and prayer
in the home, alluded to the giving of Sun-
day eggs, and the amount which had been
made through saving them. Urged the
holding of Board and Officers Meetings,
spoke on the Mothers’ work, we want
every young mother’s name enrolled, gave
good advice in regard to getting an at-
tendance, and making our meetings a suc-
cess, we should have love and charity one
to another, dwelt up on marriage and our
children marrying outside our Church,
said we should teach our children to marry
in the temple, also talk to them to hold
all things sacred, felt we should encourage
our children in marriage, and to put all
the care and protection around them that
we could, and we should put our trust in
God, and get all the help we could from
Him in helping us guide our children.
	President Booth made a few closing
remarks. Meeting adjurned until 2 p.m.
Singing and Benediction.
	2 P.m. Meeting opened with usual
exercises. President Booth reported a
letter from Stone Ass’n. they were increas-
ing in numbers, and doing nicely in their
mothers work, she was pleased also to see
so many present this afternoon, felt the
Relief Society work was a grand work,
and she had a great desire to do all she
could to assist in the advancement of the
same, spoke on the resignation of Sister
Peters, who had been released on account
of poor health, said she had labored over
40 years with the sisters in different cap-
acaties, and had always had love and un-
ity in her labors.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters was as much
interested as ever in the Relief Society
work, but felt on account of her health it,
was better for her to give up her position,
she often wondered if it was for a purpose
she was so afflicted, but was willing to
stand it, if it would keep her in the faith,
said Sister Harding was all right in the
place she was in, asked the Lord to bless
us, that we may be faithful and press on
in the good work.
	Counselor Mary Harding felt she was
not worthy to fill this position, but knew
this was the work of the Lord, and was
willing to do all the good that she could,

[Column 3]
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Julia Bingham President of Garland
Ass’n. reported they had some sickness
and some poor. Sophie Larsen of East
Garland Ass’n. felt considering the short
time they had been organized, they were
doing very nicely.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madson hoped
she would be able to remember some little
points that were good that she heard to
day; spoke on surprise parties, felt we
ought not to encourage so many of them,
let us show one another that we love to
go about doing good, let us be faithful
and not confidence breakers, but do one
another all the good that we can.
	Sister Emeline Watkins rendered a solo,
“I love to hear my Savior’s voice.”
	Counselor A. T. Hyde knew the Relief
Society was always looking after the sick,
dead or dying, but felt we also needed
spiritual development, suggested our visit-
ing with the Young Ladies and Primaries
and giving them our encouragement,
spoke on the gathering of wheat, read a
piece from pamphlet, and the letter from
President Joseph F. Smith, spoke on the
mothers work, and urged the sisters to
take interest in it, also wished the sisters
to take interest in the Nurses Classes, as
they were anxious to have Nurses who
understand the uses of herbs and all other
things regarding health, spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, and made many other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Juilia P. M. Farnsworth, said you
must have a very good President and
Bishops to have such a good Relief Society,
gave the message sent by Sisters B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells, spoke on the
Hymn that we sang which had been com-
posed for the women of Zion, and on the
question of our marriage duties and of the
spirit which was getting in amongst the
people of not wanting to raise families,
spoke also of Nurses, urged the sending
of some of our sisters to these classes.
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl spoke
of the fidelity of Sister Booth and her
great interest in the work, felt to regret
Sister Peters having to give up her posi-
tion but realized it was all for the best,
and that Sister Harding would be as able
as Sister Peters, spoke on the Mothers
going out more with the Young Ladies
felt it was very important for them to be
interested in the amusements of their sons
and daughters, he was proud of the Relief
Society of this stake and pleased with the
work of the Mothers.
	President Booth felt to thank all for
their presence here to day and also to
thank the visiting sisters for their good
instruction, Conference then adjourned
sine die after Singing and Benediction.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
					Asst. Secretary.


Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, of Los
Angeles, is publishiag a book, entitled,
“The Mother of Clubs.” It is described
as a remarkable record of achievement in
that direction. Her friend Mrs. Ruddy.
says: “In her eighty-seventh year, with
mind still active, eager and alert, Ma-
dame Severance is a center of light for
those who are in sympathy with the
broadest humanitarian impulses, who love
the loftiest literature, and who believe in
the highest life.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE AWAKENING.
	GRACE INGLES FROST.
All nature hath awakened
	From the long winter’s sleep
The leaden clouds have vanished,
	The skies no longer weep;
The long, gray days are over,
	And trees that then were bare,
Are laden now with blossoms
	Whose fragrance fills the air.
Gay silver-throa'ed birdlings
	Are with us once again,
They sing from morn ’til evening
	Their thankful, joyous strain.
The bullfrogs in the marsh s
	Croak, croak their songs by night,
Where ignis fatuus dances
	Fantastically and bright;
And stars in azure setting
	Are twinkling up above.
While Luna’s beams are bathing
	The land with light of love.
The earth is full of beauty—
Behold it and rejoice;
From man and mankind only
	Is heard the sorrowing vo ce.


HOMELESS
	MAUD ELLEN BAGGARLEY.
Homeless and lonely, through earth’s darkness
	groping,
The cares of existence e’er hiding the way;
Some moments forgetting the love of our Father,
And oftentimes even too tired to pray.
The blessings of home to its is a phantom,
Ambition’s Laurel is to be our life’s prize:
And though many who seek will only find sorrow,
We shall still hope on, for hope never dies.
We may walk, with sad hearts, through bright
	faces,
Through highways of “Vanity Fair,”
And mirth that is hollow will answer heart’s
	pleading,
Soul rest, you will never find there!
The world will laugh at your suffering,
Or frown when you do your best;
For behind its gay mask the world’s eyes are
	cruel,
And ’tis most in earnest when it seems most in
	jest.
For home, some can never be thankful
Till they tire of the world s useless din;
Ah, home is not a mere place of shelter,
Nor the Laurel the best crown to win!
Oh, you who have homes filled with bright, pleas-
	ant faces.
For the sake of life’s happiness ne’er leave them
	to roam.
For Fortune’s pathway’s thorniest places
Look bright from the clear, sunny windows of
	home.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ALMIRA J. MERRILL.
	Mrs. Almira J. Merrill, wife of the late Apostle
M. W. Merrill, died at Richmond, Cache County,
Utah, Sunday, April 8, 1906, a[-]ter an illness ex-
tending over some years. Sister Merrill was the
daughter of Frederick and Elizabeth Pond Bain-
bridge, and was born in Salt Lake City, August 29,
1849. The summer prec[-]ding her birth her father
went to California in search of gold and never re-
turned Later her mother marr[-]e[-] Beason Lewis
In 1860 they moved to Cache Valley, locating in
Richmond, where they have since resided. While
in her girlhood Almira became the wife of Marrin-
er Wood Merrill. As she was only in her 57 h
year it is thought that the death of her husband,
which occurred February 6, 1906, hastened her
death. She passed through all the trying scenes
incident to pioneer life in Cache Valley She was
one of the pioneer school teachers of the county
and with her mother taught the first school in
Richmond.
	She was always an active Church worker in the
various ward organizations. She was chosen
president of the Richmond Relief Society June 15,
1879, and ably presided over it for twenty-two

[Column 2]
years, having to resign on account of failing
health For seventeen years she was afflicted
with gall stones, and many times when an attack
came on she was confined to her bed for weeks.
She endured her pain and suffering without com-
plaint, and even felt hopeful a[-]d cheerful. About
five months ago other complications set in, and all
that loving hands and skillful nursing could do
was of no avail, her noble spirit taking its flight
to j[-]in her loved ones on the other side.
	She was the mother of twelve children, eight
sons and four daughters Her children are: Chas.
E and Mrs. Libbie A. Hendricks, of Richmond;
Dr. Heber K, of Logan; Prof. Alber[-] M. of Ash-
ley, Idaho, principal of Cassia Stake A[-]ademy
Prof Lewis A, of Salt Lake, editor of the “Des-
eret Farmer; 'Lorin A., of Logan, recorder in the
Logan Temp[-]e Prof. Fred. W., principal of the
Nephi High School; Mrs. Jos. P Sharp, who de-
parted th s life about sixteen months before her
mother; Dr. Preston R., of Salt Lake; Leon E,
now on a mission to the Northern States, Alvaret-
ta and Orella, unmarried daughters, the youngest
seventeen years of age; also she had 37 grand-
children.
	Sister Merrill was of a highly intellectual na-
ture a[-]d took great interest in educational mat-
ters. She was cultured and refined, a great read-
er, and was alwa[-]s posted on all the current events
of the day,
	She possessed a wonderful influen[-]e for good
over her children, and always taught them the
principles of the Gospel of which she was a firm
believer. Her son Leon, who recently went on a
mission, did so at her special request as her illness
bade fair to be a lingering one, and there was a
hope for her [-]ecovery. She loved her children
tenderly and they in return were very devoted to
her. She was a faithf l and loving wife, a friend
to [-]he poor and needy. Her funeral was held
Wednesday, April 11, and was very largely at-
tended, friends coming from all over Utah and
Idaho to pay their last respects to their loved
friend and sister It was beautiful to hear the sons
of the other wives of Apostle Merrill testify to her
goodness of heart, her loving kindness, and the
wise counsel of “Aunt Myra,” as she was lovingly
called by the family. They all bore testimony
that she was one of the noblest women of the
earth.
	The casket was literal[-]y buried in flowers, many
designs coming from a long distance. She has
gone to join her noble husband, her daughter Em-
ma, her mother, and a host of others in that beau-
tiful home of rest and peace.
MAGGiE T MERRILL,
LrZZIE DOTY.
RESOLUTIONS.
	At the first Relief Society meeting held after
her death the following resolutions were read and
adopted:
	Resolutions of respect in memory of Sister Al-
mira J. Merrill, who departed this life April 8,
1906.
	We, the officers and members of the Richmond
Relief Society, feel in the loss o[-] our dear friend
and ex-president, that a good and faithful member
has been called to a happier home, where she will
be wel[-]omed as we know she was always wel-
comed in our circles here.
	For we can truly say she was a friend to the
poor and needy, and had a cheerful word to give
them by way of encouragement as well as assist-
ance.
	Much could be said in praise of her good works
and her wise counsel. We feel that her mis ion
on earth was fulfilled and she was wanted on the
other side; that she was prepared to j[-]in her loved
ones who had gone to that glorious mansion pre-
pared for the just.
	Whereas, we, the members of the Relief Society
sympathize with the bereaved family.—May her
sons and daughters be comforted in the assurance
that their mother [-]s not dead, but gone to con-
tinue her labors in a far better world. May we
cherish her memory and strive to emulate her no-
ble example.
	Be it resolved that we read a sketch of her life
and these resolutions in Relief Soc[-]ety meeting;
that a copy be entered on Relief Society record,
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and a copy be sent to the bereaved family.

	The following was written in the “Oakley
Eagle.” edited by Albert M. Merrill, one of Aunt
Myra’s sons:
OUR MOTHER.
	We were called to mourn, last week, the lo[-]s of
our dear mother, in our estimation the dearest,
swee[-]est, best woman that ever graced the earth.
For fifty-six years and more she fought the stren-

[Column 3]
uous battle of life, coming out victorious in every
contest, but has now succumbed te the grim reap-
er, and has gone to the land where she shall be
forever free from sorrow, pain and ache which
racked her body here.
	We accept the opinion of all who knew her, that
she was indeed one of earth’s noble women. She
was the embodiment of goodness itself, and will
forever remain our ideal of true and beautiful
womanhood. When very young she entered that
order of marriage which is so despised by the
world, but to which she was so sincerely, devoted-
ly converted, and which did for her what nothing
else could do: crushed every selfish, sensuous,
worldly tendency, and which developed to highest
excellence every virtue that belongs to wife and
[-]otherhood.
	She bore and reared practically twelve robust
children, the youngest at her demise being seven-
teen years of age. She loved her children ten-
derly, and her love has been to some extent re-
quited, for she has ever enjo[-]ed the supreme con-
fidence and almost reverential devotion of her
sons and daughters. She cared little for the
things of this earth, save as thev contributed to
things eternal. She was highly intellectual, and
alwas took a lively interest in things that tend to
soul development. She was a faithful and loving
wife, unselfishly devoted to her husband’s interest
and welfare. For her husband, her children, her
friends and acquaintances, indeed, for all of God’s
children she lived, and in the Lord she [-]as died.
To Him we reluctantly, sorrowfully commend her
spirit, and may He grant that she shall still have
her loving, protecting guardianship over us


MEMORIAL SERVICE.

	Meetings were held in honor of Sister
Elizabeth Stevenson, a member of the
General Board of Relief Society, by the
Relief Society branches of Emery
Stake, May 7, 1906. The memorial meet-
ing held at Castle Dale, May 7, 1906.
Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Prayer by Carrie O. Larsen.
Singing, “Sister, thou wast mild and
lovely.” Reading items of the life, death
and funeral of Sister Elizabeth Steven-
son, by Stake Secretary Annie Maria Al-
len. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Stake President Mary A. Sorensen
spoke feelingly of the noble character of
our dear sister, of her strong faith and
fidelity to the Gospel, of her great desire
to talk to the sisters, and referred to in-
structions given to the sisters of this
stake by this dear sister on former visits,
as being instructions from a woman of
God, the same would never be forgotten.
	Solo, “Shall we gather at the river,”by
Lucy Seely.
	Sister Clarissa Jane Seely, of Mount
Pleasant, said she had been acquainted
with Sister Stevenson since the year 1858,
and knew her to be a faithful woman who
always tried to do right, to live uprightly
before the Lord; hoped that when she
passed from this stage of action she
might die in the harness as Sister Steven-
son had done,
	Prest. Mary J. Seely thanked the sisters
for their hearty response and for the
beautiful po ted plants and cut flowers
which they had furnished on this acca-
sion for decoration.
	Singing, “Thou dost not weep to weep
alone.” Benediction by Annie J. King.
		ANNIE MARIA ALLEN,
					Stake R. S. Sec.


Mrs. Frances C. Monken, of East St.
Louis, III., who is ninety-three years old,
is well and strong. She reads and writes
without glasses and plays on the piano.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.		-		JUNE 1906


[Column 1]
	PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS.
	Whatever may be said in regard to the
times in which we are now living or com-
plaints made, the new century and the
larger half of the nineteenth century,
certainly all must acknowledge these days
as a period of prosperity almost, if not
quite unequaled in the history of nations.
	To be sure there are great disasters and
calamities, and accidents innumerable,
causing much sorrow and anxiety, yet
aside from all that, and notwithstanding
the pessimistic views of a few would-be
wiseacres, there was never anything, we
can read, or hear of like the times of pro-
gress and prosperity of the actual pres-
ent.
	Turning our attention backward to the
early part of the nineteenth century, it
sets one’s head whirling almost, to con-
template the enormous changes in every
phase of living since that time. Were
the young folks of today to have the his-
tory of the past open to them, say even
fifty or sixty years ago, it would be diffi-
cult for them to imagine how their fore-
fathers and mothers lived, even those in
comparatively comfortable circumstances.
The hardest working classes at the pres-
ent time, with notably few exceptions,
are really better provided with the com-
forts and conveniences of housekeeping
and out-door working machinery, and in
many other respects, than those of what
would then be termed, “people in easy
circumstances.”
	It is scarcely possible to estimate in any
sense, how superior in all ways now are
the advantages of the homes and sur-
roundings in the domestic life of Ameri-
cans, and in fact one might say of all
English-speaking families, in eyery tem-
poral particular.
	It is true also that even those who have
seen what is called “hard times,” do not
fully appreciate the vast difference be-
tween then and now, and in many, per-
haps the greater number of instances,
fail to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in causing these things to come to pass,
that have wrought such miracles, as it
were in the new civilization. There are
many who go on murmuring, though
they are surrounded with comforts, some-
times even luxuries,. It seems strange
that people can be so dissatisfied with
comparatively prosperous conditions, and
are continually reaching out and aspiring
after more and more.
	In worldly matters the majority of peo-

[Column 2]
ple have what would formerly, and not
so very long ago either, been considered
wealth, or at any rate what would make
for comfortable living. The old story of
the man who wanted riches, and declared
to his wife that he was determined to be
rich, is a good comparison; she didn’t want
riches, only to be comfortable, the man
got rich, but his wife was never comfort-
able. No matter how grasping people
may be they can’t get the moon; but
they have in this day got the fulness of
the earth, so to speak.
	Man with his great endowments, of
strength and activity of mind and body,
with ingenuity, skill and achievements,
has by the blessing of the Lord, brought
such prosperity, and such remarkable pro-
gress has been attained along so many
lines of improvement by land and by sea,
that one is filled with admiration at what
has already come to pass, and wonders
what giant schemes are to be launched
forth to astonish the inhabitants of this
little globe, and for the betterment of the
conditions of life and advancement of the
interests of the world of nations and peo-
ples.
	Amazement and awe, are the only words
one can use, for it is impossible to de-
scribe in fitting language what has been
accomplished in the rapid strides made
in all the material works of mankind dur-
ing the last half century, or a little more.
	The great products of the world are
brought to one’s very doors; the gigantic
achievements in the naval, commercial,
agricultural and architectural movements
on a scientific basis are of mammoth
proportions, and indeed are too appalling
to sum up in one’s own mind.
	Sometimes in speaking of these things
one is met by the exclamation, “What
about the pyramids?” Yes, the pyramids
are doubtless one of the greatest achieve-
ments of mankind, but they took a whole
nation of people to build them, and cen-
turies of time; whereas the new inven-
tions and vast modern enterprises of
our own time have only covered a century
or little more, that is, all the greater ones.
It has not been the work of a combined
nation, but the great brain and handwork
of a few stalwarts to conceive, and a host
of skilled artisans to carry out and exe-
cute the plans, rudely thought out at
first perhaps, and developed as they ma-
tured in the mind, and in form after-
wards.
	Along intellectual, educational, artistic,
and musical advancement the pace has
been kept up in proportion to the ma-
terial and industrial growth, and again
one may say, we have no book of recent
times like the Bible, nor have we a poet
like Shakespeare, or even Milton, nor a
Raphael, or Rembrandt, Titian, or Michael
Angelo. But there are always conondrums
to be solved, and the people who ask these
puzzling questions are the ones who
should answer them for the benefit of
others.
	The human race is not going backward
but forward at a tremendous rate, and
the one thing lacking in the present age,
more than aught else is spiritual progress
to equal the mental and material. 
	There are however, some hopeful signs
of tendencies and aspirations towards
higher ideals, and permanent footholds
for greater faith in God and the spread of
everlasting truth; the words of the Savior

[Column 3]
who taught great fundamental truths in
simplicity, as He walked and talked with
His disciples in and around Galilee, are
being promulgated, and if even in a small
degree the tiny seed is scattered, it will
in due time yield precious fruit.
	The Lord has spoken from the heavens
in this day of greater progress and en-
lightenment, even as He did in times of
old to His prophets; and because of this
greater dispensation, the fulness of times,
these great manifestations of genius and
of resource have come to pass, in fulfill-
ment of the words of men who spoke by
the gift and power of the Holy Ghost
through inspiration from on high. 
	The movement of many in the interest
of peace and arbitration, is one of the
best indications of the great changes to-
wards universal peace, and assuredly
there are silent forces working for the
betterment of the world. The Lord has
set His hand to accomplish the greatest
miracle and wonder of the latter-days.
Therefore those who have understanding
and whose minds are open to receive and
to discern the truth that is being pro-
claimed, and will eventually be carried
to all nations, may expect to see greater
things than in any other age of the world,
and although men marvel at what is now
taking place in the material world, if
they search the Scriptures they will find
that much more must come to pass, and
that a greater awakening to the truth as
taught by the Savior of the world is near
at hand, and it behooves those who have
knowledge of the fulfillment of prophecy
to walk in the light, and to keep their
lamps trimmed and burning; and in all
humility teach the simple lessons of faith,
repentance and baptism for remission of
sins, and by examples of purity, devotion
and integrity, emphasize their teachings,
consecrating time and talents to the up-
building of Zion.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited this year by misionaries
sent from the General Board, appointed
by President Bathsheba W. Smith are:—
Utah, April 20, at Provo, Utah, Sisters
Annie Wells Cannon and Rebecca E.
Little, Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbury
was also one of the speakers at the con-
ference.
	Emery, April 24, at Emery, Utah, Sis-
ters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Hattie
B. Harker. Sister Stevenson was too ill
to attend the conference but Sister Hark-
er filled the appointment.
	Beaver, May 11, at Beaver, Utah,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and
Sister Margaret A. Caine.
	Benson, May 12, at Lewiston, Utah,
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L.
Smith and Priscilla Smith, the last named
joined them at Logan, where she was
attending college.
	Millard, May 18, at Deseret, Utah,
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Cache, May 18, at Logan, Utah, Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde and Sister Susan
Grant.
	Taylor, May 18, at Stirling, Canada,
Sisters Annie Wells Cannon and Miriam
Young Hardy.
	Hyrum, May 19, at Hyrum, Utah,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Sister
Susan Grant.


Alberta, May 25, at Cardston, Canada,
Sisters Annie Wells Cannon and Miriam
Young Hardy.
	North Sanpete, May 26, at Fairview,
Utah, Sisters Rebecca E. Little and Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox.
	South Sanpete, May 28, at Manti, Utah
Rebecca E. Little and Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox.
	Jordan, May 28, East Jordan, Utah,
Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Hattie
B. Harker.
	Bannock, May 31, Soda Springs, Idaho
Sisters Carrie S. Thomas and Hattie B,
Harker.
	Liberty, June 1, 2nd Ward, Salt Lake
City, Sisters Emily S. Richards and Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp.
	Uintah, June 1, at Maeser, Utah, Sis-
ters Clarissa S. Williams and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Woodruff, June 6, at Randolph, Utah,
Sisters Susan Grant, and Sarah Jenne
Cannon.
	Box Elder, June 12, at Brigham City,
Utah, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and
Sister Julja P. M, Farnsworth. 
	Onieda, June 13, at Preston, Idaho,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth.
	Wasatch, June 15, Heber City, Utah,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Zina Young Card.
	Summit, June 17, at Coalville, Utah,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Alice Mer-
ill Horne.
	Cassia, June 22, at Oakley, Idaho, Sis-
ters Susan Grant and Priscilla Smith.
	Sevier, June 22, at Richfield, Utah,
Sisters Clarissa Smith Williams and
Phoebe Young Beatie.
	Bear Lake, June 24, Paris, Idaho, Sis-
ters Margaret A. Caine and Hattie B.
Harker.
	Star Valley, June 27, Afton, Wyoming,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine, and Hattie B.
Harker.
	Malad, June 29, Malad, Idaho, Sisters
Ellis R. Shipp and Rebecca E. Little.
	Pocatello, June 30, at Rockland, Idaho,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Hattie B.
Harker.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution celebrated in a patriotic
manner the anniversary of the Battle of
Lexington, April 19, at the headquarters in
the Templeton Building in this city, with
sentiments and speeches. The decora-
tions were in the Society colors, also
flowers and vases, stars and stripes being
conspicuously displayed. The Regent,
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon, presided with
dignity and grace. There were a few
invited guests present who took part in
the proceedings.
	The 16th of May the members of the
Society were the guests of the Regent and
the Corresponding Secretary, and were
entertained at the residence of Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey Corresponding Sec-
retary. The elegant new home was dec-
orated in the Society colors and beauti-
fully draped, and a display of flags large
and small and vases of wild flowers, buff
and blue were scattered about the rooms
giving it quite an artistic, floral appear-
ance. The Regent gave the report of
her year’s work which was very interest-
ingly written and perfectly given and


elicited considerable praise. Although
the day was very unfavorable and kept a
good share of the members away, yet it
was an enjoyable afternoon and when
the guests assembled in the dining room,
the dainty manner in which the viands
were decorated in colors was indeed a
happy surprise, and evinced the most
delicate ingenuity on the part of the
hostesses. The daintiness, the color
scheme, the ribbons and appurtenances,
did not detract from the flavor or deli-
ciousness of the various dishes prepared
by these graduates of the Boston Cook-
ing School, and all enjoyed the luncheon
and were bountifully served. It was a
very happy day and will long be remem-
bered by those who attended. Much
regret was expressed for the absent mem-
bers.
	The annual meeting and election of
officers was held on June 12, 1906, in the
Society Room, the Regent, Mrs. M.A H.
Cannon, presiding. Minutes of the an-
nual meeting in June, 1905, were read
and approved, and brief reports were
given by all the officers present, and the
Treasurer’s report, which was written,
and very complete, was read by the Sec-
retary in the absence of the Treasurer.
The election of officers followed and re-
sulted in the following officers for the
ensuing year. Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R.
Webber, First Vice Regent, Mr Alice
M. Horne, Second Vice Regent, Mrs.
Diana F. Rich; Recording Secretary Mrs.
Isabel M. W. Sears, Assistant Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Emily Y. Clawson, Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Clarice Y.
Spencer, Treasurer, Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beatie, Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall, Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah F.
Smith. This completed the business of
the day,and the next annual meeting will
be held in June, 1907. The regular
monthly meetings will commence again,
September 16, allowing three months
summer vacation.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
ble Hall, Thursday, April 5, 1906, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Prof. Charles Kent
rendered as a solo the beautiful hymn,
“I know that my Redeemer lives,” Mrs.
Kent accompanying him upon the organ.
The effect of the singing was very uplift-
ing. Prayer was offered by Sister Susan
Grant. Congregation sang, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation,” etc.
Sister Annie Wells Cannon, secretary
pro tem, called the roll of General Offic-
ers and Presidents of Stakes. There was
an excellent representation from the sev-
eral stakes and a very large congregation
for a morning session.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith wel-
comed the congregation in a few words of
encouragement and greeting, and signified
her wish that the Presidents of Stakes
report, as there were many present, and
called upon those from a distance. Snow-
flake was reported by Sister Jeannette
M. Smith, treasurer. The settlements in
that stake are scattered, considerable dis-
tance to travel, the presidency visit all
the wards regularly, the average attend-
ance at meetings is very good. There

[Column 2]
are many lovely little homes in Snow-
flake; the sisters have no particular way
to get means to help those who travel
around, but a little troop of young folks
gave some home dramatic performances
and gave the Relief Society sisters fifty
dollars; the society own a carriage, but
have to hire horses when they travel, rec-
ently they raised means and bought a
cow and gave to a poor family that they
had to provide for. They have one visit
a year from the General Board, whichi s
much appreciated. The speaker felti t
was a great privilege to be here, though
she had to come a long distance to attend
the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey reported
Bear Lake Stake, she had presided there
now many years, and felt glad to be able
to come to the conference, and report the
sisters were improving in every way;
spoke of the temporal conditions, and of
her enjoyment in visiting among the sis-
ters and holding district conferences, she
was proud to represent the stake; thought
the Relief Society the grandest organiza-
tion in the world, worth all the efforts we
could possibly make for its onward pro-
gress.
	Alberta Stake was reported by Sister
Rhoda Hinman as heing in a very pros-
perous condition, quite an increase in
members, and it covered a great deal of
ground, 200 miles a[-]ound, they visited
once a year, and the nearer branches
twice a year; she felt the sisters were do-
ing well.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, a mem-
ber of the General Board, was delighted
to see such a fine attendance at a morn-
ing session; spoke of our living in a great
and important age when everything
seems advancing rapidly, education, art
and the sciences, and in the midst of it
all there are many more cares and anx-
ieties in regard to our children; there is
greater responsibilities for the mothers
because with the growth of knowledge
and intelligence, the mothers must keep
abreast of the times to be able to discuss
various subjects and enter into all the
topics of the day and the hour. Truth is
ever onward; but above all let us be true
to ourselves then we can help others;
Sister Farnsworth alluded to the sisters
who had done so much for the great work
in which we are engaged, she appreciated
what they had accomplished for those
younger women who are now coming into
the ranks, her remarks, though brief,
were very excellent.
	Counselor Rose Hammond spoke for
Tooele Stake. everything was in good
working order, they had a good amount
of wheat, three very comfortable Relief
Society meeting houses; they had recently
undertaken the mothers work, had not
visited much during the winter, but in-
tended to now the spring had come.
	Counselor Ellen Thueson of Sevier
Stake, was very happy to be in our midst.
she felt paid for coming, just to hear the
opening hymn, it was so beautiful; in 
their stake they visited all around once a
year; she told us of the financial condi-
tion, and how much wheat they had gath-
ered last fall, felt they had made quite a
success of the mothers’ work, thought the
sisters were doing the very best they
could in all directions.
	President B. W. Smith addressed the
sisters for a few minutes, referring to her
desire to know of the mothers’ work;


[Column 1]
said she was glad it had been mentioned,
she was anxious it should be carried
on right, under the direction of the presi-
dent of the society and not make it a
separate affair.
	President Bathsheba B. Grundy of
Wayne Stake appreciated the privilege
of being present, she had a hard trip to
reach here, but felt repaid already with
what she had heard; felt in Wayne Stake
there was a good band of noble sisters
working in unison; they had mothers’
work in testimony meetings, we have
four Relief Society halls and five granar-
ies, we are doing our best to store grain,
hoped to be able to do her duty in the
position to which she had been called.
	Sister Hannah H. Romney, from Dub-
lan, Mexico, reported conditions in that
country, felt the people were prosper-
ous and progressing, the mothers’ work
was getting along very nicely in the Re-
lief Society, she thought the elder sisters
should encourage the young women to
come to these meetings; their teachers
down there never fail to visit all around
once a month, and carry a very good
spirit into the homes.
	Woodruff Stake was reported by Pearl
M. Brough, secretary, she felt proud to
represent the stake, scattered over six
hundred miles, and no railroad, it was
hard to visit, but always enjoyable; she
told of the financial condition and said
they had expended a great deal to help
the sufferers in mine explosions and other
accidents. Mothers’ work was doing
well in that stake, her report was quite
interesting.
	President Eliza J. Dixon of Nebo Stake
spoke of conditions in their locality being
different to many others, as a part of the
stake was in mining districts, and not
agriculture like those reported, consequent-
ly raised no grain, had some cash to buy
wheat with, and in the past some wheat
had been disposed of to build good gran-
naries; “there are nine granaries in our
stake and four Relief Society halls, we
visit three times a year, in every ward
we hold quarterly conferences in differ-
ent parts of the stake; have very good
officer’s meetings, once a month; our
Society meetings are held twice a month,
we are doing all we can for advancement,
studying theology and also have mothers’
work in the testimony meetings; we are
getting more new members in some of
the wards the young sisters are taking
an active part.”
	Secretary pro tem, Sister A. W. Can-
non, read a letter from the First Presi-
dency about the storing of grain by the
sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke a
few minutes, she felt more than pleased
to see the house so well filled, it showed
that the Relief Society was growing, she
had been a member of the Society since
1843, it was not always so large as it is
now, she believed all the sisters of the
Relief Society were doing a good work,
we all feel at times that we cannot get
around, but she thought we ought to do
all we could for those who are cast down,
we feel happy when we do these works of
charity, this was the Savior’s teaching,
and we will be blest in doing this good
work, there is a blessing that follows, “I
have many times gone into homes where
things were not pleasant, but when I left
I felt there was a good spirit there, it was
the Spirit of the Lord that came with

[Column 2]
the humble effort made to do good to
those in need of encouragement. I can-
not go among the people as much as I
desire to, because there is not time
enough, but I am glad to do what I can,
and thankful to be here today, and I
hope we will all be able to go home
safely, let us do all we can, it cannot be
too much, there is so much to be done,
let us above all love one another, and
love our neighbors, and we will be blest
if we strive to do these things.”
	Summit Stake reported by the Presi-
dent, Celestia Y. Pack, who was glad to
be in this large assembly of Saints, her
stake was quite a large one, some of the
branches were in mining camps, they all
held meetings uniform; sewing and testi-
mony, also Stake board and officers’
meetings once a month, we hold these in
different parts of the Stake, in connection
with the Priesthood meetings; we have
six granaries in our Stake, and a large
amount of real estate, we visit all around
once a year, our board visits once a
month, our missionaries visit from one
ward to another once a month, one con-
ference during the year where we have
visitors from the General Board. We
have enjoyed the mothers work, have
had lectures that might be read any-
where, we have brought some young sis-
ters in through the mothers’ work.
	President B. W. Smith adjourned the
Conference until 2 p. m. and announced
an evening session at 7:30, congregation
standing sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing,” and the benediction was given
by President Emma S. Woodruff.

	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President B. W. Smith presiding. Prof.
Thomas and members of the Temple
choir furnished the music, congregation
joined them in singing “O, say what is
truth, etc. Prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Penrose. The Temple quartette rendered
very beautifully, “Pray, sweet to my
soul.” President B. W. Smith was grati-
fied to see such a grand audience, she
had always been taught that the Relief
Society was the grandest auxiliary organ-
ization in the Church, and believed it,
thought we were doing pretty well as a
society, and expressed her belief in union
and love among the sisters; if there is any
feeling, ask forgiveness, and if there is a
proper spirit manifest it will do good. We
must try to live our religion and do all
the good we can, both for the living, the
dying and the dead. I don’t believe in
long speeches, and there are many here
to speak, and some have come from very
long distances and there is not much
time; the reports are to be limited to a
few minutes, I pray the Lord to bless all
this congregation and I bless you for
coming and may we have a good time
this afternoon, and the Spirit of the Lord
be with us.
	President Andrew Kimball from St.
Joseph Stake, reported the Relief Soci-
ety of that Stake in the absence of
President Elizabeth Layton, he spoke
very highly of Sister Layton and her
Counselors, as being united and diligent
in their work for the good of the sisters,
they have the opportunity of holding a
Conference every Priesthood day. They
have two Conferences, in June and De-
cember, and they do appreciate the visits
of the sisters from here very much. In
the wards the organizations are well

[Column 3]
posted and are the greatest helps to the
Bishops; they are not able to store wheat
in that warm climate, the weevils get into
it right away; the sisters have been great
benefactors to the community by loaning
the grain to the farmers, and thousands
of bushels of grain have been raised by
means of their kindness in lending the
grain for seed. Some time ago, during
the Spanish war, some of the boys were
not well provided for, and were getting
scurvy through lack of proper food. I
was written to, to know if the Relief Soci-
ety could help them, and our Relief Soci-
ety in Arizona fitted up a great many
boxes of bedding and good food and also
put in some money and we forwarded it
to the proper authorities to be distributed
to them, and much suffering was saved
through their charitable efforts at that
time. President Kimball said much in
praise of the Society in that locality and his
words were admirably suited to the occa-
sion.
	President Mary E. Schofield spoke of
Union Stake, where she presides, with
considerable pride and good feeling, felt
as it was a young Stake, the activity of
the sisters was deserving of recognition.
She and her associates visit in the valley
twice a year, and those branches that are
farther away, once a year. We have
some wheat and some money to buy
more, but have no granary as yet; we are
endeavoring to do the best we can in
taking care of it. We are doing well in
mothers’ work, using the outline formu-
lated by Union Stake. The Stake is
building a large tabernacle and some of
the wards are helping in this, we have but
few poor, but have assisted a number who
are helped by the Stake Presidency.
	President Isabelle E. Robinson of Mil-
lard Stake was pleased to mingle her
voice with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety, this grand organization, she had ad-
vocated a good fellowship meeting, felt
that would be a good place to drop every
enemity and get into harmony with one
another. Sister Robinson spoke of the
temporal condition of the Society, but
mentioned also the mothers’ work and
the Book of Mormon study; they have
five halls for meeting purposes, and five
granaries.
	Cassia Stake reported by Counselor
Alice Sessions; thought all the branches
were doing fairly well, of the ten wards
nearly all had granaries, a good attend-
ance of members at the Conferences.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was introduced
to speak upon Utah goods, said she had
taken hold of this movement to get home
manufactured goods upon the market,
stated that our market was flooded with
imported goods. After speaking earnest-
ly for two or three minutes on the subject
Sister Alder announced a meeting to be
held in Barratt Hall at the close of the
afternoon meeting and invited all present
to attend and hear this matter fully dis-
cussed upon its merits.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Clara B. Colby recently completed
a trip in behalf of the suffrage amend-
ment that covered twenty-four days in
eastern Oregon. She addressed twenty-
two meetings, rode eight hundred miles
by rail and two hundred by stage, visited
mining towns, distributed literature and
made friends and converts wherever she
went.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	  MOTHERS’ WORK
	SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
			    1
			Prayer.
“Prayer is the simplest form of speech
	That infant lips can try;
Prayer the sublimest strains that reach
	The majesty on high.”
	(a) Teach children to pray as soon as
they are old enough to talk. Mat. 7: 7—
8.; Doc. & Cov. sec. 103: 36.
				2.
			Obedience.
	(a) Necessity of obedience.
	(b) Blessings that attend obedient peo-
ple. I Nephi 3: 6, 7; 4: 24.
	(c) Sorrows that attend the disobedient.
I Samuel 15: 22; Improvement Era vol. 5,
page 410.
	(d) Willing obedience the most accept-
able to our Heavenly Father. 
				3
			Character.
	“Dare to have a character of thine
own, and let it be an honor to thy name.”
	(a) Choose good companions and read
good books.
	(b) Guard our thoughts as well as
words and actions.
	(c) Have pure desires as well as noble
aims.
	(d) “There is no excellence without
labor.”
	(e) “The basis of intellectual knowledge
is to know, the basis of moral cul-
ture is the desire to do right.”
	“How long we live, not years but ac-
tions tell.”
			    4
		  Mothers’ Talk.
	(a) Mothers should have the confidence
of their children.
	(b) Children should be taught the sa-
credness of life’s mission.
	(c) Self sacrifice.
	(d) Importance of cleanliness.
	(e) Plenty of sleep and pure air neces-
sary.
	(f) Good seeds bring forth good fruits.
	(g) Anything worth doing is worth do-
ing well.
	 “So close is glory to our dust,
		So near is God to man,
	When duty whispers low, ‘Thou must,”
		The youth replies, “I can.”
			    5
		    Associates.
	“An author is known by his writings, a
mother by her daughter, a fool by his
words, and all men by their companions.’’
	(a( We are creatures of imitation.
	(b) Better be alone than in bad com-
pany.
	(c) More of our education is received
by example than by precept. I Cor. 5:
9—13.
			    6
			Idleness.
    “Defer not till tomorrow to be wise.
    Tomorrow’s sun may never rise.”

[Column 2]
	(a) The idler shall not eat the bread of
the laborer. Doc. & Cov. sec. 42: 42.
	(b) No place in the Church for the
idler. Doc. & Cov. 75: 28, 29.
	(c) Teach young children how to work.
Doc. & Cov. sec. 68: 30, 31.
	(d) The idler shall suffer hunger. Prov.
19: 15.
	Committee—Adeline H. Savage, Mary
A. Gardner, Sarah Eagar.
		TOOELE STAKE.
			Lecture 1.
	    Our Boys and Our Girls.
	(a)	What shall they be taught and who
shall teach it.
	(b) Ignorance is not innocence.
	(c) The results of foolish modesty.
	(d) At what age should a boy or girl be
ready to share father’s and mother’s
work?
	(e) What would be the effect upon the
boy or girl, morally, physically and men-
tally by being allowed to go into society
too young?
	(f) How to retain the confidence of the
boy or girl as they grow up to manhood
and womanhood.
	(g) Parents should look well to the
company their boys and girls keep, for
therein lies the key to their success or
failure.
			Lecture 2.
		Purity of Thought.
	(a) From the abundance of the heart
the mouth speaketh.
	(b) Are not our minds and characters
made in a great measure by our thoughts.
	(c) Encourage pure conversation in the
home.
	(d) What is the result of impure con-
versation among our boys and girls.
	(e) To have pure thoughts, keep mind
employed in pure studies.
	(f) Can the Spirit of God dwell with
with those who encourage impure
thoughts and conversations?
			Lecture 3.
		Rights of Children.
	(a) We must not only be ready to talk
to and advise children, but also be ready
to listen while they talk.
	(b) The talk we have now with our
children truly “heart to heart” talk will
help them as the years go by to decide
for right and truth.
	(c) Children’s rights should not inter-
fere with the rights of others, and the
sooner they learn that most important
lesson, the better parents and citizens
will they in turn become.
	(d) One fault of parents is, that they
too often exact blind obedience from
their children.
	(e) A boy or girl in knowing the law
and obeying it, becomes a free moral
agent whom even God would not restrict.
	(f) Should we not respect the rights of
our children in public gatherings, that
when they arrive early and get a good
seat, should they be crowded out to make
room for some one who arrives there
late?
	(This might be modified.)
			Lecture 4.
		Partiality in the Home.
	(a) A simple hour of justice is worth
several years of prayer. 

[Column 3]
	(b) Justice knows no law but equity. 
	(c) No mother should ever speak in
her children’s presence of the ‘‘awkward
age,” thereby increasing the self-con-
sciousness of that period.
	(d) Necessity of parents being impar-
tial in the family circle.
	(e) Many children become discouraged
and fall by the wayside because their pa-
rents are manifestly partial in the be-
stowal of their love and encouragement.
	(f) God help our parents to all live aright,
	And may our homes all love and
		truth unfold,
	(g) Since life for us no loftier aim can
	hold
       Than leading little children to the
	right.
			Lecture 5.
		    Moral Training.
	(a) The object of moral and religious
training isto enable the child to recognize
the divine laws and learn to obey them.
	(b) Intellectual and moral training re-
quire personal and individual effort on
the part of each mother, which she often
fails to meet.
	(c) Be your children’s companion
yourself.
	(d) A truly religious person will be a
truly moral person.
	(e) The mother is the child’s first
teacher, and must teach her children
daily lessons in morality, patience, indus-
try and truthfulness.
	(f) Fortunate are the children whose
training and environments are such as to
establish habits of all the virtues. We
are trained in habits of morality, rever-
ence. honesty and courtesy,
	(h) The children of today are the so-
ciety, the church, and the nation of to-
morrow.
			Lecture 6.
			 Loyalty.
	(a) What is more beautiful than loyal-
ty in the home, where parents and chil-
dren enjoy each other’s society.
	(b) Parents must work,together and in
perfect harmony if true loyalty is to be
established in the home.
	(c) How can we create an atmosphere
of love and kindness in our home that
will be felt by all.
	(d) The necessity of children being
loyal to their parents and each other.
	(e) Honoring the priesthood of God
and those in authority over them.
	(f) The lives of our prophets and other
great men are examples of loyalty in
every sense of the word.
	(g) This above all to thine self be true,
thou canst not then be false to any one.
	Alice R. Woolley, President; Rose
Hammond and Maggie Anderson, Coun-
selors; Mary E. Halladay, Secretary.


Madame Curie, the discoverer with her
husband of radium, has been appointed
to the chair of the new professorship in
the Sorbonne, Paris, founded for her
husband. The minister of public in-
struction has ratified the choice of the
faculty, and “congratulates himself on
being the first Democratic minister of ed-
ucation to appoint a woman to what is,
in some ways, the most distinguished
chair in the Sorbonne.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in R. S. Hall,
Mesa, March 1, 1906, President Me-
lissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by the
usual exercises.
	Prest. Hunsaker made opening remarks,
felt pleased to see such a good attend-
ance.
	Reports were given from Mesa, Alma
and Pine wards. Much charity in dona-
tions, helping the poor, the sick, and those
who need comfort and consolation were
given in the last quarter. Mothers’ work;
Doctrine and Covenants lectures were
given in each testimony meeting; teach-
ers were punctual as a rule. The holding
of officers’ meetings had met with approv-
al; good instructions were given. The
Relief Society sisters were likened as
minute men to be ready aud willing when
duty calls. This organization was given
through revelation to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, this being the first organization
for women. They were to be minister-
ing angels to the poor, the sick and those
who were bowed down with grief, and in
preparing our loved ones for burial.
	Timely instructions were given by the
R.S. presidency and other sister speakers.
We should be careful not to speak slight-
ingly of another’s character, but have
charity for one another. That we should
be as wise as serpents and as harmless as
doves. The watchcare of our youth should
be considered.
	Closed by singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Benediction by
Counselor Isaac Dana.
			A. E. FULLER, Secretary.
		TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Toele Stake Relief So-
ciety Conference, held in Tooele City,
May 17, 1906. President Alice R.
Woolley presiding; present, President
Alice R. Wooley, Sisters Rose Hammond
Maggie Anderson, Bryan Nelson, and
Mary E. Halladay. Conference opened
with the usual exercises. President Alice
R. Woolley addressed the sisters; said
how sorry she was that our missionary
sisters were not present, she felt they
must have missed the train. She knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired when
he organized the Relief Society. The
sisters should study the Gospel. The
sisters do not aspire to be preachers but
they should be workers; we were sur-
rounded by the blessings and comforts of
life. Not one soul that belonged to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was destroyed in the San Francisco
disaster.
	Sister McBride reported the Tooele
Ward. Ten or fifteen new members had
joined the society; they had over 500
bushels of grain, and were going to build
a new granary. The teachers do good
work, they took for their subject, “Do-
mestic Science at Home,” in mother’s
work.

[Column 2]
	Sister Rose Hammond reported Grants-
ville; they had been blessed with means
to help the sick and poor; referred to the
sadness of Sister Tilly Johnson’s death,
they have about 600 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Shields reported Lake View.
They had enrolled most of the married
women in the ward, have 160 bushels of
wheat in the granary and quilts and ma-
terial to work with.
	Sister Louie Lee reported Mercur; they
help the poor, have plenty to work with.
Sisters Richards, Vowels and Lindburg,
rendered a musical selection.
	Sister Bryan spoke on the R. S. work;
said it was a rest to go to meeting. If
we do our duty we have no time to be-
long to any society outside of the Church.
We should not find fault with each other
we are all God’s children.
	Sister Nelson said we should meet to-
gether with pure hearts. Prayer makes
us acquainted with our Heavenly Father.
Our meetings are food for our bodies and
rest for our souls.
	Sister Maggie Anderson: “The Lord
will bless those who do the best they can
in his work. We should encourage the
presence of our guardian angels to guide
us aright. Sister Woolley said she had
heard from the sisters that were to have
attended the conference today, they had
missed the train. Conference then ad-
journed to meet at 2 p. m., after singing
and benediction.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Sister Alice R. Woolley presiding;
singing, prayer, and so forth. Sister Al-
strom reported the St. John society; said
they were united in their work.
	Sister Drouby reported Batesville.
	Sister Mary A. Atkins said it was pleas-
ant to meet with so many sisters; the
Lord would answer prayer if asked in the
right spirit. The sisters have a great res-
ponsibility on their shoulders. Sister
Bowen said she would rather listen than
speak. Prayed that no accident might
happen those that had come from a dis-
tance in returning home. Sister Lee said
it was a great pleasure to meet at Con-
ference, and a benefit to belong to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Naomi Gillette said we came
here for rest both bodily and spiritually.
We shall be judged by our Heavenly
Father and not by each other.
	Sister Drouby then sang a solo entitled
“The Garden of Eden.” Sister Spend-
love said her mother heard the Prophet
Joseph Smith speak and he spoke with
terrible power.
	A recitation was then given by Sister
Jones of Mercur, President Alice R.
Woolley then presented the names of the
General Board and the Stake Board and
they were unanimously sustained. Sister
Woolley said she was gratified with the
interest exhibited in the Relief Society
work, aad the great amount of work that
was being done. Knew that all the sis-
ters were not converted to the Relief

[Column 3]
Society work, we should act as mission
aries, She also spoke on the mother’s
work, and the blessings of motherhood.
We will be tested and tried; we should
be careful about speaking against the
authorities of the Church; we should
have the confidence of our children. In
unity there is strength.
	Singing, and after the benediction con-
ference closed until Oct. 11, 1906.
			MARY E. HALLADAY,
						Secretary.


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


UNDERGROUND WATERS OF THE VAL-
LEYS OF UTAH LAKE AND JORDAN
		RIVER, UTAH.
	A paper of value to every one interest-
ed in the use of underground waters in
the valleys of Utah Lake and Jordan
River has just been issued by the United
States Geological Survey as Water Supply
and Irrigation Paper No. 157. A brief
description of the topography, geology,
climatic conditions and surface streams is
followed by a discussion of the source,
distribution, manner of occurrence, and
quality of underground water. After the
general discussion the underground water
condition, in the most important areas are
described in detail.
	This report, which may be obtained on
application to the Director of the United
States Geological Survey, Washington,
D. C., contains also representative well
records and data concerning a large num-
ber of typical wells. These data include
diameter and depth of the well, height to
which water rises and the yield in gallons
per minute. The depths to water and the
areas in which flowing wells are obtained
are shown on the maps. A portion of the
paper of special interest to irrigators is
that devoted to the discussion of the
manner of determinining the yield of
wells. A table gives the yield in gallons
per minute of wells of various diameter
and size of jet.


The house of Lords has passed the
colonial marriages bill, which is to legal-
ize in the United Kingdom marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister legally contracted
anywhere in the British possessions. Such
marriages are legal in every country ex-
cept in the United Kingdom. For more
than fifty years efforts have been made
annually in Parliament to make marriage
with a deceased wifes sister legal, but
they have always been defeated in the
House of Commons or the House of
Lords.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY, 1906						No. 2


CONTENTS.
Passing Thoughts............ Annie Wells Cannon	9
General Relief Society Conference..................
	................................ Annie Wells Cannon	10
Mothers’ Work..................................................	11
International Council Notes, Mrs. I. H. Harper	11
In Memoriam....................................................	11
Relief Society Reports—Weber Stake..............	15
	Uintah Stake..............................................	16
Editorial—Ed. Notes—A Chronicle of the Re-
	lief Society—Visits of Missionaries.........	12
Poetry—The Story of the Cross........................
	........................................... Lydia D. Alder	9
	Edna’s Song—Maud Ellen Baggarley.......	11
	Pilgrims, 1847—Grace Ingles Frost..........	11


[Column 1]
THE STORY OF THE CROSS.
Across the Mediterranean
	We sail so far away,
To Palestine the ancient,
	In story famed alway.
’Twas there that Christ the lowly
	Once walked and talked with men.
My soul is filled with reverence
	To be where He was then.
I dwelt not there, when He did;
	His smile I could not see,
Nor in the fair Jerusalem
	Know of His agony;
But I believe His mission—
	That He was Christ—a God;
That He came down from heaven,
	With sinful mortals trod.
The Spirit beareth witness—
	’Twas sent when He was gone,
That all the world might know Him—
	This was the Christian dawn.
He was alone in suffering—
	Its depths not one could know,
Nor understand its meaning,
	Nor why His blood must flow.
The minds of men are dark’ned,
	They grope in shadows blind,
They hear the words He utters,
	His voice is wondrous kind,
Yet comes to them no meaning,
	His words are words alone—
That He the world would overcome,
	For all His blood atone.
And so He walked by Galilee,
	And teaches on the shore,
Or sails away in silence
	When they can bear no more;
Appeals to Him their weakness,
	And yearns His heart o’er them.
And with the Father He doth plead
	For loved Jerusalem,
He knows that He must suffer,
	That in Gethsemane
He will be left in darkness,
	And greatest agony,
The tenderness for others
	Is born ’mid pain and tears;
’Tis infinite, eternal,
	Outlasting all the years.
’Twas then, e’en prostrate lying,
	The flesh He overcame;
The apostles ’round are sleeping—
	He groans amid His pain.
The winepress He is treading,
	The wrath of God on Him;
Alone He is enduring
	The mighty weight of sin.

[Column 2]
The path is clear before Him,
	He must for sin atone;
His prayer for strength ascended,
	E’en to Jehovah’s throne.
Against the sky now dark’ning
	A cross, with arms stretched wide.
Hung on it, blood down pouring,
	The world’s Redeemer died.
His eyes, with death-film gath’ring,
	Cohorts of angels saw;
E’en then He might have weak’ned,
	And ne’er fulfilled the law.
But, no. to death He suffered,
	All men from death to free,
That they might be in glory
	With Him eternally.
This tragedy enacted
	Is writ in words of blood,
The storms of time defying,
	It has all things withstood.
E’en now it draws around it
	The gaze of all the world;
To pagan and to heathen
	Christ’s banner is unfurled.
Then His ascent to heaven—
	His witnesses were there—
And there, dense clouds enshrouding,
	He disappears in air,
They mutely stand around Him
	As He begins to rise;
In awe-imposing silence
	He mounts into the skies.
Then angels tell the story;
	“Ye men of Galilee.
	Why gaze ye up to heaven,
	Messiah still to see?
Lo, He likewise descending,
	Again to earth will come,
In majesty and splendor—
	Some time come to His own.”
This is the Mount of Olives,
	Earth pressed oft by His feet,
And these the scenes surrounding,
	The last His eyes to meet.
His earthly course is finished,
	The vict’ry He has won;
All things in earth and heaven
	Are subject to the Son.
Oh, is my heart, so burdened,
	Acceptable to Him?
Thou knowest, Lord, I love Thee,—
	Oh, purge me from all sin!
I would be Thine forever,
	I ne’er would stray from Thee—
I would be Thine forever,
	Forever with Thee be!
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
On the Mediterranean steamer “Orinoque,”
	April, 1905.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	RELIEF SOCIETY OUTING.—The four
Stakes, Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and
Ensign, joined in an outing to Saltair,
on the 19th instant, and the day was one
long to be remembered. As characteris-
tic of the Relief Society many of the
wards bought tickets and prepared lunch
for their poor and their aged, and the
long tables decorated with flowers and
laden with delicate and delicious viands,
looked very tempting indeed. Our gener-
al president, dear Aunt Bathsheba, Coun-
selor Ida S. Dusenberry, and general
treasurer Sister Williams, were guests of
the 17th Ward, while the general secre-
tary, Sister E. B. Wells, was the guest of
the 18th Ward.
	During the afternoon, and while the

[Column 2]
dinner was progressing, the Saltair band
came down stairs and played in the lower
pavilion. There was a splendid crowd,
and the day was most enjoyable. These
annual outings of the sisters are occa-
sions when without formality they can
join in one common pleasure, and the dif-
ferent societies become acquainted with
each other. We hope each year there
will be an increase in numbers and more
enjoyment.

	LECTURES.—Salt Lake has not been
considered a good lecture town. The
people throng to the play, light opera and
the resorts; are great lovers of music, but
rather taboo the lecturer. In a city
where so many fine literary clubs exist
and a splendid State University, not to
mention other fine institutions of learn-
ing are situated, it seems strange indeed
that Salt Lake should have such a name;
but recently through the lecture bureau
of the M. I. A. and the Summer School,
we are advancing somewhat in that re-
spect, and the people are beginning to
educate a taste for fine talk. Time was
when great speakers like Henry Ward
Beecher, Henry Watterson, General Lew
Wallace and others have given some of
their most brilliant talks to almost empty
houses, and even now we doubt if the
famed talkers of today chose the theatre
for a platform if the audience would be
what it should.
	An evening with some fine lecturer is
always profitable and pleasant, and the
work of the lecture bureau is certainly
commendable both from an entertaining
and educational standpoint.
	Recently Dr. Hughes, the famous ed-
ucator of Toronto, Canada, delighted the
teachers and friends of the University
Summer School with some of the finest
lectures we have heard, full of good
thought, and giving rich and fruitful ideas
to the parent and the teacher and delight-
ful for any one. The story telling lec-
tures of Miss Sara C. Bryant were also
amusing and helpful, and the public are
surely better by cultivating a taste for fine
lectures.

	CANYONS AND RESORTS.—In the midst
of summer, when the air in town is so
oppressive, and the sun heats the pave-
ments until the feet blister with walking
on them, and besides the year’s work
makes one long for change and rest, it is
delightful to be so situated that a short
ride by car or team can take one into the
most beautiful refreshing places.
	Near Salt Lake we have many such
places, and every day hundreds of people
avail themselves of them. Every after-
noon the cars are simply packed, carry-
ing the crowds laden with lunch boxes to
Saltair, the Lagoon and Calder’s Park,
while coach loads are frequently seen
seeking the more quiet resorts in the
canyons, Brighton, Wasatch, the Arm
Chair and City Creek. There is life and
health and pleasure lurking in all these
places, and they are a blessing to us if we


enjoy them properly, but there is also
danger if we allow an excess of pleasure.
Especially should the young folks guard
against anything that would lead to their
injury; for instance, excess in dancing,
very late trains and going off without
proper chaperonage. Loud laughter and
rudeness are too often evident among our
young people during their pleasure trips,
and while a pure enjoyment of life and
all good things is to be sought after, a
proper regard for the proprieties is to be
admired in every one.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
			(CONCLUDED.)

	Sister Hattie Blair of New York City
reported the Relief Seciety as not very
flourishing; some members have emigrat-
ed to Utah, and the members lived so
far apart it was difficult and expensive to
get together often. In Brooklyn the Re-
lief Society were studying Gospel books;
they have a number of young women in
that society, but as they are employed in
work they cannot always attend the
meetings; the sisters there would like to
have visitors from Utah sent to them.
	Sister Cannon, secretary pro tem., read
two communications from the First Presi-
dency, one treating on the storing of
grain and the other the “Word of Wis-
dom.”
	The Temple Quartette sang “Will there
be any stars in my crown?”
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. First thanked the singers for
their lovely music; said her heart was
filled with joy to see such a large audi-
ence; she only wanted to say a few words,
as she preferred to give the time to those
who had come a long distance; she had
been pleased with Brother Kimball’s re-
marks about the soldier boys; she never
saw the soldiers but what her heart ached,
and she knew it would always be a work
of credit to the Relief Society that they
had made this free donation to the sol-
diers in need.
	The speaker urged the parents to take
care of their daughters and keep them
safe from evil company, and not allow
them to associate with those not of our
faith, as marrying with them would only
bring unhappiness to their homes, and
the same with the boys; we want our
children to do right; prayed the Lord to
bless and help us to serve Him, and bless
our conference.
	President Martha Keeler of Utah Stake
appreciated the privilege of reporting the
stake; they had many good faithful sis-
ters; at the close of the past year they
had the misfortune of losing their presi-
dent, Sister Mary John; spoke of the pio-
neers, new buildings, new wards organ-
ized; said since the new officers had
been installed they had visited the entire
stake. In Provo City the Relief Society 
had four halls and four granaries. They
had over 4,000 bushels of wheat stored
and nearly four hundred dollars to buy
wheat; she felt the spirit of gathering
wheat was beautiful. They had taken
up the Mothers’ work systematically and
were also studying the Doctrine and
Covenants, and in that stake they were
especially interested in the nurse work.

[Column 2]
Sister Emma A. Empey, superinten-
dent of nurses, spoke very interestingly
of the nurse work, and alluded with a
great degree of pride to the class gradu-
ated last June under Dr. Roberts;
thought they were all doing good work.
Sister Empey explained that while she
was willing to do all she could for the
nurses here, as superintendent, yet she
felt that those who came from other lo-
calities had better go back and give the
benefit of their training to those who
sent them; she hoped the presidents
would encourage the girls to come to the
class this fall; she felt her own work was
confined to Salt Lake City; she knew of
no branch of Relief Society better than
nursing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts thought it
seemed strange that we could forget as
the years went by why things happened.
“It has seemed to be forgotten how the
nurse work originated. The scheme was
devised that the poor were to be taken as
good care of as the rich.” The Doctor
then explained the conditions, and said
the new class would begin next Septem-
ber the sisters would learn about it
through the EXPONENT; urged the sisters
to send intelligent women; felt the best
that could be done for them was to get
them good homes here while they were
pursuing their studies; she was interested
in that, and Sister Beatie had rendered
good assistance in this matter; she knew
it was a beautiful thing to know how to
care for our bodies, but she wanted to live
long enough to get out of the training of
nurses, for she realized that spiritual
training and Gospel study was higher; we
should not be content with what our pa-
rents know, but study more, be better
managers and have more time to study
our religion.
	President Rebecca Standring of Alpine
Stake was thankful to meet in Relief So-
ciety conference; her mind reverted to
1842, when there were only eighteen
members, and look at our great numbers
now; she had labored nearly forty-five
years in the Society; was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake in good condition;
officers hold meetings once a month, and
three or four wards hold conjoint meet-
ings once in three months, thus creating
a spirit of union; she felt satisfied they
were doing well in Mothers’ work; was
proud of the sisters in Alpine Stake.
	Notice was given of the evening meet-
ing at 7:30, and the Temple Quartette
sang, “Send us the sunlight.” dismissed
with prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Can-
non.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
				Secretary pro tem.


MOTHERS' WORK.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
Lecture I.—Honor to the aged.
	(a) Duties of children to parents. (b)
Social obligations to the old. (c) Grey
hairs a sermon.
Lecture 2.—Veneration for sacred
things.
	(a) Proper conduct in houses of wor-
ship. (b) Respect for the Sabbath, (c).
Veneration for sacred ordinances.
Lecture 3.—Purity of thought.


(a) Impure thoughts precede impure ac-
tions. (b) To the pure in heart all things
are pure. (c) How to gain pure thoughts
Lecture 4.—Sacredness of covenants.
	(a) Value of a promise. (b) When a
promise may be legitimately broken. (c)
What should be as sacred as a vow.
Lecture 5.—Pride.
	(a) Pride rightly controlled is one of
the grandest attributes of the human
mind. (b) True pride to be cultivated.
(c) False pride to be shunned. (d) True
pride the keynote of all noble aspira-
tions.
Lecture 6.—Cheerfulness.
	(a) Cheerfulness smooths the way of
life’s weary travels. (b) Brings sunshine
however dark the day. (c) How to make
home cheerful.
Lecture 7.—Kindness.
	(a) Power of kindness. (b) All crea-
tures susceptible to kindness. (c) Kind-
ness misapplied.
Lecture 8.—True nobility.
	(a) How to be truly noble. (b) The
Savior the grandest type of true nobility.
(c) Illustrate by sketch of noble life.
Lecture 9.—Slander.
	(a) Persons who willfully vilify their
neighbors are guilty of serious crime,
often causing the downfall of the innocent
and unsuspecting. (b) Define slander.
(c) How to avoid the habit of slander.
Lecture 10.—Idleness.
	(a) The root of all evil. (b) Cause and
effect. (c) How to prevent idleness.
Lecture 11.—Proper respect for others'
rights.
	(a) Application of the Golden Rule.
(b) Courtesy due from one to the other.
(b) In helping others to stand you insure
your own standing.
Lecture 12.—Evils to be avoided.
	(a) To sustain by uplifted hand the au-
thorities of the Church, stake, ward or as-
sociation, then use your influence against
them. (b) Unkind criticism. (c) Imputing
evil to actions not understood.
ELIZABETH C. PIGGOTT,
LOUISA A. COLE,
MARGARET MORGAN,
Committee.


Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt of Brooklyn
Borough, New York, who will be 106 years
old next month, is making her annual tour
of Connecticut. The trip is being made
in an automobile, which travels by easy
stages from one town to another. Hither-
to the annual tour which Mrs. Hunt in-
sists on making each year has been ac-
complished mostly by train.—Ex.


Relief Society reports already set but
left over for want of space are Liberty,
Alpine and Bear Lake Stakes, also
Woman’s Voice from Parowan, these will
be used in the August number, which will
soon be issued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDNA'S SONG.
MAUD ELLEN BAGGARLEY.
Night shadows have hidden the town,
And the lights of heaven shine;
While adown the river of dreams
Thou art drifting, child of mine;

That beautiful river of dreams
Floweth on through peaceful vales,
’Neath cloudless skies, where flowers bloom
And fairies tell wond'rous tales.

Dost find the country of thy dreams
More suited to baby feet?
Are they kind, the dream-folks there,
To little ones small and sweet?

Wilt thon return to mother soon,
O child, with thine eyes of blue?
Or is she a part of a dream,
And this world a dream-land, too?
Salt Lake City, June 12, 1906.


PILGRIMS, 1847.
GRACE INGLES FRO[-]T.

In the shadows of the Wasatch,
	Those mountains rugged and grand,
Standing like mighty sentineis
	Guarding the arid land,
A little band of pilgrims,
	With feet so weary and torn,
Stood gazing upon a salt sea waste
	At the dawn of a summer morn.

They had traveled many toilsome miles,
	This weary pilgrim band,
In search of an unsettled country,
	Some peaceful, better land.
They left on the cheerless prairies
	Their footprints of blood on the sod,
That they might have a haven of rest,
	With freedom to worship God.

And those unfaltering hearts courageous
	Gave thanks when their prophet and seer
Said, as he looked on the valley,
	“We will make our new home here;
In these vales where only the redmen dwell,
	We will build up Zion, and all will be well!”

Have his words proved true?
	Look at this valley’s fertile lands!
	What has become of the saline sands?
The wilderness smiling most fruitful has grown,
And the desert like unto the rose has become.

All praise give to God and that pilgrim band
Which left Illinois in search of a land
Where man may worship as God has decreed!
’Twas those faithful people who sowed the first
	seed,
The seed of religion as well as of grain,
And the ground for their sake so fruitful became,
That we are now reaping in after years
The fruits of those seeds sown in faith, love, and
	tears.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES.

MRS. IDA H. HARPER.
	There is no agency so effective for tak-
ing the bumptiousness out of the Ameri-
can woman as the International Council
of Women. This might apply to those of
other countries also, but their egotism is
not of so colossal proportions. It is a
good thing from every point of view for
the women of Australia, for intance, to
counsel for a week with those of Austria,
the women of Canada with those of Swe-
den. These four countries are ably rep-
resented here, as are New Zealand, Hun-
gary, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Nor-
way, Belgium, Holland and Great Britain.
Of the twenty countries belonging to the
Council, the only ones which are not rep-
resented are Denmark and Argentina.
	During the past year officers of the
Council have visited Greece, Turkey and

[Column 2]
Portugal with the object of assisting the
women there to form National Councils.
The wife of the Chinese ambassador to
Great Britain has presented the matter to
the Empress of China, and Lady Aberdeen,
international president, has asked the
Empress, through Sir Ernest Satow,
British ambassador to China, if some Chi-
nese lady residing in Europe may be ap-
pointed as vice-president for China. The
Empress has authorized the Chinese am-
bassador to call upon Lady Aberdeen and
inform her that this would be done. So
out of all this tangle of official red tape
there may emerge an affiliation of Chi-
nese women with the International Coun-
cil. Through the kindness of His Excel-
lency Viscount Hayashi and Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Stead, sojourning in Japan, the
question has been presented to many
prominent ladies in that country, and a
Japanese Council of Women is likely soon
to be added to the long list.
AMERICANS LET DOWN.
	In the beginning, American women hon-
estly believed that they were the ablest
in the world in every respect; that Ameri-
can men were the most just and liberal
in the world; that the United States
granted more freedom to women than any
country in the world. To the present
meeting came the women of Finland,
radiant with the victory of having gained
the full suffrage on exactly equal terms
with the men and the right to sit in Parlia-
ment, although their first Woman Suffrage
Association was formed less than two
years ago. The women of Australia and
New Zealand have had the full vote for
many years, and the former the right to
sit in Parliament. The women of Great
Britain. Sweden and Norway have every
form of the franchise except that for
members of Parliament, and the pros-
pects are encouraging for obtaining that
in the near future. Woman suffrage is a
government measure in Holland. It looks
as if the women of all the more progres-
sive countries would be enfranchised be-
fore those of the United States, and we
can no longer exploit the freedom and
liberality of our country at these interna-
tional meetings.
HONORS FROM THE CITY.
	During the Berlin congress, two years
ago, much prominence was given to the
recognition it received from the munici-
pality, the city appropriating 10,000
marks ($2,500) for a reception and ban-
quet to the delegates, and the entire body
of aldermen receiving them in state. This
action has been in a measure outdone by
the Municipal Council of Paris, which ap-
propriated 5,000 francs ($1,000) to be ex-
pended by the local committee of the
French National Council of Women on
this international meeting. The munici-
pal government did not stop with this, but
gave an afternoon reception for the dele-
gates in the magnificent Hotel de Ville-
After they were assembled in the hand-
some salon, the entire board of city fath-
ers came in and stood at attention before
them, while several of their number de-
livered addresses of welcome and sympa-
thetic encouragement. Then all were in-
vited to partake of the collation spread
on a long table in one end of the room
and served by immaculately-clad waiters.
	All the large theaters here, which are

[Column 3]
under national control, placed boxes at
the disposition of the council committee,
and delegates were entertained on Satur-
day evening with opera and drama which
lasted well into Sunday morning.
SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
	At the last intermational executive,
which was held in London, a resolution
was adopted that henceforth there should
be less in the way of social entertain-
ment, as this consumed time which ought
to be given to work. French hospitality,
however, has been superior to official re-
solves, and every day the delegates have
been entertained at beautifully appointed
luncheons of seven or eight courses.
Among the hostesses have been Madame
Jules Siegfried, wife of the cabinet min-
ster and Senator and Madame Alphen-
Salvador, founder of one of the large city
hospitals. A pleasant feature of these
luncheons has been that in every instance
the men of the family, husband and sons,
have been present to welcome the guests.
	The university women joined with the
Society for Political Equality—rather a
unique combination—to give an afternoon
tea for the delegates, at which many
clever speeches were made. All seemed
to be united in the demand for the higher
education and the right of suffrage. The
former is offered to women on the same
terms as men in the Sorbonne.
AMERICAN DELEGATES.
	Delegates to these meetings are limited
to the International Council officers, presi-
dents of National Councils and chairmen
of standing committees. Those from the
United States should have been Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, president of the Na-
tional Council; Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
chairman of the committee on suffrage
and the rights of citizenship, and Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, honorary president
and chairman of the committee on peace
and arbitration. All were unable to come,
and their proxies are Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and
the present writer. Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of Mary Jane Wheelan who de-
parted this life, September 23rd, 1905.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His in-
finite wisdom, called from our midst our beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary Jane Wheelan, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
and the faithful discharge of her duties in this
society makes it eminently befitting that we record
our appreciation of her, and feel comforted in the
assurance that, if worthy, we will meet and enjoy
her society again,
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God that His comforting
influen[-]e may be with them, and lead their hearts
to acknowledge His goodne[-]s even in their sore
bereavement.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Third ward Relief
Society that we mourn our loss and that we appre-
ciate the purity of her life and the worthy example
she has set us to follow. Be it further 
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased: be placed on
the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the EXPONENT and our local paper for publication.
		Gone to a peaceful, happy rest,
		Free from life’s grief and pain,
		Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
		Our loss is her infinite gain.
	Mary E. Abel, Ann E. Clayson, Carrie Daniels.
	in behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-		JULY, 1906


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith has ap-
pointed a committee some time since to
examine lectures that have been given by
the sisters in connection with the Moth-
ers’ work in order to have them published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, or to be ex-
changed in the Society, wherever wanted.
This idea is for helpfulness for each other
in the work, a sort of reciprocity. This
committee of ladies is a very competent
one, and will be conscientious in consid-
ering the manuscripts entrusted to it, and
consists of Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs.
Rebecca E. Little, Mrs. Elizabeth L. Wil-
cox. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas is chairman,
and those who have lectures to circulate
or to have considered with a view to
benefit others will please send the manu-
script to Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, No. 137
N. West Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	The Relief Society Nurses Class will
begin this year September 17th, and con-
tinue eight months. It will be taught at
the L. D. S. University by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts. There will also be a course
of lectures on practical cooking; mem-
bers of the nurse class will be allowed to
attend the lectures given at the L. D. S.
University on theology, hygiene and do-
mestic science, Charges for tuition, $10,
always in advance. Anyone desiring to
take the course and not wishing to sign
the contract for seventy-five days charity
work may do so on payment of $50
tuition fee. For further information ap-
ply to Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N. West Tem-
ple, or Dr. M. C. Roberts, 79 C. Street,
Salt Lake City. Circulars with full in-
formation are already issued to all Presi-
dents of the Relief Society. 
	The reception given by the Directors of
Calder’s Park to the First Presidency of
the Church on Friday, July 13th, and
which included Dr. James T. Hughes of
Toronto, Canada, the famous educator,
was indeed a “red letter day” for all
those who were honored with an invita-
tion on that happy occasion: The guests
felt themselves highly honored by the
feast at table, as well as the fine exercises
of music and song, and the graceful and
appropriate speeches from the platform
in the dancing hall. The day was perfect,
and when the tables were spread under
the beautiful trees in the park the real
feast began, for in addition to conversa-
tion there were some of the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful short talks, and a response from
the brilliant Dr. Hughes, such as one sel-
dom hears from strangers sojourning
among us, even when partaking of our
hospitality and the freedom of our beauti-
ful city. Dr. Hughes had listened atten-
tatively to President Joseph F. Smith,
who spoke from the platform in the af-
ternoon in his strong and forceful way of
our mountain home, and its settlement
and his crossing the plains in his boyhood
days, and the Dr. must have been deeply
touched by the ingenuousness of soul
that characterized the pathetic reminis-
censes. Apostle O. F. Whitney gave a 
little impromptu talk in his most genial
style on education in the early days, and 
altogether Dr. Hughes must have been
strongly impressed with the earnestness
and devotion of those with whom he
came in contact. The evening was
charming, the sunset on the water, its re-
flection on the lake and mountains be-
yond, the moonlight afterwards, and the
launches and skiffs, with the men and
women, young and old, who mingled in
the pleasures, the well kept grounds af-
forded, formed a delightful part of the
program of the day.


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
I.
	The spirit of fraternity, and of love for
one another began in the Latter-day
Saint Church in the days of Kirtland,
about the time the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his wife Emma came to that historic
town in February, 1831. This fact might
be demonstrated by many little incidents
that transpired in those early days among
the sisters, and possibly will be when a
complete history of the Society which
was afterwards organized is written. How-
ever, for the present, after pointing out
the spirit of sisterly love and charity that
existed prior to the establishment of this
grand and flourishing organization, it is
only the design of the writer to give a few
facts chronologically.
	The Relief Society proper was organized
by the Prophet Joseph Smith at a meet-
ing held in the Lodge Room, in Nauvoo,
Illinois, where the Saints settled after
leaving Missouri. The Temple was con-
templated and the people were preparing
to build. Some few sisters were very
anxious to assist in this great undertak-
ing in some systematic way, and talked
the matter over; finally the subject was
presented to President Joseph Smith,
who told them to meet together and he
would organize a society suitable for be-
nevolent purposes. The spirit of the
work was in the hearts of these good,
God fearing women, and those who knew
of the project came together as des-
ignated. There were only eighteen
sisters present and they nominated their
own officers and elected Emma Smith
President, Sarah M. Cleveland and Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Counselors; Eliza R.
Snow, Secretary; Phebe Ann Wheeler,
Assistant Secretary; and Elvira S. Coules,
Treasurer. The President was the wife
of the President Joseph Smith, and she
was designated “The Elect Lady” by
revelation given some years previous, and
was then ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures. Her nomination and election by
the sisters in that remarkable meeting of

[Column 2]
women, in that early time shows they
“builded better than they knew.” Looking
back it is wonderful to contemplate, yet we
who know so much of the Prophet Joseph
cannot but believe that he foresaw what
the future of this important Society would
be. Emma Smith’s was the first ordina-
tion to this calling of any woman, and
took place many years before any of the
churches extant had ordained women
ministers. (Their names are all given in
the minutes of that meeting.) Only one
of all that number is living at the present
time, our honored and beloved President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. How emi-
nently appropriate that she should occu-
py the position of “Elect Lady” in this
ripe hour of the Society when it has at-
tained such permanency, and celebrity
throughout the world. Identified with it
as she has been from the very commence-
ment, and through the entire sixty-four
years and more, promoting in every pos-
sible way its best interests; she stands to-
day a living witness of its growth and de-
velopment through all the various stages
of its onward progress, and has always
been foremost in any great enterprise for
the women of Zion.
	From the little handful of sisters who
met on that ever memorable day, March
17, 1842, in the next two years the increase
in membership reached nearly 2,000, and
the amount of charity work was some-
thing marvelous for those early times
when womens’ organizations were un-
known. Strange indeed that these young
sisters—for they were all under forty
years, except one—should have asked for
organization, and given the Society
a name, the Relief Society, that has re-
mained with it, acceptable to all those
who have come into the ranks since; even
with the newer ideas and modern ad-
vancement among womankind; doubtless
the name will be held in honorable repute
while there are works of charity to be
done for suffering humanity, and while
there is need of kindly ministrations.
	The Relief Society could not operate
as an organized body of workers when the
people were scattered hither and thither,
at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
but the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
brought away the records, which was an
important part of the Society, and served
a legitimate purpose in reopening the
work after the Saints had gathered here
in these mountain vales.
	President Brigham Young following in
the footsteps of his predecessor, called
upon the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
in the year 1855, to go forth and assist
the Bishops of the various wards, (that
had been organized under his direction)
in organizing a Relief Society in each
ward. He suggested that she take as
her assistant Sister Zina D. Young.
	Previous to this there had been some
temporary organizations and charitable
work had been done necessary to the con-
ditions of the people living where the na-
tive Indians came freely among them, it
was positively necessary to provide some
clothing for them, as well as food. Much
of this was done by the sisters in these
temporary associations. To be sure there
was much to be done for neighbors and
friends, but little to handle in the way of
means until a few years had elapsed;
then came the time when permanent soci-
eties were provided as mentioned, and
Sister Eliza R. and Sister Zina D. went


[Column 1]
from ward to ward helping the Bishops
to organize as indicated. From that time
onward the Society continued to grow
although there was no linking together
into one great whole until some years
later. In these earlier temporary socie-
ties she who stands at the head now was
diligent and faithful.
	It is not the purpose of this article to
tell the story, only to give a few pertinent
facts in relation to a society, that has
taken a very foremost place, not only as
an auxiliary in the Church of Latter-day
Saints, but it is known in the world outside,
among those not of our faith, as one of
the most flourishing organizations of wo-
men banded together for the higher ad-
vancement and permanent growth of all
that tends to the betterment and uplift-
ing of women; and of life itself in its de-
velopment religiously, socially, mentally,
morally, and physically.
	The Relief Society is not alone a charit-
able institution, but stands for all that
will tend to bless and elevate home life,
the community and the great common-
wealth; in short, the universal brother-
hood and sisterhood of the world. The
spirit of the work permeates the soul of
those actively engaged in the performance
of its duties and responsibilities. But it
is not the object of the writer to elabor-
ate, but to chronicle events in their order
as relating to the grand achievements so
far as it has progressed until the present
period of its status.
	As towns and settlements grew under
the direction of President Brigham Young,
and those associated with him in settling
and colonizing Utah, and the surrounding
territory, there was in every ward one of
these societies of sisters, each with its
perfect equipment of officers and teach-
ers, such helps as were necessary to take
care of all those who needed assistance
of whatever name or nature, and the
local society and the Bishop of the ward
and brethren associated with him worked
in unison and harmony in building up the
ward and looking after the public inter-
ests. Meetings were held by the sisters
regularly, weekly or semi-monthly accord-
ing to the conditions of the people and
the surroundings in the respective so-
ciety. Finally there came a time when
President Young thought best to solidify
the wards into stakes consisting of a num-
ber of ecclesiastical wards convenient to
group together, and appointed a president
and two counselors to preside over each
stake.
	This same theory was afterwards put in
practice with the organizations known in
each ward as the Relief Society, President
Brigham Young himself leading out in
this direction.
	On the 19th of July, 1877, Sister Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden City, who had
been for some time presiding over the
wards within the city, and had been suc-
cessful in promoting several kinds of
employment for women and girls, invited
President Brigham Young to come up
and attend a meeting in Ogden City, and
to bring with him those he wished to ac-
company him; meantime Sister Richards
had invited the sisters and brethren of
the county from far and near to attend
the meeting, little anticipating what
would transpire; President Young, his
Counselor, President D. H. Wells, and
some of the Apostles, Sister Eliza R.

[Column 2]
Snow and the writer of this article also
being of the number, went up on the
morning train, and were present when
President Brigham Young called and ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards to pre-
side over all the womens’ organizations in
Weber Stake of Zion. This was the com-
mencement of the consolidating of the
various branches of the Relief Society
into a stake organization.
	After some months President Jane S.
Richards chose her counselors, Mrs. Hat-
tie C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick,
and Mrs. Amelia M. Frodsham, secretary.
This constituted the Presidency of the
Relief Society of the Weber Stake.
	The second organization of a Relief
Society in a stake capacity was Salt Lake,
December 22, 1877. Notice having been
duly given President John Taylor and
some of the Apostles were invited to the
meeting, but were detained by business.
Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter and
Elder A. Milton Musser attended. Miss
Eliza R. Snow was elected chairman of
the meeting, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, secre-
tary, Miss Amy Adams assistant secretary.
The chairman explained the object of the
meeting and stated that President Brig-
ham Young had inaugurated a movement
previous to his death which she consid-
ered it proper to carry out. The meet-
ing was conducted strictly in accordance
with parliamentary usage. Mrs. Mary
Isabella Horne was elected President of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood, counselors,
and Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, secretary
Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox cor. secy.; at a
subsequent meeting Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith was elected treasurer.
	Very soon after, at a meeting purposely
called at Farmington, Thursday, April 3,
1878, the branches of the Relief Society
of Davis County were grouped together
in a stake organization, Mrs. Sarah I.
Holmes was elected pres[-]dent, Mrs. Mary
S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark counselors,
and Miss Minerva Richards secretary.
	On April 21, 1878, at the Nephi meet-
ing house (Sunday), President George
Teasdale officiating, Apostle Erastus
Snow and Jacob G. Bigler being present,
the Juab Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized. The officers were Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough president, Mrs. Elizabeth
Kendall and Mrs. Jane Picton counselors,
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth secretary, and Mrs.
Amy L. Bigler cor. sec’y.
	Box Elder Stake Relief Society was
organized at Brigham City, May 14, 1878
(Sunday). Bishop John Welch of that
place presented the names of the officers
who had been previously selected, they
were unanimously sustained: Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow president, Mrs. Susannah
P. Booth and Mrs. Mary Stark counsel-
ors, Mrs. Mary E. Snow secretary, and
Mrs. Emilia D. Madsen cor. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of Kanab Stake was
organized June 9, 1878 (Friday), by Pres-
ident L. John Nuttall. Officers—Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall president, Mrs. Harriet
D. Bunting and Lucy R. Johnson coun-
selors. Mrs. Mary E. Little secretary, Mrs
L. A. Johnson asst. secy., Mrs. E H. D.
Solomon treasurer.
	The Relief Society of Morgan Stake
was organized July 20, 1878 (Sunday),
President Willard G. Smith officiating.
Officers elected were Lydia Rich presi-
dent, Ann Fry and Martha Tonks coun-

[Column 3]
selors, H. Cordelia Smith secretary and
Sarah A. Rawle cor. sec’y.
	Tooele Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 20. 1878 (Friday), by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hunter president, Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg
and Mrs. Agnes Rich counselors, Mrs.
Mary A. House secretary and Mrs. Ann
Tate cor. sec’y.
	Utah Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 27, 1878 (Friday), by
President A. O. Smoot in Provo at the
meeting house. Sister Eliza R. Snow
was elected president of the meeting and
Albert Jones secretary. President Smoot
stated the object of the meeting and as-
sisted in the selection of the officers.
Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot president, Mrs.
Mary John and Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff
counselors, Mrs. Caroline Daniels secre-
tary, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball asst. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of St. George Stake
organized at St. George September 13,
1878 (Friday), by Apostle Erastus Snow.
Officers, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow presi-
dent, Mrs. Anna S. Iyins and Mrs. Han-
nah H. Romney counselors, Mrs. Eliza S.
Calkins secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth P.
Bentley asst. sec’y.
	Summit Stake Relief Society organiza-
tion was effected October 25, 1878 (Sat-
urday), Apostle Franklin D. Richards
and President W. W. Cluff officiating
The officers sustained were Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards president, Mrs. Ann Cluff
and Mrs. Mary W. Reynolds counselors,
Mrs. Jane S. Boydon secretary.
	Millard Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized January 28, 1879, by President Ira
N. Hinckley, at a mass meeting held at
Fillmore (Tuesday). The officers sus-
tained were Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt presi-
dent, Delilah K. Olsen and Sarah L. Par-
tridge counselors, D. K. Olson secretary.
	Bear Lake Stake Relief Society was
organized April 17, 1879 (Friday), at
Paris, Idaho, by Apostle Charles C. Rich.
Mrs. Julia P. Lindsay was elected presi-
dent, Mrs. Elizabeth Collings and Mrs,
Maria Rich counselors, Mrs. Alice M.
Rich secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Pug-
mire Assn’t secretary.
	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake
was organized at Manti May 19, 1879
(Tuesday), by President Canute Peter-
son, the officers having been previously
appointed at a stake conference. Mrs.
Mary Ann P. Hyde president, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Allred and Mrs. Annie U. Larsen
counselors, Mrs. Fanny Kofford cor.
secy.
	The Relief Society of Sevier Stake was
organized at Richfield June 16, 1879
(Tuesday), by President R. K. Thurber,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Isabella M.
Horne. Mrs. Elizabeth Bean president,
Mrs. Jane Spencer and Mrs. Thirza M.
Thurber counselors, Mrs. Catherine Hunt
secretary.
	Wasatch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized at Heber City September 3, 1879
(Wednesday), by President Abram Hatch,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells. The meeting was held in the
Heber City meeting house. Mrs. Emma
Brown was elected president, Mrs. Sarah
Alexander and Mrs. Mary Daybell coun-
selors, Mrs. Mary Bronson secretary.
	Parowan Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized September 28, 1879 (Sunday), at
the stake conference, President Henry
Lunt and Bishop Arthur officiating. Offic-
ers were Ellen W. Lunt president,


Mary Ann Lunt and Huldah D. Mitchell
counselors, Sarah Chatterley secretary
and Jane Mackelprag cor. secy.
    Panguitch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized February 3, 1880, Apostle Eras-
tus Snow and President James Henrie
officiating. Officers elected were Mrs.
Barbara Myers president, Mrs. Sarah P.
Crosby secretary.
    Beaver Stake Relief Society organized
by President John R. Murdock. Mrs.
Lucinda Hand president, Mrs. Flora S.
Shipp secretary. 
    June 28, 1880, the Eastern Arizona
Stake was organized, with Mrs. Willmirth
East president, Mrs. Emma S. Smith and
Lois R. Hunt counselors, Ida F. Hunt,
secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited by missionaries from the
General Board of the Relief Society in
July of this year: Pioneer, Friday, July
13, in Pioneer Stake Hall, S. L. City, Sis-
ters Julia P. M. Farnsworth and Elizabeth
S. Wilcox.
	Ensign Stake, Friday, July 13, Eleventh
Ward meeting house, S. L. City, Sisters
Alice M. Horne and Rebecca E. Little,
who is also counselor to the president of
that Stake.
	Wayne Stake, Saturday, July 14, at
Loa, Sisters Ellis R. Shipp, and Priscilla
Smith.
	Alpine, July 20, Pleasant Grove, at new
meeting house. General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and General Secretary
Emmeline B. Wells. 
	Nebo, Friday, July 20, at Payson,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde, and Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	Blackfoot, Friday, July 20, at Basalt,
Idaho, Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sister Phebe Young Beatie;
	Teton, Thursday, July 26, at Driggs,
Idaho, Sister Priscilla Smith and Claire
Little Clawson.
	Davis, Friday, July 27, at Farmington
meeting house, General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith, General Secretary Em-
meline B. Wells and Sister Priscilla P.
Jennings.
	Fremont, Monday, July 30, Rexburg,
Idaho meeting house, Sisters Priscilla
Smith and Claire Little Clawson.
	San Juan, Thurscay, July 31, at Man-
cas, Colorada, meeting house, Counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister Annie
Wells Cannon.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	I send you a brief sketch of the life of Sister
Elizabeth Brook Fox, who passed away April 9,
1906:
	Sister Fox was born at Leeds, Yorkshire, Eng-
land, January 5, 1825; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
March, 1851. On April 23, 1861, she sailed for
America in the ship Underwriter; she arrived at
Florence June 2nd, and at Salt Lake City on Sep-
tember 12, 1861; she then moved to Lehi, where
she married Elder Charles W. Fox, February,
1862. In November she with her husband moved
to Franklin.
	June 2nd, 1874, Sister Fox was set apart as pres-
ident of the Franklin Relief Society and served
in that capacity for ten years.
	When the Oneida Stake was organizsd she was
set apart as Stake President of the Relief Society;
she labored faithfully in that office for 16 years,
when failing health compelled her resignation.
	During the time she was president she and her
counselors, Sisters Mary Hawks nnd Anne Hale,

[Column 2]
traveled many miles visiting the branches in the
stake which at that time was a very large one.
	She was of a mild and loving disposition; her life
was full of good works and her many virtues en-
deared her to all who knew her.
	She was a noble woman and and the fruits of
her labors can be seen throughout the Oneida
Stake.
	Sister Fox was the mother of t[-]o children, one
son and one daughter, 17 grandchildren and 10
great grandchi dr[-]n.
	The funeral services were held Wednesday,
April 11 under the direction of Counselor Thomas
Durant. The remains were conveyed in a hearse
from the residence of her daughter, Mrs. L. L.
Hatch, to the me[-]ting-house, followed by the
family and members of the Relief Society, under
the direction of the president, Sister Annie
Challis.
	Services opened by the choir singing, "O my
Father;" prayer by I. B. Nash singing, "O grave,
where is thy victory?" Speakers were L. H. Hatch
of Logan and H. E. Hatch; solo by I. B. Nash,
"Shall we meet beyond the river?" speakers were
C. Go sland, President Geo. C. Parkinson, S R,
Parkinson and Thomas Durrant, all addressed
words of consolation to the bereaved family. Ben-
ediction by E. Buckley,
	The floral offerings were numerous and beauti-
ful. The grave was dedicated by L. H. Hatch,
ANNIE CHALLIS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Franklin Relief Society,
	That we mourn the loss of our honored presi-
dent; but that we appreciate the goodness of her
life and the worthy example she has set us to fol-
low.
	Resolved that we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss, is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved that a copy of these reso-
lutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety and also published in the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.
PRESIDENT ANNIE CHALLIS.
Franklin, Idaho.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Mary I. Loveland of Deweyville,
Utah, who departed this life January 12th, 1906.
Deceased was born March 27th, 1861, she was the
daughter of Miles V. and Margaret M. Gardener,
and wife of Orson C Loveland. The deceased
was the mother of 10 children 9 girls and one boy.
	The officers of the Deweyville R. S. offer the
following resolutions:
	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and colabor-
er has by the hand of divine providence been re-
moved fr m our midst, and has, we feel confident-
ly assured gone to a better world, we her sisters,
who know of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express our tender
sympathy for the bereaved family and to acknowl-
edge her labors and ministrations of kindness as a
member of the R. S., and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word. There-
fore be it
	Resolved we do humbly testify that charity and
humility were leading traits of her character, and
that she was a loving wife and mother; and be
it,
	Resolved that we, the sisters of the society of
which she was a member so long, may follow her
noble example of diligence and faithfulness,
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our ward record, also to be printed in the Woman's
Exponent, and copies sent to the family.
	Hannah E. Loveland, President; Martha M.
Lish, Sec.; Bashua A. Chapman, Asst. Sec.
	In behalf of the Deweyville R. S.
SISTER ANNA M FOLKMAN.
	Sister Folkman passed away from this sphere of
action, March 26, 1906, after six weeks illne[-]s.
She was 84 years old the 5th of last February She
died as she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint;
beloved by all who knew her, surrounded by her
husband and family and kind and loving friends,
her last words being "Be united." Until her last
sickness she was able to do her own work and take
care of her husband.
	Sister Anna Maria Peterson, was the daughter
of Jence C. and Anna C. Peterson, was born Feb.
5, 1852, in the city of Rands, Jydlund, Denmark;
her mother died when she was five years old and
when she was 12 her father died, she had one
brother younger than herself; they were then left
to themselves. She passed through many hard
trials, and much severe sickness. She was mar-
ried to J. G. Folkman, in the spring of April 26,

[Column 3]
1848, was converted to the Gospel after having
heard it preached three times. She with her hus-
band was baptized Dec. 5, 1851. Emigrated in
1853, came to New Orleans in a sailing vessel, then
up the Mississippi to St. Louis She had cholera
twice and was healed each time by the power of
the priesthood. Came across the plains with ox
teams and walked the entire way, arrived in Salt
Lake City Oct. [-], 1854. Brother and Sister [-]olk-
man first settled in Lehi, from there went to Plain
City as pioneers, from there they were among the
first to sett[-]e in Soda Springs, Idaho, and were
among the first Saints to settle in Gentile Valley,
Idaho, in each of these places she held one or
more offices in the R. S. She was teacher and
treasurer in the R. S. when it was first organized
in the latter place, which off[-]e she held as long as
she was able. Not having any children of her
own she took a great interest in helping to raise
her husband's children. This dear sister passed
through much sickness, and all the horrors of the
crusade, which was very trying on her, had small
pox as late as 1900, by which she almost lost her
eyesight. Her faith was very great in the power
of healing by the priesthood, and she was ever
ready to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. After much suffering she passed peace-
fully away. Her complaint for the last few years
was chronic bronchitis, followed by dropsy.
	The funeral services of Sister Anna M. Folk-
man were held in the new meeting house at
Thatcher Ward, Idaho, March 29, 1906, Bishop
J T. Pond presiding. Singing by the choir,
"When first the glorious light of truth. prayer by
Brother Nelce. Graham. Singing, "Sister, tho[-]
wast mild and lovely." The speakers were Coun-
se[-]ors Geo. C. Peck, Patriarch W. Sterrit, John
B. Thatcher and Christopher Folkman, her Broth-
er-in-law, of Plain City, who gave a sketch of her
early life; they all bore testimony of her excellent
qualities and firm faith in the principles of the
Gospel of Christ, said her doors were ever open
and her table spread for the Saints and Elders and
she was ever on hand to assist the poor and her
motto was to "return good for evil." Spoke of the
glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful,
	Stake President L S. Pond heartily endorsed all
that had been said, spoke of her many good
qualities, said no one had ever done Sister Folk-
man a favor without getting threefold in return.
Spoke of what a glorious meeting it would be when
her husband would be permitted to meet her in the
mansion prepared for the faithful. Bishop J. T.
Pond made some very consoling remarks. Sing-
ing, "Farewell, all earthly honors." Benediction,
Counselor Geo. D. Anderson.
COM.
RENDINA OLSEN.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Rendina Olsen
who departed this life June 4, 1906.
	Sister Olsen was born in New Hedemarken, Nor-
way, September, 1848; embraced the Gospel in
her childhood and came to Utah in 1866. Sister
Olsen was an active member of the Relief So[-]i[-]ty.
having acted as one of the counselors to the presi-
dent of that association for a great many years,
and we realize that we have lost a dear friend and
efficient co-laborer, and while we mourn the loss
of her society here, we also realize that our loss
is her gain, and she has gone to meet her reward,
far from the storms of mortal life.
	The funeral was held in the Santaquin Ward
meetinghouse, which had been beautifully decor-
ated.
	The services were conducted by Bishop J. M.
Holladay. The speakers paid a beautiful tribute
to her life and character in their remarks, and the
choir sang appropriate hymns.
	The beautiful casket that held the mortal remains
of Sister Olsen was loaded with floral gifts. A
broken wheel was presented by the members of
the society. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of carriages. May
she rest in peace.
	Whereas, It has pleased the Great Creator to
take unto Himself our beloved sister who has been
a faithful worker in the Relief Society, never tir-
ing in well doing, a devoted friend to the poor and
a kind and loving wife and mother, therefore
be it
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Santaquin Re-
lief Society that we tender our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved family and relatives, and while
we mourn not as those who have no hope, yet we
realize that we have lost a faithful counselor who
died as she had lived, in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be put upon the
records of the society and be sent to the EXPO-
NENT for publication.
ALICE ELLSWORTH, Sec’y.
Santaquin, July 13, 1906.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LYDIA MAY LYMAN JONES.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Lydia
May Lyman Jones unanimously adopted at a
meeting of the Relief Society of Bluff Ward, held
June 7, 1906.
	Whereas, it has pleased God to summon from her
earthly abode to another and more exalted sphere
of usefulness, our dearly beloved sister, Lydia May
Lyman Jones, and
	Whereas, her life and labors in the ward and
Society have been such as to endear her to all her
friends and associates; therefore
	Resolved, That we her sisters of the Relief So-
ciety of the Bluff Ward, hereby express our ap-
preciation of her example, her labors, and her
faithfulness to every trust reposed in her, which
we have seen and enjoyed during the years of as-
sociation together.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family, and that we hereby place on
record our testimony of her exemplary life and
labors as a devoted wife and loving mother; that
we condole with the whole community, and with
the hosts of friends and relatives in other settle-
ments; that while we lament the death of our as-
sociate and co-laborer, we bow in humble submis-
sion to ‘Him who doeth all things well.’
	Resolved further, That a copy of these resolu-
tions be put upon the record of this society; that a
copy be sent to the bereaved family, and that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation. 

	A noble one from us has gone.
		A work on earth is done,
	The battle has been bravely fought—
		The victory is won.

	We mourn that now thy loving face
		No more on earth we see;
	By faithful work with heaven’s grace
		We’ll meet again with thee.

	Dear sister all thy toil is past,
		Eternal rest is thine.
	And though we mourn death’s bitter frost,
		We bow to will divine.

	Sleep sweet till resurrection dawn;
		No sorrow stir thy breast.
	To well earned comfort thou art gone—
		Rest! noble sister, rest!
						R. S. BLUFF.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
WEBER STAKE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion. held at Relief Society Hall in
Ogden City, Utah, on Thursday, June 14,
1906. Conference convened at ten
o’clock a. m., president Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Bishop Robert Mc-
quarrie. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Minutes of the March conference were
read and approved.
	President Richards made opening re-
marks; was pleased to meet again with
the sisters, and thankful that there were
so many present at such a busy time; felt
that those who were here were desirous
of being here, and that they were living
so as to deserye and secure the blessings
of the Lord.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was
thankful to be present; spoke of the
many times we have met throughout the
Church in this capacity, and of the many
brethren grown grey in this cause,and who
had been faithful through it all, it gave her
great joy to mingle with the Saints in
this capacity, and she felt that they were
all choice spirits, and considered it a great
blessing to have this privilege to live
and associate with them; her desire was
to have the loving confidence of her
brethren and sisters, and Sister Shurtliff
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.


[Column 2]
	President L. W. Shurtliff was pleased
to be present at this conference; was
pleased to listen to the minutes of the
last conference, and to notice the good
spirit there present and the good in-
structions which were given; “We should
seek the Lord, to know what was best to 
do and then do it to the best of our ability;
we often hear people say that they are
old, and that their work is done,” Felt
that he and Brother Middleton had grown
old in the work, but he considered that
their work had only begun, the example
and spirit of the sisters gave great en-
couragement to the brethren;felt that the
Lord would not desert this cause or his
people; had no fear of this congregation;
there are some who speak lightly of the
Lord’s anointed, but the daily labors of
the members of this organization and the
examples which they have set, have been
of greater benefit than anything else they
have done; although we may not be per-
fect, yet the Church organizations are,
because they lead up to the redemption of
mankind; was thankful that the Lord had
spared his life until this time; rejoiced to
know that his mother was with the first
organization of the Relief Society and a
member of it, and asked the Lord to
bless Sister Rfchards and all the officers
and members of these organizations.
	Sister Charlotte E. Driver was glad to
meet with the sisters again, as she had
been on a visit to the coast for some time
past, rejoiced to meet her dear friends
again; it had been very hard to leave all
that was so dear to her; desired the Lord
to direct her, so that she would do the
right thing, and was always proud to let
it be known that she was a member of
this Church; spoke of the San Francisco
disaster, and referred to the care taken of
the Saints there by the president of that
branch; and closed her remarks by ask-
ing the blessing of the Lord upon all.
	President Middleton was pleased to
have another opportunity of meeting with
the sisters in conference capacity; spoke
of his long association with President
Shurtliff and Brother Flygare, and of the
union which had always existed between
them, they had also associated with the
many Bishops of the stake in times past,
and with the various Church organizations
of the stake, and felt that such association
had been a great blessing to him; loved
to mingle with all because it helped to
strengthen him in his daily labors, felt
that we should develop, and not devote
too much time in the pursuit of wealth,
spoke of having called upon Sister Har-
riet Brown, and that he had found her
through all her afflictions to be the same
cheerful sister he had always known her
to be, was pleased to have Sister Driver
with us again, and felt proud to know
that we have such representatives out in
in the world.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie enjoyed the
conference this morning; “We are mak-
ing our own history, and we should not
live for temporal things alone; spoke of
the divorce evil of the day, that the usual
complaint was that of non-support, and
said that the women of the earlier days in
Utah had more cause for divorce than the
women of today who ask for a divorce,
for there were many times that the early
settlers did not know how to support their
families; felt that we should put our trust
in the Lord, and He will provide, knew
that the Lord had placed choice spirits on

[Column 3]
this earth to fill positions of trust, and
that this people would be known as a
people who could be trusted in all things.
	Sister Rees, of Pleasant View, had
been connected with this work ever since
she was seven years of age, and had al-
ways had a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and was very grateful for this
blessing; felt that we should teach our
children to love the truth and the princi-
ples of the Gospel, in order to become
good men and women in the Church.
	Sister Mary Taylor said she had been
in the Church all her days; was thankful
for the experience of going through the
persecutions and trials that she had en-
dured, because it gave her an experience
which she could not get in any other way;
had listened to the voice of the Prophet
Joseph, and loved to go to meeting and
hear him speak; said she could remember
the organization of the Relief Society,
and that she would like to spend the re-
mainder of her life in doing Temple work,
if circumstances permitted, because she
felt that the Temple was as near heaven
as we could get in this world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing re-
marks, and the conference adjourned un-
til 1:30 o’clock p. m. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by Elder
L. D. Rudd.

	At 1:30 o’clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.” Prayer by Bishop Al-
bern Allen Bingham. Singing, “Think
not when you gather to Zion.”
	Brother L. D. Rudd felt that the Saints
should be thankful for the testimonies
they have of the truth of the Gospel, and
that they are blessed above all other peo-
ples of the earth; rejoiced that he was a
Latter-day Saint, and bore his testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Frances B. Dance exhorted all to
live so that we would be prepared for the
coming of the Savior; and reported the
West Weber ward as a good and faithful
ward. Sister Sarah Hunter, Taylor
Ward, felt that by attending to our duties
it strengthens us to withstand all temp-
tations, and reported the Taylor Ward in
good condition. Sister Lucretia B. Farr
said that she had been a member of the
Relief Society all her life; was pleased to
be associated with such a band of sisters,
reported the Third Ward in good condi-
tion. Sister Rachel Gale, of Uintah, de-
sired the Spirit of the Lord to direct her
in what she said, bore a faithful testi-
mony reported the Uintah Ward in good
condition. Sister Johanna Agren, of Har-
risville, had a desire to lay up treasures
in heaven, so that she could reap a re-
ward therefor; reported the Harrisville
Ward as being in good condition. Sister
Margaret Jones, of Kanesville, was thank-
ful to be present and partake of the spirit
of the Lord; reported the Kanesville
Ward in a good condition. Sister Sarah
J. Shupe, of Eden, was thankful to have
been born and raised in the Church, re-
ported the Eden Ward as doing well.
Sister Mary M. Dye, of Riverdale, desired
to live in the manner and way of the
Lord, and reported the Riverdale Ward
as a faithful ward. Sister Agnes Herrick,
Second Ward, Ogden, said there was a
beautiful spirit present this morning; said
there was a good deal expected of us,
and that it was a delightful work; when


[Column 1]
she spent an afternoon in visiting her
ward she felt well paid in doing so; the
Lord had heard and answered her prayers;
reported her ward to be in a good condi-
tion. Sister Sarah A. Martin, Wilson,
said we should love and respect each
other, and have charity toward all, and
reported the Wilson Ward to be in good
condition.
	Bishop Albern Allen Bingham, of the
Middleton Ward, said it was interesting
to listen to the experiences of our moth-
ers; it seemed harder for the younger
generation to remain faithful on account
of the temptations surrounding them; was
thankful to have lived so that he could
hold the priesthood, and he knew that
there was power in it.
	Sister Mary J. Maycock, of Pleasant
View, hoped that we would put into
practice the good instructions which we
had received, and that we should pay
more attention to our spiritual than to our
temporal affairs; she felt that whenever
we meet in this building we enjoy a good
peaceful spirit; reported the Pleasant
View Ward as doing well. Sister Bing-
ham, Middleton Ward. said they have
their meetings every Thursday, they have
a glorious time. and reported the Middle-
ton Ward as doing a good work.
	Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.”
	Sister Richards extended an invitation
to those present to bear their testimonies,
and testimonies were borne by Sisters
Frances Wood, North Ogden, Sister Niel-
son, Huntsville. Sister Helena Lee, of
Far West, a Sister from Plain City,
Sister A. M. Bailey, Mound Fort, and
Sister Stove Thomas of Lynne.
	President Richards instructed the sis-
ters to hold their meetings once a week
if possible, as that was one of the pur-
poses of the organization; wished the sis-
ters to remember Sister Brown in their
prayers and in their meetings, and also
Sister Herrick, who years ago was one of
her counselors, but now resides in Logan;
prayed that we might always have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
	Sister Emily M. Shurtliff said that we
had heard so many good things that she
felt she could not add anything further,
that she had visited Sister Brown, and
her health was about the same, but that
she was always the same sweet woman,
wished the sisters to remember her in
their prayers and in their meetings;
prayed the Lord to bless all, that we may
remain loyal to the truth.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie felt that he
had been greatly blessed in listening to
the sisters, spoke of visiting a sister who
was compiling a genealogy. said it was a
pleasure to him on account of the faithful
testimony she bore; we should try to help
those who have temptations placed in
their way, for there are those who need
this care; felt grateful to know that testi-
monies were increasing among us, that
the young often bear a strong testimony;
asked the Lord to bless this organization,
and all like organizations, and Sister

[Column 2]
Richards with her counselors and all the
members of the Relief Society. Brother
Middleton said that he had enjoyed the
meeting very much. agreed with Sister
Richards in asking that the sisters hold
weekly meetings.
	Conference then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Up, awake ye de-
fenders of Zion.” Benediction by Presi-
dent Middleton.
	Ellen W. HAMER, Ass’t Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE. 
	Minutes of the 39th Conference of
Uintah Stake Relief Society, held at
Maeser June 1, 1906.
	There were on the stand Sisters Emma
Woodruff and Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board from Salt Lake City, all
the stake officers of Uintah Stake and a
good representation of ward officers, and
several brethren.
	President Sarah M. Colton presiding.
After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, roll call and minutes, Sister Sarah
M. Colton said she was well pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to have the
privilege of having with us some of the
sisters from Salt Lake City of the general
board; she could not report the stake be-
cause circumstances had been such that
the stake had not been visited the last
quarter.
	Sister Hannah Odakirk reported Vernal
Relief Society, Sister Phoebe Hislop
Maeser Relief Society, and Sister Annie
Casper, Naples Relief Society.
	Recitation trom Glines Relief Society,
by Arrila Haddock, entitled “The Price
of a Drink.”
	Sister Emma Woodruff, one of the gen-
eral board, was pleased to meet with the
sisters once more; the duty of the Relief
Society was not only to look after the
poor but the souls of men, especially our
sons and daughters; spoke of economy;
it is our duty each and every one to try
and take care of what the husband brings
in to the house; spoke of patience, and of
our missionary work; gave the sisters
counsel in regard to gathering grain.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams of the gen-
eral board was pleased to meet with the
sisters in this far-off stake, and to see that
they are trying to work for the upbuilding
of the kingdom of God; said we should
try and love our neighbors as ourselves,
and to make everybody happy around us,
especially our children; gave the secre-
taries and treasurers counsel in regard to
their duties; asked the blessings of the
Lord upon us all.
	Select reading from Naples Relief Soci-
ety by Sister Edna Powell entitled “Our
Times.”
	Sister Annie Young related some of her
experiences as a missionary on the Sa-
moan Islands.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton spoke of the la-
bors of the sisters at home, especially
those with large families, and of the tes-
timonies we had heard, and what a grand
mission a mother has; gave the sisters a

[Column 3]
good deal of advice in regard to their du-
ties.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, President Sarah M.
Colton presiding. We continued our ser-
vices with the usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett spoke at some
length on Relief Society work; especially
the teachers; she also spoke of mothers
qualifying themselves so they would be
able to teach their children the principles
of the gospel.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society, Sister Mary J. Searle re-
ported Mt. Dell Relief Society, Sister Lid-
dia Wall reported Jensen Relief Society.
	Song from Vernal Relief Society by
Sister Jane Bennion.
	Sister Emma Woodruff thought by the
numbers present and the distance the sis-
ters had to travel, it showed all were in-
terested in their labors; she spoke on Re-
lief Society work; we should be kind to
the stranger and teach them the gospel.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams thought we
had heard enough from Sister Bartlett
for food for thought without any more;
she repeated a parable of a woman who
had faith in the Lord; spoke of being kind
to the stranger and the danger of drink,
card playing and forming bad habits.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks; felt to thank all for their
attendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Glines Ward. Singing and
benediction.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Dr. Roberts’ Private Class in Obstetrics.

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence
her next private class in Obstetrics on Mon-
day, October 8th, 1906. Students attending
this class will also be allowed to attend the
Relief Society Nurse Class at the Latter-day
Saints’ University free of charge.
	The students successfully passing the ex-
aminations will not enly receive the Doctor
Instructor’s Certificate, but also one from the
Medical Board of Utah, which allows them to
practice Obstetrics the same as a physician.
		Lessons five days a week.
		Tuition fifty dollars.
		Books from six to eight dollars.
	For further information write to Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C. Street, Salt Lake
City; Utah.
	Telephone 2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1906						No. 3


CONTENTS.
National Council of Women..............................	17
News About Women..........................................	17
A Queen’s Idea of a Lady..................................	17
Relief Society Reports—Alpine Stake—Bear
	Lake Stake.................................................	18
Woman’s Voice..................................................	19
In Memoriam.................................................... 19-22
Relief Society Reports—Wayne Stake—En-
	sign Stake—Liberty Stake—Pioneer Stake
	—Oneida Stake......................................... 23-24
Editorial—The Spirit of the Age—An Inter-
	esting Entertainment..................................	20
	A Chronicle of the Relief Society..............	21
	Editorial Notes...........................................	22
	Visits of Missionaries................................	24
Poetry—Weariness............................................	17
	Journey Across the Sea and Plains............	19


WEARINESS.
BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

A long dusty road, a hill—
Upward slowly and painfully toiling
Goes a woman old and bent and gray,
Her tired hands bear a heavy burden,
And graves are the mile-stones of her way.

All is silent and dreary,
Even the trees like specters stand
Bereft of autumnal-tinted raiment—
The touch of winter on every hand.

Leaden and gray the sky above—
Brown and sear the earth below—
Look up, Pilgrim, and rejoice!
For the God of heaven wills it so.

If earth held only gladness. 
Sunshine and flowers alway;
And the heart knew naught of sadness,
Thou wouldst even forget to pray.

The deeper the darkness
The brighter the light
That shall fall on thy weary eyes,
And weariness, loneliness be but a name,
In that land beyond the sk[-]es


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF FRENCH WOMEN.

	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.

	“During the recent Executive Com-
mittee meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women at Paris, the French Coun-
cil held one public session, to which all
the international representatives were in-
vited. There we heard woman suffrage,
between the lines of the witty and bril-
liant reports of the Council’s four depart-
ments: Philosophy, education, labor, and
legislation.
	“Finally, after an address from the In-
ternational President, Lady Aberdeen,
and a word of greeting from each of the
representatives of other national councils,
Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg of Fin-
land expressed her thanks to the noble
women of all lands whose work for the
uplifting of womanhood had, in her opi-
nion, made possible the enfranchisement
of her countrywomen through the act of
May 28, which conferred upon Finnish
women the right to vote and to be elected


to all offices on terms of perfect equality
with Finnish men.
	“Mlle. Monod. president of the French
Council, then called for a few words from
the representative of India, and Madame
Rustem Cama of Bombay, in picturesque
East Indian garb, in a charmingly simple
and at the same time dignified manner,
said, in English: ‘I feel that the one thing
we all ought to work for is to get the right
of suffrage for women. In my own coun-
try we are under foreign rule, and neither
men nor women can vote. We have had,
for the last twenty-one years, a large po-
litical union, and in it men and women
both are delegates. We want the right
of suffrage for women as well as men, for
we have seen, in all countries where men
are freed first and leave the women be-
hind, that it then takes many generations
to bring the women up to an equality with
the men. So we in India have started to-
gether. We want justice for women, and
the right to vote.’
	“The men of Finland, even when their
own rights hung in the balance, were wil-
ling to demand equality of rights for their
countrywomen, and thousands of East In-
dian men associate women with them in
their work for political recognition, and
ask that the women shall come with men
into the kingdom of political freedom.
	“Think of that, American men, who
claim to regard American women so high-
ly, yet are willing to allow your mothers
and sisters to be classed politically with
idiots and criminals!”


[Column 1]
		NEWS ABOUT WOMEN.
	A new line of work is opening for trained
nurses. Many of the big transatlantic
liners are now carrying a pair of trained
nurses on each trip, and it is said that
they make such a good thing out of it that
others are sure to follow.		Ex.
	The international conference in Den-
mark, if it accomplishes nothing else, will
open the eyes of Europeans to the aggres-
sive nature of the movement to give to
women a legal, political, educational and
social statuts equal to that of men. The
time has gone by to deride that move-
ment. In spite of numerous defeats, it is
surely gaining ground.—Anaconda (Mont.)
Standard.
	The large number of Whitehall women
who went to the polls yesterday and re-
gistered their choice for school trustees
was a step forward and an advance in ci-
vilization. It forcibly reminds us that the
time is coming when woman will be al-
lowed the use of the ballot at any elec-
tion, and that she is step by step severing
the disfranchisement which an unfair cus-
tom has thrown around her.—Whitehall
(N. Y.) Times.
	In the State of Washington, the hus-
band still has the legal right to will the
children away from their mother. He
can thus bequeath even a child that is un-
born at the time of the father’s death.

[Column 2]
Less than three years ago a husband willed
an unborn baby away from its mother,
because his religious belief differed from
hers, and the child was taken from her
arms at two weeks old. Nor is this law a
relic of barbarism handed down from the
remote past. It was enacted in 1896. Yet
the opponents of equal rights assure us
that the laws are “more than just to
women.”					Ex.
	We had the pleasure, of meeting Lady
Laurier and her distinguished husband
when they visited Salt Lake City about
two years ago, and as many of our people
reside in Canada, we are very glad to
know that Lady Laurier favors woman’s
speaking in public, and has herself opened
the way in the British domain, according
to the following note which appeared in
one of our exchanges.
	“Lady Laurier, the wife of the Premier,
is the only woman who has delivered a
speech in the Canadian House of Parlia-
ment. She was discovered at a reception
at the foot of the throne, and at once a
demand was made for a speech. She was
at first abashed, but ascended the steps
and made what was described as “a pretty
oration.”
	The Czar has signed Finland’s Woman’s
Suffrage bill. This is a great victory for
the women of that little island. Baroness
Alexandra Gripenberg gave a most inter-
esting account of the causes that led to
the recent victory of equal suffrage in that
country, and now that the Czar has signed
the bill it is indeed a triumph. The Ba-
roness has been long associated with the
International Council of Women, and has
been an active worker for the political
freedom of the women of her native land.
She was a representative of Finland at
the Congress of Women at the Columbian
Exposition in Chicago in 1893.


A QUEEN’S IDEA OF A LADY.
	When the Dowager Queen Margherita
of Italy recently was asked her idea of a
lady, she described her as “soft of speech
and manner,” but with perfect control of
herself, loyal, with the ability to practice
self-denial and self-restraint.
	This royal definition of a lady opens the
door to all womanhood. There is no ex-
clusion here, no mention of the 400 nor of
any other limited body of fashion. Every
woman may be a lady, according to Queen
Margherita’s generous inclusiveness.
	Shakespeare, when he made King Lear
speak of the dead Cordelia, his youngest,
and in his affliction his only loyal daughter,
had in mind such a lady as Queen Mar-
gherita describes:

Her voice was ever soft,
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in
	woman.

	Only by the use of the word “woman,”
it is evident that his idea was that the
finest woman is the finest lady.—Boston
Globe.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
at Pleasant Grove July 20th, 1906, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. We
were again honored with the presence of
our beloved General President Bathsheba
W. Smith and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, also nearly all our Stake board
and presidents of wards. Meeting opened
at 10 a.m. After the opening exercises
President Standring expressed herself
highly honored in the attendance of our
leading sisters to day. Reported Alpine
Stake in good condition, advancing and
improving. Felt we were much blest to
day and congratulated the sisters of Pleas-
ant Grove on their beautiful new meeting
house.
	Lehi 1st ward reported by President
Mary A. Anderson; Lehi 2nd ward, Presi-
dent Kate Allred; Cedar Fort President
Margaret Bennett. President B. W.
Smith said she loved Relief Society work
better than anything except the Temple.
Felt it was good to meet together, it
strengthens and helps us. Wanted the
young mothers worked into the Relief
Society. Thinks we will meet and rejoice
together when we pass away from this
earth. Had received her endowments in
the days of the Prophet Joseph and had
associated in temple work ever since,
when that work was being done; before
we had Temples here officiated in the En-
dowment House. Felt very happy to be
here and to see the sisters so united; pray-
ed the Lord to bless us with means to
carry on the work.
	Singing by the Choir. “The time is far
spent” etc.
	Brother Jas. H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency felt always to appreciate these
meetings. “We have a good part of the
strength of the Church among these sist-
ers, and there is a very nice representation
here to day; many of you have had long
experience and if you could impart these
experiences to the younger portion of the
sisters how much good you could do,
though in some cases perhaps your ad-
vances would be repulsed. Our children
should be trained while they are little
tots, for when they get into their ’teens
it is almost impossible to manage them
and they are liable to get away from us if
they have not had proper training in
childhood. We are a progressive people
and we are raising a generation who do
not fear anything, but if we can teach
them to fear God, they will not go far
astray. The sisters are an important part
of this Church and there is a great re-
sponsibility resting upon them. How this
work is increasing and how our hearts en-
large and how much cause we have to re-
joice. The Lord has blest Sister Smith,
she is a representative of the first organi-
zation of this Society in Nauvoo, and we
are proud to see her and hear her testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
are like children and we will grow and
develop until we are fit to associate with
our Father in heaven.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells declared she
was very happy to be with us to day.
Loved the mountains and liked to seem
so near to them. Had been delighted
with Brother Clarke’s remarks on the
training of children. It is necessary to
keep a strong guard over our children.
Called attention to Sister Smith as the

[Column 2]
only representative of the Society in Nau-
voo, she stands pre-eminent as the first
woman in the Church. We are doing
greater things now than in early days; if
we were to be put back fifty years we
should find a great difference; we have
been looking forward to something great.
President Woodruff used to say that when
Joseph F. Smith became President of the
Church we should see great things, and
since Sister Smith has been President
great things have been done in the Relief
Society work. Pesident Joseph F. Smith
in his remarks at Conference said the Re-
lief Society stood next to the Priesthood
in representation among the auxiliaries
of the Church. Sister Wells loved the
sisters of the Relief Society. There is no
such women in the world, they are trained
to speak from the heart, they have a
testimony of the gospel and are able to
bear it before the world.
	Singing. Benediction. Adjourned until
2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: Conference re-con-
vened 2 o’clock. President Standring pre-
siding. After the opening exercises some
of the wards were reported. President
Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant Grove;
Linden, President Cordelia Thorne; Ame
rican Fork 4th ward President Alice T.
Steele. The reports were given in a spirit-
ed manner, all seem to be enjoying their
labors and are in good, flourishing con-
dition.
	Sister Sina Chipman expressed her
satisfaction in being privileged to be home
again among her friends after her travels
in Europe. Appreciated her mountain
home, and to love the gospel more than
ever. Had been inquired of in Scandi-
navia concerning friends who are here.
The saints in the old countries are long-
ing to hear from their friends in Utah.
They would give much to just meet and
shake hands with the President and Apos-
tles. This work is a great work and it is
growing and advancing. We have much
before us and it will require our best
efforts to keep pace with the times. We
know nothing of poverty in this land,
there is plenty of it in the old countries,
had seen more in London than in other
places. Had found over one hundred
people of her kindred and felt thankful to
meet and get acquainted with them.
	Solo by Miss Driggs.
	General President B. W. Smith was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith and was the only remaining member
of the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety. The last words she had heard the
Prophet say were, that he wanted to preach
a sermon on baptism for the dead for he
had received a revelation on that subject,
but he never had the opportunity to preach
again. “The endowments were given in the
Nauvoo Temple when it was in an unfinish-
ed condition and were just the same as they
are now, and every one who was with in
reach received them, but the work had to
be rushed because the mob were upon us
and we were driven out in the frost and
snow.” Sister Smith buried her mother
and her baby on the road after leaving
her home in Nauvoo. Desired the boys
and girls should get a testimony of the
gospel for it is worth more than riches
and some day the Prophet Joseph will
meet with us and bless us in our labors.
	Song. Miss Halliday.
	Sister E. B. Wells hoped the sisters

[Column 3]
would remember what Sister Smith had
been speaking about, because she had told
them of the Holy order and we should im-
press these things upon our children for
they are greater than anything the world
can give, our ordinances are very sacred and
should be held so by our sisters, and they
should keep their garments sacred and
not cut them off here and there, but keep
them as they were received in the Temple.
Thought there must have been a good
spirit here today to draw out the remarks
of Sister Smith for these are things she
seldom speaks about. Many of our little
boys hold a portion of the Priesthood and
we should bear that in mind. We want
our mothers to make their homes attrac-
tive and not allow the children to be neg-
lected.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi felt to appre-
ciate being here to day and to hear the
teachings of these sisters who have been
members of the Church so long, the world
ought to be converted to the truth in the
testimonies of these noble women.
	President Standring had enjoyed the
remarks of the sisters, the instruction is
something we should all remember; and
mothers should impress upon their child-
ren the importance and the sacredness of
our Holy Temples. Hoped the remarks
of to day would be indelibly impressed
upon us all, and may the peace and bles-
sing of God rest and abide with us con-
tinually.
	Singing. “We thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Closing prayer Counselor
Annie C. Hindley. Conference adjourned
for three months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	We held our Conference of the Bear
Lake Stake Relief Society, June 24th,
1906, which consisted of 2 meetings Of-
ficers meeting held in Tabernacle Vestry
10 o’clock Sunday morning, and through
the chilly weather we hold our general
meeting in the Paris 1st, Ward Meeting
House at 2 p. m. President J. P. Lindsay
presided at both meetings.
	We had with us Sisters Margaret Caine,
and Hattie B. Harker of Salt Lake City and
had a very pleasant time together. After
the opening exercises, wards were report-
ed by Presidents or Counselors, and the
conditions of the wards were better under-
stood, and corrections and advice given
where needed.
	Our beloved President J. P. Lindsay
considering having past her 82nd birth-
day, is very bright and continually, with
the help of her counselors exhorts the
sisters to be up and doing; but there is
always room for improvement, a good
spirit prevailed during Conference and a
desire to progress.
	President William Rich met with us in
both meetings and gave us much instruc-
tion that will be of great benefit if put
in practice.
	Sister Caine spoke considerable on
Temple work during Officers meeting,
and exhorted the mothers to teach their
children the sacredress of their religion
and Sister Harker said the President
of the Society of each ward is the mother
of the sisters, and we should all try to do
our best in every way possible to help the
work along. Benediction by Nancy Allred.
	LOUISE TUELLER, Cor. Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JOURNEY ACROSS THE SEA AND PLAINS.

It is just fifty years ago today,
	Since we left home and native land,
To gather to Zion and to obey
	The true and Latter-day command.

In company with my Sa[-]nted mother,
	Three sisters and a little brother,
Six weeks in a sailing vessel we came,
	The good ship Thornton was its name.

	It was a rough voyage; we had a terrible storm,
but we felt that God was at the helm and we were 
safe in His care. 

When we arrived at the New York shore,
	We were thankful to see land once more.
Thence we traveled by train to Iowa;
	And six weeks there we had to stay,
Until they fixed the hand-cart train;
	So we could start to cross the plain.
Ah me! how much to us that word con-
		tain,
	The great and dreary desert plains.

	It was the fifteenth day of July before we could
start upon our overland journey; and for five 
weeks we traveled on without cessation.

Never even stopp’d for rest on Sunday,
	We were in the buffalo country.
Most of our cattle stampeded one night,
	Leaving us in a dreadful plight.

	For five days the men were out searching for 
them, but it was of no use, they were lost indeed,
and it was beyond our power to recover them. 

It was of no use, men searched in vain,
	And then the camp marched on again,
But afterwards our good Captain Willey thought
	We’d keep the Sabbath as we ought.

	The few cattle that remained were yoked up
with the cows, and every handcart carried an
extra hundred pounds of flour, but our rations
fell short.

To these Pilgrims cold and hunger came,
	But we travel’d on just the same,
Strong men failed, for it was very hard
	To walk all day, and at night stand guard.
Many died martyrs, but they are all right,
	Bravely and well they fought the good fight,
God will remember them; I know what I say,
	They’ll come forth in the Resurrection day.
I remember one day, feeling so sad—
Mother was sick, and look[-]d very bad,
Others were dying, and she might die too,
	And I wondered, if so, what we would do;
I wept at the thought, she saw me and said
	“Dinna greet, but pray to him overhead, 
Who tempers the wind, to the shorn lamb;
	I’ve prayed and I’ve promised to never com-
		plain,
Whatever the trials we have to pass through,
	If our lives are spared we’ll be faithful and
		true.”
She kept her word and my eldest brother,
	Robert A. Bain, met us at Green river,
With teams and supplies, and no mo[-]e starv-
		ing. 
Mother could lie down and rest herself, saying,
	“I’m thankful as if in the kingdom of
		heav’n.”
We arrived safe the last of November, 
	A day of rejoicing that we all remember.
Four now have passed over to the other side. 
	Faithful and true they lived and they died.
Boys, this is the path your mother has trod
	I pray you hold fast to “the iron rod,”
And follow the path that will lead you to God,
No earthly riches can ever compare
	To the reward reserved for the faithful
What joy and rejoicing when we get where
	Our loved ones and all the righteous dwell,
And as the song says, in my heart I say,
	“The trials of the road will be as nought,
When we get to the end of the way,”
	And partake of the blessings they’ve brought.
			BETSY SMITH GOODWIN.
Beaver, Utah, May 2, 1906.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
My Dear Sister:—
	In response to your kind note of May
25th I felt that I must take time to tell
you of our latest movements as Relief
Society workers, in this stake; I believe


in all the wards the sisters are doing fair-
ly well, in the larger towns particularly
so. In the Parowan ward the Relief So-
ciety is making a mighty effort to build
themselves a commodious and respectable
building; we have purchased a building
spot, and last evening closed the contract
for one hundred thousand brick, which
are to be ready by the last of July. Next
Sunday at 2 p. m. we hold our conference
at Cedar City, we do not expect a repres-
entative of the General Board this time,
but at the best convenience of all will
call special meetings for our visitors.
Our Mothers work has given the hap-
piest results, beside attracting, the organ-
ization seems to be toned up, and is re-
garded as an institution of greater impor-
tance. On Thursday a sister will lecture
on Self Improvement, and I am to treat
upon the subject of “The higher ideals of
the home.”
	We held our Peace meetings May 27th,
were satisfied with the results; at Cedar
City I hear the meeting was one ever to
be remembered. Prof. Maybe of the
B. N. S. was the chief speaker and his
hearers were enrapt with his soul stirring
eloquence, and thoroughly endorsed his
plea for peace.
	Tomorrow our ward president, sister
S A. Adams with three of her daughters
leave for a three weeks trip to Los An-
geles, sister Mary A. Smith Wimmer (the
first counselor) is very poorly and is go-
ing to visit Salt Lake City, that she may
go to the temple and be baptized for her
health, I do hope she can go, she is a
noble character and has been called upon
to suffer much.
	Bishop Richards just stepped in, I de-
livered your kind message, he wishes to
be kindly remembered and prays that you
may have good health; Sister Adams said
she would write you: at our meeting on
Thursday and Sunday I will give your
loving sentiments to the sisters. I ap-
preciate your sisterly wishes for me and
mine, I feel we need to support each other
in this way, it gives us greater strength
and encouragement.
	I am very busy in many ways, but I
have enjoyed this indulgence of a pen chat
with you.
	May the best gifts of our Father’s be
yours,
		Lovingly,
			E. CRANE WATSON.
July 9, 1906.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		“He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer departed this life July
3rd, 1906, aged 72 years, at Cannonville, Utah.
She was the wife of George Spencer, who de-
parted this life 1872. She was the mother of nine
children, four only survive her. Among them is
her oldest daughter, Emily, who married Prof.
Miles, now of Idaho, and Julia, who married Wil-
ford Woodruff, Jun, oldest son of the late Presi-
dent Woodruff, she died some years ago.
	The last years of her l[-]fe were sp[-]nt at Cannon-
ville, where she was an earnest worker in the
Sunday School, also secretary for the Relief
Society. She was beloved by all the sisters of the
society, and is greatly missed. She possessed the
gift of po try, and wrote many verses, most of
which have been published She was very strict
in keeping the Word of Wisdom, using neither
pork nor drinking hot drink-: she was widely
known in Southern Utah. Her nature was angelic
and especially to those that were cast down; her
religion was to her the dearest thing of her life;

[Column 2]
she retained her bright and noble mind to her
death; her memory was remarkable, also her eye-
sight, never using spectacles; she was one of the
most remarkable of women; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, and her light
will shine before her children both in time and
eternity. Her genial disposition won for her the
love of all with whom she was associated; God
grant that all may strive to emulate her.
				LETITIA M. SPENCER.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Almighty in His unbounded and
infinite wisdom has s[-]en fit to take from our midst
our beloved sster, Amanda Stowell Butler, who
was Pres[-]dent of the Trenton Relief Society, for
twelve years, from July, 1894, until February,
1905, when she was honorably released on account
of the sickness which ended in her death; and
	Whereas, she has ever been a faithful worker in
the Lord’s vineyard, a minister to the poor, the
needy and the suffering, now, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers of the Trenton
Relief Society of the Benson Stake of Zion do ex-
tend to the family our sincere sympathy, and
pray that they will follow and emulate the ex-
ample of their noble and beloved one; and be it
further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
recorded in the Trenton Relief Society Record,
and that a copy also be sent to each member of
the family.
	Mary B. Bingham. Margaret Benson, Mary Ann
Rawlins, Presidency of the Trenton Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Louise Eddins Hales, wife of our esteemed
and veteran citizen George Hales, departed this
life on Tuesday, April 17, of general debility and
old age. She was born at Cradley, Herefordshire,
England, June 1st, 1834, arriving at Nauvoo the
same year. Here the family remained until the
exodus from that city in 1846. They remained in
Florence, Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they proceeded on their journey,
reaching Salt Lake the same year.
	Mrs. Hales was married to George Hales about
1852, since which time she has been a resident of
Beaver. Sister Hales has endured many trials
and priv[-]tious since the early settlement of Utah,
and has ever remained true to the faith she
espoused; she was a kind and loving wife, a de-
voted mother and a good citizen. She was the
mother of eleven children, five of whom survive
her, she has twenty-four grandchildren and six
great grandchildren living.
	Funeral services were held in the L. D. S.
chapel, Thursday 19th inst. at which consoling re-
marks eulogistic of the life and character of the
deceased were made by Elders John Lang, George
Pace and R Maeser.—Beaver Weekly Press.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Annie
M. Rouche by the Relief Society of the Melville
Ward
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our beloved sis-
ter. and
	Whereas, the members of this association do
feel a personal loss in the death of our beloved
secretary, Annie M. Rouche, and regret that she
should be called home so soon.
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and as beau-
tiful as was her living, as she honored God, hon-
ored His holy priesthood, and so honored herself
and enjoyed to the fullest degree the spirit of her
ca ling, so frail, and yet so powerful in defence
of right, therefore be it
	Resolved that we strive to emulate her unwaver-
ing faith, her fidelity to purity and truth and her
devoti n o her home and religious duties and her
humi ity and respect and obedience to proper
au hority.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympa-
thy and love to the bereft husband and children
and all other dear ones and sincerely pray our
Heavenly Father that He will fill their wounded
souls with the comforting influence of His Holy
Spirit that they may realize that she has only
gone before to enjoy the rest and reward of a
well sp[-]nt life That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the esteemed husband one to be sent
to the son “Les” who is fulfilling a mission in
New Zealand, one to the Womans Exponent and
one to be placed on our record.
	One less at home The charmed circle broken.
A dear face missed day by day from its accus-
tomed place. But purified and perfected by grace,
one more in heaven.
	President E. A. Farr, Counselors A. P. Ander-
son and M. A. Anderson, Assistant Secretary
Olive Scott.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		SEPTEMBER, 1906


[Column 1]

THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE.
	These are days of travel; journeying
to and fro, and seeking new places, new
faces, new amusements, and in fact al-
most anything in the way of diversity.
There seems to be no longer any real
tranquility or restfulness. Activity at the
present time is the attitude of the world
and its inhabitants. The world moves,
we are quite sure of that, and even
the earth itself is not quiet, as we have
abundant testimony of late, "earthquakes
in divers places," and volcanoes are a part
of the incesant activity that is apparent
in this war of elements that is being
waged here below, and that is increasing
a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty
prevailing in the world, and especially
with those of little or no positive faith.
	The old-fashioned homes exist no lon-
ger; one would imagine houses were
not built for people to live in permanent-
ly; at any rate, not from generation to
generation, an abiding place for the chil-
dren to inherit. Traveling here and
there, shutting up the house and going
abroad, is one of the fashions, and one
might say, in many instances one of the
follies of the age.
	This year particularly, people have
gone away on summer vacations, more
than ever before in this part of the world;
and judging by the number of tourists
and strangers that come within the
gates of this city, it is so elsewhere. Uni-
versal commotion prevails, and this
state of things is not conducive to health
or comfort; at any rate not to "all the
comforts of a home." To what does this
tend, and how has it been brought about?
These are problems that present them-
selves to the thoughtful individual. Pos-
sibly it is due to the great increase of
wealth through mines and commercial
values.
	Deceive ourselves as we may, these
conditions are not good for the rising
generation. It is not a healthy atmos-
phere to raise children in; and if our chil-
dren are not physically and morally
strong, what then? What will avail the
accumulation of wealth. There are many
causes for all these changes in the way
of living, and doubtless many forces
working unseen that one is not aware of,
as these are days of "new thought" and
higher living. Simplicity has gone out of
fashion and real, homely, home-making is
almost a lost art in the present day. Ev-
erybody travels we hear flippantly stated,

[Column 2]

as though it was the most common-place
thing imaginable. But there must be
money to travel with, if one goes here
and there, and somebody sacrifices un-
doubtedly to procure this money so lav-
ishly expended.
	Every man has not made a fortune in 
mines, or even in business, and although
things cost less than formerly, they are
not as substantially made, neither do
they last as long or wear as well. We
will agree, most of us at any rate, that
this is an extravagant age, and the ten-
dency in that direction is startling, to say
the least,
	Too much of this sort of thing tends to
ruin. The mad race for pleasure in the
way of amusements, such as theatres,
operas, and worst of all, the various
"sports" that were frowned down wholly
by our progenitors, not so many hundred
years ago, are held to be respectable by
the general public. If this were even so
(which the writer does not countenance
or think it in the interest of morality), the
company that young people are thrown
among in such places has an evil effect,
the contagion is in the very atmosphere
and surroundings of the places where
these "fast people" congregate who in-
dulge in what may well be termed "games
of chance;" although many respectable,
moral and educated people do coun-
tenance them, and at any rate speak
lightly of the matter, if they do not par-
ticipate in them.
	The season's pleasure grounds and re-
sorts have been overwhelmingly crowded
this year, and the effect upon the young
people especially, cannot be uplifting, so
much hilarity and in many instances up-
roariousness is injurious to both body and 
soul.
	Surely Latter-day Saints will use their
utmost influence to keep their children
from such extremes of gaiety and fashion.
As a people, the Latter-day Saints have
always been moderate. Moderation in
dress and in living has been one of the
virtues with which they are accredited,
even by their enemies.
	Home-making and colonizing, subdu-
ing the waste places is a part of the mis-
sion assigned them, and one which the
fathers and mothers of the present gen-
eration have been faithful in accomplish-
ing. It is to be hoped that owning one's
own home will still be the ambition of our
children. The scriptures deal much with
inheritances, and the pioneers in coming to
these mountain vales established homes
on a permanent basis. It has been the
laudable pride of this people to own
their homes and make them neat with
flowers and trees and furnishings, such as
tend to comfort and true happiness.
	But the custom now of building hotels,
flats and rooming houses, such as are the
fashion in very large cities where land is
expensive, seems to be growing here.
There is room enough in this great west-
ern land for all the children of Zion, to
have homes of their own and to make
them really abiding places. Children
reared even in very lowly homes invari-
ably turn to the home of childhood in
after years as the dearest spot on earth.
Home life is the haven of rest to the wea-
ry toiler; and however far one may wan-
der in search of wealth or pleasure, or on
business bent, or on missions for the Gos-
pel, instinctively the heart yearns for the 
home, be it cottage or mansion.

[Column 3]

	Above all, our sisters should encourage
home making, and use their utmost influ-
ence to keep the home sacred from all
influences that would tend to mar its sanc-
tity. It should be a house of prayer, of
peace, of unity, and all that is holy and
uplifting in spirit and in reality.


AN INTERESTING ENTERTA1NNENT.

	On Saturday evening, August 25th,
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave a few of her
friends the pleasure of listening to a ren-
dition of her travels through the Holy
Land; it was a rare occasion; but few
women could have given verbally in such
a delightful way so good a description of
the historic land over which she journeyed
together with the sea-voyage on the
Mediterranean as this speaker did, with-
out references or notes.
	The handsome parlors were softly
lighted seemingly in keeping with the
dreamy oriental style, which was quite
effective.
	After the guests had assembled, the
dining room doors were thrown open and
the hostess led the way to the table.
President Anthon H. Lund, the most
distinguished gentleman present, was
seated at the head of the table, and was
asked to pronounce the blessing.
	The table presented an elegant appear-
ance in its snow white linen, delicate
china, cut glass and silverware. The
repast was delicious and beautifully served
the hostess being assisted by her daughter
Miss May Alder. After partaking of the
sumptuous banquet, the guests repaired
to the parlors and the opening prelude to
the evening talk was that most appro-
priate hymn for such an occasion, “Bab-
ylon, etc.,” rendered with piano accom-
paniment by Mr. Charles Pike, whose
voice is specially adapted to sacred music
and the hymn was charmingly sung.
	Sister Alder’s opening remarks were in
reference to events that led up to her
taking the second voyage across the sea,
and the prophecies that had been made
with regard to her visiting Jerusalem.
She wore a soft white gown and remained
standing while giving the entire descrip-
tion, which occupied over an hour,
only resting when Mr. Pike sang. After
the speaker had gone over the country to
Jerusalem, Mr. Pike sang “The Holy
City,” and one felt almost as if one were
transported to that land of mystery and
lost delight.
	Again after the speaker had taken us
to the Mount of Olives, the city of Naz-
areth, the Sea of Galilee, and so vivid
was the description that we felt almost
as if we were ourselves wandering round
the very  places where our Savior had
travelled in his sojourn on earth, Mr. Pike
rendered sublimely, in sympathetic voice,
the one hymn above all others most in
keeping with the subject, “Galilee, O
Galilee.” To one with spirit attuned to
these lofty themes, the evening’s program
was uplifting in an unusual degree. It
was certainly an intellectual and inspiring
feast; one felt as if brought in contact
with the very scenes and associations so
graphically portrayed.
	Sister Alder invited President Lund to
speak to us, as he had also, some years
since, visited the land of Palestine, and
he gave a brief summary of a few of his
own impressions of the places he visited


mentioning some of the women associ-
ated with the scenes, coming to the well,
for instance, as the women of Biblical
fame did, to fill their earthern jars, with
water; even so they do to this day pre-
serving their ancient customs.
	It was surely an evening long to be re-
membered, and our sincere thanks are
due to the hostess who entertained us so
delightfully.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	21


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				II.

	Saturday morning, June 19, 1880, Presi-
dent John Taylor, at that time President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, met with the sisters in the
Salt Lake Stake Conference in the As-
sembly Hall, in this city, and after ad-
dressing the cengregation for a few min-
minutes, mentioned he had brought with
him the book called “The Law of the
Lord,” and requested Brother L. John
Nuttall to read from the book. Brother
Nuttall then read concerning the organi-
zation of the Relief Society in the Lodge
Room, Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
when Mrs. Emma Smith was appointed
president, and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleyeland
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney her coun-
selors.
	After Brother Nuttall had finished read-
ing as directed, President Taylor made
explanatory remarks concerning the or-
ganization and the powers and duties it
gave to women. He stated that Emma
Smith had been previously ordained to
expound the Scriptures, probably by the
Prophet Joseph himself, but he did not
know, however he (President Taylor) said
he was present at that time and was
called upon by Brother Joseph to ordain
Sisters Cleveland and Whitney, Emma’s
counselors. It was then moved and sec-
onded that President Taylor publicly ap-
point Sister Eliza R. Snow president of
all the Relief Society. President Taylor
stated that Sister Eliza had been secre-
tary of the first organization of Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and he then nominat-
ed her for president, and she was sus-
tained by the conference.
	Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors, who were then nominat-
ed by President Taylor and sustained by
the conference. Also, Sister Sarah M.
Kimball, secretary, and Sister M. Isabella
Horne, treasurer. It was then stated
that those sisters form a central organiza-
tion for all the Relief Society of all the
stakes and missions of Zion.
	At a meeting of the Senior Retrench-
ment Association held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms, Saturday, July 17, 1880,
President Taylor came according to prom-
ise previously made, and being invited to
address the sisters said, “I was not aware
until last evening of this, meeting, at least
I had forgotten it, and had arranged to
leave the city this afternoon, going north
to attend meetings at Ogden. I under-
stand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Re-
lief Society that were elected at your con-
ference held on Saturday, June 19, 1880,
at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.” Presi-
dent Taylor in his remarks repeated in
substance what he had said at the confer-
ence previously held on June 19th, and
also said, “As I stated at that time I was

[Column 2]
called upon by the Prophet Joseph and
did then ordain Sisters Whitney and
Cleveland, and blessed Sister Emma and
set her apart. I could not ordain these
sisters to anything more or to greater
powers than had been conferred upon
Sister Emma, who had previously been
ordained to expound the Scriptures, and
Joseph said at that time, that being an
elect lady had its significance, and that
the revelation was then fulfilled in Sister
Emma being thus elected to preside over
the Relief Society.”
	President Taylor set apart the Relief
Society officers as follows:
	‘‘Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my
hand upon your head in the name of
Jesus, and by the authority of the Holy
Priesthood, I set thee apart to preside
over the Relief Society in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I
confer on thee power and authority, and
ordain thee to this office that thou mayest
have power to expound the Scriptures
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity and zeal
in the interest of thy sisters. He has
blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever,and I
bless thee with all thine heart my desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all
former blessings conferred upon thee by
the Holy Priesthood, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	“Zina Diantha Young Smith, I lay my
hand upon thee in the name of Jesus and
by the authority of the Holy Priesthood,
and ordain thee to be First Counselor to
Eliza R. Snow. Honor thy calling which
is an honorable one, sustain and assist
thy president and thou shalt have joy in
thy labors; thou shalt be a wise counsel-
or; the Lord is well pleased with thee
and will sustain thee, and no man shall
deprive thee of thy blessings; thou shalt
have the gift to heal the sick, and thou
shalt be blessed in time and in eternity;
in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Elizabeth Ann Smith Whitney, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the
virtue of my office and calling in the
Holy Priesthood, I bless thee and set thee
apart to be Second Counselor to Eliza R.
Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee
and thou shalt be blessed in thine old age;
and thy name shall be honored through
all generations. Thy heart shall be filled
with peace and joy, and thou shalt be a
wise counselor in thine old age. Thou
shalt continue to be esteemed as a moth-
er in Israel, and thou shalt continue to
be blessed as thou has been; and when
thou shalt have finished thy labors, thou
shalt have a place in the celestial king-
dom of God with thine husband. Thou
shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this office and
calling, in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by
virtue of the Holy Priesthood, I set thee
apart to the office of Secretary of the
Relief Society of Zion; to record im-
portant events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a
ready writer. Seek more earnestly for
the Spirit of the Lord, and thou shalt be
blessed more than thou hast ever had
power to conceive of. As thou hast been
preserved in life, thou shalt contine to be
preserved. I seal upon thee thy former

[Column 3]
blessings, and thou shalt be honored in
time and in eternity, and have a seat in
the celestial kingdom of God, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President Taylor then said, “God bless
the Treasurer, Sister Horne, and bless
her with every blessing that her heart de-
sires in righteousness, and Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith, and God bless all the faithful
who love Israel and keep God’s com-
mandments, do this and every promise
heretofore made you shall be fulfilled,
and more than now has entered into
your hearts to conceive of.”
	The President then took his leave to
go by afternoon train to Ogden.
	As this was a most extraordinary meet-
ing it certainly should be recorded in
chronological order in connection with
other important facts.
	This was the first general organization.
It will be noticed the others were wards
and stakes, and as Sister Eliza R. Snow
expressed it there was a body but no
head.
	According to the best information ob-
tainable there were twenty stakes organiz-
ed in a Relief Society capacity when the
Central organization was effected by Pre-
sident John Taylor.
	The Eastern Arizona Stake comprised
all the branches of the Society that had
been organized in wards in that Territory
up to that date. That Stake was organiz-
ed about one week after the General So-
ciety officers were appointed.
	Cache Stake which was organized May
19, 1878, should have come in the first
Chronicle but the date was in doubt until
after the paper containing the article was
issued.
	At the Jubilee Conference of the Church
which was celebrated in April 1880 fifty
years after its organization, the women of
this Society had a conspicuous part in the
offerings made to the poor. They gavethe
wheat that they had stored in granaries
and held in reserve for emergencies, and
against a day of famine, to the farmers for
seed; it was a free-will offering pure and
simple, and the sisters were first asked to
vote separately on this question. The
brethren gave of the Church cattle one
thousand cows and five thousand sheep
to widows and the destitute, and half the
debt due to the Perpetual Emigration
Fund was also canceled. These things
made it a memorable Conference in his-
tory, not so much a time of celebrating,
but more a solemn assembly though all
rejoiced in the growth and increase of the
work of the Lord, in the first half century
after its establishment in these last days.
	On the 24th of July following this Ju-
bilee Conference there was a Jubilee ce-
lebration. This was just about a month
after the appointment of the General of-
ficers of the Relief Society, and the event
was then elaborately and appropriately
celebrated, and the Society had the pri-
vilege and pleasure of participating in the
exercises and in the grand street parade
in the City,
	A very large banner was made of home-
spun silk and handsomely embroideaed in
colors. The name of the Society and the
date of its organization, helped to make
the banner quite a historical feature. The
banner is really an expensive one and is
only displayed on great occasions. The
Relief Society at that time the represen-
tative organization of all the sisters was
notified that “A Sentiment From The


[Column 1]
Women Of Utah” was desired among the
exercises. Sister Eliza R. Snow the Presi-
dent selected Sister Emmeline B. Wells
to prepare and read the “Address” for the
women of Utah on that occasion.
	The first report statistical and financial
given of the General Society was at the
April Conference in 1881, and included
Bear Lake, Box Elder, Davis, Juab,
Kanab, Millard, Morgan, Parowan, Salt
Lake, St. George, Sevier, Summit, Tooele,
Utah, and Weber.
	Those Stakes organized that were not
reported were Beaver, Cache, Eastern
Arizona, Panguitch, Wasatch and Little
Colorado. Little Colorado had been or-
ganized since the General officers were
appointed and made twenty one in all,
only fifteen reported.
	Statistical—Total membership 12,288.
Meetings held 1,532. Average attendance,
3,884.
	Financial—On Hand in the several
wards and Stakes one year previous,cash
$3,342.21 cts. Property $24 099.23 cts.
Wheat 9 859 bushels. Reecipts during
the year, cash $3 468.31 cts. Property
$3,513 20 cts. Wheat 670 bushels.
	Disbursements—To the poor $3,468.31
cts. Emigration $210.43 cts. Temples
$1,214.11 cts. Home industries $689.97 cts.
Books $143.13 cts. Missionary $98.70 cts.
Buildings $1,617.47 cts. Indians $66.75 cts.
	Totals on hand cash, property and
wheat $36,822.34 cts.
	President George Q. Cannon passed a
high encomium on the neat and compre-
hensive report the ladies had presented
and the good of the Relief Society and felt
the work should be appreciated by the
people.
	Sandwich Islands, This mission was not
behind in organizing branches of the Re-
lief Society among the sisters in different
parts of the Islands. In a communication
received from there Sister Margaret Cluff
stated at the October Conference held at
Laie, 1879 she had been chosen to take
the Superintendency of all the branches
of the Society in these islands and that
Sisters Sarah Dean, Nellie Alexander and
Gundy Anderson and two native sisters
Kaahamie and Kealohamie were chosen
to assist her in that capacity. These sist-
ers made a tour around to the islands in
the little steamer James McKee. The two
native sisters were not able to accompany
them on account of having small children.
This organization was formed previous to
the appointment of Sister Eliza R Snow
and her assistants; during this visit they
organized in some places where there was
no Society. The Relief Society in the
Sandwich Island mission has always kept
up in complete reports of its work annu-
ally and it has been considered one of the
strongest and best in the Church.
	In a letter to the Secretary, Sarah M.
Kimball from Elder T. C. Griggs he sends
a sort of summary of the Relief Society
in the London Conference, stating there
were three branches. The White Chapel
branch organized March 7, 1879 Elizabeth
Young President, Susan Whitpen and
Susan Waterfall, Counselors, Eliza James,
Secretary.
	The North London branch organized
February 1875. President Avis Cross,
Frances Cornell and Mrs. Frankland,
Counselors, Lovina Cross, Secretary and
Angie Cross, Treasurer. 
	Lambeth branch organized January 9,
1877. President Mrs. Beeching, Emma

[Column 2]
Brown and Emily Ryan Counselors,
Nellie Armitage, Secretary, Jane Hill,
Treasurer.
	Elder Griggs wrote “I send as an item
of interest the first minutes recorded in
the White Chapel Society record; he then
states this Society was organized by Pre-
sident R. T. Burton of the London Con-
ference.
	The next Relief Society organized
abroad was in Liverpool England De
cember 29, 1879 Elder Wm. Budge, Pre-
sident of the European Mission and Elder
James L. Bunting, President of the Liver-
pool Conference were present. Mrs. E.
F. Johnson was elected President, Mrs.
Bennett and Mrs. Scott Anderson, Coun-
selors. Mary Jane Anderson Secretary.
These sisters were then set apart for their
labors. This report for the first year was
a very good one, they had held weekly
meetings, had visited all members, and
distributed tracts from house to house in
their vicinity and taken care of the sick
and poor. The report was signed by the
President and Secretary.
	The Canterbury Relief Society in the
island of New Zealand was organized in
November 1879. Elder N. H. Groesbeck
was present at the meeting reported to
the writer of this article which was signed
by Johanna Larson President and Elida
Larson, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Relief Society Nurses' Class will
open in the L. D. S. University Building
on Monday, September seventeenth Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts Instructor, Emma A.
Empey Superintendent, Phebe J. Beatie
Secretary and Treasurer. Circulars hav-
ing been sent out early this year there
should be a large attendance, for it is a
well-known fact that there are not nurses
enough to supply the demand for skilled
help.
	We have at this office “A Brief History
of the Grain Storing by the Women of
Zion” prepared by a Committee appoint-
ed by General President Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith, it is issued in pamphlet form,
and sells single copies 10 cts. or at the
rate of 12 copies for $1.00. It is a brief
resume of the entire work to date, and
contains two letters from the First Presi-
dency of the Church. We have a Primer
of the Peace Movement sent by Lucia
Ames Mead, Chairman of the Woman’s
Peace Movement in the National Council
of Women, and these Primers, and a
larger book Patriotism and the New Inter-
nationalism are sold 25 cts. for the two
or 10 cts. for the Primer, and 25 cts. for
the larger book, if sold separately.
	We are anxious to get the amount given
by the L. D. S. Relief Society in the se-
veral Stakes, and forwarded to the San
Francisco sufferers at the time of the great
calamity that befell that city, through the
earthquake and fire. The secretary would
like to have full account of all from each
Stake to report at the annual Business
meeting of the Society to be held in this
City, Monday October 1, 1906, in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, commencing at 2
p.m. Please send the report to Mrs. E.
B. Wells, General Secretary Relief So-
ciety, Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The semi-annual Conference of the L.
D. S. Relief Society will be held in the


Salt Lake Assembly hall in this city on
Thursday October 5, 1906, commencing
at 10 o’clock and at 2 p. m. as heretofore.
It is desired that each Stake be represent-
ed by one or more of its Stake officers
and that there should be a goodly attend-
ance of members of this large and flourish-
ing organization. We are hopeful of the
largest Conference that has ever been
held. A cordial invitation is always ex-
tended to those interested in womens’
organizations to come and hear the teach-
ings given at these general Conferences
of this prosperous Society that aims to
bless and elevate all connected there with,
in this and other lands.


IN MEMORIAM.

		OBITUARY AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	A most distressing calamity occurred in the fam-
ily of President W. Lunt, when the wife and
mother was summoned by the messenger of death.
Sister Lunt pave birth to a pair of twins on the
morning of July 24. Unfortunately she was on
her mountain ranch when the illness came, and
in only one short hour her spirit took its flight.
	All was done for this dear sister that could be
done under the circumstances. Her remains were
brought to town on the evening of the 24th, which
cast a gloom over the entire community, as she
was loved for her kind and gentle disposition. She
was a faithful wife, a loving mother, and a good
kind friend to all who were brought in contact
with her.
	Mrs. Catherine Gib[-]on Lunt was born Decem-
ber 13. 186[-], was the daughter of David and
Ca[-]her neGranger Gibson, She leaves a husband,
eight children, and a mother, besides a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	We, the sisters of the Cedar City Relief Society
convened and resolved:
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call her from us, that her husband has lost a
faithful wife, her children a loving mother, and
her mother a dutiful daughter.
	Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter and faithful friend and member of our Relief
Society.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and pray our Hea-
enly Father to let the comforting influence of his
Holy Sp rit lead them in the path of truth and
righteousness that they may meet their dear mo’h-
er in the great hereafter.
	Resolved, that a copy of the resolutions be
placed in the Record that one be sent to the fam-
ily, and that one be sent to the Woman's Exponent
for publication.
	AMY W. LEIGH, Sec’y Cedar City R S.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Caro-
line Skousen DeWitt, daughter of Patriarch James
N. and Mary Cecil Skousen and wife of Abel A.
De Witt, who departed this life, February 18,
1906, at Eager, Apache Co., Arizona.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His alw'se
providence has seen fit to call from our midst our
beloved sister, Caroline De Witt, secretary and
treasurer for many years of the Relief Society of
the Eager Ward in the St. John’s Stake,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death, an
able, efficient and devoted saint and au earnest
worker in our Relief Society.
	Resolved that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with her bereaved husband, children rel-
atives and friends.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and re-
gard her many virtues as worthy of imitation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record, also that copies be furnished
the bereaved family, and the Exponent for pub-
lication.
	Nettie Hunt Rencher, Selina Brown, commit-
tee.


The convention (at Copenhagen) shows
that the movement is more widespread
than most people suspect from the talk
one hears of equal suffrage, in this
country, where the movement receives
but indifferent recognition from the gen-
eral public. That it is destined to grow
everywhere seems certain.—Lancaster
(Pa.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORT.

		WAYNE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held at Loa, July 14,
1906. President Bathsheba W. Grundy
presiding. Besides the Stake officers of
the Relief Society, there were present on
the stand The Stake Presidency and Sist-
ers Ellis R. Shipp, MD. and Priscilla Smith
from General Society. After the usual
opening exercises President Grundy wel-
comed those present and told some of the
conditions of the branches in the stake.
Felt they were a noble band of sisters in
Wayne Stake and looked after the poor
and needy and were trying to do their
duty. Most of the wards had a represen-
tative present and all reported favorably.
	The Conference was addressed by Sist-
ers Shipp and Smith. Presidents Bastian,
Eckersley and Stewart and Patriarch
Blackburn, besides others of the brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Priscilla Smith spoke on the duties
of Relief Society workers. We were to
look after the needy that none might suf-
fer. We should also store our minds with
useful knowledge, and be able to teach
the principles of the Gospel. Encouraged
the sisters to take up mothers work, and
told of the great benefit it would be.
Quoted from President Smith in regard to
mothers keeping the word of wisdom, that
their children might follow their example.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp made some very
interesting and timely remarks. Said that
the Latter-day Saints had always been in
the lead. That when the Relief Society
was organized the Prophet Joseph said,
the key was turned for suffering women,
as the Relief Society was the first organ-
ization of women on the earth. Thought
we hardly appreciated our surroundings
and the gospel, that every thing good,
true and beautiful belonged to the Gospel,
and we should not forget the Giver of our
blessings. Spoke on the Word of Wisdom
and the necessity of mothers teachiug it
to their children and said that in keeping
it the Angel of death might pass them by.
Advised mothers to keep a smiling face,
and their homes would be happy always,
and love the ruling power; alluded to the
power of prayer, and of placing our trust
in our heavenly Father, and He would
sustain us in all of our trials.
	During the noon hour dinner was prep-
ared and tables set, by the sisters of the
Loa Society, in one room of the building,
for every one present at the Conference.
	The tables were loaded with the good
things of life, and all seemed to do ample
justice to the same. Good Cheer and hand
shaking, was one of the principal features,
and a splendid good time was the result.
In fact all voted it one of the best and
most successful Relief Society Conferen-
ces ever held in Wayne Stake; and all left
with a desire in their hearts to continue
in well doing, serve the Lord and keep
His commandments, that they might have 
his spirit to be with them always.
				ORILLA SHEFFIELD
								Secretary.
					Secretary.

		ENSIGN STAKE.

The Relief Society conference of En-
sign stake was held in the Eleventh ward
meeting house July 13, 1906, commencing
at 10 a.m. Pres. Margaret A. Romney
presiding. Sister Ethel Conelly organist.
After the exercises of singing and prayer,

[Column 2]
a quartette was rendered by Brothers
Maxwell and Foster and Sisters Hull and
Odell, which was a pleasing feature of the
morning session.
	After roll call and minutes, the secre-
tary read the statistical and financial re-
ports for the six months ending June 30.
Pres. Romney commented on the large
attendance and expressed her gratitude
over the accurate reports that had been
offered.
	A young ladies trio sang “One hundred
years ago.”
	The seven presidents of the wards re-
ported verbally their condition.
	The representative of the General
Board, Sister Alice Merrill Horne, re-
quested the secretary to read the report
of the San Francisco relief fund—the
amount contributed by the Ensign stake:
Cash, bedding, clothing,$451.85; one case
of tomatoes; four hundred loaves of bread.
	Sister Horne then talked about the San
Francisco calamity and Relief Society
topics.
The quartette sang, “Who are these ar-
rayed in white?”
	Counselor Minnie H. James spoke on
general Relief Society work; her remarks
were timely, practical and beautiful.
	Sister Carrie S. Platt next addressed
the conference.
	Solo, “Only remembered by what we
have done,” by Margaret C. Hull.
	Sister Rachel D. Davis and Sister Han-
nah Lapish talked for a few minutes.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Luncheon was served to all assembled
during the noon hour.
	Afternoon session opened with singing
by quartette, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	Counselor Rebecca E. Little presented
the general and local authorities of Relief
Society to be voted upon—there was no
dissenting vote.
	Sister Alice M. Horne spoke on singing,
entertainments, protection of the young
people.
	Bishop Thomas A. Williams spoke on
“Economy of work.” A beautiful solo,
“Babylon,”—Sister Elma Young.
	Pres. Joseph Wells addressed the con-
ference. Bishop Frank Platt made a few
remards.
	Brother Wm. H. Foster sang, “Provi-
dence is over all.”
	Bishop Geo. Romney eulogized Relief
Society work and expressed the gratitude
he felt towards the organization. Brother
Livingston, of the Eleventh ward, also
spoke.
	Singing, Doxology, Benediction by
Annie Kay Hardy.
		Annie Kay Hardy, secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE.

The semi-annual Conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened in the 2nd
Ward meeting house, Salt Lake City, 
June I, 1906, President Annie S. Musser
presiding.
	Commenced by prayer and the usual
opening exercises, and reading of annual
report of 1905.
	President Musser made a few opening
remarks.
	A solo was rendered by Sister Eva
James.
	Counselor Zerviah G. Eardley made a
few remarks on the Peace meeting, and
urged the sisters not to neglect the Tem-

[Column 3]
ple work and to observe order in that holy
building.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson spoke of
the Relief Society excursion to Saltair,
on July 19th, and urged all to attend.
	Sister Emily S. Richards of the general
board said that we were the next organiz-
ation to the Priesthood, and a great re-
sponsibility rested upon us. Mother is the
central figure of the home, and should
endeavor to preserve a spirit of love and
peace there at all times, and cultivate
faith; related many incidents of healing
by faith.
	Part of the branches of the stake were
reported in a prosperous condition by the
following sisters: Counselor Sarah Hilton,
1st ward; Secretary Hazel White, 2nd
ward; President Emily Weiler, 3rd ward;
and President Sarah Jane Chamberlain,
8th ward.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp of the general
board felt that we have much to be thank-
ful for, and great opportunity to do good.
	Adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing and
benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Continued by singing “Redeemer of
Israel,” etc., with customary exercises.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board; all were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Lottie P. Baxter said that she
considered the Relief Society the crown-
ing auxiliary organization of the Church;
read passages from the scriptures, and
quoted poetry, to encourage the teachers
in their labors, and referred to the unsel-
fish work of the Savior.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt that the gos-
pel was beyond price, and we should seek
to set an example to the world, and bring
a knowledge of the gospel to them. Let
us have the spirit of love, humility and
patience in our homes; draw nearer to
our children, gain their confidence in all
things, and at all times and live to do
good to others, for kind words are never
lost, and we will have joy ourselves.
	Sister Clara E. James spoke encour-
agingly to the teachers; do not lose sight
of the little things, for we may gain bless-
ings by performing them.
	Sister Emily S. Richards urged us to be
united, and harmonious in all our under-
takings and continue to progress.
	President Musser made a few closing
remarks.
	Adjourned for six months by singing
“The time is far spent,” etc.
	Benediction Sister Lizzie Woolley.
			Lizzie Robbins, Secretary.

		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Pioneer Stake Relief
Society Conference, held July 13, 1906,
in the Stake Hall. After the opening ex-
ercises, reports from the various wards
were given. President Annie W. Cannon
expressed her pleasure in meeting with
the sisters and was gratified in hearing
reports from all the wards.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth of the General Board
were present, and after all business had
been attended to, Sister Wilcox addressed
us; words of love and instruction were
conveyed and all enjoyed the Spirit of
the Lord that accompanied the words of
the speaker.


President A. W. Cannon explained
about our Mothers’ Work for the benefit
of our visitors, and made closing remarks
—meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.

	Afternoon session. President Annie W.
Cannon presiding. After the opening ex-
ercises, Sister Pettit gave a brief report
of the branches throughout the stake,and
closed her remarks with a blessing on all
Relief Society workers.
	Sister Gertrude Sampson, secretary of
the Seventh Ward Relief Society gave a
talk on “Patriotism.” Reference was
made to our people when they responded
so nobly to the calls that were made in
early days in the valley. “Our Father has
said we must serve Him with our might
mind and will, and in obeying the com-
mandments which he has given us we are
patriotic to the laws of the land.”
	Sister Farnsworth said this was her
first visit to us, and she had enjoyed
hearing the reports and also Sister Samp-
son’s talk on patriotism; referred to the
noble response made by the sisters of
Pioneer Stake when the call was made
for aid in behalf of the California suffer-
ers; was much pleased to know we were
gathering grain; urged the sisters to send
able women to the Nurses’ Class, and
hoped we would continue to sustain our
President and her counselors; prayed that
the time should come when we should
stand at the head of all women in the
world, and that we might ever be blessed
in our work. Amen.
	The officers and General Board of
the Relief Society and officers and mis-
sionaries of Pioneer Stake Relief Society
were read and unanimously sustained by
by vote. Mrs. Eva Richardson rendered
a piano solo very beautifully.
	President William McLachlan desired
the Spirit of the Lord to rest down upon
him while he addressed us.  “The work
of the priesthood is to fill missions where-
by they obtain testimonies. The sisters
may gain testimonies by their faithful
work in the Relief Society.” Urged us
to put all hatred out of our hearts, and
cultivate a feeling of love one for anoth-
er. The necessity of observing the Sab-
bath day and keeping it Holy was forcibly
told. When the Lord speaks He de-
mands our attention. Let us give it and
He will bless us.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert gave a brief
outline of her recent travels abroad; was
very proud of our young men who are in
the mission field; reminded the young
mothers that they had a great mission to
fill in properly rearing their children.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon regretted
she was unable to attend our morning
meeting but had enjoyed what she had
heard greatly; agreed with previous
speakers that great responsibility rested
on mothers; but thought quite as much
depended on fathers if they did their
duty; prayed for all who were interested
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon reminded
the sisters that on the 19th of July the
four stakes were to go to Saltair. Hoped
for a good attendance.
	Conference adjourned until December
9th, 1906; singing “Come, Come Ye
Saints;” benediction by Sister Pettit.
	CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
	Secretary.
	ONEIDA STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of
Oneida stake convened in the Academy
at Preston, Idaho, June 13, 1906, 10 a.m.,
President Louisa B. Benson presiding.
There were present of the General Board
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, of the stake board five
members. After the opening exercises
and reading of minutes, the financial and
treasurer’s report were approved. Solo,
“Not half has ever been told,” by Flor-
ence B. Jonasson.
	General and stake officers unanimously
sustained.
	Pres. Benson said this meeting was for
the officers. All the branches of the
stake present reported work as being in
good condition; Mothers’ work especially
doing much good. Franklin, Weston,
Treasureton and Glendale were not fully
organized. Preston first ward has a room
in new meeting house to meet in. Ma-
pleton built a new granary during the
year. Pres. Benson advised a review of
outline for Mothers’ work, also taking
the lessons on keeping the Sabbath day.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde spoke of
blessings obtained through Relief Society
work, also through earnest prayer, also of
the exalted calling of mothers, of the Sab-
bath day, explained that our organizations
were a blessing, but did not come before
care of children, advised the appointment
of a committee to visit and welcome new
families.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth brought greet-
ings from Pres. B. W. Smith, of the Re-
lief Society, spoke of all Gospel workers
having one aim, told of our people as-
sisting the sufferers in San Francisco.
	Pres. Benson announced that meetings
throughout the stake would be held on
the first and third Wednesdays of each
month, also advised all to buy a volume
entitled “School and Fireside,” by
Karl G. Maeser. Reported the Stake
Relief Society as being in good condition,
the board were united, supported by local
presidents and stake presidency.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	LINDA N. BENSON, Cor. sec.
	( Continued in our next issue )


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
as much as possible for your money. TRY US 
Save Your Money! 

[Column 2]
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married-
women and also children who are mino ,
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said 
interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 East Temple Street.


The Queen of Denmark granted an
hour's interview to Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt just before the meeting of the Inter-
national Woman Suffrage Alliance, which
was in session in Copenhagen during
August, and expressed her warm interest
in the movement. Judging from the press
dispatches, the convention was a great
success.			Ex.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
Stakes visited by missionaries sent from
the General Board of the Relief Society,
during the month of August, 1906.
    San Luis Stake, Monday, August 6,
Conference at Manassa, Colorado, Sis-
ters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Harriet B.
Harker. Morgan, Tuesday, August 7, in
Morgan City, conference in Stake meet-
ing house, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
    Union, Thursday, August 6,  confer-
ence at La Grande, Oregon, in Stake
meeting house, Counselor Ida S. Dusen-
berry and Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
The sisters also met with the Ward Re-
lief Society in Baker City, Oregon and in
Emmet, Idaho. 
    Bingham, Thursday, August 23, at 
Idaho Falls, Idaho, conference in the
meeting house, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
    Jordan, Monday, August 27, conference
at Riverton, in Ward meeting house,
Sisters Ellis R. Shipp and Isabel M. W.
Sears. This visit was made by invita-
tion of the Stake president, as Jordan
Stake had been visited officially in May


As was announced last week by dispatch
from Helsingfors, August 19, the Czar has
confirmed for Finland what he refused for
Russia. He has signed an act granting
universal suffrage, without distinction of 
sex, and specially permitting women to
become members of the Finnish Parlia-
ment, and to occupy any position under
Parliament from Speaker downwards.
    Madame Jorgenson, a leader of the
Finnish equal rights movement, predicts
that many women will stand as candidates
at the first general election. She says:
    "Women will support female candi-
dates until such time as all the legal dis-
abilities of women are repealed. We ex-
pect to have nine or ten women members
in the first reformed Parliament, which
will open every profession to women.
    "The army we do not want to enter and
expect no candidates for the police. But
there is no reason why we should not 
command ships. On the lakes in the far
North many women run small steamers.
    "We have met practically no opposi-
tion from men, and that in my opinion 
gives Finland a right to claim a higher
status in civilization than any other
European country.”—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 35				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1906			No. 4


CONTENTS.
Bathsheba W. Smith ........................ E. B  W.	25
The Lawn Relief Society Social............. R.S.	26
Mothers’ Work..................... Alberta, Canada	26
The Sleeping Girl.................... Maria Francis	27
Relief Society Reports—Parowan—Wasatch	27
In Memoriam..................................................	30
R.S. Reports—Mari[-] [-]a—Nebo................ 	3
	St. Joseph—Oneida................................	32
Editorial—P esident Smith’s Visit Abroad —	
	Relief Society Program — The G neral
	Conference of the Relief Soceity............	29
	Recept on—U W. P. C. ...........................	30
Visit of Missionaries.......................................	27
Poetry—Emily Well Beloved...... L. D. Alder	25
	To Sister Emily Hill Woodmansee..........
	......................................... Ruth May Fox	25
	What Might Have Been.... Ellis R. Shipp	27


EMILY WELL BELOVED.
The harp touched by a master hand
	Thrills with its melody;
The heart can understand its song—
	Divine its ectasy,
From infinite to infinite
	It soars throughout all space;
Its chords vibrating truth inspire,
	Reveals our God—our race.
The gift of song—poetic song—
	Of minstrelsy and love,
So pure and O, so delicate,
	Inherited above,
Prophetic is—and prophecy
	Reveals what is to be;
By it are life and death discerned—
	It scans futurity.
More finely strung, the instrument
	O’erwhelming is its pain,
So shall its joy be infinite,
	A fulness shall obtain.
Waft, ye soft winds the melody.
	Play on the harp strings where she lies,
For by C rist’s victory she lives,
	And sings in paradise.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


TO SISTER EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Dear sister of song, we laid thee to rest,
’Mid music and flow’rs, whilst the comforting
	guest
		From the home of the angels
		Poured forth promise and blessing
		On those who were weeping,
		Thy memory caressing,
	For the life thou hadst lived.
Blessed sister of song, so modest and sweet,
So dainty in person, so friendly to greet;
		While thy spirit was welcomed
		With joy and rejoicing,
		Thine own words, so gifted,
		Here the prophet was voicing,
	And the life thou hadst lived.
Sainted sister of song, true and faithful wert thou,
And brave as the bravest of women I trow
		In defense of thy people—
		Thy pride and thy glory;
			The foes of the kingdom
			Yet shall yield to thy story,
	In the life thou hast lived.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


[Column 1]
[photograph of Bathsheba Smith]
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	The picture presented to our readers
here is familiar to those living in Utah
and adjacent localities, but not to those
of our people afar off.
	The great organization of the women
of the Church, the Relief Society, of
which Sister Bathsheba W. Smith is
President, numbers over 35,000 members
in this and other lands, these women are
not all familiar with her face and fea-
tures, or with her respective character-
istics; and it does seem essential that
those who know of her position, stand-
ing at the head and front of this mam-
moth society, should have some knowl-
edge of her life and her magnificent quali-
fications.
	There has been a brief biographical
sketch of Sister Smith given in our col-
umns and in books written by our people,
but there are interesting things to tell of
foremost women aside from generalities
of where and when they were born, and
whom they married, and how many chil-
dren were born to them.
	To give some idea of the Relief Society
President to those who have not had the
pleasure of being closely asssociated with
her, a sort of pen picture, we had better
begin with her Virginian origin, its tend-
encies, or one might say, inherited attri-
butes. The innate pride of her birthright
is ever apparent, both in her manner
and appearance and she is conscious to this
day of its great value, and I maintain that
her home life in childhood, and home
training and environment were such, as
strengthened her powers of endurance in
all the best qualities, that fit and prepare
one to do battle vigorously with evil, and
to withstand temptation, all along life’s
highway. So we find this womanly wom-
an possessed of all the cardinal virtues
that so adorn and become the wife and
the mother in the home, and in society.
So far as it is possible I desire to bring our

[Column 2]
sisters into close proximity with her re-
markable and striking personality.
	In her young womanhood she was much
accustomed to outdoor exercise; horse-
back riding was to her an enjoyable pas-
time; and the woods and fields were fa-
miliar places of enjoyment where she
could wander freely and contemplate na-
ture’s most charming and delightful scen-
ery, drinking into her ardent soul all the
delicious sights and sounds that abound so
profusely in the beautiful Southland; the
songs of birds and the fragrance of flow-
ers and vines. The young maiden de-
veloped into a perfect figure, tall and well-
proportioned, with ease of manner and
grace of carriage, such as seems most na-
tural to the Southern type, a trifle lan-
guid when not employed in such exercise
as called forth strenuous activity. In the
home of her parents there was no rigid
restraint, but perfect freedom to do right
and live uprightly.
	The Gospel seemed natural when it
came to be preached and explained to her
family, and the lady of whom we are
writing knew the truth of the divine mes-
sage that came, as soon as she heard the
sound thereof, and was ready for baptism.
She left her home without regrets, for
she had found that which was “above all
price.” Happily she journeyed to the
the gathering place of the Church in
Missouri, but there experienced hardships
beyond comparison with anything of
which she had ever heard or read; finally
after severe struggles that taxed all her
strength of endurance, yet never waver-
ing in her faith and devotion to her reli-
gion, she arrived at “Nauvoo the beauti-
ful,” where a new life openeed up for her,
full of that true love and close compan-
ionship that surpasses all else in human
existence. She had sometime previously
met the man of her choice, the one that
in her own bosom she knew was to be of
all others, always her guiding star, but
now she was chosen, and became his wife,
united to him in marriage by the Prophet
of the Lord. The very fact of this eternal
union, the extent of which she had not
then dreamed, was happiness supreme,
beyond all comparison. Time with all
its changes in family life, through drifting
from one place to another, westward until
she reached the Rocky Mountains with all
the attendant trials and  hardships of the
journey, never blighted the loving fidelity
in her soul, though her loyalty and con-
stancy were severely tested.
	In her home all the homely domestic
arts and crafts and economies one might
say, found rightful place and practical
exercise; in addition to regular household
routine, were carding, spinning, dyeing,
weaving, cutting and making of house-
hold articles and wearing apparel. Her
early training in the far-off Virginia home
made her an adept in all these difficult
processes. Sister Bathsheba, as she is
often called by her friends, has always
dressed well, even in the days of home-
spun; she becomes her clothes, and if
possible she kept put away in her ward-
robe appparel for great occasions. In


my mind I have a picture of her in a neat
straw bonnet trimmed with white satin
ribbon, long strings tied in a bow under
the chin, and a dainty muslin dress and
lace scarf; always stately and somewhat
majestic, a woman one would be sure to
notice more that casually.
	One wonders in looking backward
to those days of early pioneer life,
how the women of that period had the
courage to face the situation, and adapt
themselves to the conditions and sur-
roundings withal, and to mingle in the
social festivities and amusements that
were part and parcel of the primitive life
in the settlement of these valleys.
	Unfortunately I have only given you a
faint glimpse of the woman, whose place
entitles her to the honor of “The Elect
Lady” in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in which she stands
pre-eminent among women.	E. B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE LAWN RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Second Ward
scored a complete success in its Progres-
sive Lunch party at Richfield recently.
The affair was held on the lawn of I. K.
Wright, which had been placed at the
disposal of the Society.
	The lawn was brilliantly lighted with
electric lights. Tables were arranged on
the lawn. Each table was laid for ten
persons. The progressive part of it con-
sisted of the lunch being served in five
courses, one at each table. At first table
the course was served and the second
course at the next table and so on until
the fifth and last one was reached. The
first ten at table were allowed ten min-
utes in which to dispose of the tempting
viands offered at this table when the din-
ner bell summoned them to move to the
second, when ten more took their places
at table number one. This continued
during the evening.
	The menu was all that could be desired.
The most delicate viands were served and
the ladies who prepared it are deserving
of all praise for the daintiness that char-
acterized it.
	The band paraded Main street to at-
tract attention to the lawn social after
which it discoursed music on the lawn
while the lunch was being served. The
mandolin and guitar club was present and
rendered several pretty selections. Jona-
than Lloyd of the local music firm had
an Edison Phonograph stationed on the
lawn and did excellent service in enter-
taining the people. In addition to the
above musical talent a splendid program
of vocal and instrumental music was ren-
dered. Prof. Wilcox rendered a violin
solo, “The Mocking Bird” with variations.
This was so well rendered that an encore
was demanded, and Mr. Wilcox respond-
ed with Schuman’s “Traumerie,” which
was also splendidly done. Miss Eva
Stewart sang a beautiful solo entitled “A
Dream,” which showed the beautiful tone
quality of her voice to perfection. Regi-
nald Brain gave as a piano solo a selec-
tion from “Faust,” which was well re-
ceived. Mrs. Lulu Peterson sang “Merri-
ly I Roam” in splendid style. Mrs Elea-
nor Heppler played “The Old Oaken
Bucket” with variations. The selections
were appreciated. Hazel Baker sang
“Adeline” very effectively with Miss

[Column 2]
Wright as accompanist. A piano solo,
“Gondolera” by Nevin, was nicely ren-
dered by Miss Sadie Seegmiller. By spe-
cial request John Hood sang “The Cat
Came Back,” and to a prolonged demand
for an encore he responded with “Didn’t
He Ramble.” Both songs suited the
audience.
	When this program was completed the
mammoth pie was brought forth. This
was made in a wash tub and each par-
ticipant for the small sum of ten cents was
allowed one piece of the pie with all that
was attached to the end of the string.
Some of the things the pie contained
caused much merriment.
	A prize had been offered for the most
graceful eater and at the close of the
evening’s enjoyment Mr. Hayes made the
announcement that Samuel Chidester had
been awarded the prize. The booby
prize went to two of Richfield’s popular
young ladies.
	The entertainment was designed to se-
cure funds for putting a new roof on Mrs.
Johnson’s cottage, the lady is a widow
and in distressed circumstances. The
receipts will fully cover the expense of
this laudable object. The Relief Society
certainly made a hit with their lawn
social.					R. S.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK
		ALBERTA STAKE.
Exercise I.—Parents, the Child’s first
	Teacher.
	Children to be taught the principles of
the Gospel, Doc. and Cov., page 250, com-
mencing at the 25th verse. Watch and
pray always, lest ye euter into tempta-
tion. III Nephi, page 518, 18-22. Teach
the child to pray, and how to pray, and
show the necessity of its being brought
up in the light and truth. Doc. and Cov.
page 251, 33; page 331, 36, 40. Show how
and when obedience, faith and repent-
ance, should be taught in the home to
bring the best results.
Exercise 2—Moral Development.
	Certain conditions are indispensable for
the protection of children from immoral
practices. Cleanliness of mind and body,
fresh air, wholesome food and healthful
exercise, constant parental watchfulness.
Good literature. Pure and elevating
home influence. Proper associates. Men-
tion some of the best books for children.
(Juvenile Instructor, Youth’s Companion,
Louisa M. Allcotts Works, St. Nicholas,
Stories of Animal and Plant Life. Show
the necessity of keeping the child’s mind
on objects of an elevating nature. Find
some references, Dr. Maeser “School and
Fireside.”
Exercise 3.—Truthfulness a Protection
	Against Other Sins.
	Truth is the rock foundation of every
good character. Truth is courageous, it
is always power. Lying is the sacrifice of
honor. Show that a child that has been
trained to speak the truth will develop
moral courage.
Exercise 4.—Keep the Sabbath Day Holy.
	Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it.
Deut. 5, 12-15. Isa. 58, 13-14. Doc. and
Cov., page 224, Sec. 68: 29. Tithes and
offerings. Malachi, chap. 3. Doc. and
Cov., Sec. 119. Teach our children the

[Column 2]
law of tithing and offerings, by example
as well as precept. Show results of so
doing.
Exercise 5.—Courage for the Duties of
	Life.
	Show the necessity of having a knowl-
edge that our course in life is in accord-
ance with the will of God, that our faith
in Him may be exercised unto life and
salvation. Show also that sacrifice is
necessary to obtain certain blessings.
Doc., and Cov. Sec. 6; Psalms, 27: 14,
31: 24; James II: 14-23.
Exercise 6.—Parents should Live the Gos-
	pel.
	How grand is the organization of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Show that the various institu
tions are for the training of the young in
religious and moral culture, and that all
should give these organizations their sup-
port and derive the benefits therefrom.
Explain why example should be coupled
with precept. Show what is expected of
the parents that the children may get a
religious training. Show that peace and
contentment will abide in the home where
families live the Gospel.
Exercise 7.
	He most lives, who thinks most, feels
the noblest, acts the best. Seek to live
above the vain and foolish things of the
world. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 121.
Study and learn. Doc. and Cov., Sec 88:
118; Prov. 1: 5, 16-21; John 6: 45.
Exercise 8.
	Show gratitude for blessings received,
and acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 59: 21; Job
1: 21; 2: 10. Whatever principle we at-
tain unto in this life, will rise with us in
the resurrection, and every blessing re-
ceived from God is through obedience to
His laws. Doc. and Cov., 138: 18 21.
Exercise 9.—Word of Wisdom.
	Given for a principle with promise. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 89: Sec. 88: 114; 1 Cor.,
13th chap.; Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 125.
Prepare exercise and give views on these
subjects.
Exercise 10.—Women’s Privileges.
	Revelation given to Emma Smith. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 25. Promises to those who
serve the Lord. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 76:
5-10.
Exercise 11.—Ethical Duties in the Home.
	No pleasure can excel the joys of a
happy home. Parents should exercise
proper control over the child. Never
punish in anger, teach the better way.
Do not always bring the children’s faults
before them, but commend their good
deeds, that their minds may build upon
goodness rather than evil. Show that
children’s rights should be respected by
their seniors and by each other. Teach
our children Loyalty to God, country, laws
and home.
Exercise 12.
	Give exercise on some woman, whose
life is recorded in the Bible.
				MARY L. WOOLF,
						President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

As down the vista of departed years
We see amid the mists of falling tears,
The many opportunities now flown,
In self reproach we sigh and vainly moan.

We think of tender words we might have said,
	Of  loving, noble deeds we might have done,
Of wayward lives to right we might have led
	Of sins we might have checked when just begun.

We know foundations strong we might have laid,
	For grander structures here we might have
		reared,
Time-lasting friendships too we might have made,
	By bonds of sacred fellowship endeared.

We might have planted too, fair rosy bowers,
	Wherein to rest in age the weary form.
And scattered on the way sweet-scented flowers,
	And plucked from wounded hearts the pieicing
		thorn

We might have soothed the weary, troubled soul,
	Implanted seeds of holy faith and trust,
Uplifted hearts to pure diviner goal—
	To reach the shrine of One forever just.

Now to our yearning souls may God reveal.
This nobler life—sublime and grand ideal;
To seek for aye, eternal righteousness.
Not all for self—but other lives to bless.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE SLEEPING GIRL. 
	I have been very much interested in 
reading in the Woman’s Exponent Vol.
X. Mrs. Hannah T. King’s account of the
“Sleeping Girl, Sarah Carter.”
	It would seem almost incredible, were 
it not that her character was so well 
known, and her veracity undoubtable. It 
is strange that her account is so incom-
plete. She makes no mention of the 
manner in which nutriment was adminis-
tered, or how the natural functions of the 
body acted, without which life for seven 
years would be a sheer impossibility.
	I have searched numerous books on the 
subject in the library and there is no rec-
ord of a case of so long duration. 
	There is a disease called by the French
“Malade du Sommal.” It may be called 
in English “Insensible sleep,” lasting for 
days, weeks or even months. I should 
think the case of Sarah Carter was some-
thing of this description, though it usually 
terminates in a convulsive seizure or
death.
	Certain it is that many have been bur-
ied alive in this state which can be easily
mistaken for death. 
	Albert Olston says: “To many it is a 
display of weakness to acknowledge that 
there is anything beyond the ken of
man’s intellectual possibilities.”
	For instance telepathy is a power but 
little understood at present. 
	Just how one mind can send a detailed 
account of incidents to another mind at a 
distance we do not know, but it will 
doubtless be revealed to future genera-
tions. 
	So with trance or what doctors prefer 
to call catalepsy. It is a suspension of 
sensation and volition. 
	The subjects are generally women of a 
highly nervous temperament, catalepsy is 
but little understood owing to the manner 
in which morbid physical and psychical 
conditions are mixed up. In all such 
cases, there is a remarkable weakness of
of mind and will. 
	Many of the recorded cases are little 
worthy of credit. 
	When of long duration it has been 
doubted if it can exist without some de-
gree of deception


They have always proved to be cases 
open to very great suspicion. 
	But it would be wrong to class them all 
under the head of pure impostures. As in 
many instances it has been acknowledged 
that food has been administered by the 
stomach pump and the patient has recov-
ered, but only to a life of hysteria and 
extreme nervous debility. But, as 
Shakespeare says: “There are more
things under heaven and earth than are 
dreamed of in our philosophy,” and
one day all will be made plain to us all.
			MARIA FRANCIS.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited by missionaries from the
General Board of the Relief Society, dur-
ing the month of September, 1906.
	St. Joseph Stake, September 7, Friday,
Conference at Thatcher, Arizona, Sisters
Sarah Jenne Cannon and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Granite Stake, Conference at the Stake
Tabernacle, September 11, Tuesday,
Sisters Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Annie Wells Cannon.
	Maricopa Stake, September 12, Wed-
nesday, Conference at Mesa City, Ariz-
ona, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
Jenne Cannon.
	Weber Stake, September 13, Thursday, 
Conference at the Relief Society Stake 
Hall, Ogden, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and
Priscilla P. Jennings.
	Juab Stake, September 14, Friday,
Conference at Nephi in Tabernacle, Sis-
ters Ellis R. Shipp and Carrie S. Thomas.
	St. George Stake, September 17, Mon-
day, at St. George Conference in Taber-
nacle, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	St. John’s Stake, Arizona, September
17, at St. John’s, Conference in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Emma S. Woodruff.
	Snowflake Stake, September 20, Thurs-
day, at Snowflake, Conference, in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	Parowan Stake, September 21, Confer-
ence at Parowan in meeting house, Sisters
Ellis R. Shipp and Phebe Young Beatie.
	Kanab Stake, September 25, Confer-
ence at Kanab, in meeting house, Sister
Margaret A. Caine. Panguitch also visit-
ed, Conference postponed indefinitely on
account of President’s illness.
	Salt Lake Stake, September 29, Satur-
day, Conference in Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Sisters Annie Wells Can-
non and Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	South Sanpete Stake visited on Sep-
tember 7, Friday, by invitation. Confer-
ence held at Ephraim, in Ephraim meet-
ing house, Sister Annie Wells Cannon.
	This Stake had been visited by appoint-
ment in May.
	Tooele stake Relief Society conference
was held in Grantsville, Thursday, Octo-
ber 18th, in the meeting house. Sisters
from General Board were Sisters Sarah
Jenne Cannon and Margaret A. Caine.
	Iosepa colony was visited Friday, Octo-
ber 19th by Sisters Cannon and Caine ac-
companied by Sister Alice R. Woolley,
president of Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. The meeting of the Relief Society
was held in Brother Waddrup’s house.
There was a full attendance of the Ha-
waiian sisters.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the Paro-
wan stake was held in the L. D. S. Tab-
ernacle in Parowan, September 21st, at
2 p. m. President M. E. Ollerton pre-
siding. Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and Ellis
R. Shipp, representing the General Board
of the Relief society. An officers’ meet-
ing followed this session, and an evening
meeting which was fairly well attended;
judging by the reports and spirit of the
conference, harmony and the spirit of
Relief Society work prevail throughout
the stake. The talks of the visiting sis-
ters were much enjoyed, though no spe-
cial instructions were given.
	The Relief Society work is progressing
and being better understood and appreci-
ated in the local organizations.
	I am in the eternal cause of truth,
		SISTER E. CRANE WATSON.
			WASATCH.
	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Wasatch Stake was held
in the Stake Tabernacle, Heber City,
June 15, 1906. Prest. Anna R. Duke pre
siding. The attendance was good. Sis-
ter Elizabeth Murdock gave the address
of welcome. Was pleased to see so many
sisters and brethren with us, etc.
	Minutes read and reports were given
showing the sisters to be doing all they
can along the Relief Society work. Sister
Elizabeth Wintoch delivered a lecture on
“The Sabbath Day Fasting and Prayer.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, one
of the General Presidency, spoke a short
time. She gave words of praise to the
sister who gave the lecture, it was so
carefully prepared and to the point. She
urged the officers to giye the sisters some-
thing to do and they will become inter-
ested. “They will love to come to meet-
ing. Love comes through service. Teach
children to do for you and they will love
you and respect you, and you will have
their confidence at all times. We should
do right, that through our actions we will
teach others to do better.”
	Song, Gladys, McMullin.
	Sister Julina L. Smith hoped the sisters
would not forget the aged and sick people;
advised them to take a little lunch along
and make sunshine in their lives. Mothers
should teach their sons to do their por-
tion in waiting upon themselves, looking
after their clothes, etc., and also spoke
upon the principle of marriage.
	Recitation, Ella Morton.
	Sister Zina W. Card felt that if we put
into practice all that had been said we
would be much better. Parents should
cultivate patience and self-control, and
then teach the children the same.
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said and hoped the sis-
ters would take it to their ward and home
and profit therefrom.
	Singing, “Come let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Patriarch Nymphas C. Mur-
dock.
	P. S.—The sisters visiting conference
had to return home on the 2:15 train,
therefore only one session was held. The
Stake officers, visitors and ward officers
were entertained at the home of Coun-
selor Lovisa Alexander, where a delicious
lunch was served by the Relief Society
officers of Heber.
			SARAH K. DUKE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
[-]ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		OCTOBER, 1906


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SMITH’S VISIT ABROAD.
	One of the noteworthy events of the
year, which we take pleasure in recording
in these columns, is the visit of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Saints in
foreign lands. It is a new departure in
the history of the Church, no other Pres-
ident while occupying that high position
has ever visited the foreign missions.
	The Saints in the countries visited
must have been overjoyed to be able to
see, and hear, and shake hands with one
so universally beloved, and one whom
they reverence, as called of God to lead
His people Israel in this important pe-
riod of time in the last dispensation.
	It is true that the President needed rest
from his arduous labors, and it is verily
true that a change is often a great benefit
to both mind and body; nevertheless, he
was undoubtedly urged by his friend,
Brother Nibley, to accompany him, as he
was anticipating going abroad with some
members of his family. Blessings on
Brother Nibley for making it pleasant
and possible for President Smith to have
this lovely sea voyage, and meet his sons
in the mission field, and the thousands
of Saints whose hearts have been glad-
dened by his presence among them.
	President Heber J. Grant, now in
charge of the European mission, would
naturally be greatly delighted and bene-
fited by the visit, and by traveling in the
Presidents’ company to the conferences
visited, and the intimate association this
labor implies.
	It will certainly be an attractive part
in the President’s life-history that he will
recall with genuine satisfaction in future
years, even if he should never visit these
countries again.
	Presumably the journey is fraught with
incidents that will result in greater im-
provements and lasting benefits to the
Church, which has now become not only
more numerous than formerly, but of
vastly greater significance in many re-
spects, in its progress and advancement
temporally as well as spiritually, not-
withstanding the opposition arrayed'
against its followers and disciples. That
the work is spreading in power and influ-
ence must be apparent to all who have
eyes to see or hearts to perceive.
	During the journey homeward the
places visited must have been exceedingly
interesting to all the party who traveled
together, but especially so to President

[Column 2]
Smith himself, as they were so closely
connected and interwoven with his own
individual life.
	The Smith cottage in Vermont, the
birthplace of the Prophet Joseph and
where stands the marble monument
erected to his memory (his uncle and the
bosom friend of the Patriarch of the
Church, his own father), and now through
his instrumentality all made beautiful in
its restoration, and a place where those
who visit may recall the scenes and mem-
ories of the past of this most wonderful
man among men. Then the grove where
the boy Joseph Smith, in his simplicity
seeking after truth, offered his first pray
er. One cannot attempt to enter into
the feelings of the man now filling the
position his uncle first occupied, while he
was standing as it were upon hallowed
ground, calling up the scene enacted
there so many years before. It must
have been an experience in the soul
such as no pen can portray. Only those
who feel most intensely the sacredness of
immortal beings could have any idea of
the sublimity, and heavenly solemnity of
such an occasion.
	Farther on he stood upon the Hill Cu-
morah, sacred as the stronghold of the
golden plates from which the Book of
Mormon was translated. Another soul-
inspiring place, full of wonderful memo-
ries, which the party also visited, was
Kirtland, Ohio, the first gathering place of
the Latter-day Saints and where the first
temple erected in this dispensation was
built by the Saints in the midst of trials
and poverty, but wherein many great man-
ifestations were given that proved the
Lord accepted the offering. Only a few
of the men and women are living today
who were eye witnesses in those gather-
ing of the Saints in that then holy tem-
ple, to testify of the power of God made
manifest on many solemn occasions when
the Saints were assembled for public wor-
ship, having come together fasting and
praying; sometimes with the Prophet Jos-
eph in their midst, and more often his
father, Joseph Smith, Sen., the first Patri-
arch in the Church; and his revered
mother, Lucy Smith, of blessed memory.
	From Kirtland to Illinois the party
wended their way, visiting the jail at
Carthage, which must have awakened a
variety of feelings and emotions inexpress-
ibly sad and replete with such memories
of the terrible tragedy that took place
there, as to be scarcely endurable by those
whose loved ones had been so cruelly as-
assinated in cold blood. We draw the
curtain upon this scene, the writer her-
self knows what a pall of blackness hung
over the city of Nauvoo, when the news
of the martyrdom came crushing like a
thunderbolt in the midst of their sorrow,
at the imprisonment of the man so be-
loved and honored.
	The visit of the party to Nauvoo was,
let us hope and believe, not only that it
was enjoyable, but profitable, and a fore-
runner of something favorable for the
Church in that once famous “City Beau-
tiful.” It is assuredly an omen for good
—could not possibly be otherwise—to
hold a conference there once again; that
fact of itself is significant.
	President Smith must have been grati-
fied with this incident, among many
others, in the visits he made here and
there to people and places of historic cel-
ebrity. The Saints everywhere, and es-

[Column 3]
pecially those who were expelled from
that city under such unaccountable cir-
cumstances, will be delighted, to know
that the spirit of the people has changed
towards those who were so persecuted in
the past, and that they would be glad to
have them come and dwell there again. 
	President Smith must have had won-
derful, and in many instances, almost
heart-rending emotions in visiting the
scenes of his early childhood—we can
scarcely say his boyhood days, for he
would only have been seven years old
when he left Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus. Tender and soulful reminis-
cences must have awakened childish rec-
ollections, as he viewed the places where
such events had transpired of which “the
half can never be told.” Words fail to
express a tithe of the story. Here and
there the historian collects and compiles
some of the most stirring episodes, but
they give only a faint idea of the reality.
	In writing this article trying to depict
some of the emotions that must have
swayed the bosom of at least one of that
party while visiting Nauvoo, on the shore
of the Mississippi, one is reminded of
Longfellow’s song “The Bridge”:

	‘And like those waters rushing
		Among the wooden piers,
	A flood of thought came o’er me,
		That filled my eyes with tears.
			*	*	*	*
	For my heart was hot and restless,
		And my lfe was full of care,
	And the burden laid upon me
		Seemed greater than I could bear.
			*	*	*	*
	Yet whenever I cross the river
		On its bridge with wooden piers, 
	Like the odor of brine from the ocean
		Comes the thought of other years. 

	And I think how many thousands
		Of care-encumbered men,
	Each bearing his burden of sorrow,
		Have crossed the bridge since then.”

	President Smith could not possibly
have refrained from thinking of the
Saints crossing the river from Nauvoo to
the Iowa side in their exit from their be-
loved homes, no doubt he remembers his
own peculiar sensations as a child and the
attendant circumstances.
	Again Longfellow:

	“This is the place. Stand still, my steed,
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past 
		The forms that once have been.”


RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM.
	For the semi-annual conference Octo-
ber 4, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
presented by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, Thursday, October 4, a. m., Pres-
dent Bathsheba W, Smith presiding.
Hymn, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Opening prayer...................................................
	.............General Sec’y Emmeline B. Wells
Hymn, “Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Greeting..............................................................
	.....General President Bathsheba W. Smiith
Response.............................................................
	............Ellen L. S. Udall of St. Johns Stake
Report..............Gen. Treas. Clarissa S. Williams
Presentation of general officers..........................
	...............................Gen. Sec’y E. B. Wells
Practical Education ............................................
	...............Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry
Soprano solo, “My Western Home.”...................
	.............................................Evan Stephens
		Lizzie Thomas Edwards.
The Subject, “The Home,” will be led by Emily
	A. Holbrook of Utah Stake.........................


“Home Amusements,”...............Emily S. Richards
“Prayer in the Home...............................................
	  .........................Arvilda H. Dixon, Big Horn
“Harmony,”.................Susan Grant of Davis Stake
“Thoughts on the Home Relations,”.......................
	............................................Prest B. W. Smith
Song, “Home Sweet Home.”..................................
	....................................Lizzie Thomas Edward
Hymn, “Lord Dismiss us,”
Prayer............................................Minnie H. James
	Afternoon, 2 p. m
Hymn, “Come, Come ye Saints.”
Prayer..........................................Dr. M. C. Roberts
Hymn, “Praise to the Man.”
“The Companionship of President John Taylor
	and the Prophet,”.............................................
	.........................Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
“The Seer”............................................John Taylor
			Prof. Charles Kent.
The subject, “Relief Society,” will be led by Gen-
	eral Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams.
“Best Methods of Disbursing Relief Society
 	Funds,” discussed by Armeda Snow Young
	of Granite Stake and Henrietta Wright of 
	Sevier.
“The Teacher”.........................................................
	.......................Celestia Young Pack of Summit
“The Member”........................Sarah Jenne Cannon
“The Missionary”................Hattie Bennion Harker
“The Meeting”.............................Carrie S. Thomas
“The Lord is Mindful of His Own”........................
............................................Mrs. H. M. Dinwoodey
Benediction, Hilda H. Larson, Jordan.
	Testimony meeting Monday, Oct. 8, place to be
announced later.
	Opening testimony............................................
		......Jane S. Richards and Julia P. M. Farns-
		worth.
	Reception to representatives from Stakes Thurs-
day evening. Place to be announced later.
Addresses..................................................................
		Julina L. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells and
		Priscilla P. Jenninge.
	Officers’ meeting, Assembly Hall, Oct. 5. 4:30
p. m.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL CONFERFNCE OF THE
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Society was held on Thursday, Octo-
ber 4, the day previous to the General
Conference of the Church; the program,
as published in this issue, was carried out;
it was a new departure from the usual
method of reports from stake officers.
The exercises were well rendered, and
the music, both instrumental and vocal,
was very fine indeed, and was inspiring
in its tendency and effect. The address
of welcome by the General President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was dignified
in tone and sentiment, and altogether
worthy of the woman and the large and
influential organization for which she
spoke so nobly and in terms of endear-
ment that touched all hearts. The re-
sponse from Sister Ella L. S. Udall, pres-
ident of St. John’s stake, was read clearly
and distinctly by Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, by request of the writer, who could
not be present in person.
			RESPONSE.
	Beloved President, Officers and Mem-
bers of the Relief Society:—
	How blessed are those today who are
privileged to sit within this sanctuary and
listen to words of welcome, counsel and
encouragement from our president and
her able corps of helpers.
	Indeed, how blessed are all of Zion’s
Relief Society workers through these
representative gatherings of our organiza-
tions. No one will gainsay that to a de-
gree all may be partakers of the spirit
and light that characterizes our semi-an-
nual conferences. Many of those present
know that the societies throughout the
Church are given new life and strength
by the reports brought from the confer-

[Column 2]
ences or given through the inspired col-
umns of our EXPONENT.
	Dear Sister Smith, though only a few
of us attend conference, there are thou-
sands whose hearts are loyal to the offic-
ers of our great organization and to the
Relief Society cause, and they are with
you in spirit today. To all these thou-
sands, were they present, you would ex-
tend a welcome, and from these thou-
sands, scattered throughout the stakes of
Zion and missions of the world comes the
response of a “God bless you and those
who are called to labor with you.’,
	It fills our hearts with joy to contem-
plate the progress our organization has
made since the Prophet Joseph “turned
the key in behalf of woman. ”We marvel
at the completeness and beauty of its
workings.
	We appreciate the fact that you, dear
president, have been spared to us to testi-
fy of the divinity of the mission of our
beloved Prophet and the inspiration that
attended him in organizing and instruct-
ing our sisters of the first Relief Society,
of which you were a member and the only
one still with us.
	We are thankful for the inspiration and
strength given our work by President
Joseph F. Smith and his associates. We
are thankful for the faithful labors during
these many years of our Secretary, dear
Aunt Emmeline Wells and all the mem-
bers of the General Board. We are
thankful for the visits of the sisters who
travel throughout the various stakes, giv-
ing counsel and sympathy and encourag-
ing the Saints to renewed efforts in their
labors.
	As a band of sisters who come to Salt
Lake from time to time to attend our
conferences, we wish to express our ap-
preciation to the presiding officers for
their efforts to make our visits pleasant
and profitable. We feel it a blessed
privilege in the receptions tendered, to
mingle spiritually and socially with our
leaders in this great Latter-day work. We
cherish the memories thus afforded us.
	Though coming from points far distant,
with many of us to come to Salt Lake is
to return to childhood’s home, “that dear-
est spot on earth.” How tender the recol-
lections these visits call up—the ties of
home and parents, of friends, and of the
noble men and women ordained to lay
the foundations of our prosperous com-
monwealth. We miss them, yet we re-
joice in meeting those who remain.
	With the ecstacy of youth we look up-
on the familiar and historic landmarks,
the lofty mountains and the crystal
streams. With subdued emotions we
visit the “silent city,” where are resting
loved ones gone before.
	From all of these we turn our eves up-
on the Temple, whose majestic spires first
greet us as we enter the City. Our hearts
overflow with gratitude as we gaze upon
this House of the Lord and ponder over
the opportunities for which it is symbolic.
What a splendid close to our stay in your
midst is the spending of a few days with-
in its sacred walls, attending to ordinan-
ces for our dead, and receiving renewed
faith and courage for the work assigned
us in our Father’s vineyard.
	Ever praying for the success of Zion
and the Relief Society thereof,
	Your sister in the cause of Truth,
				E. L. S. UDALL.
	St. John’s, Arizona.

[Column 3]
	Practical Education by Counselor Ida
Smoot Dusenbery was admirably treated
and illustrated with story-telling, in her
characteristically happy manner. Sister
Emily A. Holbrook, who introduced the
“Home,” made a brilliant setting of the
subject, followed by Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards on Amusements, giving some pretty
ideas of making home pretty and attrac-
tive by devising simple methods of enter-
tainment, celebrating birthdays of the lit-
tle folks, and referred to celebrating one
ninetieth anniversary in her own home.
Prayer in the home was the subject giyen to
Sister Avilda H. Dixon, who could not come
to the conference, but Sister Belva Ses-
sions took the subject and in her remarks,
mentioned Apostle Woodruff’s promise to
her husband, which was this: “I promise
you in the name of the Lord that if you
will read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn and have prayers in your home
daily, your children will never disgrace
you, and teach this to the people.” Sis-
ter Susan Grant spoke on “Harmony in
the Home,” referred to the Holy Spirit as
essential in producing harmony, thought
we should always keep the channel of
communication open between us and our
Heavenly Father by prayer.
	President B. W. Smith said she ought
to feel very proud and say a great deal,
but felt she would like some one else, and
called upon Sister Ruth M. Fox, the rep-
resentative of the Y. L. M. I. A., who
was on the stand and who spoke of our
boys and girls, referring to the Primary
Associations and Religion Classes and al-
luded to one woman in a railroad town
who gathered the little children round
about in her home at 8 o’clock in the
morning and gave them a religious lesson.
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
“Home, Sweet Home” very sweetly,
which was a fitting refrain to close with.
	At the afternoon session, after the
opening exercises, Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde spoke upon the “Companion-
ship of President John Taylor and the
Prophet,” a subject fraught with the deep-
est interest. Sister Hyde could barely
touch a few important points in the time,
but she spoke with great depth of feeling
and earnestness and with great emotion,
and certainly had the sympathy of the en-
tire audience, who appreciated the effort
it must be, to give even so brief a sketch
of such a vast and comprehensive sub-
ject.
	Prof. Charles Kent sang “The Seer,”
with so much power and enthusiasm as
to bring all hearts into sympathetic har-
mony with the music.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams introduced
“The Relief Society,” giving in its largest
sense its magnitude and importance, and
her own ideals and idealism concerning
its present and future growth and pro-
gress. Mentioned how marvelous the
past of the society had been, and made
some definite statements of earnest ef-
forts that had come under her own ob-
servation. Sister Williams was followed
by those whose names are on the pro-
gram who each treated the subject as-
signed to her in a helpful and most kind-
ly manner, giving personal knowledge and
observation of practical methods and
ideas of helpfulness that had been suc-
cessfully carried out resulting in timely
aid and benefit.
	At the close of these exercises Prof.
McClellan rendered a magnificent solo on


[Column 1]
the organ which was greatly appreciated.
	At the close of the afternoon session
of the conference the president gave some
special words of blessing, which were
read by Sister Rebecca E. Little. 
	Sung, Doxology. Benediction.

			RECEPTION.
	Thursday evening a reception was given
at the Bee Hive House to the Relief
Society Stake and Mission Presidents or
their representatives by the General
Officers’ Board, and Missionaries of the
Society. It was intended to be very in-
formal, but a spirit of good fellowship
and freedom pervaded the gathering, and
it is hoped a closer bond of unity might
thus be formed and all become better ac-
quainted with each other.
	The spacious and elegant rooms were
beautifully decorated, with lovely flow-
ers and autumn leaves and presented an
artistic appearance.
	Sister Julina L. Smith as hostess of the
historic mansion gave the guests a most
cordial welcome, in the kindliest manner
after which we were honored by the presi-
dent in person.
	President Joseph F. Smith came into
the parlors and after shaking hands and
greeting the sisters he was asked to make
a few remarks, he said, “that he was
pleased to welcome them to this histo[-]ic
house, the thought of which called up
many memories of great occasions and
great people. He felt great honor for
the Relief Society workers, and recog-
nized the importance of the work.  The
Relief Society being the first auxiliary
organization of the Church, and organ-
ized by the Prophet Joseph himself, in
connection with Brothers Willard Rich-
ards and John Taylor, both of whom he
felt happy to say were represented here
tonight and he trusted President Young’s
descendants were also represented in this
work.
	In the day when the Relief Society was
organized, a few who are here tonight
were in the bloom of girlhood, now their
heads are frosted over, and he felt for
them the greatest veneration and respect
and he claimed they were entitled to the
love and respect of all their associates
and hoped they would have it henceforth
and forever.”
	The president further said, “We are
all engaged in a great work and the Lord
has blessed and strengthened it, and the
more it has been besieged and beset, the
broader and stronger it has become and
will become, and he said that he believed
no set of women realized this more than
the Relief Sooiety. He trusted that we
would have a time of profit and inspira-
tion in our coming together. Aunt Bath-
sheba was with us, and Sister Emmeline
Wells, and Sister Jennings and their as-
sociates, and were prepared to welcome
you all. Peace be with you, and may all
be well with you. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith made a
brief address and the sisters, assisted by
the musicians present accompanying them
sang by suggestion of the President, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister Julina L. Smith made a brief
opening address and the musicians, Prof.
Clive on the violin and his gifted son,
Clifford, on the piano, rendered sweet
music that was very refreshing and pleas-
ing.

[Column 2]
	President Edwin D. Woolley of Kanab
Stake was invited to speak and responded
upon the subject uppermost in the minds
of those present. There was more instru-
mental music and Sister Margaret C.
Hull sang a solo in her usual happy style
	Sister Priscilla Jennings whose name
had been published for an address at
at the reception spoke a few moments
upon the present situation and referred
to the San Francisco disaster, and her
own impressions when in the midst of
the calamity.
	An instrumental piece thrillingly played
by Master Clifford Clive, accompanied bv
his father on the violin was rendered and
then “Count your many blessings” was
sung, Sister Margaret C. Hull leading.
	Sister E. B. Wells, was called and
while she was speaking Brother Stephens
and members of the Tabernacle choir
serenaded President Smith singing three
pieces accompanied by three cheers for
President Jos. F. Smith, who was how-
ever absent at the Richard’s reunion.
Sister Wells resumed speaking and at the
close of her remarks Prof. Clive gave a
violin solo that was exquisitely fine. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams was the next
speaker and was followed by Counselor
Ida S. Dusenberry, after which Brother
Mortenson, who was present from San-
ford, Colorado, pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	The exercises were informal and under
the supervision of President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sister Annie Wells Cannon by
her direction calling the numbers.
	The reception though informal was
very enjoyable and the music was excel-
lent.  A vote of thanks was tendered the
musicians, and one must acknowledge it
is possible to have a feast of good things
without refreshments,
	An officers’ meeting was held on Friday
October 5, at 4:30, in the Assembly Hall,
where there were nearly all the Stakes
represented. Besides the exercises of
singing and prayer, the secretary’s yearly
report of the work of the General Society
was read, and the General Officers Board
of Directors and missionaries sustained by
vote.
	Conference meetings closed with a test-
imony meeting in Barratt Hall on Mon-
day, October 8, commencing at 10:30,
President Bathsheba W. Smith Presiding.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.
	Sept. 24, the Utah Woman’s Press Club
met at the house of Mrs. Maria Francis.
	The subject which occupied the evening
was the Life and Poems of Mrs. Emily H-
Woodmansee. Several of her poems
were read among which were “Offences,
Versus, Truth,” “Faith and Works,”
“The Pioneer Mothers,” etc.
	Many of the members were personally
acquainted with her and spoke of the
beautiful character of the poetess in the
days of pioneer sufferings, of her cheerful-
ness and sweet influence, of her tact and
ability in the business of real estate, and
of her wonderful success and perserver-
ance, and all expressed their great love
and admiration for her.
	It was a most enjoyable evening and
the only regret expressed was that she
was not present owing to illness which
was deeply lamented.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Annie Lonie Mahoney, who departed this life
Sept, 14, 1906.
	Sister Mahoney was born in Coalville, Summit
Co., Utah, April 8, 1869. She was the eldest of
the eight children of George V. and Ada I. Phip-
pen Brim, and the first to be claimed by death
which was caused by a severe attack of typhoid
fever She was born of Latter-day Saint
parents and her mother has been presi-
dent of the Albion Ward Relief Society ever since
its organization twenty-four years ago. Sister
Mahoney had previously held the position of as-
sistant secretary and had been treasurer of this
society the last five years of her life.
	She was married at the age of eighteen to Wil-
liam Mahoney, was the mother of eight children,
the youngest a babe of seven months, all remain to
mourn her loss.
	The funeral took place Sunday, Sept. 16, 1906,
conducted by Bishop Thomas E. Harper, The
choir sang appropriate hymns and the speakers
were as follows. Elder William T. Harper, of the
Cassia Stake Presidency; Patriarch Franklin T.
Prim, uncle of the deceased and Bishop Thomas.
E. Harper.
	Each paid beautiful tributes to her life and
cheerful disposition.
	The lovely white casket which held all that was
mortal of our beloved sister, was covered with
rare flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.
The ward meeting house was filled to overflowing
and many carriages followed the remains to their
last resting place.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His infin-
ite wisdom seen fit to remove our beloved sister
from our midst, one who has been to all an exam-
ple of patience and cheerfulness, also a devoted
wife and loving mother,
	Therefore, be it resolved by the sisters of the
Albion Relief Society, that we tender our sym-
pathy unto the bereaved family, parents and rela-
tives, and while we feel deeply the loss, we know
that she died as she had lived, in the hope of a
glorious resurrection
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the rec-
ord of the society and sent to the Exponent for
publication.
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the
Relief Society, October 9, 1906.
					IDA I. BRIM, Pres.,
					EMMA L. PHIPPEN, Sec.

	To the memory of Amelia J, Hansen who de-
parted this life August 29th, 1906.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His infin-
ite wisdom, called from our midst our beloved
sister snd colaborer, Amelia J. Hansen, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with
her, and the faithful discharge of her duties in this
society makes it eminently befitting that we re-
cord our appreciation of her—and feel comforted
in the assurance that if worthy we will meet and
enjoy her society again.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy, and pray God that His comfort-
ing influence may be with them, and lead their
hearts to acknowledge His goodness even in their
sore bereavement.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Twenty-first Ward
Relief Society, that we mourn our loss and that
we appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set us to follow. Be it further—
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family of the deceased, be placed
on the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the Exponent and our local paper for publicatien.
		Gone to a peaceful, happy rest.
			Free from life’s grief and pain,
		Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
			“Our loss is her infinite gain.”
	Eliza Barton, Frances S. Castleton, Mary
Woolley. In behalf of the Twenty-first Ward
Relief Society, Salt Lake City.
God loved thy cheerful spirit, and he sent thee
	here
To lighten the cares of our earthly sphere;
Faithful thou hast been; where’er thon hast trod
The sunshine lingered; and the blessing of God.

No storm could break thy trust sincere
In the dear Father’s love that quiets fear
Of endless sleep and the Unknown.
Into a calm of hope and welcome home,


O faithful one, dwelling where angels are,—
A woman, sister, mother,—joy is thine afar!
Working for thy neighbor thy soul divine has
	grown,
God loved thy cheerful spirit and he has called
	thee home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Sarah Thompson Patterson, president of
Relief Society of Bloomington, departed this life
August 12th, 1906. She was born March 8th, 1867.
Appointed teacher in Relief Society Dec. 4, 1890,
was chosen second counselor December 3rd, 1891.
Elected president February 6th, 1897, which posi-
tion she held until her death. She was a sweet
pure, womanly woman; she leaves a loving hus-
band and six daughters, the oldest one married
and the youngest, one month old. She was ever
willing to listen to the instructions of those who
presided over her, and was always ready to labor
for the welfare of others.
	Her example was worthy of emulation. May
she rest in peace and be permitted to receive her
children as faithful followers of the truth when
their labors on earth are done. She is held in 
reverence in the memory of all with whom she
was acquainted.
			MARGARET HADDOCK.
	In behalf of committee.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Morning session of Relief Society stake
conference held in the stake Tabernacle,
September 12th, 1906. Counselor So-
phronia Stuart presiding.
	Visiting sisters were Emma S. Wood-
ruff and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, from Salt Lake City. The Stake
Presidency, Prest. John T. Lasuerer and
Counselors, Bishops and several of our
local brethren were present. Opened by
singing and prayer. The roll showed 17
officers and 64 members with several visit-
ors in attendance. Minutes were read for
reference. Reports of the four wards
represented was that one-third of those
enrolled attended. Lectures and ques-
tions on Mothers’ work were followed out.
Lectures from books Doctrine and Cove-
nants, Book of Mormon and Bible, one
or the other, were given in each testi-
mony meeting with good results. Teach-
ers were active as a rule, and much chari-
ty work was done by each ward.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said our re-
ports were much the same as other places
she visited. Among our other duties was
the saving of souls, teaching our children
to be honest, truthful and prayerful; also
to pay tithing; cleanliness and making the
home pleasant and orderly that our child-
ren might be encouraged to stay at home. 
The saving of wheat was also alluded to. 
	Stake President John T. Lasuerer said
he had enjoyed the conference. He
knew the sisters could bless and help
those who were weak in the faith, and
felt to bless the sisters who had traveled
so far to visit us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said their work
was among the sisters. We must use
judgment and wisdom in choosing teach-
ers in the society, there is so much good
they can do. We should sustain the of-
ficers in the work, and the taking of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT was referred to, as
an essential thing in Relief Society work. 
	Stake Counselor Isaac Dana felt an in-
terest in the work of the sisters, said let
us have faith to attend our meetings. 
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. with singing and
benediction by Counselor Frank T. Pome-
roy.


[Column 2]
Afternoon session—Counselor Sophro-
nia Stuart presiding. Opened with the
usual exercises. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon bore her testi-
mony to the beauties of the Gospel. Said
they had come to take back a report of
this stake Relief Society, temporally and
spiritually. Read a few paragraphs from
a sermon of President Joseph F. Smith
concerning the Relief Society. 
	Sister P. C. Matox felt to take an inter-
est in the work. 
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we
should be thankful for everything the
Lord blesses us with. We have in this
Church fifty-five stakes and several
missions. 
	Brother Joseph Stuart spoke of the
growth of the stakes in Zion. 
	Counselor Frank T. Pomeroy said he
was led to contemplate how much we owe
to the mothers in Israel, “for the hand
that rocks the cradle rules the world.”
The responsibility was great in Relief
Society work to comfort and help the
needy.”
	Counselor Sophronia Stuart made clos-
ing remarks and said an officers’ meeting
would be held at the close of this confer-
ence.
	Adjourned by singing, “Come, Come
Ye Saints.” Benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Pomeroy.
			ANNA E. FULLER,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Morning session—Quartarly conference
Nebo Stake held July 20th, 1906, at Pay-
son second ward meeting house, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. 
	Roll called showed an attendance of
144 officers and members present. 
	President Dixon gave a brief report of
the stake, reported all wards visited once
since last conference; found all doing
well, spoke of storing wheat; 1,021 mem-
bers in stake. 
	Sister Caroline L. Holt of Spanish Fork
first ward gave report of her ward. Sis-
ter Mary L. Zabiska reported Eureka
ward. Mary A. Bradford reported Span-
ish Fork second ward. 
	Song by Sisters Nellie and Rose Pat-
ten, title “Sweet Vision of Childhood.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the Gen-
eral Society said she was pleased with re-
ports, our Father in heaven had a day
for everything, spoke of the Nebo stake
report, was pleased with the work of the
stake; sisters doing so much good work,
carrying on the same work that the Savior
did in relieving the sick and caring for the
poor, spoke of the children as the chil-
dren of God, we should not oppress them,
they are precious treasures, spoke of moth-
ers in early days gathering their children
around them and reading the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
every day; spoke of so much amuse-
ments, thought we should think of more
than the things of God, spoke of young
women working in Relief Society and
Mothers’ Class, said to think good and
do good, be pleasant when visiting the
sick, spoke of the Word of Wisdom as
being really necessary, even the people of
the world keeping it, spoke of our young
missionaries and what the world think
of them, that they think they are a fine
class of men; be charitable to those that
had made mistakes, our Heavenly Father

[Column 3]
don’t turn us off for our mistakes, “the
kingdom of God or nothing” should be
our motto, the Lord sends us trials to
purify us, we should not return evil for
good. 
	Recitation by Sister Earlensen. 
	Sister Farnsworth, a member of the
General Board, said it was her first time
to visit Payson, there had been great
progress in the Relief Society since first
organized by Joseph Smith, spoke of
the Relief work done in the San
Francisco disaster, spoke of the rights of
the sisters, told that they had all the
rights that our brethren can give them;
we must let our lights shine as true lights
in Zion.
	President Page of Nebo stake said he
was pleased to meet with the large num-
ber of sisters, it showed the good work
that was being done, glad to have the
sisters of the General Board with us,
said it is very necessary that we be
united, spoke of the Savior’s prayer in
the Garden of Gethsemane. We should
be as pillars in the Church to hold it up. 
We should not force our children, but
should use our influence to hold them to
the right. 
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session—President Dixon
presiding. Sister Farnsworth spoke about
the Nurses’ Class; said it was a fine op-
portunity for our sisters to become trained
nurses, wanted some of the girls from 
every stake to be trained nurses, said the
time was past for us to sit down and not
exert ourselves to improve, spoke of
Christ’s sermon on the mount; our chil-
dren should learn the lesson that it
teaches.
	Sister Hyde spoke, said Sister Smith
wished to be remembered to the sisters
and sent her love to all, was the only
woman living that received her endow-
ments in the days of Joseph Smith, said
that Sister Smith never was late at any
appointment, she has set the sisters a
good example. Said the Lord would al-
ways help us in our trials through life. 
Spoke of the Word of Wisdom in tak-
ing care of our bodies, and not work
too hard so that they would wear out be-
fore our spirits had done the work that
they were sent here to do; keep the
faith and cling to the iron rod. 
	Recitation, Sister Annie Tanner, “The
Girl Child.”
	Sister Roberts of Goshen said a mother
in Israel is a great and good name, are
we doing a mother’s part by our offspring,
do we know the responsibility that rests
upon us as fathers and mothers in Israel?
	Recitation by Sister Lavina Done. 
	President Lemmons spoke of the good
instructions we had received, that we
should put them into practice and get the
good out of them. One of the works of
the Relief Society is to take care of the
sick and the poor not only by food and
clothing, but we should help them to take
care of themselves by furnishing them
work. That if we followed the instruc-
tions of the authorities of the Church we
will never go astray. We should teach the
Gospel to our families. 
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were presented and sustained. 
	Closed by singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer, Bishop Taylor.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
			Cor. Sec, Nebo Stake.


[Column 1]
			ST. JOSEPH.
	The Relief Society officers of the St.
Joseph Stake met in the Thatcher meet-
ing house September 7, 1906, at 2 p. m.
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
The General Board was represented by
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon. After singing by the congrega-
tion prayer was offered by Patriarch John
Taylor. There was an excellent repre-
sentation from the several wards.
	President Elizabeth Layton welcomed
the visiting sisters also the congregation
in a few words of encouragement and
greeting, and signified the wish of the
visitors that presidents of wards report,
as they should like to hear how the dif-
ferent branches of the society are getting
along, as also how the officers themselves
are feeling, and called upon the presi-
dents of the Pima, Central, Clifton, Gra-
ham and Thatcher wards, who each re-
ported her organization as doing the best
they could under the circumstances in
which they were placed. Some are too
busy or indifferent to attend meetings
much, but on the whole there are enough
faithful workers to keep the Relief So-
ciety work rolling on in the several wards.
	The Pima society was reported as hav-
ing a good house of their own, carpeted
and comfortably fixed up to meet in.
	The president of the Thatcher society,
Sister Olive Kimball, said they had just
turned over to the Bishop one hundred
and one dollars and ninety-five cents to
apply on the ward meeting house, and
that they have 400 bushels of wheat on
hand.
	Sister S. J. Cannon said she had not come
to tell us anything new. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith sent her regards and best
wishes to the sisters. Approved of hav-
ing many officers and not placing two or
more responsible positions upon one per-
son. It was a good thing to get all inter-
ested, and the more that are called into
office the greater interest will be taken.
Keep your children at home; don’t let
them go away to work or for amusements.
Make home so pleasant that they and
their associates will love to be there.
	Sister Emma Woodruff said, “Unity
and respect go hand in hand. If officers
are united they will respect each other.
The duty of the teacher is not always to
furnish financial help, but words of com-
fort and encouragement are often needed.”
Spoke of order in the house, cleanliness
and economy.
	Patriarch John Taylor encouraged the
Relief Society workers to press on in the
noble work which they had begun.
	Adjourned by singing. Prayer Eliza-
beth Moody.
	The Relief Society conference met Sat-
urday, Sept. 8th, conjointly with the
quarterly conference, by the courtesy of
the Stake Presidency; the forenoon was
devoted to Relief Society work. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton conducting the
exercises. Roll call showed ten stake
and twenty-three local officers present.

[Column 2]
President Layton reported the members
of her board alive to their duties and
working in unison. Each of the branches
in the stake had been visited once since
last conference, some of them several
times.
	Reports of local presidents continued
from yesterday.
	Sister Emma Woodruff: “Judging from
reports the sisters here are doing about
as they are in the north. A ward with-
out a Relief Society is like a man without
a wife. The Relief Society is the oldest
auxiliary organization in the Church, it is
therefore the mother of the others. The
young people should be taught to respect
the aged. Boys ought to have as much
care and consideration as the girls. Strew
flowers along each other’s paths by deeds
and words of love and kindness, and do
not wait to strew them on their graves.”
Bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon thought it nec-
essary for anyone to work for a cause be-
fore they could become really interested
in it, and the more they work the greater
interest they will manifest. “It is as im-
portant to care for the grain you have on
hand as it is to collect more. ” Spoke of the
great good teachers can do, if they have
the spirit of their work. “As we are
judged from the books it is very necessary
that our records should be full and com-
plete, not to have our names enrolled and
then seldom or never attend our meet-
ings.” Read an extract from the sermon
of President Joseph F. Smith upon the
Relief Society, delivered at the last gen-
eral conference, commenting on the
same.
	Sister Woodruff wanted each Relief
Society to consider the sending of sisters
to Dr. Roberts’ class to be instructed in
obstetrics.
	Counselor Salina Phillips hoped all
would do their duty that the Relief So-
ciety might become what it was designed
it should be. Encouraged Mothers’ Work.
	Counselor Olive Kimball was thankful
for the presence of the visiting sisters.
Hoped all would practice upon what they
had heard.
	President Layton was gratified with all
that had been said and done in confer-
ence. Hoped what we had heard would
enthuse us with a renewed determination
to more fully perform our duty.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
			(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Whitney choir fur-
nished the music.
	After singing and prayer, choir sang an
anthem. Instrumental music was given by
Annie and Vera Parkinson, and much en-
joyed.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde addressed the
conference in a spirited manner, touch-
ing the following subjects: Mothers at-
tending Y.L.M.I.A.; temple work, its

[Column 3]
importance to us and to our progenitors;
the teaching of children in regard to the
Word of Wisdom; marriage, and caring
for the amusements of children, also of
gaining and retaining their confidence;
spoke on the magnitude of the Relief So-
ciety work (3500 enrolled), loving our
enemies, despising evil speaking, keeping
the Sabbath day and all the command-
ments.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of indi-
viduality, of our work, blessings of good
husbands and children, benefits of nurs-
ing classes and knowing how to care for
our bodies; spoke of the Woman’s build-
ing and what Relief Society work in-
cluded.
	Pres. Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on “Influence of Relief Society work,”
its progress, and spoke of prophecy being
fulfilled that was uttered at its organiza-
tion, how beautiful and ennobling its
mission was, advised kindness, self-sacri-
fice, and gave words of encouragement.
	Sister Hyde related her bearing of testi-
mony to two noted women in regard to
woman’s equality being recognized since
the Prophet uttered those words and
turned the key, which will place woman
side by side with man.
	Pres. Benson thanked the sisters for
their visit; advised the local officers to
pray for wisdom.
	Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by
Bishop H. Geddes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
		DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
		LADIES’ SPECIALIST
			TEACHER OF
		Obstetrics and Nursing
ROOM 417 TEMPLETON BUILDING
Phone 4372y		-	-	Salt Lake City


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	“Twelve thousand little ones, ranging in
age from nine to fourteen years are work-
ing in the coal-breakers of the anthracite
field. Would this be allowed if the wo-
men of the United States had a vote.”
	“Baroness Alexandra Gripenburg has
been nominated for the Finnish Parlia-
ment. Under the new constitution of
Finland, women not only have the full
ballot, but are eligible for all offices.”
	“Mlle. Brustlein, the daughter of a Swiss
deputy, took her seat on the magistrate’s
bench at Zurich, on October 5, and in
company with her men colleagues tried
several cases, This is the first time a
woman has sat on the bench in Switzer-
land.”
	Dr, Elizabeth Blackwell, the earliest
woman physician, sailed from Boston for
Liverpool on the Saxonia on October 10. 
She is now nearly 86, and is still in good
health.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1906					No. 5


CONTENTS.
A Trip to England..............................................	33
R. S. Los Angeles, California............................	34
Notes..................................................................	34
Mystifications....................................................	35
Federal Suffrage Bill, H. R. 5360......................	37
In Memoriam.....................................................	38
Obituary.............................................................	38
Relief Society Reports—Snowflake—Taylor—
	Alpine........................................................	39
Notes and News.................................................	40
Editorial:—Thanksgiving Day—Unveiling of
	Bronze Tablet............................................	36
	A Chronicle of The Relief Society............	37
	Agnes Cross Douglass..............................	37
Poetry—Joseph Smith, the Nineteenth Century
	Prophet...............................Nellie Becroft	33
	Let Something Good be Said...................
		.................... James Whitcomb Riley	35
	Farewell............................. Ellis R. Shipp	35
	Autumn........................... Louise Coulson	35


[Column 1]
JOSEPH SMITH, THE NINETEENTH CEN-
			TURY PROPHET.

Ere earth was formed for man’s abode, our Proph-
	et Joseph, honored Seer,
Stood ’mong the great and noble ones, of heaven’s
	mighty hosts, a peer;
God, seeing all their excellence, their truth, their
	valor and their worth,
Said, “these will I my rulers make,” as they shall 
	sojourn on the earth.
As epochs, dispensations passed, these noble ones,
	by heaven decreed,
Each came, allotted part fulfilled, at time and
	place as God had need.
Joseph, reserved till latter days, a great and
	mighty work was given,
Gathering, restoring keys and powers, ere Christ
	shall reign on earth as heaven.
As gushing rivulet and stream, in swift and ever
	onward sweep,
At length are merged in ocean wave and swell the
	waters of the deep,
So dispensations merge and blend, in one sublime,
	harmonious whole,
And Joseph stands aye more than peer, as ages,
	cycles o’er him roll.

At nineteenth century’s dawn he came, this Pro-
	phet babe, from heaven sent forth,
Hfs destiny how great and grand! his mission to
	illumine earth—
Long had the world in error lain, no voice from
	God, no gospel plan—
Gross darkness brooded over all, the heavens
	were brass to fallen man.
But lo! a faint light hovered, gleamed, o’er the
	boy prophet as he grew,
And yet a youth—Father and Son, in glory burst
	through azure blue,
And Father said, “This is my Son, hear Him,” in
	everything He says,
For man has strayed and mighty work must needs
	be done in latter days.
Angels as tutors now were sent, his great work
	fitting him to do;
The Priesthood they again restored, with gifts and
	blessings old and new. 
Grandly equipped, by heaven, he rose with pow-
	er confronted all the world,
Denounced their creeds and theories, the while
	Truth’s standard he unfurled.
How Satan raged! and Joseph’s name was had
	by men “for good and ill,”
But Christ who calmed that storm at sea, said now
	to Joseph, “Peace, be still,”
And thus mid all the scoffs and jeers a cold and
	cruel world could give,
He stood majestic, facing right, and taught men
	how to righteous live.

Communication was restored, just as of old, ’twixt
	earth and heaven,
Man felt the all-awakening force, though knew he
	not from whence ’twas given,
Yet he achieved, he wrought, he soared, he
	boasted, O thou puny man!
The rapid, giant strides you’ve made were but to
	aid the gospel plan.

[Column 2]
Forgetting not his mother’s sex, for womanhood
	he turned the key;
Unfettered she arose and grasped the scope of her
	grand destiny;
O daughters all of mother Eve! O womankind
	where’er you be!
Know this: the Prophet Joseph Smith this era
	brought to you and me.
Through him was every key restored, not one
	small thing was left undone,
He lived in deeds far more than years for soon to
	him came setting sun;
But life and labors were complete, finished was
	his great work on earth,
The dead awaited his approach, so death was but
	another birth.
Then sing all ye angelic hosts! rejoice ye saints
	throughout the earth!
And celebrate as fit each year the day of his aus-
	picious birth,
Then sing ye saints of latter days and take ye up
	the sweet refrain,
Our martyred Prophet lives again and will with
	God forever reign.
Ye nations, peoples, far and near, who gaze with
	awe on what ye see,
Our nineteenth century Prophet turned the twen-
	tieth century’s wondrous key.
And yet, 'mid light and knowledge rife, destruc-
	tion spreads her sable pall
Because of greed, of lust, of wrong, God’s hand is
	writing on the wall.
					NELLIA BECROFT.


[Column 1]
		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
	Desirous of obtaining genealogy, and
needing a vacation, as we were somewhat
run down in health, my husband and I
came to the conclusion that we would
take a trip to the old country, conse-
quently we left Bingham Co., Idaho, in
May, for Salt Lake City, visiting also
Taylorsville and Provo, on the way, to
have a look at old friends. Afterwards we
boarded a Pullman car from Salt Lake on
the 27th of the month. It was very pleas-
sant traveling, as we could lie down at
night at our ease, and scarcely knew that
we were traveling. Next day was Sun-
day, and at ten a. m. we were seven hun-
dred miles from Ogden. No wonder they
call this train a flyer the way it sped
along, the pouring rain being no obstacle.
At 5:15 p. m. we were in Iowa, and at
daylight next morning in the State of
Illinois. Just as we got through break-
fast we learned that we were in Chicago.
We checked our luggage for Boston, and
very soon were in the State of Indiana,
then in Ohio, and soon we were passing
lots of oil wells and timberland.
	May 30, we changed cars at Buffalo en-
joyed some beautiful scenery; before the
day passed, we became acquainted with
two ladies who were going to Europe.
After passing Mohawk river, we were not
far from Boston.
	Arriving at Boston on the same day,
near dark, we found that one of these
ladies was going to Liverpool, and in-
tended getting in the same boat with us.
This fact seemed to please both parties.
This lady, I believe, said she was a pro-
fessional nurse, had worked in some of
the best families in Salt Lake City, was
acquainted with quite a number of our
people, said she could not have been bet-
ter treated than she had been by the
Latter-day Saints.

[Column 2]
	While at the hotel in Boston. we be-
came acquainted with three Elders. One
was Brother Smith, from Cottonwood,
the other was Brother Moench, from
Ogden, and the other was Brother Ken-
intson. We were introduced to a Sister
Neilson, from Ammon, Idaho, not far
from our home, but up to this time unac-
quainted she was going in the same
steamer, on her way to Denmark to join
her husband, who was there filling a mis-
sion.
	We got on board the vessel, “The Re-
public,” just before meal time. We were
told to select our seat, all of them being
numbered, and to keep the same seats
while on the voyage. So we “Mormons,”
as the term goes, sat together enjoying
ourselves with others who asked to be in
our party on board. Different counten-
ances bespoke of a variety of thought and
feelings, some looked sorrowful, having
just parted with their loved ones, while
others, their countenances beamed with
delight at the thoughts of the vacation
and rest they were about to realize; oth-
ers appeared fearful of getting seasick; as
I was always under the impression that
there are more passengers sick on the first
day than any other time, or later on I
asked the stewardess if it were so. She
answered in the negative; said when the
ship was right out in the ocean we feel
the motion of the vessel more, conse-
quently there were more sick about the
fourth day. Then some have their appe-
tites sharpened by the sea breeze and do
not restrain, therefore they get a little
bilious about that time.
	On the morning of the second day we
felt a little unsteady on first getting up,
but decided to eat nothing but a lemon,
and hurry on deck to get all the fresh air
obtainable, which was plenty. We even
forgot that there was anything like sea-
sickness. However, most of the passen-
gers were enjoying themselves. and soon
passing the time reading, conversing and
writing, also promenading the vessel and
some singing as they walked the deck.
	Some of our Elders commenced lend-
ing literature. Two ladies were very
much interested in the Articles of Faith,
said there was some grand reading in
those books.
	After a few days, when it became gen-
erally known that there were “Mormons”
on board, one man who was getting quite
popular called out, “Who wants to go to
Utah to join the ‘Mormons?’” When
he found, however, that this attempt at,
ridicule was not appreciated, he did not
seem to care to try it again. One of the
Scotch ladies before mentioned said to
this man. “Well, if these young men are
‘Mormons,’ their behavior is excellent. I
have been watching; they do not sit up in
the long hours of the night singing hideous
songs, under the influence of liquor, as
some are doing. If my berth were near
the dining rooms I should certainly com-
plain of some of them.”
	The fifth day out, all having recovered
and appearing well, some of the most
energetic on board, began to look around


[Column 1]
for musical and other talent for the pur-
pose of getting up a concert on the night
of the 6th, which proved quite a success,
realizing quite a sum, which went to the
fund for assisting sailors’ widows aud
orphan chileren.
	On the morning of the ninth day very
early, before daylight, a great many were
bustling about; some were rearranging
their luggage, as they were to land at
Queenstown. All were early on deck to
look at the land scenery, which was
grand. Next day all were up again extra
early. This was the tenth day, and we
were near our destination. Ten o’clock
a. m. we landed at Liverpool, and then
we realized how far we were from
home. While at the depot we were met
by two Elders, Elders Thomas and Fair-
banks, who kindly helped us with our
luggage. These two brothers were filling
a mission in Liverpool. They guided us
to a hotel called Thomas’ hotel, man-
aged by a Mrs. Hiles, a very lady-like
woman with whom I conversed a number
of times on the principles that brought us
so far from home.
	Well, we are in Liverpool now, and
this is Sunday, so away we go to hunt up
No. 10, Holly Road, to meet with a little
band of Saints who are the salt of the
earth, differing from the masses all around
them; and very likely most much mis-
understood. After the afternoon meeting
an Elder took us to a lovely park close
by, where the green grass, the flowers and
the variety of ferns reminded me of the
place of my childhood, the little Guernsey
Island. At the next meeting we were in-
troduced to Sister Price and Brother and
Sister Hughes and others.
	Leaving Liverpool next morning we
took the train to Cardiff, Wales, and
then to Llantrissant, ten miles from Car-
diff, and stopping there one day and night
we received the inspiration that we were
close to the Miskin manor and Miskin vil-
lage; this we were anxious to see, as the
Miskin family are naturally proud of this
ancient place, which is very picturesque,
situated so that it commands a lovely
view of the surrounding country. Just as
we entered the gate we met a son of the
present owner and occupant, Judge Gwil-
ym Williams, this son of his honor the
judge, politely showed us through the
house and grounds and exhibited many
curiosities, rare shrubs and trees, some of
which had been transplanted from India,
also some of the heads and horns of ani-
mals he had killed while hunting in In-
dia; he then allowed us to walk around
the gardens, and pointed out a bathing
place where the Romans used to bathe.
	After  partaking of lunch with part of
the family, the lady, who was the mother
of this young man, and evidently a church
worker, interested us in her work and
told us how much had been realized by a
church fair. I wish I remembered the
amount, but it was hundreds of pounds
they had received from a church fair that
had been held on these grounds. The
funds were to be used for erecting a
church in the near future, to be built near
by on land donated by her or the family.
This lady’s son expressed the wish and
anticipation of going to the Rocky Moun-
tain region, and we hope, when he does,
he will meet with the same courtesy and
frendliness that he showed us, and I do
not doubt for a moment but that he will.
	After this delightful time we were

[Column 2]
driven to the station and had only a few
moments to wait for the train going to
Weymouth, where we again took boat
for my native island of Guernsey, which
I had left in 1840, for Newark, New Jer-
sey, where I lived two years before I was
married, and I might add here, that at
that time the restored and complete gos-
pel was unknown to either of us.
	Now on the little Guernsey island again
and this is the 15th of June. After taking
the train (not a buss as formerly) we ar-
rived at the seaport and parish of St.
Sampson’s. We found Mr. Stranger’s
sister, who took us through the house
owned by my dear father and the house
where I was born. Opposite is the Wes-
leyan Methodist chapel and Sunday
school building, also, where I had taught
after my father had left the church of
England. This lady conversed with us
for some time, then took us to some
friends, the Dorey’s, and others; then we
took a run down to see the dear old
church where I had been christened while
in infancy. This church was built in 1111,
the inside has been renovated, but the
outside is the same as built at that an-
cient date. The few that knew my dear
father were pleased to see us, and when
asked if they remembered him, exclaimed,
“I seem to see his dear, cheerful face
now while I am speaking,” proving to us
that he was not forgotten. His remains
now lie in the cemetery of St. John, Kan-
sas, the place where we embraced the
Gospel. When my father visited my only
sister in New Jersey, she reluctantly al-
lowed him to come and see us, then old
and feeble, but as it was his great desire
to see me and spend  his last days with
us, she parted with him, but it was only
for a short time he stayed with us, as a
few weeks afterwards he had a paralytic
stroke, from which he never recovered,
liying but a short time, closing his eyes,
he again took another journey to the
great beyond, in the year 1888. He had
filled his mission, having been as a father
and mother most of the time to his moth-
erless children. Well, I must not dwell
too long on these sacred spots, so we will
wish good-bye to little Guernsey.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. LOS ANGELES, CAL.
	Yesterday was a “Red Letter Day” for
us in the Los Angeles branch, for in reor-
ganizing the Relief Society an opportuni-
ty was afforded us of showing our appre-
ciation for the labors and regard for the
sterling qualities and character of Sister
Eliza Woollacott who has been our Presi-
dent for nine and one-half years, ever
since the Relief Society was organized
here. She is in her seventy-sixth year
and of late has not been feeling adequate
to the task of presiding and attending to
the various duties of the Relief Society,
and so requested the Branch and Mission
Presidency to release her and let some-
one of younger years assume the
duties of the office she has so long and
faithfully filled. The presiding brethren
were loth to part with her services, but
met with the society yesterday when Mrs.
Woollacott was honorably released with
her Counselors, Sisters Harriet Rand and
Freda Hedberg, and the following named
sisters sustained as the Presidency of the
Los Angeles Relief Society, i. e., Margaret


Jacobson, Freda Hedberg and Isabelle
Anderson, with Lura Lorbeer secretary
and treasurer, and Jennie Riggs assistant
secretary and treasurer.
	Appropriate and feeling remarks were
made by Prest. Joseph E. Robinson and
Prest. H. C. Jacobson, each of whom
bore testimony to the integrity, generosi-
ty and faithfulness of Sister Woollacott
and how they had regarded her as the
“Mother of the Los Angeles Branch” for
her importunities with the Presidency of
the Church were largely responsible for
bringing the Elders to this city, and
her home was where the first L. D. S.
meetings were held and afterwards the
“Woollacott Hall” was tendered to the
Saints, free of charge, by one of her sons,
where we met for several years. Several
of the sisters followed in a similar vein
expressing their love for the sisters re-
leased and for the incoming officers as
well. Sister Woollacott gave us her tes-
timony and blessing as also did Sister
Jacobson, her most worthy successor.
	In the evening we met at the residence
of Prest. Jacobson where a banquet was
tendered Sister Woollacott and her Coun-
selors by the Relief Society, and some
forty sat down to the sumptuous repast
prepared by clever and loving hands. The
decorations were red and green, carna-
tions and smilax. Songs, sentiments and
recitations made a pleasant program, and
after the dinner was served, Prest. Joseph
E. Robinson, in behalf of the society,
presented Sister Woollacott with a beauti-
ful silver basin fittingly engraved and of
much beauty. Our dear sister was so
overcome with the eulogy paid her and
the beautiful present that she could not
express her feelings for grateful tears.
We will remember it long and treasure it
in our hearts as one of the occasions
when our Heavenly Father poured out
His Spirit in such abundance and sweet-
ness that our faith is renewed and our
courage built up, and we are determined
to keep pace with our more favored sis-
ters in the Wards and Stakes of Zion and
be prepared with them for the coming of
the Bridegroom.
	Nov. 22, 1906.		M. A. R.


NOTES.
	Mrs. Margaret Bottome, President of
the International order of King’s Daugh-
ters, died last week at her home in New
York City, in her 79th year. The first
circle of King’s Daughters was organized
at her house in 1886. The society now
numbers its members by hundreds of
thousands, and carries on a great variety
of benevolent work, Mrs. Bottome’s
maiden name was McDonald. She was
educated at Professor Greenleaf’s school
in Brooklyn, N. Y., where her early life
was passed and where she married the
Rev. Dr. Frank Bottome of the Meth-
odist Church. She was at one time asso-
ciate editor of the Ladies’ Home Journal.
Besides copious contributions to the relig-
ious press, she was the author of “A Sun-
shine Trip to the Orient,” “Death and
Life,” “Seven Questions after Easter”
and “Crumbs from the King’s Table.”
She was in demand as a lecturer, and for
25 years had conducted Bible talks. She
was also connected with the women’s
branch of the International Medical Mis-
sion. She leaves three sons, two of them
ministers and one a lawyer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LET SOMETHING GOOD BE SAID.
When over the fair fame of friend, or of foe
	The shadow of disgrace shall fall, instead
Of words of blame, or proof of thus and so,
	Let something good be said.
Forget not that no fellow being yet
	May fall so low, but love may lift his head;
Even the cheek of shame with tears is wet,
	If something good be said.
No generous heart may vainly turn aside
	In ways of sympathy; no soul so dead
But may awaken strong and glorified,
	If something good be said.
And so I charge you, by the thorny crown
	And by the cross on which the Savior bled,
And by your own soul’s hope of fair renown,
	Let something good be said.
				JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.


AUTUMN.
The day is dark, and dank and cold.
The eves are gathering the moss and mold.
The vines and leaves have changed to gold,
The dying year is nearly one year old.

And yet there’s cheer within my heart,
Though friends may come and friends depart,
The future brings sweet thoughts apart
Of what life holds within my heart.

Good bye, old year, no, stay, I hear
The echo of a voice so sweet, so dear,
You brought me only love and cheer,
I am loth to lot you go, kind year.

I kiss thy face, so sweet, so fair,
Most beautiful face, though ag’d with care,
And my heart goes out with thee in prayer.
May we meet again, some place, somewhere.
					LOUISE COULSON,
Salt Lake City, Utah.


AUTUMN.
The day is dark, and dank and cold.
The eves are gathering the moss and mold.
The vines and leaves have changed to gold,
The dying year is nearly one year old.

And yet there’s cheer within my heart,
Though friends may come and friends depart, 
The future brings sweet thoughts apart
Of what life holds within my heart.

Good bye, old year, no, stay, I hear
The echo of a voice so sweet, so dear,
You brought me only love and cheer,
1 am loth to lot you go, kind year.

I kiss thy face, so sweet, so fair.
Most beautiful face, though ag’d with care,
And my heart goes out with thee in prayer.
May we meet again, some place, somewhere.
					LOUISE COUSON,
Salt Lake City, Utah.


[Column 1]
		MYSTIFICATIONS.
	A thoroughly typical Scottish gentle-
woman of literary tastes was Miss Stirling
Grahame. This collateral descendant of
Claverhouse was still a young woman
when she delighted and puzzled society
in Scotland with her wonderful imperson-
ations of an old lady. Later in life she
wrote her recollections of these exploits
and made them public property, under
the name of “Mystifications.” “This en-
tertaining, curious and wonderful little
quarto” then actually recorded scenes
that took place when Sir Walter domin-
ated Scotland, England and France, and
Edinburgh was full of cultured, large-
minded, flesh-and-blood society. Lord
Jeffrey, Lord Cockburn, Lord Gillies, were
three jewels, fit to make any circle
shine far and wide. Of the women, Mrs.
Poyser might have truly said “They were
made to match the men,” and yet to bor-
row from Dr. John Brown, “as distinct in
character each from the other, as were
the men—or as is a beech from a birch, a

[Column 2]
lily from a rose.” Before such on-lookers
as these Miss Stirling-Grahame “mysti-
fied” one celebrity after another, by her
personations of Lady Pitlyal, Mrs. Mac-
Allister, Lady Catharine Howard, Mrs.
Ramsay Speldin, Mrs. Arbuthnot of Bal-
wylie. Miss Stirling-Grahame’s plan of
action was to arrive in the middle of an
evening gathering in the dress of an old
lady of a previous time. She would sus-
tain for some hours the character she per-
sonated, and make the most absurd and
eccentric statements about herself and
her family. Later in life when her own
presence was not so remarkable, the
effect of a mystification was electrical.
She actually became the old lady, and
“jest, quick retort, whimsical fancy, the
wildest nonsense, flowed from her lips
with a freedom and truth to nature which
appeared to be impossible in her own per-
sonality.” Be it remembered also that
those who were deceived by these mysti-
fications were no stranger to such devices.
Seventy years ago it was one of the favor-
ite amusements of young girls to dress
up and maintain the character of an older
woman throughout an evening. Miss Stirl-
ing Grahame’s “Mystifications” is the only
considerable record we have of such
pranks. With the “Mystifications” are
published some studies of “worthies,”
one a dog, which are full of spiritual de-
lineation. The most beautiful is “Miss
Menie Trotter,” a prose poem, which the
most superficial and callous could not
scorn.
	The charm of Miss Stirling-Grahame’s
style lies in its naturalness, its veracity,
and its lack of small-mindedness. Its wit
and humor are principally found in the
record of her own sayings. The favorite
example of her wit is her epigram on
cold, wet soil, in which she says, “It
greets a-winter and girns a summer.”
Truly Scottish humor is to be found in the
episode which she professes to recall of
one laird’s refusing to give his youngest
daughter to a suitor, telling him to “tak’
them as God had gi’en them to him, or
want.” With the exception of a trans-
lation of a French treatise on bees,
“Mystifications” was Miss Stirling-
Grahame’s sole contribution to literature.
Though her influence on literature has
been as nothing, the memory of her per-
sonality lives even yet with those who
knew her breezy, benevolent, straightfor-
ward character. Duntrune, her much
loved home, was so situated as to com-
mand both Highlands and Lowlands, and
she herself joined the poetry and wit of the
Highlander to the shrewdness and humor
of the Lowlander. Having outlived most
of the brilliant friends of her youth and
mindle-age, she died in 1877, in the
ninety-eighth year of her age.
	Of a very different type of Scotswoman
was Mrs. Oliphant. The thought of
bandying jests with Sir Walter and Lord
Jeffrey would have made Mrs. Oliphant
shake with fear, and the meetings with
Southey, Sir David Brewster and John
Wilson. which delighted Mrs. Grant,
would have had no charm for Mrs. Oli-
phant, who detested intellectualism.
Early widowed, she had to use the pen,
which had once been a pleasing play-
thing, as a tool to provide sordid bread
and butter for herself and her two boys.
Stern necessity transformed the author of
pretty promising stories into the profes-
sional book-maker, turning out her annual

[Column 3]
quota of so many thousand words. She
had perforce to produce quantity, quality
must be an accident. After long years of
increasing literary activity, Mrs. Oliphant
had still to feel the sting of the critics
whose honesty could not allow them to
praise aught save her industry. She her-
self knew well that lack of fallow times
had prevented the harvest from being
as rich as it should have been, but house-
hold expenses, school and college bills,
would not wait whilst the bread-winner
took time to produce an “Adam Bede,”
or an “Aurora Leigh.”
	Mrs. Oliphant’s fatal gift of versatility,
joined to the ever-present need to keep
things going, have been the causes which
have deprived her of a lasting reputation.
Her pen was so facile that she is said to
have offered to write a whole number of
Blackwood’s Magazine herself. To write
was as easy as to smile, and the pen
which was at ease with the glories of the
Paradiso and the intricacies of Irvingism,
could also discourse of Alphonse Daudet
and Boating on the Thames. When
Mrs. Oliphant wrote “Katie Stewart,”
specialising even in literature was not a
moral obligation; when she finished her
“Annals of a Publishing House,” the era
had arrived when he or she who special-
ises not is lost.
	Had the bread-and-butter problem not
existed, it is possible Mrs. Oliphant might
have had a high place among novel writ-
ers of the second class. With her imagi-
native works we are not concerned here,
but much of Mrs. Oliphant’s best writing
is to be found in works which are not fic-
tion. The informal series of books of
which “The Makers of Florence” and
“Royal Edniburgh” are good examples,
have much graceful literary writing in
them. They are not deep, their readers
must supplement their information by a
study of more accurate authorities, but
such parts as the opening chapters of the
“Makers of Modern Rome” are gems that
one would not give for a wilderness of
dry-as-dust facts. Mrs, Oliphant’s own
particular gift of sympathy had the happy
result of making her a successful biogra-
pher, and she had the satisfaction of mak-
ing popular the lives of such widely dif-
ferent men as Edward Irving, Laurence
Oliphant and Principal Tulloch.
	Mrs. Oliphant’s worth to the generation
which comes after her lies probably, not
in her charm as a novelist, not in her fac-
ility as a biographer, not in her weight as
an historian, not in her beauty of vision
as an expounder of the ways of the Un-
seen. but in her example to women who,
like herself, may be left with a moderate
talent as the only means of carrying on
the battle of life. The story of her own
life has more interest in it than any novel
Mrs. Oliphant wrote. The early life in
London with the shadow of coming
trouble; the removal to Italy and the
death there of the suffering husband; the
pathetic loss of every “woman child;” the
return to Edinburgh. and the kindly help
of the Blackwood family; the permanent
settlement at Windsor, and the Herculean
efforts to keep the ill-fated sons at Eton
and Oxford; the adoption of her nieces
and the care of her helpless brother; the
haven of happy holidays in her native
land and across the channel; all make up
a history with more of sorrow happiness
and trial than might be found in the log
of one who had roamed half the world.
		—English Woman’s Review.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		NOVEMBER, 1906


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
	There never has been a time when
there was greater cause for rejoicing
among this people than now. The bounti-
ful harvests of fields and orchards should
fill every soul with gratitude and praise
to Him who rules on high, who watches
over all, and pours out blessings in such
rich abundance. Not only is this goodly
land filled with earthly comforts and lux-
uries, but there are blessings of a spirit-
ual nature such as were never before en-
joyed by any people of which we have
knowledge in ancient or modern history.
The blessings of temples wherein those
who are prepared may go and minister
for their ancestry.
	Four of these sacred edifices have
been erected to the name of the Most
High, since a few poor pilgrims came
with scant provisions and belongings, to
settle these valleys: to find peace and se-
curity from their oppressors. This little
handful of people have made a record in
this region such as history has not record-
ed hitherto. The Latter-day Saints
count the blessings they have received in
temples above all earthly riches, and yet
perhaps they are not as mindful of them
as they should be.
	Our Father in heaven is merciful and
long-suffering with His people, but it is
the duty, and should be esteemed a priv-
lege and pleasure, to acknowledge His
goodness and favors in the most humble
manner every day and hour in the heart,
and in prayer and intercession to Him
who holds the “keys of the universe,”
that these great blessings may not be
taken from us, but that this people, who
have found favor with the Lord, may
live in such a way that He will continue to
acknowledge and bless them, and multi-
ply them, that they may accomplish the
work He has set His hand to perform in
these last days.
	Meantime happiness, as far as possible,
should pervade the hearts and peace
abide in the homes of the Saints, that the
Holy Spirit may be the guide at all times
of those who are partakers of such mani-
fold blessings.
	It is right and proper to set apart days
for special thanksgiving and to observe
them as such. It is good for men and
women to cease toiling for a day, even if
it is only a change. Activity is good in
any legitimate direction, and pleasant
diversion for the mind and body in mod-
eration is beneficial; and rational enjoy-

[Column 2]
ment for elderly people, as well as chil-
dren and young folks, brightens life and
exhilarates the mind; social intercourse
such as is usually promoted on these oc-
casions, when one sits down to a Thanks-
giving dinner, and the conversation is en-
livening, often produces a pleasurable,
lasting effect, as well as that of the time
being. One remembers people met at
table long afterwards, and incidents that
transpired. Such dinners are recalled oft-
times, not because of the feast of
good things, nearly as much as the good-
fellowship. or story-telling, or song-sing-
ing and music indulged in as informal
after-dinner pastimes.
	Thanksgiving in New England in the
nineteenth century was the one day
looked forward to, when all the family,
with cousins, aunts, and other relatives
and invited friends gathered; and the
most sumptuous dinner possible was
bountifully served. In those days none
of the old-fashioned families observed
Christmas, and the exchange of gifts was
for New Year’s Day—the only regular gift
day; now peeple are so profuse with gifts
that it is the other extreme.
	Thanksgiving this year finds this people
in the enjoyment of so many choice gifts
and blessings that we can scarcely count
them; but should with due reverence try
to appreciate the prosperity that has
come, and so live as to beworthy, if
possible, of a continuation of years of
prosperity in which to build up Zion, and
to use the means with which the Lord
blesses His people, that Zion may indeed
be glorious and accepted of the Lord;
and that this chosen gathering place may
be preserved when death and destruction
encompass the land.


[Column 1]
UNVEILING OF BRONZE TABLET.
	The Congregational Club of Boston,
Mass. have presented to the oldest Re-
formed Church in Holland a bronze tablet
inscribed as a memorial in recording his-
tory in artistic symbol.
	First is set forth the “seal of the Re-
formed Church of Delfshaven with the
correct topography as it was in the 16th
century with waterway, quays and haven.”
Within the encircling motto we read first
in Hebrew letters mystic consonant, and
unseen words the pre-ancient covenant
name,
			JEHOVAH.
	Then in Dutch speech the motto and
confession of faith, rendered into English.
		“The Haven of salvation Above
			with God in Zion.”
	Below this they explain “the true words
accepted by us all, and binding us every
one in unity of loyalty to a common Sa-
vior, revealer of Jehovah and of our
Father,”
		“ONE IN CHRIST.”
	Next confronting each other across
friendly space are the arms of the State
of Massachusetts, with the figure of the
Algonquin Indian, oldest inhabitant of the
Western world, and the town arms of
Delfshaven, once the port of Delft, and a
common community by itself, but now
part of Rotterdam, seventh shipping port
of the world; with its green and gold her-
rings, and wheat, emblems of agriculture
and of the fisheries. These tell the eye
how the men by the Maas won their food
from the sea as well as from the land.

[Column 2]
	Then follows the text from the Ameri-
can Book of Genesis Bradford’s testimony
to Dutch hospitality. His words bind our
hearts and our consciences to this day.
	Then the inscription giving the name
of the donors also paying honor to the
Pilgrim Fathers. “It records a fact of
history which meant one of the decisive
events of the world.”
	The Tulip Holland’s typical flower en-
graved belowin one corner and in anti-
phonal association making harmony the
Trailing Arbutus the May Flower, “which
in their new home greeted the Pilgrims
with life, beauty and perfume, after the
frosts of winter. Its glossy leaves, waxen
petals and sweet odor cheered their spirits
and touched their imaginations, while it
seemed to waft welcome.” Then follows
—“The inscription July 22, A. D. 1620.”

	The Pilgrim Fathers Began Their
		Voyage To New England.
	Obliged by their good and courteous
		entreaty 
	Which we have found in your
		country
	We and our children are bound to
		be thankful.

Governor William Bradford to the Dutch
	in Manhattan March 19, 1827.
In Token of enduring gratitude and in
Christian Brotherhood, the Boston Con-
gregational Club rear this memorial.
		JULY 1906.
This finishes the engraving of the Tablet.
	“The Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers”
was the first hymn in the exercises and
the “Star Spangled Banner” the last. The
prayer was a very appropriate and sug-
gestive one and closes with the Lord’s
prayer—Amen” and then the words
	“Let all the people say Amen”
	Praise ye the Lord
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from
everlasting to everlasting. Psalms cvi. 18.”
	This address with the picture of the
Tablet, the Delfshaven Reformed Church,
as it is to day, also the picture of those
who left Holland at that time, and their
names each one numbered, thirty four in
all, the picture of the first meeting for
public worship in North America Sunday,
January 21, 1621, all these are included
in the pamphlet issued in English and
Dutch which we have recently received
from Sister Emily Wells Grant.
	The address which is partly historical
was delivered by William Elliot Griffis
D. D. L. H. D. September 28, 1906 at the
unveiling of the tablet.
	The Pilgrim fathers and mothers who
sailed from Holland for England on that
ever memorable day. were joined by those
from London and Southampton numbering
altogether one hundred and one persons
who sailed on the single ship Mayflower
on the Atlantic leaving England in July
1620, and arriving at Plymouth Rock De-
cember 20, 1620.
	We are very grateful to Sister Grant
for sending this interesting pamphlet, and
glad to know that Boston men recognize
Holland’s magnanimity in receiving these
Pilgrim fathers and mothers, who were
the means with others equally brave and
heroic under Divine Providence in open-
ing the way to this goodly land of America,
where millions of people from many lands
have been partakers of religious freedom
and liberty accorded to all under the Con-
stitution of these United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			37


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				III.
	There was at Favorsham, Kent, Eng-
land a branch of the Relief Society or-
ganized at an early date, we have not the
positive date unfortunately, or we would
give it here but we have a notice of its
holding a semi Annual Conference on
March 21, 1881—in which it is stated much
of the time was occupied with reports, a
synopsis of which was sent to the London
Conference. The President’s name is
given, Sister Ann Cornford. This Relief
Society Conference was held in the after-
noon and at the close of the meeting a
social tea provided by the President and
her Counselors was enjoyed, and in the
evening the Relief Society held a joint
session with the priesthood of the Favors-
ham branch. This Society numbered
twenty members and they visited among
the Saints. This report is from a letter of
Elder Edward King’s who was at that
time laboring there, as was also Elder
Joseph A. Jennings.
	Auckland, New Zealand, Relief Society
was organized by Elder George Batt, De-
cember 22, 1880, Sister Isabel Lucy ap-
pointed President; Sisters Day and Fox,
Counselors; Sister Williams, Secretary;
Sister Miles, Treasurer. June 9, 1881, the
President and her Counselors left New
Zealand for Zion and Sister Hannah Cox
was elected President by unanimous vote
of the members. This Society was in a
flourishing condition in 1881, at the date
of the letter received, and much means
had been donated and earned by sewing.
Meetings were held semi-monthly.
	The first Relief Society in the Swiss and
German Mission was in Berne Switzer-
land by Elder P. F. Goss, June 30, 1882.
At the time of the visit of Sister Annie
Wells Cannon in 1883, she wrote concern-
ing this Society of Berne, and others, she
says: Notwithstanding that it has lost
many members through the emigration it
still has a membership of 39. Regular
meetings are held every fort-night, in one
meeting the sisters speak and bear testi-
mony, and in the other report the districts
to which they have been assigned. In
addition to these meetings, work meetings
are held occasionally. The last report
dated January 15, 1884, stated that the
cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
that they had an outlay during the preced-
ing six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers
were Rosina Steiner, President; Magda-
lene Meyer and Maria Schneider, Counse-
lors; Sophia Kindlisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was
organized by Elder Alvis Boner, the 5th
of February, 1883, though a very small
Society it has been a very industrious and
active one. In the one year it has held
36 meetings, most of them work meetings.
Sister Barga Haage the energetic Presi-
dent has been untiring in her endeavors,
and much good has been done by this
little Society though only numbering
seven members. They started with a
working capital of Frs. 4.63, which they
have increased nine fold. They have as-
sisted some of their emigrating sisters
and purchased many useful Xmas gifts for
the needy children of the branch of the
Church in that place.
	The Relief Society of Scherll was or-
ganized September 24, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. There are now eleven members.
Elizabeth Michel, President; Eliza Kohler

[Column 2]
and Kathrine Michel, Counselors; and
Anna Eliza Michel, Secretary. The mem-
bers express themselves much improved
strengthened and encouraged by these
meetings and better able to help each
other in different ways.
	The Relief Society of Linach was or-
ganized on February 3, 1884, by Elder
Avis Bauer. There are ten members;
Barbara Naef, President; Maria Fretz
and Babette Fischer, Counselors; and
Rosina Baahardt, Secretary. The annual
Conference of the Swiss and German Mis-
sion was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December 1883. The last even-
ing of the Conference, Dec. 24th, the
Relief Society held a meeting. Eleven
Elders and one sister from Utah were
present (Sister Annie Wells Cannon) and
a large attendance of Saints besides many
strangers. Sister Rosina Steiner presided
with ease and coolness. Good and inter-
esting testimonies were borne, and en-
couragement offered to the sisters in the
work in their different languages, English,
French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects, that might be called
many more languages.
	They were delighted with the things
told them by Sister Cannon about the
work of the Relief Society in Zion and
especially pleased when told a Hospital
had been founded under the auspices of
the Society here in Utah.
	Sister Cannon wrote, those engaged in
the Society work have discovered the
great benefit of the organization in times
of sickness and need, that they are of
much help to each other and to the breth-
ren and that the Society is a great sup-
port to the branch of the Church to which
it belongs.
	While Sister Cannon was in Europe on
the Continent, she prepared a sort of
Epistle, “To the Relief Society of the
Swiss and German Mission” which was
published in the “Stern.” This Epistle
set forth the work of women in the
Church, the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, and in
fact gave a sketch of the Society up to
that time mentioning the General Officers
and certain departments of the work,
storing grain, the Woman’s Exponent,
sericulture, the Deseret Hospital the en-
couraging of young women in the study
of medicine as a profession, and many
other things incidentally. The epistle
was highly approved by Sister Eliza R.
Snow then General President of the So-
ciety, who commended it and wished it
published, in the Woman’s Exponent
here in Utah, which was accordingly done
by her request.
	It is only just to add that at the time
Sister Cannon visited these organizations
abroad, she was only a very young woman
twenty three years of age.


AGNES CROSS DOUGLAS.
	A word in remembrance of Sister Doug-
las from one of the many sisters who
knew her intimately and had often par-
taken of her boundless hospitality in her
own home. 
    Sister Douglas, who has so recently left
us to enter upon another sphere of action
was in the early days of the sisters travel-
ing and organizing in wards, etc., very
active and helpful. She was closely asso-
ciated with Sister Eliza R. Snow, and


Sister Margaret T. Smoot, (Ma Smoot)
and was a very dear friend and sort of 
comrade of Sister Elizabeth Howard.
She was a woman of dignified appear-
ance and had a good influence with her
associates and coworkers; she was well-
versed in the scriptures, full of faith and
integrity to the Gospel, and of a decided-
ly spiritual temperament. When near-
ing the close of her earthly life she be-
held a glorious vision, that seemed to 
her who was then so near the boundary
where only the “veil” separates us from
the other shore, intensely real. There
is no doubt in the minds of those who
were by her bedside at the time that
her mother appeared and called her, for 
she answered her audibly, the vision of
a dear, departed daughter was also visi-
ble to her, and the atmosphere of the 
vision in the room testified to the family
surrounding her bed that her escort was
there ready to accompany her to the
“land of pure delight.”
	As one by one these veteran sisters pass
away it recalls the fact that but few re-
main, who wrought with Sister Eliza and
Aunt Zina in the commencement of
woman’s organisations; very recently Sis-
ter Rebecca Atwood Wareham of Manti,
has joined the innumerable oompany of
those who have been among the early
workers, there are but few left now
of those who helped establish woman’s
work in the Church, here and there one
afar off in some stake of Zion, and here
we have our beloved General President of
the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith
and in Ogden we have Sister Jane S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society
of Weber Stake. We should not forget
to do honor to those who have served so
long and fathfully while they are still 
with us and laboring diligently, actively
planning for the betterment of the Soci-
ety at large, that has now become so
great and numerous.


FEDERAL SUFFRAGE BILL H. R. 5360.

	A bill to protect the rights of women
citizens of the United States to register
and vote for members of the House of
Representatives:
	Whereas, the right to choose members
of the House of Representatives is vested
by the Constitution in the people of the
states without distinction of sex, but for
want of proper legislation has hitherto
been restricted to one-half of the people.
For the purpose, therefore, of correcting
this error and of giving effect to the Con-
stitution,
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, that
women who are citizens of the United
States, who possess such qualifications of
age, residence, property or education as
may be required of men to make them ler
gal voters in the several states shall be
eligible to register and vote in all states
of the Union at all elections for members
of the House of Representatives.

WANTED—20,000 NAMES.

	We want the signatures of 20,000 adult
citizens which we can use in support of
the Federal Suffrage Bill giving women
the right to vote for members of the
House of Representatives. Every reader
can get some names. The form given
below enables the names to be used for


any woman suffrage measure in Congress,
and it is a continuous petition, that can
be used as long as needed.
	Use this form. Cut this out or copy
on sheet of paper, lined down the middle,
with names on one side and addresses,
with street and’number, on the other.
	PETITIONERS FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	We, the undersigned adult citizens of
the United States, hereby authorize Ihe
Federal Women’s Equality Association
to affix our signatures to any memorial or
petition that may be presented to Con-
gress on behalf of woman suffrage.
	Persons who wish to aid this work may
become members of the Federal Wo-
man’s Equality Association by paying $1.
A ticket will be sent with the autographs
of Isabella Beecher Hooker, the honorary
president; of Belva A. Lockwood, the
president,and of Rev. Olympia Brown,the
vice-president. Of all the splendid galaxy
of pioneer workers these alone remain
who'were active in early days and have
kept up active and official relation to the
work ever since. Their autographs will
be a priceless possession in any family.
Life memberships are $25.00, and contri-
butions of any size will be welcomed and
duly acknowledged.— Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Agnes Cross Douglass, the subject of this sketch,
was born on April 6, 1818, in the parish of Carro-
way, County Antrim, Ireland.
	She was the daughter of John Cross and Margar-
et McCune Cross. She resided with her parents un-
til she was sixteen years of age when her mother
died leaving to her entire charge the care of seven
children, the youngest at that time being only
eleven months old.
	Her father, becoming dissatisfied, left Ireland
and went to Scotland, the family soon following
after, and they made their home at Campsie, near
Glasgow. It was here that she heard and embraced
the Gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints.
She was baptised by Elder David Wilkie on March
30, 1842, and was married Oct. 14 in the same year
to William Douglass. Soon after they moved to
Belfast, Ireland, where they made their home un-
til the year 1844. They emigrated to America,
crossing the sea in the good ship Norfolk, from 
Liverpool by way of New Orleans, coming up the
Mississippi river by steamboat to St. Louis, where 
they arrived in December, 1844.
	The following spring they left St. Louis and
went to Nauvoo, and there built a house and
passed through the stirring scenes of that trying
time, their house being riddled by bullets from the
guns of the mob.
	By the counsel of Elder Orson Hyde, on the 6th
of April, 1846, the family returned to St. Louis
and remained in that city until March 10, 1848.
	On that date they left St. Louis by ox team
bound for the west and traveled from there to 
Winter Quarters near to where the city of Omaha
now stands.
	On May 17, 1848, the family started from Win-
ter Quarters for Salt Lake Valley in Brigham
Young's company, Lorenzo Snow being captain
of the one hundred wagons and Thomas McClel-
land being captain of the ten in which Brother
and Sister Douglass traveled.
	The journey across the plains was a tedious one
as they  had to make roads and build bridges along 
the route.
	The company arrived in Salt Lake Valley Sept.
23, 1848. In 1849 the family built a house in the
First Ward, in Salt Lake City, Sister Douglass as-
sisting in its erection. The house in question still
stands, a monument of the untiring energies of
its builders.
	In the spring of 1858 the family in company
with others left Salt Lake City and located in Pay-
son, and the family from that date have been
closely identified with the business enterprises of 
Payson.
	Sister Douglass has always been an energetic
church worker, and while a resident in the First
Ward, Salt Lake City, she was chosen first coun-
selor to Sister Lydia Knight. president of the (Fe-
male) Relief Society of that ward.
	Her record in Payson has been on the same ac-

[Column 2]
tive lines, and on the organization of the Payson
Relief Society she was chosen first counselor to
Sister Jane Simons, its president; associated with
her were Sister Mary Moore, Clarissa Moore and
Mary Ann Hardy, all of whom performed active
work in ministering to the sick, bringing aid to
the needy. and performing the last sad rites to the
silent dead.
	Sister Douglass was a wise counselor, her ex-
perience qualifying her for that position, under-
standing human nature in all its forms. Her judg-
ment was formed on safe lines, and never doubt-
ing the divinity of the work she had embraced in 
her early you[-]h she was true and faithful to the 
end of her mortal life.
	Surrounded by loving children, and here let it
be added, by the spirit of one of her departed
children, who was waiting to pilot her to her
heavenly home, she succumbed to the pains of
mortality, departing this life Sept. 5, 1906, aged
88 years and 5 months.
	She was the mother of eight children, four of
whom, including her husband, preceded her to the
spirit world. The four remaining children 
are married and reside in Payson, as follows: Samuel
Douglass, Joseph S. Douglass, Mrs Hyrum Lem-
mon, Mrs. M. D. Dixon. Thirty-five grandchil-
dren and thirty-five great-grandchildren are left
to mourn the departure of the deceased.
	Sister Douglas could truly say as was said by
one of old.
	“I have fought the good fight. I have finished
my course, I have kept the faith; henceforth there
is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which
the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
that day, and not to me only, but unto all them
also that love His appearing.”
	The funeral services were held Friday after-
noon, Sept. 7th, in the Second Ward meeting-
house, and the body interred in the beautiful family
burial spot in the Payson City cemetary.—Com.


OBITUARY.
	To the memory of our beloved sister. Olive
W[-]olley Kimball, who departed this life October
18, 1906, at the L. D. S. Hospital, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
	The sad news was received at Thatcher, Arizona,
(her home) October 19, and cast a gloom over the
entire community. President Andrew Kimball
arrived home with his wife’s remains on Wednes-
day, October 24, and the funeral services were
held the following Sunday.
				RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has called from our midst our beloved sis-
ter; and
	Whereas our intimate association with her in the
performance of her duties as first counselor in the
St. Joseph Stske Relief Society, thus it is emin-
ently befitting that we record our appreciation of
her labors, as she had through her kind and gen-
tle disposition endeared herself to all the sisters of
this stake.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake,
that we mourn the loss of our dear sister, that we
appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set for us to follow, but we are
comforted with the thought, that if worthy we will
meet and enjoy her society again.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved family
our sincere sympathy and pray God that His com-
forting influence may be with them in their great
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family of the deceased, and be
placed on our records, and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Why do we mourn that she has left us?
		We should only say well done!
	She was true to her probation,
		And a place in heaven has won.
	’Tis true her parting bas bereft us,
		But her virtues we recall—
	She was candid, firm and valiant,
		And a loving friend to all.
	She has gathered with her kindred,
		But her work will never cease.
	She will love the truth in heaven,
		And impart her works of peace.
	While she mingles with the angels.
		Yet her choicest blessings fall.
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones.
		Yes, she blesses one and all.
					ELIZABETH W. LAYTON,
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE W. KIMBALL,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Ellen Bullock Adamson died at her home
in Pleasant Grove, Nov. 4th. 1906. She was the
daughter of Alexander and Emily C. Bullock;
born in Salt Lake City. October 8th, 1862; leaves
a husband and nine children, the youngest three
weeks old.
	Impressive services were held in Clark’s Hall
on the 7th inst., where a large congregation of sor-
rowing relatives and friends assembled. The
floral tributes were beautiful and appropriate. In-
structive and consoling remarks were made by the
speakers, Brother J. C. Thorne, J. D Wadley.
Sisters Sine Chipman, and Annie C. Hindley, of
the Relief Society Stake Presidency, brother
J. L. Brown, of Provo, President James Clarke,
and Bishop S. L. Swenson.
	The following resolutions of respect were
adopted by the Pleasant Grove Relief Society, of
which she was the assistant secretary for many
years, and for three years the secretary.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our beloved sister, Ellen B. Adam-
son,
	Resolved, that we deeply mourn the absence of
an active and faithful member of the society one
who was ever ready and willing to do her part
with especial promptness and regularity. She
was a devoted wife and mother, and a fervent
Latter-day Saint, loved and respected by all her
associates.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to the parents, the bereaved husband and mother-
less children and ask God to bless them and cause
them to feel that he is their friend and that their
sorrow is not greater than they can bear.
	Resolved that these resotutions be entered in our
minutes, a copy presented to the bereaved family
and one forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication. 
				LOUISA HALLIDAY, President.
				ROSE B. HAYES, Sec. pro. tem.


ISABEL SMITH KNIGHT.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Alwise and Eternal Father in His
infinite wisdom has called our beloved Sister, Isa-
bel Smith Knight, from our midst; and
	Whereas, Sister Knight has been closely con-
nected with the Relief Society of the Taylor Stake
since its organization, as counselor in the Ray-
mord ward, and for the past three years as assist-
ant stake secretary.
	We, the stake officers, representing all the
branches of the Relief Society of the Tay-
lor Stake, desire to express our appreci-
ation of her integrity and worth as a faithful
daughter of Israel, and wish to extend our sincere
sympathy to the members of her family in their
sad bereavement.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our sym-
pathy to her mother, her husband and children;
be it further—
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
the records of the Relief Society of this stake, and
that a copy be presented to the bereaved families,
and also to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	Hannah M. Russell, President; Elizabeth S.
Hardy, Kate L. Paxman, Counselors Gertrnde
W. Cannon, Secretary.


OBITUARY.
	At Hinckley, Millard County, August 11th, 1906
there passed from earth one of our Father’s choice
spirits, Clarinda J. Stout, wife of Hosea F. Stout.
She has been a great sufferer for some time, from
what finally proved to be cancer of the stomach.
	Sister Clarinda was first counselor in our Relief
Society for five years, and has faithfully done her
duty in this office, responding cheerfully to every
call
	We, her co-workers, miss her cheerful voice and
smile, yet we feel it is well with her and
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father in
His great wisdom to call unto Himself our dear
sister. 
	Be it therefore resolved, that while we, as of-
ficers and members of this Relief Society deplore
her loss, we yet bow in humble submission to the
will of our Father and we recognize in her de-
parture the loss of a faithful and energetic worker
in our society, a devoted wife and mother, and a
true Latter-day Saint. We also recognize in her


faithful labors an example worthy of emulation by
all.
	Resolved, that we, her sisters, sincerely sympa-
thize with her bereaved husband, Hosea F. Stout,
and her family.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed on
our records, and that they be published in the
Woman’s Exponent also that a copy be sent to
the family of our dear sister and friend.
	True and tender, self-denying,
		One of truth’s disciples brave—
	Let her sleep, she needs to slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave,
	Shall we mourn for one who’s left us?
		Yes, our tears we needs must blend
	Love’s our offering, this we owe thee,
		Faithful mother—faithful friend.
	President Naomi R. Theobald; Catherine A.
A1lred, Pheobe Meacham, Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			SNOWFLAKE.
	Our Relief Society Conference is just
over, and we trust the work has received
an impetus which will help it to roll
along more smoothly than ever before.
	Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
J. Cannon, of the General Board were
the chief attractions of the day and spoke
refreshingly on Relief Society work, giv-
ing timely and good advice to mothers
and explaining in detail the duties of
officers and members. The subject of
storing up grain was touched upon and
our greatest mission, the saving of souls,
was made a specialty.
	Reports of a part of the ward organiza-
tions were given by their respective presi-
dents and representatives. All spoke en-
couragingly of the attendance and the
good spirit among the sisters.
	In connection with various other speak-
ers, our esteemed ex-president, Emma
Smith, helped to make the occasion a
success by her motherly and wise coun-
sel.
	President Smith D. Rogers was present
at the afternoon session and spoke a
short time on the good the auxiliary or-
ganizations had done.
	The stake report showed an addition of
one new society to our ranks. It was or-
ganized at Woodland Sep. 10, 1906, by
President Mary J. R. West. The follow-
ing officers were sustained: Mary E.
Bradshaw, president; Thressa F. Johnson,
Julia E. West, counselors; Rettie Hansen
secretary and treasurer.
	President West expressed her gratitude
for the visit of the sisters and reported
the success of our missionary effort as
very gratifying. The sisters have taken
pleasure in visiting each other’s Relief
Society organizations, and thus far have
been kindly received.
	An entertainment in honor of Sisters
Woodruff and Cannon had been planned
for the evening, but as they were very
tired it was given up.
	We are doing as well as usual in our
work and endeavoring to do better still.
The sisters are liberal in their donations
and a spirit of love and union character-
izes all the society throughout the stake.
	Trusting the Lord will bless you abund-
antly, I remain sincerecly yours.
	DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Secretary.
			UINTAH.
	Minutes of 40th Relief Society confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Glines Ward, August 30, 1906, President

[Column 2]
Sarah M. Colton presiding. After the
regular exercises of singing and prayer,
roll call and reading of minutes, President
Sarah M. Colton reported the stake in
good condition. Essay from Glines Re-
lief Society read by Sister Emily Ratty,
written by Sister Annie Snider, entitled
“Progress of women.”
	Reports given from the following sis-
ters: Edna Cole reported Mountain Dell;
Sister Phebe Histop reported Maeser;
Sister Mary O’Neil reported Glines. Each
reported the respective society in good
condition. Lecture by Sister Almeda
Perre, subject, “Mother and Home In-
fluence.” Sister Emma Roberts reported
Naples. Sister Hannah Odekirk reported
Vernal. Each reported the respective
society in fair condition. Sister Nancy
A. Colton spoke a short time, referred to
the 25th chapter of Matthew, and then
spoke upon the chapter. Sister Rhoda
Goodrich spoke of the reward we will
have for our labors, also of progression
and charity. After singing and benedic-
tion, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Amelia Orser reported Jen-
son society in good condition. Instru-
mental music from Vernal Relief Society.
Sister Esther Carroll spoke on faith and
tithing and urged each and every one to
live up to the same. Sister Nancy A.
Colton spoke on faith, also spoke of the
company our children should keep, said
mothers should try and make home the
happiest place on earth. She referred to
Sunday School, what a blessing it was.
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.
	Brother Reuben S. Collett spoke of
our spreading sunshine or gloom where-
ever we go, said when we have the spirit
to teach we should teach, realized moth-
ers had a great mission, referred to the
morals of young people and of the influ-
ence mothers have over their children.
	Elder William Smart, president of
Uintah Stake spoke of punctuality, would
have been pleased to have met with the
sisters this morning, but it was impos-
sible to do so; he encouraged the sisters
in their work; said “work is the only way
of progression and if each one will work
in her place it will make the load easy for
all. If we neglect our duties we do not
reap the fruits we should.” Many good
things were said by each speaker.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to meet in Naples ward. Singing, “O
Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Presi-
dent William Smart.
		PHEBE ANN MERKLEY, Sec.
		TAYLOR STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Taylor Stake
convened in conference at Raymond, May
22, 1906, at 10 a. m.
	President Hannah M. Russell presided.
After the usual opening exersises, Sister
Annie Wells Cannon of Salt Lake City, a
member of the General Board, addressed
those present; said there are fifty-five
stakes to visit and it takes a number of
sisters to do that work. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells sent their love to the Relief
Society workers in Canada, and said they
would love to visit you, but it is too far
away.
	The Relief Society has grown from a
membership of eighteen to more than

[Column 3]
thirty-five thousand. Spoke of the order
in which everything is done by this soci-
ety. Gave instructions upon the storing
of grain, and also the nurses’class con-
ducted in Salt Lake. Desired more
nurses to take this course.
	Counselor Kate E. Paxman made a few
remarks upon Relief Society work. A
solo was rendered by Sister Nellie Ben-
nett of Stirling. Reports from all of the
wards were given, showing that they are
accomplishing much good.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. by
singing and prayer.
	At the close of the morning session an
officers, (stake and ward) meeting was
held, where special instructions were
given by Sisters Annie W. Cannon, Hannah
M. Russel; and Miriam Y. Hardy, also a
missionary from Salt Lake.
	Afternoon session, President Hannah
M. Russell presided. The usual opening
exercises were conducted. Sister Russel
reported the work and conditions of the
Taylor Stake. Expressed her pleasure in
having President Anthon H. Lund and
Apostle J. H. Smith and Stake
President H. S. Allen present. A solo
was rendered by a member of Raymond
ward. A lecture, “What the Gospel has
done for Woman,” was given by Sister
Alice Magrath. Sister Mariam Y. Hardy
one of the visitors from Salt Lake, was
pleased to be among the people of this
country. Said the chief work of the Re-
lief Society is to look after the sick and
those in need, and comfort those who are
in need of spiritual as well as physical
aid. Advised mothers to make home
pleasant, and not scold too much. Parents
should set a good example before their
children.
	A song was sung by Sister Augusta
Erickson of Stirling.
	Apostle John Henry Smith adressed the
congregation and among other things said
that he had been a student of history and
nowhere in the world do they give such
instructions in morality as are given in
the Chur[-]h of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of Relief Society work,
and said we will be judged according to
the way we look after those who need
our help.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon advised those
present to listen to the counsel of Brother
Lund and teach children by example.
	President H. S. Allen also made a few
remarks upon the rearing of children.
	A duet, “God be with us until we meet
again,” was s[-]ng by sisters from Ray-
mond.
	President Hannah M. Russell thanked
all who had assisted in making the con-
ference a success. Conference adjourned
for three months, after singing and bene-
diction.
			GERTRUDE W. CANNON,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE.
	The general quarterly conference of
Alpine stake was held at American Fork,
October 19, 1906, President Rebecca
Standring presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few remarks of wel-
come. Said “it would be well to review
our work since the organization of the
stake, and see how much we have ad-
vanced. Let us wake up and see what
progress we can make. God has promised


[Column 1]
to help us, and His power shall preserve
this work. It is too late for our enemies
to enact such scenes as the people passed
through in early days.” Prayed for a
blessing on all that may be said or done
this day.
	The presidents of wards gave their re-
ports in their usual spirited manner,
showing that the wards were in a good,
healthy condition and the sisters alive in
their duties.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, of the
General Society, addressed the meeting.
“We enjoy a good spirit when we meet
in a beautiful room like this. We are
teaching more every day by what we are
than by what we say. Many are starving
for kind words and sympathy. The Lord
sends the sunshine and the good things
of the earth to all, then let us appreciate
our blessings, even the grandeur of the
mountains and of the beautiful sunset.
Let us see the goodness of God in our
abundant blessings of field and meadow,
of garden and orchard. The Lord has
promised to take care of His people.
When trouble comes we want to push
forward and ask ourselves, Will I stand—
will I support the authorities?” The
speaker had associated with the author-
ities, and had seen the purity of heart and
the beauties of their character. Spoke
of the training of children. It should
begin with their earliest years, when they
are quite small. “Often mothers think
they can break the stubborn will, but you
might as well think of breaking their
backs. Keep your child from evil sights
and sounds, and do not put pictures on
your walls that will lead to evil in the
minds of your children to bring forth fruit
in after years.”
	Singing, “’Mid scenes of confusion and
creature complaint.”
	Sister Clayton. of Provo, said the train-
ing of children should commence at their
birth. “If they are neglected in those
early days they are almost sure to go
astray when they grow older. The little
spirits are hard to control, but we cannot
treat them with harshness. Life is too
short for mothers to get cross. The con-
trol of the child is left often entirely to
the mother, the fathers shirk the respon-
sibility, and God will judge them for this
neglect. We should thank God for trials,
for it keeps us in the line of our duty.
The path may be thorny, but it is
straight.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had
been pleased with the reports and the
remarks made. The teaching was
excellent, and should be of lasting
benefit to all. We should appreciate our
conditions and acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all our circumstances in
life and be satisfied.
	President A. J. Evans made a few re-
marks. His heart was in the cause, and
he felt the sisters were doing their duty,
and prayed God to bless them in their la-
bors.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned until 2 o’clock.

[Column 2]
		Afternoon session.
	After the opening exercises, more re-
ports were given by the presidents of
wards, showing unity and a desire to do
their duty.
	An address was given by stake mission-
ary Sina Chipman on “The use of theol-
ogy to Relief Society workers.”
	Song, “I need Thee every hour,” by
Sister Prudence Storrs.
	Extracts from Pres. James H. Clark’s
address: This Church in its simplicity is
wonderful. It reaches to the inmost
soul of man and woman. You have re-
ceived inspiration and instruction today
that is priceless. Teach your children to
be sincere in their prayers, and make it
a habit to go to the Lord for His protec-
tion and guidance. Spoke of Religion
Classes being neglected, the children in-
dulge in too much pleasure. The Prim-
ary Association is neglected, and we have
no more diligent teachers than our Prim-
ary workers. The Lord is fully guiding
the destiny of this people. His care and
protection are over His Prophet and our
leaders, and this work will go on triumph-
ant to the end.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley bore testi-
mony to the Holy Spirit. Let us take
time to serve the Lord, and not separate
in the morning until we have called our
family together and committed them to
the care of the Lord. The mother can
attend to this duty when the father is
called away to his daily labor. Let us
uphold and sustain our Prophet and those
in authority over us, for it is by prophecy
and revelation that we were organized.
	Sister Bennett, of Provo, bore testi-
mony that the Spirit of the Lord was
here today, and could fancy that the an-
gels were among us. Urged the young
mothers to come forward and join the
Relief Society and make their name and
influence felt for good,
	President Standring made closing re-
marks. Had taken pleasure and satisfac-
tion in the influence of the spirit that
had prevailed in the conference. Felt
to bless the sisters and their families, and
urged them to let it be “the kingdom of
God or nothing.” May God bless you all.
Amen.
	After singing and prayer, conference
was adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
		DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
		LADIES’ SPECIALIST
			TEACHER OF
		Obstetrics and Nursing
ROOM 417 TEMPLETON BUILDING
Phone 4372 y		-	-	Salt Lake City


Mrs. William Grey, the founder of the
Maria Grey Training College for Women,
at Brondesbury, England, has lately
died, aged ninety. Woman and Progress
(London) says: “Mrs. Grey was one of
the earliest advocates of the higher edu-
cation of women, and took a prominent
part in founding the National Union for
Improving the Education of Women, an
organization out of which the Girl’s Pub-
lic Day School Company developed.
Mrs. Grey was also a well known sup-
porter of the women’s suffrage move-
ment.”


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Nora Stanton Blatch, grand-
daughter of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, has
been appointed a member of the New
York City staff of civil engineers in charge
of the $161,000,000 Catskill water supply
system.
	Miss Florence Nightingale, who lately
entered on her eighty-seventh year, re-
ceived scores of congratulations on her
birthday. She is feeble physically, but
bright in mind, and she still interests her-
self in the Nightingale Nurses’ Training
Home. It is not generally known that
Miss Nightingale in her youth had a great
wish to study medicine, a profession then
closed to women. When Elizabeth Black-
well was pursuing her medical studies in
London, Miss Nightingale used often to
come and sit with her in her stuffy little
bedroom, and talk over their common
aspirations for woman’s welfare Miss
Nightingale has been a life-long advocate
of suffrage for women. When asked her
reasons, she answered, “I have no rea-
sons, It seems to me almost self-evident,
an axiom, that every householder and
taxpayer should have a voice in the ex-
penditure of the money we pay, includ-
ing, as this does, interests the most vital
to a human being.”
	The ministers of at least thirty churches
in Philadelphia on the Sunday before
election implored their flocks to vote for
the reform candidates. But, as two thirds
of the members of their flocks were wom-
en without votes, the anti-reform candi-
dates were elected.
	A “Birthday Calendar of Suffrage Wo-
men” has been prepared by Jane A. Stew-
art. It is “perpetual,” i. e., by an in-
genious arrangement, the dates can be
made to fit any year, simply by shifting
a little slip.
	It is enriched with portraits of Lucre-
tia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Liver-
more, Frances Willard, and Mrs. Lillian
M. N. Stevens, and gives the dates of the
birthdays of a great number of famous
women. In this particular it would be a
special help to suffrage clubs that would
like to commemorate some distinguished
woman at each meeting. There are
many well-chosen quotations in favor of
equal suffrage. Those on the first page
are from Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and
President M. Cary Thomas of Bryn Mawr.
	The calendar would make an excellent
Christmas present. It may be ordered
from the Woman’s Journal office, Boston,
Mass. Price, 30 cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 35			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JANUARY, 1907. [HOLIDAY NUMBER]			No. 6


CONTENTS.
A Christmas Romance.................. E. B. W	41
Relief Society Report:— Pioneer Stake....	45
In Memoriam.............................................	46
Resolutions of Respect..............................	46
Rebecca Atwood Warren...........................	46
Utah Women’s Press Club.........................	47
Outlines Uintah Relief Society..................	47
The N. W. R. S. Convention......................	48
Anthony House Burned.............................	48
Concerning Women...................................	48
Editorial:— Holiday Time— Utah Women
	Elected in Nov. 1906— A Very Pretty
	Wedding..............................................	44
	Editorial Notes....................................	45
Poetry:— Restoration........... Ellis R. Shipp	41
	The Difference—The Christ of Bethle-
	hem............................. Lydia D. Alder	41


RESTORATION.
	A tiny seed, a mite so small
That human eyes could scarce behold,
Asleep in mother earth did fall
While closely round her arms enfold,
Its vital powers hid away
’Til wakened by creative power.
Then swells, and bursts its cumbrous clay
Expanding to a beauteous flower.
Beloved form in earth entombed
Inert and silent rests for years,
Where many seasons flowers have bloomed
Made sweet by love’s bedewing tears.
Until a holy touch awakes
And fills with life the dormant spark,
Of living fire the soul partakes,
Emerges from its prison dark.
He came a heing most divine!
Though clothed in transient earthly guise
To give His life to save mankind
Then from earth’s thraldom to arise
Sublimest nature ever known
Into this world an infant born,
A mundane mantle round him thrown.
Within the tomb was laid forlorn.
But rising from His cerement clothes
From out His parted sepulchre,
Our Savior to His Father rose,
Redeemer of a mortal sphere.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE DIFFERENCE.
Two women stand at a cradle side,
	And gaze on a p cture fair—
A nestling child, with dark fringed eyes,
Where lurks the deep-toned blue of the skies,
	And shining, sun-touched hair.
One of them sees but a sleeping child
	Clasping a battered doll.
She notes the beauty of form and face.
And the rich effect of the priceless lace
	On the carven cradle—that’s all.
She kisses the babe as she tarries a while;
Then turns away with a careless smile.
The other gazes with misty eyes,
	And the cradle fades away.
Before her stretches the path of life,
With all the peril and toil and strife,
	And the dangers of every day.
She sees the tiny form grown strong,
	And the tender heart grown cold
In the race for pleasure that ends in pain,
The eager struggle ’twixt loss and gain,
	The maddening quest for gold.
And she sobs a prayer, ‘O God that Thou
Wouldst keep him ever as pure as now!”
These women stand in the self-same place,
They are not unlike in form and face;
They see the same child in a wee white cot.
But one is a mother—and one is not,


THE CHRIST OF BETHLEHEM.
O, Bethlehem, thou fair and favored one,
	Close nestling ’neath Judea’s towering hills,
How quaint, how picturesque thy storied scenes—
	Because of thee my heart with rapture thrills.
’Twas here the angels sang sweet heavenly strains,
	And here the shepherds watched their flocks by
		night;
Shone here the star, whose brilliance filled the
		world
	Its dazzling sheen—an awe-inspiring sight.
A low, faint cry—a hush—a smothered moan—
	A babe was born; ’twas signaled by the star;
The sleeping world knew not a prince had come—
	The Prince of Peace, whose advent meaneth
		war.
A manger cradled this distinguished One;
	His parents late had come—their city far—
Perfor[-]e they must accept this lowly place,
	Where lowing of the cattle doth the quiet mar.
No birth of earthly king like this proclaimed, 
	By blazing star and angels’ song divine;
And though he wore no purple robes or grand,
	Immortalized, his name lives through all time.
Had He ne’er come, what would the world have
		been,
	Bereft of rosy hope—of gladness—love?
Communion now between the earth and heaven,
	For one had come e’en from the worlds above.
And heaven seems not far away, e’er more
	’Twill be a trysting place among the stars;
For He, the King, the Prince of love divine,
	Has come to earth through those bright, shining
		bars.
A wealth of love this babe brought to the world,
	Not only to His mother—modest, fair—
But to the lowliest creature ’mong all men.
	It lights th’ abodes of mis’[-]y everywhere.
A race condemned by Righteousness to die,
	To sleep forever in their native dust;
The grave, abode once of the Sinless One,
	Must yield the treasure it but holds in trust.
Christ’s mission: who may learn its heights, its
		depths,
	Or feel the weight of guilt he bore for all,
Or understand the glory, heirship given Him,
	When He redeemed earth’s millions from the
		“Fall?”
Earth’s vict’ry, too, must come; no longer shall
	It be degraded—moved to a lower sphere,
The Christ of Bethlehem shall loose its bands,
	Resplendent ’mong celestial orbs it shall ap-
		pear.
Thou Babe of Bethlehem! to Thee we bring
	Our glad hosannas on this Christmas morn.
Rejoice, O earth, lend thou a list’ning ear,
	The song from sea to sea, “Lo, Christ the Lord
		is born!”
						LYDIA. D. ALDER.


Mother Bickerdyke, the mother, nurse
and confessor of the army boys of the
Civil War, gave thanks for just being use-
ful. When she might have entered Wash-
ington in honor at the grand review of
Sherman’s and Meade’s armies, she pre-
fered to ride with her troops, wearing a
calico dress and a sunbonnet. Then, soon
leaving their ranks to wait upon them
with food and water, she said: “I never
considered myself ornamental or worth
making a show of, but I can be useful,
and that’s all I want.”


A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	The streets of the city were filled with
light and gaiety, bright colors predomi-
nated everywhere, and the shop windows
were full of toys, beautiful pictures and
dolls of every variety; and crowds of peo-
ple upon the street jostled against each
other, hurrying to and fro with their arms
full of packages and bundles. It was a
scene to delight the most fastidious artist
that ever reveled in human nature in its
simplicity and freedom at holiday time.
Children were overflowing with delightful
anticipations and laughter, songs and
music floated on the crisp December air.
	Three little girls were on tiptoe in a bay
window, watching the street scene; every
now and then exclaiming, “How pretty!
mamma, do come and see the trees and
things! Where’s our tree? We always
have one. Santa Claus is sure to come;
tomorrow’s Christmas.”
	The mother, full to bursting with anx-
iety trying to get work ready for the
eager patron she expected, had scarcely
heeded the children’s prattle until now,
and turning her sweet face smiling but
sad, said, “Wait a minute, dearies, mam-
ma has almost finished this picture, its
for Santa Claus to take away.’’
	“O, yes, but that’s not his, its for the
lady that comes so often to see you, she
isn’t Santa Claus.”
	“O, mamma here’s more trees com-
ing.”
	“Never mlnd, little ones, your’s will
come when you’re in bed. I’ll tell you a
story soon, when I’ve finished. Now do
be quiet, I must work.”
	Thus reproved, they continued to gaze
into the street and talk to each other.
	The pale, restless woman went on using
her brush, for the finishing touches of the
picture, and the room grew dim as night
approached and she seemed to see the
shadows of the past more and more vivid-
ly until she was almost blinded by the
mental panorama.
	She spoke half aloud. "I can’t do any
more tonight, not even if the worst
comes.”
	Little Jennie, turned as she heard her
mother sigh, and quickly ran to call the
maid.
	“Mamma is ill, Bettie;” but when Bettie
came the mother was composed again—
the scene had passed.
	“What was it, Mrs. Brandon?” Bettie
asked,
	“Only a fancy, Bettie. I thought I saw
a dream come true that I had long ago,
bring in the children’s supper, I must put
them to bed.”
	The simple repast was soon over, the
children had their pretty story told them
in truly mother style of the beautiful
“babe of Bethlehem,” and the mother
with her face buried in her hands sat
pondering over the situation, how to econ-
mize in spending the few shillings that
remained of her slender income. “I must
give the children something, and Lady
Maynard will not be here tonight, I thought
perhaps she would come early and would


[Column 1]
bring some Christmas trifles for the girls, I
am weary, so weary, but I must not give up,
I must finish the painting now; it is fairly
well done, yet I could improve it very
materially if I had the heart to work; if
only my strength would not fail,” and she
rocked herself to and fro in her agony,
clinching her hands, and again she saw
the shadowy panorama. “I must not sit
thinking,” she murmured, I will call Bet-
tie and tell her to watch for Lady May-
nard, I’ll be back soon.”
	Bettie answered the summons and Mrs.
Brandon threw on a warm wrap and a
scarf over her heavy mass of bright brown
hair, and in a flash she was sailing swiftly
along the street, mingling in the hurrying
throng, a figure so graceful and willowy
that one might readily fancy she was con-
scious of her own superior charms, she
carried herself so queenly, and her whole
appearance was most captivating. She
hesitated before a shop filled with toys,
and sweetmeats, made a few purchases,
and glancing around shyly, the light snow
falling on her giving her indeed the look
of a fairy, she heard some one call her
name. Turning from where the sound
came like a frightened bird she fled.
	“Geraldine! Geraldine!” repeated
again.
	She recognized the voice as of one long
since dead, but it was not he, she knew,
but some one very much alive, yet so like
his it was, she knew not what to do.
Terrified beyond expression she could not
think; almost night in the streets of a
a great city she could scarce move, and
yet she inevitably must. Motioning a
cab she jumped in it, the stranger still
watching, though she knew it not. At
her own door Bettie met her with, “Lady
Maynard is here waiting, furious that the
picture is not finished.”
	Pride came to her relief, and she
choked back the tears that were ready to
flow, she saw the carriage with its gilded
trappings, the driver on the box in livery,
the footman behind. She did not hesi-
tate a moment, but entered the small
apartment like a princess, carrying her
tiny packages; she saluted Lady Maynard
and told her simple story. The lady rose
with an imperious air scarcely deigning to
reply to the courteous apology, ‘‘I beg to
assure your Ladyship of my desire to
keep my promise to complete the work
tonight, but I was overcome with fatigue,
and was obliged to put down the brush.”
	“You left it to go out. The maid could
have made the Christmas purchases, they
were not so particular, I fancy.”
	Mrs. Brandon could not answer, it was
too humiliating. “I have explained, I
will do my best tomorrow. Christmas
cannot be a holiday to me,” and
from sheer exhaustion she sank down
upon the chair nearest the door.
	Lady Maynard was gone, but her maid
inquired in passionate tones, “What mes-
sage can I take to her Ladyship?”
	"I have told you all, there is no more
to say.”
	Bettie opening the street door for the
lady and her maid saw a hansom drawn
up near, but without thinking, so enraged
was she at this insolence of the lady’s
maid that it did not occur to her to men-
tion the matter to her mistress; before
Mrs. Brandon had time to recover her
composure the door bell rang, and she
heard a strange voice in the hallway, and
yet there was something familiar in the

[Column 2]
tone, reminding her of days gone by, of
voices she had listened to, and her heart
beat fast; she had forgotten the episode
in the street. It had been driven out of
her mind. Bettie entered with a card,
“The gentleman waits outside the door,
he is a grand one, it must be some one
you know,”
	Mrs. Brandon’s heart was thumping,
there was a singing in her ears. She
could not read the name for a few minu-
tes. Bettie was alarmed, ‘‘you are sure-
ly going to faint, madame,” and Bettie
caught her or she would have fallen.
The sudden arrival of one mourned as
dead had been too much for this delicate
woman, and just on the verge of serious
collapse, it was some time before she ral-
lied. Bettie ushered the stranger into the
hallway, where he paced to and fro,
impatient of the delay, not knowing the
cause. It was late to be calling and he
was not aware how he would be received.
He had not expected to find so easily the
woman he had come from afar in search
of, and if possible to effect a reconciliation
and make recompense for wasted years.
	Bettie the maid had tact if not knowl-
edge, she knew instinctively that her mis-
tress had a greater sorrow than the death
of her husband, she was not versed in
book knowledge, but in love affairs in her
own sphere she was up to date.
	She could interpret the stranger’s visit
after her own fashion, and was not at all
inclined to bid him begone.
	Mrs. Brandon recovered in part her
composure, but her nerves were so un
strung that she was scarcely able to recall
what had occurred in the street or how
she had been followed. The faithful Bet-
tie waited in suspense, not knowing what
would be best to do, but finally resolved
to urge her mistress to speak to the stran-
ger; she reluctantly consented to Bettie’s
urgent solicitations, saying, “Bettie, say
to the gentleman, if his business is very
important, I will speak to him for a few
minutes, though I am overcome with fa-
tigue and need rest and quiet.”
	All excitement, the maid hurried into
the hall, to do her mistress’ bidding. “If
you please, my lady says you may come
in if your business is very important.”
	Mr. Brandon brooked no delay, but
followed, almost rushing through the
doorway without making any reply to the
maid, Mrs. Brandon could not rise; the
figure, the voice, the manner, recalled to
her vividly one she had known in the
past, but who had died long ago, and she
could not utter a word, she was so terri-
fied. He came forward and grasped her
hand. She shrieked with fright; the
maid, too, was almost paralyzed with fear
lest her mistress should swoon again; but
the awakening of latent forces, the rousing
of memories hidden away in some corner
of her brain, came over her and prevented
faintness, though every pulse thrilled with
excitement. She gave way to tears and
sobs that were most pathetic; poor Bettie
tried all her restoratives, and a realization
of her position became apparent to Mrs.
Brandon.
	The stranger seized his opportunity.
Calling her by name softly, he said, “I
have returned from the East Indies, alive
and well—perhaps you thought I was
dead. Why do I find you in these poor
lodgings? And where is my brother?”
	Mrs. Brandon, her voice sounding far

[Column 3]
away, exclaimed, “Do you not know the
truth?”
	“How could I know? I have been five
years in foreign lands. After leaving Aus-
tralia I wended my way to India, and
only tonight I reached London, and be-
gan inquiry for my brother, when I saw
you most unexpectedly, and called to you,
but you fled like a wild deer. I followed,
to find you in these miserable apartments,
obliged to work, and was a most unwilling
listener to Lady Maynard’s offensive re-
marks, and the insolent language of her
companion. I am most unhappy because
of your distress. Tell me, is my brother
dead?”
	Getting no reply, save an almost inau-
ble “Yes,” he looked compassionately at
the fragile form of the woman before
him,whom he had left in her bridal dress
—the girl with whom he had been madly
in love, and whose picture he had carried
near his heart during his prolonged ab-
sence in a foreign country, and now he
gazed upon her clad in the deepest
mourning, and yet he recalled that on
the street she wore no widow’s weeds—
he was wild with suspense.
	“Tell me, Geraldine,” he implored,
“how long has my brother been dead?
Can you not believe that I have returned
and will care for you—that there must be
no more drudgery, no more insults from
society women of fashion, who flaunt
their ill manners in the homes of honest
people?”
	Geraldine still sobbed half unconscious
answering not a word, The stranger
turned to the maid and asked, “There are
children—how many?”
	Bettie was only too glad to break the
awkwardness of the situation—the miser-
able suspense, “Three little girls; the
youngest a baby, and they are expecting
Santa Claus, and my mistress has prom-
sed them a tree.”
	Without waiting, Mr. Brandon hurried
from the house. It was growing late, the
street singers were merrily caroling about
to catch the pennies being thrown to
them, and the streets were still crowded
with pedestrians; he made his way to the
nearest shops and returned loaded with
bundles; the small tree he had sent on be-
fore was taken by Bettie into the living
room and was already in place, when
he arrived with the gifts and ornaments,
Bettie was clever at decorating, for she
had been nursery maid before this great
sorrow had fallen upon the family, and
she longed to tell the stranger how his
brother had been brought home by his
comrades at dead of night, and all the
terrible scenes which followed. She knew,
however, her mistress would not approve
of her betraying her wretchedness, or tell-
ing to anyone how lonely and penniless
she had been left to struggle with fate for
these little ones.
	The first words were, “How js your
mistress—is she resting?” Bettie was
glad to talk of her. ‘‘She is still moan-
ing and sobbing. I gave her some tea—
she sipped a little. She cannot credit
your not knowing of your brother’s death.
She once told a strange lady who came to
ask after the children, that she had heard
of her husband’s only brother’s death in
Australia.”
	“Who was the lady?” he inquired.
	“An actress, I think,” said Bettie “all
powder and perfume. She offered my
mistress money, and left her card. Mrs.


[Column 1]
Brandon burned it, and gave me orders
never to admit her again if she should
call. She would not let her touch the
children. I took them away the moment
she came, but once in the park we saw
her in a carriage, and she threw kisses to
them. I believe she would steal Jennie
away if she could.”
	“Tell me their names, please, Bettie.”
	“Jennie, Rosie and Lily the baby.”
	Mr. Brandon wrote the names upon
a card and pinned one to each of the
beautiful dolls he had selected, and hav-
ing arranged all the elegant toys and or-
naments, sat down, pondering what he
could do to make her willing to listen to
him and accept his care and protection
for herself and the children dependent
now upon her earnings as an artist—an
accomplishment she had acquired for
pleasure; but her only resource when left
with little ones, after the sale of her jew-
elry and expensive olothing. She knew
if she failed she could go to some distant
relatives in the north of England, but she
dreaded rehearsing her affairs to those
who looked upon her marriage as a great
triumph, and it had only proved a mis-
erable failure from first to last; and had
ended in a tragic death, the story of
which she shuddered to think, and shrank
from all those who knew aught of the cir-
cumstances.
	Mrs. Brandon had taken lodgings where
she felt she would never be discovered
by any former acquaintances, and with
her faithful Bettie and an occasional
char-woman she had borne up almost
cheerfully for the sake of the children.
She had the true mother-heart that could
endure pain and sacrifice uncomplaingly
because of her unbounded maternal love.
	Horace Brandon seemed intuitively to
comprehend the struggles she had been
passing through. He had heard Lady
Maynard’s complaint and the reply of a
promise to finish the work tomorrow. It
was growing late, and would soon be mid-
night; the chimes on all the churches
would soon begin. If he could only rouse
her—was there no way, he wondered, to
make her believe in him. While he pon-
dered, a gentle knock came to the outer
door. Bettie, alert at every sound, ran,
he could hear soft, timid voices in the
hall; opening the door gently, he saw two
beautiful sisters of charity, in the garb of
their order. He had been familiar with
these ministering angels more or less all
his life, and quickly the thought came,
here is my opportunity. He spoke rever-
ently to them, and in a few words gave
them the pith of the delicate position in
which he found himself. The sisters
grasped the situation at once, and in a
few moments had taken the citadel, not
by storm, but by diplomacy.
	They were sisters of mercy, and knew
how to deal with all sorts of ailments.
They saw a heautiful young woman pros-
trated with trouble and overcome with
what seemed to her occult mystery—un-
able to account for the appearance of
one whose death had been strongly veri-
fied to his near relatives. They roused
her from apathy and gave her a soothing
cordial to drink, which caused reaction of
the heart almost instantaneously, and she
listened to the explanations made by
these tender-souled women, whose lives
were devoted to deeds of kindness. Thus
fortified, Mrs. Brandon consented to see
and converse with her husband’s brother,

[Column 2]
in the presence of the sisters, who re-
mained long beyond the usual visiting
time, realizing her extreme ideas of pro-
priety, even though he was a relative and
an old acquaintance. The coin Mr. Bran-
don slipped into the hands of these visit-
ors was adequate for the invaluable ser-
vice rendered to him. His mind was at
rest, he could sleep, even though a thou-
sand bells were pealing in his ears.
	Mrs. Brandon was not easily quieted,
many conflicting emotions wrought her
soul, gratitude for present needs for the
little ones, the charm of Santa Claus and
the Christmas tree would bring joy to
Jennie and Rosie, and baby Lily, though
so young, would feel the effect of the
Christmas joyousness.
	Of herself Geraldine knew not what to
think, she saw that Horace though grown
older, had in his heart kept the tender re-
membrance of what had once been his
fondest dream, his hope in life, and she,
though true to her marriage vows in every
sacred obligation, knew now, what she
had never acknowledged even to herself,
that Horace Brandon was the one man in
all the world that she could both love
and trust.
	The Sisters of Mercy returning late to
the convent asked audience with Father
Mathew, and when ushered into his pres-
ence, showed him the golden coin and
told him of the wonderful adventure; and
Father Mathew, listening with rapt at-
tention said, “My old student, Horace
Brandon. I must send for him here to-
morrow. Bless my Stars, Mother Mary
be praised! he has returned safely from
his travels, he went away in sorrow be-
cause his brother had wed the girl whom
he had hoped to win, for he was not
aware of her engagement to his older
brother Roger, a dashing, young, high-spir-
ted fellow, over-fond of sports and gay soci-
ety. I knew of the marriage and lost
sight of them afterwards; I learned of
the tragedy that caused his death, but
was not informed of the details; and you
say his widow is in destitute circumstan-
ces, he must have squandered two or
three fortunes, and she earning hardly a
subsistence, with such talents, the tale
is very pitiable, and most romantic, if I
may use such a term.”
	The Sisters of Mercy with downcast
eyes nodded assent to his outspoken
praise of Mrs. Brandon’s independence
and in the solitude of their own little
rooms commented upon Father Mathew’s
seeming approval of the romantic epi-
sode.
	“Strange how things come about when
two people love intensely,” said the
younger of the two Sisters; “was it the
strong love they had nurtured unseen
that over-ruled circumstances,and brought
them together after years of waitiug?”
	“Thee must put away all such idle fan-
cies and count thy beads and ask forgive-
ness for thy waywardness,” said the old-
er sister reprovingly.
	“Yes, sister, thee knows best, never-
theless Father Mathew had queer
thoughts when we told the story to him,
I know, I saw it in his countenance, and
he will see them both tomorrow, rest as-
sured.”
	“True love finds a way e’en through
locks and bars they say.”
	Christmas morn dawned joyfully in the
great city of London, the streets thronged
with children and carriages of all kinds

[Column 3]
rolled over the roads, and street singers
were heard everywhere. In the shabby
dilapidated lodgings of Mrs. Brandon
there was great commotion, Bettie had
risen early and the little ones in night-
clothes surrounded the tree with wonder
and surprise, calling “Mamma, mamma,
I knew Santa Claus would come!” and
they patted their hands and screamed
with delight and gaiety, dolls were soon
in their arms, and their mamma must 
tell them over and over how Santa Claus
clambered down the chimney. “My
dears, I know no more than you do how
he comes in or how he knows what is
wanted, but last night two of the Sisters
of Mercy came here late, perhaps they
told him how he could come in and what
to bring, for I told them I had three
sweet little girls with golden curls, and I
fancy they almost knew what good little
girls you were to go to bed so early.”
	Mrs. Brandon could scarcely talk so
affected was she with all Bettie had to
tell her of Horace Brandon’s devotion
and patience, waiting as he did to speak
to her and decorating the tree so daintily.
She praised Bettie for her fidelity, and
trustworthiness, while Bettie railed in
her most severe tones about Lady May-
nard and her stuck up maid, “who was
no better than other common people,”
she declared vehemently. “All’s well
that ends well,” Bettie quoted, “and this
Christmas will end with a big dinner and
a long journey.”
	“O, Bettie, how dare you say such
absurd things,” said her mistress.
	“I dreamed it.” the girl replied frankly,
“and I hope her Ladyship’s picture gets
sent home to her for a Christmas box.”
Mrs. Brandon protested against any
more such rash sayings, for the children’s
sake, and added, “Bettie, you must not
tell dreams and vagaries that come into
your head when you are oyerworked and
tired.”
	Bettie kept her own counsel, but left
the room muttering, “I know what’s go-
ing to happen, and you’ll see.”
	Horace Brandon sought out the Sisters
of Mercy and learned that his old precep-
tor, Father Mathew, was at the convent
in old Friars Street and in the early morn-
ing he repaired thither with good intent
to ask advice. In his long colloquoy with
the good, kind Father he unbosomed his
inmost theughts and feelings concerning
his brother’s wife. “I was convinced
when I first beheld her that she was to
be the ruling star of my destiny, I knew
nothing of her antecedents, nor of her
circumstances or position in society, ex-
cept that she had a charm about her that
fascinated me irrisistibly, and that she
filled my heart and soul to overflowing
with joy inexpressible. This is the rare
power and virtue of true purity and ex-
cellence in woman. Is it not so, Father
Mathew?” Horace Brandon looked ap-
pealingly to his advisor for an answer to
his question, but when there was no re-
sponse he plied him with another more
difficult still, as children often will.
Have you never been in love yourself,
Father Mathew? Don’t you know what
it is?”
	Father Mathew buried his head in his
hands and in a quivering voice said,
“Horace, my boy, no one has ever put
such a question to me, but I’ll be honest
with you now you have spoken; I loyed a
	(Continued on page 47.)


[Column 1]
	A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	(Continued from page 43.)
girl too, beautiful and true, and like your
Geraldine, she was betrothed to another,
a dear friend, a college chum of mine,
they were wed, and she died soon after;
and shall I tell you that is why I entered
the Holy Order in the Church, and
strange indeed it is that you should come
to me, the girl I loved and would have
wed was Geraldine Wesley’s mother.”
	Before the young man had left the con-
vent, he had told the good Father,
who now seemed nearer to him than be-
fore, the offer he intended to make to
Geraldine, his brother’s widow. “I shall
urge her to marry me straightway, and
take her away to the old home in Lincoln-
shire, if it is not too much encumbered
with mortgages. I have some idea of the
place and its surroundings and what will
be needed. and I have a strong attach-
ment to the forests and parks, as I re-
member them in my boyhood, the house
in London if I could purchase it would
bring up too many sad memories for Ger-
aldine, it was there the first years of her
married life were passed. I go now to
meet my fate, confident I shall win, and
if I am fortunate in my hasty wooing, we
will drive here for you, dear Father
Mathew, to solemnize the marriage.
Au Revoir.” And so they parted after
clasping each other’s hands at the convent
gate.
	Horace Brandon hastened to the Banks
to make hurried preparations for depart-
ure, and after taking a plain dinner
wended his way to the abode of his
sister-in-law. Bettie, as though anticipat-
ing his coming, beamed with smiles
when she admitted him, and he was soon
in the presence of the one beloved and
her little flock of children, to whom he
was “the rich uncle from far away,” of
whom they had been told. They climbed
about him joyously, telling him of the
beautiful presents that Santa Claus had
brought, not forgetting the stories their
mamma had told them of the “Babe of
Bethlehem.”
	“My little girls, would you like me to
tell your mamma a beautiful fairy tale?”
said their uncle.
	“Yes, O yes!” the little ones shouted.
“Do, do! Mamma tells us fairy stories
wheu she is not too tired, pretty ones,
too.”
	“Now you run away and tell Bettie to

[Column 2]
give your mamma some tea, and while
she is taking it I’ll tell her the best
Christmas story that ever was told.”
	The tea was forthcoming and Horace
prefaced his love story by saying “it was
as old as time itself, and always new in
every individual case, he had always
loved the beautiful in nature, art, poetry,
music and women; he had only seen one
woman above all others that had been
enshrined in his heart since he met her,
seven years before; he had begged her
picture from a friend of her’s and taken
it with him when he left home, and car-
ried it next his heart in all his wander-
ings, his visions of her when alone at
night time, or when in the far-off, lonely
places, wherever he might be, he could
always see the face of this fairy creature,
it was more to him than all the world;
now, little girls, would you like to see the
picture?”
	All at once cried “Yes, yes, show us
the picture!”
	He drew from his inside pocket a velvet
case enclosing a small medalion of Ger-
aldine Wesley, and Jennie cried, “My
mamma, my pretty mamma? Where did
you get it?”
	Embarrassed beyond speech, Mrs. Bran-
don rose to leave the room, but with a
courage born of his heroic love, deter-
mined to stake all “at one fell stroke,”
he took her in his arms, and there, in the
presence of the three little witnesses car-
essed her as he would a child. There
was no mistaking his meaning, as he
plead for an immediate marriage, and as-
sured her every preparation had been
made. She did not make any pretence
of mistaking his avowal of love, but felt it
was too hasty, yet there were none to criti-
cise, and his plea to get away from Lon-
don, and breathe the country air, not
only for himself but for the little ones,
overcame all her scruples.
	The picture you were painting must be
dispatched to Lady Maynard with a mes-
sage; and the household goods packed off
to the nearest dealer in second hand arti-
cles.”
	Geraldine had no valuables to speak of,
so a few short hours sufficed to complete
the arrangements; the landlady was paid
a month’s rent in advance, and by five
o’clock all was done, the carriage was at
the door and a trap for Bettie and the
man-servant, Horace had brought over
from India, with the few packages, boxes,
etc., trunks were strapped to the four-
wheeler and Geraldine, without one iota
of regret, left the miserable lodgings in
Putney Row. They drove to the convent
and when admitted Father Mathew man-
ifested not the least surprise. In the
simple little chapel of the convent the
ceremony was performed with a few
priests for witnesses, and the two Sisters
of Mercy who had called on Mrs. Bran-
don on that memorable Christmas Eve
the day before.
	All this time Bettie was in a state of
great exaltation, for her dream had come
true and proud she was to know that her
mistress had consented to leave dirty
London. These were the days of slow
travel and poor accomodations at wayside
inns and hostelries, comparatively speak-
ing, and the journey that could now be
taken in a day or so occupied weeks. To
the newly married, little annoyances are
but trifles, and the travelers reached the
old Manor in Lincolnshire where Horace

[Column 3]
and his brother were born, and his father
and grandfather and other members of
the family before him, and found less in-
convenience of mortgages than he had
anticipated. An uncle of his was in
possession, not a Brandon, but married
to one. He was eager to get rid of the
obligations and see the old place repaired
and restored to one of the family name.
Pride of inheritance is a strong character-
stic in these old landowners, and their
descendants on this side of the water are
equally tenacious in this respect.
	To make a long story short, Horace in
the long winter evenings related to his
bride the story of Father Mathew’s at-
tachment to her mother, and she explained
something of her own early life when her
father was the Vicar of St. Budolph in
Lincolnshire, and how happy she had
been in that more simple life before her
aunt had brought her out in society and
she had been betrothed and afterwards
the wife of his elder brother. “We shall
be happy here, I know, it is not so far
from my old home, and I love the woods
and fields of Lincolnshire.	E. B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]con

Salt Lake City, Utah, 		-		JANUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
		HOLIDAY TIME.
	The Holiday season this year was in
many respects a very joyous one to the
people in these mountain vales; affairs in
general were never at any time more
prosperous; an almost universal feeling of
good will prevailed, and a sort of fellow-
ship, generous and kindly, and the liberali-
ty of presents, gifts and entertainments,
was unprecedented. Perhaps there was
in some ways an extravagance, but on the
whole presumably moderation, if not
economy.
	The little folks at any rate have been
made very happy with Santa Claus, who
scarce misses a home in these days, where
there are children, and indeed he seldom
passes by the older grown. There seems
no end, to the variety he carries about
and distributes in his wanderings up and
down the country, in an almost marvelous
way.
	Not only did Santa Claus go about with
his trees, and dolls, and all sorts of toys,
but all the fathers and mothers, aunts
uncles and cousins were alert and active
in the like pursuits, so that every home
seemed more like a play house, then a
modern sober dwelling place; feasting
music and dancing for all who could,
or would participate, visiting and making
merry.
	Now we have come again to the soberer
days and settled down to serious work,
yet very soon St. Valentine will come
frolicing along and turning the heads of
the young folks to thoughts of love and
mating, scattering his messages here and
there; and next will be Washington’s
birthday and more flying of flags and
bunting and decorating and feasting and
so forth.
	Meantime there is much work to be
done, and it is barely possible to have too
many holidays; and there are some people
who must do a lot of hard work even in
the holiday season.
	All the feasts and gatherings of families
and neighborhoods require work, and as
Br. Heber C. Kimball used to say, “holi-
days are hollow days” and to those who
cannot enter into sports and pastimes
and recreations freely, they are hollow
too; but that is the serious side of the
subject, and there are after all so many
terrible things in this age of the fulfill-
ment of prophecy, that it may be well to
have a counteracting influence acting as
a sort of balance, just to equalize and
carry us safely through the trying scenes

[Column 2]
of the events transpiring, and about to
take place.
	At any rate we of this age can say we
do not do all the silly things they used to
do in “ye olden time,” when the misletoe
was hung up in all the houses at Christ-
mas and the young men had the privilege
of kissing the girls under it, plucking each
time a berry from the bush and not until
the berries were all gone, did the privilege
cease.
	The Christmas feasting in which all
share is one of the real blessings of that
special season; an old rhyme gives the
true spirit in brief.

	“At Christmas be merry and thankful withal,
	And feast thy poor neighbors, the great with
		the small.”

	But indeed there were many ridiculous
customs at Christmas in the olden days.
One of the ancient customs that of serv-
ing up the boar’s head on Christmas day
is still observed in the hall of Queen’s
College, Oxford. A carol is sung by the
company when it is brought in,

	Bedeck’d with bays and rosemary;
	And I pray you my masters be merry.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“The boar’s head as I understand
	Is the rarest dish in all this land
	Which is thus bedeck’d with a gay garland.”

	Then follows a pie magnificiently de-
corated with peacock’s feathers in imita-
tion of the tail of that bird covering a
large portion of the table; the pie made
of pheasants, though authoritatively it
should be made of peacock’s. This used
to be in great demand for stately enter-
tainments. Sometimes the head appeared
above the crust and the beak richly gilt;
at the other end displaying the long tail
feathers. Such pies were served at solemn
banquets of chivalry when knights-errant
pledged themselves to undertake any
perilous enterprise, whence came the an-
cient oath, “by cock and pie.”
	The peacock in these ancient days
was an important dish for the Christmas
feast and the extravagance with which this
and other dishes were prepared for the
gorgeous revels of the olden times are
scarcely creditable.
	This is only one item of the menu served
in those days of old English chivalry; but
the Puritans of New England went to the
other extreme and would not keep Christ-
mas at all. In a way they substituted
Thanksgiving although no presents were
made either then or now.


UTAH WOMEN ELECTED NOV., 1906.
	Miss Mary Ann Gunn, Parowan, coun-
ty recorder, Iron County. Miss Sadie
Foss, Farmington, county recorder, Davis
County. Miss Rachel C. Farley, Morgan,
county superintendent of public schools,
Morgan County. Miss Sarah Merrill,
Logan, county recorder, Cache County,
Rebecca Eames held the office previous
term. Miss Christina Madsen, Willard
City, county recorder, to succeed herself,
Boxelder County. Mrs. Lydia Cowley,
Richfield, county recorder, Sevier Coun-
ty. Mrs. Ida M. Wells, Moab, superin-
tendent of schools, Grand County. Mrs.
Lavinia Murdock, Heber City, county
treasurer, Wasatch County. Mrs. Jennie
Ashby, Holden, county recorder, Millard
County. Mrs. Minerva Johnson, county
recorder, Uintah County. Dem. (Have


had one woman superintendent of schools
elected by Democrats who gave excellent
satisfaction).
	Weber county has a woman auditor,
Florence O. Stanford, Ogden, elected at
the recent city election; also official court
reporter, Second Judicial District Court.
Miss Eva C. Erb, appointed by the dis-
trict judge; also the office of deputy coun-
ty clerk is held by Miss Jeannette Bing-
ham and Miss Edith Bird, and the office
of deputy county recorders, Miss Annie B.
Brown and Miss Eveline B. West. Depu-
ty city recorder, Miss Lois Wilcox. Miss
Annie Carr holds the office of assistant to
the city engineer. Miss Eleanor Hender-
shot and Miss Agnes B. Maguire are clerks
in the county assessor’s office of Weber
County.
	There are many girls employed in the
offices of both city and county during the
time when assessment rolls are made.
	Mrs. Emily Bertelson, superintendent
of schools, Piute County, and Miss Susa
J. Searle, Junction, county recorder of
Piute County., Marysvale.
	Mrs. S. J. Bryerson, Monticello, clerk
and recorder, San Juan County, has been
re-elected after having held office six
years; she was first elected in 1900 to the
office of county treasurer, and this will be
her third term as county clerk and re-
corder. Mrs. Lucinda Redd, county
treasurer, and Miss Lenna Butt, county
superintendent of schools, San Juan
County. Miss Dorothy Wilson. Ran-
dolph, county recorder of Rich County.
Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson, Beaver City,
county recorder, Beaver County.


A VERY PRETTY WEDDING.
	We are sorry to be so late in chroni-
cling the marriage of our dear young
friend, Miss Priscilla Smith of this city,
to Elder George S. Taylor, of Provo.
The ceremony took place in the Salt Lake
Temple at high noon on October 25th,
1906, Apostle John Henry Smith, the
bride’s brother, officiating. In the even-
ing a reception was given at the resi-
dence of the bride’s sister. the home of
State Senator and Mrs. Wm. N. Wil-
liams. The parlor and dining room were
artistically decorated in floral designs
with a profusion of green vines and col-
ored ribbons, making a very pretty effect,
and the bride modestly attired in a sim-
ple white gown, carried an elegant bou-
quet of bride’s roses and looked very
sweet and charming. The whole affair
was in excellent taste without any osten-
tatious display or stiffness, which often
spoils, in a sense, the true spirit of such
happy occasions. There was a houseful
of guests, and some of them in evening
costume very handsomely attired. The
mother of the bride, Mrs. Susan W. Smith
and the Senior Mother in the family re-
lation, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, were
among the most distinguished guests
present.
	There was music and feasting and
wedding cake galore, distributed by sweet
little girls. Among the younger people
we must enter in our list the Sunshine
and Shakespeare Clubs, girls and boys
(most of them married) who were appar-
ently as happy as if it was their own
wedding party. There was a variety of
very useful and beautiful wedding pres-


ents, but we were much more interested
in the bride and groom than in the pres-
ents, therefore cannot name them nor
yet the donors.
	Miss Priscilla Smith’s is the first mar-
riage from the missionary workers of the
General Relief Society, and members of
the Board all join in congratulations,
wishing all the joy and happiness possible
and praying for the welfare and prosper-
ity of both Brother and Sister George S.
Taylor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTE.
	On account of our having so many articles
that seemed imperative, and having this time
the Christmas Story which takes so much of
the space, therefore we have been obliged to
leave over Sister M. A. Winter’s article to the
“Sisters of the Relief Society,” and the con-
tinuation of the “Trip to England, R. S. re-
port of Box Elder Stake and “Sketch of
Lucretia Mott.” We trust the sisters will ex-
cuse the delay in issuing the paper which was
positively unavoidable for several reasons,
that we cannot very well explain in public
print.

	The assembling of the Legislators of Utah
this year is of considerable significance to the
women of this state, and as there are bills and
measures pending of vital interest to the wel-
fare of women citizens, they should study some
of these questions and if possible exert
an influence with members on the Com-
mittees that have these important matters
in hand. It is greatly Io be regrett d that in
a state where women have equal privileges
with men, there was no woman nominated for
the present Legislature, nor has there been so
far as we are aware, any courtesy extended to
the ladies of the city. 
	“All Aboard for Vermont” was the un-
ique heading of an invitation to attend a
gathering in the Lion House on January
1, 1907. Snow had fallen heavily but the
guests came and the festivities began on
time. The pairing of guests by means of
cards cut in a peculiar shape to fit into
each other was the curious method by
which the partner was found, and the
process of hunting was very amusing, at
last however all were paired off and were
summoned to the banqueting hall up
stairs. where tables were arranged and
when the guests were seated; the blessing
was asked by President F. M. Lyman.
To give the elaborate menu would be next
to impossible, but there was chicken pie,
pumpkin and mince pie, and many dain-
ties, as well as fruits, nuts, and candies.
In the parlor of the dear old Lion House
after the feast, there were games and
conversation and then the guests were
called up stairs again where there was a
Xmas tree and presents on it for all the
Vermont party; and Sister Susa Y. Gates
made a bright little speech as each one’s
name was called, and there were remarks
by seyeral of the distinguished party who
had been the guests of President Jos. F.
Smith on that memorable trip to Vermont.
The committee to whom the thanks of
the guests are due for this delightful en-

[Column 2]
tertainment were Susa Young Gates, Ida
B. Smith, Ina C. Smith, Edith A. Smith,
Alice A. Richards. It was certainly one
of the most enjoyable gatherings we have
ever attended.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers have
been doing such extraordinary things in
the way of unique entertainments, that
one cannot keep up with all their achieve-
ments especially of late during the holi-
days. The Pioneer Reunion to celebrate
laying of the new rag carpet on the
the floor of the relic room was made
quite a festive occasion, after five min-
utes speeches by Sisters B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, L. W. Smith and Alice K.
Smith, on old customs and what the
pioneer mothers had to do in earlier days
and spoke of the Daughters and Grand-
daughters. Elder O. F. Whitney made a
very interesting speech on historical
items and instances, and the First Presi-
dency having come in were urged to
speak each one in turn giving a few facts
of unique history, President J. R.
Winder’s remark’s being rather pathetic,
his life so unlike that of most of the fore-
most men in the Church standing
as it were alone, and yet firm as the tow-
ering mountains about our beautiful
vales, his kindred having none of them
embraced the faith for which he has
stood as as a valiant example. President
A. H. Lund spoke briefly, and in a most
entertaining way of his native land and
early life, and President Joseph F. Smith
gave us in his graphic style some of his
early boyhood experiences that never fail
to elicit the admiration of all who listen.
Afterwards the supper of doughnuts,
pumpkin pie, brown bread and butter,
salt rising bread too, and composition
tea were served by the Daughters and
all enjoyed these plain, simple, old-time
delicacies. A genial spirit of fraternity
pervaded the party, one and all and the
wish was expressed that others entitled
might come and enjoy the freedom and
listen to the reminiscences of early days
and learn how the fathers and mothers
endured the struggles encountered in set-
tling these barren wastes.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STARE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held Saturday, Deeember 8,
1906, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. After the preliminary exercises,
some of the wards were called on for
brief reports, which were given that our
visiting sisters. E. B. Wells, General Sec-
retary, and Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, of the General Society, might know
what we were doing.
	Sister Wells was the first speaker. Sis-
ter Cannon then presented Sister Dusen-
berry to the congregation, who gave us a
most interesting address on “Child Cul-
ture.” Mothers were exhorted to lead
lives of truthfulness, as every act has
more or less influence on the child. The
speaker touchingly pictured the child life
at home, and the purity and simplicity of
her mother. The necessity of correcting
the early tendency of children to acts of
dishonesty was imperative, and the effects
in after life were plainly demonstrated.
We are dishonest if we idle our time

[Column 2]
away, and a simple little kindergarten
story told how the child was impressed to
take care of the minutes. Eternal right
should stand out in our efforts to train
and correct our children. Let the ration-
al punishment come to them—they re-
quire it. Teach them and show what there
is to be grateful for, and to give thanks to
our Father in heaven. A beautiful little
poem was an appropriate ending to the
address.
	The time having expired, we adjourned
until 2 o’clock by singing and benediction.
Luncheon was served during the noon
hour in the Relief Society hall in the stake
building.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2
o’clock with the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters and
reported a number of matters of busi-
ness that were to be attended to. She
had in mind for some time the need of
a Relief Society library, and wished to
found a Stake Relief Society library to-
day. and presented several volumes, most-
ly lives and histories of great women who
had done philanthropic and charitable or-
ganized work. She realized these books
would be useful in the outline of the year.
Three more officers were needed in the
stake work, and the names of Lily Foster
Sperry recording secretary, and Sister
Eva Robinson organist, and Lilian Lam-
bert Woodbury librarian, were presented
and sustained. Sisters Rosina Lambert,
Sarah A. Davey and Jeanette Littley were
sustained as stake missionaries.
	Sister Cannon presented the outline for
the coming year to the congregation and
instructed the sisters to prepare the first
lecture for their first meeting in January,
1907. “The noted women of our day
is the subject; great interest was mani-
fested by the officers, and a highly in-
structive and most enjoyable year is
promised through this line of work. Great
praise is due President Cannon for the
able manner in which the outline is por-
trayed—it met with the hearty approval
of the General Board when presented to
them.
	Before hearing from our visitors, a solo
was most beautifully rendered by Sister
Mabel Poulton Kirk accompanied by Sis-
ter Eva Richardson.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon expressed
her pleasure at meeting with us and bore
a faithful testimony to the truthfulness of
this work.
	Elder Junius F. Wells said he came at
the request of his sister, President Annie
Wells Cannon, and while he couldn’t re-
call the time when he had addressed a
meeting of the sisters, he was always in-
terested in their work, and desired to
sustain and uphold our president in her
position, for he knew she was trying to
do her duty in this line. In going about
the world instances presented themselves
that strengthened his testimony. In 1886
he was priviliged while on a mission, to
meet the first Relief Society President—
Sister Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet
Joseph. During this interview the con-
versation drifted to early times, and many
incidents took on added interest when
related by her. She was in meagre cir-
cumstances, and the man who was then
her husband was very inferior and caused
the speaker in his mind to compare him
with the husband of early days. It plainly
illustrated what could come into a life


when the Spirit of the Lord had gone.
Allusion was made to the lives of the
children of the Prophet, and where the
mother did not entirely approve of what
they had done, she did not endorse the
re-organite movement. Elder Wells
urged her to consider coming to Utah,
where, he told her, many would be ready
to welcome her. His earnestness seemed
to impress her, but at the mention of
President Brigham Young’s name, all her
old-time animosity asserted itself, and she
positively declined to consider the mat-
ter. “The great work the Relief Society
is doing,” said Brother Wells, “has sus-
tained me many times, and very often I
have spoken of this organization with
pride. You are a great power, greater
perhaps than you know and when I look
upon the sisters who have grown old in
this work, I always admire them. May
the blessings of the Lord be and abide
with you is my prayer. Amen.”
	Pres. Sylvester Q.Cannon expressed the
pleasure he enjoyed whenever he met
with the sisters in Relief Society confer-
ences. It is the desire of the stake presi-
dency that the young sisters join this or-
ganization, and he believed the carrying
out of our outlines that had been pre-
sented this afternoon would create an in-
terest in this work, whereby many would
be induced to join us. Words of encour-
agement were given us,and a supplication
to our Father in heaven for His blessing
to ever be with us was earnestly sought.
	Pres. McLachlan hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be with him in the few
moments he might address us. The sub-
ject of suffrage and of the franchise that
was given to us was discussed at some
length. To those who had come here
from foreign lands who desired to make
this their home, should not fail to be nat-
uralized. Would suggest that the sisters
when visiting upon their blocks urge this
upon those who had failed to take out
their papers. The time will come when
we will need to be citizens and American
voters. This is a privilege, and we should
use it. It is desirous that our schools
should be under good management, and
if our girls fit themselves as teachers, then
they can get an appointment. If the
Latter-day Saints live their religion they
will know in and of themselves what to
do, and there will be no need to be told.
We must be humble and live obediently
to the commands the Lord has given us,
and He will bless us everlastingly. Amen.
	Sister Cannon heartily endorsed all
that had been said, and announced that
conference would adjourn until June,1907.
The cougregation sang, benediction by
Counselor Lucy S. Acomb.
			CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
							Cor. Sec.
	After the meeting the sisters were set
apart for their respective offices:
	Sister Rosina C. Lambert, missionary,
by Pres. Wm. McLachlan; Sister Sarah
A. Davey, missionary, Pres. Sylvester Q.
Cannon; Sister Lillian L. Woodbury,
stake Relief Society, librarian, Pres. Wm.
McLachlan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Fanny Crosby, the blind hymn-writer,
has just brought out her autobiographic
memories of eighty years. Her address
is 756 State street, Bridgeport, Conn.


IN MEMORIAM.
	We the sisters of the Emerson Relief Society of
the Granite Stake of Zion have been bereft of a
beloved and ever faithful sister and colaborer.
	Dear Faithful Teacher Mary Ann Coulam de-
parted this life Nov. 1906.
	In commeration of her noble example, good
works, pure and humble life undaunted energies
put forth to bless and comfort the poor, sick and
afflicted we pray that our Heavenly Father will
bless and comfort, with His Holy Spirit, Dear
Mary’s brothers, sisters and friends and help them
and us to emulate her worthy example.
	Through our heart-felt love for our dear sister
and respect for her relatives we resolve to pre[-]ent
a copy of this Memoriam to the family of the de-
ceased, to the Exponent and record on our books.
	Her exemplary life was a beacon light to all
who knew her.
	In behalf of her sisters of Emerson Ward.
					ARMEDA S. YOUNG,
								President.
					BARBARA M JONES,
					CECIY C. BARTON,
								Counselors.
					PRUDENCE BROWN,
								Secretary.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
			to the memory of
	SISTER FRANCES MCKAY SMITH,
Unanimously adopted at a meeting of the Relief
Society of the Third Ward, Liberty Stake, Salt
	Lake City, held December 6th, 1906.

	WHEREAS it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to summon our dearly beloved sister from this
sphere to a more exalted one; and as her labors in
the Relief Society as Teacher, Counselor and Pre-
sident have been such as to win the love and re-
spect of all the members of the same—
	THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that we, her sisters
of the Third Ward Re ief Society hereby express
our appreciation of her example, her labors and
her faithfulness to every trust reposed in her dur-
ing the many years of her connec[-]ion with the So-
ciety; and that we recognize in her death the de-
parture from our midst of an able, efficient and
devoted Saint, and a faithful friend, whose me-
mory will ever be cherished by us, and whose
many virtues we hope to imitate; also that we con-
dole and deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and children and grandchildren in the
loss of her loving ministrations as wife and mother.
	We further resolve to present the bereaved fa-
mily with these resolutions; also that they may be
made a part of the Relief Society record, and that
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation in that paper.
	Rest in peace, thy work is done.
	Thou hast satisfied thy friends on earth,
	Beloved si[--]er of this earthly sphere—
	Equal to thy task on all occasions,
	Rest, thy work is done.
						MARY E. IRVINE,
						MARY E. HODGSON,
						SARAH H. GIBSON.
								Commitee.


[Column 1]
	REBECCA ATWOOD WAREHAM.
	Biographical sketch of Rebecca Atwood Ware-
ham, who departed this life on Nov. 25. 1906, at
the home of her daughter in Manti, Utah. De-
ceased was born in Mansfield, Tolland County,
Connecticut, Oct 23. 1825 She came of good old
Puritan stock and possessed all the sterling quali-
ties of the typical New England woman. Intel-
ligence, thrift, industry, and rare executive abili-
ty, being prominent traits. Mrs. Wareham was
naturally spiritual minded and possessed strong
religious convictions, and when the Elders bearing
the glad message of a restored Gospel, came to
her father’s house in the Spring of 1840, she, al-
though but a child in her fifteenth year was ready
and willing to receive it. Especially so after the
miraculous healing of her elder sister who had
been afflicted with spinal disease for three years
and had been pronounced incurable by a council
of the best physicians. On the day previous to
the visit of the Elders, who told the afflicted girl,
and her family that the gifts and blessings of the
former day Gospel had been restored and that the
signs would follow those who believed, which pro-
mise was virtually verified in her case, as immedi-
ately after receiving the administration of the

[Column 2]
Elders she arose and walked out into the garden,
and the following Sabbath walked one and one
half miles to attend meeting.
	Naturally after such a wonderful manifestation
of God’s Providence the whole family received
the Gospel and began to prepare for their depar-
ture for Nauvoo. But as soon as it became known
that they had espoused the new and unpopular
faith, persecution became rife, and life-long friends,
and neighbors brought all manner of false accusa-
tions against the father of the subject of this
sketch, who was known to be a man of faultless
integrity, and strict honesty. They tried in every
way possible to defeat his efforts to dispose of his
home and other effects to obtain means for the
journey; and were so far successful in their efforts
that he only obtained a fraction of their value, the
proceeds barely sufficing for the expenses of the
journey which was accomplished in the fall of
1840; Rebecca having preceded the family to Nau-
voo several months previous. On their arrival her
parents found her dangerously ill with chills and
fever combined with black canker. Her extreme
youth (being only fourteen years of age) her lone-
liness and homesickness caused by the separation,
and, generally unhealthy conditions prevailing in
Nauvoo, together with a lack of nourishing food
all combined to bring about her illness which was
rendering her condition very critical, she being
unable to take any nourishment whatever. The
parents however having mighty faith in the Power
which had restored their first-born at once sought
the administration of the Elders in behalf of their
suffering child, and as before their prayers were
answered, and she was instantly healed and re-
ceived a testimony of the truth of the Gospel which
never left her.
	The record of her life in Nauvoo with all its
trials and privations is a matter of history differ-
ing only in minor details from the experience of
the Saints in general. After two years residence
in their new home the elder sister, who had been
so miraculously healed succumbed to an attack of
fever, superinduced by privation and over-exertion
and passed away at the age of 21 years still retain-
ing her unfaltering faith in the restored Gospel.
	In 1843 the subject of this sketch was married
in the order of Celestial marriage to Joseph W.
Cooledge who was an intimate friend of the Pro-
phet Joseph.
	In 1846 in company with her husband and his
family she left Nauvoo and after a trying journey
located in Winter Quarters where in the winter of
1848 her first child a daughter was born In
the Spring of the same year she returned to Iowa,
where she lived about five years in the vicinity of
Council Bluffs where in the fall of 1850 her son
was born.
	It was a matter of great sorrow to her, that her,
husband, absorbed in business cares, manifest-
ed no disposition to gather with the Saints. The
intervening years between 1851 and 1864 were
spent with her father’s family in Western Iowa.
	After the death of her father, her mother and
two sons, accompanied by her daughter and her
children emigrated to Utah in the Summer of
1864, locating in Manti where she has since resided.
Her mother died 26 years ago and both brothers
within the last five years. Mrs. Wareham being
the last of her father’s family. At the time of her
death she was 81 years 1 month and 2 days old.
	In February 1868 she was married to James
Wareham who was a man of mighty faith and un-
faltering zeal in the ministry of the Gospel.
	On May 11, 1868, the Relief Society was reor-
ganized in Manti, and Mrs. Wareham was chosen
to act as secretary which position she held till
1871 —Jan. 25, 1875, she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Manti which office she re-
tained till Feb. 2, 1883, when Manti was divided
in two wards she being reappointed as president
of the North Ward.
	When the Manti Temple was opened in the
Spring of 1888 she was called as a worker and
labored in that capacity continously with the ex-
ception of about four months in the winter and
spring of 1890 when she was disabled with a brok-
en limb. She was a Temple worker at the time of
her death although during the last three years of
her life the infirmities of age prevented her from
taking an active part. In 1899 she resigned her
office as president of the Relief Society but was
retained as Honorary President. She was also
President of the Sanpete County Silk Asociation
and was an enthusiastic advocate of Sericulture,
and was thorougly familiar with every phase of
that industry.
	Mrs. Wareham was a woman of rare executive
ability and exceptional housewifely skill which
enabled her to perform her public duties in a most
exemplary manner and also attend to her household
duties in a way that left nothing to be desired.
	Mrs. Wareham s home during her husband’s
life and also when a widow, was hospitable after


the most generous fashion, and nearly all the
greatest men and women of the L. D. S. Church
have been entertained in her home, where the
Spirit of God always seemed to abide.
	She also had the courage of her convictions, and
no adverse influence which could be brought to
bear would cause her to deviate from what she
considered her duty. She was an exemplary wife 
and mother, a consistent Latter-day Saint, and
had an abiding faith in the Gospel, and in the
Divine mission of the Prophet Joseph with whom
she was intimately acquainted, and for whom she
entertained the greatest love, respect and venera-
tion.
	She is survived by her daughter Mrs. Alvira
L. Cox in whose home the closing years of her life
were spent, and Mr. O. H. Cooledge of La-
Grande Oregon. She also leaves nine grandchil-
dren and five great-grandchildren.
	Funeral services were held in the Manti Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, Nov 27. The speakers all
paid glowing tributes to her blameless useful life
and sterling qualities of head and heart. She was
laid to rest in the beautiful cemetery beside her 
husband who passed away some years ago.
	Blessed are they who die in the Lord,—Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held
its annual meeting October 30, fifteen
years since its commencement, at the
home of Mrs. Emma Jensen.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, honorary president,
in the chair, by courtesy of the members.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Ellis Shipp.
	Mrs. Zina Y. Card was unanimously ac-
cepted as a member of the club.
	The following officers were elected for
the ensuing year: President, Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow; first vice president, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp; second vice president, Mrs. Maria
Francis; secretary, Mrs. Florence S. Critch-
low; treasurer, Mrs. Emma Jensen.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, in behalf of the club,
presented the retiring president, Mrs.
Emma Jensen, with a picture, represent-
ing “Study,” with her usual grace and elo-
quence.
	Mrs. E. Jensen responded with expres-
sions of love and gratitude to all the
members. Delicious refreshments were
served, and altogether a very pleasant
evening had been arranged by the hospit-
able hostess, including a number of guests,
friends and neighbors.
			MARIA FRANCIS,
				Secretary pro tem.


OUTLINE UINTAH RELIEF SOCIETY.

LECTURE 1—VENERATION FOR SACRED
		THINGS.
	(a) Proper conduct in houses of wor-
ship. (b) Respect for the sabbath,
(c) Veneration for sacred ordinances.

LECTURE 2—MOTHERS TO BE COMPAN-
		IONS.
	(a) Mothers should share the joys, sor-
rows and amusements of their children,
(b) Strive to do honor and justice to the
nature of the child.

LECTURE 3—FAITH.
	(a) What is faith? (b) On whom does
our faith rest? (c) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of action. (d) Show that it is a
principle of power. (e) Example of faith.


LECTURE 4—FAITH.
	(a) Means of acquiring. (b) Means
of increasing. (c) Means of retaining,
(d) Example of faith.

LECTURE 5—INDUSTRY.
	(a) Necessary to success, (b) How to
teach children to form habits of industry.
(c) Benefits to be derived from it.
(d) Mention some instance where a seem-
ingly impossible obstacle has been over-
come by industry.

LECTURE 6—CHARITY.
	(a) Charity suffereth long and is kind.
(b) Charity rejoices not in another’s down-
fall nor feels pain at another’s prosperity.
(c) Why should we exercise charity.

LECTURE 7—PROPERLY CONSTITUTED AU-
		THORITY.
	(a) The Church to which we belong
being the work of Christ; every mother
should show by her acts that she con-
siders it her duty to sustain all properly
constituted authority. (b) Why? (c) How?
(d) Benefits to be derived.

LECTURE 8—ERRORS TO BE AVOIDED.
	(a) Using your influence against the
authority of the Church, Stake or Ward,
whom you have by uplifted hand agreed
to sustain. (b) Unkind criticism. Im-
puting evil to actions not understood.

LECTURE 9—COURTESY,
	(a) Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each
to render proper respect to another, (b)
Wives should be courteous to their hus-
bands and children, (c) Children should
be taught to be courteous, (d) Advant-
ages to be derived.

LECTURE 10—PURITY.
	(a) The pure in heart shall see God.
(b) Pure thoughts induce pure actions.
(c) How to gain pure thoughts,

LECTURE 11—HONESTY.
	(a) If thou shalt find that which thy
neighbor has lost, thou shalt make diligent
search till thou shalt deliver it to him
again. Doc. and Cov. When children
pick up articles of value do we encourage
them to try to find the lawful owner?

LECTURE 12 — PRACTICE WHAT YOU
		PREACH.
	(a) Good intentions are worthy to be
sustained by honest persistent efforts to
carry them to efficient execution.
			ANNIE K. BARTLETT,
			SARAH A COLTON,
			RHODAS GOODRICH,
							Commitee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


Mrs. Ida H. Harper is in New York
this winter, doing research work for one
of the large magazines.


[Column 1]
THE N. W. R. S. CONVENTION.
	The convention convened Nov, 18, 1906,
and held two sessions, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.
m., at Flamm’s Hall, Rexburg, Idaho.
	On the stand—Of the presidency of the
stake, Presidents Thomas E. Bassett, Al-
bert Heath, President Matilda Flamm,
Counselors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar
Ricks, Dr. R. B. Penrose, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, Pres. Jane
Osborne, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and Pres,
Winters, of the stake Primaries, and a
number of presidents of the Relief Society,
also Pres. Ezra Christensen of the Ricks
Academy.
	At the morning session, Pres. Flamm
gave an address of welcome in a few
choice words of encouragement, and giv-
ing a short report of the Relief Society
work for the last year. All the wards had
been visited twice, except one, a very dis-
tant one,which had been visited but once.
They found nearly all in a most flourish-
ing condition, and the workers diligent
and energetic.
	Pres. Barrett spoke in a most encour-
aging manner, commending the work of
the society and their diligence, and
blessed them in all their efforts to do good.
	Excellent papers were read by Coun-
selors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar Ricks.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke a few
words in appreciation of the excellent
work the society was doing.
	Afternoon session. At 2 p.m., though
the weather was intensely cold, and some
of the sisters had walked two miles before
daylight to catch a chance fo ride to Rex-
burg a large assembly convened,  The
afternoon services were dispensed with to
give opportunity to all to attend the con-
vention.
	After the opening exercises, Pres. Al-
bert Heath spoke some time in a most
praiseworthy manner of the work done
in the Relief Society, and reported to
their great diligence and energy in visit-
ing the branches. Said they had done
better than the brethren in this line.
	Papers of special interest were read,
notably the one by Mrs. Stevens, who was
selected as second counselor, Mrs. Ricks
resigning.
	Brother Christensen, president of Ricks
Academy, spoke many words of commen-
dation and encouragement of the work
done by the sisters In their Relef Society
labors.
	The Presidency of the Stake felt so
well pleased with the work of the Society
that they set aside the 18th of November
as a permanent date for the convention
to be held annually. Beautiul music was
rendered by the academy choir, and two
solos of fine voices were rendered during
the convention. The benediction was
given by Brother Henry Flamm. R. B. P.

		BANNOCK STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of Bannock Stake was held at Thatcher,
Idaho, November 3, 1906, Stake President
Eliza C. Hale presiding, most of the wards

[Column 2]
had a representative present, all spoke of
their desire to keep up with the other as-
sociations.
	Stake President Eliza C. Hale spoke
of the necessity of training our children
and teaching our daughters to choose
suitable companions in life, also of duties
of teachers, thought the Society would be
more successful if the teachers would do
their duty.
	Counselor Julia H. Pond. “We can
all get the spirit of our work if we will
seek the Lord and attend to our meetings,
and encourage others, visit the sick,
minister to the poor, encourage the sisters
to attend conferences, we have joy in
doing our duty”, spoke of the mothers
work.
	Counselor Louesia Corbitt spoke of
officers in all associations doing their duty.
Said we should trust in the Lord in rear-
ing our children and teach them to be
obedient to those that are placed over
them.
	The Stake presidency were present and
gave very timely advice to the sisters, en-
couraged them to keep the spirit of their
work, and God would bless them in their
desires to do good.
	We hope to continue in the work of
the Lord, and look for success in our
labors as long as we are faithful.
		CATHARINE SORENSEN,
				Secretary.


ANTHONY HOUSE BURNED.
	The early home of Susan B. Anthony
in Adams, Mass., was destroyed by fire
on Dec. 7, with a loss of about $12,000.
Part of the house was built by Miss An-
thony’s grandfather, Humphrey Anthony,
about 100 years ago, and part by his
father in-law, Joshua Tapham, 50 years
earlier. The structure was two and one-
half stories in height and contained 18
rooms. It had recently been refitted and
partly remodeled inside.
	It was owned by Mrs. Hannah Boyle
of Lake Geneva, N. Y., and Albert
Dickinson of Chicago, who bought it some
time ago on account of its historic value.
It was occupied by Charles A. Daniels
and family. The fire was caused by the
overturning of an oil-stove. The loss of
this historic building will be a cause of
regret to the friends of equal rights, all
over the country.			Ex.


CONCERNING WOMEN.
	A REVOLUTIONARY MOTHER.—Mrs. Fran-
ces Farrell, president of the Stoughton 
(Mass.) Equal Suffrage League, writes:
“I never hear women’s inability to fight
discussed, as it was yesterday, that I do
not think of an ancestress of mine, Mary
Drake by name, who belonged in Sharon,
not far from the home of Deborah Samp-
son. She defended her son’s property
when he was in the Revolutionary army
by driving from his barn with a pitchfork
a squad of British soldiers who had come
to forage. The commanding officer en-
quired her name at the next house, say-
ing, ‘If I had a regiment of such women,
I would storm hell with them!’ ”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1907. [MID-WINTER NUMBER]			No. 7


CONTENTS.
Emma Hale Smith.............................L. E. S. A.	49
Mother’s Work:—Maricopa Stake.................... 	50
	Morgan Stake.............................................	51
	San Luis Stake...........................................	52
Relief Society Report:—Box Elder Stake.........	51
Lucretia Mott.....................................................	53
In Memoriam.....................................................	54
Obituary.............................................................	54
F. Marion Crawford...................Lydia D. Alder	54
A Trip to England (Concluded)......Little Sister	55
Editorial:—The Relief Society..........................	52
	Great Events Transpiring...........................	52
Poetry:—Peace, Goodwill.....L. L. G. Richards	49
	To Aunt Em..................Josephine Spencer	51


PEACE, GOODWILL.
A kindly thought can never come in vain;
Yet thoughts soon die if left but to remain 
Unu[-]ed, inactive, clogging heart and brain;
Let me ne’er smother helpful impulse thus.
When Heavenly Father gives me generous
	thought,
Let me believe some blessing should be wrought,
For some one, somewhere; let the chance be
	sought,
And some poor, answered prayer made marvel-
	ous.

But should a thought un-Christlike and unkind,
Enter my soul, disturbing heart and mind—
Envy or selfishness, or both combined,
Such thought, or feeling, I would quickly kill.
It should not live to grow and to extend,
To make me injure or distrust a friend;
I would not voice it, all my thoughts must blend
With that blest angel chorus, Peace, Goodwill!

I love you, Dear Ones! Let my say it now.
I think of you when before Heaven I bow,
And ask that God all best things will allow
For each one’s present and eternal good.
My Dear Ones, let us in sweet union live,
Nor thoughtless speak, hearts are so sensitive;
What seems unfair let’s readily forgive,
And simply say ’twas but misunderstood.

And oh my Friends, I prize your friendship now!
I will not wait death’s touch on either brow;
If I have hurt you, kindly tell me how,
So I may prove that good was meant, not ill.
For sudden death today seems in the air,
A heart may cease it’s throbbings anywhere,
At any moment; Oh my soul prepare!
With all the world and Heaven hold Peace,
	Goodwill!
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
January 1907.


[Column 1]
		EMMA HALE SMITH.
READ AT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS’ MEET-
		ING PIONEER STAKE.
	There are many people who pass
through this life scattering rays of sun-
shine and strewing life’s pathway with
kind and thoughtful acts whose names are
seldom recorded in history.
	Among these might be recorded the
name of Emma Hale Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and first presi-
dent of the Relief Society.
	The subject of this brief sketch was
born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, Susque-
hanna County, Pennsylvania. Her
father, Isaac Hale, was a well-to-do citi-
zen of that place. Of her early life we
are left to our own imagination. The

[Column 2]
daily duties of the eldest daughter of a
family of eight were presumably hers.
	In October, 1825, a young man, Joseph
Smith came to board at the Hale home.
He had been employed by Mr. Josiah
Stoal to assist in digging for a silver mine
in that neighborhood. Mr. Stoal had de-
sired the assistance of this young man be-
cause he had heard that he had certain
means by which he could discern things
invisible to the natural eye.
	While boarding at Isaac Hale’s home,
Joseph Smith began to pay his addresses
to one of the daughters of the family.
The parents of the young lady were very
much opposed to this. They were ac-
quainted with the fact that this young
man had proclaimed to the world that he
had seen a vision, that the Father and
the Son had appeared to him, and they
ignored the statement because their be
lief was that such things were done away
with. They thought they would be dis-
graced in the eyes of their friends if their
daughter should marry such a man.
	Emma Hale was 23 years of age, and
under the law mistress of her own ac-
tions, she made her own decision in favor
of the young man whom she had learned
to respect and love. January 18, 1827,
they went to the home of Squire Tarbill,
in South Bainbridge, Chenango County,
New York, and he performed the mar-
riage ceremony for them.
	Joseph Smith had confided in his
mother in regard to this important step
in life. His mother says: “Joseph called
my husband and myself aside, and said, ‘I
have been very lonely ever since Alvin
died, and I have concluded to get mar-
ried; and if you have no objections to
my uniting myself in marriage with Miss
Emma Hale, she would be my choice in
preference to any woman I have ever
seen.’ We were pleased with this choice
and not only consented to his marrying
her, but requested him to bring her home
with him and live with us.” Consequently
after their marriage Joseph and Emma
went to Manchester, New York State,
and liyed there that season.
	From the very first, persecution was
the lot of this family. Their friends
were few, but these few were true, they
being mostly members of his, Joseph’s,
own family.
	On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints was organ-
zed with six members, Joseph Smith be-
ing the presiding elder. Emma Smith
being converted to the truth of the prin-
ciples advanced was baptized in June,
1830, but on account of persecutions by
mobs was not confirmed as a member un-
til August of the same year.
	From that time until the death of her
husband she honored him in his position
and assisted him in his great work of
ushering in the Gospel of the latter-days.
	In July, 1830, a revelation was given to
Emma Smith, through her husband, in
which the Lord told her His will in re-
gard to certain things. She was called
an Elect Lady, and her office was to

[Column 3]
comfort her husband in his afflictions,
with consoling words in the spirit of
meekness. To travel with him and be
his scribe, when he had no other; accord-
ing to the Spirit, she was to expound the
Scriptures and exhort the Church. She
was to make a selection of sacred hymns
to be used in the congregations of the
Saints, etc.
	This was a great honor to be thus re-
membered and instructed, and those who
were acquainted with her have testified
that during her husband’s lifetime she
lived up to the requirements of the reve-
lation. She was appointed, September
14, 1835, to make a selection of sacred
hymns, which duty she performed, by the
assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, to
the satisfaction of all, and up to the
present time they are rendered with feel-
ing and spirit in all the congregations of
the Saints.
	In 1833 the corner stones of the Kirt-
land Temple were laid and the dedication
of the building occurred March 27, 1836.
Sister Eliza R. Snow writes: “With very
little capital except brain, bone, and sin-
ews combined with trust in God, men,
women, and even children, worked with
their might; while the brethren labored in
their departments, the sisters were active-
ly engaged in boarding and clothing
workmen not otherwise provided for.”
Sister Emma in this trying time did her
part in this great work of rearing the first
temple built in this dispensation.
	The organization of the Female Relief
Society was commenced on the 17th of
March, 1842, and completed on the 24th,
with Emma H. Smith as President, Sarah
M. Cleveland and Elizabeth A. Whitney
Counselors, Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, and
Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer. This or-
ganization was for the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow and the orphan
and for the exercise of all benevolent
purposes. During the Missouri persecu-
tions the sisters of the Church had always
been ready to open their doors to the
weary traveler; to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their
plundered and impoverished wardrobes
divide with the more needy and destitute;
but the opportunity to do this work in an
organized capacity had up to this time
been impossible and unthought of.
	As President of this Society, Sister
Emma was looked up to with respect and
reverence. They could follow her lead-
ership without fear. Her heart was filled
with goodness and generosity, not for a
hope of reward, but for true charity and
love. To all she was kind and consider-
ate and did everything in her power to
assist in the upbuilding of the society and
the attaining of the purpose of its organ-
zation. In the organization of the
branches of the Church and the trials and
persecutions, from within and without,
that her husband was subject to, they had
many homes among them we might
mention those at Harmony, Fayette,
Kirtland, Hiram, Far West and three
at Nauvoo. She was the mother of six


[Column 1]
sons and one daughter, to them she was
ever a kind and affectionate mother and
was untiring in her efforts to enhance
their comfort and pleasure, a great por-
tion of the time having to be both father
and mother to them Besides her own
children she took a pair of twins to raise
a boy and a girl. Sister Emma had given
birth to a pair of twins on April 30, 1831,
both of whom died. The wife of John
Murdock gave birth to a pair of twins the
same day and soon after expired. Sister
Emma toook the motherless twins in the
fond hope that they would fill the void
in her life occasioned by the loss of her
own.
	When made known and explained to
her she accepted the order of celestial
marriage, and in obedience to that law
gave her husband several wives, to whom
she was ever kind and they in return
loved and respected her.
	During the dreadful scourge of sickness
at Nauvoo in the first year of the settle-
ment of that place, she was considered
an angel of mercy, she was so untiring in
her efforts to comfort the sick; and her
presence was a solace to many in their
dying hour. There were so many in dis-
tress, that the Prophet and his wife com-
menced taking the sick into their own
home, with the view of taking care of
them more comfortably. This they con-
tinued to do until their home became so
crowded that they were compelled to
spread a tent for that part of the family
who were still on their feet, in order to
make room in the house for the sick.
	Their home was ever open to the aged
and homeless, a number making it their
permanent home and they were waited
upon and cared for with the greatest of
generosity and patience.
	Sister Emma at that time was indeed
an Elect Lady, one whom everybody
loved that got acquainted with her. It is
very fitting that the Relief Society should
take time to consider and reflect upon the
history of their first president. She had
the honor of being called to that position
by the prophet himself and held the posi-
tion during his lifetime and was every way
qualified for its duties.
	In time of peril she was a wise counsel-
or to her husband: when surrounded by
persecutions and trials she was ever ready
to give comfort and consolation; she ac-
companied him on many perilous journ-
eys in the nighttime, when only the tried
and tested knew of his whereabouts or
errand.
	When occasion permitted she enter-
tained his friends with charming grace,
for she was a lovely woman and a model
hostess.
	When the news was conveyed to her
that her husband had met his death at the
hands of the mob she was overcome with
grief, but bravely bore the burden.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
and his brother, the Patriarch, the Twelve
Apostles constituted the presiding Quorum
of the Church. In 1846 Brigham Young
led the saints to the West, where they
hoped to find a home free from mob
rule.
	There seemed to come over Emma
Smith a complete change when the ar-
rangements were made for the removal
to the West. She took no interest in
them, but rather preferred to remain in
her Nauvoo home. Those things that to
her had been most sweet were now most

[Column 2]
bitter. Those people in whom she had
trusted, she confided in no more.
	Some time after the death of the
Prophet she married again, but still con-
tinued to live in what was known as the
New Mansion House until her death
which occurred April 30, 1879.
	On the slope of the hill near the old
home several members of  the family are
buried. The broad Mississippi River
flows near on its way to the sea. In a
somewhat neglected and uncared for spot
is a grave over which lies a flat stone
bearing the inscription:
		Emma Biddamon,
			Born
		July 10, 1804,
			Died
		April 30, 1879.
					L. E. S. A.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK
		MARICOPA STAKE.
Lesson 1—Life and its Responsibilities.
	Why are we here? We must someday
give an account for the way in which our
lives have been spent,

Lesson 2—Have an Aim in Life—that of
		making happy homes.
	Good cooking an important factor.
Good health another. Politeness and
courtesy at home are also important.
Count your blessings, but not your trials,
and you will find much cause for happi-
ness.

Lesson 3—Home, the Child’s World.
	Make the home beautiful. Encourage
family singing. Provide music of some
kind. Encourage the making of beauti-
ful things at home. Get tool boxes for
the boys, and make their room neat and
pretty as well as the girls’ rooms. They
will appreciate it and help to keep it nice.

Lesson 4—Nature Studies.
	Give each child a little plot of ground,
however small, and set of little garden
tools. Teach them to take proper care
of the tools, and to have a place to keep
them. Show them how to prepare a suit-
able seed bed and then teach them about
the germination and growth of the baby
plants, baby birds, etc.

Lesson 5—Our Children are Precious
		Jewels.
	A child’s right to be well born. The
duty of parents to their unborn children.
Pre-natal influencs. Loving them before-
hand. You can sometimes tell which was
an unwelcome child by its face. Too
many are “born tired.”

Lesson 6—Training our children.
	Be truthful and honest with them, al-
ways. Never deceive them to secure
obedience, or they will soon lose their
trust in you. Instruct them early as to
the sacredness of life, and the purposes
of God in allowing us to be fathers and
mothers. Make yourself a companion
and confident of your children, or they
will seek knowledge from impure sources.

Lesson 7—Story Telling a Means of Edu-
		cation.
	Overcome evil tendencies, not by pun-
ishment, but by continually directing the
child’s mind to something higher and no-
bler. As much as possible, let your sto-

[Column 2]
ries be of noble deeds and actions, and of
something that will show the folly of
wrong habits, such as selfishness, idle-
ness, wastefulness, etc.

Lesson 8—Preparation for the Future.
	We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their cloth-
ing, books, etc., away neatly, and thus
they will learn to be helpful, rather than
hindrances not only to their mother, but
to their wife when they get one; and
teach both boys and girls to use reason,
judgment and common sense in all things.

Lesson 9—Our Bodies are Temples of the
		Living God.
	Teach the children this, that they may
learn to keep them clean and pure. Teach
them the value of deep breathing, fresh
air and exercise, and of standing straight.
We are made in the image of God, and
should keep that image as perfect in form
as possible.

Lesson 10—The Sin of Gossip.
	“Judge not, that ye be not judged; for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as
wrong if we were placed in similar cir-
cumstances. Have some subject for dis-
cussion at sewing bees and work meet-
ings.

Lesson 11—Parable of the Ten Talents
		(Matt. 25: 14-30.)
	What talent do I possess, and do I cul-
tivate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness,
the power to instruct or comfort others,
or anything that helps to make life better
and brighter is talent which should be
cultivated.

Lesson 12—Place of Worship is Holy.
	Teach the children to be quiet and or-
derly in the house of God. It is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the
aisles, and for the older ones to whisper
and make a disturbance during services.
These things are displeasing to our heav-
enly Father and an offense to our friends
who visit our places of worship.
			CELIA A. SMITH,
		Cor. Secy. of Stake R. S.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There have been so many notable oc-
currences and social functions during the
midwinter season that it would be quite
impossible to mention them all, but we
hope to give at a later date something of
an idea of a few of them, However the
society columns of the daily papers have
been very generous in this respect, and it
might be almost intruding upon the rights
of these good friends to give in brief what
they have done so well. Then this little
paper does not deal much with this sort
of thing editorially, except as a matter of
history. Therefore we ask our readers
and patrons to accept this apology for not
publishing now, parties in the grand old
Lion House that must yet be written up,
because of their historic value as a part
of the woman’s side of the “Mormon”
question social religious life.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO AUNT EM.
There’s a poet who tells in delectable verse
Of the things we might part with and not be the
	worse
For the missing—his list running through the
	whole range
Of pleasures and treasures, of travel and change,
To end with a neat little rhyme of repining,
That whatever we part with—it can’t be our din-
	ing.
And his thought gave me thought inspiration to-
	day,
For the tribute we’ve gathered together to pay,
To our dear guest of honor, with heart and with
	lip.
In the viands we eat and the liquids we sip.

But not dining nor wining is that I must choose,
As the object we’d miss most if once we should
	lose.
Nor treasures of art nor of gold nor of gem,—
It’s name in our hearts is just known as “Aunt
	Em.”
For who in the years that have passed o’er us all,
Cannot in their vista her image recall?
Through scenes that have gladdened or saddened
	the days
Since the valley first dawned on the pioneers’
	gaze.
Through all their privation and hardship her hand
Was foremost to toil for the good of the land;
In the struggle for woman’s high honor alway
Her name as a beacon has lighted the way.

And over the murk of the battle has hung
Framed in laurels of pen and of deed and of
	tongue.
And not only the pathway of note and renown
Her footsteps have trodden—but better, adown
The still paths of sympathy sewn with sore hearts,
They have wandered, full oft giving balm to their
	smarts.
While her word has met young aspiration’s meek
	voicing
With hope, inspiration, and meed of rejoicing.
There are few of us here but have owed her some
	measure
Of hope, help or praise in our duty or pleasure.

So I say, in the lilt of the poet I borrow
(And I trust his dark shade may not brood here to
	sorrow,
At the poor imitation I make of his ditty)
That I cannot conceive how our state, or our city,
Our banquet halls, offices, homes or the street—
Could ever seem quite to our senses csmplete,
Could we not on the cheering conviction rely
That somewhere among them Aunt Em we should
	spy!
And since as we know, she is barely nineteen.
For years yet to come she will move in the
	scene,—
Three keen-witted years having chalked out the
	day
Of her birth, that among us she longer might stay.

So here’s to Aunt Em—with the hearts of the Club
In the liquid we drink when our glasses we rub.
May the Leap years increase,—and the almanac
	keep
A trick up its sleeve, that old Time may not reap
Her life with its scythe till he reaches the end
Of his flight—and in all of the years she may
	spend
May the Lord hold her fast in a loving caress
As we do—that’s one meaning you know of the
	“Press,”
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake was held on Tuesday,
November 13, 1906, at Brigham City
President Susannah P. Booth presiding.
Present of the stake presidency, Elder
Lucius A. Snow.
	After singing, prayer, singing again, the
roll was called, twelve branches were rep-
resented. Minutes were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Booth felt grateful to the
Lord for the privilege of attending this
conference; was thankful to see a good
attendance. Referred to the conference
at Salt Lake, the attendance there was

[Column 2]
the largest she had ever seen. Said
the present time reminded her of the
days of Nauvoo. Was thankful that she
had not lost faith. While at Salt Lake
she had the privilege of seeing the watch
that preserved the life of President Tay-
lor in Carthage jail.
	Pres. Julia Bingham reported Garland
Relief Society, where they were interest-
ed especially with the mother’s work.
Prest. Mary Fridehl of Elwood reported
that society, spoke of existing circum-
stances and of the changes made for the
winter; had 173 bushels of grain in gran-
ary: Sarah Fridehl reported the society
of Bear River City; spoke of their granary
and expenses; referred to some traveling
missionaries and of treating them kindly.
Prest. Ward of Willard felt proud to rep-
resent the sisters of Willard. Said their
attendance was 180; are building a new
granary; spoke on charity. The congre-
gation joined in singing a hymn. Prest.
Mary Tolman of Honeyville, reported
that society; said they had not many
poor, but had made quilts and carpets to
help pay for a building.
	Counselor Lucius Snow was pleased to
look into the faces of the sisters; they
were women who had passed through
many trials and hardships—the younger
people cannot appreciate what these eld-
er sisters had passed through; said he had
a great deal of respect for these sisters.
Spoke on prophecies and their fullfilment
and of the influence Sister Zina Young
had over him on account of her kindness
and her faith in God; he could not realize
it then as at the present time; no other
person impressed him as she did; spoke
of his dislike to the remark of not being
religiously inclined; made a suggeston
about lining granaries with tin.
	President Booth felt all had been blest
this morning.
	Adjourned after singing and benediction.
	Assembled at 2 p,m., President Booth
presiding.
	After the usual exercises, Prest. Love-
land of Deweyville reported that soci-
ety—34 members enrolled, average at-
tendance 20; the teachers are doing
good work, but they have no poor in their
ward, but had visited all the homes.
Prest. Hannah Harper spoke on the Word
of Wisdom; our burden is lightened when
we live our religion; referred to the
changes that had taken place since they
settled in these valleys.
	Pres. Thorne of Perry reported that
ward, also made remarks on the Word of
Wisdom. Counselor Julian Olsen of Man-
tua gave a report of their society and
excused the presidents’ absence; spoke
well of her; felt that they should all keep
the Word of Wisdom. A selection was
given by six of the sisters.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was grateful
for life in this wonderful age; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom; gave instructions
on mother’s work, said, “My whole am-
bition is to see my family good Latter-
day Saints;” she counseled the sisters not
to store poor grain and fix the granaries
so that the grain would not spoil; gave
instructions on many subjects pertaining
to the spiritual welfare of the people in
the ward. Counselor Mary Harding gave
her experience on the Word of Wisdom;
had visited Relief Society conference at
Salt Lake City; said, “Let us be kind and
helpful to one another.”

[Column 3]
	Stake Counselor Wm. B. Horsley re-
lated an incident concerning pork as diet;
spoke on apostacy and the fulfillment of
prophecy.
	Prest. Olen N. Stohl felt he was in
good company, and said, “These are
things for mothers to consider, for a
mother’s care does more for her boys than
anyone else; we cannot teach the children
things we do not practice ourselves;”
hoped that all the officers and teachers
kept the Word of Wisdom, so they could
teach it when visiting the people.
	Miss Hattie Wright gave notice of a
Young Ladies conference and invited all
the sisters.
	President Booth spoke of the time be-
ing too short for all to speak she would
like to hear; reminded the sisters of the
yearly donations.
	The conference adjourned until the sec-
ond Tuesday in June, 1907, after singing
and benediction.
				EMMA VANCE,
					Stake Secretary.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	Lesson 1. The nature of miracles.
	Lesson 2. Nature miracles.
	Lesson 3. Healing miracles.
	Lesson 4. Mind miracles and the rais-
ing of the dead. Ref. Young Woman’s
Journal, Oct. 1906.
	Lesson 5. Faith and what it is. Ref.
Doc. and Cov.
	Lesson 6. The object on which faith
rests.
	Lesson 7. Show the effect which faith
produces.
	Lesson 8. Show what connection be-
tween correct ideas of the attributes of
God, and the exercise of faith in Him un-
to eternal life. Doc. and Cov.
	(The figures in the following lessons re-
fer to chapters.)
	Lesson 9. (a) The preaching of Lehi—
his departure with his family into the
wilderness, etc.—Nephi obtains the plates
of brass—Zoram returns into wilderness.
Ref. I Nephi, 1: 5. (b) Ishmael and his
family join Lehi. Lehi’s vision. Ref. I
Nephi, 7: 10.
	Lesson 10. (a) Alma preaches at
Mulek—Alma at Ammonihah—Amulek—
Words of Amulek unto people at Am-
monihah. Ref 1 Nephi 8:12. (b) Words
of Alma unto people—Amulek and Alma
cast into prison, and afterwards delivered
by the power of God—Zeezrom is healed
and baptized. Ref. 12: 16.
	Lesson 11. (a) Benjamin, king of the
Nephites—his reign and ministry—his
vision of the angel. Ref, Mosiah 1, 2, 3.
(b) His organization of the Church of
Christ—the reign of King Mosiah II.
Ref. Mosiah 4, 5, 6. (c) The return of
Zeniff to Lehi-Nephi—the reign of his
son Noah. Ref. Mosiah, 7, 8; 9.
	Lesson 12. (a) The origin of the Jara-
dite race—Babel—the departure on the
journey to America—Great faith of the
brother of Jared concerning the two
stones. Ref. Ether 1 to 6. (b) The
journey continued—foundation of a king-
dom—early kings—the days of Imer and
Akish. (Ref. Ether 6, 7, 8, 9 )
		ELECTA E. PORTER,
		BESSIE A. PORTER,
		SARAH J. DURRANT.
					Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		FEBRUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
MARCH 17, 1842 AND 1907.
“In Faith and Hope the world may dis-
	agree.
But all Mankind’s concern is Charity.”

	The seventeenth of March is an im-
portant date to all the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints, as it marks
an epoch in their history that has been as
a guiding star to them all through the
many long years. It was this day in the
year, on Thursday, 1842, in the historic
city of Nauvoo the Beautiful, that the
great Latter-day Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, known now
throughout the world.
	Many times on the speakers’ platform
of the National Woman Suffrage Associ-
ation and the National Council of Women
Miss Susan B. Anthony has said,—The
representative from Utah can tell you.
more about the organizing of women than
any of you have ever heard; and she has
alluded in most complimentary terms to
our women being trained to speak with-
out papers, through our perfect system
of organizing and method of conducting
these affairs.
	This year of our Lord marks the sixty-
fifth round in the ladder of years, since
the day when a handful of women met
together in the Masonic Lodge Room in
Nauvoo for the purpose of being organ-
zed into a Society of which they could
only have had a very indefinite idea; but
in all probability the young Prophet
Joseph, himself, foresaw its greater de-
velopment, in the future of Zion, some-
thing of what we are aware today.
	The women who have taken part in
active service in this philanthropic move-
ment are numbered by many thousands,
and in fact thousands of members have
already passed behind the vail, and of
those who remain of the early workers
there are but very few now living; here
and there we read of some one in whose
obituary it is said, she was connected with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, but only
one is now living who was present at its
organization; our own General President
of the Relief Society of the Latter-day
Saints’ Church, and that is our beloved and
honored Elect Lady—Bathsheba W.
Smith. Sister Jane S. Richards President
of the Rebel Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion is the only other member (of that
society in Nauvoo) of whom the writer
knows. If there are any others we should

[Column 2]
be very glad to have their names sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
History records that during the two years
in Nauvoo, (before the troublous times
that caused the exodus,) the membership
increased from 18 on the day of the or-
ganization to 1,275, and therefore, it
would seem likely that some of this num-
ber might still be living.
	Volumes might be written of what has
been accomplished during the years since
that eventful day of the Society coming
into existence; and much has been done
materially as well as in many other ways.
Throughout the wards in all the Stakes,
and many of the missions of the Church
women have helped with means to build,
and furnish meeting houses, halls and
Temples. Notably the Logan Temple at
a time when work was stopped President
Jane S. Richards raised several hundred
dollars from the Relief Society in that
Stake to help continue the labor on that
sacred edifice, and it was a praiseworthy
effort.
	The sisters of the Relief Society so far
as we know are always on hand for good
works, however unpropitious the circum-
stances may seem to be; they have under-
taken to carry forward what has seemed
almost impossibilities.
	This day in the year 1907, should mark
a great forward movement for this Society
ethically, and let us all hope and believe
materially and spiritually.


[Column 1]
GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.
“Weigh well your part and do your best
Leave to your Maker all the rest.”

	Time flies so rapidly that one can
scarcely keep pace with it in any of the
walks of life, and not only time but the
material progress made in all directions
is startling to say the least, there are so
many movements springing up that it is
quite impossible to keep posted on all
that are essential to every day inter-
course with affairs. Events are hasten-
ing on as well, and it is a common say-
ing nowadays, to what does it all tend.
Surely the last days, when all things are
to be gathered into one are here. Proph-
ecies ancient and modern are being ful-
filled before our eyes, and yet men and wo-
men will not see the truth, or the signifi-
cance of these conditions that stare them
in the face.
	During the past year more great events
and perhaps even calamities have trans-
pired seemingly than in any year previ-
ous, it is said there are more people, even
so, yet there are more inventions and a
better understanding of the elements of
life, and motion and activity; but the
Lord is working among the nations and
will bring about His purposes, and He
will accomplish His designs among the
great and mighty ones of the earth, as
has been said by Him and His word is
sure. He will indeed make the weak to
confound the wise, and the wrath of man
to praise Him.
	The everlasting Gospel is spreading in
lands afar off and women too are taking
part in the establishment of truth among
the various nations. It is a satisfaction
to realize that  women can render valu-
able assistance in carrying the Gospel to
those who sit in darkness.
	It is glorious to contemplate how com-

[Column 2]
plete in every department the work of
salvation for the human family is, and
that women have part therein, even in
the Temples of the Lord. Most women
all down the ages have realized the great-
ness of motherhood, and history tells of
the greatest men who give honor to their
mothers, and we talk much and with
pride of the mothers of the race; but in
the Gospel, as revealed in this dispensa-
tion through the Prophet Joseph Smith
women have had avenues of activity and
of spiritual growth opened for them, such
as no other women at any period of time,
so far as is known, have had vouchsafed
to them.
	Are we as women of Zion aware of all
that it means to have such an organiza-
tion as the Relief Society, whereby hun-
dreds of women whose lot seemed cast in
desert places as it were, have been
cheered and enlightened through the
efforts made in coming out to meetings,
and the interchange of ideas, thought and
actual effort brought to bear reaching out
for betterment along the lines of attain-
ment; an upward tendency of the mind,
giving exhilaration to both mental and
physical progress as well as the spiritual
culture always being maintained in har-
mony with the growth of the mind and
body.
	It would be very difficult to estimate
what this one great masterful organiza-
tion has done for the women of this
Church, and not alone for them but
the whole world of mankind has been
awakened through the light revealed from
heaven and revelations given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We are undoubtedly on the verge of
greater changes, greater events, and it
may be more startling phenomena than
ever before, and the wise and great
ones should be prepared, or at least take
warning by reading with an understand-
ing heart “the signs of the times.” The
days in which we are living, great as they
are, are pregnant with greater things;
and those who acknowledge God in all
things and worship Him in sincerity and
truth with His wisdom and providence
may be able to stand, although it will re-
quire not only obedience to divine laws
but the consecration of all one’s life and
talents to His service.


MOTHER’S WORK. 
		SAN LUIS STAKE. 
	Lesson 1. Unity in the home! What 
constitutes union. Results of union. Re-
sults of disunion. Religious unity. 
	Lesson 2. Parental influence. What 
should be the condition of a woman’s
mind in pregnancy. Contentment. Self 
control. Pure and holy thoughts etc. 
Also practice the strictest honesty, truth
fulness—having also the best environ-
ments that can be given. 
	Lesson 3. Moral development. Favor-
able environments—call forth kindly emo-
tions, and suppress evil thoughts; kind 
companions do most, as love begets love. 
Cleanliness, Good literature such as Juve-
nile Instructor, Youth’s Companion, Chil-
dren’s Friend. Ref. 1st chapt. of Prophet 
Joseph Smith by his mother, Subject, 
Home influence and example. 
	Lesson 4. Social Purity: “Blessed are
the pure in heart for they shall see God,”
Matt. 5 chap. 8th verse. Give your ideas 
in regard to Juvenile parties. The neces-


sity of Theatres, dances, etc. of a moral 
and elevating nature. Mothers should be 
their children’s confident in social pas-
times. Ref. Young Womans Journal Sept. 
1904, Doc. and Cov. Sec. 42-22-26.
	Lesson 5. Hygiene: What we eat and 
drink, Water as a food, Hints about wear-
ing clothes, Sleep and how to get it, How 
to keep well. 
	Lesson 6. Preparation for marriage: 
A girl should have a physically strong and 
well developed body, A knowledge of 
the preparation for good and wholesome 
food, some knowledge of what to do in 
case of emergencies, of cleanliness and 
economy in the household, and of her 
matrimonial duties and rights, etc. Ref.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 89.
	LAURETTE M. PETERSON, 
			R. S. Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LUCRETIA MOTT.
	If Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the
mother and the organizer of the woman
suffrage movement, Lucretia Mott was its
saint and prophet. Her name should be
familiar to this generation and passed on
to the next with loving reverence. Lucre-
cretia Coffin’s ancestors were amongst the
first settlers of Nantucket Island and there
she was born January 3, 1793. Tristram
Coffin left his English home with his wife,
Dionis, and five children in 1642. Having
organized a company to purchase the is-
land of Nantucket, he moved there in
1662 and became one of its chief men.
This third son, James, was the great-
greatgrandfather of Lucretia and among
his descendants were two admirals in the
British navy.
	There was a hint of woman’s rights
early in the family, for according to an
old chronicle, Mary Coffin, who married
Nathaniel Starbuck, was a Deborah
among the population and little of mo-
ment was done without her sanction at
the town meetings, where she took an ac-
tive part. She probably carried her point
because she seemed to represent her hus-
band’s wisdom. Usually beginning her
remarks with “My husband thinks,” or
“My husband and I feel,” but the women
of Nantucket were no mean-spirited folk.
For the most part their husbands were
seafaring men and in their long absences
the wives governed the families and the
estates, and if need be took up business
to add to their incomes. An historian of
the island says: “These circumstances
give women the ability as well as the taste
for that kind of superintendency to which,
by their prudence and good management
they seem to be in general very equal.
This ripens their judgment and justly en-
titles them to a rank superior to that of
other wives.” From such stock was Ben-
jamin Franklin descended; also Anna
Gardiner, enshrined in the annals of the
woman’s suffrage cause, and Anna Fol-
ger, Lucretia Mott’s mother, who married
her old playmate, Thomas Coffin, when
she was seventeen years old, and he had
just taken command of his first ship.
They were both strong and steadfast in
character and the mother was ditinguished
for great energy and keen activity. Lu-
cretia was the second of their six chil-
dren and was therefore made helpful at
an early age. One of her duties when
she was four was to draw the chairs in to

[Column 2]
“a sociable circle” around the fireside,
and this as a feature of hospitality be-
came one of her fixed habits as stated by
her biographer.
	One of the pleasant Nantucket customs
was “the veal feast” which always fol-
lowed the killing of a calf. There was a
family reunion of two days, on the first of
which the husband’s relatives and on the
second the wife’s were invited to the
feast; while to those who were unable to
come a portion of all the good things
was carried in dishes wrapped in large
napkins which had been provided for such
occasions as part of the bridal outfit.
This was only one of the many memories
of her childhood which Lucretia carried
away with her when she was twelve years
old and the family moved to Boston. She
always cherished traditions of the island,
and “Nantucket way” was household
law.
	At the age of thirteen she and a
younger sister were sent to a Friends
boarding school at Nine Partners, New
York. In Nantucket there had been but
two churches, the Presbyterian and the
Quaker, and to the latter an ancestress
of Lucretia had been converted in 1701
and had been a “mighty instrument” to
bring others to the faith. The Coffins
showed their fidelity to their principles
when they sent two of their little ones
of such tender years a distance from
which they could not return under two
years, even for a visit. The biographer
relates that communication was so dif-
ficult in those days that a baby sister
grew to be three months old before the
little exiles knew of its existence.
	James Mott was a teacher on the boys’
side of the house, but as the boy and girl
pupils were not allowed to meet or to
speak to each other unless they were
near relatives, it was only while visit-
ing his sister Sarah that Lucretia be-
came acquainted with her future hus-
band.
	Lucretia was so admirable a pupil that
she was made assistant teacher when she
was 15, at 16 was a regular teacher, with
the full salary of $100 a year and board.
	It was at this time, to quote her own
words, “that the unequal condition of
women impressed my mind. Learning
that the charge for the tuition of girls
was the same as that for boys and that
when they became teachers women re-
ceived only half as much for their ser-
vices, the injustice of this distinction was
so apparent that I early resolved to claim
for myself all that an impartial Creator
had bestowed.”
	While fellow teachers James Mott and
Lucretia became attached to each other
and when Lucretia joined her father in
Philadelphia, whither Mr. Coffin had
moved in 1809 to take charge of a large
business, James soon followed. Having
obtained a position in the business, he
and Lucretia concluded to “pass meet-
ing.” The first step was to obtain the
written consent of the parents, for this
had to be submitted to both the men’s
meeting and the women’s meeting, in
connection with the proposals of mar-
riage which had to be signed by both
parties. Two Friends were appointed to
inquire into the man’s “clearness for mar-
riage, and the same for the woman. At
the second monthly meeting the parties
were required to be present at their re-
spective meetings, and if the committees

[Column 3]
reported that they found no obstacle to
the marriage, the young people were at
liberty to proceed. Accordingly, on April
4, 1811, Lucretia Coffin and James Mott
were married “with a gravity and weight
becoming the occasion.” At this time
Lucretia, short, slight, dark and vivacious,
was just turned 18, while James, tall,
sandy-haired, shy and serious, was 23.
	The next six years brought financial
vicissitudes. in which Lucretia Mott
helped a little in shopkeeping and later
with her cousin, Rebecca Bunker, built a
private school.
	At 25 years of age Mrs. Mott first spoke
in public by offering a prayer, but such
were her gifts that she soon became
an “acknowledged minister.” This was
before the division among the Quakers
into orthodox and Hicksite, and when she
felt compelled to join the latter it brought
her “disownment” and many trials and
persecutions.
	At about the same time the views of
James and Lucretia Mott on the slavery
question led them to agree, that it was
wrong to in any way participate in the
profits of slave labor, and Mr. Mott ac-
cordingly gave up his profitable cotton
commission business. James was a ready
writer and from his admirable letters to
his parents and others, one may note not
only the facts in their mutual lives, but
the gradual growth in their mutual views.
Their granddaughter says that what either
wrote or said was meant for both, for
their agreement was almost perfect; each
seemed the other’s complement. The
contrast was very great between Mr.
Mott’s quiet ways and his wife’s anima-
tion. She liked sometimes to rally him
a little on his taciturnity. On one occa-
sion she entered a room where he and his
brother Richard, a counterpart of him-
self, were sitting in perfect silence. Mrs.
Mott said, ‘I thought you must both be
here, it was so still.”
	It was a great innovation in the estab-
lished custom of woman’s silence when
Mrs. Mott took part in the historic con-
vention when the American Anti-Slavery
Society was organized in 1833. Thomas
Whitson, writing of this occasion, said:
	“The other speaker was a woman. I
had never before heard a woman speak
at a public meeting. She said but a few
words, but these were spoken so modest-
ly, in such sweet tones, yet so decisively,
that no one could fail to be pleased.”
	There were also in this meeting Lydia
White, Esther Moore and Sydney and
Ann Lewis, but the women were not rec-
ognized as members of the convention
and did not sign the declaration of prin-
ciples adopted. Mrs. Mott made some
suggestions which were well received, one
of which was that the two last words in
this sentence, “We may be personally
defeated, but our principles can never be,”
should be dropped, which added greatly
to the strength of the sentence. The
Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Socie-
ty was formed almost immediately after
the American Society, with Esther Moore
as president. Lucretia Mott was its
president during most of its existence.
There were many stormy scenes and
some times meetings were broken up by
rioters opposed to abolition.
		(To be Continued.)
				Woman’s Journal,
	Boston, Mass.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	On December 24th, 1906, at the age of 96 years,
Frances Russell Evans, passed away at the home
of her daughter Mrs. Ann Brown of Murray, Utah,
She was the daughter of John and Ester Russell,
was born September 16th, 1810, at East Harptree,
Somersetshire, England.
	She embraced the gospel September 1849, in
Bristol, and emigrated to Utah a widow, in 1862.
The first year after her arrival she resided in Og-
den; then she removed to South Cottonwood, where,
with the exception of a few years, which she spent
with her son, W. H. Evans, in Salina, Sevier
County, she has ever since lived. She leaves one
son, one daugh er, eighteen grand-children and
one great-grand-child.
	In her own land her heart and home was ever
open to the Elders, many of whom will doubtless
remember her hospitality at No. 2 King Street,
Bristol, which was sometimes known as the Mor-
mon Barracks, where weekly meetings were held
for many years.
	Her life has been one continual struggle, full of
trials and hardships. One son died on the plains;
a daughter was drowned shortly after their arrival
in the valley. Her other son was a soldier in the
British army; but this brave little woman determ-
ned to buy him off, that he might gather to Zion.
This she accomplished but through some mistake
he reinlisted. Again she worked by the day, often
walking from Cottonwood to the City and back
again after her 1abor, to obtain the means to again
release him. On his arrival in Utah, with one of
her grand-sons to accompany her and with a loaf
of bread tied in a handkerchief she walked to Og-
den to meet him because she could not afford to
pay her fare.
	For many years she has been blind and latterly
deaf as well, which virtually shut her out from the
world. However, all through life she carried a
cheerful countenance and a heart full of gratitude
for her blessings, and especially for the kindness
of her children. The simplest of food was all she
asked and a clean white apron was her most ela-
borate adomment.
	Her funeral services were held in the Grant
Ward, December 27th. Bishop Wm. W. Mackey
presiding. The other speakers were: Gustave Ol-
sen. Robert F. Neslen, John H. Kelson and John
G. Kelson; Sister Ruth M. Fox also spoke a few
minutes.
	At last the long journey is ended,
		The kind weary hands are at rest;
	The sad darkened vision has opened,
		On the hopes and joys of the blest.

	The tottering steps are now nimble,
		The spirit is free as the air;
	Her robes are as white as the snow-drift,
		Her countenance beaming and fair.

	All gone are the sorrows and hardships,
		The worry for something to eat;
	The sacrifice, planning, and saving
		To make the short slender threads meet.

	But sweet are the smiles of the angels,
		Who guarded her all the way through;
	Who knew of her faith; her ambition
 		That all whom she loved might be true.

	And tender the voice of the Father,
		As He said to the Registrar: “write
	Her name in the book with the great ones
		And crown her with glory and might.”
							RUTH M. FOX.


OBITUARIES. 
	Sister Rachel Mitchell Helm of Mill Creek Ward,
died at her home, October 4th, 1906, she was a
faithful member of the Relief Society and an active
worker as a teacher for many years.
	She was always firm in the principles of the
gospel, was liberal to the poor and a comfort to
those who mourn.
	Truly we miss her from onr midst. Although
her sickness has been of that nature which confined
her to home, the name of Aunt Rachel was known
far and wide and she was loved for her noble and
pure life.
	She was self-sacrificing having the manage-
ment of her family and the business of the farm
in the absence of her husband while he performed
two missions.
	By her request the Sisters held meeting at her
home when she had an opportunity of speaking
and bearing testimony to ber knowl dge of the
gospel, which she had received from her youth
having been born in the everlasting covenant.


The day before she died one of the blessings of
the gospel was attended to wherein she rejoiced
and felt comforted.
	We did not realize that her time on earth was so
short, but she died as she had lived a faithful and
true daughter of our Father in Heaven and her
reward is sure
	She was the loving wife of Brother Andrew D.
Helm and the devoted mother of five children.
Husband and four children, one son and three
daughters, survive her, and from personal knowl-
edge we feel they are striving to put in practice the
teaching of th ir departed mother.
	Sister Helm was born at Salt Lake City, July
20th, 1855. Her parents were Elder Benjamin T.
Mitchell and Lovina Mitchell
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house Saturday, October 6th, where many
relatives and friends m t to pay their last respects
to the dear departed. Bishop J. C Hamilton pre-
sided over the services. Appropriate music was
rendered by a select quartet.
	The Sister speakers were Elizabeth Snedaker.
Frances H. Hanson, Nellie S. Cornwall and Mar-
garet M. Spencer; each spoke of their love for
sister Helm.
	Several of the brethren spoke of her noble life
work and her devotion to her religion. Beautiful
floral emblems covered the casket, after the bene-
diction by Elder W. C. Winder a long line of car-
riages followed the remains to the Mill Creek
cemetery, where the grave was d[-]dicated by bishop
James C. Hamilton.
	The pallbearers were Bej. T. Helm, Rov An-
derson, Daniel Mitchell, Charles Mitchell, Edgar
Mitchell and Elmo Mitchell.


One more of our faithful sisters has been gather-
ed home, she has passed from death unto life, she
had every thing in her beau[-]iful home to make
life desirable where she lived in the midst of beau-
tiful flowers The Lord’s will be done.
	Sister Josephine Osterman-Cramer, beloved wife
of Christopher Cramer past away in her 51st year.
She was a devoted wife and mother, leaving hus-
band, four sons, and many friends to mourn her
loss
	She was a faithful member in the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, was very liberal in her dona-
tions for the poor. The day before her death she
sent a donation to the Society.
	She had been in delicate health for some time.
President Mary B. Hamilton and her aids had
visited her often when she was comforted and re-
joiced exceedingly. She was a most lovable wo-
man, a lady in every sense of the word.
	We as members of the Relief Society mourn her
loss but not without hope in a glorious future for
her, her good deeds will follow, she will meet
her reward  We also extend our sympathy to her
sorrowing relatives and friends
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house December 2nd, 1906. Bishop James
C. Hamilton presiding. Many sympathis ng rela-
tives and friends met to pay their last respec in
this life. Amongst those who spoke of her noble
life was President Mary B Ham lton, President
Anthon H. Lund and brethren who had known
her from childhood. A quartet from Salt Lake
City rendered sweet music, one of the brethren
singing the hymn “O My Father” The floral
emblems were beautiful showing the respect in
which she was held.
	After the benediction was pronounced the mourn-
ers in the eight coaches taking their place the cor-
tage took its departure for the Salt Lake City
cemetery, where the remains were laid to rest.
					FRANCES H. HANSON.
					AMELIA T. CARLISLE.


[Column 1]
		F. MARION CRAWFORD.
	F. Marion Crawford was born at the
Baths of Lucca, Italy, August 2, 1845,
son of Thomas Crawford, the American
sculptor, and nephew of Julia Ward Howe.
Was sent as a boy to St. Paul’s school,
at Concord, New Hampshire. Return-
ing to Europe he was at Cambridge Uni-
versity from 1870 to 1874, and for several
years studied philosophy and the lan-
guages at Heidleburg, the Polytechnicum
(Carlshruhe), and the university at Rome.
Visited India for the purpose of perfect-
ing his knowledge of oriental languages
and mysticism, and assumed the editor-

[Column 2]
ship of a newly established newspaper at
Allahabad, capital of the northwest prov-
inces. This venture proving unsuccess-
ful, he came to America once more, and
passed the academic year of 1880-1 at
Harvard in a course of Sanscrit and Zend,
with Prof. C. R. Lausdman, receiving a
diploma from the university. At this
period he contributed to periodicals a
number of reviews, dealing with political,
social and economic philosophy. His atten-
tion was turned to fiction by his uncle,
Mr. Samuel Ward of New York City, to
whom he related some of his experiences
in the Orient, and who advised him to
make them the basis of a novel. “Mr.
Isaacs” appeared in 1882 and was imme-
diately successful. Mr. Crawford resided
in New York City and Boston until 1884,
after which he made his home at Sorren-
to, Italy, and devoted himself entirely to
literature. His other works are Dr.
Claudius, 1883, “To Leeward,” 1883, “A
Roman Singer,” 1884; “An American Po-
litician,” 1884; “Zoraster,” 1885. Tale of a
“Lonely Parish,” 1886; Saracinesa;” 1887,
“Paul Patoff;” 1887 “With the Immort-
als,” 1888; “Saut Iloas Mazio’s Cruficix,”
1887; “Saut Iliasia;” sequel to Lauvania,
1889; “Grufrustia;” 1889. Contributed a
national hymn to the Centennial, at
Philadelphia, 1887.
	It is said that while relating some of his
experiences during his travels, his uncle ad-
vised him to write them up, get a pub-
lisher and thus turn them to account.
Mr. Crawford having had his Harvard ex-
perience, was only in his early twenties,
when the financial disasters of 1873
brought destruction to his mother’s large
fortune, thus throwing him very unex-
pectedly upon his own resources. He
launched cut into journalism, and visited
the countries of Europe, though Italy
was his home as near as he possessed one.
He strayed to India and edited a news-
paper in the land of the Hindoos. He
took pleasure in its editorial columns to
blackguard theosophy and Madam Blav-
atsky, also the doctrine of reincarnation.
	This enterprise proving unsuccessful,
he came to New York, writing his first
novel at Chister Place, then a final trip
to Italy, where he has since resided near
Sorrento, with his wife and children.
	The writer of the Saracenisca, said he
wrote a book in twenty-five days, broken
only by Sundays, of 150,000 words, and
that in his own manuscript, without the
aid of even a stenographer. This would
horrify Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, and
many others who think six months about
the right time. He says he manages it
by living in the open air, roughing it
among the mountains, and going long
trips with the sailors in their smacks.
	These three books have a charming
story running through them, making com-
plete pictures of patrician life in modern
Rome, and the economic conditions which
surround it. Beginning with Saracinesca,
through Saut Iliaco, to the just completed
Don Orsino, they detail the history of
one of the noblest and most ancient
houses of Roman nobility, namely the
“Saracinescas.”
	Almost without thinking, at the close
of reading these works we find that we
have lived, with one or two exceptions,
among the nobility, in ducal palaces, on
grand estates, and have attended “First
nights,” at Embassy balls. Being a Catho-
lic in religion, Mr. Crawford was in sym-


[Column 1]
pathy with the surroundings in Rome,
this afforded him a knowledge and an
open sesame to many things that must be
sealed books to Protestants. 
	Many of his characters are more or less
pictures of his friends. 
	These records taken together form
a brilliant and true explanation of Ro-
man society, and politics as they
existed in the last struggle of the Papal
power for supremacy. The first of the
series introduces us on the scene of that
conflict in the year 1865, when the great
Cardinal Antonelli and the Holy Office
were still all powerful in Rome, in the
exercise of their rights of espionage, when
says Mr. Crawford, the Second Empire
was in its glory. Mr. Emile Zola had
not written his “Assomeir,” Count Bis-
marck had just triumphed in his mon-
archy, Sadiwa and Sedan yet unfought,
Garabaldi had won Naples and had Cavnor
had said, “If we did for ourselves what we
did for Italy, we would be great scoun-
drels.” In the year 1865 people crossed
the Alps in carriages, and the Suez Canal
had not yet been opened; the first At-
lantic cable had not been laid, Pius X
reigned as the Holy See, Louis Napoleon
was the idol of the French, President
Lincoln had not been murdered—is any-
thing more needed to separate those
days from these?
	The estates in the country are pic-
turesque, with their great castles dating
back to the Dark Ages, and their feudal
laws. One American critic has said,
“Mr. Crawford has written the best and
the worst American novels, and they were
the “Saracinesca” and “An Ameri-
can Politician;” whether true or not,
he is certainly very dashing in style,
in method subject to no school, but show-
ing a most remarkable, romantic heritage. 
He is dignified as a lover, of which he
writes a generous share. Languages were
his passion at school, and what was his
surprise to read one of his own stories in
a Russian publication, and he says he en-
joyed it, too. At another time one ap-
peared in the Danish dialect, yet they
were published without his knowledge or
permission. They are read in almost all
European languages. He has produced
eighteen novels in ten years. He has a
natural eloquence and facility, which en-
ables him to write rapidly, his sentences
requiring but little revision. His periods
are pointed and brilliant, and have much
grace of rhythm. For instance, the fol-
lowing sketch of a valley in the lower
Himalayas: “The gulf that divides you
from the distant mountain, rises like a
huge bite, taken bodily out of the world
by some voracious god; far away rise
snow peaks, such as were not dreamed of
in your Swiss town; the bottomless val-
ley at your feet is misty and gloomy, with
blackness, streaked with mist, while the
peaks above shoot gladly to the sun,
and catch his broad side rays, like ma-
jestic white standards. Between you, as
you stand cautiously against the hill be-
hind you, and the wonderful background
far away in front, sails a strange vision,
scarcely moving, yet not still. A great
gold shield, sails steadily in vast circles,
sending back the sunlight in ivory
tints of burnished gold. The golden
eagle of the Himalayas, hangs in mid air,
a spot of polished metal to the eye, paus-
ing some time in the full blaze of reflec-
tion, as ages ago the sun and the moon
[-]tood still in the valley of the “Aialon,”

[Column 2]
too magnificent for description as he is too
dazzling to look at.”
	Of Mr. Crawford it may be said, some
of his observations, are so shrewd and
well said that they may almost rank as
aphorisms; for example: “Women like to
be understood before they speak, and the
grosser intellect of man, seldom more
than half understands them when they
have spoken.”
	“Can it be hard, he says, to get a wo-
man’s love,” then changes presently and
says, “Truly it is less easy than is supposed,
for the heart of a woman who does not
love, is like a desert, when the wind blows
over it, and there are neither tracks nor
land marks. And I am wandering in the
desert like a man seeking lost camels.”
From the story of “Khalea.”
	“What is a beautiful woman without
love?” he asks. 
	“She is like a garden wherein are all
kinds of rare flowers and much grass, and
deep shade, but in which a man cannot
live, because nothing grows there which
he can eat when he is hungry.”
	Sometimes he is good in dialogue, but
sometimes weak. By some authors he is
thought to be the most versatile and
vivacious of modern writers. 
	He is an American though born on
Italian soil. Any critical estimate of Mr.
Crawford’s rank, depends much on the 
cast of mind of the reader. 
	A polished man of the world his writ-
ings are free from jarring notes. His
style has personal quality and he possesses
the gift of throwing a romantic halo
around his personages, their speech is
crisp and bright, developing character
without strain or undue effort at wit. 
	Mr. Crawford must take a high rank
among modern novelists. He excels in
his description of the human heart. His
great breadth of view, keen intuitions
and artistic feelings, making his works of
interest and value, perfectly pure, with-
out taint of vulgarity or coarseness. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
			(Concluded.)
	Leaving Guernsey for Southampton,
thence to London to visit my husband’s
relatives, not having heard of them for
some time, we had a little hunting to do;
however we found a niece in Angerly
Road, Upper Norwood, Surrey, near the
Crystal Palace. They were both suprised
and overjoyed on seeing us, and we had
to stay there and partake of their hospital-
ity, then they took us to Poplar, where
my husband found a sister and a brother,
who treated us equally well, and two
more sisters in Gravesend. Here, as at
the other places, we had to rest awhile.
Our sister and her husband took us some-
where every day. One of the grandest
sights was the Resherville gardens. Every
night there are performers acting, but the
illuminations were so grand and flowers so
artistically arranged, it is claimed these
are the most beautiful gardens in the
world. I think it was in 1904 that the
Duchess of Albany was invited to visit
these gardens. The gardener had so
planted the flowers in their variety of
colors in such a way as to read, “Wel-
come to the Duchess of Albany.” It is
needless to say that she was highly de-
lighted. Then we went to Mill Park. I
thought what a nice place for a picnic.

[Column 2]
St. George’s Church is here at Graves-
end, where Pocahontas was buried; you
know she came to England and embraced
Christianity, and married Thomas Wolfe.
She was received by Queen Anne, wife of
James the first. A small monument
erected to her memory is here, bearing
the date March 26, 1617. Well the sights
are too numerous to give in detail, and
then there are the chalk mines. I do not
wish to tire the readers of the Exponent
so we will leave our friends at Gravesend
for a while and take the train for Chat-
ham, where we have another brother
and nephews.
	Here exists a little band of Saints, very
small; the first we saw was Elder Orlando
Bateman and Elder Jno. Saville his part-
ner. They were holding afternoon meet-
ing at 136 High St. at Brother Abery’s
house, though they had just commenced
to hire a school hall, where we took our
brother-in-law and nephews to hear our
Elders preach. When I saw and heard
these young men standing in the hall ex-
plaining the principles of the Gospel, I
thought how proud their mothers would
be if they could only peep in just then.
The congregation was composed mostly
of children, but the seed sown in these
young minds may sprout, and who knows
what the harvest will be after many
days.
	While visiting our brother and family
at this place, we visited the hospital.
This hospital is a sample of many in Eng-
land. This building was erected and en-
dowed by a generous donation, then after-
wards is kept up by the working men’s
subscriptions which they pay as regularly
and as systematically as they receive their
wages, and for every guinea they sub-
scribe they are privileged to give a recom-
mend to one inside patient or two outside
patients, for one treatment. These rec-
ommends are sometimes given to non-
residents and to those who are out of
work or cannot afford to pay for advice
that they may receive either surgical aid
or medicine. Before leaving Chatham our
brother Harry and wife took us to
Rochester Park and church yard, there
we saw some lovely flowers and shrubs.
While we were passing the Rochester
Cathedral it was evident that an official
marriage ceremony was about to take
place, as the gentlemen were all dressed
in full uniform and they did look grand.
While here at Chatham, or close by, we
walked down to see the Jezreelite tower,
or temple. This building is constructed
of iron and brick and was designed by its
founder to shelter the lady of the faithful
when the world was to come to an end.
But the work did not progress beyond
the fifth floor, after 44,000 pounds had
been expended, the finances came to an
end and the structure was seized by the
contractors under the order of the court;
the last we heard of it was that it had
been turned into a warehouse.
	Then we run up to Gravesend to take a
peep at the good folks, then go on to Pop-
lar, called at a photographer’s art gallery,
had quite a conversation with him; he
belonged to a physical culture society, did
not drink stimulants nor tea or coffee.
When some people up here refuse these
beverages they are told, “Well, you must
be very religious.” A young man living
in Teton Basin, and who staid all night
at our place, once said his mother was
very religious, she would not drink tea or
coffee, I told him here were infi-


[Column 1]
dels and people not professing any relig-
ion who will not touch these drinks sim-
ply because they found them to be hurt-
ful to the body. Some quit drinking them
by taking advice from their physicians
and when the Lord inspires his servants to
tell us they are not good, certainly we
ought to believe them.
	When you are at Poplar and you are
walking from East India Duke Road to-
wards Manchester Road you meet a num-
ber of people about 5 o’clock or a little
later coming from work. They are near-
ly all girls and women who work in fac-
tories. There is a match factory here and
a rope factory and others. We will not
tire our readers about all we see in Poplar,
we will leave Poplar and visit a niece in
West Kensington, West London, but be-
fore getting there we must not forget the
tube at Poplar and Subway our sister and
her husband took us through the tube or
subway. This is a very long tunnel dug
and built up with brick in arched shape
under the River Thames; you can hardly
believe when you are walking in these
tunnels that the river is flowing above
you; but I fancy some one is asking how
do you get down in these tunnels? Well
they let you down by an elevator, called
a lift in England; when you get to the
other end of the tunnel you find another
lift, this time you are lifted up instead of
being let down. Our brother, Thomas
Miskin lives here at Poplar, he and his
family were very entertaining, we spent
several evenings listening to their music
and singing.
	Well we will not go to Crisp Street
Market tonight; we will take a train or
underground train, which is run by elec-
tricity, they call these trains an American
invention and while we are visiting our
niece in West Kensington we go in this
underground train to Museum Station
then we go to the British Museum. It
will take too long to tell all we saw there
and we did not see half. We were three
days however at the reading room: you
have to get a recommend to go to the
reading room, and what a large room, so
spacious, so great, so complete, hundreds
go there and sit from day to day reading
and writing with no fear of being dis-
turbed. Another day we went to West
Kensington’s natural history Museum
where we saw all kinds of stuffed animals,
some wonderfully large, others very, very
small. We spent all day looking at many
curiosities, and then we did not see near
all there was. However another time we
went to Madame Trossou’s waxworks, how
real, how true like mankind this work of
art indicates nature. Then we go to the
big wheel, you can get a beautiful view of
the city in the wheel which is so large
you can scarcely feel the motion. Then
there are all the sights of Earl’s Court,
the diver with his diving suit, shows how
men can dive under the sea for lost treas-
ures then there is the flying machine
boats, I could not be persuaded to take a
ride up there, too high up in the world
for me; then the giddiness I would exper-

[Column 2]
ience when the boats go so swift, round
and round, up in the air. No thank you,
I will not accept a ride up there, I noticed
thercountenances of those who came
down was anything but pleasant, and I
never knew any one to take a second ride
up there, one was quite enough in a life-
time.
	Sunday comes and we take the train
and visit headquarters, 37 Farleigh Road,
Stoke Newnington, London. At the first
of the month we find quite a number of
noble young men gathered, perhaps to re-
port and receive instructions. Brother
Hoops, who is presiding, introduces us to
Brother Young; this young man is a
grandson of that great prophet who led
the Saints up to this Rocky Mountain
country, showed the people how to exist
and work in such a way that they would
not starve in this new country, taught
them how they could live happily with
the blessings of the Lord. We were also
introduced to one of President Joseph F.
Smith’s sons, who was there on a mission,
Brother Booth and many others whose
names I cannot recall just now. We
went with them to Finsbury Hall to thei
Sunday night meeting, where we had the
pleasure of hearing Sister Nannie Tout
sing, as also her sisters and father. The
Holy Spirit was there manifested. the
same Gospel preached as at home. May
the Lord bless these missionaries, I know
He will.
	Next day we run back to Poplar to con-
tinue with our genealogical work. When
Saturday comes our sister and her hus-
band take us to Crisp Street Market, here
are stands inside and outside, where you
can buy anything and everything to keep
house with and furnish a good table: fresh
fish, all kinds of fresh meats and mer-
chandise of every description, and if you
wish to go on further, you will find your-
self in Petticoat Lane. Most of the vend-
ers here are Jews and nearly all of them
women. People say they are tricky, and
if the story I heard is true, they must be,
These second hand goods very likely are
clothes pawned by people out of work;
some sell them for drink, others when
they gamble too heavy are obliged to part
with these things to save themselves from
starving or to pay their rent.
	Well we are getting ready to return
home hunting through Woolwich and
Greenwich for genealogy, also visiting the
Miskins at 1100, who, though not closely
related, treated us very kindly.
	I believe the time is coming when we
as a people will be better understood and
therefore will be treated better; but I sup-
pose there will always be misunderstand-
ings even amongst ourselves. I will just
mention a little instance. A sister went
to Salt Lake to do work in the temple
and visit relatives, and happened to ex-
press a wish to see an Elder and his wife,
whom she had known before coming to
the mountains, another sister volunteered
to drive her up to see these friends. But
time passed and when she was near ready
to return home she reminded the sister of

[Column 3]
her promise, when a niece exclaimed,
“You people out in the world fall in love
with our Elders sometimes.” She was
rather taken back at this remark, and
thought perhaps her motive was misunder-
stood, so she returned home without tak-
ing this visit to the lady missionary to
whom she had felt drawn towards for her
lady-like ways, her dignified appearance,
and quiet disposition; but she thought,
“Never mind, that will not prevent us
from appreciating those who brought us
the Gospel, we will always revere, not
only one but all who point to us the way
to eternal life.
	Now we are home again taking up
the duties of every day life. The prom-
ises that were given us in our parting
blessing, that we would allay prejudice
and return home in better health, have
been verified.
			LITTLE SISTER.
		(Concluded.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	The annual statistical and financial re-
ports of the Relief Society for the year
1906, from January 1st to December 31st,
have not all been received. They should
all have been sent in by the 15th of Feb-
ruary to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. 
B. Wells, Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah. (Please send immediately!)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Preparations for the National Peace
Congress to be held in New York, April
14 to 17 are progressing. The Executive
Committee has held a meeting at the
City Club, New York. Prof. Samuel T. 
Dutton was chosen chairman and Prof. 
Robert E. Ely secretary. Committees
were chosen on Finance, Local Arrange-
ments, Publicity, etc. Arrangements
were made for working men’s meetings,
meetings with the Germans, Italians and
other citizens of foreign birth, with school
children and in the churches; also a Gen-
eral Advisory Committee of at least one
hundred prominent citizens, friends and
leaders of the arbitration and peace move-
ment in different parts of the country. 
	The Congress will open with a great
musical consecration service on Sunday
evening, The Executive Committee, the
Committee on Local Arrangements and
the New York Peace Society are making
a vigorous campaign of preparation for
the Congress. Sunday evening meetings
are being held in various churches, and
have been large and enthusiastic. A din-
ner was lately given to the editors of the
city by the New York Peace Society. All
interested organizations throughout the
country are urged to send a delegate or
delegates to the Congress. The N. A. 
W. S. A. has appointed Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt as its delegate.
	The National American Woman’s Suf-
frage Association assembled in its 30th
Annual Convention, in the state which 
gave Abraham Lincoln to the service of
the nation, reaffirms the principle enun-
ciated by Lincoln, who said in 1836, when
a candidate for the Illinois Legislature
“I go for all sharing the privileges of the
government who assist in bearing its bur-
dens, by no means excluding women.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MARCH, 1907.						No. 8


CONTENTS.
Beautiful Tribute to Motherhood..................
	.....................................Nephi L. Morris		57
Address......................................Mary Baxter		58
Extracts from Circular Letter of Lucie Ames
	Mead......................................................		59
Notes and News.............................................		59
Mrs. Howe and her Portrait............................	59
To the Relief Society Sisters... M. A. Winters	61
Mother’s Work:—Millard Stake.....................	61
	Big Horn Stake.......................................	62
In Memoriam..................................................	63
Relief Society Reports:—Alpine Stake..........	64
	Oneida Stake...........................................	64
Editorial:—The Women of Zion.....................	60
	The Stevens Genealogy...........................	60
	Susan and Mary Anthony........................	61
	Editorial Notes.........................................	61
Poetry:—Voices of the Wind...........................
	.................................Ellis Reynolds Ship	57
	The Fields Sublime..................................
	......................Bertha Anderson Kleinman	58
	The Ultimate Nation.................................	59


VOICES OF THE WIND.
Oh thou sighing, moaning breeze.
	Sweeping through the woody land,
Swaying grass, and graceful trees,
	Bending them with unseen hand;
Reaching e’en the ocean’s tide,
	Dashing billows mountain high,
Through the surge so deep and wide
	Waking strong convulsive sigh.

O’er the land thy might is seen,
	Desolation marks thy course,
Cities razed, and fields made clean,
	Swept from earth without remorse,
Now thy mournful monotone
	Wailing as some soul in pain,
Makes me feel a child alone
	Listening to thy solemn strain.

Whistling through the chimneys tall,
	Rattling doors, and creaking blinds,
Dashing madly ’gainst the wall, 
Oh remorseless fickle wind!
How you pierce my throbbing heart
	Wounding as with knife of steel,
Making all my pulses start
	When thy blasts I hear and feel.

In thy tempest-stricken tone
	Mournful voices greet my ears,
And my burthened spirit moans
	With the weight of by-gone years;
For my mother fond and dear
	Faded with the autumn days,
Falling with the leaves so sere
	’Neath the snow passed from our gaze.

Now while murmuring echoes ring
	’Round about my lonely bed,
Oh what memories they bring—
	Sweet beloved spirit fled!
Is there, can there ever be,
	Recompense for such a loss?
Wind again thou answerest me:
	“Where’s the crown without the cross?”
			ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP.


[Column 1]
BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO MOTHERHOOD
	Remarks by President Nephi L. Mor-
ris at the funeral services of Sister Cath-
erine Perkes McAllister in the 19th ward
Chapel, Sunday afternoon, Feb. 3rd,
1907. Stenographic report by Frank W.
Otterstrom.
	I feel, good friends, that we could well
tarry here. This is a sacred place: it is a
holy hour; it is a time when friends have
assembled in sympathy to express by their
mute presence the love and tender regard
they hold for a friend that has gone be-
fore. And here, lulled by the melody of

[Column 2]
sweet sounds, suffused in the fragrance
of flowers—which are God’s tender ex-
pressions to us—within each heart a
flower of feeling still more delicate and
beautiful. I feel that in such an assembly
we might well afford to tarry, and let the
soul of each go out and commune with its
neighbor soul. How beautiful it is to
contemplate the resignation and fortitude
exhibited by men and women of the most
exquisite sympathy, confronting one of
the greatest trials of life, the loss of a
friend, of wife, of mother. Instead of
weeping and wailing aloud as was done in
olden time, friends come together and
sing songs of praise and tenderness, and
bring floral offerings to express in the
most beautiful way possible the truest
feelings of their hearts. Grief has not
power to distress nor distract under the
spell of resignation and fortitude, which
is shown on occasions such as this. I say
how sweet it is to contemplate the holi-
ness and the sacredness of such a gather-
ing. It was not always so. When the
earth was young, before man had learned
to fortify himself against his dark foe,
these pangs of sorrow and grief were not
to be so assuaged. In those days—the
morning time of man’s experience—the
“grief-stricken and prostrated husband,
father or friend, would clothe his emaci-
pated form with a coarse garb called sack-
cloth, throw himself on the ground and
strew ashes over his body, and in the most
pitiful silence and agony would lie for
days. When the oppressive cloud of
gloom had lifted somewhat, the mourn-
ers would appear weeping and wailing,
and sorrow uncontrolled would be allowed
to surge like billows of the sea. The
splendid advancement that has been
made in respect to trials and sorrow, from
that day to this, may be appreciated on
this occasion, so beautiful, so impressive
is it. It betokens a fortitude that is God-
like.
	Man’s capacity is exhibited in his ability
to meet adversity. The human soul has
grown larger and stronger and deeper,
and its mental expanse more vast. Man
can now meet Death, and in his very
presence be resigned and steadfast in
soul. Who wrought this great miracle,
this splendid victory over human sym-
pathy and weakness, over human despair
and hopelessness? Only One in all the
world’s history proclaimed a knowledge
of the mysteries of life and death, and
over both he claimed to have absolute
power. “I have power to lay down my
life, and I have power to take it up
again.” The Scientist, Saint, and Proph-
et, who understood these great mysteries
which shroud our beginning and our end,
to Him is due the honor and praise for
this victory which has been wrought in
the human race.
	The poor Indian, when once his tapee
has been overshadowed by death, can no
longer dwell there. Taking up his wig-
wam, he moves to another place where he
may dwell and not be haunted by the evil
spirit of death, nor be disturbed by those

[Column 3]
dark fears which brood over the spot
where Death has gained a single victory.
To us the resting place of the dead is
sacred, even their presence is holy,
Thank God for such a readjustment of
the human soul to this ever constant
foe, or friend, as we may choose to deem
him.
	It is beautiful to contemplate the life of
our dear friend who has gone to her re-
ward. I sometimes feel in the presence of
a woman who has filled the full measure
of her being as a mother, and has done so
acceptably to those to whom she owed
such sacred obligations, that I stand in
the presence of the most sacred life con-
ceivable. In this life we all struggle for
the expression of that which is best in us;
and no matter where our life’s work may
be, in the shop, or on the farm, in the
marts of trade, or on the highway, in the
studio producing sculpture and paintings,
or in the seclusion of the study compos-
ing poetry, or music, our life is being ex-
pressed in every act, great or small. He
who lives life the best expresses himself
most nobly. What a beautiful expression
to life is given the mother—sublime mat-
rix of the world”—the mother of all liv-
ing. And our departed sister was a moth-
er of sons and daughters—priceless gifts
bestowed upon the world. How sublimely
is her life expressed! Need we inscribe
epitaphs to her honor? Need we speak
her praise or erect a monument to her
memory? She has reared her own monu-
ment; she has spoken her own praises bet-
ter than we can. She has written in
eternal fire and life’s blood her own epi-
taph. Behold her sons and daughters,
her true and devoted husband. These
are her kingdom; they are her life. She
dwells in them and they in her. This is
her eternal glory. We speak of the
hereafter; we are already in eternity. The
foundations of the kingdom laid by this
good woman and her noble and true com-
panion are eternal; they are not to be
dissolved, nor is the compact that holds
them together to be annulled. They are
already immortal ties.
	Of her life we might speak further, but
time restrains us. She was, like many
other women, a sufferer. It seems to me
that the apotheosis of woman is through
her suffering, and in her destined sorrows
she nearest approaches the Son of Man,
the greatest of sufferers. His life was the
sweetest that was ever lived, yet it was
the saddest life the world ever saw.
Jesus, the man of sorrows the God-man.
And He is approached, I say, more near-
ly by woman in her sufferings for others,
than by any one else. Why is it so? We
might well ask why is it that suffering
should form so great a part of our exper-
ience in this earthly existence. The
longer I live the more I am driven to the
conclusion that life is a great school of
experience, and we are sent here to learn
certain lessons. It is a compulsory sys-
tem of education, too, which is in vogue
here; there is no playing truant; each
must learn the lessons for himself. When


[Column 1]
they are learned they are not required of
us again.
	How exquisitely has God made physical
man. So sensitive, so delicately nerved
that his flesh fairly quivers with sensitive-
ness, feeling the pressure of the evening
breeze, the touch of a friend, the prick of
the thorn; susceptible almost to the un-
seen, is this physical man; and yet is he
thrown in the midst of the most cruel en-
vironments. In every hour of his life he
is threatened by foes from without
and foes from within. This man
so delicate, so sensitive, so exquisi-
tely made and vibrant with life and feel-
ing! Was it not intended that he suffer?
Pain is nature’s danger signal. We learn
by what we suffer, and when once the
child burns its little hand, it has learned
a law, and it does not need to be taught
again.
	Compared with the physical man, the
spiritual man is still more refined and deli-
cate,—so responsive, so sympathetic is
that part of man that a ohord of music
may cause the heart to well with emotion;
the smile of a friend may fill the soul with
delight, and even unseen influences are
palpable to the soul, so exquisite is its
nature. Yet God has sent that soul into
this world of woe, surrounded by a harsh
environment of evil and sin, encountered
in all their fury. And these dark powers
are permitted to make attack upon the
soul. And why? That we may gain ex-
perience and prove true to the best that
is in us. And here upon the battle ground
of mortality, that we might win glory,
honor, and eternal life. That is why we
are here; that is the philosophy of life,
as I am led to believe.
	We should assemble around the grave
and around the remains of one whose life
is closed, with these thoughts in our
minds. Here is a life that ends in a su-
perb victory; a woman who has been true
to every trust imposed upon her, true to
her own divine nature and origin—a
mother successful, a wife adored. And
as such we stand around her, as in the
presence of the holiest and the purest. May
God preserve her memory green to all of
us, and may his sustaining influence be
with those whom she leaves behind,
though it be but for a short time, as has
been said, when they shall be reunited—
not as angels, but as mother, as wife, as
friend. These ties of the family are
eternal; and they shall be renewed in
that holy relationship, just as soon as
those whom she leaves behind follow in
her path. And may God preserve them
that they may be true and faithful that
this reuniting may be a holy one, a happy
one. May peace be upon the congrega-
tion, and all who bear this sorrow. May
they be given strength to endure, and hope
and light to peer through the darkness, is
my prayer through Christ our suffering
Lord. Amen.

	Sister Catherine Perkes McAllister was
born in Liverpool, England, February 16,
1846. Came to Utah in 1861 with her
parents and family. Joined the Taber-
nacle choir in that year and continued a
member of that organization, and of the
Old Folks’ choir until her death. Be-
came the wife of Elder Duncan M. Mc-
Allister in i866. Was the mother of seven
children, two of whom died in infancy,
the others are living, respected members

[Column 2]
of the community, and there are five
grandchildren. The bereaved husband
and children are comforted by the assur-
ance the Gospel gives, that she has
earned a celestial reward.
	Poem by Sister Bertha Anderson Klein-
man. Lovingly inscribed to the memory
of her dear friend, Catherine Perkes Mc-
Callister.
		THE FIELDS SUBLIME.
“God’s acres”—what treasures are borne thro’
		your gates
	From the arms reaching out to restrain;
What rivers course silently into your gloom
	From the tears that fall daily like rain;
What mystery hangs over your harvest to be,
Yet how faint is the veil to the eyes that will see.
What promise and longings are melted to mist
	At your portals all shrouded and stern,
When the hearts that are silent pass into their
		rest,
	And the hearts that are aching return,
Yet pure and effulgent all day slanting down,
Is the light on the graves that consumes all your
		frown.
Blest fields with your seed undisturbed thro' the
		years,
	While the storms of men’s strife thunder near,
Where the voices of loved ones creep back to en-
		treat,
	And answer our longing—“Not here.”
Where over the echo of dust upon dust,
	Their anthem soars peacefully upward—“Trust,
		trust.”
Fair mounds closing over the best of our hopes,
	Your mystery can sound no despair,
In the brave souls ensheathed in the armor of
		faith,
	Who smile thro’ their tears gazing there;
For the firm hand that chastens is mighty to
		heal
And his touch is all love to the hands that will
		feel.
God’s favored are they who have treasures in
		bloom
	Mid the hush of “His acres” above,
For heaven were lonely that promised no joy
	Of reunion with those we have loved,
And deepest to wound but the strongest to save
Are the memories that cling to a precious one’s
		grave.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ADDRESS.
	BY SISTER MARY BAXTER.
	Beloved brethren, sisters and friends—
I take pleasure in assembling with you
today to celebrate the sixty-fifth anniver-
sary of the Relief Society organization
by our beloved and martyred prophet,
Joseph Smith, inspired by divine direc-
tion; and now at the present time there
are more than six hundred organizations,
and wherever there is a mission estab-
lished, there is also a Relief Society or-
ganized.
	Dear sisters, in looking back over the
pages of time we perceive that almost all
of those who were present on that mem-
orable event in Nauvoo in 1842, and many
others who have taken part in the organ-
ization since that time, have passed be-
hind the vail. It becomes us, dear sis-
ters, to pay a passing tribute to their
memories; they rest from their labor and
their reward will follow; they are only
gone before us to the spirit land—“Peace
to their ashes.”
	And again turning our thoughts back-
ward to the first organization, sixty-five

[Column 2]
years ago, let us ask the question how
much has been accomplished by the ladies
of these associations in these decades of
time? Who can tell? Echo answers—
who? What mind can comprehend, what
tongue can tell of the heights and depths
of the labors of love and the self-abnega-
tion of these sisters of charity, ministering
angels of mercy, responding to every call,
in every hour, in every season, comforting
the sick, smoothing the pillows of the
dying and gently closing their eyes in
death, and with loving hearts and gentle
hands preparing them for their last rest-
ing place, weeping with those who weep,
drying the mourner’s tears. Many of my
sisters before me today have earned the
righteous plaudit, “well done, good and
faithful” handmaid, “inasmuch as ye
have done it unto these, you have done
it unto me.” Sisters, you are not forgot-
ten—the angels are silent notes taking,
your names are recorded in the archives
of heaven.

	There are watchful eyes around us,
	That slumber not nor sleep,
	Who are never moved by envy,
	They a faithful record keep.

	Sixty-five years have passed—the fu-
ture is before us. Let us renew our dili-
gence, seek out the poor and the needy,
comfort the downcast, and raise the fall-
en; pass not by on the other side.

		“We ge our ways in earth alone,
	We hold oursalves too far from all our kind,
	Too often we are deaf to sigh and moan.
	Too often to the weak and helpless blind,
	Too often where distress and want abide,
	We turn and pass upon the other side.”

	Above all, my sisters, let us have char-
ty. “Charity suffereth long and is kind,
thinks no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity,
but rejoiceth in the truth.” My sisters,
there are volumes in these few words,and
in the practice of these virtues lies the
key to your success as officers and as
members of the Relief Society. Without
this gift we are void, our professions are
hollow, we are as the sounding brass and
the tinkling cymbal.  Charity is the love
of God. the magnetic influence of the
Holy Spirit that surpasseth all under-
standing; it is the voice of the Good
Shepherd—the sheep hear that voice and
love to follow it, even unto death, if nec-
essary. They rule the most who rule by
love.
	Sisters, do we realize the great and no-
ble calling unto which we are called; do
we understand the honor and privileges
that are bestowed upon us through the
Holy Spirit and everlasting priesthood of
God, called with a holy calling to be
the daughters and handmaids to labor in
the vineyard of our Father, even the
Eternal God. To feed the hungry, to
clothe the naked, to be eyes to the blind,
and strength to the aged and infirm, to
wash and anoint in faith believing in the
promises of the Lord, living near unto
Him at all times, that we may have the
influence of His Spirit to guide us in all
our actions.
	I know this day that we are thankful
or the Gospel revealed through our be-
loved prophet, Joseph. We are thankful
that we have been called to help to bring
to pass the redemption of the world,
and also the redemption of the dead,
Glory to God in the highest be given.
Amen.
	Relief Society, Goshen, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ULTIMATE NATION.
One Babylon, by beauty tenanted,
	In pleasures palaces and walks of pride,
Like a great scarlet flower reared her head,
	Drank in the sun and laughed, and sinned and
		died.

Where Tyre and Sidon teemed with ships aload
	The wharves are idle and the waters lone;
And to the temple that was His abode
	In vain Jerusalem recalls her own.

Brooding the bygones from her sculptured seats,
	In living rock her mighty memories hewn,
Along the Nile, wonder of water streets,
	Old fertile Egypt is a stranger’s boon.

Mark Athens, breathed upon by breath of gods,
	With bards and sages to reveal her signs,
Leap like a flame above life’s iron clods.
	To fall in ashes upon vacant shrines.

And Rome, firm founded in a wide emprise:
	Her laws and legions, her imperial goal,
Avail not when her sometime honor dies,
	Smothered in shows that kill the mounting
		soul.

Such names of pride and power have been brought
		low,
	Lapsing alike into the cavernous years;
Out of the grayness of the long ago
	Their ghosts flit homeless and we guess their
		tears.

The destiny of nations! They arise,
	Have their heyday of triumph, and in turn
Sink upon silence, and the lidless eyes
	Of fate salute them from their final urn.

How splendid-sad the story! How the gust
	And pain and bliss of living transient seem!
Cities and pomps and glories shrunk to dust,
	And all that ancient opulence a dream.

Must a majestic rhythm of rise and fall
	Conquer the people once so proud on earth?
Does man but march in circles, after all,
	Playing his curious game of death and birth?

Or shall an ultimate nation, God’s own child,
	Arise and rule, nor ever conquered be;
Untouched of time because, all undefiled,
	She makes His ways her ways eternally?
		RICHARD BURTON, in January Century.


EXTRACTS FROM CIRCULAR LETTER
		OF LUCIE AMES MEAD.

	Dear Friends: The year 1907 promises
to be, one of the most important in the
world’s history. The Hague Conference,
which will probably be held in a few
months, will present an opportunity to
lessen the misery and waste of the world
such as all the charities of the earth com-
bined could not accomplish. Few have
yet awakened to the stupendous signific-
ance and far-reaching possibilities of the
recommendations for the subjects to be
brought before the Hague Conference,
made by the Interparliamentary Union
in the summer of 1906, at its meeting in
London. This body of statesmen from
the parliaments of the world recommend-
ed (1) the establishment of a periodic Ad-
visory World Congress, (2) the proportio-
nate limitation of armaments, (3) a gene-
ral arbitration treaty, (4) the protection
of private property at sea from capture in
time of war, (5) investigation by an im-
partial committee of difficulties between
nations, not otherwise settled, before hos-
tilities can be declared.
	If these recommendations were acccent-
ed by the Hague Conference and ratified
by the majority of the forty nations re-
presented in it, the machinery for the
world’s international business would be
ready, and the beginning of the end of
international war would be achieved. In
a few years the scope of arbitration would


be enlarged, international law would be
codified, and billions of dollars would be
saved for constructive purposes.
	It is of the utmost consequence that
the 80,000,000 Americans whose business
and, perhaps, whose lives are to be affect-
ed by these matters should not be dumb,
but should bring public sentiment to bear
on the State department, which is to be
the mouthpiece of the nation in this mat-
ter. I therefore recommend that indivi-
dually, and collectively, in all our organ-
izations, we should send brief letters to
Hon. Elihu Root, Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C., expressing the strong
desire that our government approve the
recommendations of the Interparliamen-
tary Union.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall presented the
plan of the Woman’s National Council for
a memorial to Miss Anthony in the form
of a bust.
	Mrs. Mary C. Gannett of Rochester
presented the plan for a memorial in the
form of a building for the women students
in the University of Rochester. She
moved the adoption of the following re-
solution:
	“That the N. A. W. S. A. welcomes
and approves the proposed memorial to
Susan B. Anthony, and hereby records
its endorsement of the plans of the An-
thony Memorial Association, and urges
the hearty co-operation of our members.”
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery and Mrs.
Florence Kelley seconded the motion.
Speeches against the resolution were
made by Miss Clay of Kentucky, Mrs.
Clark of Rochester and Mrs. Churchill of
California, speeches in favor by Mrs. Mc-
Lean of Ohio, Mrs. Avery, Mrs. Kelley,
Mrs. Monroe of Kansas, Mrs. Rainsford
of Rochester and Miss Sweeney of Pitts-
burgh, Pa. Miss Shaw called the vice-pre-
sident to the chair and explained the
friendly feeling that Miss Susan B. An-
thony had toward a memorial of this gen-
eral kind and the great interest that Miss
Mary S. Anthony took in this particular
plan. Miss Shaw recommended that the
last clause of the proposed resolution
should be changed before it was adopted,
as the N. A. W. S. A., while friendly to
the Rochester memorial, was going to
urge a special memorial of its own in the
form of a $100,000 fund for suffrage work.
Miss Clay urged that the last eight words
of the proposed resolution be left out.
Mrs. Gannett consented to leave them
out, and the resolution, thus amended,
was then carried unanimously. Mrs. Gan-
nett returned thanks in behalf of her as-
socation.						Ex.
	Miss Victorie de Maligny has recently
come from Paris to the United States to
lecture on French literature before the
Universities. She will be the first woman
that has had an engagement to lecture at
Yale.
	Congress, which appropriated millions
for battleships, cut down the appropria-
tion for playgrounds for the children of
Washington from $30,000 to $15,000, one-
half of what it was last year. If the moth-
ers and teachers of America had had a
vote for members of Congress, would not
Congressmen be likely to pay more regard
to the interests of the children?

[Column 2]
	The woman suffrage bill has again been
“talked out” in Parliament, and kept from
coming to a vote. The 21,000 women
who petitioned against it were few in
comparison with the 257,000 women who
had previously petitioned for it, but they
were enough to show that there are “An-
tis” in England as well as in America.
Their attitude recalls that of certain non-
conformist ministers who once petitioned
Parliament against abolishing the political
disabilities of dissenters. They preferred
to remain subject to their own political
disabilities rather than to see the Roman
Catholics relieved from theirs.
	The Maharani of Baroda was elected
president of the Ladies’ Conference which
lately met at Calcutta, a remarkable as-
sembly of 600 representative women from
all parts of India. The president, in her
address, remarked that the chief object of
the local ladies’ society in the Mahila
Samiti, was to unite Indian ladies of all
creeds, casts and races, just as the men
were drawing closer together in common
aims, aspirations and endeavors. She
said, “We shape the minds of our children
in infancy and boyhood. We can inspire
them with a legitimate pride in our past
history, and a love for our modern liter-
ture. The manhood and womanhood of
India are our handiwork; let us, mothers,
train them to the service of our country
wherever we may dwell, whatever be our
religious creed or our profession in life.”
It is encouraging to see that even in India
women are beginning to “get together”
and plan to serve their country.

MRS. HOWE AND HER PORTRAIT.
	“Mrs. Julia Ward Howe attended the
exhibition of Mr. Carnig Eksergian’s por-
traits, held recently in Boston, and made
the rounds of the rooms on the painter’s
arm, stopping a few moments before each
picture to comment upon it. Wearing a
dress of shimmering pale green silk, with
her white hair and vivid smile, as she
leaned on the arm of the slender, dark,
foreign artist, she made so charming a
picture that all the visitors turned from
the portraits to look at her, and many
sighed for a camera. Before her own
portrait, which represents her with her
arms full of Easter lilies, she made a long-
er pause, and people had a chance to ad-
mire the likeness. This is almost the only
picture of Mrs. Howe which represents
her with a smile on her face. In her
portraits her expression is always sorrow-
ful or stern. Her husband once upbraid-
ed her for this. He said, “You are the
jolliest woman I know, yet in your pho-
tographs you always look as if I had
dragged you through every torment!”
Mrs. Howe is now collecting the music
of which she has composed a good deal
during her life, and is going to publish a
book of her original songs. They are
great favorites with her children and
grandchildren.”
	Whereas in the second Hague Confer-
ence there will be offered the greatest
opportunity in human history to lessen
the burden of militarism: therefore.
	Resolved that we request the President
of the United States to approve the rec-
ommendations for the action of the ap-
proaching Hague Conference which were
presented by the Inter-Parliamentary
Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		MARCH, 1907


[Column 1]
		THE WOMEN OF ZION.
	The term women of Zion applies to the
sisters in the Church in the larger sense,
and is understood to mean all the women
of the Church, whether connected with
auxiliary organizations or not. It is the
opinion of the very best people in the
Church, that all the sisters should be
actively engaged so far as possible in one
or the other of the associations, that are
helpful in so many ways to women and
children, and we may truthfully say to
the family in all its relations to life. Par-
ticularly is the Relief Society helpful to
our women, as mothers in all their house-
hold duties. The work enters into every
field of usefulness, and we might add of
happiness.
	This society has been in the past very
lightly spoken of, and women who have
devoted their best energies to its estab-
lishment have been ridiculed and sneered
at, but that day is past among sensible
people, because the society and its work
is coming to be better comprehended.
The need of this organization is now very
widely known. It has become a power
for good not only in this land of liberty
and free institutions, but in other lands
afar off and it is growing in favor with
those good women who have received the
Gospel through the teachings of the
Elders, who proclaim it abroad, and
when these sisters are told that the
Prophet Joseph Smith established this
institution for women in his life time
through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,
they can indeed realize that it is some-
thing more than an ordinary association
of women for, benevolent purposes.
When one takes hold of the work in
earnest, then they begin to see more of
its actual benefits and educational ad-
vantages in and along many avenues of
activity, enterprise and development.
	Some of the people think it has been
slow in accomplishing the greater good
that might and ought to have been the
result of so much time and labor, during
all the sixty-five years since it was organ-
zed and that may be true in one sense,
but partly because only a few were really
converted to the idea of its being valu-
able, and again there were the years of
the exodus from Nauvoo, Illinois, (where
the Society was founded) and the jour-
neyings and the many hindrances of mak-
ing permanent homes herein these moun-
tain vales after the long and wearisome
travel over barren and desert lands, with

[Column 2]
all the incidental struggles of everyday
life, that pilgrims such as our people had
to pass through, however patient and
courageous and even ambitious the peo-
ple might be and were, as some of us can
truthfully testify. The wonder is not
that the sisters could not do more, but it
is, that they could do so much and en
dure.
	The Relief Society itself is already a
marvel to those who know what it has
done in its establishment permanently,
after the people had built up some homes,
and towns and settlements here and
there. With the difficulties to be en-
countered and overcome, the sisters, who
have been the promoters of this benevo-
lent work may well congratulate them-
selves on its progress, instead of being
discouraged, that more could not be done.
The officers of the Society and all its ac-
tive members may well be proud of the
success attained. Remember the sisters
are gathered from yarious countries, they
have had to adapt themselves to other
conditions than those they had been ac-
customed to in the lands from which they
came. There were many things to learn,
and looking over the matter carefully, we
must say the sisters have done remark-
ably well, and their labors are deserving
of commendation. There is never a call
made that they do not respond to it will-
ingly and gladly.
	Zion is growing rapidly and the Relief
Society must keep pace with its growth.
Therefore the need of being on the alert
to strengthen and uphold the hands of
those who carry the burden of the work,
whether in wards or stakes and encourage
all who will to come forward and assist
in making the Relief Society not only the
most genuinely useful organization, but
the most attractive. Let the sisters every-
where set forth in unmistakable terms
with eloquence and enthusiasm its bene-
fits and advantages, look upon the day of
meeting as a day of rejoicing and praise.
Sing the songs of Zion with the spirit and
understanding, and greet each other with
words of hope and cheer; make it a de-
lightful occasion, not one to tell of sor-
rows and hardships, but of the great bles-
sings vouchsafed to this people and the
glorious future of this goodly land, if the
people will keep the commandments of
our Father in heaven.
	There is certainly a magnificent future
for this Society all that the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith predicted in his teachings must
be fulfilled, and much more. The half
cannot be told of what it has already done
for the women of Zion in moral and spir-
tual uplifting, and with the more favor-
able conditions that continue to improve
daily, what may we not expect in the near
future from the superior advantages that
will certainly accrue as the natural se-
quence of events that must transpire in
the building up of temples of learning and
of the greatest institutions that must of
necessity be established in the day and
age, now at our very doors in order to
bring about the glory of Zion.
	These things must needs be accomplish-
ed and it will require energy and talent
of no common degree, and in all this even
the redemption of Zion, and the light and
glory of the many cities of the Saints,
woman will have her share of the mighty
work and the Relief Society will be one
of the preparatory stepping stones to the
ultimate triumph of the work of restora-

[Column 3]
tion. Let it not be considered of small
consequence, but make it so admirable
and excellent and withal so select, that all
the noble women of Zion will seek ad-
mittance thereto instead of having to be
urged to enter its ranks.


THE STEVENS GENEALOGY.
BY DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.
	Books of genealogical records are of
special interest to the Latter-day Saints
and the spirit that has inspired our breth-
ren and sisters more particularly, and also
the people of the world, to hunt up rec-
ords of ancestry, is in fulfillment of an-
cient prophecy, the very last words with
which the Old Testament closes its sa-
cred pages are from the prophet Malachi
on this very subject:
	“Behold I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great
and dreadful day of the Lord.
	“And he shall turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children, and the hearts of
the children to the fathers, lest I come
and smite the earth with a curse.”
	How significant this seems to all our
people, who are familiar with what has
transpired since the revelation to Joseph
Smith, who received direct communica-
tion concerning these things. Elijah the
prophet came and delivered to the
Prophet Joseph the message that has
gone forth, and the spirit of that message
is looking after our kindred that have
lived in times past, without whom those
who live now could not be made per-
fect. This work has grown to immense
proportions, and Sister Elvira Stevens is
one of those who has been diligent in
studying and tracing her genealogy, and
has used the means accumulated through
years of industry and toil in gathering up
and arranging names and data of her
kindred, as far back as obtainable; and
at last has had this matter compiled in a
very complete book form, available for
those of her name and lineage to peruse,
and become familiar with if they so de-
sire. The real value of it to herself is to
have a work done for her relatives in the
house of the Lord, whereby the family
chain may be linked together into one
perfect circle.
	The book is printed on excellent paper,
and is handsomely bound, and contains
fifty-eight illustrations of the family, men
and women. Some of them have been
members of the Latter-day Saints’ Church
and known among our people.
	The Stevens family are of Puritan an-
cestry, the first one the author mentions
is William Stevens, who came to New
England before 1632. She says he was a
ship carpenter, and one of the first set-
tlers of Salem, Mass., though he probably
had his residence in Boston or vicinity.
He filled several honorable positions,
such as selectman, commissioner, and for
four years a representative; and because
of his public services and in promoting
the prosperity of the colony he secured
an extraordinary grant of land (500 acres)
lying between two rivers with Indian
names, and a grant of six acres on what
was known as “Meeting House Neck;”
his residence property on the beach con-
sisted of eight acres. He is spoken of as
Governor Winthrop’s ship carpenter.
	He built the “Royal Merchant” of 600


tons. There are several notices of him
as ship builder in other places. He was
a member of the General Court in 1665,
when the colonial government made re-
sistance to the commissioners sent over
by the king. Four of Mr. Stevens’ neigh-
bors testified in a quarterly court in Sa-
lem in 1667, “that he had said he would
bear no office where Charles Stuart had
anything to do, and he cared no more for
Charles Stuart as king than any other
man, and that he abhorred the name of
Charles Stuart.” For this offence he was
imprisoned for one month and fined
twenty pounds and costs of trial, and was
deprived of his privileges as a freeman.
	Like others who rebelled against the
king, he lost prestige and failed in pros-
perity. It is said there is no record of
his death or a settlement of his estate. It
appears, however, that he married and
had seven children. The book contains a
record of the births. One, James Stevens,
a deacon of the church at Gloucester,
married Susan Evelyth, also Samuel,
married Mary Elery.
	There are many interesting items such
as these contained in the book, but we
have given this as marking the advent of
the first of Sister Elvira’s progenitors in
America. Whether she is directly descend-
ed from this Mr. Stevens we are not sure,
but he is a good specimen of the Puritans
who came over about that time and from
whom the colonies were largely peopled.
	The author has shown great persever-
ance in making so creditable a showing of
her ancestry, and we were pleased to see
that she had made mention of some who
have made a good record in this Church.
	Dr. Barney has made her own way in
the world, being left an orphan about the
time of the exodus from Nauvoo, and by
her own exertions and economy has built
and furnished four houses of her own.
These resideuces were all built in Salt
Lake City, and are probably all still
standing. The photos of the places are
shown in the book. Few women living
have done as much by their own industry
and she is certainly deserving of honor-
able mention, not only for building per-
manent habitations, but for effective
work she has done in other directions for
women and children. One of her splendid
characteristics is her loyalty to the Gos-
pel, and to those to whom she has be-
come endeared in the bonds of sisterhood.
We recommend the book to those inter-
ested in genealogical work, and trust she
will enjoy the fruits of her labor and reap
a glorious reward hereafter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUSAN AND MARY ANTHONY.
	Miss Mary S. Anthony beloved and only
sister of Miss Susan B. Anthony departed
this life at the old Anthony home in
Rochester, New York, Tuesday, February
5, 1907, her funeral was held on Thursday,
February 7, many glowing tributes of love
and esteem were paid by devoted life-long
friends. The attendance was very large.
The casket was of doye color and reposed
under a burden of white roses and calla
lilies, and about the foot it was draped
the stars and stripes. Old hymns were
played and sung, the scripture reading
was from I Corinthians 15th chapter.
Miss Mary was laid to rest in Mount Hope
cemetery beside her Sister the illustrious
Susan B. Anthony.


The younger Miss Anthony was a beau-
tiful character, and was not as is often
said, a supplement to Susan, but she was
one with her sister in her work and pur-
pose. Mrs. Greenleaf, in her address at
the funeral said, among other remarks.
“I revered Susan as the grandest woman
I ever knew. She was my inspirer, my
guide; but Sister Mary I loved as I have
loved few women. She was one of the
most perfect examples of a truly feminine
soul I have ever met. Most modest and
unassuming, gentle and loving, stanchest
of friends, tenderest of daughters, brave
and inflexible in the defense of what she
believed to be right.” Miss Mary Anth-
ony was present at the first Woman’s
Rights Convention held in Seneca Falls.
New York, in July, 1848, of whom there
are now very few remaining.
	Miss Mary Anthony was born April 2,
1827, so at her death she was seventy-
nine years, eight months and three days
old. The whole city of Rochester, it is
said, laid its tribute of honor on Mary
Anthony’s bier because of the importance
of her work in education, not only in the
capacity of her service as a teacher many
years, and of a principal in public schools,
but her untiring faithfulness and devotion
in her work for the poor and needy.
Blessed be her memory forever.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters and women generally
throughout the west have probably no-
ticed that the governors in the several
states are making appointments for the
great National American Arbitration and
Peace Conference to be held in New York
City the middle of April, of this year.
Some of us who have for eight years now
taken part in helping to sow the seeds of
peace and holding peace meetings in all
the wards throughout the entire Relief
Society in all its branches here and else-
where, feel great interest in this coming
conference and ardently hope that such a
powerful impression may be made upon
the great, the influential, the public-spir-
ited men of our nation, that its influence
may permeate the world. The Governor
of Utah has appointed several delegates
to attend this conference, and it is greatly
to be desired that they may return with
helpful suggestions for the peace meet-
ings to be held in May under the auspices
of the women’s organizations.
	REFERRING to entertainments and
parties given during the past winter that
are of special interest, we ought certainly
to mention in passing the Pioneer old-
fashioned ball given by the officers of
that Society, in the Lion House, January
31, 1907, and made specially significant
by the dances of long-ago in which many
old-timers, as well as younger people,
participated. The ladies were requested
to come in old-fashioned costumes, and the
greater number complied; many of them
were very quaint, and stylish as well, and
others were plain and simple, old-pioneer
style, some homespun, silk and woolen.
Some quite elaborate of “ye olden time,”
a very great variety. The ball opened with
a grand march led by President Joseph
F. Smith and wife, the enjoyment was 
very general and a spirit of good fellow-
ship was apparent throughout the even-


ing. The supper consisted of old-time
refreshments, in fact the idea of pioneer
life was quite successfully carried out, and
the committee must have been gratified
in having afforded so much genuine pleas-
ure to the guests who came by special
invitation. The Lion House was decidedly
popular as a place of entertainment in
former days, but had fallen into disuse of
late years, but seems uow to have re-
gained its former popularity.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS.
	My dear blessed sisters of the Relief
Society, there is a subject that weighs
heavily on my mind, and as I think there
are not many of you who are not in some
way interested in the cause, I desire to
commune with you today. I say blessed
sisters, for are we not blest indeed to
have our names enrolled in this grand and
God-given institution, and although we
are scattered far and wide, we have a
medium, in the dear EXPONENT of com-
municating with each other. I do not
remember the organization of the Relief
Society and the first year of its course,
for we were in England at the time, but
from the commencement of their public
meetings the second year, I have watched
the progress until the present time. I
well remember the grand things that were
predicted, and the great work given this
society to perform, and the spirit of it has
remained with me ever since, and been a
great help to me in the duties of life.
And while marvelous things have already
been accomplished the future will eclipse
all. The mission of the Relief Society
will never be finished while there is a
want to relieve, spiritual as well as tem-
poral. I wondered in those early days if
would live to see those glorious times
that had been predicted, and I have re-
joiced greatly, and my eyes have been
filled with happy tears as I have read of
the spread of the Gospel, and the growth
of the Relief Society even unto the is-
lands of the sea. Then rejoice in your
hearts, dear sisters, for your standing in
this great organization, for has not the
Prophet said that it was for the pure in
heart, the virtuous, and none others?
And one of our good brethren has said
that if we were approved of our com-
panions, our family, and our associates,
we were very likely to be approved of our
God. This has been a great comfort to
me as a rule to go by, and I feel like be-
ing very careful not to offend any. And
we read that “another book was opened,”
and sisters when the Relief Society rec-
ords are opened and our names are found
there in good standing it will be a happy
time indeed for us, and I trust we will all
have “something in them to recommend
us.”
	The influence that a Latter-day Saint
can yield is very great, and the humblest
of us, sisters, can find much to do.
	If we look about us with a prayerful
heart and by the help of our Heavenly
Father wonders can be accomplished.
And O, let us ever be found among the
“faith promoting series,” and never by
word or look do anything to pull down.
	And now to my all-important subject,
the motherless children of Zion. My
soul is drawn out in anguish at their great
loss, and their numbers, and there is not
a week passes but more are added to the


list, and my heart asks the question why
is it so? and my soul answers: It is God’s
will, even so. But oh, what a responsi-
bility left to the inhabitants of Zion, to
comfort, to cheer, to counsel, to guide
and direct, to seek after and watch over,
to encourage well doing and protect from
the devouring wolves. And let me ask
you, dear sisters of the Relief Society, to
so simplify the work in your homes, that
you may have time for this vast work of
training the motherless ones and help
them to have faith in the Gospel—in fact
to do by them as you would have done by
yours under like circumstances.
	Many years ago I was raised up from,
as it were, the gates of death, my grati-
tude was very great that I was spared to
my little ones, and I promised my Heav-
enly Father that I would be a “counselor
and guide” to all the motherless within
my reach. And sisters in your ministra-
tions do not overlook the big boys, their
hearts are tender, but they lock their sor-
rows in their own breasts and would
hardly think it womanly to pour out their
grief in any ears. Draw them to you in
kindness and sympathy, let them feel
that they indeed have a motherly friend
in you. Encourage them in their pros-
perity, and where failures appear come
to the rescue with all the faith you can
command, and wisdom will be given you
for every need.
	President George Q. Cannon once told
us that a faithful mother could say any-
thing to her boys (as well as girls) that
would be for their well being, which I have
proven to be true. And are they not all
our boys, and we do not want one to
stray or be lost. When the time comes
for them to take companions enquire if
they are going to the Temple, if so, tell
them you have a suit they can use, and
help them all you can. But if there are
obstacles in the way, try and find out
what they are, and help to remove them
if possible. Go to the Fountain, say here
are the clothing, oh, Father provide Thou
the lamb I pray Thee, and you will mar-
vel at the results of your efforts and your
petitions. But the subject is too vast for
this article and I can only hope that the
spirit of the mission will rest upon you as
it does upon me; and is this work not in-
cluded in the mission of saviors upon
Mount Zion? The Doctrine and Cove-
nants tells us that it is a slothful servant
that waits to be called in all things, then
let us take up this mission in behalf of
the dear mothers that have passed be-
hind the veil, as well as for their posterity
that remain with us.
	Sincerely your sister in the covenant of
peace,
					M. A. WINTERS.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 21, 1906.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK.
		MILLARD STAKE.

	Lecture 1—Marriage.
	Marriage ordained of God, Doc. and
Cov. 49: 15-17. Sacredness of the mar-
riage covenant, Doc. and Cov. 132 Key
to Theology, chap. 17.

	Lecture 2—The education required be-
fore entering the married state.
	Boys contemplating marriage should
learn the arts of agriculture and mechan-
ism. The intelligent farmer, the most in-

[Column 2]
dependent of mankind, and it is he who
can lead the ideal life, close to the heart
of nature, Girls should be instructed in
housekeeping in every department of the
home, also in the development of charac-
ter and ability. Introduce practical illus-
trations; more preparation should be
made to qualify girls for wives and moth-
ers than to enable them to become school
teachers and business women.

	Lecture 3—God’s first commandment
to multiply and replenish the earth. Gen.
1: 28.
	How to prepare for motherhood. The
gospel as essential to spiritual develop-
ment. The Word of Wisdom essential
to physical development. The joy and
love of a willing mother to rear an
honorable family the greatest work a wo-
man can do.

	Lecture 4—Building the home.
	As in the beginning an intelligent Cre-
ator prepared the earth to be the home
of mankind, so we should intelligently
prepare our homes—with firm founda-
ons—for comfort, convenience, economy
of time and strength, for health and
harmony, for peace and love. If a coun-
try home, convenient buildings for the
stock, poultry, etc.; improved orchards,
gardens, lawns and flower gardens, All
that tends to elevate and add refinement
to the home should be encouraged,cheer-
fulness of disposition should be cultivat-
ed in the family. The home should be
the ideal spot to all concerned.

	Lecture 5—Government of the home.
	The unity of parents in governing their
children—one parent should not interfere
with the other, whether he or she is re-
proving the child, unless cruel treatment
is exercised. Teach the child to be self-
governing by setting good examples—by
reasoning with and showing the results
of doing certain things. Never threaten
or intimidate children; show them gently
and kindly how to do things; do not call
your children names, such as dunces,
fools, blockheads, or little devils, remem-
ber they are “chips of the old block.”
Have confidence in your children and
place responsibility upon them—children
thus treated will justify the confidence
reposed in them. Government is guiding,
not controlling by force. Do not scold—
as far as possible, control by gentleness
and love.

	Lecture 6—Responsibility of parents.
	Blessing of chiidren, Doc. and Cov. sec.
20, y. 70 sec. 29, v.46, 47, 48 68: 25-31.
Faith, repentance and baptism.

	Lecture 7—What to teach our children.
	Cleanliness, industry, Doc. and Cov.
42: 41, 42. Not to take the name cf God
in vain, Doc. and Cov. 63: 60-64. To
keep the Sabbath day holy, Doc. and
Cov. 59. To love and respect their par-
ents. To respect grown people and the
rights of playmates. To be kind to all
dumb animals, and to reverence old age.
To honor father and mother by leading
pure lives. To be obedient to all right-
eous authority. That before they can
learn to govern or control others they
must first learn to obey. Teach them to
be patriotic, brave, gentle, true, modest;
not to listen to vulgar or profane conver-
sation; not to be loud or boisterous in
the streets or in public places; not to be

[Column 3]
vain of fine clothes or superior accom-
plishments, Doc. and Cov. 42:40. that it
is an honor to be careful of their clothes,
and to appreciate the care and love ex-
ercised that they might be well clothed
and fed and provided with comfortable
homes and education; that all honest
work is honorable. It is a false education
which does not prepare us to meet the
battles of life. Work wins and educates.
By doing we learn to do. Never ridicule
an unfortunate person, such conduct does
not enhance our intelligence, or increase
our importance. All persons have defects
—we are wise if we pay heed to our own
and let others alone. Last but not least,
in teaching our children, teach them to
imitate not a fool, but a wise man.

	Lecture 8—Care of the sick. Doc. and
Cov. sec. 42, v. 43-53-

	Lecture 9—Effects of alcohol and to-
bacco on muscle and brain.
	Cite examples that have come under
your own observation of those who have
suffered and died from effects of this evil
habit. Some business men Will not em-
ploy men or boys who use either liquor
or tobacco. State the reason why. For
useful reference see Doc. and Cov. sec. 89.
Word of Wisdom.
	Note: This lecture should be given as
impressive as possible, then the lecturer
should be sent as a missionary to the -
Mutual Improvement Association and to
the Primary, said lecture to be delivered
to each of these Associations.

	Lecture 10—The Tragedy of Broken
Family Ties contrasted with a happy,har-
monious, united and Loyal Family.
	Note: On the second Thursday in De-
cember a suitable program should be pre-
pared for Christmas and to celebrate Jos-
eph Smith’s birthday.
		ISABELLA ROBISON, Pres.
		MARINDA BENNETT, Sec.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
I. Language in the Home.
	He that hath a perverse tongue falleth
into mischief.” Give meaning of ‘‘Moth-
er Tongue.” The necessity of correct
language in the home. Impure language
displeasing unto the Lord. Read James
3; Matt. 12: 36.

II. Home Influence.
	As the twig is bent, so the tree is in-
clined.” What is our attitude as mothers
to our children, as Primary, Sabbath
School and M. I. A. members. How may
we create an influence at home typical of
heaven. Ref. Young Woman’s Journal,
August, 1905, Juvenile Instructor, October
1, 1904, October 15, 1901, Nov. 1, 1901.

III. Mother’s Duty to the Primary and
		Sabbath School.
	Have children ready on time. Encour-
age their telling what the teachers tell
them. Assist them in home preparation.
Age of Primary children. Ref. Juvenile
nstructor. January 15, 1906, Young
Woman’s Journal, May, 1902.

IV. Loyalty.
	To those in authority over us. To our
co-workers. To our brethren and sisters,
To our Creator. Be loyal citizens. Ref.
January and July Improvement Era,
1905.


V. Self Control.
	Tbe secret to successful life. Mother’s
must obtain it. Teach children self-con-
trol. Ref. Y. W. J. May, 1900.
VI. System.
	“There is not an hour of youth but is
trembling with destinies.” Use of spare
moments. Have rest and sports to some
purpose. “The great majority of youths
who go to the bad are ruined after supper.
Ref. Improvement Era, 1906.
	VII. Unity.
	“Where there is unison, there is
strength.” Necessity of union among as-
sociate officers, teachers, members. What
is the greatest weapon wielded against
union. How may this evil be avoided. How
shall we train our children that the spirit
of fault-finding may not develop. Ref.
Juvenile Instructor, Jan. 1, 1904.
VIII. Obey Counsel.
	“Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
Sustain those in authority over us by
obeying their instructions. Honor those
whom God honors. Ref. Improvement
Era, Feb. 1906. Deseret News Feb. 6,
1906.
IX. Habit.
	How formed. How shall we form good
habits. How shall we teach our children
the value of good habits. Read Improve-
ment Era, March 1903, p. 377. Juvenile
Instructor, March 14, 1900. Y. W. J. Oct.
1906.
X. Respect.
	What is respect? How obtained. How
retained. To whom is it due. How
shown. Illustrated by contrast. Read
Improvement Era, Nov. 1906.
XI. Dress.
	How shall we dress? Its physical effect.
Its moral effect. Read Y. W. J. Feb.
1906.
XII. Pioneering.
	Conditions incident to pioneer life.
Develops strength of endurance. Enum-
erate advantages in pioneer life. Read
Y. W. J. July, 1902.
			LUCY F. GRANT, Pres.
			ELLEN H. JOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved sister.
		MARGARET PIERCE WHITESIDES YOUNG,
Widow of President Brigham Young, one of Utah’s
loved and respected Pioneers, and a member of the
first organization of the Relief Society, who de-
parted this life January 16, 1907.
	WHEREAS Sister Young has been closely con-
nected with the Emerson Ward Relief Society—
				Resolved that—
	We, the officers and members desire to express
our appreciation of her example, integrity and
worth as a faithful mother in Israel, and wish to
extend our sincere sympathy to the family in their
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased and be placed
on our records, and one sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication.
	“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life.
		Faithful as daughter, mother, woman and wife;
	Crowned with celestial glory thou shall shine
		’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
					BARBARA M. JONES,
					CICILY C. BARTON,
					SARAH T. SOUTH,
					PRUDENCE BROWN,
								Committee.


To the memory of Cyrena Dustin Merrill, who
departed this life February 3, 1907. Deceased was
born in New York, she went to Ohio when but a
child, and was converted to the gospel by hearing
an Elder sing the Hymn “An angel came down
from the mansions of glory,” Being naturally spir-
tual minded, and possessed by strong religious
convictions, she soon joined the church leaving
all, for the sake of the gospel and gathered with
the Saints at Far West.
	Sister Merrill was a member of the First Relief
Society organization in Nauvoo, and at the or-
ganization of the St. Joseph Stake, June 1883, she
was chosen first counselor to the President Sister
Willmirth East and labored in that position until
January 1898, when she was released on account
of her age, but her interest was still in the Relief
Society work. On January 6, 1907, it being her
90th birthday, members of the Relief Society Stake
Board with a few very intimate friends and rela-
tives assembled at her home, and held a testimony
meeting, she bore a faithful testimony to the truth-
fulness of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith with whom she was personally ac-
quainted. We appreciate her labors and example,
during our association with her. She was a devoted
wife and mother, and we recognize in her a faith-
ful friend whose memory will ever be cherished
by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake.
					ELIZABETH LAYTON.
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE KIMBALL.
							Committee.


Resolutions of Respect on the death of Sister
Delilah King Olsen, wife of Daniel Olsen, and
daughter of Judge King of Millard County, who
departed this life January 5th, 1907; at Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	WHEREAS; Our Father in Heaven, in his infinite
wisdom has called from our midst Sister Olsen,
who, for many years previous to her removal to
Salt Lake City, was a faithful worker in the as-
sociations here; following are the positions which
she has filled with honor, viz:
	President of Fillmore Ward Relief Society, of
Primary, of Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association, Secretary of Millard Stake Relief
Society, Stake President of Primary Association,
and a Teacher in Sunday School.
	She was ever energetic in the performance of
her duties, ever a faithful and true friend and lov-
ing mother, and one whose words were like pearls.
—In many years of close friendship we never
heard a word from her lips that one could censure
She recognized the best in every one, and where
she could not speak words of praise, she held her
peace. Her meekness of spirit won the respect
and love of all who associated with her. We feel
to express our love for her in these few lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister, associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things well,
and say, “Thy will Oh Lord not ours be done.”
	Resolved—that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us, that of being a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved—that we extend our heart felt sympa-
thy to the hereaved children and relatives—that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to them,
a copy be entered on the minute book of Millard
Stake Relief Society and that they be printed in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				ISABELLA E. ROBISON,
			in behalf of Relief Society.


Tribute to the memory of Sister Hannah Single-
ton Wild, who died February 1st, 1907. She was
born in England on the 6th day of April, 1840.
Her parents embraced the gospel in England and
crossed the great waters for America with their 9
months’ old babe. On arriving in America they
journeyed to St. Louis. During their sojourn in
St. Louis an epidemic of cholera broke out and
the mother and sister were taken from the family.
At the age of 14 she with the remainder of the fam-
ily emigrated to Salt Lake City. After spending
the first winter there they came to American Fork
where she has resided continuously. She was
married at the age of 16 to John Singleton by
whom she had 5 children. Her husband died Dec.
24th, 1865. In 1867 she was married to Joseph
Wild by whom 5 more children were added to
her family, 7 of whom survive her. In 1882 she
studied obstetrics under Dr. Romania B. Pratt
in Salt Lake City and from that time until her
death she labored diligently, patiently and faith-


fully among the sick never too weary to attend 
to the numerous calls, made upon her by night or
by day, but always ready to administer to the sick. 
She was the instrument in God’s hand of bringing 
seventeen hundred souls into this world. 
	The lovely white casket which held all that was 
mortal of our beloved sister was covered with 
flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.

				RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS our Heavenly Father has seen fit to 
remove our beloved sister, from our midst one who 
has been to all an example of patience and cheer-
fulness and a loving mother. Therefore be it re-
solved by the sisters of the American Fork 4th 
Ward Relief Society that we tender our sympathy
unto the bereaved family and relatives. And while 
we feel deeply the loss, we know that she died as 
she had lived in the hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. 
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the re-
cord of this Society, and sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication. 
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the 
Relief Society February 28th, 1907. 

	Why do we mourn that she has left us? 
	We should only say well done; 
	She was true to her probation 
	And a place in heaven has won. 
	'Tis true her parting has bereft us 
	But her virtues we recall; 
	She was candid, firm and valiant, 
	And a loving friend to all. 

	She has gathered with her kindred 
	But her work will never cease; 
	She will love the truth in heaven 
	And impart her works of peace, 
	While she mingles with the angels 
	Yet her choicest blessings fall 
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones, 
	Yes, she blesses one and all. 
					ALICE T. STEELE, 
					ALICE A. MOTT,
					SAEINA E. ALLEN, 
					ELLEN G. PROCTOR. 
								Committee.


On the 25th day of January, 1907, there passed
from earth one of the noble spirits of this dispensa-
tion, Sister Anna D. Johnson Kempe. In her
death, which occurred while on a visit to her
daughters, in Mesa, Arizona, St. Johns loses one
of her most loyal and progressive citizens, and our
Relief Society one of its most faithful workers.
She was born February 5th, 1837, in Fredrickstad
Norway. Her early life was one of toil, much of
her time being spent with her father and brothers
fishing for the market.
	For many years she worked out. She could not
go home when she felt inclined as girls do at the
present time but was engaged for a number of
years at a time.
	Her people were religious, but were satisfied
with what they had. She alone seemed to yearn
for some thing better. At the age of eighteen she
first heard the sound of the gospel, and she knew
it was true. She was away from home at the time
learning the dressmakers trade, and was not per-
mitted to return to her parents afterward. Hence-
forth her only kindred were those who cast their
lot with the Saints of God. For eleven years she
worked in Norway, assisting the elders and savingmeans to come to Zion. Very often she would give
the whole of her weeks earnings to the church, and
counted It a privilege to do so. In 1865 she emi-
grated to Utah crossing the plains with oxteams.
In 1866 she was married to Christopher J. Kempe.
They moved to Provo where they lived six years.
In 1872 moved to Richfield remained there long
enough, to get good homes started, for Sister
Kempe’s thrift, industry and economy made a
showing in any place where she lived. In 1880
the family were called to help to build up the
settlements in Arizona, arriving in St. Johns in
October of that year. Then commenced a heroic
struggle to maintain themselves and build homes,
amid many discouraging conditions, not the least
being the bitter persecutions of our enemies. But
Sister Kempe always looked on the bright side of
things and had an encouraging word and more
substantial aid for those worse off than herself.
In 1884 her husband with other brethren, was tried
on a charge of ‘unlawful cohabitation” and most
cruelly sentenced to three years in the Detroit
House of Correction. This trial she bore bravely,
as she did everything else in life, and from that
time took upon herself the duties of both parents
in the rearing, educating and providing for her
family. After Brother Kempe’s return from prison


he was called to preside in the Concho Ward,
where he lived up to the time of his death, some
years ago. Sister Kempe was the mother of six
daughters, five of whom survive her. They are
Mrs. Hannah Greer of Holbrook, Mrs. Amelia
Coleman Prest of Y L. M. I. A. of St. Johns Stake;
Mrs. Olena Lewis and Amanda Hastings of Mesa,
Arizona, and Miss Leila Kempe of St. Johns.
Sister Kempe was a most devoted and self sacrific-
ing mother. Her daughters were early taught and
encouraged not only in literary pursuits but in all
kinds of work, and they are today successful
teachers, seamstresses and homebuilders.
	Sister Kempe has been actively engaged in Re-
lief Society work since she came to Zion and for
many years a subscriber for the EXPONENT. She
acted as President of our Ward Relief Society for
several years and was an active teacher till the
time of her leaving for a visit in November 1906.
	Although her funeral and burial took place
at Mesa where she died, memorial services were
held for her in the St. Johns Stake Academy on
the first Sunday in February 1907 when the Stake
Presidency, the Bishop, and many of her old
friends and neighbors bore testimony to her sterl-
ing qualities. Her integrity to the truth, her loyal-
ty to the priesthood, her strict honesty in the pay-
ment of her tithes and offerings, her unbounded
hospitality, benevolence and loving neighborly
qualities were all dwelt upon, showing beyond a
doubt what the gospel will do for a person if they
live up to its requirements. Also at the first meet-
ing of the St. Johns Relief Society held after her
sudden death (which was caused from pneumonia
after a two-weeks illness) her sisters bore testimony
to her many years of faithful work in our Society.
Felt that one of their strong props had gone, and
she would be sadly missed. It was resolved that
we send a sketch of her life to the EXPONENT and
that resolutions of respect and condolence be sent
to her family and placed upon our records. With
dear Sister Kempe we feel that all is well. A
glorious resurrection awaits her, and may God
comfort her family is our prayer.
			SARAH R. BERRY, President.
			IDA H. UDALL, Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STARE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine
Stake was held at Lehi, January 25th,
1907, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Notwithstanding the stormy weather
there was a very good attendance of of-
ficers and members.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring welcomed the sisters, and
wished all a happy and prosperous “New
Year.” Felt to thank the officers for their
diligence during the past year. There
have been many sick and you have at-
tended them; also much has been done in
building Tabernacle and Meeting Houses.
President Bathsheba W. Smith had recom-
mended that every sister contribute one
dollar for the erection of the “Woman’s
Building.”
	Six of the wards were reported by the
different presidents showing unity and
progression; the poor are looked after
and there is means to relieve them for
the people donate liberally.
	Duett: Sisters Whitman and Clark.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: “There
is no need to worry about the Relief
Society, it is all right,” and made other
excellent remarks upon sacred subjects.
“Trials are necessary for our advance-

[Column 2]
ment and for the increase of the work.
Let us do our part and be faithful to our
calling.
	Sister Laura Cutler was very pleased
to meet her old associates and fellow
workers, found that Relief Society work
is the same everywhere. Her Stake (Gra-
nite) had taken up the lives of our Presi-
dents and found it created an interest and
brought a good attendance to their meet-
ings. Was thankful that Sister Standring
was able to attend the meetings and give
counsel to the sisters.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Conference reassembled 2 o’clock, Pre-
sident Standring presiding. After the
opening exercises President Standring ex-
pressed her joy and satisfaction at seeing
such a good attendance this afternoon;
thought the sisters were in the line of
their duty. Referred to the remarks of
President Chipman in the forenoon.
	Six of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents.
	Song: “Savior let me walk with Thee.”
Sister Fitten.
	President A. J. Evans desired the moth-
ers to impress upon the minds of the boys
their duty and watch them and guard 
them against all sorts of evil doings and
influences.
	President James H. Clarke thought that
of late a spirit of irreverence was growing
up among our young people, close to the
line of infidelity, not all at once but gradu-
ally. Boys who are born of parents who
have received the holy priesthood cannot
be saved through the faithfulness of their
parents. Urged mothers to look after the
boys and the girls. Our children are no
better than others. You desire to save
yourselves and your children. There are
scoffers among us as there was in the days
of the Savior. Keep the boys under good
influences; send them to good Church
schools if you can. If mother comes up
to pay a little tithing and brings the chil-
dren and allows them to pay a little it will
encourage them that they will honor the
principle of tithing.
	Bishop Gardner (of Lehi) felt to con-
gratulate the Relief Society. These are
the select, they understand their business
and are working at it. It requires stamina
to keep up to our duties. We are visiting
the homes of the people. Let us live our
religion, we cannot live without it.
	Bishop Lewis (of Lehi) said a few words
of commendation for the labors of the
sisters.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock, one of the
Stake Board, made a few remarks on the
importance of the Relief Society work.
Desired to do her duty and magnify her
calling acceptable to the Lord.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt the
speaking and the singing had all been ap-
propriate. We have all the influences we
can combat. Our children are not perfect
because they are born of good parents.
We are blest and strengthened by being
here today. Desired to carry a good in-
fluence wherever she might go.

[Column 3]
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board.
A great responsibility rests upon us, we
must not lose our influence over our chil-
dren. Let us make this a year of im-
provement to all.
	Singing: “Great God attends while Zion
sings.” Prayer by President Rebecca
Standring. Conference adjourned for
three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Secretary.


ONEIDA STHKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society convened in
the First Ward meeting house, Preston,
President Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	Counselor Solomon H. Hale, Patriarch
S. R. Parkinson and four members of the
stake board present.
	Singing, “Praise to tne man,” etc.
Prayer by S. R. Parkinson. Singing,
“Let the lower lights be burning”—Miss-
es Weaver and Benson,
	Pres. Julia S. Roper, of Preston first
ward, spoke of the good being derived
from “Mother’s Work,” also on ‘Grati-
tude.”
	Secretary Phoebe A. McNeil read a
paper on Mother’s Influence in the
Home.
	Solo, “Know this, that every soul is
free”—Mary E. McNeil.
	Prest. Esther Rogers, of Preston fisrt
ward, spoke on the blessed privilege of
bearing children, rearing them, gaining
their confidence, etc., also of unity in R.
S. work.
	Dora Geddes gave a lecture on “Cha-
ty.”
	Counselor Sol. H. Hale addressed the
conference, touching briefly the subjects
of organization of R.S. work, noble call-
ing of mother, and patience; advised
wives to prudently encourage their hus-
bands to do good.
	Singing, “Guide us, O thou great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Bodily, of
Fairview.
	Afternoon Session.—Singing. Prayer
by Bishop Benson, of Whitney. Singing.
	Pres. Julia Jenson, of Preston second
ward, spoke on the importance of moth-
erhood, also mother’s influenced pow-
er of prayer.
	Solo, “I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth”—Florence B. Jonasson.
	Pres. Sarah J. Fjelsted, of Preston
fourth ward, spoke on diminishing our
troubles by doing good to others, and ad.
vised all to be cheerful and contented,
	Linda N. Benson gave a lecture on
Prayer,
	Duet—Eva Johnson and Eleanor
Thomas. 
	Counselor Jos. S, Geddes spoke on
Faith of Latter-day Saint women, Zion
leading educationally as well as spirit-
ually, and regretted the growing evil of
profanity.
	Recitation by Ellen Henderson.
	Pres. L. B. Benson spoke of sacrament
meetings and slack attendance at same,
etc.; advised all to grasp every oppor-
tunity for learning; urged the sisters to
care for the sick and needy.
	Conference adjourned after singing “O
ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Bishop Mecham, of Riverdale.
		PHEBE A. MCNEIL, Secretary.
		LINDA M. BENSON, Rec. Sec,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should he a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35 						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1907.						No. 9


CONTENTS.
Bathsheba W. Smith. (With Portraits..............
	...................................Emmeline B Wells	65
Mother’s Work:—Tooele Stake.......................	66
Notes and News...............................................	66
Annual Day, March 17, 1907...........................	67
In Memoriam...................................................	67
Relief Society Reports:—Hyrum Stake...........	67
	Uintah Stake.............................................	71
	Union Stake..............................................	71
	Nebo Stake...............................................	72	
	Maricopa Stake........................................	72
	Afton, Wyoming......................................	72
Editorial:—The Officers of the Relief Society
	.................President Bathsheba W. Smith	68
	Eighty-Five Years Young.........................	68
	Seventy-Seventh Annual Conference......	69
	Peace Meetings........................................	69
	General - Conference	of	the 	Relief
		Society..............................................	70
	Editorial Notes..........................................	69
Poetry:—Bring Flowers...........Lydia D. Alder	65
	Woman, The Missionary..........................
		............................Grace Ingles Frost	66
	Life and Death..................Ernest Crosby	67
	Unkissed Children....................................	67


BRING FLOWERS

Bring flow’rs, but to the living;
	Hearts bleed and die for love—
One blossom pure and simple,
	A kindly thought will prove.
As rain revives the roses,
	That droop ’neath summer’s heat,
So will a love-thought brighten,
	Be sorrows e’er so deep.

The living need the flowers;
	Bring one, if only one;
Or if it be a hand clasp,
	’Twill cheer like to the sun.
Withhold not, till death freezing
	The heart that cries in pain,
Hath stilled its cry forever—
	Then flowers are in vain.

For closed eyes can see not,
	Though we be dim with grief;
Then tell them, while yet living,
	Of faith in them—belief.
The drooping life ’twill stengthen
	With heart-beats warm and fast;
The burden will be lighter,
	The trials soon o’erpast.

A flow’r e’en though ’tis fading,
	Gift in a darken’d room,
Spreads fragrance with its beauty—
	Dispels the densest gloom.
The sun may shine tomorrow
	Across a grave of flowers
And yet the silent sleeper
	Heeds not these gifts of ours.

Then bring a tiny blossom,
	If love be in thine heart
’Twill cause the tears to trickle,
	Relieve the cruel smart.
A fervent prayer to heaven
	Will soar on wings of love,
Rise to the shining portals—
	Your treasure up above.

Thus are we paid for giving—
	For gifts alone live on;
Love’s flowers—unfaded, glowing—
	Bloom’fore the Eternal Throne.
Oh, happy, then the mortal
	Who of his store gives free!
Love’s off’rings fair, bloom everywhere—
	Flow’rs of Eternity.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
[Photograph of Bathsheba Smith]
	The pictures on this page speak for
themselves, one taken in the prime of life
the other at an advanced age.
	Among the noble women of Zion who
have attained honor and distinction in
this Latter-day dispensation, the subject
of this brief sketch stands pre-eminent.
	Born of goodly parents in one of the
most beautiful country places in old Vir-
ginia her mind was inclined to love that
which was good; virtue, honesty and
truthfulness; as a child she was of a re-
ligious tendency and attended to secret
prayers, and it has been a habit all her
life; she was also of a cheerful and happy
disposition, which she has ever retained;
she thoroughly enjoyed her home life and
its natural advantages and freedom, its
simple yet dignified environments.
	In the home, which was a typical do-
mestic one, she was taught housewifery in
all its departments; for in those early days
besides plain housework all the “arts and
crafts” were taught in the household, such
as carding, spinning, weaving, both wool
and flax, and in Southern homes, cotton;
fine sewing, hem-stitching and embroid-
ery were among the accomplishments of
the young ladies, as well as singing, danc-
ing and playing old style musical instru-
ments.
	Miss Bigler as a girl, was fond of out-
door life, and flowers (she has always culti-
vated) trees, groves and streamlets, and
all the hills and dales around her father’s
farm far and near were familiar to her,
and she took pleasure in rambling over
them on horseback; when a young girl
she was an expert and fearless rider, and
this healthful exercise together with her
home training developed in her those
strong characteristics of endurance that
are exceptional among women. Her early
life seems to have been a fitting prepar-
ation for her future usefulness; not only
as a wife and mother, but for the many
public positions of various kinds she has
been called at different times to fill, during
her long and eventful career.
	Accepting the Gospel in her early girl-
hood, she became convinced, through an
answer to her prayers, that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of the Lord, and that the
Book of Mormon was a divine record.


[Photograph of a woman]
	Strange indeed that there in the dear
home she should meet as a minister of the
Gospel, the man who was destined to be
her future lover, and husband, and after-
ward through that subtle intuition or
shall one say, the spirit of prophecy she
was conscious of the mutual attraction.
	The Bigler family were converted to
the truth and sold the homestead so dear
to them all, and journeyed by team to
Missouri, the gathering place of the Saints
at that time. It was in the days of the
most severe  persecutions. Sister Bath-
sheba is a living witness of many of those
dreadful tragedies. In 1840, the family
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, where the
Prophet Joseph was then located, and
there Sister Bathsheba had such oppor-
tunities of hearing the Prophet Joseph,
as it is our opinion no one else now living
has enjoyed.
	On the 25th of July, 1841, she was mar-
ried to George A. Smith, a favorite cousin
of the Prophet, and the youngest mem-
ber of the Twelve Apostles. Then the
dream of her girlhood was realized for
this union was a perfect one, and she
was buoyantly happy, as the beloved wife
and companion of an honored and fav-
ored Apostle and leader in Israel. Mrs.
George A. Smith was eminently qualified
for the place she occupied; she had the
womanly reserve of manner and the good
taste in dress that won the admiration of
all, and adds to the dignity of woman-
hood.
	We know whereof we speak when we
say, she was greatly admired by Brig-
ham Young, and he was a man of most
excellent judgment of people. She was
always invited by him on great occasions.
It may be thought frivolous in the writer
to tell these things, but though Sister
Bathsheba occupies at the present time,
(and has for many years) an exalted place
among the sisterhood of the Church, yet
she is withal a woman, with ideas, feel-
ings, sentiments and attachments like
others of her fellow associates, therefore
one may be pardoned in writing of her
as “Our President,” if reference be made
to her womanly qualities.
	Sister Smith was privileged to minister
in the holy ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple in Nauvoo. When
the sacred ordinances were first adminis-


tered here, she was called to officiate, and
in all the Temples that have been erected
in these mountain vales she has partici-
pated in this sacred work.
	There is no woman living that has such
a record in this line of work. When the
Salt Lake Temple was opened for ordin-
ances, after the dedication, she took first
place, (Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
had precedence, being unavoidably ab-
sent) and she has, up to this date, never
been away from her post one day in all
these fourteen years, since May 22, 1893,
She has ministered to thousands and tens
of thousands of the daughters of Zion,
who rise up and call her blessed.
	After the death of our dearly beloved
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church, Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was appointed to
fill the place of General President over
the Relief Society in all the world. Like
her illustrious husband, who was never
late, and never away from his post of duty
except by sickness, she has been present
and presided at every General Confer-
ence of the Society, and at every meeting
of the Board of Directors, during her term
of office, which commeuced in November,
1901. No more fitting encomium of her
life could be written than the following
quotation from the Bible: “Give her of
the fruits of her hands and let her own
works praise her within the gates.”

			A PORTRAIT.
	A queenly woman, statuesque and grand—
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face,
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her valiant life one long, sweet symphony,
Of duty, love, and soulful harmony.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN, THE MISSIONARY.
	(Dedicated to Sister Laura Bennion, who has
recently departed on a mission to the Northern
States.)

		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
Woman, thou who art so weak, and yet so strong,
Where upon the battle fields of life
Hast thou not stood?
And where may be the path that doth not bear
The impress of thy feet?
’Twas thou who gave our Lord and Savior birth;
’Twas on thy breast His infant head reposed;
Beside thy knee His childish prayer was lisped.
And when He upon the cross was nailed by those
He came to save,
’Twas thou who longest at His feet didst weep
Aye, and while within the sepulchre He lay,
’Twas thou who first didst visit there,
And unto thee it was that He first spoke,
When He had loosed the bands of death,
And rose triumphant from the tomb.

But though upon the field Thou didst appear
As one who acted well a mighty part,
’Twas not Thy right of heavenly things to speak
Like unto Him Thy head, 
Until the Light of Heaven had pierced the gloom
That for long years didst hover o’er the earth,
And God, in His great mercy and His love,
Restored unto mankind the gospel plan
In all its fulness.

Behold the woman now. called to go forth
With man unto the nations of the earth,
Bearing gladsome tidings of great joy
To those who in the gloom of darkness sit.
And has she on this field of action failed 
Her part to do?
Ask those with whom she labors side by side—
Ask those who in affliction’s hour have felt
The comfort of her kindly word and deed—
Ask those who on the streets have heard her voice
Raised in defence of truth, or prayer to God.


Hath not the heart of many a one been touched
While listening to those words of simple faith?
Hath not the mind of many a godless one
Been caused to turn back on the wheels of thought,
Unto the time when it in innocence
Had learned to pray be[-]ide a mother's knee,
And thus in looking back awakened into life
The higher, better self,
And caused it to reflect on what might be?
Full many a door hath woman’s hand unfastened,
That for long years did man’s bold knock resist.
And might have for all time since been unclosed
To gospel truth.
Had woman not been called unto the field.


[Column 1]
			MOTHERS’ WORK.
	TOOELE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			The life of the Savior.
	Lesson I. The Nativity.
	(a) Relate the circumstances which hap-
pened prior to the birth of our Savior.
(b) Who was his Mother, and where was
he born? (See Matt. I Chap.) (c) Tell
what other great man were born about
the same time that Jesus was. (d) Relate
some of the customs in vogue at the time
of our Savior’s birth.
	Lecture II. The childhood of our Sa-
vior.
	(a) Why were Joseph and Mary at
Bethlehem at that time? (b) Relate the
visit of the wise men and what guided
them to the birthplace, and why they did
not return to the king. (c) Of what
lineage was the promised Savior to be.
Matt, 11th chap. (d) At what time did
Jesus first speak of doing his Father’s
work?
	Lecture III. John the Baptist as a
forerunner of Christ.
	(a) Tell what the ancient Prophets said
about a forerunner of Christ. (b) When
was John ordained to the ministry? (c)
When and by whom was John baptized?
(d) What relation were John and Jesus to
each other? (St. Luke I Chap.) (e) Where
did John make his home when he became
a man? (f) How old was John when he
began his ministry? (g) Why did the
Jews believe in John’s ministry? (h) In
what way did John prepare the way for
Christ’s mission?
	Lecture IV. Baptism and Temptation.
	(a) Tell of Christ’s baptism and what
happened at that time. (b) By whom
was he baptized? (Matt. III Chap.) (c)
How old was Jesus when he was baptized?
(d) Did Jesus feel that he would fulfill
the popular expectation? (e) Relate his
experiences in the wilderness. (Matt. IV
Chap.) (f) What object did Satan have
in trying to tempt Jesus?
	Lecture V. Christ’s Ministry.
	(a) When was Jesus ready to begin his
public work? (b) Where did he first ap-
pear after his temptation? (c) What did
John testify regarding Jesus? (John I
Chap.) (d) Tell the first recorded sign
of Jesus power. (e) Name the 3 first dis-
ciples of Jesus. (John I Chap., 35 to 47
verse.)
	Lecture VI. His Miracles.
	(a) Relate the Savior’s first recorded
miracle. (b) What did the Jews think
when Jesus cured the man who had been
ill 38 years, on the Sabbath day. (St.
John V Chap.) (c) Tell what you can

[Column 2]
about the miracle of feeding the multi-
tude. (St. John VI Chap.) (d) What
other miracle was performed on the Sab-
bath day?
	Lecture VII. His Miracles (continued).
(a) Relate the miracle in which Jesus
made the blind man to see. (St. John
IX Chap.) (b) Tell of Jesus raising the
ruler’s daughter from the dead. (Matt.
IX Chap.) (c) Relate the raising of
Lazarus.
	Lecture VIII. The Parables.
	(a) Relate the parable of the Sower.
(b)What lesson does the parable of the
tares teach? (c) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the laborers?
(d) Relate the parable of the ten virgins.
	Lecture IX. The Parables (continued).
	(a) Relate the parable of the good Sa-
maritan. (b) Tell the parable of the great
supper. (c) Relate the parable of the
piece of silver. (d) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the prodigal
son? (e) What can we learn from the
parable of the unjust steward?
	Lecture X. The Transfiguration.
	(a) Tell who was with Jesus at the time
of His transfiguration. (b) How long
were they to wait before telling it to the
people? (c) What was God’s testimony
to the disciples at this time? (d) Tell the
most beautiful passage in the discourse
on humility and forgiveness. (Matt.
XVIII Chap.) (d) Tell of the feast of
the tabernacle where it was held, how
long it lasted. (St. John VIII Chap.)
	Lecture XI. The last Supper.
	(a) Tell of the feast of the passoyer,
Why was it instituted? (Ex. XII Chap.,
1-30 verses). (b) Relate the events of
the last supper. (Matt. XXIV Chap.)
(c) When and where was the sacrament
instituted, By whom was Jesus betrayed!
(d) Describe Jesus’ prayer in the garden
of Gethsemane. (e) How and where was
Jesus at last arrested. Tell the story of
Peter’s three fold denial of the Savior.
	Lecture XII. The Crucifixion and Re-
surrection.
	(a) Relate the incidents of His cruci-
fixion and the fulfilling of the prophesy of
Isaiah. (b) Tell His last words on the
cross. (Isaiah LIII Chap.) (c) What
did He say to the thieves on the cross?
(d) Tell of His death and burial. (e) How
was His tomb sealed. (f) Tell of the
stone removed, the resurrection proclaim-
ed.
			ALICE R. WOOLLEY,
						President.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg received
the largest vote of any candidate nominat-
ed for the Parliament of Finland by the
Old Finnish party.
	Senora Zelaya, wife of President Zela-
ya of Nicaragua, is said to have made 
herself the idol of the Nicaraguan army by
her active service at the head of the Red
Cross in the recent battles between the
Hondurans and Nicaraguans. She rode
more than 150 miles on muleback to reach
the scene of battle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LIFE AND DEATH.
So he died for his faith. That is fine—
	More than most of us do.
But, say, can you add to that line
	That he lived for it, too?

In his death he bore witness at last 
	As a martyr to truth,
Did his life do the same in the past
	From the days of his youth?
 
It is easy to die. Men have died
	For a wish or a whim—
From bravado, or passion, or pride,
	Was it harder for him?

But to live—every day to live out
	All the truth that he dreamt,
While his friends met his conduct with doubt
	And the world with contempt.

Was it thus that he plodded ahead,
	Never turning aside?
Then we’ll talk of the life that he lived,
	Never mind how he died.
					ERNEST CROSBY,


UNKISSED CHILDREN.
The world’s a rare and joyous place
	For those who deem it so;
With smiles enough for every face—
	This is no tale of woe.
But yet, when all’s been done and sai[-],
	Some little children creep,
At cuddling time, unkissed to bed 
	And sob themselves to sleep

Their daddy’s off at work, somewhere,
	Their mammy’s tired and worn,
Both burdened down with carking care
	From the first break of morn.
Each love-starved young one on the list
	Has troubles by the heap,
Yet each must go to bed unkissed
	And sob himself to sleep.

Oh, world of sunshine mixed with storm,
	Oh, world of tears and joy,
Oh, world of frozen hearts and warm,
	Oh, world of man and boy!
Less were your sorrow, less your dread,
	If, when night’s shadows creep,
Each little lad went kissed to bed
	And smiled himself to sleep,


ANNUAL DAY, MARCH 17, 1907.
	The Relief Society held its meeting in
the Central School house in Fillmore,
Utah. After the opening exercises, the
following program was rendered:
	Opening address, Stake President Isa-
bella Robison; Song, Helen Greenwood;
Reading, Clara M. Swallow; Address, El-
der Christian Anderson; Reminiscences,
Helen Callister; Recitation, Francis Ras-
muson; Closing address, President of Fill-
more R. S., Melissa Olsen.
	We also have to record the death of
Sister Maggie Starley while driving with
her husband—the horses became fright-
ened and ran away. Sister Starley
jumped from the buggy, her dress became
entangled and she was dragged some dis-
tance, and when Brother Starley—who
was thrown from the vehicle—reached
her he found her quite dead. This comes
as a severe shock to Fillmore, where
Sister Starley has lived since childhood,
and where she was much beloved. The
appended resolution expresses our sorrow
and bereavement.
	CLARA M. SWALLOW, Secretary.

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas, our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst ou
much esteemed and beloved Sister Maggie Wade
Starley, who departed this life April 14th, 1907.


And Whereas, our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a teacher in
the Relief Society of the Fillmore ward has so en-
deared her to us that we feel it necessary and be-
fitting to express our appreciat[-]on of her labors in
our Society, and of her earnest endeavor to do
right, of her strong integrity and faithfulness in the
Gospel, in which she was an earnest worker; al-
ways ready to perform any duty assigned her, no
matter what the call might be, Sister Maggie
could always be relied upon.
	She was a devoted daughter to her mother; a
faithful and loving helpmate to her husband, and
a kind, tender and affectionate mother to her chil-
dren.
	Be it Resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief
Society, do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister, and feel that it is hard to become rec-
onciled to her death, but are willing to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her mother, husband, and children,
and ask God to bless them and, cause them to
know that He is their Friend. Also that He wiil
comfort their wounded hearts in this hour of trou-
ble and sorrow.
	Be it further Resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society, a
copy given to the bereaved family of the deceased,
and a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				MELISSA OLSEN, President.
				ELIZA STARLEY.
				LAVALLA MELVILLE,
							Counselors.


To the memory of Mrs. Minnie Belle Ferris, wife
of Daniel Ferris and daughter of the late Robert
Till and M. A. Till, born August 3rd, 1866, and
died Easter Morning 1907, at the home of her
mother in Provo after a lingering illness of Brights
disease.
	She left a husband and three children; one hav-
ing preceded her; and many relatives and friends
to mourn her loss for she was beloved by all who
knew her; being of a loving and cheerful disposi-
tion and was faithful and true to all and to her re-
ligion, ever shedding a good influence and a help-
ing hand. 
	She resided at Mammoth, Utah, the last few
years of her life and among the floral emblems
was a beautiful Star on a pedestal from the Relief
Society of that district; and some members of that
ward came to attend the funeral showing marked
love and respect for the deceased. 
			ZELLA LITCHFIELD,
			MATHILDA OLSEN.
Provo, May 1st, 1907.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Another earnest, faithful worker in the Relief
Society has been called home to her rest. After
suffering for some time with pneumonia, Sister
Ellen Blackhurst McLelland passed peacefully
away on the morning of March 18, 1907, lovingly
ministered unto by her three daughters, who were
with her in her last illness.
	Sister McLelland was born in Longton, Lanca-
shire, England. November 10, 1837. Her mother
died in Winter Quarters, leaving the little girl of
eight years of age to be a mother to two young
brothers—one a young babe; and lovingly and
truly did she perform her part. On the arrival of
the family in Salt Lake City in the early fall of
1847, they made their home in the Seventh ward,
where she still resided at the time of her death.
While assisting her father in the Big Field to drive
away the crickets, her baby brother, who was her
constant charge, toddled to’ the creek and in an
attempt to obtain a drink, fell in and was drowned.
	Later she married Thomas McLelland, at one
time Bishop of the Seventh ward, and passed
through a full share of the trials and difficuties of
those early days. With ever a cheeful smile and
a kindly word, she gained the love of all acquaint-
ed with her. She always saw the good qualitie-
of others, and overlooked or did not seem to diss
cern their failings.
	A member of the Relief Society since early
times, she was always to be relied upon in her
duties as a teacher, and endeared herself to her
companions and associates, and the Relief Society
of the Seventh ward feel they have lost a stalwart,
faithful member and loving sister.
	The funeral services were held in the Pioneer
Stake house March 20, where the speakers paid
worthy tributes to her unassuming, patient, cheer-
ful life in all circumstances and conditions.
			ELLEN BROADBENT, President.
			GERTRUDE SAMPSON, Secretary.


A TRIBUTE
	To the Memory of five good women, members
of the Sixth Ward, Relief Society, Provo City,
Utah, who have past hence in about twelve months,
and whose demise we wish to chronicle in the co-
lumns of the EXPONENT.
	Sister Helen Alexander, daughter of Bro How-
ard and Sister Martha Corey, was well and favor-
ably known, was a very intelligent person and de-
voted to her family.
	She filled a mission, in company with her hus-
band to the Sandwich Islands years ago.
	She was a great sufferer before her death and
entreated God to release her from pain. She died
a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	Sister Elizabeth Cook Kirkwood, was a teacher
in our Relief Society and a member of the Old
Folks Committee whom she delighted to honor.
She was consistent in all her callings and much
respected by all who knew her, and was true and
faithful to the religion she had espoused and in
the sacred order of marriage.
	She was an example to her children and in all
her walks of life, and departed hence much be-
loved.

	Sister Maria Jones, daughter of the late Bishop
Loveless and his wife Josephine, passed away al-
most suddenly, although she had been subject to
ailments
	She was a teacher in our Relief Society, was of
a kind and loving nature, one beloved by a circle
of relatives and friends.

	Sister Eliza Barney Wilkins lived true to her
covenants in celestial marriage, was an affectionate
wife and mother, faithful Latter-day Saint, a
teacher in our Relief Society, and Chairman of the
wheat committee.
	Always willing to help in sickness and in laying
out the dead. She passed away in the full assur-
ance of a glorious resurrection.

	Sister Ann Palen Jones embraced the Gospel in
England and came to Utah in 1849, and to Provo
in 1852. She was not blest with offspring but was
a faithful and hospitable woman; she was called
to officiate as a counselor in the Relief Society
when first organized here. She was industrious
and indefatigable in all her dnties. She was pro-
verbial for carrying a well filled basket to the
needy and sick.
	She always bore a strong testimony to the divi-
nity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and lived and defended all the principle she taught.
She also did much work in the temple for her dead,
and died at the ripe age of eighty eight years much
respected and we her sisters have a worthy exam-
ple in her trust and confidence in her holy religion.
				ELECTA BULLOCK, President.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
				MATILDA OLSEN,
							Committee.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		HYRUM STAKE.
	Our Relief Society Confererence con-
vened on Saturday, the 17th of Novem-
ber, 1906. Two very interesting sessions
were held. We had a nice program of
lectures, instrumental and vocal selec-
tions, recitations and speeches.
	The reports of the presidents were very
good, showing the branch organizations
to be improving.
	The attendance both of the brethren
and sisters were large.
	One Society in our Stake (where three
members of the board reside) has paid
$839.00 toward the erection of a new
meeting house besides buying a granary
$240, of this has been paid this last sum-
mer. Three or four of the other branches
have done nearly as well and some of
them have a great many sick and poor to
take care of. This is the reason we did
not think it wise to make more expenses
for them than we need to.
	With kind love and best wishes and
may our Heavenly Father add his choicest
blessings.
			NELLIE E. PARKINSON,
							Presiden.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		May, 1907


[Column 1]
THE OEFICERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Dear Sisters:—I have a few thoughts
which I desire to give to you, my co-
workers, at this time, praying that they
may be helpful and encouraging to you.
	This is a society which, at its beginning,
had but eighteen members, but as an or-
ganization it was so rich in simplicity and
truth, so full of the inspiration of the
Prophet of the Most High, that it has
grown and increased until today it is do-
ing a mighty work in the amelioration of
the distressed, which is the mission for
which the Relief Society was launched.
Because of its mission to bless and re-
lieve, the work has been blessed of the
Lord, and it has found favor among the
Saints, insomuch that 35,000 women have
joined hands, laboring, not for the vain
things of life, not for honor, not for price,
but for the love of doing good.
	Before me I see my co-workers, the
officers of our society, whose countenances
glow with a spirit of strength and loving
kindness.
	I say to you, you are blessed in this
work, for it is ennobling. Each deed of
kindness will increase your power to do
good and will stimulate your desire to
perform the work of a Saint. Day by
day you earn your sure reward in the joy
and satisfaction of your heart for having
assisted one of our Father’s children.
	As officers of the various organizations
I urge you to make, by prayerful and
energetic work, a success of your par-
ticular field. To successfully meet all the
requirements of this great calling, one
must be “in touch” with the community
in which she labors, seeking always to
discover what will help and encourage,
and always stimulate to good deeds the
members of her particular society.
	There is nothing good, which is suitable
for woman’s work, that cannot be proper-
ly brought in the Relief Society. The
study of the best literature, sciences, na-
ture, cooking, in fact, the whole field of

[Column 2]
domestic science, child study, nursing,
home making, house furnishing. Ethics
Civics, Patriotism, Morals, Manners, the
Gospel, the Virtues,—all, all, and kindred
subjects are within scope of the Relief
Society.
	This true and this acted upon, no time
will be wasted, and there will be no
lack of interest and instruction and indi-
vidual advancement for officers and mem-
bers.
	The meetings should begin promptly,
and the business treated with dispatch,
the interest not allowed to drag, and after
all, the good Relief Society meeting is
only a means and not the end of this work.
If the meeting is, as suggested above it
should be,—helpful, elevating, practical
—it will find its way home with the mem-
bers and bear its fruit THERE, promoting
order, cleanliness, the virtues, spirituality,
and uniting the home circle in intelli-
gence, love and harmony.
	Sisters, that is what makes my heart
so rejoice today,—to look into your faces
and know that through your efforts and
those of the faithful teachers of our So-
ciety we may reach every home in Zion,
giving comfort and assistance or encour-
agement toward perfection.
	These few words may give only a sug-
gestion of what constitutes the “Field of
the Relief Society:” but I pray you may
be inspired to discover the greatest needs
of your organization, that you may grow in
usefulness and joy day by day.
	It is my wish that the organizations
should be conducted, as regards financial
matters, along strict business lines, and
that each officer should conduct person-
ally the affairs of her department.
	We are always willing to assist in all
laudable efforts, and while the building of
stake and ward houses is not directly in
our line of work, we consider it an honor
that the Priesthood should ask for our
assistance; and we should work assidu-
ously to be helpful in all matters where
help is needed.
	We should he united in the work of
building and furnishing Relief Society
halls; in building granaries and storing
grain; in assisting the Bishops to care
for the sick, needy and distressed; in
teaching mothers to rear and care for
their children; in cherishing the virtues,
fostering the fatherless, laying out the
dead, and all such duties, all this we
should perform cheerfully and in harmo-
ny with the priesthood.
	Any and all money received by the Re-
lief Society, over what is expended in the
work to which I have alluded, should be
kept as a reserve fund for a time of great
need, for we know not the day nor the
hour when some of our Father’s children
may be stricken by famine or pestilence,
or destroyed by the elements. We should

[Column 3]
stand united and ready to assist in every
emergency.
	In loaning money or wheat you should
be particular to get proper security.
	My dear sisters, in all matters pertain-
ing to the work, I rely on your judgment
and fidelity. I give you my blessing, one
and all, my dear Sisters, and pray that
you may be safe and well, and return to
your homes feeling renewed and strength-
ened in spirit, and finding all well. And
now again, the Lord bless and comfort
you and peace be with you.
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
April 8, 1907, Salt Lake City.


EIGHTY-FIVE YEARS YOUNG.
	The eighty-fifth birthday anniversary
of the remarkable President of the Gen-
eral Relief Society was celebrated this
year. May 3d, by her own immediate
family, at the residence of Brother and
Sister Joseph Fisher at East Mill Creek.
It was a happy occasion when she could
see assembled all her living posterity;
many of them being little tots, partici-
pated in the exercises of the day, basking
in the sunshine of her smiles and appro-
bation; over twenty great-grand-children
were among the number.
	The dinner was par-excellence, and the
ride to and from in a stylish automobile
was no doubt exhilarating. To most old-
fashioned people the new-fangled ve-
hicles are sort of alarming, but Sister
Bathsheba accepts all the new inventions
of the age without protesting. It must
have been a gala day for the little folks
and a very happy one for the fathers and
mothers, as well as the grand-mother.
	The Relief Society had to take second
place on the birthday this time, and gave
their party on Monday evening, May 6,
in the popular resort for festive occasions,
the Lion House. Preparations were made
by the committee for two hundred guests
and most of them responded to the invi-
tation.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was chair-
man and the program was in her hands.
The hall was artistically decorated with
flowers, vines, and flags; elegant rugs here
and there made a beautiful setting for the
guests.
	Sister Bathsheba arrayed in white silk
with elegant lace, looked every inch a
queen, her dignified bearing and gracious-
ness of manner, give her prestige wherever
she appears. Her daughter, Sister Clar-
ence Merrill, who is the very counterpart
of her mother, sat on her right, and next
to her, two nieces to whom she has been
sort of foster mother, Sisters Julina and
Edna Smith. President Joseph F. Smith
sat very near her and it was a fine picture
to look upon. Apostle John Henry Smith
of whom she is as fond as if he was her
own son, and who in return has great love
and reverence for her, sat near on her
left and others of her dear friends. Sister
Bathsheba verifies the saying of the poet
who wrote:
	“Age is opportunity no less
	Than youth itself, though in another dress;
	And as the evening twilight fades away,
	The sky is tilled with stars invisible by day,”


There was excellent music and a favor-
ite hymn sung. Then President John R.
Winder offered prayer. Counselor Hyde
opened with an appropriate compliment-
ary and eloquent speech very fitting to so
grand an occasion. The music was de-
lightful, especially the violin played by
Prof. Clive, his son Master Clifford ac-
companying him on the piano. There
were speeches and poems, one original 
“Old Friends and Comrades” by Emme-
line B. Wells, and songs and hymns, etc.,
but the best of all was the short speech of
President Joseph F. Smith in which, af-
ter telling a great deal of his boyhood ac-
quaintance with his Aunt Bathsheba and
of her remarkable life, he closed by say-
ing he hoped he might be pardoned if he
paraphrased a saying of Shakespeare-on-
man, using the word woman instead:

	Her life was gentle; and the elements
	So mix’d in her, that Nature might stand up,  
	And say to all the world This is a woman!

	President Smith could not have given
a higher tribute than in these lines. 
	Elder John Henry Smith’s speech early
in the evening was a glowing tribute to 
his Aunt Bathsheba and to his father’s
memory, President George A. Smith who
died over thirty years ago.
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
some of her very choicest selections and
was in excellent voice.
	President B. W. Smith herself res-
ponded in a few words expressing her ap-
preciation of the love of friends, and of
the Gospel and her desire that we might
prove faithful and true to its teachings,
blessing us all with peace.
	The exercises closed with a benediction
by Apostle George A. Smith.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.
	The seventy-seventh annual confer-
ence of the Church was one of very great
importance marking a mile-stone in
Church history in the line of progress, by
the issuing of an Epistle to the world that
set forth in plain terms the views of the
Latter-day Saints truthfully, and it would
seem that all honest men and women
might receive without prejudice such a
straight-forward statement, in the spirit
of sincerity in which it had been pre-
pared. The conference opened on the
5th of April and closed on the afternoon
of the 7th. Throughout the entire ses-
sion a spirit of brotherly love was strik-
ingly apparent and the large and crowded
congregations sat as if spell-bound. The
spirit of unity and of charity seemed to
pervade every heart, and the insructions
were all of an uplifting tendency.
	The music furnished by the choir
seemed to accord harmoniously with the
spirit of the Conference, and on the first
day when the President announced in clos-
ing his intensely interesting discourse the
presentation of a document, that had been
prepared by the First Presidency and the
Apostles and stated that it would be read
by Elder Orson F. Whitney for the ac-
ceptance or rejection of the members of
the Church that it might go forth as an
authoritative statement—the words
seemed to thrill the assembly and to re-
call to memory some of the momentous
occasions in the history of past events


that have marked indelibly the onward
progress of this people.
	After the reading, President F. M. Ly-
man in a comprehensive statement moved
the adoption of the document as an ex-
pression of the principles and policy of the
Church, and Elder John Henry Smith
seconded the motion in a few well-chosen
words, and President Smith called upon
all who favored the adoption of the ad-
dress to arise to their feet. In response,
nearly every person in the congregation
arose—and before putting the negative
vote, the President stated that the ad-
dress was only for the consideration of
Church members and, if there was any
present who were not in sympathy with
the contents of the paper, they also should
arise. No one responded and the motion
was declared to have been carried unani-
mously.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many things we wish to
write of and have not the space to devote
to, that we have concluded to mention
them briefly in order to let the sisters
know, that they deserve a place and a
more elaborate notice than can be given
at this time, but they are chronicled in
the hearts of those who participated in
the enjoyment of these notable social af-
fairs, that help the busy seriously-intent
women to have a few hours respite now
and then,
	Susa Young Gates, President of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was hostess at
a dinner given March 15, 1907 in the his-
toric Lion House to the officers of the so-
ciety, and as special guests of honor the
two honorary presidents were invited.
Bathsheba W. Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells. It is needless to say the affair
was in everyway up-to-date, but the most
enjoyable feature was the after-dinner
speech of the hostess, commending the
efficient work of her assistants with such
tact and skill in the use of language, that
it would have puzzled the most brilliant
woman there to have made a fitting res-
ponse.
	A very enjoyable Easter party was giv-
en March 29, in the far-famed Lion House,
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the president
of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake, the accomplished hostess; her
mother, Sister Susan E. Smith, seated
near her and her husband, Utah Senator,
W. N. Williams, occupying a seat of hon-
or, a man of liberal views; and as well as
his wife, a great favorite. The party was
given as a compliment to her associate
members of the Board. Among her large
circle of friends, special guests were, Prest.
B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells. The
table decorations were unique, and the la-
dies were curious to know what was con-
tained in the pretty ornamental basket
that stood in the center of the table filled
with daffodils and ferns, and yellow rib-
bons attached with a card indicating the
seat of each guest. However the con-
versation was lively and the courses so
dainty and numerous (served by pretty
little school girls) that there was little
time for guessing; but the surprise came
when the nest was reached and each one
found the ribbon of her card brought out
a “nest-egg” with a picture on it. Uncle
Joseph Young used to say, “every one

[Column 2]
had a nest-egg;” it proved so at this par-
ty and the affair was a brilliant success.
	A birthday party was given April 20,
1907, by the Relief Society officers of the
Salt Lake Stake in honor of their Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams, her Counselor
Hattie B. Harker acting as chairman,
the President of the Stake, Elder Nephi
L. Morris, giving her valuable assistance.
Many exquisite flowers were used in dec-
orating, and baskets of roses and carna-
tions ornamented the center table. The
program of speeches, recitations and
musical numbers was very finely ren-
dered, Miss Edna Harker’s humorous
selection was specially well done and
elaborately applauded; many heartfelt
encomiums of praise and commendation
were given Mrs. Williams; an original
poem by Hattie C. Jensen was one of
the pleasing exercises. The remarks by
President Joseph F. Smith were inspiring
and particularly affectionate towards his
cousin Clarissa. Other speakers paid
glowing tributes to the guest of honor;
the music was exceptionally fine; refresh-
ments were dainty and appetizing. At
the close of the party a great surprise was
sprung on Sister Williams by the presen-
tation of a pretty basket of exquisite flow-
ers by the Relief Society Stake officers
and on examining the contents, a dainty
little box was found in the center, which
contained an elegant brooch with dia-
mond setting, a sun-burst surrounded
with pearls.


PEACE MEETINGS.
	The interest of the world in peace and
arbitration and the desire to bring about
the good time so long foretold when men
shall learn war no more, seems to be
greater this year than ever before. The
people are becoming aware that the sen-
timent can be disseminated through pub-
lic gatherings in addition to the press. The
National and International Councils of
Women and other large organizations
have been making great efforts along this
line of work for peace ever since these
associations were organized, through
peace committees in all the affiliated so-
cieties.
	The Relief Society, the largest organi-
zation of Latter-day Saint women, and
the Y. L. M. I. A. have held meetings an-
nually thoroughout these organized asso-
ciations ever since May, 1899, and the in-
fluence must have been realized in the
various communities.
	This year an additional interest has
been awakened, and the Governor called
a meeting in this city, one object of which
was to organize a Peace Society for the
State. This will be a step onward we
trust in educating the masses, and those
of all faiths and creeds, the public gen-
erally.
	The meeting called by Governor John
C. Cutler was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city, Sunday, May 19, 1907,
at 3:30 p. m. The Governor himself pre-
siding. The Tabernacle choir furnished
music. Dean Brewster offered the invo-
cation, and Governor Cutler made the
opening address, in which he said: “I do
not need to tell you that Utah and its
people stand for peace, and that war is
abhorent to them. And I have called you
together in order that this fact which you


[Column 1]
know so well may be proclaimed through
you to the world. For if there is a place
on earth where the proper occasion will
be welcomed for turning swords into
plow shares and spears into pruning hooks,
that place is Utah.”
	“And now, ladies and gentlemen, in be-
half of the state, I extend to you a hearty
welcome; I ask that you give the peace
movement in general and especially to
what is done here today your cordial
sanction and support. I take this oppor-
tunity of thanking the various local or-
ganizations devoted to the cause of peace
for the effective work they have done in
this direction. To the ladies forming
these organizations the thanks of the state
are due. I am sure I voice the sentiment
of the people of Utah in saying in the
words of the great Sumner, “Let the
bugles sound the truce of God to the
whole world forever.”
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox made a very strong
and effective appeal stirring the hearts of
the audience by its simplicity and earnest-
ness. She closed with these words: “Let
us teach our children the love of peace
and not of strife.”
	Walter Wallace rendered a solo, “The
Lord is my Light.”
	Rev. Benjamin Young made a very elo-
quent speech and closed by paying the
American Congress a high tribute of
praise in forwarding the peace movement,
and to Thedore Roosevelt whom he felt
had done more than any man in this age
for universal peace.
	Elder John Henry Smith’s discourse
was a powerful one, and appealed to the
hearts of the people in stirring language,
he said in part, “It is the dream of all our
hearts that the day may come when the
children of men may sense their respon-
sibilities to posterity and the race, to be
loving and kind to their fellows, and when
all evidence of hate, of war and of vile
desires shall be banished forever. Then
shall the millennium come,” etc. * *
Justice and mercy shall be the rule.”
	Fred Graham sang a solo from Elijah,
“If With All Your Hearts.”
	Rev. Elmer I. Goshen, in his brief re-
marks likened the peace movement to a
king’s helmet which is in two parts, the
upper and lower, and explained that
peace and justice are the two parts of the
helmet. His reasoning on the subject
was very logical.
	Mrs. Plummer then sang, “The Flag
Without a Stain.”
	Elder J. M. Sjodahl, with some ex-
planatory remarks and suggestions on the
subject of universal peace and the evils of
contention, presented the resolutions to
be voted upon, and urged as a duty that
every good citizen lend active support to
the peace movement:

		PEACE RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That in the opinion of this
assembly it is the duty of the friends and
advocates of peace everywhere to unite
firmly for the purpose of co-operating in
the dissemination of knowledge among
the people generally of the great work
that is being done preparatory, we hope
and pray, to the dawning of the millen-
nial day, in order that interest may be
aroused in the efforts of statesmen and
liberal governments, that need popular
support for the peace measures that are
now before parliaments and congresses.
Be it further

[Column 2]
	Resolved, That, in order to give tangi-
ble expression to these views and senti-
ments, the president of this meeting, His
Excellency, Governor John C. Cutler, be
hereby requested to name a committee
consisting of seven members, the govern-
or to act as chairman ex officio, for the
purpose of considering and formulating a
plan of organization, proposing a consti-
tution for a peace society and naming of-
ficers of the proposed organization; said
committee to report to a subsequent
meeting to be called by the chairman.
Be it finally
	Resolved, that we, the members of this
congregation, hereby humbly express our
heartfelt gratitude to the Ruler of the
destinies of mankind for the spirit of
peace and good will that is being poured
out in marked degree upon all flesh, at
the present time; also our grateful appre-
ciation of the faithful labor for peace and
arbitration that has been done in this
state and elsewhere, especially under the
auspices of the ladies of various organiza-
tions.
	After the resolutions were read Elder
J. M. Sjodahl, in a very graceful and ef-
fective speech, moved the adoption of the
resolutions, and the governor called for
the vote, there was a full response and
the motion carried; after which His Ex-
cellency appointed a committee of seven
persons to take steps towards forming a
permanent peace society in Utah.
	Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered an organ
solo, and Elder Nephi W. Morris pro-
nounced the benediction, and the assem-
bly adjourned sine die. 
	Sunday evening conjoint meetings of the
Relief Society and Y.L.M.I.A. were held
in all the wards throughout the various
stakes and missions of the Church. Re-
ports of these meetings will be sent into
headquarters and a full report prepared
and forwarded to the chairman of the
peace committee in Boston, Mrs. Lucia
Ames Mead.

	THE HAGUE CONFERENCE.
	The Hague conference will be held this
year in a thirteenth century castle, “The
House in the Woods,” it is said will be
entirely too small, for the delegates rep-
resenting 46 countries. The Dutch gov-
ernment decided to fit up the ancient cas-
tle latterly known as “The Hall of
Knights.” It stands in the center of a
paved court, and is reached through half
a dozen picturesque portals over which
are chiseled the arms of the counts of
Holland. The hall in the interior is an
enormous one which occupies the entire
space within the structure in front and a
series of smaller rooms in the rear. The
large hall was the great banqueting room
of the counts and their knights, when they
made merry during the hunting season.
Here is where the sessions of the confer-
ence will be held.
	Since 1702 the main hall has been used
by the queen for the ceremony of making
the address of the throne to the houses
of parliament in joint session. The hall
has a vaulted roof with huge beams and
rafters after the Dutch fashion. The
desks are covered with green baize, and
the rostrum for the presiding officers in
front and at the back desks for the secre-
taries arranged in a semicircle. The whole
seems to be to bring the delegates as
close together as possible, for exchange

[Column 3
of ideas, the general effect is of rigorous
simplicity.
	The quarters for the delegates will be
something of a serious problem, as there
is but one hotel within the city proper
fitted for entertaining distinguished diplo-
mats. This is the Hotel des Indes, and is
splendidly appointed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the L. D. S.
Relief Society was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city on Thursday, April 4th.
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.
The music was under the direction of Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical di-
rector, and Sister Edna Corey, organist.
After singing “How Firm a Foundation,
etc.,” prayer was offered by Sister Re-
becca E. Little. Singing, “Where the
Voice of Friendship’s heard.” Followed
by a Greeting and Welcome from Presi-
dent B. W. Smith and response by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards of Weber Stake; a
beauitful baritone solo, “Joseph The
Prophet,” was exquisitely rendered by
John Robinson, the hymn composed by
himself.
	Remarks on Woman’s Building by
Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Reports were given from Blackfoot by
President Lucy A. Steers; Bingham by
President Elvira C. Steele; Fremont by
President Matilda Flamm.
	A duet “Holy Mother,” by Misses Car-
rie Carr and Esther Conwel.
	Reports from Hyrum Stake President
Nellie C. Parkinson; Panguitch Stake
president Hannah A. Crosby.
	A very beautiful violin solo was then
given by Prof. Shelton.
	Oneida Stake was reported by Presi-
dent Louisa B. Benson.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry gave an ad-
dress which dealt with the mother and
the home, very definitely.
	Morning session adjourned after sing-
ing “The Spirit of God,” etc,, and bene-
diction by Sister Rhoda Lyman.

	Afternoon session, President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Singing “Zion
Stands with Hills Surrounded,” etc.
	Prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing, “O Ye Mountains High,” etc.
President Smith again Greeting and Wel-
coming the very large congregation as-
sembled in which she pronounced a love-
ly blessing upon the sisters engaged in
this charitable and benevolent work.
	Sketches of eminent women were given
as follows: Emma Hale Smith by Julia
P. M. Farnsworth; Eliza R. Snow by An-
nie Wells Cannon, followed by the mag-
nificent rendering of Sister Eliza’s famous
hymn, “O My Father” by Lizzie Thomas
Edward. Sketch of Zina D. H Young
by Elizabeth S. Wilcox, and of Bathshe-
ba W. Smith by Julina L. Smith. These
were followed by a tenor solo from Prof.
Thomas Ashworth.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
spoke upon the greatness and grandeur of
the Society and its achievements, urging
the young women to take part in the ac-
tive work of this organization.
	Conference adjourned until Monday
morning at 11 o’clock to meet in Barratt


[Column 1]
Hall in a testimony meeting. Singing,
“Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”

	A general Relief Society testimony
meeting was held in Barratt Hall, Mon-
day, April 8, at 11 a. m., President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of Is-
rael.” Prayer by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert. Singing, “Come, Let us Anew.”
	The President made some happy re-
marks and stated that she had prepared
some instructions she would have read to
the Sisters; hoped the Lord would bless
us. The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
then read the paper. President B. W.
Smith’s Instructions to the Relief Society.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry announced
that Sister Smith desired the sisters to 
make short speeches and as loud as possi-
ble, and that the meeting was now turned
over to the sisters.
	Many strong testimonies were given,
mostly by sisters living long distances
away, calculated to inspire faith and
courage.
	A quartette was sweetly sung by four
of Mrs. Edward’s pupils, “Scatter Seeds
of Kindness.”
	It was requested that all who had per-
sonally known the Prophet Joseph Smith
stand. There were fifteen present who
had been acquainted with him.
	Morning session closed with singing,
“Lord, Dismiss us,” etc. Benediction
by Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	Officers’ meeting 1:30 p, m. in Barratt
Hall, President B. W. Smith presiding.
Commenced with singing “Come, Come,
Ye Saints.” Prayer by President Jane S.
Richards. Singing, “Do What is Right.”
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams then read
the address of the President of the Relief
Society. Sister E. B. Wells then read
the resolution in regard to the car-load
of flour to be sent to China, and spoke
briefly upon the matter and then offered
a resolution that the sisters tender the
car-load of flour to the Presidency from
their own store; the resolution was sec-
onded by Sister Clarissa S. Williams and
Counselor Annie T. Hyde, and was car-
ried unanimously.
	A young ladies’ chorus sang “The
Mother’s Lullaby.”
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the Re-
lief Society nurse work, giving good ad-
vice urging young women to take the
nurse course as it would better prepare
them for the duties of wife and mother-
hood, and announced the next nurse class
under the auspices of the Relief Society
would begin in September.
	Mrs. F. Marion Whitney Dinwoodey
rendered a beautiful contralto solo.
	Sister Emma Empey then gave a brief
sketch of the nurse work under her charge
for over seven years and how dear it was
to her heart, and said it was about nine
years since the work first started, the first
two years Sister Priscilla Riter had charge
of the nurses, and did very efficient work.
	A solo “Oh Lovely One” was sung by
Miss Dwyer.
	Report of St. George stake was given
by the new president, Emily Cornelia
Brooks; the Bannock stake was repre-
sented by Louisa Corbett; the Juab
stake by Counselor Amy B. Grover;
General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
spoke of a few items of business; first
asked all the presidents of stakes or their
representatives to stand, she said we feel

[Column 2]
that the past six months of the Relief So-
ciety has been very profitable, we want
to encourage the nurse work, as to the
Mother’s work the general officers and
board feel that you should make your own
outline, and in doing so choose simple
subjects and not questions that the sisters
cannot handle. A new field has been
opened up in some of the stakes, that is
special missionaries set apart by the stake
presidency to visit the homes in your dis-
tricts; we commend this work to you that
every home may be visited and young
women invited to attend and join the Re-
lief Society. As was read to you, we de-
sire that all your business should be con-
ducted strictly along business lines; let
each woman do the work in her depart-
ment. The Relief Society are going to
publish a history of the stakes and missions
and in the Circular letter, we have not
put all the questions necessary; if there is
anything of special interest in your work
put it in the report you send in. We
commend your good works; God bless
you. Amen.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry then read
the minutes of the first meeting of the
Relief Society from the original record,
and stated that Sister Bathsheba Smith,
as you all know, is the only living member
of the eighteen sisters present at the first
organization and I want her to stand, and
all say, Amen to my wish that she live as
long as life is dear to her, to testify to us
of this organization and of the mission of
the Prophet. Sister Smith rose up and
all the sisters said Amen. 
	Sister Mary E. Bateman moved that
the address by Sister B. W. Smith that
was read this morning by Sister Wells
and this afternoon by Sister Williams be
published in pamphlet form and given to
the different branches of the Relief Socie-
ty; seconded by Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth and others, and carried.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that a com-
mittee be appointed to wait upon the
President and acquaint him of the resolu-
tion passed about the wheat; seconded
by Sister C. S. Williams and others, and
carried. Sisters C. S. Williams, E. B.
Wells and Ida S. Dusenberry were ap-
pointed by the President to notify the
First Presidency of the action of the con-
ference on the matter.
	Benediction by a Hawaiian Sister, Mary
Lapa. Conference adjourned until Octo-
ber, 1907.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the forty-first Relief Society
conference of Uintah stake, held at
Naples ward, November 24, 1906, Pres.
Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises, Sister
Agnes Bennion welcomed the sisters, but
did not feel like she could report the stake
as she had not been home very much the
last three months.
	Lecture from Vernal ward Relief So-
ciety by Sister Mary B. Henry, entitled
THE HOME. Sister Mary J. Hards report-
ed Glines Relief Society, Sister Hannah
Odekirk Vernal Relief Society, song from

[Column 2]
Naples Relief Soeiety, lecture from Glines
Relief Society, “Prayer in the Home.”
	Brother Harden Bennion, counselor in
the stake presidency, thought the lectures
had been quite appropriate, also spoke of
prayer and home influence.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton was pleased to
meet so many here, as it was a very bleak
day and some of the sisters had many
miles to travel. She had been pleased with
the lectures and the other exercises. Re-
ported the stake in good condition, en-
couraged the sisters in their duties, and
spoke of the new tabernacle which is be-
ing built here.
	After closing oxercises, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Usual open-
ing exercises. then Annie K. Bartlett gave
a brief report of the general conference
of the Relief Society in October held in
Salt Lake City, spoke of economy of time;
also of faith, and of mothers going to
Sunday school with their children instead
of sending them alone, urged the different
presidents of the Relief Society in regard
to gathering grain for storage, Sister
Phebe Hislop reported the Maeser Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Praise ye the Lord.”
	Sister Sarah Pope felt to bless the sis-
ters for coming out to meeting such a
cold, bleak day; compared the time of
today with what it was in the early days
of the Church, gave a brief history of her
travels in crossing the plains, spoke of
the good times she had had in visiting
the different branches of the Relief Soci-
ety in the past.
	Sister Lydia Wall reported the Jensen
Relief Society and Sister Adele Huuting
reported Naples Relief Society.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley spoke of the
love fathers and mothers should have for
their children, make home pleasant and
teach them the principles of the gospel,
and live for eternity not for this life only.
	President Wm. Smart felt to congratu 
late the sisters in coming out in the in-
clement weather. He had been quite
interested in the remarks, especially in
regard to the rise of the Church, by Sister
Pope; thought the counsel given, if we live
up to it, we would be greatly benefitted.
Spoke of the completion of the tabernacle
in the stake, also on punctuality and waste
of time.
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their at-
tendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to be held at Jensen. Singing. Benedic-
by Brother Harden Bennion.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

		UNION STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of
Union Stake was held at La Grande,
February 14, 1907. President Mary Scho-
field presiding. Singing, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.” Prayer, Brother E.
L. Whiting. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Roll called and minutes
read and approved.
	Reports of different wards were given,
all in excellent condition. Much is being
done in regard to storing wheat, each
ward seemed to be anxious to fill their
share of the granary. All were interested
in Mother’s Work.
	Counselor Emily Bramwell spoke of
the growing good of the Relief work. It


[Column 1]
is an organization for the saving of souls,
and sending sunshine into the world. It
is a band of God’s handmaids so united
as to uplift the burdened and care for the
aged and sick, and in every way strengthen
woman kind.
	President Schofield spoke of the power
the teacher is in the ward, said they are
really guardian angels in a ward. Referred
to sending young ladies to be educated as
nurses, said it was effort that brought all
good things to us. The Relief Society is
considered as a mother to other organiza-
tions, therefore, should be very careful
in the example put forth.
	Brother Southwick said the way to
serye God was by doing our individual
duty.
	Singing, “Oh Jesus the giver.” Bene-
diction, Counselor Mary A. Southwick.
	Afternoon session: Singing, “Now let
us rejoice.” Prayer, Brother J. R. Price.
Singing, “Praise to the man.”
	Counselor Mary A. Southwick urged the
sisters to be energetic in following out
the instruction given in regard to storing
wheat.
	A chorus of young people sang “Oh
Galilee.”
	Financial and statistical report of Stake
was read.
	Missionary Sister Jordan was very
thankful for conditions surrounding the
stake.
	Lecture from Union ward, on Mother’s
Work was given by Sister Lewis, “Asso-
ciation of parents and child.” As a writer
is known by his works so is a person
known by his associates. As a fool is
known by his words so is a person known
by his associates, and the sorrow or
pleasure a parent could engender in a
child’s being was shown.
	Recitation, Kate Rogers.
	Bishop Geo. Stoddard of La Grande
ward spoke, read a part of the discourse
given by President Smith at the April
Conference, bearing on Relief work, ur-
ged the idea of storing wheat.
	Brother A. S. Geddes, said, stand by
each other, don’t look for faults; find good
qualities and enlarge upon them.
	Singing, “We thank thee O God for a
Prophet.” Benediction, Brother Thomas
Deakin.
			KATE ROGERS,
					Secretary.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Eureka ward, October 19th, 1906.
Nebo Stake Relief Society met in quarter-
ly conference at the meeting house. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Several
members of the Stake Board were pres-
ent. After the usual opening exercises
reading of minutes included, Sister Za-
briske, President of Eureka ward bade us
welcome, reported her second counselor
had moved away and that she would have
to resign on account of poor health, she
felt very sorry for this as it had been a
labor of love to her.

[Column 2]
	President Dixon was pleased to meet
with the sisters in Eureka, but sorry to
have to part with Sister Zabriske, thought
she should have more help. Spoke of
the care of the sick and the dead as being
a great labor; said the Relief Society
gave the sisters a chance to use every
faculty of their mind. More and more
improvements were being made. Gave
instructions in regard to holding officers’
meetings. We must make our organiza-
tion the best in the world.
	Sister Forcey reported Mammoth ward.
Sister Madsen reported Knightsville ward
all well. Sister Mary Brown said there
was no organization for women in this
Church until our Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society. Read a
portion of the minutes of the first organ-
zation. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel. Singing, “Come Let Us
Anew,” benediction by Fannie Simons.
	Conference reassembled at 2 p. m.
Singing and prayer. Sister Steele from
Goshen sang “High on the Mountain
Tops.” Sister Kapple encouraged the
sisters to study the Gospel; said that
revelations were given to enlighten our
minds. Spoke of a fund in Relief Society
to help the missionaries and their fami-
lies; said we must not neglect the poor
as this was our mission. We must set an
example to our children and teach tnem
the Gospel, and ask for the Spirit of God
to be with us.
	Recitation by Sister Poesom, “The Two
Portraits.” Sister Evans said she had felt
the Spirit of God with us today; said we
all had our talents, let us exercise them;
said our faces show the desires of our
hearts, God would know our intentions
whether for good or evil.
	Instrumental selection by Sister
Baughn. Brother Wallace said he had
closed his store to meet with us; had
been pleased with the remarks made to-
day. Sister Wall of Santaquin added
her testimony to what had been said;
spoke of Relief Society in early days.
Said that the blessings pronounced upon
her dying mother’s head by Brother Hy-
rum Smith had been fulfilled upon her
own head.
	Instrumental music by Sister Evans.
Sister Dixon exhorted the sisters in their
duties, to be loyal and true to their re-
ligion, to exert themselves and not shrink
from their duties; prayed for God’s bless-
ings upon us. Singing, “The Spirit of
God.” Prayer by Brother Wallace.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
	Cor. Sec. Nebo Stake R. S.

		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of the Mari-
copa Stake met in the Relief Society
Hall, Mesa, February 21, 1907. President
Melissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by
singing “Think gently of the erring one.”
Prayer Brother Mahonri Stuart. Singing
“Let Zion in her bearty rise.” Roll Call.
Showing all the Wards represented. Mi-
nutes of previous conference read. Stake
officers and General Relief Society were

[Column 3]
sustained by vote. President Melissa
Hunsaker made opening remarks, said
she felt to rejoice in the blessings of the
Lord. Knew the Lord blessed the Relief
Society work and its faithful workers.
	Reports from four wards were given,
all were doing as well as possible. There
had been much sickness through the last
three months. Both, teachers and mem-
bers, were desirous of doing their duty
and seemed to have a testimony alive
with in themselves that the Gospel is true
and this Society being organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith was one of our
Father’s purposes for the uplifting of
woman; and the Savior said where a few
met together in His name He would be
there to bless.
	Our brother speakers, felt to rejoice for
the inspiration that led to this organiza-
tion and that we were all the children of
our Father.
	One sister visiting relatives here from
Idaho felt to unite with the sisters in say-
ing that the Gospel as revealed by the
Prophet Joseph Smith was true, spoke on
prayer and teaching our children to pray.
	President Hunsaker made a few closing
remarks, thanked the brethren and sis-
ters, and hoped we felt to rejoice in the
words spoken. Hymn “Guide us, oh thou
great Jehovah.” Benediction Sarah M.
Pomeroy.
			ANNA E. FULLER,

		AFTON, WYOMING.
	Minutes of the Relief Society meeting
held March 17, 1907, in Afton, Uinta Co.,
Wyoming, Counselor Joanna Cook pre-
siding. Singing, “The Happy Day Has
Rolled On.” Prayer by Elder Clarence
Gardner. Singing, “Ye Children of Our
God,” etc. Sacrament was administered
by Elders Charles C. Leavitt and Steven
P. Gheen, and the exercises were then
continued.
	Remarks by Sister Cook stating why
we had met, it was to commemorate the
sixty-fifth anniversary of the organization
of the Relief Society, and she was pleased
to see so many of her sisters present.
	Stake President Alice J. Call said she
would like more of the young women and
girls to join our association and assist us
in this great work. She then read a
sketch of the first organization of the Re-
lief Society and the labors of the officers
thereof, written by Sister Anna Kenning-
ton.
	Sister Mary Gardner said the Relief So-
ciety was just  as important as any aux-
iliary organization, and was organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith for a good pur-
pose. There is a great responsibility
resting on us to look after the poor, to
care for the sick, and watch the young so
that none are led astray. We should love
one another and try to serve the Lord.
	Sister Artemissia Call gave a lecture on
“Charity.” Song by Sister Florence Lee.
Recitation by Sister Stella Wollenzien
entitled “Guilty or Not Guilty.”
	Sister Maud Burton said she dearly
loved the Relief Society work; she always
felt strengthened and blest by attending
the meetings. Elder John Nield said if
this was a sample of our Relief meetings
then he wished to attend more of them.
Elder A. R. Moffitt made a few interest-
ing remarks.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza Cazier.
		CHRISTINE EGGLESTON,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R.K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

