[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | April | Issue: 9 | Title: Land and Inheritances | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

	LAND AND INHERITANCES.
	In this wonderful day of great progress in
many directions of activity and skill, it may
seem undesirable and at any rate common-
place to go back to the subject of farms,
homes and grainfields an occupation much
neglected and for some years at least rather
unpopular, with the masses. Conditions
have taken such rapid strides forward that
the tillers of the soil are only thought of as
plodders, and in a sense by the larger num-
ber counted out of society.
	The first commandment given to Adam
after he was cast out of the garden of Eden
was to till the ground (and men are not yet
restored to Eden), and those who really en-
joy life most are agriculturists, they are the
men who are truly the most independent,
and in the course of events according to the
wise, the prudent calculators, and far-seeing
thinkers it will become a positive, necessity
to get more out of the soil to sustain human
life.
	As a nation we are proud of our college
graduates, professors, scientists, mathema-
ticians, musicians, etc., and the many more
who come to the front ranks, but they must
all be fed, and the soil must yield an abun-
dance of the various products thereof, if the
growing millions are to have plenty to sus-
tain life.
	The western land is productive and with
all the facilities of the present day, imple-
ments and machinery far more than was

[Column 2]
ever known before, keeping up a small
farm would be the best investment a young
man could make. The agricultural re-
sources must be developed and farms main-
tained, otherwise all else fails, there must
be bread for the multitude. We cannot be
ignorant of this great fact, that underlies all
human life, whatever else we may do with-
out we must have bread, the staff of life it
is the dependence of all progress, of all
prosperity and of individual existence.
	Doubtless mothers are as much to blame
as fathers in this regard, children should be
taught early not only that all honest work
is honorable, but that tilling the land is up-
lifting in its very nature because it is nearest
to nature’s heart.
	Out-door life and employment tends to
health and longevity. The idea that every
one must own land and cultivate it, was
largely general in earlier times, and in the
18th century in the Eastern States, a man
or a family who were not land owners were
looked down upon.
	The writer recalls the fact that in her
childhood people who lived in rented houses
were not thought on a par with others, now
the tables are turned, so to speak, and living
in crowded apartments without breathing
room scarcely is the height of fashion. To
have and to hold in one’s own right a home
and land gives one an independent feeling
of satisfaction, that is buoyant to the spirit
and soul. The scriptnral saying to sit un-
der one’s own vine and fig tree is significant
strictly speaking.
	The counsel given and the principles in-
culcated and acted upon by Brigham Young
in the settlement of those valleys was cal-
culated to create happiness and a responsi-
bility praiseworthy and beneficial to human
character. That every family should have
a piece of ground, a city lot, sufficient for
building a suitable home and a garden spot
and orchard. This policy was carried out
for rome years, not only was this wise and
expedient but profitable as well, and the
city was beautiful and attractive, artistically
so in the best sense.
	The great authors and statesnen in the
past, many of them have been men who
were fond of out-door occupation, one may
say, for relaxation perhaps, but positively
enjoyed it; it is well known that Gladstone,
one of the greatest statesmen of England,
was noted for felling trees. We as a people
profess to believe in the gospel of work, and
in short it is taught in the Scriptures and the
Doctrine and Covenants, and therefore we
must believe in farms and inheritances and
in owning land; we all know how fre-
quently the Lord has spoken to His people
in different ages of the world upon the sub-
ject of inheritances. It is not possible in a
short article to go into details on this sub-
ject but to sound a warning note to mothers
in reference to teaching the children in the
home, that farming is the one occupation
and that in which men can really feel the most
independent, and that farmers are gentle-
men. It is easy to recall the counsel of
Brigham Young and others on this subject,
especially when the mines began to be
opened here in the West, and how he urged
the people to stay on their farms instead of
running after gold dust. One of the greatest
writers of the day says:
	“Trade and manufacture however profit-
able must yield to the cultivation of lands
in usefulness and dignity.”
	If we go back to first principles every-
thing depends upon the soil; history points
to agriculture, and its varied losses and sue-


cesses as a powerful element in the rise and
fall of nations. The main reliance of France
is its fertile fields and gardens producing
agricultural wealth. It has been calculated
that the vineyards of France are more than
equivalent to the gold and silver mines of
America.
	The food problem is fast becoming a seri-
ous question, and it is not only essential to
our people to store wheat, but to teach the
children of today the dignity of farming of
tilling the soil, and beginning with garden-
ing on a small scale when they are very
young.
	These are merely suggestions, and we do
most earnestly entreat our sisters in the Re-
lief Society to persevere in their efforts to
store grain, and take precious good care of
the little we can collect and add to it as
much as possible while the harvests are
plentiful, and urge the youth of Zion to
maintain the possessions of our people in
the land of Zion, for the homes of the
people are the intrinsic wealth of the land.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


