[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | April | Issue: 9 | Title: A TRIBUTE. | Author: Unknown]

			A TRIBUTE.
	PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER.
	President Winder was not only a pioneer
because of coming early in the fifties to this
valley, but in many lines of business and
affairs in general, certainly one of the most
active, earnest and energetic men in the
Church. Sound in doctrine, and conscien-
tious in principle, fatherly to the young
men in the relations of advice and employ-
ment, all around enterprising and prudent
in whatever he advised or undertook to do,
and he engaged in many enterprises, and
carried them forward with signal success.
	So much has been written of him that it
seems only a repetition to add the little that
is now possible, yet we desire to give our
meed of praise, to a man who has done so
much to build up our commonwealth.
	He will be missed everywhere, in the
Church and in the state, his kindly face and
beaming countenance made one feel better
even to look upon him. Everybody loved
him and trusted him without guarantee, he
needed no passport for wherever he went
his manner and bearing insured confidence
and respect. He bore the stamp of one of
nature’s noblemen. Brother Winder really
lived the simple life, so much talked of and
written about in this our day. True to him-
self, true to his brethren, unflinching in his
integrity in the maintenance of justice and
equity.
	But President Winder has gone after
weeks of patient suffering, hovering as it
were between life and death, he passed
peacefully over to the “other side,” out of
our sight, and we shall see his pleasant
smile no more; until we too may be called
home, to join that innumerable company
who have gone before.
		“Beyond life’s toil and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be an endless life unmarked by years,
		One bright unending morrow.
		Ear hath not heard that song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”
	The eloquent tributes paid to the memory
of President Winder in the Salt Lake papers
and magazines attest the strength and
and beauty of his long life of vigor and use-
fulness in the work of the Lord in these last
days. He was permitted to receive all the
blessings and privileges pertaining to a ful-

[Column 2]
ness of the Priesthood and exaltation, and
how grateful his family should be that his
career in this probation has entitled them,
if they prove faithful, to a fulness of the
blessings vouchsafed to him. There is no
need to mourn, only to follow in his foot-
steps to reach the heights he has obtained.
The hymns he loved to have sung in the
Temple seem suited to him now no doubt,
“There is Sunshine” in his noble heart to-
day, he has met with his loved ones gone
before and “All is Well.”
	John Rex Winder was born in Biddenden
Kent, England, December 10, 1821. Died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 27, 1910.
	The funeral services of this remarkable
man were held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle
at 11 a. m., March 31, 1910. Loving and
eloquent tributes were given by those who
knew him best, and had been closely asso-
ciated with him, and every token of respect
and honor possible paid to him. At the
grave that glorious hymn “Rest, on the
Hillside Rest” was rendered by sweet voices
most touchingly tender.
	To the writer, the saddest and loneliest
one of all, bereft of his society and compan-
onship, is the young wife married to him
some years after he was left without a wife
in that lonely home; he made choice of
Miss Maria Burnham, and it really seemed
a love match, they were devotedly attached
to each other and she has been his constant,
companion, never leaving him for any other
society during the happy years of their
wedded life.
	Our sympathy goes out to this dear,
lonely wife bereft of his solicitude and com-
pany. 
	E’en if weary and broken-hsarted,
		With that which thou deemest loss:
	Although from thy dearest one parted,
		He will help thee bear thy cross;
	And if the ordeal seems cruel,
		Thy Father will make it right,
	And the brighter thy precious jewel
		Will shine in the realms of night.


[Column 1]
