Vol. IX NOVEMBER, 1922 No. 11 

CONTENTS 

Page

Bureau of Information, Temple Block Frontispiece
Jake Clayton 557
The Temple Block Mission Levi Edgar Young 559
Yours is the Right Bertha A. Kleinman 563
Prohibition Enforcement Clarissa S. Williams 564
A Modern John Alden Julia A. F. Lund 568
An Old Time Thanksgiving Helen Everston Smith 572
Be Near Me Alice Morrill 575
Utah Public Health Conference 576
Integrity—a Noble Word Jesma 578
Pioneer Days Laura F. Crane 580
My Little Friend May Booth Talmage 583
Words Grace Ingles Frost 585
The General Procession James H. Anderson 586
Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman 590
Editorial, Spiritual Status of Our Present-day World 595
Selection J. G. Whittier 598
Guide Lessons for December 599
Salt Lake City's Milk Supply Fred W. Merrill 609

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Utah State National Bank

The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.

Officers
Heber J. Grant, President
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier
Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier
John W. James, Asst. Cashier

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY

150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave $1.95
401 or 104—Light weight bleached cotton Ribbed $1.95
511—Heavy weight unbleached Cotton $1.95
911—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.20
911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton $2.25
635—Medium weight part Wool $3.00
845—Heavy weight all Wool $4.50
601—Lisle Garments $2.00
204—Mercerized Lisle $3.00

We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 911
Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c Additional
Garments marked for 25c per pair
Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra
Be sure to state size

THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.)
1069 E. 21st South
Salt Lake, Utah

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department
23 Bishop's Building
Prompt attention given all out of town orders

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER

Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Music Magnetizes the Home

The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.

$100.00 For this Beauty
Take 15 Months to Pay

CAPITAL $250,000.00
OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH

Mention Relief Society Magazine

It Is Noticeable

That Women who have a regular amount deposited in their household checking account each month are also maintaining a growing savings account. By knowing just what money they have to depend upon, they are able to spend more economically.

National Bank of Commerce
OGDEN, UTAH

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Latter-Day Saints Garments

LABEL IN EACH GARMENT

No. 104 Light Summer Weight Bleached $1.40
No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached $2.50
No. 150 Extra white Merc. $2.50
No. 111 Light weight, cotton $1.20
No. 120 Light weight, bleached $1.50
No. 160 Medium weight, cotton $1.60
No. 122 Medium weight, bleached $2.00
No. 117 Snow White Silkaline $3.40
No. 190 Heavy weight, cotton $2.00
No. 118 All Merino Wool $5.50

MODEL KNITTING WORKS
No. 657 Iverson St.
"Reliable Agents Wanted"
Salt Lake City, Utah

Phone Was. 1828

W. M. McCONAHAY
The Reliable Jeweler

McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere.

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Lillian Wirth Maternity Home

A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates

Call Hyland 606 for information
1820 South 5th East
Salt Lake City, Utah

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed, Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU SATISFACTION

Z. C. M. I. FACTORY MADE
Shoes and Overalls

Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Help the movement for Inter-mountain development.

RESIGNATION
Roberta Flake Clayton

Not as I will, but as thou wilt, O Lord.
Too long I've sought to follow in the way
My rash impulse has led me—now I pray
That thou wilt lead me in thine own accord.
So often have I felt that I was right
And that the paths I've chosen were the best;
I did not seek assistance. Nor request
That thou shouldst guide me and keep me by thy might.
So fain was I to follow pleasure's call,
Or seek for love I trusted would endure,
Or strive some admiration to secure,
I counted not the consequence at all.
But like a rudderless ship upon the sea
I come to thee, and earnestly I pray
That thou wilt keep and guide me in the way
That leads to life eternal and to thee.
Help me to place my all within thy care
And give me faith to put my trust in thee,
And every hour more nearly perfect be;
Lose my desires in thine, and live by prayer.

PRESENT BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Relief Society Magazine
Vol. IX - NOVEMBER, 1922 No. 11

The Temple Block Mission
Levi Edgar Young

The Temple Block is now a mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Like all missions, the primary object of its missionaries is to explain the gospel of the Savior of the world, and to disseminate literature that gives the principles of the religion we espouse. Unlike the missions abroad, however, the people of the world come to us the year around, and we are never without some one to talk to or converse with. During the past summer, we have often had over three thousand visitors in one day who have passed through the buildings, heard the organ, and have left the block with one or two copies of tracts, telling of our beliefs and hopes for the future.

Tourists love to see Salt Lake City, for it is the one city of America that has distinct individuality and a history that is interesting to all peoples. It is known the world over for its beautiful streets and trees; and now it is considered as a center of art. One noted American artist, Louis Potter, recently said that Salt Lake City has more individuality than any other American city. I believe that he spoke a truth that hundreds will agree with.

Like all cities of America, Salt Lake City has been a place where people could come and go as they pleased. Thousands of people from all over the world have walked our streets and many have studied the strange history of the "Mormon" people. "There is something in the history of Salt Lake City that is impelling," said one noted American, a few weeks ago, "and the story of the struggles of the founders, is one that should be known to the American people."

All kinds of stories were at one time told about Salt Lake City and the "Mormons." Twenty-five years ago, tourists coming to Salt Lake City when they were shown about the city were led to believe all kinds of falsehoods; and many of the old hackdrivers made their tales as sensational as possible. They played upon the credulity of the visitors, and thousands went away with weird tales of the pioneers and the people of Utah. It was at a time of religious prejudice against Utah and her people, and it has taken years of patient work to put ourselves right before the world.

One of the greatest agencies that we have had has been the Bureau of Information, which, since its organization in August, 1902, has been the means of distributing millions of tracts, and its missionaries have talked with thousands of people who have come here out of curiosity to see the "Mormons" and to find out something about their lives and ideals. Hundreds of letters have been received during the past two decades thanking the missionaries for their untiring work, and praising them for their zeal in explaining the gospel of Jesus Christ.

The Bureau of Information was organized as an institution by the First Presidency, August 4, 1902. The object of the Bureau was to disseminate literature and to talk with tourists on the beliefs of the "Mormon" people. Prior to that time, many saw the need of such an institution. As far back as the eighties, and in the early nineties, James Dwyer, the book merchant, went to the Temple Block daily and spent an hour talking with the tourists, and distributed among them copies of the "Articles of Faith" which he had printed on small cards. On the reverse side was a picture of the Temple Block, and the imprint: "Should you wish any further information concerning Church doctrines, please write James Dwyer, North Temple Street, Salt Lake City." We may say, and say with justice, that Elder James Dwyer was the father of the information movement in Salt Lake City.

From the records of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, which was presided over by Elder Angus M. Cannon, we have the following: "At a home missionary meeting, presided over by President Angus M. Cannon of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, November 30, 1898, Elder Benjamin Goddard, a home missionary, (the first and present director of the Bureau) recommended that some effort be made to place the gospel before the visitors passing through Salt Lake City. No action appears to have been taken at that time.

"At a home missionary meeting presided over by President Angus M. Cannon, July 30, 1901, Elder Ephraim Jensen, custodian of the Tabernacle, thought it would be a good thing to have some of the home missionaries or other suitable brethren appointed to preach the gospel to the large number of strangers visiting this city, some of whom seemed anxious to know what we believed in and to become acquainted with us and our institutions."

At a board meeting of the Y. M. M. I. A. Held Thursday, August 1, 1901, Elder LeRoi Snow called the attention of the members to the fact that something should be done to furnish THE TEMPLE BLOCK MISSION 561 visitors with proper information concerning Salt Lake City and the "Mormon" people. As a result of a resolution presented by Elder Snow, a committee was appointed to confer with the Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake concerning the matter. The committee consisted of LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, and Henry S. Tanner, and on Wednesday, August 21, these three brethren filed with the General Board a report of their labors and made certain recommendations.- A portion of the report reads: Elder LeRoi C. Snow of the committee appointed to consider the question of a local missionary work among strangers and visitors in Salt Lake City, reported that the committee had held several meetings and had consulted with President Angus M. Cannon, who expressed great interest in the work, and the committee recommended: "That a 'Bureau of Information' be established on the Temple Block, to be placed in charge of two competent elders, to be called. As regular missionaries, they to be supplied with special and general tracts. "That the necessary expense for starting this work be borne by the General Board. "On motion of Elder Edward H. Anderson, the report was referred to the General ag Ueicy—lneerdents Snow, Smith and Roberts."

After due deliberation by the First Presidency, the matter was referred to the First Council of Seventy, with recommendations that the First Council do something to initiate the missionary work on the Temple Block. Elder Richard W. Young wrote the First Council concerning the importance of establishing a Mission Hall and even suggested a place for such a building. This letter was referred to the First Presidency, and they decided that the "First Council of Seventy should consider the matter of organizing a Bureau of Information, for the purpose of imparting correct information to the tourists." A committee of the First Council, of which Elder Rulon S. Wells was chairman, immediately went to work, and as a result of their deliberations, the First Presidency of the Church approved the plans for a small building to be erected on the Temple Block where literature should be freely given to the tourists, and missionaries called to impart proper information to the tourists. The First Council of Seventy called the following brethren to take charge of the work: Elders Benjamin Goddard, Thomas Hull, Arnold H. Schultess, and Josiah Burrows. A small building was erected at a cost of $500, and the work of imparting information to the tourists was begun. The institution grew from year to year, until now, the little building of 1902 is replaced by a modern one of large dimensions, where there is a good museum, a large lecture hall, and places where 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tourists may purchase Church works and other books. Thousands of visitors come to the Block every month, and millions of tracts are given freely away. Elder Benjamin, Goddard has had charge of the work, and through his untiring efforts, the Bureau has become the largest missionary institution in the Church, and its influence for good grows with the years.

The Temple Block Mission is visited annually by some of the most distinguished men and women of the world. No one fails FIRST BUREAU OF INFORMATION to hear the organ and see the buildings. All are impressed with the majesty and greatness of the Tabernacle; all love the music of the organ. It is a well known truth that the Temple Block is a place where the artist may have his soul stirred to enthusiasm. The old wall around the block has lines and color that attract every body who has a love for the beautiful; the buildings are all distinct types, and the gull monument stimulates the inner feelings to a reverence for God and a respect for work and motherhood. Few places in the world are more interesting than the Temple Block. Its history alone shows the wonderful fortitude and bravery of the pioneers; it is the emblem of thrift and industry. It embodies the high ideals of culture of the "Mormon" people, for the buildings are expressions of a deep and idealistic religious THE TEMPLE BLOCK MISSION 563 feeling. The lawn and flowers tell the stranger that the Latter-day Saints are striving to make the earth beautiful; and they express something of their civic pride. The generation of men and women who built the Temple Block produced something of distinct importance; and out of them, during their time there sparked the creative impulse. "They dared to be themselves in the face of the gainsaying of the epochs of history," remarked one noted visitor recently. Today the Temple Block stands as a powerful encouragement of self-realization. It is the espousal of their destiny; it is something of the fulfilment of their lives. From the towers and walls of the great Temple, come a stirring impulse to build—and to build solidly. From them falls a breath—'a grandiloquent language''—a glory and a beauty that impel one to a greater faith in man, and consequently a greater faith in God. As one leaves the Block and wanders on up to the busy street, one feels the ever thrilling conflict in man's nature—the conflict of the spiritual and the material. Then, as it has ever been, and will ever be, one will again wander away from the busy world and seek the beauty and spirit of religion—the upbuilding forces that lead back to the throne of God.

YOURS IS THE RIGHT
Bertha A. Kleinman

You are not the wrong you committed,
You are not the evil you spoke.
And loathing the sin, God has pitied,
'And yours is the power to revoke.
You are not the fall that defamed you,
You are not the hurt and disgrace,
You are not the failure that shamed you,
And yours are the steps to retrace.
You are not the ills that assail you,
The blight of disease and distress,
And he, who abhors, will not fail you,
To pity and pardon and bless.
You are not the chances you wasted,
You are not the losses you rue,
For yours is the courage to face it,
And yours is the day to make new.

Prohibition Enforcement
Clarissa S. Williams, President Relief Society.

The passing of the saloon has been a beneficial social measure. With its disappearance certain undesirable social conditions have been removed and in a proportional ratio certain desirable social conditions have gained in strength. The elements that make for a high standard of living, both for the community and for the individual, have been strengthened. The prohibition legislation has made possible to a greater degree the attainment of the essential elements of normal life—economic independence, health, education, recreation, and religion.

In the opinion of the police department, physicians, social workers, public officials, and others who are in a position to make observations, social conditions, since the enactment of the prohibition law in Utah, in 1916, have steadily improved. There has been an improvement in the living standards of the working men. Workers have become more regular and reliable, and their earnings have been applied to the maintenance of their families. Visible signs of want have decreased, and men, long under the surveillance of the police and other agencies, have become sober and self-supporting citizens. A certain Mr. W., the police chief stated, was almost a permanent resident of the jail before prohibition legislation, and the members of his family were dependent on charitable agencies for support. Now he owns an auto truck and earns a comfortable living as an expressman; he provides for his family and is purchasing an attractive little home.

The health of the community has improved according to the reports of hospitals and physicians. Children are better clothed and fed, and as a result the community has enjoyed a higher standard of general health. The number of victims of alcoholism has decreased, although the few present cases are more malignant than they were formerly because of the inferior grade of liquor consumed. The educational improvement among adults has been marked by an increase in scholastic activities and by a greater circulation of books. That recreation has become more wholesome has been apparent by the increased demand for outdoor clubs and by the large attendance at public parks. In their new stability many wayward ones have responded to the appeal of religious teaching and have gained a guiding faith and a spiritual security.

PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT 565

Simultaneous with the strengthening of these constructive forces, there has been in the state a general decrease in crime. In Salt Lake City, the total number of arrests decreased from 9278 in 1916 to 7510 in 1921. (The latter figure includes a number of traffic violations of recently enacted ordinances, or the comparative figures would be more striking). The number of arrests for intoxication was 40% of the total in 1916, and only 8% in 1921. The number of cases of non-support and desertion has been reduced, and the number of children arrested by the police department has noticeably decreased. In both the Salt Lake City jail and the state prison there have been significantly fewer inmates since the enactment of the prohibition law.

Prohibitionists, locally and throughout the country, must not permit the current encouraging facts, which various surveys disclose, to act as rose-tinted spectacles, through which they can see no drab nor gray effects. Every observing and open-minded person realizes that alcoholic beverages are still obtainable in all parts of the country, and that various liquors are manufactured for sale and for private consumption. The practice of making intoxicating beverages in the home is a pernicious one. Such an infraction of the law has the unwholesome effect on the individual of making him an acknowledged law breaker and thus breeding in him a contempt for the laws of the land. That there is considerable traffic in the clandestine manufacture and sale of various beverages is obvious by frequent police raids and discoveries. These discoveries and arrests of guilty persons may represent, of course, only a small per cent. Of the number engaged in the illicit business. That these conditions were anticipated and are a natural incident in the adjustment period does not mitigate the seriousness of the situation It is somewhat early to predict if home brewing and illicit sale of intoxicants will be a protracted or a permanent problem. The degree of permanency and seriousness, however, will depend largely on the attitude and action of the public during the present stage of the prohibition history. Indications are that in Utah, public sentiment is strongly in favor of prohibition and against the modification of the Volstead act.

Acknowledging then, that the sale and consumption of liquor is not entirely eliminated, it is obvious that something more than printed words on the statutes is necessary to bring about a realization of the prohibition plans. Unless public conversion, moral sense, respect for law, and social sentiment become acting and potent forces, the prohibition legislation will not accomplish its full possibilities. If the breaches and 566 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE violations are ignored and connived at by public officials, it is only natural that illicit consumption of liquor will increase, and some of the old pre-prohibition conditions will reappear. The problem, then, assumes a twofold aspect, that of preventing the making and consumption of intoxicants, and that of developing a wholesome regard for the laws of the land. Fundamentally, the printed word of the law is not the controlling force. Laws are but expressions and outgrowths of the sentiments of the public mind. To be effective and efficacious a law must be supported by a general and wholehearted public approval. The law, of course, gives the prohibition movement a new strength. If the majority in a community have developed a sentiment in favor of law enforcement, violators are in danger of apprehension and conviction, and necessarily cease their activities to a large extent. On the other hand, a group of enforcement agents, no matter how zealous and diligent they may be in performing their duties, can accomplish but little in a community which, by the silent approval of the majority, permits the clandestine dispensing of intoxicants at restaurants, clubs and hotels.

In continued educational propaganda lies the only ultimate solution of the problem. Women can promote sentiment in favor of law enforcement by means of lectures, pamphlets, and by newspaper and magazine articles. An educational campaign may be conducted by them with a definite purpose of creating a sentiment in favor of a strict enforcement of the Volstead act. As a first step publicity should be given to the dangers of consuming "moonshine" and home brewed liquors. Such a series of articles as has been printed recently by Samuel G. Blythe, giving the chemical analyses of these concoctions and revealing the actual poisonous elements in their composition, should be effective propaganda. The more the public learns of the deadly activities of the butyl bug, and of the disastrous effect of the fusel oil and acetone contained in these home brewed drinks, the more abstentious the majority of individuals will become. An appeal more fundamental and permanent than the fear appeal is that of developing a motivating ideal. On a higher level than the individual who abstains because of physical fear, is the abstainer who is controlled by an active, realistic faith in the upbuilding and growth of humanity, and who, because of this ideal, refuses to dissipate his strength, his vitality, and his capabilities of appreciating the finer and more lasting beauties of life.

PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT: 567

From a confirmed personal ideal it is but a small expansion to a similar social ideal. If an individual develops a social sense he will desire to extend his own standards to the community group. Only by establishing high ideals and by creating a social conscience may the prohibition problem be brought to a permanent and satisfactory solution. Women in their organizations and federations can do much to establish proper ideals and standards and to extend effective educational propaganda. In our Latter-day Saint communities, one of our active principles has been that of absolute abstinence from intoxicants. Abstinence, to our people, is more than a social standard: it is a religious ideal and law.

Note: This paper was prepared by request for the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union.

MONUMENT TO EUGENE FIELD UNVEILED

A monument to Eugene Field, the "children's poet," was unveiled October 9, 1922, in Lincoln Park, Chicago. The monument was the gift of thousands of school children, who assisted by contributing their pennies to the Ferguson memorial fund, in financing its erection. The speakers were Rev. William E. Barton, and Melville F. Stone, of the Associated Press, who is a surviving friend of Mr. Field, and who was influential in bringing Mr. Field to Chicago while Mr. Stone was editor of the Chicago Daily News. Jean Field Foster and Robert Eugene Field, grandchildren of the poet, unveiled the statue. In the eulogy to the children's laureate, Mr. Stone said: "Tuning his lute to humanity's burden of care and grief, he sang the song of the helpless. He was notably the poet of sympathy. He was a many-sided character. He had a profound religious, even spiritual nature. The Puritan strain of his ancestry frequently cropped out in his daily life. Yet, over all there spread the warm, mellow ray of human sympathy which prompted some of the sweetest and most pathetic verses of our language. He sounded all the depths of tender emotion and voiced the agonized cry of bereaved motherhood and sisterhood and childhood with the tone and timbre and tempo of a master." The monument depicts a brooding angel bending over two sleeping children, dropping the flowers of poetry upon them.

A Modern John Alden
Julia A. Farnsworth Lund

"What's that you say about Utah and New England institutions?"

"Of course, we preserved them. Why shouldn't we? Many of us were from New England, of her very best blood I would say; and we brought with us the highest of her ideals, and perpetuated and fully developed them here in the valleys of the mountains. To the Puritans and their descendants, Thanksgiving was the greatest holiday of the year—a time of joyous festivity, in which every one must share, as well as a time of devout gratitude to God for his boundless mercies and blessings. I really am inclined to believe that we approach nearer to a correct observance of this sacred day than we do to any of the other holidays. It hasn't the spirit of vandalism of Hallowe'en, nor the boisterousness of the Fourth, nor the extravagant perversion of the true spirit of giving which has gone far toward spoiling Christmas. But then, you know, I have a very special reason for being fond of Thanksgiving."

"Oh yes, tell it to us again, Grandpa; a life story such as yours is far more interesting than fiction."

"Well, this little story is real life, of the time when the great west was being colonized and Utah was young. Crossing the plains in the fifties and sixties was not what it is now; you know nothing about the great American Plains. You have to cross them with an ox team to really know them. Think of it! In two days and nights you fly across a space of country that used to take us nine long weeks to travel.

"How did I happen to come west so early? Well, it was just this way. For some time I had been discontented in my New England home. Kate and I had come to look at things kind of crosswise, which didn't make me more content with my lot, so I just decided to pick up and go clear out to the far west. It was pretty hard to leave, and perhaps if Kate had given me a little encouragement, I wouldn't have left when I did, but I guess some would say it was my destiny, or something. At any rate, one morning in early spring, I said goodbye to my old home and started on the long journey down the coast from Boston, clear across the Gulf of Mexico to New Orleans, then up the winding course of the 'Father of Waters' to what was then called 'Winter Quarters,' in Missouri. From this place travelers started on the trip across the plains.

"At frequent intervals, there were companies of emigrant trains, and it was never safe to attempt to cross the plains except A MODERN JOHN ALDEN 569 in company with these trains, so I had to wait a few days until one left.

"Though it was always a journey of privations, often of great hardships, yet there was much real enjoyment to be had out of it, too. If only I could have conquered my intense longing for my sweetheart, Kate, I think I could have had a right jolly time.

"The train I joined consisted of about seventy-five wagons and nearly seven hundred passengers, who were expected to walk the greater part of the time, unless, of course, they were too young or were sick. This, that I am telling you of our company applies to most of the trains of this period. It certainly was a novel sight to see the train start out on its long journey with everything that could be packed into the wagons and everything else tied on outside.

"The organization of the trains was very systematic and complete. The officers consisted of a captain who appointed two aides whose duty it was to look after the comfort of the passengers. There was also a chaplain, a quartermaster, a hospital steward, a camp guard who had to look out for suitable camping places and guard the possessions of the passengers and preserve good order, and the night guard who looked after the horses and stock belonging to the train.

"The passengers were called together by the bugle, and the chaplain conducted religious services night and morning. During our hours in camp, we indulged in many healthful sports which did much to break the monotony of the long trip.

"At this time, I was, undoubtedly, what the westerners called a 'tenderfoot,' but I was vain enough to think that this applied rather to my ignorance of the country and its way, than to my want of courage, or my power of endurance. On my first entry into this western world, with its deserts, and its mountains, I knew that I had found my home; that is, the place for a home, provided I could ever find a girl who could make me forget Kate.

"I took up land for a farm and soon had it cleared of sage brush. Each day the determination took deeper root and lightened the hardest work; I would make a comfortable home here, and then go and bring Kate to it, for I could not help thinking she cared for me. You know, we pioneers were all public spirited, and at the end of four years had built up quite a thriving little settlement.

"The day before Thanksgiving all the men of our town had assembled to put the roof on our school house, so that we could hold a real public celebration, when the word came that the Indians had attacked the home of an isolated family living out on 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE South Creek, about seven miles away. The Ute war was at this time being waged in some parts of our territory, but this was the first occasion of real alarm in our parts. The word was brought to us by a boy, who had been at work some distance from the house, when he caught sight of the approaching Indians. He crawled through the high sage brush until he reached the pasture where he succeeded in catching one of the ponies. Then without saddle or bridle, and with only a rope to guide the pony, he rode rapidly to our settlement and gave the alarm.

"Never did a party of men make greater haste than we did in going to the relief of the besieged family. We all secured our horses and took whatever weapon came handiest. Talk about your minute men! You should have seen us go for the Indians, armed with guns, spades, and pitchforks. I had my blunderbuss, a most formidable appearing weapon, but it had this slight fault, that it was far more likely to kick me over than to send a bullet into the object at which it was aimed. In this case, I trusted to appearances.

"The captain of our militia went up in his buggy and took the surgeon with him for we feared there might be wounds to dress. Not much can be said of our order of march, but we certainly advanced. My pony was a good one, so I was among the first to reach the scene of action. On seeing several horsemen approach, the Indians took fright and made a hasty retreat into the neighboring mountains where we were not prepared to follow them.

"All we knew of the people we had come to rescue was that they had recently moved into our territory, coming through the northeast, and had taken up land on South Creek. The one story house was built of green logs, but it had a lumber roof, which the Indians had attempted to set on fire. We were very happy to find that none of the family had been injured, but two Indians lay dead in front of the house.

"I happened to dismount near the window of the house, and as I looked in, the shock I received was much greater than the one occasioned by the prospect of an Indian fight. I wondered if I hadn't used my blunderbuss with the usual result, except that in this case, I had been 'kicked' clear into another state of existence; for without doubt, there stood Kate at the window, looking out with her sweet, scared eyes.

"I must have looked dazed myself, for I seemed to hear one of the boys say, 'What's the matter? There's no need to look so scared now. The Indians have all gone.'

"Then I heard a man's voice saying to our captain, "Thank you, very, very much for coming to our assistance. We made a good defense, but could not have held out much longer. I happened to see the Indians while they were at some little distance, so that gave us all time to take refuge in this room; all except my boy, Frank, who carried the word to you. We closed the door and window and as often as the savages tried to break in, I fired, so no doubt, I am responsible for the death of those two out there. My niece, Kate, loaded my pistol as I emptied the gun. Fortunately there were some barrels of water that I had brought in for washing, With this my wife fought the fire, and when the water gave out, she used the milk we had. But you arrived just in the nick of time. Come in and receive thanks from the ladies. God bless them! These are new and hard experiences for them!'

"Then I collected my scattered senses and made a rush for the window. Never mind what I said to Kate or what she said to me at that meeting. I couldn't tell you, even if I wished. My joy at seeing her was so great that I did not even think of asking her how she came to be way out in the western wilderness.

"There is only one thing that I remember clearly and that was a resolve, made on the spot, that she should never have another experience like the one through which she had just passed. It was decided that the family should return with us to our settlement and remain there until the Indian troubles were over.

"That evening I said to Kate, 'Are you still as undecided as when I left you?'

"She raised her sweet, true eyes to mine, and I wanted to fall down and worship her when she answered, 'I was never undecided, dear, but I could not leave my father. It was not that he thought you unworthy, but he did not wish me to marry, nor to care for any one more than I did for him. I dared not tell you that he stood between us, so I had to act as I did, and give you a wrong impression. After father died, I was all alone and I went to live with my Uncle John, because I knew he intended to come west. My heart told me that, in spite of all, you still loved me. I thought, perhaps, we might meet, so that has made me strong enough to endure cheerfully all the trials of this frontier life.'

"Then, well, I just told her, in my own way, that my home was waiting for her and that the future held no trials which we could not share together. We felt ourselves most literally, if not lineally, the descendants of Priscilla Mullins and John Alden, and we 'touched hands' with them after a lapse of nearly three centuries. We, in this western frontier, were merely carrying forth the work they had so nobly begun in the wilds of New England. The same devotion to principle and love of religious liberty, the same courageous fortitude in facing the trials of life in a new world, were ours; and that Thanksgiving Day, in 1851, was observed in exactly the same way as was that in Plymouth in 1621.

An Old Time Thanksgiving
Helen Everston Smith
(Copyright, 1910, Moffat, Yard & Co., New York, Reprinted in the Relief Society Magazine by courtesy of the publishers.)

The following account of a Thanksgiving dinner in 1779 is given in a letter of Juliana Smith's, copied by her into her diary—a praiseworthy practice not uncommon, when letters were written with care and might easily be lost in transmission. This letter was addressed to its writer's "Dear Cousin Betsey." Who the latter may have been, I do not know, but presume that she was a daughter of the Rev. C. M. Smith's elder brother, Dan. After the usual number of apologies for delay in writing, Juliana proceeds:

"When Thanksgiving Day was approaching, our dear Grandmother Smith (nee Jerusha Mather, great-granddaughter of the Rev. Richard Mather of Dorchester, Massachusetts) who is sometimes a little desponding of spirit as you well know, did her best to persuade us that it would be better to make it a Day of Fasting & Prayer in view of the Wickedness of our Friends &c. The Vileness of our Enemies, I am sure you can hear Grandmother say that and see her shake her cap border. But indeed there was some occasion for her remarks, for our resistance to an unjust Authority has cost our beautiful Coast Towns very dear the last year & all of us have had much to suffer. But my dear Father brought her to a more proper frame of Mind, so that by the time the Day came she was ready to enjoy it almost as well as Grandmother Worthington did, & she, you will remember, always sees the bright side. In the mean while we had all of us been working hard to get all things in readiness to do honour to the Day.

"This year it was Uncle Simeon's turn to have the dinner at his house, but of course we all helped them as they help us when it is our turn, & there is always enough for us all to do. All the baking of pies & cakes was done at our house & we had the big oven heated & filled twice each day for three days before it was all done, & everything was GOOD, though we did have to do without some things that ought to be used. Neither Love nor (paper) Money could buy Raisins, but our good red Cherries dried without pits, did almost as well & happily Uncle Simeon still had some spices in store. The tables were set in the Dining Hall and even that big AN OLD TIME THANKSGIVING 573 room had no space to spare when we were all seated. The Servants had enough ado to get around the Tables & serve us all without over-setting things. There were our two Grandmothers side by side. They are always handsome old Ladies, but now, many thought, they were handsomer than ever, & happy they were to look around upon so many of their descendants. Uncle & Aunt Simeon presides at one Table, & Father & Mother at the other. Besides us five boys & girls there were two of the Gales & three Elmers, besides James Browne & Ephraim Cowles. (Five of the last-named seven, were orphans taught and in all ways provided for by Parson & Mrs. Smith.) We had them at our table because they could be best supervised there. Most of the students had gone to their own homes for the weeks, but Mr. Skiff and Mr.—, (name illegible) were too far away from their homes. They sat at Uncle Simeon's table & so did Uncle Paul and his family, five of them in all, & Cousins Phin & Poll (probably Phineas and Apollos Smith, sons of Dan). Then there were six of the Livingston family next door. They had never seen a Thanksgiving Dinner before, having been used to keep Christmas Day instead, as is the wont in New York & Province. Then there were four Old Ladies who have no longer Homes or Children of their own & so came to us. They were invited by my Mother, but Uncle and Aunt Simeon wished it so.

"Of course we could have no Roast Beef. None of us have tasted Beef this three years back as it all must go to the Army, & too little they get, poor fellows. But Nayquittymaw's Hunters were able to get us a fine red Deer, so that we had a good haunch of Venison on each table. These were balanced by huge Chines of Roast Pork at the other ends of the Tables. Then there was on one a big Roast Turkey & on the other a goose, & two big Pigeon Pasties. Then there was an abundance of good Vegetables of all the old Sorts & one which I do not believe you have yet seen. Uncle Simeon had imported the Seed from England just before the War began & only this Year was there enough for Table use. It is called Sellery & you eat it without cooking. It is very good served with meats. Next year Uncle Simeon says he will be able to raise enough to give us all some. It has to be taken up, roots & all & buried in earth in the cellar through the winter & only pulling up some when you want it to use.

"Our Mince Pies were good although we had to use dried Cherries as I told you, & the meat was shoulder of Venison, instead of beef. The Pumpkin Pies, Apple Tarts & big Indian Puddings lacked for nothing save Appetite by the time we got round to them.

"Of course we had no Wine. Uncle Simeon has still a cask or two, but it must all be saved for the sick, & indeed, for those 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who are well, good Cider is a sufficient Substitute. There was no Plumb Pudding, but a boiled Suet Pudding, stirred thick with dried Plumbs & Cherries, was called by the old Name & answered the purpose. All the other spice had been used in the Mince Pies, so for this Pudding we used a jar of West India preserved Ginger, which chanced to be left from the last shipment which Uncle Simeon had from there, we chopped the Ginger small and stirred it through with Plumbs and Cherries. It was extraordinary good. The Day was bitter cold & when we got home from Meeting, which Father did not keep over long by reason of the cold, we were glad eno' for the fire in Uncle's Dining Hall but by the time the dinner was one-half over those of us who were on the fire side of one Table was forced to get up & carry our plates with us around to the far side of the other table, while those who had sat there were as glad to bring their plates around to the fire side to get warm. All but the Old Ladies who had a screen put behind their chairs."

Here it may be allowed to break in upon Juliana's narrative to explain that the hall in which this dinner was laid, now long used as a kitchen, is a room about thirty feet long from north to south and twenty-two feet wide. A glazed door and a window open upon piazzas from each end. On the western side a broadly hospitable door opens into the staircase hall of the main building, while in the dining-room itself another flight of stairs ascended from the same side to the wing's chambers. On the eastern side is the immense chimney where once yawned a fireplace that "would comfortably hold a full sled load of eight foot logs." With such a fire it is no wonder that the guests seated near to it were glad to exchange places with the others, who—probably half freezing— were on the other side of the room. When I was about seven or eight years old the heavy ceiling beams, darkened with age and smoke, were hidden away from view by a plaster ceiling. I pleaded in vain for the "pretty brown beams" to be left in sight, but my grandmother was inflexible, and no doubt, in the interest of comfort for her servants, she was quite right to close the drafty fireplace and lower the lofty ceiling. Nevertheless it was a pity, and I have never ceased to regret it.

"Uncle Simeon," proceeds Juliana, "was in his best mood, and you know how good that is. He kept both Tables in a roar of laughter with his droll stories of the days when he was studying medicine in Edinborough, & afterwards he & Father & Uncle Paul joined in singing hymns & Ballads. You know how fine their voices go together. Then we all sang a hymn and afterwards my dear Father led us in prayer, remembering all Absent Friends before AN OLD TIME THANKSGIVING 575 the Throne of Grace, & much I wished that my dear Betsey was here as one of us, as she has been of yore.

"We did not rise from the Table until it was quite dark, & then when the dishes had been cleared away we all got round the fire as close as we could, & cracked nuts, & sang songs & told stories. At least some told & others listened. You know nobody can exceed the two Grandmothers at telling tales of all the things they have seen themselves, & repeating those of the early years in New England, & even some in the Old England, which they had heard in their youth from their Elders. My father says it is a goodly custom to hand down all worthy deeds & traditions from Father to Son, as the Israelites were commanded to do about the Passover & as the Indians here have always done, because the Word that is spoken is remembered longer than the one that is written * * * Brother Jack, who did not reach here until late. On Wednesday though he had left College very early on Monday Morning & rode with all due diligence considering the snow, brought an orange to each of the Grandmothers, but Alas! They were frozen in his saddle bags. We soaked the frost out in cold water, but I guess they wasn't as good as they should have been?"

BE NEAR ME
Alice Morrill

Be near, my friend, for in that hour
When thy soul touches mine,
Sweet inspiration erst unknown,
A courage half divine,
Bids me look up past gathering mists
To brightening skies above.
Be near me; let my spirit feel
The magic of thy love.

Stay near, my friend, go not away;
My soul is knit to thine.
When thou art near, there is no death
But only rest sublime.
There is no darkness, and no chill,
But only warmth and light.
Sit close, dear heart, and hold my hand
I see the radiant light!

Utah Public Health Conference

The fifth annual conference of the Utah Public Health Association, was held on October 5 in the Hotel Utah. The Utah Public Health Association is an auxiliary of the National Tuberculosis Association, and is financed exclusively by the sale of the penny Christmas seals. The Association has been organized to promote better health conditions in the state, and is paying particular attention to the fight against tuberculosis, disseminating knowledge concerning the nature, treatment and prevention of this cruel disease.

At this conference, doctors, nurses, welfare workers and others interested in health problems, were in attendance, representing the various cities of the state. Morning and afternoon sessions were held, and a "Get Acquainted" luncheon was arranged for the noon hour. Besides an Address of Welcome, by the acting chairman, Dr. H. G. Merrill, of Provo, the following addresses were made during the day: "A Year's Activities,' James H. Wallis, Executive Secretary; "The Tuberculosis Situation in Utah," Dr. Warren A. Colton, U. S. Public Health Service; "The Sanatorium in the Tuberculosis Campaign," Dr. H. A. Pattison, Medical Director, National Tuberculosis Association, New York City; "Use of Statistics in Securing Legislation for Sanatoria," Miss Jessamine S. Whitney, Statistician, National Tuberculosis Association, New York City; "Retrospection," Miss Kate Williams; "A Year's Attempt at Co-operation," Surgeon C. P. Knight, U. S. Public Health Service; "The Crusade in the Lower Grades," Dr. E. G. Gowans; "Attitude of the University Toward a Standard Course in Public Health Nursing," Dr. George Thomas, President University of Utah; "Utah's Program Under the Sheppard-Towner Act," Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner; "Need of Standards for Public Health Nursing," Miss Mollie E. Utz, R. N., Supervising Nurse, Utah Public Health Association; "Health Education in Our Public Schools," Dr. C. N. Jensen, State Superintendent Public Instruction.

Significant facts of the tuberculosis situation in Utah were disclosed in the reports made by the physicians and by Secretary James H. Wallis, of the Utah Public Health Association. A traveling clinic which was financed, by this Association and conducted in co-operation with the U. S. Public Health Service and the State Board of Health has made a survey of the state. The purpose of the clinic has been to discover the actual number of cases of tuberculosis; to give general information to UTAH PUBLIC HEALTH CONFERENCE 577 the patients as to their care; and to advise them of the need of medical attention in order to receive necessary treatment and to prevent the further spread of the disease. The clinic has been held in ninety-six cities. Twenty-four of the twenty-nine counties of the state have been visited. This does not include Salt Lake City and County. The report of the clinic on June 1 showed that there are in Utah 542 cases of tuberculosis; 219 active and 323 quiescent. Of the total number sixty-nine per cent are native-born Utahns and only six and seven-tenths percent have been in the state less than ten years In the past six years there have been 1163 deaths from tuberculosis in the state.

The speakers emphasized the need of a tuberculosis sanatorium in the state, calling attention to the fact that Utah is one of five states that has no sanatorium nor any hospital provision to care for tuberculosis patients. While in most of the other states the morbidity and mortality rates of this disease have decreased, in Utah there has been an increase in both the number of cases and the number of deaths. Dr. Pattison, Medical Director of the National Tuberculosis Association pointed out the fact that there is always a decrease in the number of cases of tuberculosis when hospital facilities are provided, and that there is a proportionate increase in the spread of the disease if the community does not extend medical care and supervision. A sanatorium should function, Dr. Pattison said, not only as a hospital for patients where expert medical and nursing attention is given, but as a center for preventive work. By means of a clinical and nursing service, new cases can be discovered in the early stages of development, and educational and preventive work can be done in the homes to check the spread of the disease. The fact that seventy-five percent of the cases can be cured should be most encouraging to those afflicted with the disease and should be an incentive to the public to promote, vigorously, a scientific health campaign. Dr. Pattison stated that because of the social hazards of the disease, it is as much the duty of the state to assume the responsibility of providing care, as it is its duty to care for the insane, or to equip an adequate fire department.

Integrity---a Noble Word
Jesma

Among the virtues that most of us profess to admire, if indeed we hesitate to make positive claim to possession, are honesty, veracity, honor, uprightness, and truthfulness in general. As to the words themselves, it is interesting to note that to each of these nouns there is a corresponding adjective, thus: honest, veracious, honorable, upright, and true. These specific elements of goodness are components of something superior to any one virtue or worthy attribute, and the sum of them all is integrity. To the noun last used there is no adjective in our rich English tongue, save the rare and almost forgotten "integritive.' To express the thought that one is worthy of this title or honor, we must use the whole noun. If it can be said truthfully of one—he is a man of strict integrity—that man is true in all that he knows to be good. Integrity is made superior to honesty, veracity, or other related virtues, by the simple truth that the whole is greater than any of its parts. The dictionary gives us this definition —'Integrity: uprightness of character and soundness of moral principle." Please observe that character is specified, not mere reputation. It has been wisely said that reputation is what people think and say about us, and character is what God knows about us. Yet, woeful fact! Too many of us go through life well satisfied with ourselves if we have been able to make people believe that we really are what we seem to be. In the serious moments of solitude, when we turn our eyes inward and view ourselves as best we may, how can we hope to feel the thrill that comes with the sense of self respect, when we know that we are pretenders only? How can we be faithful to others if we are recreant to our better selves? And the reverse is implied in the oft-quoted but never trite admonition of Shakespeare's character, Polonius, to his departing son:

"To thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then: be false to any man."

Then arises the self-assertive question—how can one who to himself is untrue, be true to his God? It is easy and tempting to enwrap our consciences with excuses, though they be as thin as gossamer, when we stoop from the plane of real integrity; then follows the descending step; and, having started downward, we continue—whither? What about that unpaid car-fare? Think of it! People

PIONEER DAYS 581

the farm, usually done by the women—making butter, raising chickens, pumping water, milking cows, hitching horses and driving to town for groceries, was too much for this child who had only seen horses at a distance, and knew nothing about cows. She had been reared with a book in her hand, so she had read and heard much about those fearless pioneers and she had spent much time while in the lavas in comparing her life with theirs. She pictured the rugged men, saying to their courageous wives, as they built crude dwellings on the sage brush land, "This is the place where we shall live.' Oh my, those pioneer women were wonderful! So she spoke and thought as they wound farther and farther into the hills. Soon they reached a big, open space and the boy decided it was a good place to camp. They stopped and unhitched. The girl was much interested as he tied the front legs of the horses, explaining that this was just a precautionary measure. The horses were two of the best on the farm. He said he would feel safer, if he had to go far out of sight, if he knew the horses could not run. "You know," he said, "if the horses get away, you would have to walk these eighteen miles home or stay here after dark alone while I went for help. So you keep your eye on the horses. Keep them headed away from the trail to the road and they will be all right."

The girl had had no experience whatever with horses. She was really afraid of them. She had only come on this trip because she knew they would go slowly. She realized that she was somewhat nervous. At any rate she was glad the horses were hobbled. They fixed a comfortable little camp, and after eating the luncheon she had prepared, the boy took his ax and climbed up onto the hill, calling as he left, "Be sure to watch the horses." The girl cleared the luncheon, and fixing a seat in the shade opened her bag and began to work on the garments she had come to love so much. Working fast, the boy cleared the best poles around the rim of the dell where they were camped. Then he worked farther back. He planned to cut thirty or forty poles, then tie them together and drag them down. The regular thud of the ax became less and less distinct and soon all was still except for the sound of the horses as they munched the grass. Shadows were beginning to lengthen, Suddenly, without warning, the horses with wild rears started through the sage brush. She was frightened but thought that since they were hobbled she could easily catch them. She ran as fast as she could. One of the horses stopped long enough to turn and see her coming, then on again he went at fearful jumps and leaps.

582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

She ran on calling, "Whoa, whoa, whoa," but driven on by thirst, and maddened with the hobbles, they had no intention to stop. It seemed as if they were headed for the ends of the earth. The girl stopped and fell to her knees, and in sobbing supplication asked her heavenly Father to help her. In an instant, as if those animals had been struck by lightning, they stopped dead still. The girl was amazed and wondered what they could have seen or heard that could so affect them. She, too, stopped. The horses turned and saw her but made no effort to move. She approached them, telling them gently, "Whoa, Pete, whoa, Lad." Trembling till she was almost unable to, unstrap the buckles, she let loose the hobbles, took the horses by the bridles, and started back, humility to God filling her soul. Coming up the trail the husband found her a few minutes later. When, after seeing from the ridge of the hill that his wife was gone and the horses, too, he had dashed down and following the prints of the horses' hoofs, had found their trail. Carrying her gently back to the wagon, he hurriedly hitched the horses and as fast as he dared, traveled home. The next day a tiny, tiny babe was born to them, and though weak and tired, the mother came through the ordeal safe and sound. At bed time she often tells her little boy tales of her pioneer days out by the lavas.

GIVE GOOD BOOKS TO THE CHILDREN FOR CHRISTMAS

The children's room of the Public Library of Salt Lake City, on State Street, will have an exhibit of books suitable for Christmas gifts for children, during Children's Book Week, (November 12 to November 18) and after. There will be on exhibition the beautifully illustrated editions of the classics; for instance, Rip Van Winkle, illustrated by Wyeth. There will also be a number of less expensive books, but all will have been selected under the supervision of the children's librarian and will be well worth buying and keeping. So much money is wasted every year during the Christmas season in buying worthless books for children that this exhibit should be looked upon, by parents, as an opportunity to receive help in selecting the best for their homes.

My Little Friend
May Booth Talmage

In the "pomp and circumstance" of present day living, when informal personal visits between members of the same family are chronicled in, minutest detail, and the announcement of one's motoring to a nearby city or state is of sufficient import to require an accompanying photograph, it is wonderfully refreshing to find people whose days are spent quietly and modestly dispensing to others the beauty and the fragrance of life with no thought of plaudit nor of fame.

A score of years ago there came into our home, as an assistant, a young girl convert direct from Germany. Refined in nature and cheerful in disposition, giving days of willing service with evenings spent in reading from Goethe and from Schiller, we soon found her to be rather a companion than a servant. As this brief sketch is to be in no sense a biography, we will bridge the intervening years with the simple statement that she left our home to marry a worthy young man who found in their imperfect understanding of each other's language no barrier to the attainment of his heart's desire. They moved to the coast and thus our association was severed.

During the past summer, while on a visit to this land of sunshine and flowers and hospitality, we found ourselves at the conclusion of Church service, in the midst of many old time friends. Warmth and gladness were in tone and hand shake, and all seemed desirous of adding by some means to the pleasure of our stay. When all others had moved away, a little woman, very modest in demeanor and dress, approached to inquire if she might possibly be remembered. Indeed she was! Our little helper of twenty years ago! Then came the faltering statement, "We have a little car—not very fine looking—but if you would not mind riding in it we should be so happy." Would we? The car proved to be an Essex, comfortable to the point of luxury within, though lacking paint without. After a most delightful afternoon viewing the famous Busch Gardens, the palaces in Pasadena, and the charming homes of smaller towns, we were wondering how, to express adequate appreciation when the husband said, "We are not at all satisfied. If you could only spare just one more day, we should be so very happy." We decided very promptly that we could, and so on this "other day" we were taken on a drive along the beautiful ocean front, through far-famed Hollywood to the magnificent homes 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE built by millionaires who have transformed the natural scenery into one of Oriental splendor. The miniature gardens and shrubs, bridges and canals, made us forget for the time being that we were on American soil. On we went through the charming and fertile San Fernando Valley, thence on to San Bernardino, and down to Riverside, with its world famed inn. After viewing the countless treasures herein housed, we started on the return trip. During the hours as we rode along we were permitted to learn from our little friend more of the wonderful over-ruling Power that had helped to shape her life. She told us of her home when a child beyond the sea, and the marvelous manner in which the family were assisted to emigrate in direct answer to prayer; of her interest in temple work and how she loved to use her money for this purpose rather than for fine clothing; there were glimpses of high ideals and lofty purposes revealed that many a more pretentious soul might envy. We found in answer to a query that her three little daughters were at the library for the afternoon, as they much preferred to go there than to picture shows. That was not surprising, for we would expect the children of these modest, earnest parents to have inherited some of their splendid simplicity of desires and tastes, and their love of books was in the line of their other pleasures and interests.

The countryside was beautiful and made more interesting because of the familiarity of our hosts with every nook and cranny. In reply to our expressions of pleasure in the information they imparted, we were told that it was in this wise that our friends were in the habit of seeking their pleasure. Once each year or so a longer trip was taken—to the Yosemite, Lake Tahoe, beautiful La Jolla, or Mt. Hamilton. They could give vivid descriptions of almost any place we mentioned, and always in speaking of a trip they added the remark that the elders, or visiting friends, had accompanied them. Gradually was developed the fact that they never went alone. Part of their enjoyment lay in the happiness of their friends.

Now, we were rolling through lovely Smiley Heights and on over a road which led windingly up a gradual ascent. It was a path of no particular beauty and we wondered vaguely as to our destination. The answer came at the end of the road. It was sunset on the very top of Mount Rubideaux, and a sight to thrill the soul! As far as the eye could reach lay beauty at our feet, and overhead blazed a miracle of glory. We stood in the midst of the shifting wonder of purple and gray, pink and gold clouds, while far in the distance beyond the sun's rays were floating billows of purest white. It was a moment of inspiration and exquisite joy, which will ever be one of our happiest memories. A glance at our quiet little friend, standing silently breath- MY LITTLE FRIEND. 585 in the glory of the scene, crystallized the feeling which had all day been developing. It was one of appreciative admiration for this obscure little person who spends her days helping her loved ones and friends up to a glimpse of the wondrous beauty that is to be found shining after the uphill road has been left behind— the glory of the sunset on the crest of the hill.

A TRIBUTE TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY

A cultured eastern lady, who has traveled over the world, by chance attended the general public meeting of the Relief Society Conference, and in speaking of it to one of our women, said, "I have traveled the world over, and attended conventions of women, among all the English speaking people, but to me, this great gathering of your Relief Society women, is the most wonderful sight in the world. Why, look at the women! There is character, true womanhood and purpose written upon every face. Any one can see that these people are real women, and are living a real life devoted to a noble purpose. Oh! How different from the fashionable conventions and society functions of the world, where women waste their energies and exhaust their strength in frivolity! You have peace here; it is written on every countenance—the peace that is the reward of a life devoted to a great cause!"

WORDS
Grace Ingles Frost

Words that might be sparkling gems
To make the world more glad,
Are oft but hard, unpolished stones,
That make the heart grow sad.
May I weld but gleaming words
With links of gold between,
And cast away all else besides,
That would my work bemean.
Then, mayhaps, some day I'll find
A radiant diadem,
With which to clasp my chain of words,
And crown each one of them.

The General Procession
James H, Anderson

Ireland still was under guerrilla war disturbances in October.

The new tariff law of the United States went into effect on September 21.

The American squadron at Constantinople was strengthened by twelve additional war vessels early in October.

The "Mormon" chapel at Ocean Park, Cal., was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant on September 21.

Three hundred Japanese fishermen were drowned in a storm off the coast of Japan, on September 28.

President Harding vetoed the soldier bonus bill in September, because the burden of taxation incurred by the same was too heavy for the people.

Senator Reed Smoot arrived in Utah on October 2, from a long and busy session of Congress, and was accorded an enthusiastic reception in Salt Lake City. He was accompanied by Mrs. Smoot.

In Italy, on September 28, the explosion of an arsenal through being struck by lightning killed 200 men and injured 500 others.

Russia united with Turkey in September, in assuming an attitude hostile to Great Britain, with promise of warlike activity in the not far distant future.

King Constantine of Greece was compelled to abdicate on September 27, owing to the defeat of the Greek army by the Turks, and his son King George was placed on the throne.

British labor unions, in September, demanded the resignation of the British Premier, David Lloyd George, thus encouraging the return aggression of the Turks toward Constantinople.

The Austrian government, owing to the threatening attitude of Turkey toward Great Britain, tendered to the latter a larger army than was engaged in the world war, to fight the Turks.

THE GENERAL PROCESSION 587

At Jackson, Cal., in September, a fire in the Argonaut mine entombed 47 men, who were taken out dead after 22 days in efforts to rescue them.

Elder Orson F. Whitney of the Council of the Twelve, who has been presiding over the Latter-day Saints European mission, was released in October, his successor being David O. McKay.

The Protestant Episcopal convention held at Portland, Oregon, in September, adopted faith-healing as part of its doctrine, and denounced secret organizations that resort to violence in strikes to enforce demands.

The United States government, by definite action on September 23, obtained court orders enjoining 400,000 strikers of the railway department of the American Federation of Labor from resorting to violence to gain their ends.

Former Senator George Sutherland of Utah, was appointed a member of the United States Supreme Court on September 5 and sworn in on October 2. This is the highest national compliment that has yet come to Utah.

United Mine Workers who were on strike in the United States were indicted by an Illinois grand jury in September, to the number of 214, for murder and kindred offenses during the riots at Herrin, Illinois, in June, last.

Turkish nationalist forces, having totally defeated the Greek armies in Asia Minor in September, and approached Constantinople, danger of another great war impended, to be postponed only by careful diplomacy, and then apparently for but a comparatively brief period.

Dr. Samuel Dickie, president emeritus of Albion college, Michigan, issued instruction to college students in September, to "do their smoking in a cowshed," and announced that smoking in public is as vulgar as going down a business street munching a meat pie.

Great Britain took a position in September against the Turkish power coming back into Europe after the Turks had defeated the Greeks; while France and Italy assumed an opposing attitude. There is marked significance in these two Catholic nations aligning themselves with the Mohammedans against Protestant Great Britain. Their alignment also is racial—against the Anglo-Saxon race.

588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING

Mrs. Charlotte Despard, sister of Field Marshal French of Great Britain, is a candidate for election to the British House of Commons.

Mrs. Adelina Otero-Warren has been nominated as the Republican party candidate for member of Congress from New Mexico.

Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, the Utah coloratura, began an engagement in grand opera with the Zuro Opera Company at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, New York, on September 11.

Mrs. Ebert, wife of the president of Germany, takes a specially active interest in the political questions of the day, particularly as these affect the younger people.

Princess Herminie, widow, of a distinguished German military officer, becomes the wife of former Kaiser Wilhelm, the wedding date having been fixed for November 5.

Miss Mary Catherine Campbell, of Columbus, Ohio, won the $5000 golden mermaid at the Atlantic City, N. J., contest, on September 8, for the most beautiful young woman in America.

Fashion designers in Paris have decreed that the "bustle" familiar to women's dress forty years ago, shall be in vogue again at an early date.

At Zurich, Switzerland, in September, the women who frequent the bathing resort there, were given the opportunity of voting on whether or not they would mix with the men bathers, and voted 10 to 1 to mix.

Mrs. Gerard Leigh, daughter of the late Wm. Goudy of Chicago, and wife of Captain Gerard Leigh of the British First Life Guards, is acclaimed the most beautiful American blonde in London society.

Twenty-five thousand Christian girls were carried captive by the Turks in September, at the capture of Smyrna from the Greeks, according to Alonzo T. Wilson, American national field director for the Near East Relief, who was in Salt Lake City, Utah, on September 28.

THE GENERAL PROCESSION 589

A Chicago newspaper took a vote in September, of 19,000 women, as to which they preferred, the bashful hero or the brave and fearless one. The vote was 8 to 1 in favor of the bashful young man.

Mme. Riviere de la Souchere, a French aristocratic ranchwoman, who has made a remarkable success of a rubber plantation and cattle-farm in Indo-China, has been decorated by the French government with the Cross of the Legion of Honor.

Miss Merlen Back, of Draper, Utah, won the gold loving cup, the second prize in a contest of 40,000 juvenile writers, given by the National Highway Education Board in September. The subject of her essay was "How to make Highways Safe."

Princess Christopher of Greece, who formerly was Mrs. Wm. B. Leeds, of New York, and later married the brother of King Constantine, when asked if her husband would take the throne of the deposed monarch, replied that under no circumstances was she a candidate for queen.

Mrs. I. C. Tatum of Dallas, Texas, was taken out in September by a mob of women, and given 100 lashes because she refused to have her daughter educated in a church organization there. The church people claimed she is unsuitable to rear the girl.

Mrs. Katherine Dickey, of Atlanta, Georgia, was the dancing partner of King Alfonso of Spain at a recent French society ball, when her father, whom she had not seen for several months, came into the room. Exclaiming, "Wait a minute," she ran to her father, leaving Alfonso alone, and he left the floor. When she returned she sent an apology for having followed American instead of European etiquette.

Miss Elsie Fuller, the first American movie star to take an active part in staging German films, is in Germany to help the work of combining the German and the American films. On account of her youth and above all her beauty, two, characteristics which German managers confess are scarce in German movie circles, Miss Fuller is attracting much attention in Berlin screen society.

Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman

Canadian Mission. The Relief Society of the Winnipeg branch, a picture of which appears herewith, has an alert and active group of women as members. This little organization with a membership of 25 has furnished a sacrament set and assisted the branch in improving the baptismal font. The women purchased linoleum, curtains, and a small organ, to furnish the Relief Society room. In conformity with the general plan, the second meeting of the month is a work and business session. In order that the women may have an opportunity for a social hour, they bring to this meeting a luncheon which they enjoy after the meeting. In the social chat, gossip is not permitted. The president frowns on anything that approaches personalities.

THE WINNIPEG RELIEF SOCIETY

The Hamilton conference has three Relief Society organizations. The Hamilton Relief Society was organized three years ago with a membership of 6, and there are now 20 enrolled members. The Relief Society of this branch is always loyal to the missionaries. They have furnished the lady missionaries with dishes for their housekeeping rooms. The Brantford and Preston Relief Societies, although small, have been active in the various phases of the work of the organization.

In Toronto, where there are two organizations, the work has been progressing satisfactorily. The Toronto Relief Society has the largest membership in the mission. A considerable amount of charity work has been done, and during the summer the Relief Society has held meetings in the homes of those who were unable to attend.

In Ottawa, the capital of the Dominion, there is now a nucleus for a Relief Society organization. Although not organized, the work has been carried on during the year under the direction of the missionaries. Weekly meetings have been held and the outlined lessons have been presented. Assistance has been rendered to some of the needy families in Ottawa, by the Relief Society, including the distribution of more than one hundred articles of clothing.

Malad Stake. The annual teachers' convention was held in the Malad First ward tabernacle on July 8, 1922. The visit of President Clarissa S. Williams was appreciated by all the members of the Relief Society. In her address she gave many valuable instructions and inspired the women to a greater love and interest in their work.

The Washakie ward of the Malad stake held their Relief Society conference early in August. With the exception of the bishop and his wife who is president of the Relief Society, the members of the ward are Lamanites. These Lamanite sisters are very energetic in their work and very considerate of one another in time of sickness. They are regular in their attendance at meetings, and they contribute willingly to the Relief Society cause. At their conference wonderful testimonies were borne, and several beautiful musical number were rendered, both in English and in their native tongue. The closing song, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," sung in English, by four Lamanite women, was particularly pleasing.

Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society organizations in the stake have held weekly meetings, with the exception of one ward which has met twice a month. Although the stake is one of the smallest, there is an earnest and progressive spirit ever present among the women, A conference of the Twin Falls stake Relief Society was held in July. One of the features of the program was a demonstration of the right and wrong way of teaching. Following the afternoon session, an outdoor luncheon was enjoyed by the members present.

In the remote scattered district of Roseworth, in Twin Falls stake, where the only center is two school rooms and a small store, the women have been recently organized for Relief Society work. This territory is of local historical interest, for it is the place where of group of Brooklyn city-bred people located, but the settlement dwindled away because the city folk became discouraged with the pioneer farm life. In order to reach Roseworth, a dugway more than two miles long, with a high towering rock on one side, and a precipice on the other, must be crossed.

South African Mission. Four Relief Societies have been organized recently in the South African mission. These are the first Relief Society organizations to be effected in this mission. Mrs. Magdalen Sessions, in a letter to the Relief Society office, reports that she has just returned from a visit to the "up country" branches of this mission. She accompanied her husband, J. Wyley Sessions, who is president of this mission, on this trip. In her letter she states:

"Since the first of January, 1922, we have been enjoying a thriving organization at Cape Town, which seems to be succeeding in every way. The enrollment and attendance are gradually increasing. Regular meetings are being held and we are following as nearly as possible the outlined lessons. A system of Relief Society ward teaching is being carried out which is accomplishing much good by eliminating a great deal of misunderstanding and backwardness that existed among new members of the Church. We are studying the regular theological lessons, as published in the Magazine, once a month, and meeting in sewing meeting once a month. We also rendered some assistance to many families in distress. We had to devise some way of earning money, since gifts by contribution would be asking too much of most of our members who themselves are having to struggle hard for a respectable living during these difficult times. I must tell you of our little scheme for raising money, for it is such a success. We hold a cooked food sale the first Thursday evening of each month after the Bible class. The members of the Society bring the cooked foods which are supposed to be practical and substantial, such as bread, relishes, meats, etc. The food is sold in quantities large enough to supply a family. Those who bring food inclose a slip of paper giving the entire cost of ingredients, and the food is sold at a higher figure so as to make a profit. The price is never more than the shop price. The cost of materials is returned to the maker; the Relief Society takes only the profit. We cannot supply the demand and the entire stock is disposed of in less than half an hour. The chief reason for the great success of the project is that most people here buy all breads, cakes, jams, pickles, etc., ready prepared. Very little cooking is done in the home.

"While on the trip we organized a Relief Society at Johannesburg, Kimberley and Bloemfontein. The women seemed very anxious to meet regularly once a month and study definite work.

"The Johannesburg branch meets twice a month and they alternate the lesson work with a sewing class. The meetings are held at the homes of members.

"At Kimberley we met an interesting situation. The women expressed a desire to learn more about genealogy. It was a surprise to me for it had not occurred to me to suggest the subject. Some of the women have already done considerable work and we have a brother in the mission who will be assigned to this work who will assist us. This brother is devoting all his spare time to genealogical research, and has rendered valuable service to people in Zion, and I know he will cooperate with us.

"The Bloemfontein branch is composed mostly of Dutch speaking sisters, but they are delighted to know that they can belong to the Latter-day Saint women's organization. They will read such Church works and articles as can be provided in their language. Bloemfontein is almost entirely a Dutch speaking city.

"I am inclosing a list of our officers: Johannesburg branch, Cecelia H. Brummer, president; Lizzie P. Muir, counselor and teacher; Cecelia Lowe, secretary and treasurer. Kimberley branch, Louisa VanWinkle, president; T. Clark, counselor; Aletta Campbell, secretary Bloemfontein branch, Magdalen Deady, president; Hester M. P. Grobbelaar, counselor and secretary. Cape Town branch, Florence Jenkin, president, Mary Stanley and Ruth Walsh, counselors; Beatrice Julian, secretary; Lillian Perrine, assistant secretary and treasurer."

Tooele Stake. During the early summer months ward Relief Society conferences were held in the various wards. Interesting reports were submitted of the activities. One small ward had furnished rags and made more than eighty yards of carpet for their meetinghouse. Two wards had assisted materially in preparing lunches for school children during the winter months. Another ward reported that the time of

Vol. IX NOVEMBER, 1922 No. 11

SPIRITUAL STATUS OF OUR PRESENT-DAY WORLD

Matthew Arnold in his Stanzas from the Grand Chartreuse, speaks of himself as "wandering between two worlds, one dead, the other powerless to be born." These lines rather aptly describe the spiritual condition that one meets up with not infrequently in the world today. This is not a time of many ideals; life has a tendency to run on a dead level, except for the freakish and abnormal, which appears to be considerably in the limelight. Some people feel that this upset condition of the world is the herald of a better day, the dark hour before the dawn, and yet others think it is as typical of a reconstruction period. The war seems to have robbed the world of much of its joy. The glory of the past fails to make appeal, and the fear of the future breeds restlessness and dissatisfaction. At the moment, such a world as meets the craving of the human soul seems powerless to be born. Many charge that the crass materialism of the age has already greatly interfered with the spiritual and intellectual progress of the world, and is at present threatening civilization. Professor Lovett, of the University of Chicago, in a recent essay on education, writes: "It is recognized today that progress in natural science has far outrun that in politics, social life, culture; therein lies the tragedy of the world. A few men of science have a knowledge of the means by which the human race can be destroyed in a brief space—and no statesmen, philosophers, or apostles of culture have the power to persuade the race not to permit it to be done." In an article by Herman Hesse, of recent date, appearing in the English Review, is the following statement: "Europe wants rest—Europe wants to be recreated, reborn." Everywhere we hear the call for a leadership that can give to society a social and spiritual rebirth. These quotations will give the reader an idea of some of the things men and women are thinking at this present day. Are we face to face with a condition where there is more fear in the world than hope? If so, are we not witnessing a fulfilment of the prophecy, "Men's hearts shall fail them for fear?" Against this background of gloom the Latter-day Saint must have comfort and reassurance in two thoughts: First, that God's ways and man's ways are at variance. On the very eve of the great conflagration, many of the worldly wise were insisting that war on a large scale could not again occur; now there are people who would have us believe that the human race is deteriorating so rapidly that decay and destruction are the only alternatives. We do not believe such things; we know that Zion shall be built on this continent, the earth be renewed, and made a fit abode for Christ. To be sure, individuals and groups of people, who live for the material interest of life apart from the spiritual, will in time be overcome. The scripture is full of warning and of condemnation of such living. The classic instance is that of Christ. When Satan appeared at the conclusion of the Master's long fast, the evil one tempted him by saying, "If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread," to which suggestion Christ replied, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." A second fear, frequently voiced, is that the world has moved on at such rapid paces that religion is outworn and unable to cope with every-day problems. Such a belief may find lodgment in the minds of some religionists, and there may be grounds for such concern; but surely no such thought can enter the mind of a Latter-day Saint, for the gospel came as a setting to our present-day civilization, nearly all of the great inventions and discoveries having come into being since its restoration. Again, the very philosophy upon which the Church is based, that of continuous revelation, provides for growth and changing scenes. There is no danger of the gospel's becoming antiquated, because the gospel is the synonym of truth, and "Truth," said the old philosopher, "is ever new." No one ever tires of the sun, no one ever thinks it is going out, no one doubts its power to flood the earth with light. So it is with truth; truth that may be added upon by continual revelation; it is equal to every and any demand that may be made upon it. In the light of such belief and knowledge, surely the course of the Latter-day Saint is clear: to live so near to God that we may be sure of his constant guidance individually, and to support and uphold his authority placed on earth to reveal his mind and will unto the children of men. The Allied forces banded together to prevent the enemy from destroying the civilization of the world; Latter-day Saints can do no less than to stand together to prevent those who are full of doubt and unbelief from making inroads on the spiritual life. "They shall not pass," should be the watchword. The general Federation of Women's Clubs has taken up the problem of the Indian, and will not lay down on the task. The aim of the federation is to work out a simple basic policy, aimed primarily at the improvement of the Indians' economic condition. It hopes to cooperate with the government in a sustained effort toward keeping for the Indians the land which they still possess, and getting back for them some of the land of which they have been illegally dispossessed, and toward fostering the Indian arts and crafts.

SELECTION

J. G. Whittier

Heap high the farmer's wintry hoard!
Heap high the golden corn!
No richer gift has Autumn poured
From out her lavish horn.

Let other lands exulting glean
The apple from the pine,
The orange from its glossy green,
The cluster from the vine.

* * *

But let the good old corn adorn
The hills our fathers trod;
Still let us, for His golden corn,
Send up our thanks to God.

Guide Lessons for December

LESSON I

Theology and Testimony (First Week in January)

MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS (Continued)

Some Ordinance Miracles: I—Restoration of the Lesser Priesthood. In this lesson we shall consider some ordinance miracles which form a vital part of the restoration of the gospel in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. The extended miracle of translating the Book of Mormon gave to the inhabitants of the earth the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as revealed to the ancient inhabitants of America, but it did not include the bringing back of the authority for man to officiate as an agent of the Lord and thus become a sharer in divine responsibility. The first ordinance miracle of record in the history of the Church was the recommissioning of man to act for Deity. This event is known as the restoration of the Lesser Priesthood. This miracle was preceded by an event in heaven. From among the resurrected beings, John the Baptist was selected to perform the mission of coming to earth to give to man divine authority, and to promise the coming of other messengers with the keys of a higher Priesthood. This ordinance miracle was performed on the 15th of May, 1829. When the messenger from on high arrived he found John and Oliver engaged in prayer. He introduced himself, performed the ordinance, supplemented it with instructions and promises, and departed. On that same day the first two authoritative baptisms on the earth for centuries were performed. The Priesthood of Aaron, which was left among the Israelites after the death of Moses, and during the apostasy lost to earth, was restored with the keys or authority to confer it on others. Of this event Oliver Cowdery writes: "On a sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the gospel of repentance. What joy! What wonder! What amazement! While the world was wicked and distracted, while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty as a general mass, our eyes beheld—our ears heard. As in the blaze of day; yes, more—above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature. Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words: 'I am thy fellow-servant,' dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired! 'Twas the voice of an angel from glory, 'twas a message from the Most High, and as we heard we rejoiced, while his love enkindled upon our souls, and we were wrapt in the vision of The Almighty! Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty had fled, doubt had sunk, no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever." History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 42, 43.

II—The Restoration of the Higher Priesthood. Another ordinance miracle, of brief record, was the restoration of the Higher Priesthood which was promised in the first ordinance miracle. Although the date and place are not definitely given, the fact of the miracle being performed is unmistakably set forth in Doc. And Cov. Section 27:12;128:20, and that it was performed on the Susquehanna River. Section 128:20 contains the testimony of the Prophet concerning this miraculous event. As to the time of this miracle, there seems to be evidence that it was performed before the organization of the Church. The account of the organization of the Church reads: "We still continued to bear testimony and give information, as far as we had opportunity; and also made known to our brethren that we had received a commandment to organize the Church; and accordingly we met together for that purpose, at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sen., (being six in number) on Tuesday, the sixth day of April, A. D., one thousand eight hundred and thirty, Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer to our heavenly Father, we proceeded according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; after which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of the Church. We then took bread, blessed it, and broke it with them; also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ."—History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 75, 76, 78. Here at the organization of the Church elders were ordained. Persons who had been baptized by water received the ordinance for a spiritual baptism, and were confirmed members of the Church, all of which was beyond the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood.

III—An Ordinance Miracle of Hymnal Reference. For a consideration of this topic, the student is referred to the lines in the first stanza of "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," reading: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer." with the suggestion that special consideration be given to the word "anointed." When it is remembered that W. W. Phelps, the author of this hymn, was a man of prominence in the Church and closely associated with the Prophet Joseph, we can hardly think that he would have used the word anointed as he did without historical justification. The chain of events solemnly, and yet simply, referred to by the Prophet Joseph as recorded in Sec. 128:20, were all miraculous, as also was the acceptance of the Kirtland temple by the Savior, the conferring of the keys of the gathering by Moses, the renewal of the Abrahamic promise by Elias, the keys for turning the hearts of the children to the fathers and the fathers to the children by Elijah. One significant fact is prominent in the life of the Prophet Joseph in his relation to miraculous events. He was wonderfully humble. Among the first revelations that he received, was one promising the coming of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and, the hearts of the children to the fathers. How he must have longed for the fulfilment of this promise; and yet with these longings he patiently waited the time of the Lord. He never attempted to enter any sacred doors without first having the keys; he never attempted to open this dispensation faster than he was authorized. His humility was absolute assurance against humiliation.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. What three lines of action were authorized through the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 13.

2. Who was the mother of John the Baptist? What were the circumstances of his birth? What wonderful mission did he perform on the earth in mortality?

3. What evidence have we that he was a resurrected being when he performed this Latter-day ordinance miracle?

4. In what official relation did he stand to Peter, James, and John?

5. How did Joseph and Oliver know that John the Baptist was not an imposter?

6. How may a clear knowledge concerning the miracle of the restoration of the Priesthood be used by parents to awaken in their sons an interest in and a desire for the Priesthood?

7. How may a knowledge of the miraculous events of the Kirtland temple dedication be used to encourage temple marriages?

8. What evidence have we that the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored before the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830?

LESSON II

Work and Business. (Second Week in January)

LESSON III

Literature. (Third week in January)

The literary work for the coming year will consist of a study of American literature. Three distinct periods loom before us, as we think of our American life on this continent. First, the Colonial period (1607-1765) with the hardships incident to pioneer life—a life that would be readily understood by our pioneer fathers and mothers. Following this period is the Revolutionary period (1765-1789) a period of conflict when intense hatred of tyranny and love of freedom found voice in Patrick Henry's classic phrase, "Give me liberty, or give me death." The third period is the period of the Republic, (1789-1922), the period that has given to us our best American poetry, essays, novels, short stories, dramas, letters, and criticism.

Colonial Period: During the Colonial period the people were so completely occupied subduing the country, turning a rockbound coast into a habitable place, preserving their lives and property from the Indians, that they had no time to devote to any of the arts. There is yet another reason why no literature, in the sense of literature as a fine art, was known at this time. Religion was the all engrossing topic, along the New England coast, so that persons possessing literary talents either went into the pulpit, thereby entering into the ministry, or they devoted themselves to the writing of ecclesiastical history. The same condition existed in America as existed in Italy, from the tenth to the fifteenth century. Painters, during this period, used their talents to decorate the cathedrals and churches of the middle ages, and their subjects were taken from the Bible or the lives of the Saints. The New England minister was regarded as the leading citizen in the community. Katherine Lee Bates says of the minister of the Colonial period, that "he was a little short of an autocrat, the New England parson of the Heroic age, in his black Geneva cloak and close fitting, black velvet cap. The tongue that decried him was in danger of a cleft stick. Criticisms of his sermons were answered with public stripes." Of their place of meeting Katherine Lee Bates has this to say, "The meetinghouse was the strong power of Colonial truth. Built on a hill top, it had served at the outset, for fort as well as church. Ammunition was stored in its loft. On its flat roof cannon were posted and sentinels kept watch. The drum beat assembled an armed congregation."

"For once, for fear of Indian beating,
Our grandsires bore their guns to meeting.
Each man equipped on Sunday morn
With psalm-book, shot and powder horn,
And looked in form, as all must grant
Like the ancient true church militant."

It has been estimated that of the five hundred and fifty publications, known to have been produced in America from 1706 to 1718, all but eighty-four were on religious topics, forty-nine of the eighty-four being almanacs. Another way in which the life of the colonials bore very close resemblance to the life of the pioneers is evidenced by the fact that they had constantly to protect themselves from the Indians. Indians, to be sure, find their way from time to time in all of the early American literature. The people who settled Virginia were different from those who settled in Massachusetts. Those who landed in Virginia were in the main fortune hunters, lured by tales of gold and jewels, "Even the dripping pans are made of pure gold," said one of the popular English plays of the time. The first permanent colony, of 1607, has been described as a company of one hundred "fortune seeking gallants, soldiers, servants, with a few downright rogues and the merest sprinkling of mechanics." The prominent name among the Virginia colonists is that of Captain John Smith, who has given us the most dramatic of all Indian tales which, whether true or false, has immortalized Chief Powhatan and the lovely Princess Pocahontas. The love story of Colonial time most admired and most beloved is that of John Alden and Priscilla Mullins. It is a great debt we owe to Henry W. Longfellow that he has preserved this tale in all its quaintness in the atmosphere of an age that has passed. These early settlers of the New World were homesick. At one time the writer went through Kent and Devonshire with a young woman born and reared in Boston. Daily we passed through English towns, whose names were familiar to the native of New England, Boston being one of them. "I never sensed before how homesick my ancestors really were," she remarked, on one occasion. These people imported their literature from England, just as they imported their dress goods and other household commodities of life, and doubtless preferred the imported article. All about them was a new world, with new physical features, with an expanse and vastness that was in sharp contrast to their island home, with different song birds and different flowers, but they heeded them not. Deep in their hearts was the memory of the English landscapes, and of English birds; a memory kept alive by the literature they read; a memory that they refused to relinquish for many decades after they landed in America. All through the Colonial period religion was, to employ a political phrase, the paramount issue. In time, the meetinghouse ceased to be a fort and an arsenal, but it continued to be a place of the strictest discipline. "It remained a bleak and austere place of long prayers and longer sermons, and of most discordant singing. With little aid of printed notes and noise of instruments. There were no stoves. Sometimes it chanced that midwinter babies were sprinkled with baptismal water from which the ice in the christening bowl had to be broken, the parent allowing themselves a twinge of pride if the tiny Puritan endured the ordeal without a cry! Sometimes the communion bread was frozen pretty hard and rattled sadly in the plates! The congregation embracing the whole community was seated by scale of social consequence; magistracy, wealth, learning, military service, age, were factors in dignity. Men and women were seated apart, spinsters, ungallantly known in Boston as thornbacks, by themselves, negroes by themselves, boys by themselves." Forbidding and socially unjust as many of the Puritan customs were, yet they were not wholly bad. In their churches people learned God and their Redeemer and knew much concerning his divine commandments. Today, people too often do any other thing than go to a house of worship on the Sabbath. They know little of his divine purpose in relation to his children. The Puritan forced from life many things that make for happiness, but at least he held in his heart the knowledge of the life after death, and believed that eventually justice and peace and law and order would be the common heritage of man. Today there are thousands of people in the world, who know little of God, little of the Bible, and who doubt very much if there is a God, or if there is a divine purpose in the things that are and are to be. These people are without hope, and truly as the Scripture saith, they are of all people most miserable.

REFERENCES

The Colonial Period: A Standard History of the United States. Any good history of American literature.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. Into what three periods has the history of American literature been divided?

2. Which period is foremost in its literary output? What variety is there in this output?

3. In your opinion, would a survey of Latter-day Saint literature likely disclose the same fact that the survey of American literature discloses, that the majority of the Latter-day Saint writers have written on religious topics?

4. Have some one relate the story of the Courtship of Miles Standish placing emphasis on any word or phrase that helps to portray the Puritan life.

5. Have some one relate an incident of Indian life that you would like to see cast into story or poem. If possible, have some one sing a solo from the opera Priscilla. If you can, easily, have some children dressed in Colonial costumes; it will add to the effect.

LESSON IV

Social Service (Fourth week in January)

LATER ADOLESCENCE. (CONTINUED)

Extending Acquaintanceship

In our previous lesson we considered the place and importance of courtship as a condition to happy married life. We also observed the customs of courtship and the attitude of the mind which exists in our communities in relation to it. In this and the following lesson, we shall treat the subject of acquaintanceship and friendship as conditions essential to successful courtship.

Courtship and the Obligation of Parenthood

In our generation and in this country particularly, marriage is based on love. We pride ourselves upon the fact that we select our own life companions and that our parents do not select them for us. We place great importance upon the right which every man and every woman has to select his or her own companion and that the selection is based upon love rather than wealth or class distinction. This is a real attainment, and we do not, under any consideration, desire to revert to the old regime. We believe that our system is more natural and results in greater happiness. But what we desire is to make sure that in the new liberty that has come to us, blind impulses shall not take the place of reason, and that fads will not lead us to sacrifice common sense. We need to be constantly on the alert, as parents, to protect our youth against their own blind impulses, the ever changing fads and temporary notions which may defeat the real purpose of our very democratic system of association and selection. Certainly, the yielding up of the absolute parental control in the matter of marriage did not contemplate yielding up its influence entirely. There is no problem in life where the young man and young woman needs the intelligent assistance of father and mother quite so much as in the selection of a life's companion. Experience, intelligence, parental love, protection and direction, will always have a place in solving the great problems of courtship.

The Significance of Association

A young man or a young woman cannot select a suitable life's companion unless he or she is given an opportunity to mingle freely with desirable young people of the opposite sex. Selection has no meaning for a young man unless he has a number of young women friends from whom to select his mate. Through such association he is not only more likely to select a suitable companion but he develops an ideal of what a woman should be. No young man has this idea already created; it grows slowly when mingling with young people and while making comparisons of womanly virtues as they are expressed by the lives and conduct of his lady friends.

Friendship and Courtship

The significant place of friendship in the problem of courtship is hard to over-estimate. In fact, the success of courtship depends almost entirely upon the period of friendship which precedes it. If a careful observation were made, we should discover that most successful marriages have been those which were preceded by a reasonable period of friendship. Love at first sight is not so common as it is sometimes supposed. The task before parents is not so much to dictate courtship as it is to direct in the field of friendship. If they can help their young people to find suitable friends, the question of finding lovers and sweethearts is less difficult. It is unwise and indeed unfair for parents to remain indifferent in matters of friendship and extremely rigid in matters of courtship. When real affection has developed between a young man and woman it is the more difficult to give proper advice. It is during the period of mere friendship when parents should give the necessary advice and counsel. It is easy and proper for parents to advise against improper attachments being formed, but it is difficult and sometimes unwise to attempt to sever relations when once deep affections are formed.

The Problem of Isolation

As parents, we feel inclined not to do anything that may be interpreted as "matchmaking." Thus, too often we leave the whole problem of selection to the mere control of chance. Our daughter becomes acquainted and forms friendships with any one who perchance comes in her way. She may be thrown into the company of an immoral man. She may be deprived of any sort of congenial companionship because of isolation, as, for example, being reared on a ranch away from a community. She may live in a small rural community where there are very few young men to whom she is attracted and the interests and standards of these few are very different from her own. In such a case, something might properly be done to place her in a community where she can find companions and enlarge her association. She may be sent away to high school or college, or she may be permitted to find suitable employment in a neighboring community, always taking into consideration, of course, means of safeguarding her while she is away from home. Parents must be willing to make some sacrifice in order to give their sons and daughters extensive association of a wholesome character.

The Home Party

One of the most wholesome means of enjoyment and the best means of selecting desirable companionship for young people is the home party. This party being generally under the direction, or at least conducted in cooperation with, the parents, maintains a dignity, refinement, and feeling of courtesy which is of great moral value. Unfortunately, public parties cannot maintain this control and consequently cannot develop the spirit of sociability to a high degree. In a home party the crowd is not so large but that every member might become acquainted with every other member of the group. This is also an invitation party which is, of course, a practical guarantee against the intrusion of men and women who are not desirable associates for one's sons and daughters. Our home should be planned in such a way as to be able to meet these social demands. It is well that we think of the home not from the standpoint of a mere shelter or a place of refuge, a place in which we eat and sleep—it is more than that; it is where we live and should therefore meet every demand of life. The young people need the home as a social center and so do the parents. Whatever can be done to promote social life within the home itself is a direct protection against social evils and, more, it is a means of promoting wholesome association and is an essential condition to proper courtship.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. What responsibilities do parents have in relation to the courtship of the son or daughter?

2. What importance do you attach to our democratic methods of courtship?

3. What are some of the dangers of our very liberal system of permitting every one to make his own choice of a companion?

4. What is the significance of wide association for young people prior to marriage?

5. How does the ideal woman develop in the mind of a young man?

6. Why is friendship so important in connection with courtship?

7. What is the disadvantage of isolation from the standpoint of courtship and how can such difficulties be met?

8. Give the advantages of home parties as a means of providing proper association.

TEACHERS' TOPIC (January, 1923)

SHARING JOYS AND SORROWS

"So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another." Romans 12:5.

The misfortune of one is, in a measure, the misfortune of all. The same should be true of the good fortune of any one. Thus St. Paul admonished the Saints, "Rejoice with them that rejoice, weep with them that weep."—Romans 12:15. Ask the Saints to read and ponder all of this wonderful chapter of Paul's Epistle to the Romans.

Salt Lake City's Milk Supply

Fred W. Merrill

No city can boast of a better milk supply. From the viewpoint of cleanliness it is unsurpassed and this is not to be questioned when one learns of the organized effort of both city and county and state departments to safeguard the milk we eat. The milk supply might be likened to the water supply. They are both essential. They are both safeguarded and every effort is made to keep them pure and wholesome. The one comes from the purest sources in the world—our melting snows and mountain springs. The second comes from healthy cows, fed on mountain feed, and watered from mountain springs. The wholesomeness of dairy products produced in Utah cannot be surpassed. Switzerland has been for a hundred years the leading dairy country in the world. It has held this distinction because of the high quality of its products. Utah in many respects is like Switzerland. Our altitude, our mountain water, our pasture grasses are similar. Our cows, our winter feed and our modern sanitary methods are much better. We have an opportunity to surpass even Switzerland in quality of product and establish a reputation for nature's most wholesome food. The mothers of children must be assured of a pure milk supply. The milk must be clean, and this is guaranteed, in Salt Lake City, by a system of inspection maintained and enforced by the city's board of health. Some cities boast of a milk supply that is clean because the dirt has been removed. Salt Lake City can boast of a milk supply from which dirt does not have to be removed. The milk must be safe. The one disease of which we have most fear in milk is tuberculosis. Utah's dairy cows have less tuberculosis than those of any other state in the union—less than .6 of 1% of the dairy cows in this state are infected and they are being eliminated. We have nothing to fear from our milk supply, and mothers can be assured that the milk the children drink both at home and at school is clean, pure, and wholesome.

PURE MILK

Harris Dairy is the only large dairy which brings its milk direct from the farms to the dairy by truck.

725 So. State Street

HARRIS DAIRY

Was. 1684

To Our Magazine Subscribers

We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.

Magazine Management.

WOMEN OF THE BIBLE

Only 170 copies remain of WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. They are being bought for libraries and holiday presents. $1.00 a copy. $.80 for orders of ten or more.

WILLARD DONE

504 Templeton Building

Salt Lake City, Utah

Cleanliness is the first requisite to health. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business.

DICKINSON'S

The right weigh.

CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES

No overcharge. No short-weight. No cold-storage goods. No discourtesy. No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers. Let us be helpful in planning your meals. Squabs furnished on short notice.

Hyland 60. Free Delivery

680 East 2nd South.

PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Following are the ones we have on hand:

12 vols. Of 1915, cloth bound $1.75

1 vol. Of 1918, leather bound.. 2.00

2 vols. Of 1919, cloth bound 2.75

1 vol. Of 1919, leather bound 3.00

6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound 2.75

10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound 3.00

5c Extra for postage

All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.

TO AGENTS

Please commence at once to take subscriptions for 1923. This will insure subscribers a copy of the January Number.

MILK

The Vital Food

The Most Healthful Nation is One Whose Children Have Plenty of Milk

THE EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD NOW IS: SHOULD BE:

Meat and fish 35% Milk and its products 20% Bread and cereals 15% Fruits and vegetables 13% Miscellaneous 6%

Meat and fish 14% Milk and its products 44% Bread and cereals 13% Fruits and vegetables 11% Miscellaneous 5%

NO FAMILY OF FIVE SHOULD BUY MEAT UNTIL THEY HAVE BOUGHT THREE QUARTS OF MILK

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY WILL FURNISH THE MILK

159 W. 1st So.

Every Afternoon

Your Own

When you let electricity do your cooking.

Modern Electric Ranges, $10 down—balance on easy monthly payments

Utah Power & Light Company

"Efficient Public Service"

Everything Electrical for the Home

Tel. Wasatch 2177

So Convenient!

—just call Wasatch 3223 —we'll deliver that delicious Keeley's Ice Cream, Cake, Candy or Punches and charge to your account.

A Page for Every Woman

Containing latest patterns—fascinating health and beauty suggestions—recipes for cooking special dishes—and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness—wholesomeness and dependability characterizes

The Deseret News

Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Columbus, Westward ho!

A NEW BOOK

By Alice Merrill Horne, author of beautiful book: FOR HOME an historic drama, written and designed in the GIFT. Atmosphere of romance and the spirit of adventure LIBRARY which characterized the Columbian period. SCHOOL with Address 333 Ouray Ave., Salt Lake City An artistic and charming home production.

$1.75

Ten three-colored illustrations by Florence Ware, Deseret News Press.

Was. 912

Was. 912

A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service

S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY

successors to Joseph E. Taylor

Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860.

PHONE WASATCH 912.

An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service.

Was. 912

251-257 East First South Street.

Was. 912

Mention Relief Society Magazine

S. M. TAYLOR, President

A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.

FOOD PRODUCTS

For the dainty spread—or a regular meal—you need only a few minutes in which to prepare PIERCE'S PORK AND BEANS. A savory satisfying meat that will both surprise and delight with its delicious goodness. PIERCE'S is the dependable ally of the resourceful housewife.

TRY PIERCE'S TOMATO CATSUP.

FOR LITTLE TOTS ON CHILLY MORNINGS

Warm, comfortable homes mean healthy, happy children. No winter colds from morning exposure in homes equipped with a GAS ROOM HEATER

UTAH GAS & COKE CO.

351 So. Main St.

Was. 705

We know from experience that Blue Pine QUALITY is always the highest QUALITY. Blue Pine Olive Oil is the finest French Virgin Oil possible to obtain. It is rich in butter fat—the purest oil there is, which is the prerequisite for all church ordinances, food and medicine. Insist on Blue Pine Olive Oil—you'll like it.

Other Blue Pine PRODUCTS

EXTRACTS * SPICES SALAD OIL