104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached.....-....---..-.:-+---0+--$1.40 150 Extra white Meres.......... 124 Heavy weight, bleached............$2.50 3.00 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS MAY, 1922 

Page

A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Prairie Frontispiece
Contentment Riveina Lundgren 235
A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Platte River 237
May—Mother's Month 242
Mothering Elsie C. Carroll 242
Mother Velora Darger 243
O Mother Mine Matilda K. Galloway 244
Being a Mother Genie Mark 244
When Dreams Come True Linda S. Fletcher 245
Life and Death Margaret Erickson 246
The Form of a Little Child Hannah Deady Tomsick 247
If You Should Know Ruth M. Penrose 247
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 248
Unforgotten 254
Old Fashioned Thrift Coral J. Black 255
Tell it now Bertha A. Kleinman 260
The Awakening of Margaret Vorrest Ivy Williams Stone 261
Freedom and the Changing Standards May Roberts Rinehart 270
The General Procession James H. Anderson 284
Editorial: Just Mothering 285
Note Nephi Anderson 286

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
FLOWER SHOP, Eccles Bldg., Ogden, Utah
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
McCONAHAY, Jeweler, 64 So. Main St., Phone W. 1821
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Ogden, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
SERVICE PRESS PRINTERS, 228 W. Broadway, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY, 251-57 East 1st South
UTAH CANNING COMPANY, Ogden, Utah
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 

CONTENTMENT Riveina Lundgren I used to fret because my hours were slow instead of fleet? I wished they all had rainbow wings, and silver-slippered feet. And still, the hours that were sent, I knew I needs must greet. So I went out to meet them, and waited at the stile; For they had come to find me, O many a tired mile. And each one as it saw me, gave a wistful little smile. Each brought a little gift for me And tendered it most graciously? And I so loved their company, That, when the shadows reached my door. And lengthened out across my floor, I left my labors to implore: ' "Oh little sorrows, please to stay, You who have tarried here all day, Sweet, thoughtful spirits stoled in gray; Where you are, is a tender gloom, A soothing counsel at the loom; Pray you, stay on within my room. "Oh little joys, pray you, remain. And I, removing dust and stain, Into a fragrant, shining chain, Will thread you, oh, so faithfully, For such as are one faith with me, And wear you like a rosary." A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Prairie Inscription on the Monument: REBECCA BURDICK WINTERS: BORN, 1802; DIED, 1852. MONUMENT ERECTED, 1902. IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF REBECCA BURDICK WINTERS. SHE GAVE HER LIFE FOR HER FAITH IN THAT MEMORABLE PIONEER JOURNEY ACROSS THE PLAINS. ERECTED BY HER NUMEROUS DESCENDANTS IN UTAH. On the back of the monument is chiseled: COME, COME, YE SAINTS. And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; With the just we shall dwell. But if our lives are spared again To see the Saints their rest obtain; O how we'll make this chorus swell? All is well! All is well! ! THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX MAY, 1922 No. 5 A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Platte River The long, winter trail between Winter Quarters and Salt Lake City was marked more than once with the graves of wornout mothers, sick children, and ague-smitten fathers. One of the most interesting graves thus left is that of Mrs. Rebecca Burdick Winters, who died under the most piteous circumstances. Her grave was left there for many years beside the sluggish waters of the Platte river. When the Burlington Route was surveying for their road through Iowa, in 1902, they discovered this grave, and their line should have gone directly through it, but the superintendent of the surveying party could not thus desecrate the last resting place of a Pioneer Mother, so he ordered his men to turn back, and he made a detour of several miles in the survey in order to leave the grave in its lonely isolation. The railroad put up a neat fence around the grave and sent a message to the office _in Salt Lake City to discover through the press if there were any relatives of Rebecca Winters, stating that if such relatives could be found and chose to erect a monument, the railroad officials would attend to its erection and see that everything was properly done. They named the place "Winters" and since that day tourist trains stop there as one of the points of interest. During the visit of these same officials later, in Salt Lake City, they inquired at the Bureau of Information for the relatives of this "prairie mother" and were taken to the home of President Heber J. Grant, who was an apostle at this time, as his wife, Mrs, Augusta Grant, is a granddaughter of Mrs. -Winters. The Saints have heard President Grant refer to this incident in connection with his vivid sermons on our Latter-day Saint hymns. He refers in his remarks always to the last verse of the hymn, "Come, come, ye Sains," desiring that the singers should 238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not leave the verse off, which is carved in stone on the monument. The "tire" referred to, is noticeable in the picture. The following account was written by Mrs. Mary Ann Winters, daughter-in-law of the Prairie Mother, some twenty years ago: "TI saw an account in the Deseret News of Thursday, Oct. 17, of the finding of the grave of Rebecca Winters, on the Platte river, near the old emigrant trail. The folllowing items may be of interest:. "Sister Rebecca Winters was indeed a pioneer in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and was baptized in connection with her husband and her father's family, in June, 1823, in Jamestown, N. Y., at the outlet of Lake Chautauqua, near Buffalo, where her husband was operating a saw mill—she boarding the hands—among them Alden Burdick her brother, William Pratt, Zebedee Coltrin, and others, whose names I do not call to mind, eight in number, who all received the gospel. The following November started on the journey to Kirtland, where Brother Winters enlisted in Zion's camp, and after his return was engaged in working in the temple, Sister Winters also boarding others that were working there. On churning days she would send buttermilk for them to drink, for that temple, like the one in Nauvoo, was built on short rations. But our heavenly Father accepted of their humble offerings and faithful labors, and poured out his spirit in rich abundance when the building was completed. "Their next journey was with the Saints to Illinois, where they remained, sharing in the persecutions of those days. "Sister Winters was the daughter of Gideon Burdick, who joined the Revolutionary army at the age of 18 years as a drummer boy, and continued to the close of the war; he was with Washington when he crossed the Delaware, and related the circumstances to his grandchildren. He died near Nauvoo, on April 5, 1844, at the age of 98 years, firm in the faith of the gospel, and requesting his children to be sure and do the work for him in the temple that he could not live to do himself. Her mother, Katherie Robertson Burdick, died in early womanhood, leaving five little children. Her death occurred at the birth of her youngest son, Alden, who, in after years, was the first man ordained a seventy in this dispensation, and Sister Rebecca's husband, Hiram Winters, being the second to receive these blessings, under the hands of the Prophet Joseph, her oldest brother, Thomas Burdick, being the scribe. Brother and Sister Winters received their patriarchal blessings in the temple at Kirtland, and before blessings A PIONEER MOTHER'S GRAVE 239 were recorded in books, from Father Joseph Smith, but while they 'were living on the prairie near Nauvoo, the mob came and they had to flee to the city for safety. Among other things not found upon their return, was the large bible containing the family records and the blessings, therefore the children have never had the privilege of reading them. "The family was still in Nauveo at the time of the battle and after being driven out moved to Burlington, Iowa, where they went earnestly to work to get means to take them to the mountains. Being prospered and guided by the Lord, they bought young stock, and by the spring of 1851 their cattle had grown strong enough to bear them on their way, and they moved on as far as Kanesville; there they remained one year. While there, Brother Winters was engaged in making wagons to assist the poor, and his faithful helpmate in preparing for the wants of her family on the long journey that was before them, with patience she toiled through the long winter, while others were engaged in the dance and festivities of the season, switching, stitching many many suits, and those she had no time to complete, were carefully cut and placed away for other hands 'to finish. This devoted mother had strong premonitions that she would not live to accomplish the journey, and when friends would be talking of the joys they anticipated on reaching the valley, she would say, "But I shall never live to see them.", "Tt was late in June, 1852, when they crossed the Missouri river, and they proceeded prosperously along until about half the journey was over, when cholera appeared in the camp. Many were stricken and some died. It was on the morning of - August 15, as they were about leaving the camp ground, that Sister Winters went to a tent containing the sick, and as she looked in she threw up her hands; the sight that met her was appalling to her sympathetic nature, for she beheld the dying agonies of a neighbor and a friend; she had not felt well through the night, and from that moment she was stricken down. The company of ten, to which she belonged, had traveled but a short distance when it was found necessary to go into camp again that something might be done to ease her sufferings. Willing hearts and faithful hands worked with their might, but by the noon hour her spirit had taken its flight, her journey was ended, and they laid her to rest by the pilgrim's pathway. There could be no coffin to shelter her form, but into the deep grave a bed was lowered, and after being suitably robed, and tenderly wrapped, she was laid therein, then the few boards that could be spared from the wagon were placed across the vault and the grave was covered, a making one of the precious milestones that mark the way to ion: 240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE *Twas hard to leave them thus, alone, With naught to mark their tomb, er And wander on to parts unknown, 'Mid sorrow, tears and gloom. * * * *k * But he who notes the sparrow fall will Surely watch o'er these. "In the present case a way was provided to mark the lone grave, and it seems to have been a lasting one. From a broken down emigrant wagon that was near by, a tire was taken, and after being cut in two by the skillful hands of Brother William Reynolds, with a cold chisel, he carved the name of Rebecca Winers thereon, and when Brother Winters saw it, he prophetically exclaimed "that name will remain there forever." And now, after nearly fifty years, it has been discovered and in good condition. After reaching the "Valley," Brother Winters and family made their home in Pleasant Grove, where he died in 1887.' She left five children; Oscar Winters and Mrs. Helen Hickerson of Pleasant Grove, Hiram Winters of Mount Pleasant, and Mrs. Rebecca Tucker of Fairvew, Sanpete county. Alonzo Winters, the late bishop of Hoytsville, Summit county, died at that place about twenty-one years ago. The grandchildren and great grandchildren are very numerous, and to many of her posterity the gospel of Jesus Christ is more precious than any earthly treasure. "Poor, weary souls, who were laid at rest Beside the great highway, Your faithful works will follow you 'Till the resurrection day. "A fitting tribute to the memory of this dear sister was uttered by Patriach Zebedee Coltrin, a short time before his death. In speaking of her, he said, "If ever there was a good woman lived on the earth, Sister Rebecca Winters was one." A Witness. These verses "On The Oregon Trail' were written by a lady traveler who was so deeply impressed with the lonely grave that she sent the following lines to the officials of the railroad. Naturally she thought the Pioneer Mother was on her way io Oregon: ON THE OREGON TRAIL By Anne M. McQueen Out on the desert, barren and wide, Watered alone by immigrant tears, Upon the Oregon Trial she died— Rebecca Winters, aged fifty years. A PIONEER MOTHER'S GRAVE Seeking the land of the storied West, Opulent land of gold and fame, Leaving her hearthstone warm, with the rest Emigrating out of the east, she came. Maybe the heart in her bosom died For grief of some little grave back home, Leaving all for the man at her side— For women must follow where men would roam: 'Twas famine, or fever, or wan despair, That hushed the cry of her silent breast; Close by the trail where the wagons fare, Rebecca Winter was. Laid to rest. Somebody—husband, or son or sire,— Roughly wrought, seeing not for tears, This for her grave, on a sunken tire: "Rebecca Winter, aged fifiy years." Long she lay by the Oregon Trail, With sagebrush growing above her head, And coyotes barked in the moonlight, pale, And wagon-trains moved on by the dead: Till, bearing compass and line and chain, Men-came, marking a way to the west, Daring the desert's drouth and its pain, A dauntless heart in each dauntless breast. And, stumbling into a sagebrush bed, The lineman read, through a mist of tears, On a wagon-tire that marked her head: "Rebecca Winters, aged fifty years." "Boys," said the leader, "we'll turn aside, Here, close by the trail, her grave shall stay, For she came first—in this desert wide, Rebecca Winters holds right of way!" Today the train glides fast to the West, Rounding the curve where the grave appears, A white shaft marking her place of rest— Rebecca Winters, dead fifty years! Her's is the shapen and turf-grown mound, And the name carved on the stone today; 241 But the thought—'tis all for the graves unfound— The others who died upon the way! May---Mother's Month This is the month when the hearts of all the people in the United States turn to their mothers. We should not forget the fathers, in this beautiful custom of ours. Fathers are too often neglected; even so, the custom, recent as it is, has become very popular and the nation itself has legalized the holiday:' May is truly "Feast Day" month in this country, and never was there Maytime, since time began, when there was occasion to display such zest in its observance. First there is the May Day festival for the children. Then comes Mother's Day, when every man, woman, and child will, or should, honor his mother in some way. On Decoration Day we strew flowers in memory of our dead, and on Arbor Day, Arbor Day is in April, plant trees for the living and future generations. The newest of these "feast days" is Mothers' Day, and because it is not so well understood a little history of this festival may be of interest. It was during the fall of 1908 that Miss Anna Jarvis, of Philadelphia, mourning the loss of her mother, conceived the idea that there should be one day in the year set aside in which everyone would in some way honor his mother. She presented her cause so eloquently that, in May, 1910, the day was celebrated in many of the cities of the country. On May 10, 1913, a resolution passed the United States Senate and the House of Representatives, commending Mother's Day for observance by the House and Senate, the President of the United States, his Cabinet, and other heads of Government departments. In 1913 the Legislature of Nebraska made Mother's Day a state flag day, in honor of the patriotism of Nebraska's homes. Mothering By Elsie C. Carroll I've tucked them in, one after one, And heard their little prayers; I've listened to the feats they've done, And smoothed away their cares; I've told the old, old stories through, And sung the lullaby; I've hinted secrets coming true, Till dreams have stolen nigh. MAY—MOTHER'S MONTH 243 And now I stand in loving awe To think such treasures mine; About each face my fancies draw A halo, sweet, divine. But ah, a chill cuts through my heart, I see the years to conie, When gradually we'll drift apart. I've seen another mother's son With eyes of hate and hands of blood. Dear, loving God, did she Once stand as I, and feel the flood Of mother ecstasy? Did she once kneel as now I kneel Beside her baby's bed? And as I pray, did she appeal By wisdom to be led? Perhaps 'tis well the future's dim, And mother hope shines clear. It comforts: "No! They shall not sin; My prayers shall keep them near." Mother Velora Darger In your blue eyes, dear mother of mine, There is seldom a tear or a frown. They are patient and wise, and with, love-light they shine, As they look into other eyes, gray, blue, or brown. — ——— And on your lips, dear mother. Of mine, A smile can most always be found. It's a smile which through my heart-strings you twine. And even in memory it lingers around. By faith and love, dear mother of mine, You have taught me to do what is right. And to follow those noble examples of thine, I will strive with all of my might. Your dear, tender hands, little mother of mine, Though toilworn, and roughened with work, Are dearer to me than any jewels that shine, For never a duty or kind act they shirk. Your heart is brave, dear mother of mine. Though troubles crown thickly around, You rise up above them with courage sublime. Your equal, dear mother, can never be found. 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE O Mother Mine By Maitlda K. Galloway O mother mine, to whom I owe The gift of life so grand, Thou art a masterpiece Of God's almighty hand. Thy pain and sacrifice did call Me from that previous sphere, To revel in the gospel light, A joy beyond compare. But for thy love, the world would end, And Heaven, too, depart. It leads me on to greater things, Gives courage to my heart. When trials of earth shall come to me, And I shall know Gethsemane. Thy faith in me Shall lift, me up, My draught shall be As Nectar's cup. O mother—mother mine, to whom I owe, The gift of life so grand, Thou art a Masterpiece Of God's almighty hand. Being a Mother By Genie Mark Oh these hungry mouths to feed— I can never stop their greed— Bread and butter I could spread, Till exhausted I fell dead. Mouth open like a bird: "I'm hungry" is their word, "T'm starved'—is their morning peep— Seems like I hear it in my sleep; "Mother, may I lick the pan?" "No, you don't, she said I can'"— "Oh mother, please and wont you bake A great big dandy, candy cake?" Their first word when they're in the room Is '"Won't our meal be ready soon?" They come with all their faces gay, "Give us a piece and we'll go play"— MAY—MOTHER'S MONTH 245 The tiny baby in great glee Cries, ""Mate a dinner just for me!"— "You are always baking for others, Bake something for me, best of mothers." Of course, that word can only come From the husband in the home, In the eve, when work is through, - All forget I'm tired, too. They gather round the cozy fire, Of nuts and apples never tire, "Please, mother, bring us just a tray Of nice cookies with carroway."— But when they're tucked into their beds, A snowy pillow 'neath each head, That constant hunger leaves no trace On rosy lips or peaceful face. It's constant work this being mother, But it's my work—I want no other. When Dreams Come True By Linda S. Fletcher Mother of mine, oft, when quietly sitting At the window, when the day is near done,— Watching the glorious clouds of the evening Float in the molten gold-light of the sun, In your eyes is a far-away look, as out yonder All the rich golden glow fades to a dull grey; And | wonder, while watching you silently ponder, What that far-away look in your eyes might say. Are you remembering that long ago morning When, a bride, you entered a world so new? Oh, the rosy dreams that came a thronging,— Did ioo many not come true? And the plans you made, as in the evening Your children clustered around your knee,— How many failed as the years passed, speeding, How few became reality? Rut, O mother mine, if this you are thinking That life hasn't come quite right for you, Ne'er have you failed to heed stern Duty; - Always, I know, you've been faithful and true; _ 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And when comes to all that glorious awak'ning, And these earthly ties again we renew, All the joys you have missed in this world will be waiting, And life will be made right, dear mother, for you. Life and Death For Mrs. Margaret Erickson Tenderly, gently, we'll lay her away, To a rest of serenity sweet, Where pain and affliction can never disturb A slumber sublime and complete. No more shall the ills, to mortals akin, Torture and vex and annoy, The form lying here so peaceful at rest In the realm of Death's bountiful joy. Tt was Life and not Death that brought suffering keen To the body that rests on this bier, And held it bound down in agony's throe So long, for year after year. It was Life that offered no help or relief As the days, months and years went by; From the tortures of Life the only relief For this suffering soul was to die. She pleaded with Life, day after day— To assuage her affliction and grief, But deaf to her pleadings indifferent he stood, Till merciful Death brought relief. Oh, you who fear Death and shun his approach And tremblingly wait for his call, Just pause for a moment—reflect on this scene-- His coming's not tragic at all. He comes to relieve the suffering. Sick, The starving, the wounded, the ill, And bear them in pity to havens of rest, So gentle, so loving and still. Sweet rest to her soul, sweet rest to her form, Sweet rest to her worn, tired brain; May she sleep undisturbed near the grass-covered sod Till in joy we shall meet her again. May her virtue of patience be wrought in our lives, As we travel this path-way of sorrow, Preparing us thus for the angel of Death When he beckons us some sweet tomorrow. MAY—MOTHER'S MONTH God comfort the hearts of these mourners, May they each in humility pray: We yield, gracious Lord, to thy mandate, Thou givest, Thou takest away. "Biessep Be Tue NAME Or THE Lorp." The Form of a Little Child Hannah Deady Tomstk I do not care for the milk-white pearls On the neck of the withered dame; I do not care for the diadem That helps the queen to reign. As I stand, in the shifting sands of time When the winds of life blow wild. Let me hold in my arms, close to my heart, The form of a little child. What care I should a kingdom rise— What care I should it fall— When I look in my babies' trusting eyes Then I am queen of all. And the treasures of Sodom are not for me, I am not by the world beguiled, When I hold in my arms, close to my heart, The form of a little child. If You Should Know Ruth M. Penrose Study the desires of every race, Note the expressions on every face; Know the customs of every land,— Then more truly you'll understand "Fatherhood of God, Brotherhood of man". Read what the prophets of old have said, Study the history of countless dead; Look at the stn and the moon in the sky— Observe the stars as the seasons pass by— Then pray in reverence to God on high. If in these things you don't see the hand Of God, in the wonders of air, sea and land, Follow the lessons which Jesus taught, Fight the fight which Jesus fough, t Then you will find the joy that you sought. 247 Bubbles and Troubles (CoNCLUDED) By Ruth Moench Bell CHAPTER VIII It was wonderful how little Betty responded to wholesome meals and regular hours. In a few weeks she was a round, rosy adorable baby. "As if any one could resist loving her," Marjory exclaimed, "She isn't common with her love. Once she admits you to her heart she loves so beautifully." "And such a choice, happy little soul she seems," Mrs. Collins smiled almost sadly. Evenings she nestled in her papa Collins' arms while he read the paper. And the picture brought back memories to Edith Collins. Suddenly she got to her feet, one evening, and cried: "We have no right to her, dear." "T'd like to know who has a better right," Mr. Collins, observed. 'You saved her life. But for you she would not be the plump, red-cheeked baby she is now. Who has a better right, I'd like to know!" "Some one with a broken life that her love might mend! Betty's grandmother is alone in the little cottage in which she was once so happy with Mitchell Leslie. He is living with his mother." "And the first thing Ethel would say, if you brought the baby to her to care for, would be, 'Oh, I'd be so tied." "T know she'd say that at first. Ethel doesn't realize yet that she is through chasing bubbles. She doesn't realize yet that they were bubbles. Betty, so real and loving, may seem at first a trouble but she will soon warm Ethel's heart again." "Perhaps! But I don't just see yet how Leslie is to profit by the plan." "That part of the plan may fail. I dare not mention it now. But, Oh, I shall pray it will not fail!' Papa Collins was right in his prognostication. "But I shall be so tied!' Ethel Leslie protested when her sister arrived with the beautiful, smiling Betty. "She is a lovely child. But I can't forgive Barney Graham for marrying my little girl. And I don't feel kindly toward Rhea for marrying him. And whatever would I do with a baby? I've forgotten everything I knew about babies." "'Rhea's marriage can't be changed, now," Ethel said prac- BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 249 tically. "And they seem very happy. I brought a bundle of bul. Letins on the care of babies along with her little clothes. Poor little darling she hasn't many clothes." "T can't clothe her," Ethel declared. "It's all I can do tc clothe myself. And I can't do that decently." Nevertheless, Edith left the baby, knowing she would miss for days to come the little arms around her neck and the many baby caresses. Looking back on the picture the two made, Edith decided she had done right. _ Ethel seemed so much more approachable and womanly in the small cozy cottage which seemed to have grown up around her an emanation of her personality. It fitted her as if it had grown and matured till it was an intimate part cf herself. The magnificence of the big home with its entire lowe: floor one big room divided slightly by portiers, made Ethel seem cold and formal and distant. It may also have contributed to make her so. There she was the proud princess, the lady of quality, gracious and charming dispensing favors or hospitality. Here she seemed a home woman, gentle and sympathetic. She had made the place so artistically cozy that once one opened it's outer door, one naturally accepted a comfortable chair and settled down to rest and relax and visit, leaving with visible reluctance. Betty completed the picture. Edith stood for a minute at the door before she left. Ethel was in her big, roomy chair with Betty cuddled in her arms. Already she had won a welcome. As Marjorie said, "there were babies one could resist but Betty was not one of them." Then Edith left abruptly. She would miss Betty so! "I must find the other actor in this little comedy. Of errors," she said to herself. "They may not pick up their cues at once and be word-perfect at the first rehearsal. But little Betty will be a wonderful stage manager. They are bound to rehearse several times and sometime when Betty warms Ethel's heart into womanly sympathy and love and unselfishness and softens Leslie's heart and sweetens his bitter feelings, perhaps it will be possible for them to come together again." "Oh, here you are," Ethel cried gaily as she ran into Leslie, not entirely by accident. "I just took a surprise up to your house." "Up to my mother's," he answered meeaningly. "No, to Ethel's," Edith ignored his meaning. 'It was such a warm loving bundle. I imagine she would like to see her grandfather." "Rhea's baby!" A joyous red over-spread Leslie's features. "What is she doing here?" Edith told him all as he went with her to the train. 250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But what would people say if I went up there now?" he demanded. "Tn the first place whose business is it? In the second place, who is going to care? She is the sweetest little spirit I ever associated with. And I've had two darling daughters myself," Edith cried enthusiastically as she boarded her train. Mitchell Leslie happened into an even more appealing scene than Edith had left. It took him till nightfall to make the dare— men are curious creatures of conventions, protesting all the time it is women who make and follow the conventions.. Ethel had forgotten to draw the shades and Leslie could see through the window little Miss Betty's preparations for bed. Recalling Rhea's babyhood, Ethel was playing "this little pig went to market" with Betty's toes. After which she remembered to "shoe the old horse and shoe the old mare" before arraying Betty in her long, white night gown. Betty crowed with delight and Ethel never seemed more lovely. As Betty still seemed to expect something more, Ethel cuddled her close and sang "Papa's gone a hunting." -The song somehow made Ethel's eyes smart and her throat contract. So she blundered onto another of Rhea's favorites, "I'm going to write to papa." That was clearly impossible. Oh, memories! Memories! If we could only forget! How early, then, we might grow hard and cold]! Perhaps it is well that we are most of us akin to the Irish woman who would forgive and forget but she always remembered. Mitchell Leslie did not go in that night. Perhaps memories were tugging at his heart also. The picture was so faithful a reproduction of his early married life. He could have vowed that Babe Betty was his babv. Rhea, whom a mere man, a stranger, had robbed him of and had sworn she should never return to them lest they make a "Mormon" of her once more. "It is hard enough," Leslie reflected as he moved away from the window, "It is hard enough when a stranger robs one of his baby girl but when that stranger sets himself up as judge and supreme dictator and attempts to cancel that baby's past and presumes to cast it's future clean out of the groove it's parent's shaped, then it is hard, indeed." "That's all I have against him" had been Leslie's comments to Rhea. 'When he robs you of parents and religion (Leslie was beginning, then, to see that religion meant something to him) and robs us of our daughter and-her future, don't you think it is a bit rough?" "You don't understand, papa," Rhea had defended, "his only objection to our religion is his objection to all religions. He says we go to church and pray and sing and think we are BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 251 good and noble saints merely because we have been to church. Then the next day we get angry, uncharitable, selfish, and unfair in our relations with each other." "And human," her father had finished. "But our songs and prayers lift us nearer to God even by so much we are better. If they lift us a bit nearer, so we are, as a result of them, a little less given to anger, a little more open-hearted and open-handed, a little more fair and just and charitable towards our fellow men, then the songs and the prayers have not been wholly in vain. And if our songs and prayers will not lift us into a mood of benevolence, what is to save us from the down grade. (Rhea reflecting, wondered if her papa realized that this might have saved her papa and mamma from the breach in their lives.) "Maybe, if he went more often to church, he might see this notion of his in a broader, more tolerant, light." CHAPTER IX Leslie happened in many times. He came in onto such intimate little scenes as Betty's bath. And some of the iron in his nature melted when, in real Rhea impishness, Betty splashed water over him and crowed with delight. There were times when he was allowed to feed her ladyship. At such times she coquetted charmingly with Dada, as she called him. Winter came on and Ethel, tempted beyond her strength, indulged Betty in a wonderful winter array, truly regal, furs and coat and muff, fur-trimmed hood, thumbless mitts, those ludicrous badges of babyhood, leggings and warm petticoats. Once jolted ~ of a selfishness that was only acquired, Ethel had gone the imit. Leslie came in just as the baby princess was first arrayed in her splendor. The Ethel he had loved was bending over her and going into one ecstacy after another as she viewed the products of her purse; empty now and flat on the table. Leslie looked at her, a new light in his eyes. "And what about your winter coat?" he asked. C "Oh, I can do without one," she tossed off lightly, not daring to meet his eyes for the tones of his voice were stirring a strange tumult in her heart. "I can brush and darn the old one and make it do." Leslie left abrutly. He could not trust himself longer with this re-created Ethel, this woman he found he still loved far more than in earlier days., A clerk from Townsend's called Mrs. Ethel Leslie over the phone the next day. "We have something that just came in we want you to see," he explained. "Can you come right away?" 252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Wonderingly Ethel went.. The something proved to be a cloak, a creation, the sort of model Ethel would have chosen in the days of their prosperity. "Try it on," the clerk insisted. Dazed and dazzled, yet knowing it could never be hers, Ethel, in her most regal manner, slipped into it. She gazed at her reflection in the mirror, then turned and began removing the cloak, so becoming. At this point Leslie walked in and stood beside her. "T told him I couldn't consider such a thing," she faltered. "Tt was I who had him send for you," Leslie confessed. "I could see you in it the moment I saw it." Somehow the clerk discreetly had withdrawn. "Do you like it?" "Like it!" she exclaimed. "It is wonderful, magnificent! But I told you I could not consider a coat this winter." "I was wondering if you would let me pay for it," Leslie suggested. Ethel lifted tear-dimmed eyes to his and he pressed her hand gently. Love! What was love of youth to this ios that made one catch his breath for fear it might vanish, this love of later years, so dear because they had done without it and knew of its preciousness. She wondered now, as she felt the warmth of his presence how she could have gone away from him months at a time! How she could have made parties, instead of his comfort, her chief concern.; "Get Dolf Remlap to fix up the plumbing for you," Leslie remarked when they again entered the cozy cottage as man ana wife. It was strange to have gone through a second ceremony of marriage. The whole train of circumstances that had led up to this wonderful moment were strange. Stranger still was the fact that the simple, practical remark: "Get Dolf Remlap to fix up the plumbing for you," should have been more thrilling than the first whispered, "I love you." The words were so little yet meant his pro. Ection was over her again, his thougntruiness, nis practical masculine knowledge of what should be done and who should do it. Such loving protection reminded her somewhat of the great, brooding love of The Divine Protector and somehow it brought her nearer to that serene, spiritual, practical power ready to spread itself comfortingly over her again. She had strayed and stumpled, struggling blindly without His help, also. "Tf Rhea could only be with us now, and her husband," Ethel wished as they sat at table with Betty between them. She telt now that her love was big enough to include him also. "If they could only give up that vaudeville notion, Barney BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 253 and I could develop our business together as partners now that I am getting it on its feet again,' "Leslie sighed. As if in answer to their prayers and plans, Rhea and her husband, a few evenings later, dropped in unexpectedly. They had cancelled part of 'their tour to get to Betty. "We'll take Betty and leave at once for the coast,' Barney, fearful that his presence was perhaps undesirable, bustled importantly. He said it, however, with visible reluctance. The charm and peace of the little home was like a haven of rest to him and Rhea after the vicissitudes of their tour. "IT must get into the motion picture game," he explained. "This travel business is too hard on the little girl." Rhea did look ready to collapse now that the strain was over, | but so blissfully content to be home and find it a real home once more that she had made no complaint.. Betty, with the instinct of babyhood, was fluttering about both parents as if she meant never to lose them from her sight again.. Ethel and Leslie exchanged glances as they looked at Betty. How it would seem to get up in the morning and not see her bright eyes beaming at them? How they would miss her loving arms as she cuddled close so many times a day! "Don't you think you might find something hvre," Leslie suggested to his son-in-law. "Oh, there's nothing here for me. I don't want any of this 'Mormonism' in my life or Rhea's!" "We felt that once," Ethel cbserved. "And I chased bubbles till they broke and I found there was nothing in them. We have found now the real comfort of our home and religion. Of course Betty has had so much to do with restoring our sanity we shall miss her cruelly." "And you saved her life, too, Mumsie, dear, we shan't forget that, shall we, Barney?" Rhea interposed, gratefully. "But she belongs to us," Barney insisted stubbornly. "As Rhea belonged to us," Leslie insisted quietly. "Tt's the way of the world," insisted Barney. "Yes, some day," Leslie laughed, for he felt Barney's defense crumbling, "someday some young popinjay will spring up, Lochinvar fashion, and bear Betty away and bid her bury her past and her people and cleave only to him." "Here, that's hitting below the belt,' Barney gasped, drawing Betty closer. "That is a different story. Suppose we think it over? For I must admit the prospect of a home like this has got me going. What is your plan?" "Well, Rhea and you could have the big house and we'll keep the little one— 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Why not you take the big house and we'll have the little one?" Rhea smiled knowingly. -"Why, darn it all, this house has turned the trick for all of us," Barney laughed. "The peace and comfort of it fits around one so snugly one wants to soothe one's soul in it forever. It makes one believe in love and religion and babies and all the realities." "If you feel that way," Leslie exclaimed fraternally, "I believe that business is strong enough to build another just like it not too far away." "You darling," Rhea clasped her father around the neck while Barney caught his hand with a friendly pressure which meant thanks and a promise to meet generously with the best that was in him. Unforgotten "T cannot tell why there should come to me A thought of someone miles and years away, In swift insistence on the memory, Unless there be a need that I should pray. "He goes his way, I mine, we seldom meet To talk of plans or changes day by day, Of pain or pleasure, triumph or defeat, Or special reason why 'tis time to pray. "We are too busy to spare thought For days together of some friends away; Perhaps God does it for us, and we ought To read His signal as a call to pray. "Perhaps, just then, my friend has fiercer fight, A more appalling weakness, a decay Of courage, darkness, some lost sense of right— And so, in case he needs my prayer, I pray. "Friend, do the same for me! If I intrude Unasked upon you, on some crowded day, Give me a moment's prayer as interlude; Be very sure I need it, therefore, pray." —Anon. Old-Fashioned Thrift THROUGH THE EYES OF A MERE MAN By Coral J. Black Until a year ago I was addicted to the restaurant habit. For years my work had called me hither and yon about the country, necessitating stopovers at all manner of hotels and near hotels. Consequently the workings of the average home kitchen were as a closed book to me. I had no kitchen problem to worry over, except as it was reflected in letters of protest from the home office over the vaulting proclivity of my expense account. But I was dimly cognizant of the fact that the benedicts in our organization, as elsewhere, were confronted with a genuine problem. The unprecedented cost of necessities, to say nothing of the nationwide campaign for home thrift, made the topic of kitchen waste an extremely popular theme. One was forever hearing what the starving hordes of Europe could do if they but had the thousands of tons of edible garbage sent each week from American kitchens. I often speculated, in a lazy way, about these conditions and wondered vaguely why something wasn't done about it. Wasn't the American housewife equal to the task of conducting her kitchen without waste? Couldn't she practice, to some extent, at least, the wonderful thrift of the French? But having no kitchen problem of my own, all my ponderings on the subject were rather hazy and impersonal. Late in 1918 my work took me to a town in southeastern Alaska—a city it is called by its optimistic commercial club. For a matter of fact, it is a bustling little center, the largest and busiest town in that part of the territory, notwithstanding the rival claims of its neighbors. Knowing that I was destined to spend an indefinite number of months—possibly years—at my new post, and despairing, after the third day, of surviving a protracted course of restaurant meals, as served by the kitchen kings of the North, I looked around for a private boarding house. By the greatest of good luck, I shortly found myself billeted with a private family, not a boarding house by any means, but a good old-fashioned home. I was taken in with the understanding that I was to take "pot luck" with the family. Nothing could have suited me better. The lady of the house, Mrs. Graham, was a gray haired, motherly old soul, the very sight of whom brought back nearly 256, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE forgotten memories of Thanksgiving days spent at grandfather's farm. It was in this well-kept, homey, comfortable American domicile that I learned what genuine kitchen thrift is; not penurious pinching, but sound, sensible old-fashioned thrift. The scraps that leftithis kitchen via the garbage can would not have supported a consumptive canary. Waste! There positively wasn't any. Every morsel of left-overs was incorporated into some dainty dish for another meal. The meals for each ensuing day were carefully planned beforehand and practically all the shopping was done by Mrs. Graham herself, for she was old-fashioned in this regard as well as in numerous other ways, and strictly maintained that the first great waste in the average home took place in the buying. No tainted meat or rancid butter, half spoiled cabbage or jaundiced eggs, slightly frozen potatoes or other vegetables, short weights or "substitute" orders ever found their way into her kitchen. And, strange as it may seem, every grocer and butcher in town was sort o' wise to the fact and refrained from offering her any but the best.: I don't mean to infer that she bought the highest priced cuts of meat or indulged in fruits or vegetables out of season. The very thought of such extravagance would have given the dear, thrifty old soul nervous prostration. What I mean is that for every dollar spent she received 100 cents worth of strictly prime goods. The clean plate was the order of the day and, as I remarked before, all ieft-overs, from the unused portion of Sunday's roast to the bread crumbs from the cutting board were disguised, "hidden, camouflaged and sent forth in fancy dress to the next meal. A bit of left-over cereal was added to the pancake batter, I shall never accustom myself to call them by any other name, And, ch boy! What a delightful crispness it gives them, the nut flavor, the so-different something which I am at a loss to describe. I have often wondered since sojourning in these northern latitudes why the women of the states do not make use of the sourdough pot, which seems to be essentially Alaskan, It is a sort of self-starting affair which requires neither yeast nor baking powder to put the kick in it. A little flour, water and sugar are mixed together and allowed to ferment. After this it seems to become a species of perpetual motion. All that is necessary now is to put a little flour and water in the sourdough pot in the evening, stir it thoroughly, set it on the range until morning, and lo! There is pancake batter, fit for the gods. Of course, they add a little salt, and, come to think of it, a pinch of soda. The OLD FASHIONED THRIFT 257 sourdough pot is never washed out—to the true Alaskan such an act would be little short of sacrilege—but is set away with what dough adheres to the sides left as a starter. One of the nightmares of my restaurant life had been hash. The word had been synonymous in my mind with various disreputable and questionable scraps combined under one title "hash!" And I admit that my stomach sounded tremolo one morning when Mrs. Graham questioned brightly, "Hash, Mr. Briggs?" "No," trembled on my lips, but I saw Mr. Graham regarding me with humorous eyes over his own liberal helping, "It tastes skookum," he remarked. I conquered my aversion and took a little. My surprise was genuine. That hash was delicious beyond belief. I asked for a second helping and— but perhaps I'd better not admit further weakness right here in public. I surely agreed with the head of the house that it was "hyiu skookum." My curiosity overcame my natural modesty and I questioned my hostess, "Mrs. Graham, why does this hash look and taste so different to the restaurant-made article?" "Well, there may be various reasons, of course, but I think most hash is ruined by the addition of water. It should still be when it reaches the table, just tiny particles of food blended into a harmonious whole. The addition of water, a common practice, produces a pasty, mushy mess." - There is an item worth remembering. Don't spoil your hash by adding water to it. It was about this stage of the game that Mrs. Graham began to give me all sorts of small data anent kitchen economy. My unusual interest—unusual in a man—seemed to amuse her greatly. She may have thought I was contemplating "bachelor apartments,'' or that I had in view the training of a Mrs. Briggs, or she may simply have been pleased at my genuine admiration of her ingenuity and thrift. One of her frequent and most delightful dishes was what she called "brown stew." This invariably followed beefsteak dinner and, according to Mrs. Graham, was made of bones, bits of trimmings and whatever pieces of steak were left on the platter. There are stews and stews, most of them a joke among men, but Mrs. Graham's brown stew bears no more similarity to the usual article that does chalk to cheese. This is her method: All pieces of meat were placed in a kettle with sufficient fat—butter or beef, suet preferred—to insure its frying to a deep rich brown. A few particles of onion were added and also browned, then all was covered with water and allowed to simmer until done. Now " seasoning, a few slices of potato, and a tablespoon of flour, also 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE browned, were added, and the ''brown stew" was ready for the table. I soon learned to watch for these delectable stews and nevex did tire of them, for each one seemed just a little more tasty and appealing than its predecessor. Another little dish which I never saw before or since was "cracklins." These were made of the fat portions or boiled or roast beef cut into tiny bits slightly salted and "crisped" in a frying pan. Served on a hot plate with French frys they fairly made a man's mouth water. One day Mrs. Graham made the remark that she had not purchased a drop of vinegar in ten years. "How can that be?" thought I. "We have homemade pickles, salads and various other ways in which vinegar is used constantly." Like Sherlock, I began to make important deductions. If she doesn't buy it she either begs, borrows, or—happy thought, makes it. The first two possibilties being duly eliminated, there remained but the truth—she makes her vinegar. But how? Later she explained tome that about ten years previous to her remark she bought five gallons of the best white wine vinegar. This was put in a twenty-gallon keg. To the "start" was added every speck of jelly, the tinsings from honey, syrup and molasses cans, left over fruit juice, carefully strained, and last but not least, all apple cores and parings were placed in glass jars covered with clear water and left in a warm place for a short time, the juice then being pressed through a muslin cloth and added to the vinegar barrel. And I rise right here to remark that there never was a commercial vinegar that could equal it in flavor. It was good enough to drink, and with prices hovering around $1 a gallon was no small economy. Mrs. Graham asked me one day at luncheon if I would stop at the butcher shop on my way home and get some sausage for her. Of course I couldn't very well refuse, so she gave me thirtyfive cents and admonished me to "see that you get full weight." When the butcher placed the infinitisimal amonut, thirty-five cents worth, on the: scales I wondered in my heart who would be the favored ones, for I well knew it would never reach around her crowd. Imagine my surprise when a platter generously heaped with tempting brown ovals were placed before me on the table. I just had to know what sort of magic was responsible and learned that two well beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sage and a cup of fine bread crumbs had turned the trick. Don't get sniffy, folks, and imagine it was a "substitute" dish. I never tasted better sausage in my life. "Steamed bread!' Oh, boys of the gripsack, doesn't that con- OLD FASHIONED THRIFT 259 jure up before your eyes great hunks of soggy bread served under that appellation. Just such a picture focused in my mental camera when Mrs. Graham announced one morning that this style of bread was to be served. But my fears were groundless, for the real article—slices of moist, steaming bread, most delicious when well buttered, followed immediately. There was no slightest suggestion of a super-abundance of water having ben used in the process. My surprise was so genuine that I was betrayed into asking: "Mrs, Graham, how did you manage it?" "Manage what?" "Why, to steam this bread so thoroughly without getting it water-soaked?"' "Oh, that was simple." And Mrs. Graham smiled delightfully, as she always did when I registered surprise at her cleverness. "A towel folded beneath the steamer absorbs ali surplus moisture, and it's one of the very best ways to dispose of stale bread." One day at the office I came upon a column of Kitchen Economics, in a magazine, and because I was hungry at the time, I suppose, they appealed to me and I carefully clipped them and took them to Mrs. Graham. "Doing her a big favor," thought I. It makes me squirm yet to think what a ninny I must have appeared to her. They were all concerning the use of macaroni, giving out as the big idea the economical qualities of macaronr as a food. Mrs. Graham read them through and smiled good humoredly. "Let me show you just why these recipes are of so little value from the standpoint of true economy. Take the first one. Here we have one cup of macaroni, one quarter pound of butter, one large sized can of oysters, etc. And again, one cup of macaroni, one pint of rich milk, one large lump of butter, one quarter pound of cheese, etc. "Don't you see that in every case the additions to the macaroni cost many times the price of the macaroni, and that the latter is the only ingredient they have economized on? "That's the very difficulty we housewives have in using most of these printed recipes. They call for unusual and often high priced ingredients when the ordinary woman wants to know how to use ordinary food and get the greatest value and variety from it. "T have often heard my mother remark that 'any one can cook when all they have to do is select what they wish, but it takes a real cook to contrive a meal from nothing,' and it appears to me 'that nowadays if people are to make ends meet women must contrive their meals from very little. 260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Macaroni is a good food and cheap, if prepared simply. We will have some for luncheon tomorrow." And we did—boiled in milk and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter, and it was splendid. Mrs. Graham's methods and homely philosophy will both bear scrutiny and imitation. Plain food, if well prepared, appeals to men much stronger than the fancy, over-dressed dishes of the modern home. In fact, I have come to believe that overdress in the matter of food, as in the case of individuals, usually reveals a woeful lack of substantiality beneath its frills. TELL IT NOW. Bertha A. Kleinman. There's so much I know about you, Let your other neighbors doubt you, O, so much that makes me glad to be your friend, Yet I know, and you—throughout you— That a day may dawn without you, And how little it will count to tell you then. There are days when you have blundered, When your other friends have wondered, And I know so well the dregs that strew your cup, When your peace is shorn asunder By the trials that maul you under, Yet I haven't spared a hand to help you up. There are times when you are tested, And your right to joy molested, And I know the rasping hurt you have to fight, When you scruple to confess it, And no other friend has guessed it, Yet I haven't said a word to make it right, There are moments when you waver, To request a friendly favor That is mine and so easy to bestow; ~ When I know no other neighbor Has a conscience that is braver.. Yet I wait some other day to let you know.. O, why is it hard to tell it, When I have such words to spell it— Things you earn and things you need to hear me say? Why should sheer distress compel it, When the right word would dispel it, And the hand-grip of my friendship change your day! The Awakening of Margaret Forrest By Ivy Williams Stone The awakening of Margaret Forrest from an embittered, grief-absorption, came as a glorious Christmas gift to her husband, Bob. For seven years she had nursed grief, refusing all solace. Then Life had crowded in upon her, teaching that the great balm for sorrow is toil and service. It was the twenty-fourth of December, but no holly wreaths hung in the windows of Robert Forrest's home. There was no tree, no hurrying delivery boys, no happy mystery. The house was immaculate, as it always was. The meal at which Robert and Margaret sat was appetizing, like all the meals served in the Forrest home. But to Bob Forrest, naturally loving and lovable, the silent, oppressive house robbed the meal of its flavor. The food choked in his throat. Finally he pushed aside his untasted dessert and glanced from his wife to the window, piled high with snow. "You won't think of going out there in this storm, will you?" he questioned in a tone which plainly showed the hope of a negative answer. "Tt is the twenty-fourth of December," answered Margaret Forrest with an air of finality. "But this storm is unprecedented," continued Bob. "It is the heaviest one in years. The street department is having all sorts of grief, keeping the streets half way cleared. You'll find no paths, and you're apt to catch a bad cold. It's folly for you to try it." Margaret Forrest turned her beautiful, but seemingly impassive face toward her husband. "I am going," she answered in strained level tones, "as I have done every Christmas since he left us—regardless of the weather. He would have his Christmas if he were with us, so he shall have it out there. I ordered the wreath from Steed's two months ago." "Really Margaret," Bob Forrest fumbled awkwardly with his watch fob, "I fear you're carrying this Christmas ceremony rather too far. If it could do the little fellow any good, it would be different. But an expensive wreath on a mound of snow is so, so sort of useless, especially when there are people in actual need. Jf you would get out and see them, you'd realize it, same as I do. Lots of people are actually in want. Kiddies, too. Don't you think your efforts are sort of misdirected? For instance, I saw Mrs. Flynn this morning. She's the widow who does our laundry, if you remember. She hasn't enough work. Do you 262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE realize this twenty dollars would shoe her whole family in dry footwear, at least? Her Jimmy—" "Please, Bob," interrupted Margaret, averting her face to hide rising emotion, "please spare me all details concerning the everlasting poor. If it had not been for a little street gamin and his greed for Christmas gifts, I might be spared my cemetery excursions as you seem to regard them. Bobby caught those fatal measles at that Sunday scchool Christmas tree where you insisted upon taking him. And the waif who gave them to him never so much as went to bed, while my boy, my only child—well, is it any wonder that I avoid the Flynns, and all other forlorn poor? I can't endure the sight of them; I can't even be charitable to them. You're so gullible, you'll take care of Mrs. Flynn's shoe bill. I know you of old. So does she. Doubtless she rehearsed her pitiful tale and waylaid you. They kuow better than to approach me." Margaret finished her tirade with a bitter, unnatural laugh, which grated upon Bob's Christmas mood. "Tt is a lot of money to waste," continued Bob, as he poked aimlessly at the grate. "Tf it is a matter of dollars," answered Margaret in a stiltea, strained tone, 'there are many things we can spare. The wreath is the only Christmas I wish." -"Oh, there is money enough," Bob hastily produced three ten-dollar bills. 'Here is a little extra, perhaps you will want a holly wreath for the house, or something to brighten it up a bit. Don't you think we ought to make it look a bit festive? And please take a taxi, Margaret, you have no idea how heavy the snow it." "There is no Christmas in my heart, and I want none in my home," replied Margaret, picking up only two bills. "The wreath is twenty dollars, as usual, and I prefer to walk," she finished. "Goodby, then," answered Bob lamely, as he tugged with his overcoat and adjusted his scarf. "But Margaret," he added impulsively, as he stooped to kiss her, "won't you please remember he was my son, too? Won't you say our boy occasionally instead of always speaking of your son? You know I loved him, too, and sometimes I find it hard, this pretending to be happy and carefree," he finished, quickly shutting the door behind him. As he tramped back to the store, Bob Forrest was conscious of having failed again, as he had failed on three other twentyfourths of December. He simply could not waken Margaret. He visioned how she would spend the afternoon. She would dress and hurry down to the florist shop. She would exchange no Christmas greetings, drop no coin in the Christmas pot. She would get her precious wreath and hurry through the jostling crowds out to the cemetery. There she would sit long hours, un- THE AWAKENING OF MARGARET FORREST 263 conscious of the snow, of the cold or the approaching night. Bob Forrest shuddered at the picture. If he could only stir her to action! He thought of the silent house and the cheerless Christmas awaiting him. It was wrong—people ought to be made to celebrate! He almost wished for an excuse to spend Christmas Eve at his mother's with the dispensers of good cheer, anywhere, except in his own home where no joy was permittea to enter. Margaret Forest planned her afternoon just as Bob had foreseen. She tried to hurry through the'good natured crowds— tried not to see the genial smile and numerous bundles—closed her ears to the glad, cheery greetings. Into the florist's shop she hastened, intent upon one purpose alone. But here her methodical plans met rebuff. "I am sorry to disappoint you," apologized Mr. Steed, "but your wreath cannot possibly be ready until this evening. I will send it out as soon—" "Ts it caught in the Christmas rush, too?' Mrs. Forrest glanced coldly toward the large pile of Christmas Eve deliveries. "My order was one of the first, you will remember." "It is not that," hastily explained the florist. "It is the storm. The violets and the lillies-of-the-valley do not grow here, and the trains have been snowbound for hours. If I might sub- ~ stitute—" "There are no other flowers suited for my purpose," he answer was seemingly laconic. "You may send it out to the house tonight. But I will pay for it now." "Did you notice my Christmas prize in the window?" inquired Mr. Steed, anxious to make conversation, as he wrote a tcceipt. "No," was the disinterested answer. "Well, I thought that offering something to interest boys might stir a love for flowers among 'em. They need that softenirg influence, most of 'em. I've got an A. No. 1 sled out there for a prize. You get a chance on it with every dollar purchase. You stand a pretty good chance of getting it, Mrs. Forrest, with these twenty tickets. Take a look at it as you go out. Some boy—" The florist stopped abruptly. The look of mute suffering on Margaret Forrest's face checked his garrulous speech. "Give me only the receipt," she said, cuttingly. Then hurrying through the ever increasing crowds with unseeing eyes, she returned to the house where no commotion or festivity disturbed the silence.; At eight o'clock that night Mr. Steed stepped into the crowd of eager boys who were looking at his prize sled with covetous eyes. "Show me a boy who hasn't got a chance on that sled," he announced genially. 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Me!" "I'm your guy!" "Right this way!' chorused the crowd. "I mean on the square," laughed Mr. Steed. "I've got a chance for such a boy to earn a ticket or two. Might be the very one to get the sled, too?" "Here's a boy what ain't got a ticket, or a dad or Christmas eats, nur nothin'," responded a husky voice, and some cne pushed forward a thinly clad, begrimed boy. "Have you got a bicycle?" inquired Mr. Steed. "Me? A bicycle?" The voice rose in shrill derision. "Naw I ain't but me Franklin lim, is waitin' round the comer. What'll yer have?" "Well then, can you ride a bicycle?" persisted Mr. Steed, noting the thin shoulders and sodden shoes. The husky voice rose again, like the chant of an auctioneer, before the smaller boy could reply. '"There ain't a kid livin' what kin ride something he can't," it finished. "That's enough," laughed Mr. Steed. "Take my bicycle, kid, and deliver these flowers to this address. Get a receipt for them, and I'll give you twenty chances on the sled when you get back, provided you haven't banged up my wheel. Travel ' lively, kid, and you'll get here in time for the drawing at nine o'clock. Watch your step though," he cautioned.. "It's a bad night." With much unsolicited advice from his companions the boy jumped upon the wheel and made a quick dash into the slippery, poorly lighted street. * Ok Kk Ok Ok "Want a lift, Doc.?" Robert Forrest threw on the brakes and opened his car door hospitably. "I could hardly see you for the snow," he added as Dr. Mason climbed in. "Wasn't expecting to see you on a corner waiting for a street car, either. What's the matter? Are you out on some sort of a Christmas lark, or did you loan your car to some poor patient, like you're usually doing?" "Tt's in the garage," smilingly replied Dr. Mason, "getting some new non-skid things-em-me-bobs. Needs 'em, too, can't afford to take any chances. Some corker of a night," he addeu, 'Gust look at her some. Street cars all off schedule, and half the corner lights out of commission. Hope all my patients let me rest tonighht. Haven't had a chance to hang up my stocking for years. Go easy, there, Bob, 'you've no kiddies to play Santa Claus to. Take the corners mighty slow!" "Speaking of patients, Doc," began Bob Forrest in a serious tone. "I wish you'd stop off and take a look at Margaret. She's lethargic. I can't seem to stir her interest in anything since the boy died. She trailed out to the cemetery today with flowers. THE AWAKENING OF MARGARET FORREST 265 Does it every year. I don't go with her, in the hope she'll stop going. Sure wish you could prescribe something to kill her apathy. It's uncanny and depressing. I've offered to adovt a baby, to take her away, to do anything, and it does no good. She lives in the past, and all her thoughts are three years old. Christmas is the worst of all. Stepping into our house on Christmas Eve is like going from a Turkish bazaar into a mausoleum. It's getting unbearable." "Humph! She needs work!" came the gruff retort. "Not just diversion, but laborious work. The sort that'll send her to bed so tired she'll have to sleep—that's my prescription. She needs contact with life, so she'll learn other people have troubles worse than hers. She has too much idle time on her hands; like Cassius of old 'she thinks too much,' " the Doctor laughed at his own wit. "You remember he caught his last sickness at a public tree where I insisted upon taking him," continued Bob Forrest in an unsteady voice. "Never thought of him catching anything. Just wanted him to be a real kid. Ill tell you, Doc., it nearly got me when he died, but it's getting me now, sure, the way she takes it." The hand on the steering gears trembled; Bob Forrest's eyes* blurred with tears; the street light flickered and died, revealing in its last flash the outlines of a slim boy, and a wobbling bicycle over-balanced by a large box. "Look out there!" yelled Dr. Mason. "Throw on your brakes! Heavens man, where's your chains?——I'll be d——," added Dr. Mason, a minute later, "here's a job that will provide occupation enough for your wife. Drive straight on to your house," he ordered. "Might have known I wouldn't get a chance to hang my stocking," he continued with intentional levity, as he lifted the limp boy, whose sodden shoes were garnished wita crumpled, perfumed flowers. Two hours later Margaret Forrest sat in her library and faced Mrs. Flynn. But she did not see the florid', heavybosomed woman. She saw, only the thin, emaciated body of Jimmy Flynn, as he lay in her elaborate guest bed. She saw only the pinched face, distorted with pain; the grimy hands, the stockingless feet, the ragged shoes. She did not hear Mrs. Flynn's rambling accusations. She heard only Jimmy Flynn's persistent, shrill 'voice as he sank under the ether. "Tickets! Tickets! Chances on a sled!" he had wailed in a weakening voice. "Gee, ma, twenty chances, who wants flowers fur Christmas— round runners, an' red sleds—posies ain't in it for me—give me—give—m-e—" the voice has trailed off into blessed unconsciousness.. Margaret Forrest shivered at the memory. For the firs" 266 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE time in three years she felt physically weary. She felt sick from the sight of blood, faint from the ether. How unkind Dr. Mason had been to make her bathe the boy and administer the ether and Bob had never offered to help. How dreadfully the house was littered and tracked. Why hadn't they gone to | a hospital? Why hadn't they left the wreath outside, it. Was crushed and ruined—why drag it before her tortured eyes? How she wanted rest and silence, time to think, to make new plans for her visit to the cemetery—if only that woman woula stop her chatter. "If me Jimmy dies," rambled Mrs. Flynn, waving large, reddened arms, " 'twill be your fault. Mr. Bob couldn't see at all, and me Jimmy knowin' as much of a bicycle as ye know of washin'. Neighborhood kids lets him ride theirn onct in a while. If ye hadn't awanted them fureign posies, he wouldn't abeen in the street when he oughter a bin abed. Time was whin a bag o' corn an' a orange satisfied 'em all fur Christmas, But me Jimmy wants a sled that bad he sneaks out o' the house whin I think him abed and chases down to Steeds, to see who gets her. "Tis no wonder he tried to ride the *bicycle. Thim twinty chances looked like so many gold dollars to him. Ye thought ye needed thim flowers like I needs coal, didn't ye? If me Jimmy dies—" "He isn't going to die," reiterated Margaret Forrest with forced patience. "It's only a broken leg and a few bruises. The car struck him sideways. He's to lie there, in that Very bed, for six weeks. Dr. Mason said so. We'll bring him home to you as soon as he can travel." ' "Well," the answer came grudgingly, "busted legs has a habit o' takin' the rest of yer body along with 'em, Who's agoin' to pick coal fur me while his leg mends? He was a good boy, me Jimmy was, a right smart coal-picker. A sack a week, he brung me, an' me a needin' of it alwuys.". Margaret crept back to the sick room. It was better than listening to Mrs. Flynn's incoherent ravings. Bob still stood at the bedside, watching every movement of Jimmy Flynn's face as consciousness returned. The odor of flowers struggled for ascendency with that of ether. Dr. Mason was cleaning his instruments, wiping a pair of surgical scissors with a piece of tulle. Everywhere they seemed to flaunt that demonlished wreath! _ "Here's a life-sized job for you, Mrs. Forrest," he hailed her genially, "taking care of this kid, and piling up a bit of flesh on his bones. He'll be fussy for a day or two, but after that he'll tax your powers of entertainment, let me tell you." "Wouldn't a trained nurse be better? Really Dr. Mason, I don't understand the ethics—" THE AIWAKENING OF MARGARET FORREST 267 "Ethics be hanged!" The answer came with bitter emphasis. "He'd be scared stiff at the sight of a uniform and cap. He needs mothering and beefsteak. He needs things to amuse him, to keep his mind off his aches. Better move your Christmas tree in here and have your celebration where he can be in on it. Hang your holly wreaths, in these windows. Put one of those paper bells around the light. Stretch a strong string from this chiffonier over to the dresser and hang your stocking up, one for you, and Bob, too.. Might as well make it four, while your about it. I'd like to feel of a Christmas stocking again myself. Jimmy is to be one of your family for quite a spell, Margaret. His mother has no place to care for him." Margaret Forrest's face flushed, but Bob's stern look relaxed, "I could get a tree," he volunteered, giving his wife no chance to demur. "We had a dandy one down in the store window. Trinimings and all. But I'm sort a stuck on the matter of toys. Stores all shut up now." He glanced significantly at Margaret. Something in the soul cf Margaret Forrest seemed to weaken and yield. The barrier which she had built against the world lost its footing. Life with its heartaches and humor was crowding in around her. Here was necessity, eager, insistant. Jimmy Flynn was human, needed care and food. Mrs. Flynn loved him with the same devotion which she, Margaret Forrest, had once felt for her child. Suddenly she realized the need for a Christmas in the bedroom, rather than the cemetery. The flesh and blood child had first claim. "I have a few toys laid away," she seemed powerless to check the words. "He may use them. They have dear association for me, but it being our fault, I suppose—" "That's the stuff," interrupted Dr. Mason with a great show of heartiness. "Make him feel at home. Keep his mind occupied. Go get your tree, Bob, while I am here." "Tickets! Tickets!" | muttered Jimmy Flynn brokenly. "How far is it to the lady's house. Why don't I get a receipt? I did hurry—but the snow—is the bicycle hurt? Why, helloo, Mr. Bob, watcha doin' here?" Presently Margaret Forrest brought her Christmas offerings. With her own hands she had broken the lid from the box where, seven years before, she had nailed up her boy's lost toys. Jimmy was fully conscious now. His mother and Mr. Bob had carefully explained all the happenings—why his leg felt heavy and numb, why a Christmas tree stood in the room! "Here's your Christmas presents, Jimmy," announced Margaret, as she came into the room. "Look," she said, kneeling beside the bed, "look at this dear little white lamb. When 268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you squeeze him—so—he bleats. And here is a kum-back. No matter how hard you try, you cannot make him lie down. Do you like picture books, Jimmy? Here is 'Jack and the Bean Stalk.' See how fierce the wicked old giant looks as he sharpens his knife. And here is a picture puzzle of Little Boy Blue. It will take you a long time to set it together, at first, but I will help you." The words came rapidly for Margaret Forrest felt a rush of fresh grief at the sight of the toys, In her absorption she did not notice the look of derision and scorn which rose on Jimmy Flynn's face. To her he was stili the child of five who had known her boy. He ought still to love picture books—nothing in her world had progressed or grown.; Jimmy moved to reject the gifts with contempt, but impelled by maternal eyes, she read therein a telepathic code of understanding. Child of the street though he was, hardened in the struggle of life, he yet pessessed a subtle knowledge of human nature, "They uster be your kid's didn't they?" he asked, stroking the lamb's wool. "I knowed him. He was a cute little codger. Uster have yaller curls and black belts to his white suits. He alwus give me somethin' every time he seen me. Maybe a orange—maybe just a peanut. Onct he tried to give me his bank. Thank ye kindly, Miss Forrest. I'll be proud to have 'em, cause they was his." Margaret Forrest's chin quivered. The realistic picture drawn by Jimmy Flynn broke all the tottering barriers of reserve. She became once more human. The pent-up emotion of three years found relief in the pillow, shared by Jimmy Flynn's tousled head. "Oh, Bob, Bob," sobbed the awakened woman, "I have been so blind—so selfish, even in my sorrow. It has always seemed I was the only mourner for the boy. Bobby was so generous and free and happy—lI remember when he tried to give his bank away, it was brimming with pennies, too. He would want me to give and not squander money on his grave. We will have a 'Bobby Forrest Christmas Tree' every year; and our boy, Bob, your son and my son, will see and be glad. Would you like something else for your Christmas, Jimmy? Your sisters to eat dinner with you, some pop corn balls on the tree, or a bunch of red, red roses on the dresser?" The awakened energy was seeking immediate expression. Jimmy Flynn winced, but forced a smile. "Do you think the ' snow is agoin' ter last moren them six weeks, Mr. Bob?" he asked, anxiously. "Longer than that, Jimmy," answered Bob Forrest, whose hand was stretched across the bed to the kneeling woman. "It was THE AWAKENING OF MARGARET FORREST 269 coming down like feathers when I brought your tree in. If a frost follows this storm, we'll have snow till March." "Then I'd like a sled," came the quick, decisive answer. "A red one, like Mr. Steed had in his winder. I can git flowers in May— pick 'em for nothin' then. Who wants 'em for Christmas?" "Do you think God will let Bobby see how happy we all are, Mrs. Flynn?" queried Margaret Forrest, wiping her eyes with her free hand. "Quit yer snifflin' and listen, all of ye," commanded Mrs. Flynn in a shaky voice and with glistening eyes. "Listen to them bells aringin' and ye'll get yer answer there. Course the boy's watchin' up there, and me Terrance, too. An' they-re acallin' 'Merry Christmas' to us all. Jimmy Flynn, I ain't half sorry ye broke yer leg'!" TOBACCO SIGN AROUSES INDIANS. Will H. Brown. A tobacco firm sent a workman to paint a big cigarette advertisement on the "sacred rocks" of the Yakima Indian Reservation of Washington. Soon after he had finished the desecration, nearly one hundred braves raced on their ponies to Wapato, arriving just as the North Coast Limited was due to leave. They insisted on searching the cars for the painter. Failing to find him, the Indians returned to the Reservation and washed the cigarette advertisement off with turpentine. It has even come to this: That members of the so-called uncivilized race have higher ideals concerning some things than have some of the representatives of the so-called superior race. White men permit cigarette advertisements in their best magazines, on the highways, along the main streets—almost anywhere the tobacco men wish to place them. There is no time nor place sacred from the inroads of the tobacco interests, if others do not oppose. The foreigners in the United States, called the white race, need some of the strenuous ideas of the native Americans in dealing with the tobacco question. Tobacco is to even invade the Holy Land. While the ''Terrible Turks' were in control there, tobacco raising was prohibited. Now that "civilized 'nations' are in control of a mandatory under the League of Nations, tobacco growing is to be permitted. This will no doubt be hailed as a sign of "advancing civilization" by the tobacco men. The white race could learn some things for the good of humanity from the Turks and Indians. Freedom and the Changing Standards By Mary Roberts Rinehart. (Note—The following wise summing up of the social situation of our nation today, by America's foremost woman writer is copied, by permission, from a' recent issue of the Lapres Home JourNAL.—EDITor. ) The other day there died in England, killed by a fall from his polo pony, the last representative of an old American family. He had nothing to do except to amuse himself, and he killed himself in doing it. Behind him, to produce and equip him with sufficient wealth to enable him to live without effort, lay three centuries of laboring forbears, each striving and acquiring, to give him freedom. He represented the failure of freedom when it ceases to be for a principle and is applied in the sense of selfish individualism, First of all, his progenitors came to America seeking religious freedom. They had their own idea of freedom, for they discouraged the observance of Christmas Day, made their sole amusement attendance at meeting, and seated the congregation according to arbitrary rules uf rank and precedence, those who gave the most money being accorded special privilege. When that first American ancestor of the boy's went to church, it was under the watchful eye of a tithing man, one in charge of every ten families, who not only saw that his families gave a proper percentage to the church, but kept order during the service by strutting up and down the aisles. When the boy's ancestor slept in his pew he was wakened by the fox's tail which hung from one end of the tithing man's wand. When his children dozed they were rapped on the head with the knob at the other end. BEYOND SPLENDOR IS DANGER Life was simple and hardly comfortable. As its hardships were being endured for a faith, existence centered around the meeting-houses. And as for some reason an easy religion never has held as has the one which is made difficult, the boy's ancestor sat in an unheated building in a hard wooden pew, and was entitled to take his dog along as a foot warmer only by the payment of an extra sixpence. But the Puritans had come to America seeking freedom to FREEDOM AND THE CHANGING STANDARDS 271 worship in their own way, and this was their way. The church was the state in those days, the state, the church, and many of the laws which the church promulgated are understandable from that point of view. The Puritans believed in group freedom, but they knew that no individual is safely free. Their revolt was mass revolt., In those early days, then, society was organized into a sort of watchful simplicity. Later it achieved dignity, and finally and recently, splendor. Beyond splendor a nation does not safely go. So the son of the boy's first American ancestor became one of the ruling class, a clergyman. He received fifty pounds in money a year, the first salmon from the sea each spring, and a portion of every whale cast up from the sea. And he had fifteen children, and managed to rear nine of them in a sort of austere simplicity and according to the patriarchal system. There was no such thing as liberty of the individual there. The home was largely a self-sustaining unit, where all labored and owed each to the other mutual responsibility. It was a benevolent autocracy, a sort of closed shop, not only of the home but of the entire colony. True, there were individualists even then, rebels against the Puritan union. Came in due time a Church of England clergyman who committed the following acts pf mental sabotage: He combed an unruly lock of his wig on the Sabbath; he was heard to whistle—he maintained he was only humming; he ran too fast from church; he walked in his garden on the Sabbath and picked a bunch of grapes. So, after a number of warnings, this early individualist was seized, tried and fined. After a time. However, these rebels increased in number, and actual religious freedom was achieved. Not domestic: the partriarchal system still held. Not social; the colonies were still sharply divided into casts—-the gentry, the yeomen and_ the tradespeople—and there was no thought of democracy as we understand it today. Not individual; men still inherited their father's rank and often business. Benjamin Franklin, as late as his day, had a hard time evading being a maker of candles, as was his father. Servants were "redemptioners," in a state during their service period almost of slavery. Apprenticed servants were sold from ships in Boston. When they escaped they were advertised for, and fully punished when they were recovered. They were whipped on offense, sent to houses of correction for rebellious acts, and were neither beter off nor worse than the negro slaves of the South. American society, then, until the Revolution, was still organized under laws which gave the individual only a certain 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE amount of latitude. Not only law but public opinion was strongly restrictive, and control, which lay across the sea, was in the hands of an anciently organized society, feudal in its foundations, believing almost savagely in caste, and as fearful of the word "freedom" as the colonists were hopeful. But freedom is one of the fundamental cries of the human heart. To call no man master—it is behind that desperate upward thrust of the submerged to-day. And the colonies demanded freedom. C DEMOCRACY AND THE HOME The boy's ancestors fought for it when the time came, and some of them died for it. But again it was not for freedom of the individual. They did not fight that all men should be free and equal; they fought for the right to manage their own affairs. And the vast leveling which followed the Revolutionary War both startled and angered them. They saw the old barriers of caste swept away, and a new thing called a democracy taking their place and calling itself freedom. They were afraid of it, for they knew that a nation may be free, but that no man is ever free. They bowed to democracy, but they accepted it only politically and economically. It never entered their homes. All men had a right to be born politically free, but not otherwise. All men were not equal, and never would be. They kept an iron hand of repression on their sons and daughters. They replaced the old religious laws with a code, were affectionate but stern autocrats in the family life, and when the vicious theory of individual liberty raised its head they rapped it, like the tithing man of old, with the knob of their displeasure. Even the next war for freedom, to liberate the negro slaves, did not alter the conviction that, other restraints having' been set aside, it was still necessary for a man to rule his own home and his family for their protection. Certain things were necessary to protect the rising generation against itself: One was the faithful observance of religion; one was the decorum of social life. The boy's grandfather, for instance, spent almost all of Sunday in his church, and took his family with him. At home the piano was shut, and only religious reading! Was allowed. His daughters were strictly chaperoned, and the heavy hand of parental displeasure—followed any violation of the family code. Not only parental displeasure—the churches were preaching, almost without exception, a God of fear and punishment who lay in wait for the unwary. REACTION FROM AUSTERITIES But outside the home were at work already certain influences which tended to undermine it. Gradually a great and very FREEDOM AND THE CHANGING STANDARDS 273 rich nation was developing itself. Standards of comfort were rising. And the land of plenty was luring: other men of other ideals from across the sea. 'They came, bringing the greater tolerance of a sophisticated Old World; bringing the starved desire for luxury that Europe had never gratified; bringing, many of them, commercial ambition and greed. The closed shop of religious belief became an open shop in earnest now, and the old traditions began to totter against the onslaughts of these new seekers for freedom. They brought with them the memories of long suppressions, and they sought, many of them, not so much religious or political freedom as the freedom to achieve and to acquire, There came, too, at the same time, other inevitable movements which threatened the old regime. The development from the austere days, when the center of social life was the meetinghouse. To the complicated luxury of a prosperous nation began to 'draw people away from the churches. 'There came, too, a revulsion of feeling and of instinct against a faith which rules by fear alone. Old Testament theology. Was superseded by a more tolerant and living religion, and that portion of the people " who had been held only through fear definitely abandoned the churches. Probably no single movement in America has been so significant as that movement away from the churches of those no longer held there through fear, and reacting from the austerities of their early lives. And the replacement of that loss by a religion" of love and gentleness will take time. Not so quickly is one belief substituted for another. What is pertinent here is that the boy' s father reacted, like many others, away from the faith of his fathers. And he did not replace it. Almost three centuries of belief were behind him, but he shed it like an outgrown garment -and sat spiritually naked among his fellows. Perhaps even then the catastrophe could have been averted but for the boy's mother. All through the world the busy male leaves his idealism and to a certain extent his spirituality in the care of his woman. It is his cherished belief that women will preserve them for him. He likes to feel that if he lets go, his women at least are holding fast. But the boy's mother was having her reaction too. Up to that time the women 'of the family had lived a comparatively simple social life. His great-vreat-grandmother was one of the famous spinners of her day, and had been the proud possessor of an entire paper of pins, an extraordinary luxury, with which she reared and married a large family of girls. And she reared her daughters herself, exercising strict supervision over them, watching them in church for frivolity, teaching them her own arts of 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE baking, spinning, quilting and sewing. Social life, once centered about the meetinghouse, now divided itself between the home and the church. Idleness was not tolerated, nor extravagance. Owing to lack of communications and of the wide appeal of presentday advertising, enough rather than too much was still the watchword. Each community set its standards by its means, and lived by them. There were fashions, of course—pompadours measured to be exactly the same distance above the forehead as the chin was below it; wigs, with even the children perspiring and itching under them. And strange customs, too, brought about by the exigencies of life. Such a one, for instance, was "bundling," where, in certain walks of life, against the cold winter night and the dying of the kitchen fire, a betrothed couple were often "bundled" together in the trundle bed in the kitchen. It was not considered an immoral custom, and was tolerated, if not encouraged, in some country districts. But family control over the voung women was still absolute, and both industry and thrift were a part of their training. Marriage was an actual partnership, for it had an economic foundation. Even the boy's grandmother, sitting in her great chatr in the twilight of her life, her wide skirts sweeping about her, managed her big house and kept a watchful eye on it. But his mother had a different theory of life. The same immigration which was enabling her husband to employ abundant labor and build a fortune, supplied her home with servants. Things also were being made for her better and cheaper than she could make them herself. She found herself left without an occupation and, as is the way of those with little to do, did nothing. The boy was raised by a trained nurse and later by a governess. He ate different food at different hours, and was put to bed before his father got home to dinner. More or less, his parents became magnificent but remote figures whose function was to supply his wants. They were always busy. They came rushing in, changed their clothes and went out again, and very early he got the idea that home was a place to get away from. The curious thing was that, although his grandparents had been inseparable, the boy early perceived that his father and mother were together as littke as possible. Had he lived long enough he would have realized that he was seeing the working out of a profound truth; that is, that marriage requires mutual interest as well as mutual affection, and that when it ceases to be a business partnership an undue strain is put on the personal relation. The result was that he had no real family life; and the lift FREEDOM AND THE CHANGING STANDARDS 275 of money anxiety had removed the necessity for any initiative. After three centuries of effort had come financial freedom. It may be summarized like this: His grandfather had worked; his father both worked and played; the boy played. On his mother's side, for luxury always reaches the women of a family first, his grandmother had both worked and idled, his mother idled, and the boy loafed. Although the second generation of forced idleness for women brought its keen reaction, and we see women revolting against this stultifying of their lives and their souls, the boy was not conscious of it. Surrounding him on every side were the exotic products of those centuries of labor, victims like himself, boys and girls who had iost their proper heritage of a home, and through no fault of their own. True, home was there. It had meals and shelter. But the home spirit was gone. There was no sense of mutual responsibility. And had he been able to survey the country as a whole he would have seen that not only in homes like his own but in every grade of life the same thing was happening. _ Now, this boy's brief life history is important because, although he represents. A comparatively small class, the social morale of a nation, all morale, is from the top down. And also because it is the wealthy: who are the first object of attack by commercial exploiters. During all this brief adolescence the boy was thus exploited. — What we do not seem to recognize is that, having largely let go ourselves, we are permitting our young to be exploited for the commercial benefit of divers acquisitive individuals here and abroad, who can do with us what they cannot do in Europe, rely on our indulgence—or indifference—to our children to lead them to folly and extravagance, that their exploiters may gain. EASY PROSPERITY AND SOFT FIBER These panderers always find particularly lucrative the exploitation of sex. And youth reacts quickly to their appeal. It is full of the joy of life, it is slavishly imitative, and if it is not erotic it is and should normally be sex-inquisitive. So we find that, to make a Roman holiday and to line its own pockets, maturity is exploiting our young, tempting them to extravagance of fashion and of spending, luring and cajoling them to absurd and sensual dress, to strange dancing and lurid music, to all the things we deplore and marvel at. We find our youth sold in the open market to fatten the purses of those mature and calculating individuals who pay an erotic band that it may dance. There is a certain softening of fiber that comes with an easy prosperity. Ideals become less and less important, and things 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more so. To the European our passion for things is not understandable. 'The French peasant has two sheets for each bed, which are taken off, washed and put back again. Buying for the sake of buying is unknown in Europe, as is our easy credit. The boy could buy whatever he wanted and "charge it." It is perhaps this easy credit of ours which has developed us into a nation of lavish spenders. The charge account has more victims to its credit than any disease. A comparatively recent development, it falls into line with our over-paying, over-dressing and under-responsibility, with our general relaxation of vigilance. The pernicious theory that the earner of the family will "pay the bills somehow" has sent many a man to a premature grave. Up to the year 1900 America still retained some of its early simplicity. In most American cities the carriage with two men on the box was uncommon. Men in livery served the few. The average home was content with one bathroom and one maid of all work, if any. Dress and amusement were subordinated to where they belonged. The telephone was not so generally installed as now, when it is as essential as the kitchen stove, and food was bought personally, under the eye of the housewife. Credit was less extensive, and thrift was still the rule. But even then it had become a modified, thrift., Even before the war we were thirteenth among the nations of the world in savings. Our passion for things had become stronger than our desire for security. In the main, both thrift and extravagance are a matter of the women of a country. They are the spenders. The average man will go a long way for comfort, but no distance at all for luxury especially for luxury which he must pay for by his own money. That does not mean that there are not extravagant men, but their extravagance is seldom self-indulgence. It is quite often— we are being frank—to impress himself, his importance, his success, on women. It is the pride of the male, the lion's ruff, the cock pheasant's brilliant plumage. IS IT YOUR CAR AND YOUR BOY OR GIRL? Even then, his extravagance is usually a carefully reasoned one. He will spend all he has, but not more than he has. There is no one, he knows, to whom he may turn over the monthly bills with a divine confidence that they will be paid somehow. It ls true that lt is a man's instinct to give his children more than he has had himself—the college education; the impressive home; the pleasures; the freedom from worry. And there is, too, the element of pride. Other men give their families these things. Not only to stand well with their families, but with the world, they surrender to the indicated course. But, generally speaking, FREEDOM AND THE CHANGING STANDARDS 277 the impulse to increased expenditure comes from within the four walls of a man's home. And he "supposes he will manage somehow." But the real burden of our present day lavish extravagance falls on a certain type of woman, Luxury appeals to the beautyloving, beauty-craving feminine mind. The earlier women ancestors of the boy knew comfort, but they did not know luxury, and hence could not desire it. His grandmother thought she had it when she covered her chairs with horsehair and wore plain, handsewed, durable undergarments of fine linen. His mother wore perishable chiffon, hung the walls of her boudoir with rose brocade, and had two men on the box of her smart motor. Thus it mav be said that men first let go the faith and ideals of their forefathers, and that women are leading the present era of extravagance. Just what chance we are leaving to the new generation it would be hard to say. For extravagance is not hanging one's walls with brocade; it is buying anything we cannot properly afford. If we hand down neither faith, tradition, nor thrift. We leave little indeed behind us. The boy had none of them. In his early days he had had a small allowance, but his ideas of money suffered a vital change when the horses were sold and the automobiles took their place. All over America we find our young people innocently thinking in automobile terms ot monev. "Only four thousand dollars. Dad," said the boy. "It's dirt cheap.": New tires at fifty to a hundred dollars, garage bills of large amount, and a dollar once so important, becomes a trifle not to be considered. The girl of the family wanders in, pulling off her driving gloves, and mentions casually that she has had a "blow-ont'. And needs a couple of "spares." We have established a new unit of expenditure, and with it have come not only new standards of living but new habits of thought. We still quarrel, fram habit, with a rise in the price of milk, but we submit resignedly to. The prices for gasoline, tires and oil. The automobile has radically changed much more than our ideas of money value. It has profoundly altered our social life. With it went the chaperon, the last check we kept on our youngsters, and with the departure of the chaperon came an opportunity never hoped for by the individuals who profit by exploiting our youth; came the road house, the jazz band, the hotel and restaurant dances; came the unrestricted association of the sexes, with less damage. However, than might have been expected; came the new fashions, not so bad in themselves, but amounting to a passion for fashion which is reckless and wrong; came all the panderers—to preach their insidious doctrine that life is brief 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and youth is fleeting, and to swell their bank accounts at the cost of the family savings. The war had little or nothing to do with it. The war provided a spiritual hour for the nation, from which it came out either better or indifferent, but certainly not the worse. There were let loose inevitahle forces—of prosperity, of a reckless optimism, of the liberation of women from old-time tasks, of the abandonment of faiths and ideals, with no new ones to substitute as yet; inventions and machinery, easy credit, and a growing and dangerous doctrine that work is an unpleasant necessity and not a privilege—inevitable forces, claiming their new victims in the name of freedom. But this freedom was really irresponsibility and the search for pleasure, and its victims were the young. Against it, those of us who see the danger are framing restrictive laws. The prohibition amendment was a recognition of a situation, but without an understanding of its causes. The campaign to get us back into the churches is another recognition, and a more understanding one. For reform never comes from without, from laws and ambitions. It must come from within, the result of a straightforward facing of our own weaknesses and failures, and a clear knowledge of where they are leading us. The boy's father and mother looked out, not in. They saw only what they gave him—money and things, a chance to be happy in his own way as long as he let them be happy in theirs. They never saw what they had taken away from him—the four inclosing walls of home, their own comradship, the faith of his fathers and the tradition of labor. When he failed at college and came home, rather shame-faced, he offered to drive his mother's car. It was all he knew how to do. But she had a position to keep up, with her chauffeur, and she laughed at him. THE WORK OF PANDERERS He went out then and went about his business, which he found was to amuse himself. He spent a little time each day in his father's office, but the business was built by that time, and he knew he was not necessary to it. So the panderers got in their work, set him dancing to lascivious music, fired him with erotic fashions innocently enough worn, but appealing to the lusty man-urge that was in him, and when they had got in their work and scandal threatened, his parents shipped him to England. His mother was shocked and affronted. It never occurred to her that pride in refusing an honest offer had had anything to do with it. But it had, and it will also bear looking into as one of the contributing causes toward a dangerous phase of our national life. In a word, that certain of our difficulties come from FREEDOM AND THE CHANGING STANDARDS 279 competitive showing rather than competitive living. Just to live ' requires very little. Even to live comfortably is not an expensive matter. What are costing us more than we can afford are the things we must have because others have them or do because others do them. It is this competitive showing that sends our earners into premature death or into that pitiable dependence of the old on the young which makes age that tragedy it so often is. It is this competitive showing which makes us the easy prey of the panderers, and which gives the younger generation its ideas of money, dress, pleasuie and what constitutes success. It is—although we may hate to acknowledge lt—the arrogant display of a newly rich nation, only conscious as yet of its wealth and ignorant still that wealth has its responsibilities, greater even than poverty. Europe does with fewer things that we demand and saves more in ratio to its income. To the Englishman or the Continental, capital is sacred. He bends his energies to accumulating capital, and that done, he respects it. But he accumulates it. Our attitude is different. We live on our incomes, not within them. Having built up for ourselves a materialistic world, we are more than ever before dependent on money prosperity. We may abandon the churches. We may relax the hold of the home. But money we must have. Z The doctrine of the easier life has affected the earners—not the laborers onlv: all the earners. They see the world going by, luxurious as it means will afford, awheel and afoot, and they see themselves cheated of this new obsession of luxury and pleasureseeking. So they follow suit—would work less and play more; be free—the fine old word again in its present degradation. But with that one further step toward freedom our entire national fabric crumbles to dust. For it is built on effort, and when that effort ceases we are destroyed. We must have money, and money must be earned. Europe is working ten hours a day, while we are talking about six and even less. We may keep out its cheaper labor by immigration laws, but we cannot keep out its cheaper made merchandise. We live by barter. Germany, with a ten-hour day has already, in spite of the war, accumulated masses of material to sell to us. We may keep her out with high duties, but she will undersell us in the world markets, and we shall have a competition we cannot meet. LESS THRIFT AND MORE DIVORCE Reduced to terms of the home, then, we find tow processes in 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE operation: On the part of the spenders of the family, more extravagant habits, more requirements which cost money; on the part of the earners, less production and, in the end, less money earned. And asa result of both, less thrift and more divorce. Contrary to the general belief, it is doubtful if our ioral standards have greatly altered in the last few decades. To offset the freer relationship between the sexes, we have fuller knowledge and with it, fear. The great increase in the number of our divorces, then, is probably economic. It is due partly to the ability of women, unhappily married, now to support themselves. Also to the increased strain put on the personal relationship when the woman has ceased to 'be a co-laborer in the partnership in the home. But very largely it is in direct ratio to the decrease of thrift among us. Only one in ten among us has a bank account. And apparently in direct ration to that lack of thrift, we have twice as many divorces as Switzerland, three times as many as France, five times as many as Germany and many times England and Canada's percentage. ) One thing the boy was spared: He never knew that while he was abroad his father and mother had separated.. It was as inevitable as all the rest. The man began to feel that he was paying too high a price for a trifle of companionship and a woman at the foot of his table. Like the rest of the earners, too, he wanted to stop and play: so he chosea shady by-path of life to play in and eventually obtained—observe the word—his freedom. And meantime the boy died. They met over the boy's casket. He was free, and she was free. They could go where they wanted, do as they would. After all, only one was there who had actually achieved freedom, and that was the dead boy. The fundamental good sense of our people may save us yet— must save us if we are to advance and not go back. It will do us no good to stand by the grave of our dead hopes and weep. Nothing that has been acquired by effort can be held except by effort; not a home; not love; not independence; not prosperity. Pleasure is bought at a price, and someone "pays for it somehow." Happiness comes only by those who earn it, but the searchers go about the streets, hoping to find it lying at their feet. Some men are born inferior, some achieve inferiority, and some -have cigars named after them. The General Procession By James H. Anderson Mexico was more peaceful during March than for years past. Four aviators started on March 31 to fly from Portugal to Brazil. The South African rebellion against Great Britain was quelled in March. Russian soviets instituted a government after their own plan in Mongolia, China, in March. Spain and the Moors were seriously at war in March, by sanguinary battles in Morocco. Italy had much disturbances in March, in the way of political riots. Mt. Etna was in eruption. Incendiary fires in considerable number were reported in various parts of the United States in March. Russia confiscated, in March, the jewels in the Russian church at Kiev, valued at several million dollars. Ex-Emepror Charles of Austria died at Funchal, Madeira, on April lst. His wife and seven children survive him. Armenia is to be given over to the League of Nations for administration, according to a decision reached in March. France proposes an autonomous government for Syria, but raises sharp objections to American financial interests there. The Jewish Passover this year begins on Wednesday, Aori! 12—+the same day of the week as in the year of the crucifixion. _ Dr. Frank Crane, discussing the Irish situation in M arch, claims that it was due to "Ireland seeking glory rater than justice." Herbert C, Hoover, secretary of commerce in President 282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Harding's cabinet, was in Utah in March, on his trip to the Pacific states. China is to be disturbed by civil war within a few weeks, both factions there being in a state of preparation. Great Britain had the experience in the first week in April of 850,000 men out of employment by strikes and lockouts. Russia made threats in March to engage in war on Poland, alleging that the latter was provoking hostilities by trespassing on the Russian frontier. Shantung was given to Japan by the League of Nations treaty, and restored to China by the Four-powers treaty just made at Washington, D. C. The general strike in April this year is merely a further step in a general political scheme to overthrow the present governmen fora soviet. See B. Of M., Esther 8: 21-26. The Roman and Greek Catholic churches seemed appreciably growing toward closer relations, by developments in March, in conferences between those church dignitaries. The Allied powers of Europe practically yielded to all the demands of Turkey in a revision of the treaty of Sevres, thus paving the way for further war in the Near East. The Four-Power treaty, by which all the great nations— Great Britain, Japan and France—having interests in the Pacific guarantee to respect the interests of the United States (and this nation does likewise with them,) was approved by the United States Senate, after considerable debate, Senator Smoot of Utah voting yes, and Senator King of Utah voting no. See B. Of M. 2 Nephi, 10:12. WHAT THE WOMEN ARE DOING Elsie Buckingham of California owns the biggest fruit farm in the world. Kentucky has a state election in November on the question of full equal suffrage for women. Miss Evelyn V. Allen of Chicago, twenty years of age, has THE GENERAL PROCESSION 283 two doctor's degrees in law—one from Yale and the other from the University of Chicago. Japanese women are being employed in Japan as detectives in cases where women suspects are involved. Mrs. Maude Wood Park, president of the National League of Women Voters, was in Salt Lake City on March 7. Seven Nebraska mothers are attending the University of Nebraska where their daughters are also in attendance. Mrs. Winifred M. Huse and Mrs. Mary B. Spenser of Chicago are aspirants to the United States senate from Illinois. French women are engaged this spring in a pronounced movement for equal suffrage and equal social privileges with men. Women are to be prohibited from smoking in public in Massachusetts, according to a bill introduced in the legislature there. Mrs. Pauline L. VanGarven, aged 70 years, won the first prize at an "'old fiddlers' contest" held recently at St. Paul, Minnesota. - Lady Rhondda, lately granted the right to a seat in the British house of lords, is one of the largest coal mine owners in Great Britain. In Iowa, in March, several tickets of women candidates entirely were made up for town elections, and in some instances were successful. Mrs. Nancy M. Lyons, aged 107 years, died at St. Louis, Mo., on March 22. He death was hastened by an accident which fractured her hip. Mrs, Irene C. Buell of Nebraska and her sister, Mrs. A.-K. Gault of Minnesota, both are candidates for member to Congress in their respective states. Women police officers have been disbanded in London, England, on the ground that female inadaptability to the work required there results in inefficiency. A women's vigilantes commit: ee was organized in San Fran- 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cisco in March, the reason given being that smoking among girls was growing worse there. Mrs, Florence Ethel Walker, of Boston, Mass., aged 35 yeat", has been twice widowed, twice divorced, and was married for the fifth time on March 6. The young women and girls in Albania are changing their dress from trousers to short skirts as a result of health and sanitary teachings by American nurses there. Queen Elena of Italy appears at social functions with skirts about four inches above the ankles and with no low bodices, as an example to her people in proper dress. Women jurors and a woman judge handled a case in Wickliffe, Kentucky, in March, in which a woman was accused of disturbing the peace, and was convicted and fined $10. Women will be admitted for the first time in a general conference of the Methodist Episcopal church, which conference this year is to be held at Hot Springs, Arkansas, in May. Princess Mary, Viscountess Lascelles, is the official title by which the only daughter of King George V of England is to be known, now. That she is married to a husband not of the royalty. Mrs. Emma S. Sampson, author and magazine writer, has been appointed one of the members comprising the West Virginia motion picture board of censorship, recently created by legislative act. Princess Elizabeth Tschernitschew, American-born widow of a former Russian prince, was re-admitted to the United States in March. She says she witnessed the crucifixion of her husband by Russian revolutionists. Influential women in different classes of the people in Italy were urged by Pope Pius XI, in March, to use their efforts against the prevailing immodesty in women's dress, and many have responded favorably. Lady Astor, member of the British parliament, who was born in the United States, is to visit this country the coming summer, as an offset to the visit of Mrs. Herbert Asquith, who did not take kindly to American women, but praised the men. Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman General Relief Society Annual Report for 1921 CASH RECEIPTS AND CASH DISBURSEMENTS Cash Receipts Balance on hand Jan. 1, 1921: Charity Fund.................$ 29,116.18 General Fund................ 70,070.72 Wheat Fund................. 239,740.04 Total Balance............0.0.. Ee eee eaee$338,926.94 Donations: Charity Fund................$ 87,567.33 General Fund................ 76,603.91 Wheat Fund................. 4,001.54 Annual Dues for General Boatd 9,697.68 Dues For Stake Boards....... 7,259.52 Received for Wheat Sold...... 4,788.48 Other Receipts............... 60,793.28 Total Donations and Receipts............$250,711.74 Mrotaly jh.. Eens oe ee wee ec eee$589,638.68 Cash Disbursements: Paid for charitable purposes........$ 90,872.35 Paid for general purposes.......... 76,312.67 Paid for wheat................... 683.82 Paid to General Board for Membership Dues.............0.00005 10,808.40 Paid to Stake Boards for Dues:.... 8,684.67 Paid for Other Purposes.......... 50,031.83 Total Disbursements....................$237 393.74 Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1921: Charity Fund.................$ 33,636.99 General Fund...........0.2.. 75,871.39 Wheat Fund................. 242,736.56 Total Balance..............00 cece ceeaes$352,244.94 Total...... Cece ccc cece$589,638.68 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WHEAT ACCOUNT Received and Disbursed Receipts Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1921..6,868,342 Ibs: Wheat donated during 1921.. 19,350 Ibs. What purchased during 1921.. 31,392 Ibs. Other wheat receipts........ 263,229 bs. 0 0) 97,182,313 Ibs. Or... Ose Eee CCE Lee 119,705 13/60 bu. Disbursed Wheat credit with P. B. O....5,664,261 Ibs. Wheat in local Relief Society Granaries........ C. Eoe0ee 794,183 Ibs. Wheat in other granaries.... 167,525 Ibs. Other wheat deposits........ 414,447 Ibs. Total wheat on hand and wheat. Credits with P. B. O.....7,040,416 Ibs. WOis coccogpG000cagB0000c 117,340 4/15 bu. Wheat sold locally......... 93,343 Ibs. Shrinkage, waste and loss.... 48,554 Ibs. 6 0) 97,182,313 Ibs. Or oo. Ccc cae cee ss one see 119,705 13/60 bu. RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES Resources Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1921, all funds....... Cece cece eee eee$352,244.94 Value of wheat on hand and wheat credits with P. B. O............ 140,808.32 Value of real estate, buildings and furniture 2.2.2... Cee eee ee 257,339.11 Value of invested funds............ 47,503.20 Other resources.............--055 48,616.82 Total..........0205. MMIII G0 00$846,512.39 Liabilities Indebtedness........... Eee eee eeee$ 1,550.81 Balance net resources...........04. 844,961.58 ANTEN 56 500600000000880000000000cG000oe $846,512.39 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 287 STATISTICS Membership Jan. 1, 1921: Officers..........0 ccc eee eee 7,454 Teachers..........---.00000-15,628 Members..............20000-25,831 Total enrolled..............02 eee48,913 Admitted to membership during year.. 9,307 Total..... Cece ccc cee ete ees58,220 Membership Dec. 31, 1921: Officers............. 0000006. 7,687 Teachers........-.-.--00000-16,634 Members...........2.00000-28,041 Total or present membership...........00004552,362 Removed or resigned............ ABiooocu00d 5,268 MA we ee eee 590 MOA cee ee acne eee eeeees58,220 General Officers and Board Members................. 19 Stake Officers and Board Members................:.. 1,038 Number of meetings held...................0 000 e eee 44 664 Average attendance at meetings..............2...04. 17,308 Number of Relief Society organizationso Jo Beebe AEEEEDc 1,203 Number of L. D. S. Families in stakes................ 87,526 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken............ 22,034 Number of visits to wards by stake Relief Society Officers 5,364 Number visits made by Relief Society ward teachers durINY YEA oo. Ee eee ete eee eee nes512,998 Days spent with the sick........... 0.. Cee eee ee ee ees 54,907 Special visits to the sick.........-..... 0... Eee eee137,955 Families helped...........-0:- cece cece ee eee eens 7,152 Bodies prepared for burial............. 2.0 cece eee ees 2,699 Number of days spent in temple work................ 65,016 Assistance to missionaries or their families..........$9,415.41 (Note: In the foregoing report, all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues. ) 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM ANNUAL REPORT For Years 1919, 1920, 1921 Activity 1919 1920 1921 Paid for charitable purposes..$68,693.41 $87,170.50 $90,872.35 Total or present memberShip......... Ee-e ee eee 45,413 48,204 52,362 Number of Relief Society Organizations............ 1,109 1,171 1,203 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken..:... 16,249 19,540 22,034 Days Spent With the Sick... 44,023 56,598 54,907 Special Visits to the Sick.... 86,487 111,019 137,955 Families helped....:....... 5,152 5,782 7,152 Number of visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards.........------ 5,614 4,734 5,364 Number of visits made by Relief Society ward teachers during the year........128,912 391,204 512,998 Number of days spent in Temple Work............. 37,933 61,213 '65,016 ERRORS IN COMPILATION OF STAKE REPORTS Correctly compiled reports:—Granite, Blackfoot, Carbon, Cottonwood, Emery, Kanab, Liberty, North Sevier, North Weber, Portneuf, Shelley, Taylor, Tooele, Wasatch, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Western States Mission, Southern States Mission. One Error:—Alpine, Bannock, Beaver, Benson, Boise, Blaine, Curlew, Ensign, Garfield, Lost River, Maricopa, Millard, Montpelier, Oneida, Pioneer, Snowflake, South Sanpete, Union, Northern States Mission. A Two Errors:—Bingham, Duchesne, Franklin, Parowan, Pocatello, St. Joseph, Salt Lake, Uintah, Weber, Canadian Mission. More than two Errors:—Bear Lake, Big Horn, Cache, Cassia, Idaho, St. Johns, Star Valley, Tintic, Alberta, Box Elder, Juab, Logan, North Sanpete, South Davis, St. George, Summit, Twin Falls, Young, Juarez, North Davis, Nebo, Wayne, Bear River, Morgan, Ogden, Raft River, Utah, Hyrum, San Juan, - Deseret, California Mission, Rigby, Panguitch, Malad, Moapa, Central States Mission, Burley, Roosevelt, Jordan, Samoan Mission, Teton, Fremont, Eastern States, San Luis, Sevier, South Sevier, Northwestern States Mission. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -. - - President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -. First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - - >. Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lelene Hart _ Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde rs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - -: - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - - -AmMy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX MAY, 1922 No. 5 JUST MOTHERING Do you know there are many people in this world who need just mothering more than they need any other possible thing? Just mothering?for the lonely, struggling girl who has come from far across the sea, who may earn enough with her hands to feed body and brain, but whose hungry eyes look out with piteous inquiry into our homes and into our own eyes. And why? Weare so busy, so selfishly absorbed in ourselves and in mothering these nearest and dearest that we can't possibly take time or thought to mother the girl who sews for us, who washes and cleans for us, or who teaches the school as a stranger in our town. And the boy? Missionary, perhaps, student perhaps, conyert from another state or country? Alone, without friends or kindred?just a boy in our neighborhood?but O, so starved for a little mothering, not the?'it's-my-duty-kind," but he is hungry for just old-fashioned mothering. And that husband of ours? He may be thirty or sixty?- but he longs always for the sweet, gently considerate mothering that he got from his own sainted mother. Ten chances to cne he has long been shoved aside by the children; and he, too, looks hungrily on while his wife cuddles and pets and wails on every child in the house from six months to sixteen years old. If he gets his buttons sewed on, his necktie adjusted, cr his 290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE new suit appraised and approved it is under protest from the children, and the task is performed with dull indifference or sharp, hurry by the mother of his boys. It isn't the pies and biscuits which his mother made or still makes which draws his longing thoughts and willing feet to her memory or to her actual door; it is the sub-conscious longing of the boy who never grows up for the petting and mothering that went witn the pie. He does the fathering well enough, he has to, or there'd be no house to live in, no food to cook or eat; but his young or his old wife just naturally ceased to mother him after the first baby came. Have you ever noticed how happy a childless couple are? And some old people whose children have left the home of the father and mother, with plenty ot time to get back to the old sweetheart footing? Lovers dote on petting?not alone because the perpetuation of the race depends upon the fulfilment of the mating instinct, but principally because each needs the other, each encourages, sympathizes with the other, and focuses all thought upon the virtues and superior gifts of the other. "Make a fuss over me," ran the popular song of a decade ago?and therein was voiced a truth as old as eternity. O, you dear blessed Relief Society teachers, that's the real contribution you have made to the Church and to the world; it is not so much the pound of sugar, the bar of soap, or the ten-dollar bill you have taken to the homes of the needy. The sick or the disheartened; it is the mothering of the little widow, the petting of the orphaned children, the neighborly interest -you have shown in the new convert, and the loving solicitude you have manifested to the lonely, aged one whose pillow was wet with tears of gratitude after your gentle feet had turned from the door. No one can measure, not even the angels, the far-flung values of mothering?just homely, old-fashioned mothering on the human race. Our heavenly Mother knows?she knows?and she knows that our heavenly Father knows. NOTE By Nephi Anderson "There isn't a workman, I venture to say, in any city or town or even large village, in the whole length and breadth of the United States, who has any social recognition, if he is still working at his trade. I don't mean, merely, that he is excluded from rich and fashionable society, but from the society of the average educated people....... The severance of the man who works for his living with his hands, from the man who does not work for his living with his hands, is so complete, and apparently EDITORIAL 291 so final, that nobody even imagines anything else, not even in fiction" ?William Dean Howells, in A Traveler From Altruria. It seems a pity that William Deal Howells, that "Dean of American Literature," could not have been acquainted sufficiently with the '"Mormons"?their life and religion, so that he could have made an exception to the sweeping declaration regarding the standing of a man who works for his living with his hands in contrast to the man who does not. Such a keen abserver of life as the author of The Treaveler From Altruria was no doubt justified in making the statement which he did on the present condition or organized society not only in these United States, but in every other civilized nation. It is true that there is in modern society a distinct cleavage between the man who works with his hands and the man who does not; and this is strikingly true in Christian communities, although the religion of these same Christians plainly teach that, all other things being equal, there should be no social distinctions between these two classes; for, Paul says: "By one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one spirit." The test of any profession of religion is its effects on the actual living conditions of its professors. The Latter-day Saints claim they have the religion spoken of by Paul, and by the Master himself, as making for oneness and equality, not only in an ethical sense, but in actual contact of everyday life. If the religion of Jesus Christ teaches one truth more emphatically than another, it is that honest labor of all kinds is equally honorable, and should constitute no bar to the social intercourse which is so essential in a community professing a unity of faith. In every "Mormon" community we find ample proof that this unity and brotherly love is no mere theory. The bishop of the ward is frequently the town carpenter. The stake president is very often a farmer. The teacher of the theological class in the Sunday school may be the village shoemaker. All these meet on a perfectly equal social plane on many occasions, with the high school principal, the merchant, or the banker. The gardener may be the spiritual adviser of the capitalist. The wife of the banker visits with the wife of the bricklayer. The son of the tean: ster marries the daughter of the college professor. Character only is the test which makes for class distinction with true Latter-day Saints. William Dean Howells' severe indictment against the world must very likely stand; but the Latter-day Saints, having come out of the world, cannot be truthfully included in this criticism of the world's weakness, unfairness, and selfishness. THE. FAMILY TREE Our fathers planted the family tree And tended it with anxious zeal; What did they know, what could they see, Of future cares or of future weal? Long have those heroes been asleep, Leaving the labor to you and to me; Many the sons and daughters keep For good or for ill the family tree. Much has been done, there is much to do; What shall we answer, what shall we say? Have we kept the faith, have we all been true? In the present light of a later day, Of future labors, of future light, What do we know, what can we see? From the planting of oh, so long ago, What shall the harvest be? ?TIsrael Bennion, 1920 GOLDENROD I've loved the little wayward paths that hurry up the hill, And never tire all the day, but lure me on until My weary road is left behind to journey where it will. That way the blythe-souled goldenrod, her summer to beguile, Crowds nigh against the footway to give and take a smile? Ah, Loveliness, but summer is such a little while! And why you are, of all my loves, the love I must confess Has thralled the rover's heart of me, I cannot tell, unless It is that round my joy you fling. A sweet regretfulness. I've loved the way?I've said it was a gracious way I trod, Whichever way my chancing feet have found you, goldenrod? Each little upward path we took, a nearer one to God. Riveina Lundgren. UDERRESNUONATEONEE To the Agents and Friends of the Mag- -azine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the confer- - ence. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ET) To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your ? Expiration! THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S BEST BY TEST" Ice Cream. Candy Cake:-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223. -. P. O. BOX 17/3 ?? 'SALT LAKE CITY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Ghe Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market Be RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. L Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block Salt Lake City PERCE'S FOOD PRODUCTS Pork?Beans Tomatoes Sauerkraut Temato Soup Hominy Tomato Catsup. Pumpkin 3sYRUP a -?the favorite Ganatorily Packed ? Everlastingly Backed. By in most Utah UTAH CANNINGG:?::.05:; case, Mention Relief Society Magazine The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heber J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine An Appropriate Gift? A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine 'The Daddy of 'Em All ?_. Ozden Since 188? Pierce's by the IX J Da Was, 912 A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service Mm = cx and pS Oe i eo ME ee Se aoe Pe ea a Bm Ve aa! SM. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 Mention Relief Society Magazine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. 