Vol. IX SEPTEMBER, 1922 No. 9 

CONTENTS

Pres. Heber J. Grant and Pioneer L. Sobriskie Young Frontispiece
"This is the Place" Julia Dare 451
The Pioneer Jubilee Annie Wells Cannon 453
Exercises 463
Consolation Zella A. Johnson 469
The Poorhouse for Mother Clara Fagergren 470
A Widow's Prayer Hazel S. Washburn 475
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 476
A Dollar Saved is a Dollar Earned Lalene H. Hart 482
The General Procession James H. Anderson 487
My Conversion to Work for the Dead Nina B. McKean 490
Editorial—Priesthood 491
The International Council of Women to Meet in U. S. 493
Guide Lessons for November 494

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENT

MORAL STRENGTH

THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE is an ideal place to send the young man or young woman looking for a worth-while education. The high moral tone that pervades the College and the moral cleanliness that characterizes Logan combine with the high scholarship of the faculty to make a remarkable institution.

Standard graduate and undergraduate courses offered in:
Agriculture
Home Economics
Engineering
Mechanic Arts
Education
General Science
Commerce and Business Administration

Fall Quarter Opens Monday, September 25, 1922

The Utah Agricultural College
LOGAN, UTAH

It Is Noticeable That Women who have a regular amount deposited in their household checking account each month are also maintaining a growing savings account. By knowing just what money they have to depend upon, they are able to spend more economically. National Bank of Commerce OGDEN, UTAH When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer' Weight (Bleached..................00:000-04$1.40 120 Light weight, bleached... 1.75 160 Medium weight, cotton... 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached.... Ae 190 Heavy weight, cotton No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached 150 Extra white Mercs. 117 Snow White Silkaline.............. 3.40 118 All Merino Wool... 5.50 MODEL KN ITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere. Phone Was. 1828 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Lillian Wirth Maternity Home 1820 South 5th East A most desirable place for maternity cases. Salt Lake City, Utah All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information 111 Light weight, cotton......... 1.50 Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRA} RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used, in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. F. "Everything arrived in' good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION| Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Western Scout Shoes Made of solid leather throughout. Comfortable to wear?have a good appearance?guaranteed to give satisfaction FOR THE MINER FOR THE LABORER FOR THE FARMER FOR THE MECHANIC Or any other man whose work demands strong, serviceable shoes We make them in three grades of elk leather, and also in a split leather, with and without chrome soles?in chocolate, pearl, black. Temple Block Salt Lake City "This is the Place' "This is the place," the leader said,? That beloved leader so brave, 'And we honor today the band he led To fair Utah, their lives to save. How brave they stood side by side How ardently the truth they sought, How bravely they stood side by side As the winning battle they fought. With faith unshaken their tasks they began, Looking to God for guidance and power; All hardships they were willing to withsti nd, Making this beautiful valley to flower. All honor we pay to those pioneers true Who made possible Utah's gem? All honor we pay to the loyal few? Our city,?all Utah, honors them. Blessed Pioneers, for ever and ever Of these in song wwe will sing, Nothing from them our hearts shall sever, On earth and in heaven their praises ring. Utah, Utah, truly, 'oday it seems That God has brought to pass That brave leader's most cherished dreams For surely, "This is the place," at last. ?Julia Dire. lcHAM YOU nn 24 184 PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT AND LORENZO SOBRISKIE YOUNG At Pioneer Monument at mouth of Emigrat? On Canyon THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX.. SEPTEMBER, 1922 No. 9 The Pioneer Jubilee By Annie Wells Cannon And when the century has rounded out its cycle In this now blessed western land, Where once the Indian hunted his wild game And where ourown brave pilgrim band Into the bleak and sterile desert came? Then when you, being known as authors, orators, and men of world-wide note, Shall look upon God's temples, beautiful, vast halls of fame, and costly works of art? Forget not then the founders, and, with true ancestral pride, Remember these achievements are but their promise verified, ?E. B. Wells Ths noble thought of remembrance of the labors, of the trials, and of the achievements of Utah's pioneers inspired every effort of the celebration which was held Juty 22, 23 and 24, in honor of the commonwealth's birthday and the few survivors of that gallant band of men and women who entered the Salt Lake Valley in the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven. The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers took the initiative in the move to make this seventy-fifth anniversary?the Diamond Jubilee?a memorable and fitting tribute to the fathers and mathers through whose patience, endurance and faith such wonders have been wrought in this great western land. But as the thought spread, to the assistance of the "Daughters" rallied a host of prominent citizens, all desirous to show honor and homage to Utah's founders. Except for the Golden Jubilee in 1897, when the Pioneer Monument, which now graces the intersection of Main and South Temple streets, was presented to the state, there has probably never been so fine or complete a celebration in commemoration of the eventful day. Governor Charles R. Mabey, President Heber J. Grant, Mrs. Flora B. Horne, president of the Daughters of the Pioneers, with 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Anna T. Piercey as secretary and LeRoi C. Snow as treasurer, composed the general committee under which all the other committees and sub-committees functioned for the success of the celebration; and to the responsible and exacting position of chairman of -he executive commitee, Hon. George Albert Smith brought the utmost energy and ability. To him was submitted every detail of preparation by all the sub-committees, and his approval of it was a guarantee that. There would be a perfect and harmonious co-ordination of every proceeding; so that from the _ meeting of the trains on the first day; to the escorting of the honored guests to their homes on the evening of the last day, everything worked smoothly and regularly with no time wasted or lost, and not one unpleasant or unhappy occurrence during the whole three days. Saturday, July 22 The "Jubilee" opened on Saturday evening, July 22, with a reception and banquet at the Hotel Utah, the pioneers of 1847 being the guests of honor. Each of these veterans of that first year was presented with a white silk badge on which was his or her name, and each one was duly registered. These details, together with the entertainment of the out-of-town guests during their stay in the city, were attended to by the "Guest Committee" with Mrs. Donnette S. Kesler as chairman, and Mrs. W. W. Riter in charge of ho el arrangements. Bishop David A. Smith was master of ceremonies at the banquet, and President Heber J. Grant was toastmaster. Between courses, the University Glee Club rendered a number of old-time songs in which some of the pioneers heartily joined. These old melodies recalled incidents of the journey across the trackless plains, and evoked emotional expressions both of sorrow and joy among the guests. "Hard Times Come Again No More," and the "Hand Cart Song" released the ready tear, while laughter and merriment accompanied the gay rendition of "Oh, Susannah," "Doo Dah," and "Upper California." Patriarch Harrison Sperry, aged 90, a pioneer of 1847, played old-time dance tunes on his violin, and Prof. George Careless, the veteran choir leader, in this old accustomed, tender way, played "The Last Rose of Summer" and "Bonnie Sweet Bessie, the Maid of Dundee," recalling to the minds of many present the lovely voice of his gifted wife, the late Lavinia Careless, who so often used to sing those old time favorites. The speakers on this occasion were state, county, and city officials and the president of the Daughters of the Pioneers, who each in turn gave a touching and warm greeting; there was also a humorous address on "'How the Pioneers 'Keep Young" by Dr. E. G. Gowans. After the singing of the "Hand Cart Song" PIONEERS OF 1847 AND ESCORTS ON THE CAPITOL STEPS, JULY 24, 1922 456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Grant asked if there were any present who came across the plains in that way, whereupon three arose in response. President Grant also introduced Lorenzo Sobriskie Young, aged 81, the only survivor of the original band of pioneers who left Winter Quarters in the Spring of 1847, under the leadership of Brigham Young, and whose arrival in the Salt Lake Valley, July 24, gave Utah its birthday. The evening closed by all singing "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 4 Sunday, July 23 The exercises of this day were solemn and impressive, consisting of two memorable services in the great Tabernacle. In the morning there was a beautiful song service and historic pantomime; and in the afternoon a tribute service. Mayor C. Clarence Neslen presided over the song service and made the opening remarks. In eloquent and reverent words Prest. Anthony W. Ivins invoked the blessing of the heavenly Father on all present and on the day's service, alluding to the faith and integrity of those who had marked the way into the desert land and giving all praise to the goodness of the Lord for his mercy and guidance. W. Clive Bradford led the congregation in singing Aunt Em Wells' popular song 'Our Mountain Home So Dear," and Professor John J. McClellan rendered pioneer airs on the great organ. A number that was pleasing and effective was the solo "The Flag Without a Stain" by President Grant. 'the audience joining in the chorus; and the "Spirit of Heroes" was excellently rendered by he Southwick quartet. The historic pantomime, "The Songs of the Trail," under the direction of Miss Charlotte Stewart and accompanied by Professor Amedee Tremblay and Professor Edward P. Kimball, the latter a grandson of Prest. Heber C. Kimball, and a great-grandson of William Clayton, two of the original pioneers, followed the song service. In this number, various episodes of the journey and the founding of tthe state were vividly portrayed in song and living picture. The first episode, "The Indians Upon the Trail," was given by the Boy Scouts; then came "The Ca holic Fathers in the West," by the choir boys of the Cathedral of the Madeleine; this being followed by "The Trappers Opening tthe Way," by the Young Men's Mutual. Of Granite stake. Lineal descendants of actual pioneers presented the following tableaux: "The - Pioneers at Council Bluffs;" "A Pause on the Trail at Chimney Rock?'Come, Come, Ye Saints', and "The Arrival?'This is the Place'." The make-up and costumes of these young people produced resemblances that were really remarkable; and old mem-~- ories crowded thick and fast upon the veterans present as the familiar and beloved figures of President 'Young, Heber C. Kim- THE PIONEER JUBILEE 457 ball, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow, Wilford Woodruff and others, appeared upon the scene. The tribute service of the afternoon was presided over by Elder George Albert Smith of the Council of the Twelve, a grandson of two of the original pioneers; and the especially prepared music for the occasion, under the direction of Prof. A. C. Lund, was lovely and appropriate. The Tabernacle Choir gave two beautiful anthems, "Ye Shall Dwell in That Land" and "Thanks be to God Who Laveth the Thirsty Land;" the Salt Lake Opera quartet sang Kipling's Recessional, ''Lest We Forge," and Hugh Dougall, a grandson of President Brigham Young, sang "Come, Come, ye Saints," the congregation joining in singing the last verse: And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too;: With the just we shall dwell: But if our lives are spared again To see the Saints their rest obtain, O how we'll make this chorus swell? All is well! All is well! Assistant Church Historian Andrew Jenson read an interesting and valuable paper entitled, "Who are the Pioneers of 1847 >" showing that there were six distinct groups arriving in the valley in that memorable year: First, the original band of one hundred and forty-three men, three women and two children, led by Brigham Young; 'second, an invalid 'detachment of the Mormon Battalion, under Capt. James Brown; third, some "Mormon" families from Mississippi who had previously joined Capt. Brown's company at 'Pueblo; fourth, a few members of the panty who, under Samuel Brannan, had sailed from New York to California on the ship Brooklyn, in February, 1846, and reached Buena Yerba (now San Francisco) the following July, after a tedious and hazardous journey around Cape Horn, being five months on the water, then braving the terrors of ?he Sierra Nevadas and across the great desert to the valley of the Great Salt Lake the following year; fifth, the nine companies of Saints who in groups of "fifties" followed the original pioneers from Winter Quarters, and were called "the fall companies;' and sixth, members of the Mormon Battalion who, having 'been honorably 'discharged from their service in the United States army, made their way across the southern route from California to Utah. Of these various arrivals, which totalled nearly two thousand, a number returned that first year to Win er Quarters, leaving in the valley during the first winter about eighteen hundred souls, Professor Levi Edgar Young, in a glowing and eloquent 458 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tribute, narrated many of the early experiences of the pioneers, and spoke of their high ideals and culture, their love and desire for education and all the other finer things that might make for themselves and future generations a life worth while. He referred to their love for the drama, and the establishment of a shrine for this art within three years of the advent of the pioneers, dwelling upon their heroism tempered by the sublimest of faith, of their loyalty to their leaders, to their country, and to their God. A choice and tender tribute was paid to the pioneer mothers by Mrs, Zina Young Card, after which President Heber J. Grant addressed the pioneers in his characteristic and delightful way, telling many experiences in the life of his father and mother (both of whom 'were pioneers) and expressing thankfulness of heart for their labors and for the teaching of Church history which he had received at his mother's knee?all of which enabled him better and more fully to appreciate the trials and sufferings endured by the men and women who had so wonderfully paved the way and subdued the land and thus made all things possible and beautiful to those who now enjoy life. He felt honored in honoring the survivors of that noble band, and wished for them all happiness and peace in their remaining years. The chairman, Elder Smith, then called the roll of the survivors of those who entered the valley in 1847, and no less than 67 responded, this 'being the number officially in attendance at the jubilee to enjoy the hospitality and the entertainment provided by the committees. The benediction was pronounced by Seymour B. Young, president of the First Council of Seventy. A luncheon was served the pioneers and their escorts in the assembly room of the Bishop's Building, during the noon hour, under the supervision of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, assisted by a bevy of young girls. Monday, July 24 The festivities on Monday began at eight in the morning, when all the guests of honor and their escorts, with a member of the "guest committee" for each group, were taken for an auto ride to various historic spots where exercises of an interesting and appropriate character were held. A concert by the Firemen's Band was given in front of the Hotel Utah as the veterans took their places in the seventy autos which were in waiting, all numbered and bearing a pennant in green and gold designating them as "official cars." Leading the column in he first car were President Heber J. Grant and other officials, as well as members of the executive committee, and following them the other cars fell into line according to their number, the whole movement being THE PIONEER JUBILEE 459 accomplished without delay or confusion. Each point to be visited was reached in schedule time, and every detail in the arrangement was successfully carried out, reflecting credit upon the fine management of the transportation committee, of which Mr. George Dern was chairman and Harry S. Joseph in charge of auto arrangements. The line of march began with a ride down Main Street, thence east on First South and out to the mouth of Emigration canyon where the first stop was made at the monument which designates the spot where the pioneer leader, President Young, halted to overlook the valley, and uttered the historic phrase, "This is the place?drive on!" Here the Boy Scouts gave a flag raising ceremony and all stood at attention with heads bared while the band played "The Star Spangled Banner." The. Procession then moved on to Fort Douglas where, with the cars surrounding the broad parade ground, an enjoyable series of military maneuvers was executed by the troops of the garrison under command of Gen. McAlexander, whose chivalry and courtesy helped in many ways to make the celebration a success. From the Fort the column proceeded to Liberty Park, past the old Chase home and mill, and, the pioneers being seated in front of the pavilion, they witnessed a pantomime and program given by the M. I. A. Of Ensign Stake, in which descendants of prominent pioneers in the costumes of their fathers and 'mothers, danced old-fashioned dances and presented the episode of he "Pioneers and the Flag." Joseph J. Cannon in a very striking make-up representing his father, Presiden George Q. Cannon, introduced the different characters to the audience, and as Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, John Taylor, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Porter Rockwell and others, with their ladies, in the persons of their posterity, came forward and bowed, it was like a living page from the past. The old "Cedar Tree" was the next point to be visited, and here a girls' chorus, let by Miss Margaret Summerhays, sang "Utah, the Queen of the West," and other songs as the cars passed by. The "Cedar Tree" now covered with vines, stands in the parking at the intersection of Sixth East and Third South streets. In its original location, a few rods from where it now stands, it was one of the few cedar trees in the entire valley, and it became a familiar land-mark to direct the emigrant trains toward the old pioneer camping grounds. After the exercises at the "Tree," "he procession moved to the City and County Building, which adorns the block once known as Emigration Square; and thence'to Pioneer Park, the site of the Old Fort, where the first rude homes of mud and logs were made, and where, in the first year, the first school in Utah was opened. This episode of the first school was here depicted. During the ride to this point 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE o'her spots of historic interest were pointed out, such as the location of the first camp near the intersection of State and Third South Streets, the site of the first theatre, (the old Social Hall) the Lion and Bee-Hive houses, he Eagle Gate, the Historian's Office which was so long the home of Prest. George A. Smith, and other places. Through the Eagle Gate the procession made its way to the magnificent State Capitol, where the auto ride ended, and the guests, under the loving ministration of the Daughters of the Pioneers, were afforded a few hours for rest and social intercourse. If the drive itself had been thoroughly enjoyable. In DESCENDANTS OF THE ORIGINAL BAND OF PIONEERS, 1847, DANCING THE VARSOUVIENNE IN COSTUME calling forth many reminiscences and exchanges of memories and experiences among the veterans, the arrangements at the Capitol were no less thoughtful and welcome. A fine luncheon was served, and easy chairs and lounges were everywhere in evidence; and the "Daughters" were untiring in showing and explaining their collection of pioneer relics. Here also the honored visitors had a splendid opportunity to visit and renew acquaintances, and many were the expressions of pleasute as friend met friend and re-lived in memory's hall the scenes of long ago. The ride to Saltair and the grand entertainment afforded there by the committee and the Saltair management was a fitting and apropriate ending for the three days' entertainment. Conveyed o the station and thence to the Lake pavilion in special cars, the guests were somewhat surprised on arriving at the beach to hear a salvo of artillery, but were reasured upon learning that THE PIONEER JUBILEE "461 it was unly a salute fired in their honor by United States troops. Thes? troops, members of the 38th infantry, stood at attention as the p'oneers passed from the train to the pavilion, and little girls dressed in white passed among the guests, presenting each one with a white carnation. The dance floor was quickly cleared, and young people of the present generation stood 'reverently by while the aged visitors indulged in old time quadrilles, the '"Varsouvienne" and other figures of a former day. A fine concert was rendered by Professor Sweeten's band?an incident of which was the presence among the musicians of three generations of the Sweeten family, the director, his father, and his grandfather, the latter being one of the pioneer guests. The concluding feature of the day's activities was a sumptuous banquet in the Ship Cafe. During the dinner a musical and vaudeville entertainment was given, after which short addresses were given by Mrs. Flora B. Horne, the Rev. J. E. Carver and President Heber J. Grant, Dr. Richard R. Lyman was toastmaster, and in his opening remarks he not only paid high tribute to the. Pioneers, But praised the organization of the Daughters of the Pioneers to whose efforts so much of the success of the celebration was due. The Rev. Mr. Carver was particularly eloquent in praise of the labors, and especially the faith, of the pioneers, emphasizing the fact that faith was the one great message they had given to the world. A sham battle and a display of fireworks on the Lake terminated the exercises in a burst of brilliancy, after which all, perhaps a little weary, but nevertheless gratified and happy, returned to the city. That some of them were over-tired after so much exertion would have seemed inevitable; yet there was nothing of the kind confessed or visible. The fact is that no matter what their age, all seemed as bright and happy as at the beginning. One of the guest committee asked a veteran nearly ninety years old if she might help him to the car, and his brisk reply was, "T don't know as I need your help, but I don't mind your company." In this connection it should be noted that Dr. S. H. Allen and Dr. Jane S. Skolfield volunteered their services in case of need during the entire jubilee, and were assiduous in their attendance; also that a corps of trained nurses was all the time in attendance and would have been available at a moment's notice. To make further enumeration of the scores of willing workers who as chairmen or members of committees, or as performers, participants, or contributors in the various features of the entertainment provided, would extend this article much beyond its allotted length. But their labors were none the less valuable and appreciated, and their reward will be found in the consciousness of duty well done. One cannot omit mention, however, of the constant, active and benevolent part taken in all the exercises by Presi- 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dent Heber J. Grant. His friendly greetings and his social mingling with the aged guests gave them great pleasure and elicited their sincerest appreciation. As time goes on, and as each year marks the rapid passing of more and more of these veterans whom we hold in such honor and affection, how desirable it is to remember and perpetuate, in song and pageant and story, the scenes they saw and the deeds they did! Surely it is worth while thus to mark on the minds of the present generation 'he nobility of purpose and the strength of character of their ancestors; to help them to sense more keenly the debt they owe, and in some degree to show apprec'ation and gratitude for the blessings of today. Such occasions as above described are not only affecting, they are also interesting and inspiring. Let the young people pause in the hurry of lite's broad way and think of those who in faith and earnestness and toil conquered the desert and made possible the wonders and pleasures of the present; honor the gray hairs and faltering steps of those who in the glory of their youth wasted not their time in vain pleasures but toiled and suffered and endured, and with it all were happy, because in their inmost soul there was the love of God and the knowledge of his goodness! Their names? Go view them on the Golden Page, The gift of glory to remotest age; The van of civilization's westward sweep, The few that sowed, what millions yet shall reap. F. W. AMBITION Ambition, when wedded to tireless energy is a great thing and good thing, but in itself it amounts to little. Man cannot raise himself to higher things by what he would like to accomplish, but only by what he endeavors to accomplish. To be of value, ambition must ever be made manifest in zeal, in determination, in energy consecrated to an ideal. If it be thus reinforced, thus combined, the thin airy castle melts into nothingness, and the ind 'vidual stands on a new strong foundation of solid rock, whereon, day by day and stone by stone, he can rear a mighty material structure of life-work to last through time and eternity. The aircastle ever represents the work of an architect without a builder; it means plans never put into execution. They tell us that man is the architect of his own fortunes. But if he be merely architect he will make only an air-castle of his life; he should be architect and builder too. Relief Society Nurse School Commencement Exercises The Commencement exercises of the Relief Society Nurses' Aid Class were held Thursday, July 20, 1922, at Relief Society Headquarters, in the Bishop's Building. The rooms were tastefully decorated for the occasion with palms and fragrant garden flowers which furnished a delightful setting for the class members, who were charming and neat in their blue and white striped dresses and white aprons. President Clarissa S. Williams presided and presented the certificates to the members of the class. The program in detail was as follows: Musical selection..........0.00 cece eeeeeOur mountain home so dear Opening prayer............... 00002 eeDr. Margaret C. Roberts Report 1... 0... Eee ee cece tect e eet eectsMiss Josephine Eagar AddreSS....-. Ccc cece eee cece eeeeAsst, Supt. James N. Lambert Solo (selected).......... 0.0.02. Cce eeeMrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward "What the Course of Training Means to Us".. Mrs, Lillian Overson Address........ Cece cece ect e cee eenaaeeBishop David A. Smith Address.... 00... Cece eee cee eect eee eeeeteeeDr. Geo. W. Middleton Awarding of certificates to graduates.. President Clarissa S. Williams Benediction....... Cee cece eee cece eee eee eesBishop David Lyon In her report of the year's work, Miss Josephine Eagar, who has been in charge of the class said: "The one-year hospital training course for Nurses'. Aid is practically a new idea here in the west, this class being the second one to graduate from the L. D. S. Hospital. We have met with considerable opposition from' some people in the medical profession as well as a few of the laity, but we are happy to report that conditions in this respect are greatly improved. I am very pleased to be able to report that these girls have been very generous in their efforts to overcome these difficulties, although it has been trying' at times. "Beginning August 15, 1921, there were six girls remaining from last year's class, having time to make up on account of sickness, and they did not finish until December 1, 1921. Ten new students entered at his time, making sixteen in all. Out of those ten, only five remained to graduate tonight, some of them, having been physically unfit and others being unable to adapt themselves to the work. The January class, beginning January 3, 1922, consisted of nine girls. Up to date we have seven out of those nine remaining, two having been released on account of inability to adapt themselves to the work. Our class tonight numbers twelve. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE AIDS GRADUATING CLASS RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES SCHOOL 465 "The Relief Society girls are under the same regulations as the girls in the regular Training School. We are working the eight hour schedule, leaving us eigh hours for study, class periods and recreation, and eight hours for sleep. "Following are the subjects which we have had in our curriculum this past year, and which will stand good with possibly one or two exceptions this coming school year: Practical nursing, anatomy and physiology, obstetrics, ethics, hygiene and sanitation, surgical and medical nursing, contagion, first aid and emergency work, pediatrics, hydrotherapy and massage. "In addition to their regular work, arrangement is made so that the girls are privileged to attend the religious services on Sunday, and the Mutual Improvement meetings during the class season. "We do not send these aids out with the understanding that they are full-fledged hospital graduate nurses. They are to be known as Nurses' Aids or Relief Society Nurses, and are to act under the direct supervision of a competent physician or surgeon. We do feel, however, that one year of actual practice in the hospital, together with the theory and practical demonstration which we have been able to give them, is a great improvement over the former nine months theoretical training. "Owing to our limited quarters we are able to accommodate only eighteen to twenty students. At present we have accepted ten young ladies for the class which will begin August 1, and 'in January we shall be ready for ten more. "The members of this class have been conscientious in their work. They have given, I believe, full measure of service and in return have made themselves worthy and strong for the duties before them. I feel that much will be accomplished by them, especially since they are all from remote parts of this, as well as other states where there are few doctors and not many hospital graduate nurses. I can see them in the years to come ministering and giving solace and comfort to the suffering, and making glad those who are burdened. "In our Hospital Home we have been happy. The girls have been dutiful, courteous, and helpful. We have had great joy and satisfaction in our association together, and my prayers and wishes are for their success." Assistant Superintendent Lambert, of the L. D. S. Hospital, expressed pleasure and appreciation in addressing those assembled. In behalf of the hospital he extended congratulations and hearty good wishes to the members of the class whom he characterized as faithful, genteel, courteous, and hard-working women, willing to give the best service at their command. Superintendent Lambert felt that the various communities, some of which are remote, 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will be most fortunate in receiving these practical helpers and will be greatly benefited by their ministrations among the people. ' Mrs, Lillian Overson, representing the class, referred briefly to the early history of the health movement in the Church, beginning with Brigham Young's remarks in Winter Quarters when he said, "I intend to propose to the council of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to care for it." Soon after the Saints entered the Salt Lake Valley, in 1847, President Brigham Young called Dr. Willard Richards to establish a council of health. Dr. Richards' wife, Susannah Liptrot, an English nurse, assisted her husband in giving lectures to the women of the council on obstetrics, nursing, and child care. This was one of the first organizations in America that instructed the mothers in the ways of sanitation and health, and the leading women of the Church took an active interest in the classes. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells attended with a 'babe in her arms. Following this early work, the Church has always fostered movements in the interest of health and the Relief Society Nurses' Class is an outgrowth of this early work. Mrs. Overson said in part: ? "The main thing in our course of study is what we learn of the human body, God's most wonderful creation, and its care in health and in sickness. It is so complex an organism, and there is so much to learn of its functions and the care and at4 tention it needs in health as well as when it becomes invaded with disease and infection, that one could not possibly master so great a subject in one year, or even in manly years of study. But a: least, our course has been very interesting and instructive, teaching us how to care properly for the sick, how to prevent diseases and ill health, and has given us a very good foundation upon which we may build as the years go by. In time to come we may become of great service to humanity, which I think was the intention of the originators of this class. Our study of anatomy, or the structure of the human body, alone has been well worth every minute of our time and it has been our privilege to attend a great number of lectures from some of the best physicians, surgeons and specialists upon the various diseases and ailments of the human body. These lectures have brought to our attention many methods and theories of modern medicine and science. "The practical training of our hands to the little things that will give comfort to those who are suffering, and give it according to the laws of asepsis, is of untold value to us. Another most important feauture of our work is the training of our hearts to give the love and sympathy and encouragement to the sick and RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES SCHOOL 467 helpless, and to subject ourselves to a discipline that teaches us to conform our habits to regular hours of eating, sleeping and exercise, thereby increasing our vitality, endurance, and self-control, which is a big factor in the making of successful nurses. ~ "Tn conclusion, we will say that as a class we appreciate the privileges we have had and the kindness and consideration that have been shown us by the doctors, the superintendent and her assistant and supervisors, and by the girls in the general training school, for our association with them has been a pleasure indeed. We are grateful for the efforts of Miss Eagar who has been a real helper and friend to us, never sparing herself one thought or effort in our behalf, but always ready and willing to help and encourage and show us the better way. We are also grateful for the interest the General Board of the Relief Society has taken in us and for the course they have planned for our benefit." Bishop David A. Smith said that very early in his life he came to understand and appreciate the necessity of giving proper and timely care to the sick. As a small boy of nine he was aroused many times in the dead hours of the night to accompany his mother, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, on her errands of mercy to the sick. He was impressed even then, at this early age, with the importance and value of conserving human life and the necessity of proper care in time of illness. Bishop Smith has watched the nursing work in the Church grow, and his interest has not only been *maintained but has gradually grown until today he feels, more than ever before, that one of the fundamental duties of any community is the maintenance of health. This he said requires intelligent preventive measures, and in case of illness, medical help and nursing, and hospital service. Many difficulties have been encountered in establishing our L. D. S. Hospitals, but it is his hope that we will all work to the end of providing for sufficient hospital care and nursing service for the entire Church. As managing trustee of the L. D. S. Hospital, Bishop Smith, is pleased to receive the Relief Society Nurses in the hospital for one year's training. There has been, and is, some opposition on the part of some of the doctors to this one-year course, the plea being that such procedure establishes a low standard in nursing and interferes with the three-years' course. Bishop Smith, feels that the Nurses' Aids are not in any sense competing with the regular nurses. When they are through they do not pose as graduates but as aids in nursing. He thinks there is a place for them in every community. Previous to the entrance of the Relief Society students in the hospital the work of the Relief Society Nurse Course was largely theoretical, but through the courtesy of the 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hospital the aids are now prepared not only in theory but in practice. Bishop Smith advised the members of the class to be kind and tender in dealing with the sick and to cultivate a love for all of God's children whether rich or poor. He quoted words from Paul regarding the importance of faith and urged the class to have faith in their work, faith for those for whom they serve, and above all faith in their God. Dr. George W. Middleton said that one of the great needs today is the establishing of a nursing service within the reach of all. The rich may have the luxury of fully trained doctors and nurses, the poor can obtain certain service free of cost; but the great class between, which is struggling on a low living wage; trying ot maintain itsself independently and to rear families, is about ready to despair of reaching the desired goal. High professional standards in nursing are very desirable, but at the same time the question of the greatest good to the greatest number should not be lost sight of, nor should tthe vital problem of bearing and rearing children, which is really fundamental to the 'race, be ignored. The L. D. S. Church stands for the establishment and rearing: of families and with its splendid organization, which is so comprehensive, it seems easily possible to arrange for the benificence of surgery and nursing service for all its members. Dr. Middleton called attention to the wonderful opportunity of service which nursing offers. He said that the glory of life is in rendering service to our fellows, and that the work should be sympathetic and guided by a love for humanity. He pointed out how Silas Marner, the pessimist and outcast, was transformed by a little child who came to him and to whom he gave the highest service at his command. President Clarissa S. Williams, representing the General Board of Relief Societies, greeted the members of the class and congratulated them upon their accomplishments during the year. She said that the Relief Society Nurse Class has always been a source of pride to her from the moment of the organization of the first class, under Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, up to the present time. She expressed appreciation to the General Authorities of the Church and to the hospital authorities for the consideration shown the General Board in permitting the Relief Society Class to enter the hospital for training. This training, she declared, has many advantages over the former courses offered by the school, which were necessarily largely theoretical. She explained further that eleven months of the present one-year course are spent in the hospital and the twelfth month is to be given in charity nursing in the home communities of the members of the class. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES SCHOOL 469 Before leaving for their homes each member will sign a contract which will be forwarded to her ward president indicating the charity service. At the close of her remarks, President Williams awarded certificates to the members of the class whose names and addresses are as follows: Overson, Mrs. Lillian...............04. Basalt, Idaho Ottley, Miss Celecta M.................4. Elba, Idaho Morrey, Miss Alice................008-Joseph, Utah Zauge, Miss Bertha Emily......... LaGrande, Oregon Woolley, Miss Celia........... 00.00 eeeParis, Idaho Barnes, Miss Jane...........-.2000005Downey, Idaho Evans, Miss Hortense.................+Arbon, Idaho Thacker, Miss Isabelle.............. Charleston, Utah Christensen, Miss Ferril M........ Mt. Pleasant, Utah Allred, Mrs. Martha................ Blackfoot, Idaho Abplanalp, Miss Doris Margaret......... Vernal, Utah Gunnell, Miss Emma Bailey.......... Wellsville, Utah CONSOLATION 'Zella A. Johnson Oh Father, thou dost know that I am weary, Thou knowest well my load bears heavy now, Oh take thou from my heart the care and trouble; Let faith and love by comfort sooth my brow. Some troubles, Lord, we each must bear in silence; Some cares there are that none on earth may share. 'Tis then we turn to Thee, who reigns in heaven To seek a solace from our load of care. Oh, Father, must I turn away"in sorrow? Has any ever come to thee in vain? Ah, no, my heart in Thee hath found its comfort And strength to take its burden up again. When cares of life and love make earth seem dreary, And friends and loved ones give, not joy, but pain, Forget not, O my heart, in thy repining, That God can give thee strength to try again. The Poorhouse for Mother Clara Fagergren Jim Benton sat musing and planning in front of the fire in his comfortable living room. The deep, vertical line between his eyes grew more prominent, the straight, thin lips pressed more firmly together than usual?characteristics showing Jim in thoughtful and deliberate meditation. Something had to be done and done quickly. The old lady was getting more annoying and trying every day. Only yesterday she walked into 'the parlor, sleeves rolled up, and enveloped in a huge kitchen apron, where Helen, his wife, was entertaining some stylish company; and the day before that she had insisted on helping the Jaundry-woman with the washing. And the way she behaved at the table! 'Jim shuddered and closed his eyes at the recollection of her scooping the gravy with her knife and cooling her tea in a saucer. His patience and forbearance coin his feeble and failing old mother was at an end. He must and would consider his own family and his position in the community. He had reached the decision to transfer his mother to the county infirmary where she would have companions her own age and would be well looked after. At his house she was everlastingly embarrassing his family by her old-fashioned ways and lack of manners. Of course, she would not need to live at the infirmary as a charity member. He would see to it that she was paid for, she would have a room all to herself. And he would also send her books and delicacies. Furthermore, they needed the little room which his mother now occupied. His wife had suggested it would be an ideal place for a fernery because the room was on the north side of the house and inclined to be a little damp. Besides, it seemed hardly fair that he alone should assume the whole burden of his mother's support when there were four more brothers in the family. However, the others lived a long way off, two on barren homesteads and the other two squeezing out an existence in factories; just the same, they ought to contribute their share toward the support of their mother. Suddenly, Jim seemed to find himself transferred to a large and bare room in which a meeting of some kind was being held. Looking about him, curiously, he saw a multitude of old and bent forms of men and women sitting huddled on rows of wooden seats. On the stolid faces he read of hardships, of sorrows, of disappointments. Their heavy, dim eyes expressed no hope; their THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 471 quivering old lips were unable to smile. There seemed to be a festive occasion of some kind because the whole assembly had made pitiful attempts at dressing up; the men in clean overalls and light-colored, frayed shirts; with antique, high collars about their wrinkled necks; the women's straight, shapeless dresses of the same pattern and color, such clothes as are furnished free to inmates in the poorhouse. The seats in front were occupied by a few visitors who in the kindness of their hearts had come to furnish entertainment and cheer to the poor inmates in the infirmary on this gray morning. An impromp u choir sang inspiring songs, and a sympathetic speaker repeated the story that never grows old; the birth of the Savior, his teachings, and the beautiful gospel of the resurrection and the life. The inmates listened interested and animated, for the time being forgetting their loneliness and misery and became like children again. One old soul, hands shaking with palsy and joining in the singing. In a dark corner a little twisted woman eyes steaming with maudlin tears, insisted on standing up and rocked violently back and forth, keeping time to the music with her whole body. <A half-witted man who, unknown to himself, had grown hoary and repulsive in sight, slapped his knees repeatedly and stamped his big feet noisily on the floor at the slightest prevocation. A stout woman, her gray hair cut short, and her paralyzed limbs stretched out helplessly in a wheel chair, glared fiercely and wrathfully at the assembled people, her befuddled mind unable to grasp the meaning, or appreciate the efforts, of the entertainers. Jim found himself scanning the features of the visitors hoping and praying that no one would recognize him-in these miserable surroundings. He felt a grievance, a dull resentment towards the members of his family who allowed his being interned in this institution, while they themselves lived in comfortable and pleasant homes. He figured mentally the endless chain of days and weeks he would be compelled to associate with these helpless and apathetic creatures; of the long hours of brooding in his small, cell-like room, and eating the monotonous, tasteless food on the oilcloth-covered tables. He groaned aloud. This was living death. Far better to rest under the green sod on the hillside than to endure this anguish. The entertainment over, the visitors distributed among the inmates small boxes and refreshments, a few candies, a glass of jelly, a little fruit. How the poor people rejoiced when receiving this little treat. Afraid not to get his share, Jim pressed forward and grabbed a box with trembling fingers. A kind, smiling lady assisted him to his seat again, saying: "We have brought a package for every one of you. No one shall be disappointed." 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE After the visitors had left, the inmates were taken back to their room. To his surprise Jim found himself using a crutch. Hobbling along the long and bleak walls he passed rooms from: which afflicted and bedridden old people had not stirred for years. The attendants brought them their food. Then they were left waiting, waiting. At the end of a passage, Jim found his little room. In it he treasured a few keepsakes from his once prosperous home; a photograph of his wife and of his son stood on the table, and a few trinkets adorned the plain dresser. Sinking down in his chair the lonely man thought regretfully of his younger days, of his home, of his family. Evidently his family had forgotten him. Not a visit, not a _ letter, not a word. He knew his son to be a prominent member in the community. Had he not himself seen to it that the boy received a good education and had been trained to fill a responsible position in life? The father's great aim had been to have his son take advantage of every opportunity that came his way. Had he not shielded his son from every hardship he had ? passed through himself, and gladly bearing the heaviest burden, that his son might enjoy the good things in life? Shivering with cold he pulled himself together. O! The ingratitude of children! Sobs of self-pity rose thick in his throat. He felt himself slipping, then he struck the floor with a dull thud. Frightened, he opened his eyes and looked about him bewildered at the familiar objects in his own cozy living room. His wife stood by his side looking anxiously down at him. "You must have had a bad dream," she said. "Your sobbing frightened me.' The fire in the grate had died out, therefore "he room was dim and chilly. With an articulation of relief Jim sprang to his feet and turned on the light. He examined the place as if he had been absent a long time. His wife regarded him, puzzled. He remembered distinctly of sitting in the easy chair, planning?what? Ah, now he knew. Something about his mother. "I must see mother at once," he announced to the astonished woman; then he turned and left the room without a word of explanation. In a trice he stood at the door of his mother's room At his hurried knocking she opened the door, wonderingly, for not often did she receive any callers, especially at this late hour. Jim, a trifle embarrassed, looked down at the shrunken form; at 'he gnarled and work-worn hands; at the thin, gray hair, and at the lustreless old eyes that looked upon him now full of pride and love. He shifted his eyes for an instant to an old family portrait on the wall?his father, then a robust man of forty, seated, and his mother, then a beautiful and plump woman, standing proudly by the side of her husband holding the youngest child, himself, by the THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 473 hand. Around them were grouped in unnatural and stiff positions the older children all decked out in their Sunday best. He had often heard his mother relate how it took her a week to get ready for that picture. "Mother," he began awkwardly, "I have been thinking this room too small and too drafty for you. How would you like to be moved into the south room where you would get the sun all day? You could use this little room as a sort of a kitchen where you could prepare your meals when not feeling like joining us in the dining room. The old lady's face glowed with pleasure and satisfaction. "Do you know," she confided, "I've often wished I could get my own meals whenever I wanted them, but disliked to say anything because I felt I'm too much of a bother as it is. I know my ways are old-fashioned and simple, while your family is inclined to be stylish. Sometimes I've wanted only something light for supper; when I kept house we used to eat dinner in the middle of the day, but you people have your big meal at night, and somehow or other I can't get used to it." "Now, mother," Jim said reproachfully, "why didn't you let us know what you wanted?" "T knew everything would come out all right in time," the mother replied, hopefully. "Your father was convinced you'd do the right thing by me. 'Jim's got a good head,' he was always saying. 'If I have to go before he finishes his education, don't you give up. See to it that he gets through school. He'll repay you for any sacrifice you make.' " The big man blushed guiltily, and for a few moments busily studied the pattern on the carpet. His mother went on reminiscently: "When father died I was forced to sell our home to clear the debts. Many's the time the older boys got after me for not taking you out of school and putting you to work. Your brother Robert got real nasty about it, and vowed if the bringing up he had had wasn't good enough for you he'd never turn his hand over for me or do mea good turn. HowI suffered to hear him talk like that! In the first place he had no head for learning; and even if he had been inclined to study from books we couldn't send him to school because we lived fifty miles from the nearest town. "Then, little by little, the other boys got dissatisfied, too. They was everlastingly pestering me why I slaved the way I done just to keep you in school. 'Is he any better than the rest of us?' they taunted. 'Put the loafer to work and save your own back.' " Jim now understood the aloofness with which the brothers regarded himself and his mother. Small wonder they seldom inquired after the state of her health, sometimes not even writing 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her a letter for months. And she had borne all this for him who had planned?he groaned in anguish and remorse! His mother, warmed up to her subject, noticed him not, but continued, uninterrupted: "T loved all my children alike, no one can say anything else. But times in them days was different. The boys had to work alongside their father clearing the 'land and helping to make the living. Finally, when we let them attend the log cabin school, that was eventually built in our district, we done what the other settlers done, the best we could do. For all of that. I've heard of several of them boys who went to that very same school that have become lawyers and doctors and I don't know what. As time went on things went a little better for us. The railroad was coming through, and that gave the boys a chance to work on the road and make good wages. If it hadn't been for father dying when he did, and leaving a lot of notes he'd signed for some no-account men, we would have been pretty well fixed. As it was, we was forced to move to the city where your brothers soon got married and you had a good chance to go to school. It kept me digging to make ends meet, but I was strong and robust in them days. Besides, it was a pleasure to hear your teachers praise you and tell how well you got along in your lessons. "T could stand the tussle pretty well until you went east to finish up. The big washings I done then still makes my back ache whenever I think of them. And the piles of sewing and scrubbing, to say nothing of the days and weeks I waited on sick people; I was scared to turn down a single offer where I could make a dollar for fear you'd run short. I couldn't bear to think of you away from home and among strangers without 'he necessary things of life. Always I seemed to hear father's words: 'He'll repay you for any sacrifice you make.' "Whenever I heard how much money other parents sent their sons in college, I cried because I couldn't send you more! It seemed a mere pittance compared to what other boys had. Never a cent did I spend on my own back during them years. Everytime I paid out a dollar for something that was absolutely necessary for myself I seemed to be robbing you. I shall never forget the day you returned home from college with your diploma. I believe that was the proudest day in my life not counting the time I became the wife of your father. I kept repeating to myself, over and over: 'I've done it; I've pulled him through; he's my baby boy just the same, even though he's now graduated from college!' "After you got married and I made my home with you, I've sometimes felt like I was in the way! It's impossible for me to change my plain habits, or correct my faulty speech, I ain't so dumb but what I know when the young people wink at each other THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 475 when I make a slip in my talk or don't act just right at the table. But what could I do? I have no place to go unless I choose the poorhouse, and I would rather die than go there. There's no pleasure in mixing with people who look down on me. Not that I want to be noticed much; I just want to be left alone to putter around doing the things I'm used to. I have a feeling I shan't be with you very much longer! I've lived mty life and done the best I knew how. If you can spare the south room for me, I'll spend a lot of my time sitting in the 'sunshine?resting." Big tears rolled down the big man's cheeks and convulsive sobs shook the broad shoulders. He laid his strong arms about his mother's frail shoulders and said, his voice choked with emotion: "The room shall be ready for you tomorrow. Father made no mistake when he predicted I would take care of you." A WIDOW'S PRAYER Hazel S. Washburn Dark and gloomy are my skies?O Father, My soul is numbed with grief; My last hope fled, What matter though the sun shines bright for others? For me the world is black and drear, My Love lies dead. The neighbors come with kindly deeds and words, And speak to me of love and faith and trust; They say you heed the orphan's cry And hear the widow's moan; That thou art loving, merciful, and just; And so I take my cross and stumble on, Trusting in thee to guide my feet aright, To give me strength to bear my double portion, And through my soul's grim darkness send me light. Pity, Lord, my weakness and my suffering; Send me comfort from thy love divine Until my soul shall conquer fear and doubting, And I can feel and say, "Thy will be done, not mine." And conquering fear, shall triumph over sorrow And trust in thee throughout the darkest night. For thou hast said, "To those who come unto me, My cross is easy and my burden light." Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman St. Johns Stake The St. Johns Relief Society stake board was reorganized on April 30, 1922, at the stake conference. Mrs. Josephine Patterson was appointed president and she later selected for her counselors Mrs. Ethel Whiting and Mrs. Dora Udall. Mrs. Laura Day was chosen secretary. The retiring president, Mrs. Eliza L. S. Udall, has presided over the Relief Society of this stake for nearly thirty-five years, having been appointed to this position July 23, 1887. She has been a tireless and resourceful worker and has succeeded in overcoming many obstacles incident to building up the organization from a small beginning to its present efficient standard. She has worked with a love in her heart for the members of the entire stake and she has endeared herself to all the women of the Relief Society and all the members of the community. Mrs Udall was particularly fitted by nature, and by training, 'o meet the responsibilities of the difficult undertaking of organizing at this time a Rel'ef Society in this newly settled part of Arizona. During her many years of service she has manifested the earnest devotiom and industry of the pioneer in the cons ructive development of the community, and she has also ever been an inspiring character of culture and charm. Besides her puble work, she has been a devoted mother and has maintained a beautiful and hospitable home., Mrs. M. E. B. Farr, who has served as an officer on the board for the same period, was secretary until 1906, and since then has been the first counselor. Her work in both capacit'es has been of a high standard and she has discharged all of her duties in an efficient and energetic manner. Mrs. Margaret Jarvis has served as counselor since 1912, and she was treasurer of the organization for six years prior to this time. She has been a faithful officer and has been a great asset not only to the Relief Society but to the community because of her willing service in her profession of nurse. Mrs. Rachael E. Berry served as secretary since 1913, and Mrs. Wilmirth Dewitt served as treasurer since 1919. These two sisters have proved to be faithful and efficient in keeping the records of the society and maintaining a high standard in this particular branch of the work. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 477 Snowflake Stake The stake board of Snowflake report that they have examined the record books of all the wards in the stake, some of them several times. The stake is trying to establish the plan of having the secretaries bring their books to union meeting once every three months, so that the new secretaries will be able to receive the necesasry instructions, and so that any difficulties or problems may be discussed and solved. In order to make -he secretaries' department an efficient one a request was made and granted by the stake presidency that the secretaries would not be called to any other position while acting in this capacity. FIVE GENERATIONS OF THE FAMILY OF MRS. WILLIS * The accompanying -picture shows five generations of the family of Mrs. Frances Reeves Willis. Grandma Willis has attained her eighty-second birthday, the venerable head of a family of twelve chilldren, eighty-six grandchildren, fourteen great grandchildren and one great great grandchild. She was born in England, and, at the age of three, her parents were converted to the Church and later the family moved to Nauvoo, and after a year's residence there crossed the plains with the early pioneers. She and her husband were called to help settle Arizona, in 1875, and after her husband's death in 1888, Mrs. Willis demonstrated her determination and perseverance in fulfilling the mission to which she had been called by remaining with her young family in this new community. Her life has been an example of faith and earnestness and she has merited the love and respect of her family and friends. She has been a zealous Church worker and has been especially active in Relief Society work. With the characteristic w'llingness of the pioneer to serve she has spent many hours caring for and comforting the sick. 478. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cottonwood Stake A sewing department has recently been organized in the Cottonwood stake and the Relief Society held an entertainment to raise the necessary funds to make the initial purchases. A delightful one-act play was presented by the Extension Division of the University of Utah under the direction of Professor Chauncey Houston, and several dancing solos were given by the pupils of the Granite High School, under the direction of Miss Tipton. Over one thousand tickets were sold and the affair was entirely successful. To introduce the details of the sewing work to the ward officers, a luncheon was given by the stake board on May 5, in the South Cottonwood ward house. Eighty guests enjoyed' the luncheon, and while they were seated at the tables, instructions and announcements were made. It was explained that the profits of this department would be used to maintain the baby clinic which was opened in Murray last January. Salt Lake Stake. The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society choir gave a concert in the Twenty-second ward meeting house in March. The affair was arranged by the stake chorister, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, and the stake organist, Mrs. Eva. J. Olson. Mrs. Clara G. Smith was the business manager of the entertainment. Excellent vocal and instrumental numbers were 'rendered and an interesting dramatic sketch was produced. Besides being an artistic stccess the concert netted the stake the satisfactory amount of $140. Nebo Stake The Nebo Stake Relief Society presidency visited the Genola branch of the Church on July 2, 1922, and effected an organization of the Relief Society there. The following officers were chosen and sustained: Maud Larsen, president; Anna Neilson, first counselor; Edith Evans, second counselor; Minnie Chatwin, secretary; Serena Rosley, treasurer; Grace Smith, organist; Margaret Hartrickson, assistant organist; Beatrice Larson, chorister. Cassia Stake On July 2, 1922, the Cassia stake board with the help of the various wards gave an entertainment for the "Old Folks" of the stake. They were guests at a matinee at which the play "Sazy" was presented. Later they enjoyed an elaborate banquet which was followed by an interesting program. The oldest sister present was seventy-nine years old and the oldest brother eighty-nine. A Relief Society choir has been organized by the stake and they NOTES FROM THE FIELD 479 are planning to furnish 'the music during the stake conference convention which will be held soon, Taylor Stake The General Board of the Relief Society was pleased to have Mrs. Fannye H. Walker, secretary of Taylor stake Relief Societies call at the General Offices in July. She gave an interesting report of the activities in the Relief Society in their remote stake. She reported 'that President Georgina O'Brien, after her return from the June conference in Salt Lake City, called a special stake conference. This conference was held May 5, at Sterling, and a complete report of the instruction given at the Salt Lake conference was presented to the local workers. An interesting synopsis of the conference speeches was also given at this meeting. It was reported that a pennant is to be presented in August to the ward which makes the greatest increase in both membership and average attendance for a period of three months. As a special activity last spring the Relief Society members decided to plant a tree. The surroundings in this locality are not very attractive as the country is newly settled and somewhat barren, This campaign of tree-planting was instituted with the view of making the community more attractive. The women are also encouraged to plant flower gardens and the Relief Society is planning to have a festival in the fall, a feature of which is to be a flower show. California Mission The Relief Society office was pleased to receive a picture CHINO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY of the Chino Branch Relief Society, which is a small but active organization! In Arizona. Besides finding the Relief Society meetings beneficial to themselves, they report that through the 480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE organization they have been able to accomplish much good in their community. Among other things they are endeavoring to raise a chapel fund towards which they already have $60. Botse Stake The Relief Society of Glenn's Ferry Branch, in the Boise stake, was organized in October, 1921, with Mrs. Addie E. Blaser as president. At the time of the organization there was a membership of eleven. Six of whom were officers. Six months later the membership had grown to twenty-five active workers. The Relief Society in this little village has become a power for good and the officers are proud of their achievements and progress. In commemoration of the Relief Society Annual Day, a celebration was held to which all members of the branch were invited. An appropriate program was rendered, one feature of which was a poem composed for the occasion by the secretary of the branch, Elfrida T. Thompson. IN MEMORIAM It is in deep sorrow that the Boise Stake Relief Society announces the death in April of their beloved sister, Mrs. Ruby Young Rawlings, first counselor in the Relief Society presidency. Mrs. Rawlings was a beautiful and devoted young mother, and an active and capable Relief Society worker. Her sweet spirit and earnest work won for her a host of faithful friends who mourn her loss. She was an ardent and willing worker in her Church and in her community, and her achievements reflect credit on her name and on her family. Morgan Stake The Morgan Stake Relief Society held its annual conference in April. The stake presidency and members of the high council were special visitors. Various topics were assigned to the different wards and many valuable suggestions were made by the sisters presenting the topics. A part of the afternoon session was devoted to a testimonial in honor of the former stake officers. An appropriate speech was given by Counselor Hilma Rose who paid tribute to the devoted service of the retired officers. She also read a poem which was written for the occasion by one of the board members. The three members of the former presidency, Mrs. Maryette Waldron, Mrs. Nettie Durrant, and Mrs. Martha Heiner, were each presented with a signet ring, and each of the former board members were presented with a breast pin. A fitting response was given by Mrs. Margaret Waldron. The South Morgan Relief Society presented a play entitled, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 481 "An Old Fashioned Mother,' to a crowded house on April 4. It was thought by those present that the entertainment was one of the best ever given in the ward. St. George Stake A delightful party was given by the East St. George Ward Relief Society in the amusement hall of the stake tabernacle. An interesting program was carried out and various games were played for which prizes were given to victors. Some of the younger members present created much amusement by appearing in the costumes of their grandmothers. The crowning feature of the evening was reached, however, when some of the older members were taken without previous warning and adorned in the apparel of their granddaughters of the present generation. They were given gallant partners, improvised for the occasion, and after their interpretation of ball room dancing, they were greeted with an enthusiastic ovation. Garfield Stake _ We take pleasure in mentioning that the Garfield Relief Society, for a period of five months, has maintained a record of 100 per cent of teachers' visits in all of the wards. The stake has been emphasizing the work of the teachers and a wholesome rivalry in this work has been created among the wards, which is perhaps responsible for the splendid record made. An excellent spirit of cooperation exists in the stake. When the Widtsoe ward was striken with an epidemic of influenza, in the winter, the Relief Societies of the nearby wards collected and prepared food for the distressed community. Weber Stake: At the quarterly conference of the Weber stake, held in Ogden on June 25, 1922, the stake was divided. Part of the stake retained 'he name of Weber and the new division was given the name of Mt. Ogden stake. The Relief Society Board, together with the other stake officers, were released, and two new organizations were effected. The new officers of he Weber Stake Relief Society are: Agnes H. Stevens, president; Marian M. Browning, firs: counselor; Ellen H. Tanner, second counselor; Mary C. Stevens, secretary and treasurer; Ellen J. Stevens, chorister; Rosabel Scowcroft, organist. The Relief Society officers selected and sustained in the new Mt Ogden stake are: Almira C. Rich, president; Elizabeth Dee Thomas, first counselor; Annie Petty, second counselor; Christina G. Collins, secretary and treasurer; Dora H. Holther, assistant secretary; May L. Hobson, chorister; Mary M. Ure, organist. A Dollar Saved is a:'Dollar Earned By Lalene H. Hart A great deal has been said about the high cost of living, and many suggestions have been offered as a solution; but instead of adopting some new fad or plan, why not change the old plan, utilize what material is at hand and improve the methods of utilization? Just at this season it is quite fitting and essential that an inventory be taken of the family wardrobe, and perhaps some readjustments can be made in this department of the household whereby time, energy, money and worry can' be economized, Clothes Budget A definite amount, not to exceed one-fifth of the family income should be allowed in the household budget for clothing. It is a good plan to have a separate clothes budget. List each article of clothing each member of the family has, then the number each will require and also the probable cost. Are the requirements more than the allowance? If so, what can you do without and still keek up your s andard? What can you remodel or make at home? Study needs first, desires second. Study textiles and fabrics and dyes; learn how to make over, to color, to cut and sew and to properly care for your clothes. "Make friends of your clothes. They really have a personality. Give them care and thought and they will give you comfort when with them. They will add charm to your charms. Treat them with disrespect, neglect to care for them, and there is no knowing how they will make you look and feel." Well dressed people are not always the most expensively dressed; but clothes do have their place and function in the making of a man or woman. It is poor policy to spend mony for expensive foods, if the housewife must go without a proper and suitable dress and thereby give up her Church duties and social affairs. Neither is it proper for the children to have everything they want and mother nothing. Equally wrong is it to spend too much money for clothing and do without proper food and other necessities. Standards ' Two definite standards of taste can be applied to clothing and textiles; these are suitab'lity and simplicity. Since the homemaker is the principal purchasing agent, it is well to keep these A DOLLAR SAVED IS A DOLLAR EARNED ? 483 standards in mind. The life of a garment made depends on the fastness of color, pleasantness of texture, ability to shed soil, behavior with or without starch, shrinkage and style. Careful planning is necessary for intelligent buying. Buy the best articles and material for the particular needs. In purchasing material to be made, the buyer must keep in mind such questions as; Will it pull or fray easily? (Can it be stitched readily without gathering? Will it wash or can it be cleaned without injury to the weave or color? The style or pattern and trimming to be used must be considered. Some material does not lend itself easily to bias folds or plaiting and if it be wash material, time and energy in laundering must be taken into account. A good plan in making wash dresses and aprons of ginghams, kiddy cloth, etc., is to shrink the material first. This is best done by allowing it to stand in salt water (proportion of three-fouths cup salt to one gallon water) an hour or more. Wash in warm suds of soft water and ivory soap, rinse thoroughly, dry as straight as possible, dampen and iron perfectly even and smooth. A little extra time and energy used in the beginning will save a great deal i in the end, if clothes soon have to be remodeled. - Utility and Texture Warmth and not weight should enter in the selection of winter clothes. The human body is like a furnace, if well stocked and in good order, will give off heat. It should be dressed so as - to retain the heat and get some benefit from it. Wool with covering of some other material is best. The thousands of little cells store up the heat, the outer covering keeps it in, and the cold out. Wool is light and warm but must have proper care or it will become hard, stiff and shrunken. Many a child has been made to dislike wool clothing of every kind because he was forced to wear improperly cared for flannels and kept in a warm house. Imagine trying to persuade a fourteen or sixteen year old boy to sit in church under these conditions. One little test the housewife can make, to determine whether the material she is buying is wool, is to get a small sample and apply a match; the way it burns and the odor will soon convince her as to its quality. Samples of cotton and silk can be easily tested for qualities mentioned above. Perhaps not two articles of clothing require more skill in purchasing and receive less attention, than shoes and hats. Real foot comfort is rarely found, but it could and should be made universal, by scientific study and shoefitting. A salesman should have some knowledge of the anatomy of the foot in order to efficiently serve his customers. The buyer should have common sense and good judgment, that the shoes may give comfort, good looks and wear well. Many ills, especially of women, are caused by improper 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | fitting and wearing of shoes. We quote from a recently published article, rules well worth think'ng about: 1. Don't try to wear impractical shoes for practical service. 2. Don't use snap judgment in the selection of the place where you buy your shoes, Scientific footfiting is not usually practiced in shoe cafeterias. 3. Don't fail to bear in mind that your one pair of feet must serve you a lifetime. 4. Don't tell your shoe salesman what size you wear. Make it his business to fit your feet. 5. Don't foolishly allow 'foot style" to supersede common footsense when buying a pair of shoes. 6. Don't sacrifice your comfort by requiring a foot-fitter to do impossible things. Vanity and footfitting are far removed. 7. Don't buy price in buying shoes. It is only relative, while good, honestly made, comfortable_shoes are always an economy. ? It is economy to have more than one pair of every day or walking shoes at one time. The perspiration of the feet tends to rot the leather, hence the necessity of changing often for comfort and wear. Children's Clothing Some mothers hamper their children's devefopment and happiness by foolish dressing. Sometimes for their own pleasure or vanity they dress them in dainty lace-trimmed garments, and then warn them not to soil their clothes, which is impossible for the child to do if he plays. There are many styles of bloomers, petti-. Coats, play aprons and wash dresses, which are easily and quickly made, and ever so much more easily ironed, especially if one is fortunate in owning a machine. It is surely much more sensible for a child to have plenty of good, clean, plain (yet attractive and pretty) clothes than to be hampered with ruffles and frills which take so long to launder. Especially is this true for the school child. It is very poor taste and far more harmful to the child, both physically and mentally. The child is in school for the purpose of being properly developed and if his clothing intereferes with the free movements of his body. Or if he is conscious of what he wears, that development is not normal. Much of the cast off clothing of the grownups can be used in making children's clothing, especially skirts, coats, men's suits, shirts and ties. It is surprising the number of pretty combinations that the clever housewife can evolve by using the scissors, thread, and old clothes bag, All old materials should be thoroughly cleaned and pressed before using. No better or more economical way can be used than to shake them vigorously to remove all dust, then wash in warm suds of soft water and ivory soap, and press while damp. Water from the melted ice in the refrigerator is excellent for this purpose. A DOLLAR SAVED IS ADOLLAREARNED 483 The same points considered with smaller children's clothes ca_, be equally well applied to the college boy's or girl's wardrobe. Every average normal girl loves that which is beautiful, and in order for her to get the best and most out of college life she should have pretty, suitable clothes; then she can forget them and herself and devote her time to her work. She should be encouraged in her taste, but care must be taken not to let her worship clothes. First and most important are her needs at the particular place where she goes, and the amount to be expended. She should not take too much; it is better to add a little than 'be overburdened or have the wrong things. A few, well chosen, conservative clothes are more stylish and serviceable than a whole wardrobe of fluffy type. Plenty of underwear and stockings are necessary. Firm material made in a plain, simple way is best for service for every day, with one or two suits of finer materials for special occasions. Wool or mercerized stockings for everyday, and silk only occasionally, with low heel shoes of black or brown, are most sensible and economical. Slippers, the color of evening or afternoon gowns, or black, are always good. White shoes should not be worn with black or dark dresses. One-piece dresses are best for class room. Two dresses, dark wool material, with touches of embroidery and extra collar and cuffs, a skirt and a few middies or knit jackets, - one or two simple dresses for afternoonand evening (coat sweater), one good medium tailored hat, not too fussy, and perhaps a tam or sport hat, with a few little accessories may be sufficient for the girl who enters college for the first time. Care of Clothes No matter how becoming the clothes or how expensive the material from which they are made, if not properly cared for and pressed, they will soon become shabby and old and will not give the service they should. A few little details carefully practiced will prolong the life of a garment materially. As soon as clothes are removed from the body (especially street clothes) they should be shaken to remove dust, and hung up to air. The careless way of throwing clothes on the floor or on the pieces of furniture, or any place handy is not only a slovenly habit, but it shortens by one half the service of the garment. Spots and stains of any kind should be removed as soon as possible. Some of the ordinary and common ones can be removed 'easily by the housewife without injury to the fabric. Most fruit and punch stains can be removed by simply pouring hot or cold water through them. Ink stains if removed quickly will yield in luke-warm water; more obstinate ones can be removed by applying cream of tartar or diluted oxalic acid and then washing in clear water. A medicine dropper should 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be used when applying acid. Water spots can be removed by steam. The best way is to force the steam through a cloth so as not to wet the rest of the material. Always wash and rinse in the same temperature of water. When linens or silks are washed they should be dampened all over so they will not spot when ironed. Roll silks in simple thickness between dry, clean, white cloths. Woolen material or knitted garment should be spread on pad to dry. Press wool on wrong side when possible; if on right, press over cloth. Do not use too hot an iron, or press any kind of clothing too often, but keep in press by proper hanging and folding. By the wise selection for the many conservative, serviceable and yet artistic styles and fabrics now obtainable, and by the application of a few fundamental principles, many hard-earned dollars may be saved. Dehydrating Foods?fruits, vegetables, fish and meats, by A. Louise Andrea, giving practical directions for successful dehydration, both for homes and commercial establishments, with a complete line of recipes for cooking and serving dehydrated products of all kinds. This is the book of the hour, coming just at the time when under-production and high prices make it imperative to conserve every bushel of farm, orchard and garden produce. Dehydration is the superior method of food preservation. No cans, jars or tedious canning process necessary. Merely the water removed from food materials, leaving all flavorings and nourishment values intact. "The water taken out of the high cost of living." Perishable produce is preserved easily, economically and advantageously by dehydration, for homes, hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, schools, institutions, ships and dining cars. Pounds are reduced to ounces simply by removal of water content. Money, work, time and spoilage are saved; weight, bulk and storage space are reduced astonishingly. Dehydration furnishes the maximum of good living at the minimum expense. Well called, "The Modern Food Miracle." The Cornhill Company, 2a Park Street, Boston, U. S. A. The General Procession James H, Anderson Treland's civil war continued during July, with prevailing successes for the Free State government. In Russia, in July, three hundred thousand of the Red army engaged in military maneuvers. Preparatory to active service. During July, 350 passenger trains were annulled, owing to railway strikes in the United States. The Sacramento valley, California, experienced its highest heat record on July 4, the emperature being 125 degrees in the shade. Railway workers' strike on July 1 resulted in disturbances in ten States, and many murders of non-tinion men in the United States. Radio sets in operation by boys in the United States are estimated to have reached to the number of 2,300,000 inj July. Hailstorms in July covered various districts in the United States from the Atlantic to the Pacific, causing millions of dollars damage to crops. Germany drew closer in July to a probable crisis which may result in either dividing the nation or the overthrow of the present government. Streetcar men's strike in Chicago, Ills., Buffalo N. Y., and other cities caused great inconveniences and some damage to the general public in July. "Mormon" Church statistics, as given out by E. O. Watsos, secretary of the Federated Council of Churches, in July, place the number of "Mormon" Church members in the United States at 587,000.; Palestine was assigned to Great Britain under permanent mandate from the league of nations council on July 24, thus insuring Britain's promise of that land for a Jewish homeland. 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The July Hague conference failed on July 18, owing to the attitude of the Russian delegation. An economic international conference may be held in Washington in November. France made further threats in July to invade Germany unless reparation payments are made promptly. The situation seems to be approaching a renewal of the war along the Rhine. Catholic priests have petitioned Pope Pius XI for permission to marry, setting forth that purity of life is not promoted by a denial of the law of nature, as is now the case with the Catholic clergy. 'President Harding, in a Fourth of July address, declared that a free American had the right to quit employment when he chose, and that a "free American has a right to labor without any other leave." But striking labor unions take a very different view. Gov. James M. Cox, Democratic candidate for President in 1920, visited Pope Pius XI in Rome on July 30. The pontiff came into the chamber dressed entirely in white, the only color shown being his gold chain holding the pectoral cross, advanced, stretched out his arms, bade his kneeling visitor to arise, and led him into his private study. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING Chinese women in various parts of China held conventions in July, demanding equal suffrage there. In France, the movement for equal suffrage for women is finding little support among the masses of French women. Over 1,000 girls in the United States had tramped across the country from ocean to ocean this year up to July 31. This year's congressional elections in the United States will see twenty women candidates for election to Congress, and a fair prospect of some being successful. Mrs. Ben C. Hooper of Wisconsin was nominated in July to be Democratic party candidate for United States Senator receiving a big' popular vote. Miss Thelma Lenore Harrell, 17 years of age, of Savannah, - THE GENERAL PROCESSION 489 Georgia, passed a 'bar examination in July, and is the youngest lawyer in the United States. Miss Muriel McCormick granddaughter of John D. Rockefeller, has opened a millinery shop in Chicago, because she loves actual millinery work. Miss Alice M. Robertson of Oklahoma, now the only woman member of Congress, was nominated by her party in July, for reelection. Princess Yoland of Italy, who has been talked of as a possible prospective bride for the Prince of Wales, announced in July that she would not change her religion for any crown in Europe. Inez Phang, a Chinese miss, received the New York university prize in July for being the student most proficient in the politics and public affairs courses here. } Rev. Constance Mary Coltman, a woman minister in London, England, performed a marriage ceremony in July, said to be the first performed by a woman in Great Britain. Japan is being considerably disturbed by a delegation of American women who are there urging birth control as a means of preventing further increase of the Japanese population. Mrs. Irene Castle Tremaine, famous dancer and movie star, returned from Europe in July, with the announcement that prevailing fashions there for women were for longer skirts, uncovered ears, and beautiful des'gns in earrings. Beatrice Cohen, Hannah Davis, Anna Ginnsberg and Bertha Rogovin, New York girls, in July completed a trip on foot from New York to Oregon and back by the southern route, a distance of 15,000 miles. Mrs. Theresa Baldwin, St. Louis policewoman, says lack of parental supervision is the most prolific cause of poor morals among boys and girls in the United States, and in July issued a statement of painful facts in support of ther position. La Signora Linda who has been the attendant of the mother of Pope Pius XI for many years, is now intsalled in the Vatican in Rome as Mistress of the Wardrobe and orders the Pope's meals. She is the first woman to be allowed in the Vatican, and the Pope did it over the protest of many cardinals. My Conversion to Work for the Dead Nina B. McKean I walked in desolation; on the plain. Whence came or whither bent, I could not tell. But all around, my spirit clouds hung low; 'And why was I alive? My weary voice. Implored. I only knew a vague and helpless fear Oppressed my heart, for nothing I could see. An aching restlessness more sharp than pain Still drove me ever farther on my way. I felt, as mayhap did the Rich Young Man, The law indeed J'd kept e'en from my youth; But I never had great wealth to give, And yet condemned I felt myself to be. What talents had I in a napkin laid? My mind I searched to find where lay the fault, T knew that imperfections strewed my backward path, Yet nothing seemed to bring such sorrow unto me. When to my aching eyes a vision came! Before my path a mighty prison stood, While around my neck was hung a tiny key Which long had hung and soiled my clothes with rust. The great gate of the outer walls unlocked By hands which held a greater key than mine, For me to open, one by one, the smaller cells And thereby let the captive spirits free. For long, long years I'd worn the key While through the pleasant ways my feet had trod, My talents were not for such work, I thought, Until my soul was brought in sorrow low. And still in protest rebel will cried out, 'Am I a locksmith called this work to do? Why should I search through endless cells? To find the door my little key will fit? Quick came to me the age-old voice, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Through my soul A cry rang out as on my garments white, Where rust had been, a crimson stain now spread. Swift flew my feet to fit to doors my key. B: My restlessness, now past, my only fear The time allotted was too short to open all the doors; My woe forgotten, I was filled with peace. And joy of joys, when opened cells I saw From out there trooped, oh happy sight? The kindred spirits I had known before: And knew them as the line which gave me birth. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -. - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBINSON -. -. Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde Mrs. Lelene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, 'Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager - Jeannette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop' Ss 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX SEPTEMBER, 1922.. No. 9 PRIESTHOOD Priesthood is Divine authority conferred on men, by which they are authorized to speak and officiate in the name of the Lord for the salvation of souls. Priestcraft is the assumption of Divine authority, by which men speak and officiate in the name of the Lord to their own condemnation and cursing. There are many churches in the world today, and there always have been, but whenever the Lord has had a Church upon earth, the authority therein was invariably represented by the Holy Priesthood. It was so in ancient times, and also in the meridian of time, as well as in modern time. The Lord is unchangeable and eternal, so likewise is the Priesthood which, we are told in the revelations, "continueth in the Church of God in all generations and is without beginning of days or end of years." The Priesthood is bestowed upon man by the laying on of hands, and not otherwise. Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, received it from Melchizedek, who received it through the lineage of his fathers back to Adam, who received it of God. Moses received it under the hands of his father-in-law, Jethro, who received it through the lineage of his fathers back to Esaias, who received it under the hand of God. Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah and the prophets of Israel, wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost under the power of the Priesthood. The Lord declared in a revelation to 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Joseph, the Prophet, (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 84) that in the Priesthood, the power of Godliness is manifest and, "without the ordinances thereof and the authority of the Priesthood the power of Godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." Christ himself held the Priesthood for we are told by Paul, the apostle, that Jesus "was made an High Priest forever after the order of Melchizedek." Upon one occasion Jesus said to his apostles: "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you." The apostles ordained others, and thus was Divine authority introduced into the Church of Christ. In the restoration of the gospel, in latter times, the Lord has not deviated from his usual way in dealing with men. The Father and Son appeared to Joseph Smith, the boy, and spoke to him; but this glorious manifestation was in no sense an authorization for him to organize the Church of Christ. Such authority could only come by the laying on of hands. Subsequent to the visitation of the Father and Son, John, the Baptist, appeared, and laying his hands upon Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood. Still later, Peter, James and John, nner divine appointment, conferred upon them the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. And thus they were empowered to speak and officiate in the name of the Lord in organizing and building up the Church of the Redeemer. The great and glorious blessing that goes with Priesthood is set forth in pointed but unmistakable language in Section 84, Doctrine and Covenants, as follows: "For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; "They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham and the Church and kingdom, and the elect of God; "And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; "For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; "And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; "And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my fa her hath shall be given unto him; "And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. "Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved; "But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." EDITORIAL 493 The faithful sisters of the Church of Christ will participate fully in the blessings of the Priesthood, through their husbands. So that, finally, if the man receives all things within the gift of the Father, and is exalted to a throne of power to reign as a king and priest of the Most High, it must needs be that the woman, also, must be exalted to sit by his side and reign with him as a queen and priestess. Such is the destiny of the Saints of God, and therein is the principle of marriage strongly emphasized. Those who enter into fulness of exaltation and glory must obtain this ae through the Priesthood, and marriage in the House of od. THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE WORLD WILL MEET IN THE UNITED STATES IN 1925 The International Council of Women has decided to hold its next Quinquennial meeting in the United States. This decision was reached at the annual meeting of the International Council recently held at the Hague, and was immediately cabled to Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council of the United States. The Quinquennial will be held at Washington, D. C., some time in 1925. The International Council of Women is composed of the Twenty-eight National Councils of the World, including the United States. The president at the present time is Madam CoponniereChaix of Switzerland. The National Council of the United States has in its constituency thirty-nine national organizations composed of an aggregate membership of ten million organized women with Mrs. Philip N. Moore of St. Louis as National President. The Relief Society and the Young Ladies Mutual Imiprovement Association, of the L. D. S. Church, are both affiliated with the Council of the United States, and were among the charter members. The object of the National Council of Women and the International Council of women is to coordinate the various activities of women and bring about a better understanding and clearer relationship between the women of the world. Some of the ideals for which these organized women have stood are: universal suffrage, permanent world peace, and all phases of human welfare work and betterment. While the International Council was organized in the United States in 1886, this will be the first Quinquennial meeting ever held in this country. It will be a most notable occasion and will be attended by the great women leaders of every affiliated country. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) MIRACLES?PART II?THE MIRACLES OF THE SAVIOR Relation of Jesus to the Father in the Performance of Miracles Jesus of Nazareth was the Jehovah of ancient Israel. He and' the Father are coordinate members of the Godhead in matters pertaining to this earth; i. ?., Jesus has power to do anything that his Father would do, but this coordination does not exclude the recognition of leadership or presidency when both are present. The reverence of the Son for the Father, and the love of the Father for the Son make them as one, and their power is so held in unison that Jesus said, "I and the Father are one" (Doc. & Cov. 93:3; and "All power is given unto me, both in heaven and on earth," (Matt. 28:18.) Individual and Cooperative Miracles Some miracles are performed by the Father and some by the Son individually. In the miracle of testimony, in the case of Peter, the immediate source of power was the Father. It was one of the Father's individual miracles, for Jesus was in the flesh. (See Matt. 16:15, 16, 17.) Some miracles are events in which both the Father and the Son participate. Such a one was the first miracle of "Mormonism." (See Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, Chap. 2.) The Miracle of Resurrection. Concerning the miracle of the resurrection little is recorded as to who participated in that transcendental event; whether it was cooperative or individual is not stated, but that Jesus had the power to perform the miracle of immortal life seems quite evident from his declaration: ''Therefore doth the Father love me, because I - lay down my life?I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again." (See John 10:17, 18.) His immortal birth, at all events, was a voluntary act, as was his mortal birth. (See II Nephi 1:13.) His mortal birth at Bethlehem was announced by angels with the song of peace. (See GUIDE LESSONS 495 Luke 2:7-14.) At the sepulcher, angels who had evidently attended to some of the physical details of the great miracle testified as to the first self-victory over death on 'this earth. (See Matt. 28:5,6; Mark 16:5, 6; John 20:1-22.) ' Miracles and Power The miracles of Jesus were manifestations of power, but of the many performed we have no record of but one of self-preservation. (See Luke 4: 27-30.) In his miracles he demonstrated his power over nature by turning water into wine. (See John 2: 1-11; "Stilling the tempest" Luke 8:24; "Feeding the multitude," John 6:9; 9:13.) He showed his mastery over men by driving the profiteers out of the temple. (See Math. 21:12,13.) He proved his spiritual sovereignty by rebuking and casting out devils. (See Mark 5:1-17.) Sin was miraculously subject to his power of forgiveness. (See Matt. 9:2.) Loathsome, incurable diseases fled when he spoke. (See Luke 17:12-16.) Death gave up its victims at his command. (See John 11:32-44.) The Faith Factor! In case of personal healings, personal faith was an important factor. In some instances it was in the person healed, as in the case of the woman healed of a hemorrhage by touching the garment of the Master. (See Mark 5:25-34.) In the case of the hea!- ing of the servant of the Roman centurion the faith element was in someone other than the one healed. (See Matt. 8:5-13.) In the miracles operated upon nature, bad men, and evil spirits, Jesus operated with perfect effect without the elemen' cf faith other than his own. The Study of Miracles In studying a miracle, circumstances and place and purpose should be thought of, and to this, more than the verse references should be read. The parent student should scan the page for truth with a double intent, first, to know, and, second, to tell. Rehearsing the miracles of the Savior, with the right attitude, is a beautiful form of worshiping God in spirit and in truth. One who would be a good teacher of miracles should know the record from as many writers as have recorded them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, How is it possible for Jesus and his Father to be intrinsically one and yet not identically one? See John 17:11-22. 2. Of the many miracles performed by Jesus, which one alone was of a self-preservation nature? 496 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE o>) What is the miracle of testimony, and in which one was the Father the immediate source of power? Aa 4 faith as a factor in miracles, O what extent were the sins of man forgiven by Jesu he healed them of the palsy? 7 Y Jenene - "il een es performing miracles did the Savior show the wisdom of doing nothing for people th for themselves?. I Tell how to study miracles. LESSON II N ows N Work and Business. {Second Week in November) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in November) "ROCK OF AGES" F. A. Jones, in his book Famous Hymns and Their Authors. Suys: "The most popular hymn in the English language, according to the general consensus of opinion is 'Rock of Ages.'" This hvmn, justly admired by W. E. Gladstone, was translated into both Latin and Greek by him. Reverend Augustus Montague Toplady, author of Rock of Ages, was born at Farnham, Surrey, England, 1740. His father died in battle while the son, destined to distinction, was yet an infant. ? His mother is described by one writer as a woman of "'fine and forceful character.'"' The family lived in Ireland while Toplady was a youth, as a consequence of which he attended Trinity College, Dublin, being graduated from that institution in his young manhood. He wa sordained to the English ministry in 1762, and served therein. For about fourteen years. He later became minister of the Chapel of French Calvanists in London, but his constitution was feeble and his energies soon expended. He'died at thirty-eight in the year 1778. A letter written to the London Times, by Henry Wells, gives to the world this unique story relating to the composition to the words of the hymn. "Toplady," says Mr. Wells, "was one day GUIDE LESSONS _ 497 overtaken by a heavy thunderstorm in Burrington Coombe, on the edge of my property (Blagdon), a rocky glen running into the heart of the Mendip Range, and there, taking shelter between two massive pillars of our native limestone, he penned the hymn 'Rock of Ages cleft for me.'" This story has been questioned by some authorities; its truth we are not in a position to either affirm or deny, but we do know that within the year the New York Times has published in the pictorial pages of its Sunday issue, a picture of a huge rock of limestone with an immense rift in the center, surrounded by a large group of people from all over England who had made a pilgrimage to this spot because of its connection with the hymn "Rock of Ages;" consequently it matters very little whether it is authentic or not, the Christian world has evidently made up its mind to cling to this story as one of its precious traditions. The hymn has undergone rather exceptional revision. It has been revised, as to paragraph structure, and an unusual number of changes have been made in its diction. No one may be quite sure, when turning to the hymn, whether he will find it in four stanzas or three, but after examining ten hymnals, I have concluded that the three-stanza version has pretty generally taken the place of four stanza version. We submit both versions (the original form is four stanzas): Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the wat?rs and the blood, From the riven side that flowed, Be of sin the double cure? Cleanse me from its guilt and power. Not the labor of my hands Can fulfil thy laws demands; Could my zeal no respite know, a? Could my tears forever flow, ) All for sin could not atone;.. Thou must save, and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring; Simp'y to thy cross I cling; Naked, come to thee for dress; Helpless, look to thee for grace; Vile, I to the fountain fly; Wash me, Savior, or I die. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown, And behold. Thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me; Let me hide myself in thee. 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The three stanza version is as follows: Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the water and the blood, From thy wounded side_which flow'd, Be of sin the double cure, Save from wrath and make me pure. Could my tears forever flow, Could my zeal no languor know, These for sin could not atone; Thou must save, and thou alone: In my hand no price I bring, Simply to the cross I cling. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown And behold thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee. The second stanza of the three stanza version, is a combination of the second and third stanzas of the four stanza version. Whether the story told by Wells is the real story of the inspiration of this hymn or not, it is very plausible. It would be natural for one who had just escaped death because of the prot-ction of two large pillars of stone to have his mind drawn out to the fact that Jesus is the Rock of Ages who will give protection to the soul and save us through all the storms of adversity and distress from spiritual death. This is the great thought of the hymn, coupled with the other thought that, were it not for the atonement, wrought by the Savior, we could not be saved. There is no doubt that some of the doctrines of the Calvanistic creed are discernible in the hymn; but on the whole, it is acceptable to all persons of Christian belief. The compilers of hymns for the use of Latter-day Saints have included it in their compilations. From a literary s andpoint, it is a gem of the first order. Nothing in the hymn is finer than the lines comparing the Christ to a Rock of Ages. If any one doubts, the poetic quality of this hymn he needs only compare it with a translation made by a native of East India, who has been successful in taking every vestige of poetry out. The East Indian, given the task of translating the hymn, writes: "Very old stone split for my benefit, Let me absent myself under one of your fragments." No proper study of this hymn can ignore the diction. It is GUIDE LESSONS 499 simple throughout and it carries the wonderful picture in a most effective manner. Note that the first line of the first stanza and the last line of the closing stanza repeat the well nigh matchless lines, "Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee." A line el'minated, which carried the message of the hymn is, "Other refuge have I none." The hymn fulfils the prime requisites of a hymn poem; it gives us exaltation of thought, exaltation of feeling, that is, religous and reverential in its character, and it casts all this exaltation of thought and feeling in form at once beautiful and effective. F. A. Jones calls it a hymn of passiontide; Mr. Benson puts "Rock of Ages" first in his list of hymns; Julian says, "No other English hymn can be named which has laid so broad and firm a grasp upon the English speaking world." Dr. Robinson declares it to be the first hymn of the first rank. Breed, in his volume entitled, Hymns and Hymn Tunes, says it is one of the four first hymns of Anglican hymnology. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give as many reasons as you can call to mind why it is appropriate to compare Christ to a Rock of Ages. 2. What is the L. D. S. Belief in relation to the atonement? Is the author's idea in keeping with modern revelations when he asserts that there is no 'salvation for mankind save through the atonement of Christ? 3. Can the atonement save us apart from our own effort? Toplady puts some emphasis on this thought: We can not be saved without the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, but we cannot be saved with it, unless we do the works of the Christ. It is at just this point no doubt that the Calvanism of Toplady creeps in. 4, Weask for a second time in these lessons, what does the word Anglican mean? 5. What does Mr. Breed mean when he says that Rock of Ages is one of the four first of Anglican hymnology? 6. A few days ago a lady in New York, who is a descendant of the Pratt family, originally of Vermont, of the branch of the family who remained East, asked me which Pratt it was who made contributions to the L. D. S. Hymnal. Of what was she speaking when she asked this question? Of whom was she speaking when she asked this question? "I 500 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November) THE PROBLEM OF DISCIPLINE IN EARLY ADOLESCENCE Many parents find it difficult to discipline properly the youth between the ages from twelve to seventeen. The authoritative method which seemed to be quite effective'in the early stages of the child's life does not work so well when the boy or girl reaches the teens. Along with bashfulness and self-conscious feelings, develop two significant tendencies: (1) the desire to break away from the control of parents, and to think and act independently; (2) the tendency to form group affiliat'ons outside the home circle. These tendencies come into being in response to two. Fundamental demands, individual responsibility and cooperative power. These two tendencies are of sufficient importance to justify special consideration. The Independence of Youth; Notwithstanding his timidity, the individual is, at this stage of life, most assertive and independent. This is the time the boy asks for reasons. And if father's and mother's reasons are not to his liking, he is quite ready to substitute his own plans and methods. It is very difficult for some parents to see why the boy or girl of sixteen or seventeen should be so different from the child of eleven or twelve. Why should the adolscent boy question his father's judgment? Why should he not be as obedient now as he has always been? Surely the judgment and advice of father is as good now as it was when the child was younger. It is not that the parents have grown less intell: gent and less deserving of obedience. It is not that the child jhas become very much wiser or less in need of intelligent direction. It is simply a tendency of human nature which now asserts itself in a strong form. Youth is passing from childhood to adulthood, from a life of dependence to a life of independence and responsibility. He will soon be deprived of the parental direction and will have to think and act on his own responsibility. It is well that this desire for independence, this inclination to think for himself, to form his own judgmen s of right and wrong, should express itself, and at a time when the guide to conduct does not depend entirely upon the boy himself. Certain business, social and religious responsibilities should be assumed while the parent is near by to help in case a false step is taken. The boy should have some opportunity to earn money, and some freedom in spending it, before assuming the responsibility GUIDE LESSONS 501 of carrying his own weight in the world, and especially before he assumes the responsibility of supporting a family. It is better that he makes mistakes in small business deals and spends small amounts of money while father and mother are w: th him to prevent extreme westeful adventure, than to sustain heavy losses when he is thrown entirely on his own responsibilty. Every young person is sure to make some mistakes when he plunges into the world of business and social responsibility. These mistakes, however, can be reduced to a minimum if responsibilities are assumed gradually and under the eye of those who are most deeply concerned with his welfare. Parental Control Carried to Extreme Sensible direction of youth during this period requires that we guard against two extremes. On the one hand, no young person should be made to feel that he must do nothing on his own resronsibility. Father and mother must occasionally step into tre background and observe what their sons and daughters are willing and capable of doing without parental supervision. The best test of the influence of parents over their children is to find out what will be the latter's conduct when they are left to themselves. Independence Carried to Extreme On the other hand, the independence of youth must not be permitted to go too far. The child that does not learn to give proper value to the advice of older and more experienced people will be deprived of a principle which is the very essence of progress in our present civilization. There has never been a period in the world's history when men so depend upon the judgment of other people for yuidance as at the present time. We use the expert in all lines of human endeavor. Proper training of the young adolescent 's to teach him when to use his own judgment and when to use that of others. The Gang Spirit of Youth The instinct of gregariousness asserts itself very strongly in early adolescence. This is the time when the boy is most happy, when he is with his gang. This is the time, too, when the boy seems to be more 'nterested in what the gang and its leaders think, say, and do, than in the opinion of the members of his own family. Very frequently the otherwise good boy will be led by his crowd to do things that he would never think of doing when alone and on his own account. Boys who do not smoke may be led to smoke by the crowd. Drinking, gambling, and even stealing, have been indulged in by othcrwise good boys while under the influence of the crowd spirit. 502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Group Control What can be done by the home to protect the boy and the girl at this period from evil habits that develop through the influence of the group? It is certain that this is the time when parents of the community must cooperate in the direction of the lives of youth. Parents frequently feel themselves helpless in directing the conduct of their own boys, if the parents of the other boys of the gang are totally indifferent. Parents need to counsel together frequently and discuss the problems of youth. The Relief Society organizat'on as well as the parents' class afford opportunity for bringing about cooperation among parents. The best way to protect youth from immoral habits is to provide for them opportunities for wholesome enjoyment. The community that encourages dancing, baseball, skating, hiking, and all sorts of group activities under proper supervision is most likely to be protected from vices common to youth. QUESTIONS 1. Give some common examples showing (a) the independence of early adolescence, (b) the gang spirit. 2. How should a parent treat a boy who believes that he knows more about a subject than does the parent himself? 3. Should a boy of 15 years of age be permitted to spend his own money as he pleases? 4. What method should parents employ in directing the life of the child at the time when he seems wholly absorbed in the ideals and interest of his gang or group? 5. What reasons can you give for encouraging independent thought in early adolescence. 6. What is the moral value of wholesome sports among boys; such as baseball, football, etc.? What sort of recreation should be encouraged among the girls at this stage? 8. Why should courtship not be carried on at this period? 9, What are the benefits which result from parents participating in the games and amusements of young people? TEACHER'S TOPIC (November) GRATITUDE AND SERVICE The Pilgrim fathers gave thanks to God for the simplest means of existence. Theirs was the simple life and thanksgiving day was established as a day of prayer and thanksgiving to God, not as a day cof feasting and sporting. A return to more simple standards: of living and humble religious spirit will make more easy a realization of the Aposle James' description of religion: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this; To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction and keep himself unspotted from the world." Jame 1; Pearl 'i mi Me 4 ~: a Pann lor Leadership! 4 \ When your son stands in the presence of his coming opportunity can he answer honestly, "I am prepared?" Upon his answer depends largely his success and the success of his world. For its leadership, humanity is depending more and more upon college trained men and women? men and women of enlarged vision who have been trained to follow and direct intricate processes to desirable conclusions. Are your sons and daughters training for Leadership? THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY offers training in seven colleges and divisions, thirty-four departments of instruction, and more than eight hundred courses of study. Fall Quarter begins September 18. Winter Quarter begins December 11, Send for catalogue. The BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and_ discuss ~ business plans with them. Officers Tlecer J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine =) Guaranteed /L. D. S. Garments ? FOR LESS MONEY 150?Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave.............--.-$ 95 401 or 104?Light weight bleached cotton Ribbed........... 1.50 901?Medium weight unbleached Cotton..........5. 5 00 1.80 511?Heavy weight unbleached Cotton.......0. 00 1.95 MOOS! 2.00 g11?foxtra heavy unbleached Cotton.. 0... Sees ee ? oe 2.20 911?Extra heavy bleached Cotton 2.25 635?Medium weight part Wool... 3.00 845?Heavy weight all Wool...... 4.50 601?Lisle Garments............. 2.00 204?Mercerized Lisle..........+. 3.00 We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 811. Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c, Additional, Garments marked for 25? per pair. Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra. Be sure to state size. THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.) 1069 E. 21st South Salt Lake, Utah BURIAL CLOTHES Retief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 23 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Mention Relief Society Magasine Music Magnetizes the Home: The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay SURE TAN THE STATE wsrsavceece Mention Relief Society Magazine \ ? r as stig, SS alin: OCIA IOCI OTTO CIBC ONTIOT I OTIC {oe PAY LES " AA - a4 ANNOUNCEMENT The Autumn Quarter OF THE _ UNIVERSITY OF UTAH will commence Sept. 21 Registration Sept. 21-22-23 Instruction begins Sept. 25 The institution will continue to stress the importance of serious-mindedness on the part of the students. An enlarged faculty together with increased school facilities will be at the student's disposal. Opportunity to prepare for leadership in the professions as well as to receive a general cultural training is extended. The curriculum of the university is large and var'ed nearly a thousand courses being at the eption of the students. SCHOOLS OF THE UNIVERSITY School of Arts and Sciences School of Mines and EngineerSchool of Education in School of Medicine nance Extension Division CIOINIOC DIOL CIN IOI OCI OCI AIO IOC INEGI I '? ? yp NII I NII (9A ay 3S, La" Ni Po CAV. F= WON MII III @ Universityy Utah Salt Lake City School of Law School of Commerce and Fi- Start Where You Are If you are ever to succeed, you must do it by starting from where you are. Success is won a step at a time. Each day must show progress. Promotion comes because you have made yourself more valuable? have proved that you are able to handle large responsibilities. The record of our graduates proves that our training is practical, that it fits you for a desirable place in business, that it gives you knowledge and sharpens your ability in a manner that not only enables you to take advantage of opportunities but to create them. Join us next Monday. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City, Utah All the Year Day and Evening Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223 + P. O. BOX 17/3 * SALT LAKE CITY APage for Every Woman 'Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine TO AGENTS Please commence at once to take 'subscriptions for 1923. This will insure subscribers a copy of the January Number. A Spirit of Friendly ? Marks, Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the Peopleof Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An inatitution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 | 251-257 East First South Street. | Was. 912 Mention Religf Society Magasine Was. 912 S. M. TAYLOR, President Was. 912 'A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. PIERCES STRIPED CAN PORKY BEANS Buy |. PERCE S Them By LOD PBT The Case Gign cARNINES Try It ? No Obligation Use it for thirty days?then decide. We offer you the use of one of our Clark Jewel Lorain Gas Ranges for thirty days in your home. If, at the end of this period, you do not like it, we will take it back without expense to you. Utah Gas & Coke Company 351 So. Main; Was. 705 1 GEO. R. HORNING, Gen. Mer. Mention Relief Society Magazine aU dX HVYIN AFTIIAAANUI AZLIVGTHM FUT om) ~ BLUE PINE OLIVE: OIL. For Every L. D. S. Family You can now buy the purest FRENCH Olive Oil under the Blue Pine label. Blue Pine Olive Oil is heavy in butter-fat-content ?which makes it nourishing food. It is free from acid and you can drink the contents of a bottle at one time without distressing effects. For Church purposes the best should be used. You can rely on Blue Pine Olive Oil as the very best procurable. Use it freely for sickness, household purposes and Church ordinances. Be sure you get the genuine BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL?an extra cork with every bottle. 3 SIZES 4-8-16 oz. BOTTLES Scowcrott MADE IT! 